JODHPUR: Long pending demand of separate   Pradesh comprising 13 districts of Western Rajasthan has once again gained momentum. In a meeting organized by the Maru Pradesh Nirman   on Sunday, a decision was taken to begin a   in order to press the demand.

 The proposed state consists of Barmer, Bikaner, Churu, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jhunjhunu, Osiyan (a town in Jodhpur), Nagaur and Sikar districts.
 
  
  
 
 
 “From today, our movement has begun and soon it will be given a shape of public movement”, said the state president of the morcha Jaiveer Godara terming the demand quite justified for the development of the hitherto neglected Maru Pradesh.
 
 He said that every part of the state has tasted development but this desert zone of the state has been craving for the deserving development since independence.
 
 “It is because this region is spread on a very large area and there was neither there was access of the common man of the region to the administration not the administration has been able to reach to the people of this region as required”, he said.
 
 Adding to him General Secretary of the morcha   said that the development of this region was not possible unless there was a separate Maru Pradesh for the focused development aspect of the region.
 
 “Because of this vast stretch, neither the ministers have any idea of the actual problems and its issues nor the officers in Jaipur have any ground knowledge of this area, which ultimately leads to lagging this region behind in the race of development”, Rathore said.
 
 A delegation of the morcha had met with the prime minister and assurance was given for the consideration of their demand but there was no pursuance of this demand afterwards.
 
 “Finally seeing no hope, the morcha has decided to initiate a public movement comprising people from all the 13 districts and raise the issue on different platforms irrespective of the political loyalties,” said Rathore.
 
 Describing the structure of movement, Godara said that they will begin their movement with satyagrah for cleaning the Luni river, which is known as the "Maru Ganga".
 
 "If the government did not take concrete steps to clean the river, we would gherao Pali city to press for our demand," he said.
 
 This will be followed by a   through all the 82 assembly constituencies across 13 districts and a public referendum will be obtained over the issue. 
 
 
