NAGPUR: After   Anand Khobragade expressed inability to pay Rs10 lakh for expenditure towards the special panel citing “extreme financial crunch”, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday granted him time till May 30 to complete the formalities. This is the second time the builder has asked for an extension to pay the expenses of the panel constituted to suggest solutions to prevent fatal accidents due to high-tension (HT) lines. He was earlier granted time till April 30.

 Khobragade filed an application in this regard during the hearing of a suo motu PIL based on TOI reports on the deaths of 11-year-old twins Priyansh and Piyush Dhar, and five-year old Umesh Pande, due to electrocution from HT wires in June last year. The case was listed before a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and  , which had appointed Shreerang Bhandarkar as amicus curiae.
 
 On February 21, the HC had directed the builder to deposit Rs10 lakh towards compensation to both deceased children’s families. The judges, however, made it clear that this deposit would not affect his rights and contentions. “If such deposit is made, we grant him leave to move for regularization or release of attachment of his properties,” they had clarified.
 
 In his application, Khobragade informed that he had deposited Rs5 lakh each for the bereaved families through postdated cheques on March 20 and 30, which were encashed. However, he couldn’t deposit Rs10 lakh for the special committee due to financial constraints. He, however, submitted a postdated cheque of Rs10 lakh in the name of HC registrar, assuring that he would be able to make finances available by May 30. Earlier too he had made an appeal to defreeze his properties and bank accounts, stating that he was facing financial crunch. 
 
 Along with Khobragade, NMC, NIT, MSEDCL, and Spanco were also told to deposit Rs10 lakh each with the HC’s registry, as an interim measure, along with the compensation amount.
 
 In the last hearing, the HC relaxed stringent restrictions imposed on MSEDCL and Spanco from issuing power connections to residents lacking occupancy or completion certificates. The court also accepted pursis filed by the amicus curiae, who requested the court to ease the stringent conditions, which were causing several problems to common citizens.
 
 Earlier, the state government informed that it had granted a bungalow in Ravi Bhavan to the court-appointed panel to resolve the issues pertaining to HT lines. It would be available till June 15. Before adjourning the plea, the judges directed NMC, NIT, MSEDCL, and Spanco to depute their assistant engineers to assist the panel members.
 
 
