Nagpur: Various shades of moods, expectations, aspirations and positive mindset were on display in five plays staged during the 15th Maharashtra State Children’s Drama Competition, organized by the directorate of cultural affairs, at Scientific Society Hall on Thursday. ‘Ashya Eka Shaniwari’, directed by Sanjay Gaikwad, portrayed the innocent phase of childhood which often demands attention. The play tackled anxiety of children when it comes to studies and the resultant burden of expectations. Bullied by his friends and parents’ never-ending expectations, Jayant feels suffocated and decides to leave his home one Saturday noon.  After walking for miles, he gets tired and takes a nap. Jayant dreams of two jokers — Chunnu and Munnu — accompanied by many others. Chunnu and Munnu try to explain Jayant the positive side of education and motivates him to return home. Inspired by the dream, Jayant goes back and promises his parents to study hard.  ‘Rang’, staged by Kruti Theatre and Sports Academy Sanstha, illustrated the exploitation of colours and their misuse for expression. Colours that were once used for manifesting creativity and peace have now become symbols of some groups to showcase their affiliations to a particular ideology. As the artist goes away for a while, some people of differing views to achieve their goals, take away the flags he had painted in various colours. The protagonist artist requests such groups of people to stop use of colours and believe in maintaining peace and harmony. ‘Sakalchi Ghanta’, a morning conversation between two brothers, entertains the crowd with punch lines and perfect timing. The play revolves around Damu, Dinu and Jagu as they get ready for school inspection which leads to a series of misunderstandings. By the time the bell rings, the brothers reach school in dirty uniform and with unfinished homework. What happens to school inspection is left to imagination.  ‘Karawe Tase Bharave’, presented by Devraoji Kubde Sewa Pratishthan, conveyed the message of protecting the mother earth from pollution and calamities. In the play, Narad Muni, who is on a tour of earth, is shown held hostage by a group of kids. Narad Muni prays to the holy trinity to rescue him. But kids are in no mood to listen and want pollution-free earth in return, that left the student spectators in splits. Lord Brahma tries to convince them how everything depends on human beings as they are responsible for destruction of earth. The trinity advises the kids to promote tree plantation and use of public transport to reduce carbon content in the atmosphere. The play was directed by Makarand Morey.  ‘Yug, Tu Kuthe Ahes?’, presented by Swastik Sanskrutik Mandal, projected the envious and violent side of human being which worships fast money and acts in an inhuman way. Yug, a joyous child, is kidnapped by a servant who demands Rs one crore from his father in ransom. But Yug is killed brutally as he tries to escape. Strict punishment and child’s safety were the two major motives the play tried to bring forth. The play was directed by Rakshanda Nimbarte. (Reporting by Mrunalini Kohat)