CHANDIGARH: Four students from the Tricity, one of whom has secured all-India rank 4 in the JEE Main 2018, have made to the top 100 list of the coveted  , the result of which was declared on Monday evening.

  
 
 Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula student   scored 350 marks out of 360 and two wrong answers cost him the first rank. The Tricity topper said he drew inspiration from last year’s JEE (advanced) topper Sarvesh Mehtani, his close friend.
 
 Goyal, who studied 11 hours a day, made sure he got his 45-minute dose of entertainment before bedtime. “One should focus on his aim and prepare for the exam. I have been preparing for the exam for the last two years. As far as the paper was concerned, the topics of the questions were same as the previous year,” he said, adding that he is keen to pursue engineering degree in computer science at IIT Bombay.
 
 Another student, Tarush Goyal, a resident of Ludhiana, who attended a private coaching institute in Chandigarh, scored 335 out of 360 marks and has secured all-India rank 23. His parents are doctors with a government hospital in Ludhiana. “It feels surreal to get this rank. Throughout the year I studied more than 10 hours a day. I was taking coaching from a private institute in Chandigarh. I want to pursue computer science engineering from IIT Bombay and want to work at big firms like Apple and Google.”
 
 Vishav Rakesh Vig, a student of SGGS Collegiate Public School, Chandigarh, secured pan-India rank 45 by obtaining 329 marks out of 360. Being a footballer, he advised the future aspirants to engage in physical activities along with regular study. Hailing from a family that runs a pharmaceutical business, Vig says his future goal was to pursue higher education abroad after getting selected into one of the IITs for his undergraduate degree. “I believe there are good facilities abroad and that’s why I want to pursue higher education there,” says Vig.
 
 AIR 90 Kartikeya Rai, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, who is originally from Gujarat, unlike other toppers wants to pursue research. “I want to undertake research either in mathematics or physics after completing BTech either from IIT Bombay or IISc Bangalore,” he said.
 
 
