For chief minister  , 2018 could be a watershed year. He will set a record by being the first chief minister in 40 years to complete a full term of five years in office in Karnataka. He will also become the only finance minister in the state to present 13 budgets — the most by any finance minister. While those are no mean achievements, the bigger question is whether he will buck the trend and steer the   back to power at the assembly elections in April-May this year.

 Siddaramaiah cannot be accused of not trying. While   (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and dalits) was crucial for his populist programmes over the past 56 months, he has shown a healthy appetite for risk and gamble. He waded into the issue of   seeking a separate identity, promised to increase reservations to 70% from the current 50 % and has held his ground on the Mahadayi tussle with the  . He has also extended copious support in legal wrangles involving promotions for scheduled castes and tribe employees. Will these gambles pay off ?
 
 TOI takes a look at the major issues, which could either give the Congress the advantage or mar its prospects in the elections.
 
 
 
 
 The caste census has become a double-edged sword for Siddaramaiah. Leaked reports show the Lingayats form 9.8% — down from the top slot of 17% — and the Vokkaligas 8.16% — down from 12%.
 
 "The government is unlikely to release the findings as the two forward communities feel their numbers have been deliberately reduced against their actual strength," sources said. "Though Dalits top the list at 18%, they are no longer a sure-shot vote bank of the Congress." The assurance of scaling up reservation to 70% requires a constitutional amendment and that is near impossible in the next four months. "If the government manages to execute it, it could lose the goodwill of the forward communities," sources said.
 
 
 
 
 Political analysts say the issue has been festering for years. “The CM chose to use it to his advantage as he is aware that he is ‘persona non grata’ among the Lingayats and the Vokkaligas since he has declared support to Ahinda. When the issue was reopened, he chose to be proactive on it,” an analyst said.
 
 Congress sources claim the move to give the Lingayats, who constitute about 80% in the Lingayat-Veerashaiva conglomerate, a platform is unlikely to bring much gain to the party. Sources say the Congress garnered about 15% of the total Lingayayat votes in the previous election. It could rise by 5% because of the community’s ministers M B Patil, Vinay Kulkarni, Sharan Prakash Patil and Basavaraj Rayareddi speaking in one voice. “But it is clear the demand for an identity has fragmented the Lingayat votes. They are no longer a united force. The issue has also driven a wedge among the mutts,” a senior Congress leader said.
 
