NEW DELHI: As part of the Centre’s initiative for sustainable development of islands for tourism promotion, three projects each in Andamans and Lakshadweep are ready to be launched through public-private partnership (PPP), the Union home ministry said on Tuesday.

 
 Some key tourism projects include an eci-friendly resort on Andamans’   where one can indulge in adventure sports and turtle sighting, a premium resort in Long Island’s Lalaji Bay where game fishing will define the agenda as well as wellness activities on Avis Island.
 
 
 
 
 The home ministry, in consultation with other central departments and the administration of Andaman & Nicobar and  , gets projects on track for development of pre-identified islands with a focus on exploiting their tourism potential.
 
 The   on Tuesday held its third meeting under the chairmanship of home minister Rajnath Singh. 
 
 As many as 26 islands have been identified for development, of which plans are ready for nine while suitable projects shall be conceived for 17 others. An investment of Rs 650 crore is expected from private companies in tourism, MSME and IT sectors in these islands.
 
 Many projects involve developing these islands for tourism, something that will not only bring in foreign exchange but also create jobs for locals.
 For starters, the home ministry has relaxed the restricted area permit regime that were so far required by foreigners for visiting certain islands.
 
 
 As per details of the three projects accessed by TOI, resorts are planned in Long, Smith and Avis Islands. 
 
 While Long Island will have a premium resort built over 42 hectares at a cost of Rs 382 crore and have 22 rooms, 70 eco-friendly houses will come up over 25 hectares at a cost of Rs 69 crore and offer adventure sports as well as a forest trail/trekking experience.
 
 The proposed resort at Avis Islands will have 50 tents spread over 2.75 hectares and involve an investment of Rs 39 crore. Among other key infrastructure projects being undertaken to develop the islands are creation of jetties/berthing facilities, bridges on  , upgrade of Diglipur airport, construction of Minicoy airport and augmentation of helicopter services for islanders and tourists.
 
