The question still rings in mind: What happened on the intervening night of February 10 and 11, 1968, at the Mughalsarai Junction that led to a CBI inquiry and a judicial commission to be set up?

 Exactly 50 years ago on this day, the then president of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, was found dead on the tracks at the Mughalsarai Junction in Uttar Pradesh. Upadhyaya, a leading politician of the time, died during the intervening night of February 10 and 11, 1968. Though both the CBI and the Justice YV Chandrachud Commission concluded it was a murder committed for a petty theft onboard the train, but their findings did not convince everyone.   termed it a political murder though the commission’s verdict was never officially challenged.
 
 
 Upadhyaya was elected the president of Jana Sangh in December 1967. He had barely served for 43 days before his untimely death. A volunteer of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh from 1937 to 1951, he had held the post of Jana Sangh general secretary for 16 years — from 1951 to 1967.
 
 The 52-year-old leader had boarded the Sealdah Express from Lucknow on February 10 for Patna where he had to attend Jana Sangh’s working committee meeting the next day. But on the morning of February 11, Upadhyaya’s body was found in the railway marshalling yard of Mughalsarai Junction. He remained unidentified for several hours even as his lifeless body remained at the railway station, surrounded by onlookers. Finally, a local RSS member identified Upadhyaya and the news soon reached the saffron outfits.
 
 Upadhyaya’s remains were taken to then parliamentarian and former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s residence in Delhi. The cremation was held at Nigambodh ghat in Delhi and his ashes were immersed at Sangam in Allahabad.
 
 The unanimous view was that Upadhyaya was murdered but the police failed to catch the culprits. So the case was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investiga As per the CBI’s coffee table book published in 2010, the agency got a breakthrough five days after it started the probe. After two weeks, the y arrested two men, Ram and Bharat Lal, who reportonfessed to having pushed dhyaya out of the train since had caught them stealing his ag and had threatened to report them to the police. A special CBI court found Bharat Lal in possession of Upadhyaya’s bag. The court awarded four-year jail to the duo, but they were later acquitted of   for want of evidence.
 
 On public demand and a special representation from over 70 parliamentarians that did not find truth in the   the then central government appointed Justive YV Chandrachud Commission. The Commission’s report was published by the ministry of home affairs in 1970.
 
 Justice Chandrachud examined the evidence gathered by the CBI and questioned witnesses from the two sides – CBI and Jana Sangh. In its verdict, the one-man commission agreed with the CBI findings.
 
 The CBI had stated that Upadhyaya was pushed off the running train when he was standing near the door of his first class compartment. He hit a traction pole and died an instant death. Against the Jana Sangh’s claim that Upadhyaya had suffered injuries inside the compartment, the commission said the nature of injuries spoke otherwise. It also stated that the murder was accompanied by an immediate theft proving that both incidents were part of the same event. The commission said Upadhyaya did have many political rivals, but his death was a rash and extempore handiwork of mere thieves.
 
