LUCKNOW: There was a mad rush on city roads as revellers stepped out to celebrate the New Year on Monday. The arrangements made by the traffic police also went haywire, leading to traffic jams.

 Parks, places of interest, temples and entertainment hubs, along with hotels, witnessed rush right from noon to late night. Huge bottlenecks were witnessed in Mahanagar, Hazratganj and  . A bus broke down at Laxman Mela ground flyover, restricting the traffic movement from Chiraiyya Jheel and Baikunth Dham.
 
 The ongoing championship at the Badminton academy also had spectators from various parts of the city. As a ripple effect, the passage from Ambedkar Park on one side and   office crossing on the other had a huge inflow of traffic, catchin the traffic police unawares.
 
 Most of the roads leading to places of interest were also choked. Gandhi Setu, Samtamulak crossing, Fun Mall, Lohiya Path, Chiraiyya Jheel, Saharaganj Mall, Polytechnique crossing and Golf course crossing were congested.
 
 IG ( ) Jai Narain Singh was also reportedly stuck in the traffic for several hours. “The road from Golf Club crossing to Samtamulak was chock-ablock and no policemen was regulating the traffic. It took us two hours to get to Vivek Khand in Gomtinagar,” said Suchita Jha who had set out from her Cantonment residence.
 
 Another commuter, Vinay Shukla, who had come all the way from Barabanki was forced to cancel his party at a Gomtinagar club. Shukla said the passage from Polytechnique Crossing to Samtamulak was gridlocked. “It took me four hours to reach Samtamulak crossing which normally takes 25 minutes at the most,” said Shukla.
 
 Manoj Das, who had gone for an outing with his family from Gomtinagar, said, “Youngsters had parked their vehicles on the WPL 1090 Bridge, blocking the movement of traffic coming from LMRC crossing in Vishal Khand.” No policemen were to be seen managing traffic there either, he said.
 
 “Vehicular movement was more this time, primarily in the areas where parks were located. At noon, scores of people flocked to Ambedkar Park. Again, by evening everyone seemed to be in a hurry to get home,” said Rajesh Tewari Dy SP (Traffic).
 
 Ayushi Jain, a resident of Gomtinagar who had gone out with friends, said it was difficult for even pedestrians to walk from Dayal Paradise crossing to  . “There were vehicles parked on either side of the road. No arrangements had been made by the police or the administration to keep a check,” she said.
 
 ASP (Traffic) Ravi Shanker Nim said it wasn’t the people who posed a problem but the small kiosks and shops which had come up to cater to revellers that caused jams. “We had made arrangements. We responded to the jams by making diversions on important routes in order to make way for the traffic stuck on Lohiya Path,” he said.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said force from four police stations was rushed to manage the traffic.
 
  
 
