Anjhula Mya Bais, model, psychologist and social activist, who is now based in  , visited India recently to spend her birthday in her home state, Rajasthan. After attending an award function in Udaipur and meeting some “incredible people who have been doing humanitarian work in different fields”, she proceeded to Mount Abu. “I wanted to spend my birthday in   as that is the place I belong to. On your birthdays, it is always good to look back at your life and see how far have you come. I have been away from home for a long time, but there is a strong connect that I have with that place,” said Anjhula.

 
  
  
 After visiting Rajasthan, she took a small break in Delhi, the place where she’s studied. “There wasn’t enough time to catch up with friends I have in Delhi, but I love coming to this place. I have some fond memories of studying at  ,” she said, adding that next time she is here, she will definitely meet Meenakshi Gopinath, the then principal of LSR. “I graduated in 2004 and Meenakshi Gopinath was the principal of the college then. I have a lot to say about her. When I started modelling in college, she told me, ‘It is great that you are a model, but I respect Anjhula the psychology student, focus on that’. I would really want to meet Meenakshi Gopinath again. When I was preparing for the Miss India competition, I was among the 25 selected contestants and I knew that such an opportunity will not come again, but LSR is one of those few colleges that is very strict about attendance. In other colleges, you can find your way out if you are short of attendance, but nobody can help you in LSR. I have some friends who were national level swimmers, but they were held for an academic year because they were short of attendance, so I had to drop out of the Miss India competition. I pursued psychology and I practice as a psychologist now,” said Anjhula. LSR was always known for intelligent, sure-footed women, said Anjhula. “If you tell anyone in the world that you studied from LSR, the reaction is like, ‘Oh LSR!’ As I travel around the world, I realise how formative my LSR years were in instilling respect for women, feminism, strength and grace in me. I am very proud to be from LSR,” she said.
 
 After this short visit, Anjhula is planning to come to India again and be part of programmes to create awareness on mental health. “Talking about mental health is still a stigma everywhere. I think it was really courageous of   to talk about her depression and what she went through. People think that if you are wealthy and famous, you have an easy life, but that’s not so. Every field comes with its own pressures. Since I have been a model, I meet many other models who might not seek therapy, but they do talk about the pressure and problems they face. I would look forward to coming to India and doing something to create more awareness on mental health,” she said. 
  
  
 
