MUMBAI: In a move that is being viewed as a snub to  ,   has transferred control of the state-promoted e-solutions company   (MKCL) to the   (which Fadnavis holds). Till now, MKCL was allied to the higher and technical education department.

 Since 2015, the higher and technical education department, led by Tawde, did not appoint its share of three nominees to the MKCL board. In the past, the department’s minister, junior minister and secretary were part of the MKCL board.
 
 “Our company secretary sent eight reminders to the higher and technical education department regarding the appointment of nominees to the board, but we got no response,” said MKCL managing director Vivek Sawant. “Our interaction with the state government was meant to be through the board.”
 
 Asked if he shifted MKCL from the control of the higher education department because of a lack of cooperation, Fadnavis denied it. “We want to make use of it in other departments as well,” he said. The CM stepped in three months ago after he launched MKCL's MahaLabharthi portal, which matches citizens to state and central government welfare schemes for which they are eligible. Fadnavis, who launched the portal in October, wanted to promote the site among the departments.
 
 MKCL was launched in 2001 with 70% majority share from the state and state-backed universities. It runs the IT literacy course MSCIT. It has also framed online admission, recruitment, e-learning and e-governance programmes. It earlier handled online admissions to standard 11 and still manages online seat allocations for engineering colleges in the state.
 
 Tawde defended his department’s decision not to send nominees to the MKCL board, claiming that it faced corruption charges. “(MP) Kirit Somaiya had raised corruption charges against the company. So, we felt it was safer to not appoint nominees. There were allegations that it started as a government company, but money was siphoned off to stakeholders,” said Tawde.
 
 In 2015, CAG faulted eight government departments for awarding contracts to MKCL without inviting tenders. The same year, the state issued a directive for saying that the department should not assign work directly to MKCL without calling for tenders.
 
 Sawant pointed out that the CAG report did not fault MKCL. “It said the departments should have issued tenders. This does not mean we did anything wrong,” he said. “If there were allegations of corruption against us, then how come the government has not ordered an inquiry?”
 
 
