NEW DELHI: A Delhi Police head   died of a gunshot injury in his head at a hospital at Kingsway in   on Tuesday. The   was deployed to secure an inmate undergoing treatment. It is unclear as to how the cop was shot. Police are probing a suicide bid as well as an escape bid by the inmate. However, the inmate has not managed to flee.

 The incident happened around 3.30pm at Rajan Babu TB hospital, when head constable Rajender was deployed for the security of an   prisoner admitted since February 8. He was admitted at ward number 11 on the third floor for tuberculosis treatment. There were no other patients at the ward and the grille door to the ward was shut from inside. “We are probing into all possible angles,” said DCP (northwest),  .
 
 The ward attendant told cops that hospital staff had heard a gunshot and rushed to the ward, and found Rajender lying in a pool of blood with a service pistol lying beside him. The prisoner was sitting on the bed calling for help. The   had pierced through his temple.
 
 Doctors present at the ward tried to revive Rajender, after which he was taken to the trauma centre at Civil Lines where he died during treatment.
 
 Rajender was posted on duty between 8am and 8pm along with ASI Sitaram. In his statement, Sitaram said that around 3.15pm, the prisoner they were guarding had fallen asleep following which he handed over the service pistol to Rajender and went downstairs to have tea.
 
 An enquiry has been initiated to find out Sitaram’s role as well. The prisoner told the cops that the policeman was sitting a few metres away from him and was speaking to someone over the phone after which he had shot himself. However, cops have not ruled out the possibility of a scuffle, during which the prisoner might have fired at him. The pistol has been sent to a ballistic expert to study the trajectory of the bullet.
 
 The victim is a resident of a village near southwest Delhi’s Bindapur. He had spoken to his wife a few minutes before the incident.
 
  Family members say that he was worried about the expenses of his daughter’s upcoming wedding next month, but was not in a mental state to commit suicide.
 
 The body would be handed over to the family members after an autopsy on Wednesday. 
 
 A probe under section 174 CrPC has been initiated.
 
 
