COIMBATORE: Tension prevailed in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital ( ) campus and surrounding areas after a large number of people, including the relatives of a convict lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison who passed away on Sunday, gathered at the place and demanded release of all Muslims lodged in the prison for more than 10 years. The city police deployed as many as 200 personnel in the area to prevent any untoward incident.

 The deceased convict was identified as K  , 44. “He was sentenced to life for murdering  , a school teacher, during the Coimbatore riot in 1997. In November 2017, he was granted one month parole to get married. He was again given one day parole last Friday to visit his family at   near Saibaba Colony. He was lodged in the central jail on the same night. Rizwan fainted in the jail on Sunday and was immediately rushed to CMCH. But, doctors declared him brought dead. The body was sent to the mortuary for postmortem,” a police officer said.
 
 Soon, the dead man’s relatives gathered at the CMCH, saying that they will not allow the hospital authorities to conduct the postmortem unless some of their demands are met. Claiming that many Muslim convicts were not allowed parole and were not able to meet their family, the protesters demanded that the law minister should visit the hospital immediately to conduct talks with them. They also wanted the government to release those Muslim convicts, who have been spending their days behind the bars for more than 10 years. Though deputy commissioners P Perumal and   held talks with the protesters, they were adamant. As a result, the postmortem could not be conducted on Sunday.
 
 On Monday, after some Muslim outfits conducted talks with them, the bereaved family gave their permission to conduct the postmortem. Meanwhile, leaders of some Muslim outfits requested the police to arrange a meeting to convey their demands to the district administration officials. Collector  , police commissioner   and other senior police officers met them at the district collectorate.
 
 After the meeting, the family agreed to receive the body. It was handed over to them in the evening and was buried later.
 
 
