GAYA: Student unrest prevailed in   on Saturday following the murder of a Class XII student of Nazareth Academy, a premier Christian missionary school in the town.

 
 Dozens of hooligans living in Nabil Khan’s neighbourhood gatecrashed into his house in the   locality of the town on Wednesday evening and assaulted him with lethal weapons. He was referred to Patna for treatment, but succumbed to his injuries on Friday.
 
 The assault was attributed to certain minor altercation between the boy and his neighbours. Details could not be known immediately.
 
 In protest, an irate mob on Saturday blocked traffic at several points, including the NH- 83 and MG College intersection. The protesters, mostly students, alleged police did not lodge a case for three days, allowing enough time to the culprits to manage their escape.
 
 Apparently fearing that the protests could take an ugly and violent turn, the district administration made massive police deployment in the White House Compound locality and adjoining areas. Riot control forces in full protective gear were also moved to these areas.
 
 DSP (city)   said the FIR was delayed due to non- availability of the victim and his family, who were in Patna for treatment. “A case under Section 302 of the IPC has been instituted and raids are on to nab the culprits,” he said and added the killers would be brought to justice.
 
 The protesters demanded early chargesheet and speedy trial as was done in the case of Aditya Sachdeva who was killed by JD(U) lawmaker  's son Rocky Yadav in 2016. Rocky is now serving life imprisonment for the murder. Sachdeva was also a Class XII student of the same school.
 
 The scene at the boy's house was heart rending. The teenager’s CBSE Class XII results were announced around the same time on Saturday afternoon when his body was being taken to the Karimganj burial ground.
 
 Nabil was the youngest among four siblings. While his two sisters are students of Aligarh Muslim University, his brother passed Class XII examinations last year. Their father Wasi Ahmed Khan is a businessman who deals in almirahs and gates made of iron an steel. Nabil’s great grandfather Cap Shah Jehan was a freedom fighter and two-time MLA.
 
 
