Director Neeraj Pandey’s thriller ' ', which is set against the backdrop of the Indian army, is set to hit the screens tomorrow. Talking about the inspiration behind the film, the filmmaker says, “The seeds of 'Aiyaary' were sown during the shoot of 'Baby' (2015), when we were interacting with personnel from the   and intelligence services. The title, 'Aiyaary', has been on my mind for a long time. It’s from the fantasy novel, 'Chandrakanta', written by Devaki Nandan Khatri. The word means ultimate trickery. The title is apt for the story in which a Colonel ( ) plays mentor to a Major ( ) in the Indian Army. Sidharth looks up to Manoj’s character, but the story reaches a turning point when they have conflicting views about a situation.”

 Sidharth believes that the film is realistic and relevant in today’s times. He shares, “Neeraj Pandey’s strength lies in his writing. He talks about subjects that make a difference to our lives and raises questions that are relevant to our times. I am a Delhi boy who grew up in a city and the problems we face in cities are mostly first world! This film gave me an opportunity to see the ground reality for myself and what it takes to protect a country. I have new-found respect for the Armed Forces. It made me less complacent and value my freedom more.”
 
 'Aiyaary' boasts of a formidable team of actors, five of who are National Awards winners — Naseeruddin Shah, Manoj Bajpayee, Anupam Kher, Adil Hussain and Vikram Gokhale. Interestingly, Neeraj has also won a National Award for his directorial debut, 'A Wednesday'. Having directed heist and espionage thrillers like 'Special 26', 'Baby' and 'Naam Shabana', the filmmaker is known for ably steering the narrative in this genre. Talking about this, Manoj elaborates, “Neeraj made 'Baby' and wrote 'Naam Shabana'. His research is extensive. But 'Aiyaary' talks about the functioning of the Army in the big city. It’s a different film as it doesn’t delve into the border conflict and goes beyond covert operations and army intelligence.”
 
 Meanwhile, Naseeruddin Shah will be seen reviving his common man avatar in 'Aiyaary' from 'A Wednesday'. Apart from being a three-time National Award winner, he is also a Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri awardee. Anupam Kher has time and again showcased his versatility by portraying iconic roles in almost every genre. 'Aiyaary' sees him collaborating with Neeraj for the eighth time. Adil Hussain, who has won the National Award for his performances in 'Mukti Bhawan' and 'Maj Rati Keteki' and veteran Marathi actor Vikram Gokhale lend gravitas to the film. The movie also stars former Miss Indias Rakul Preet Singh and Pooja Chopra along with Kumud Mishra.
 
 
 
 
