BHOPAL: After some progress in initial days with Bollywood celebs like Shatrughan Sinha and other biggies evincing interest in a proposed state-of-the-art   in  , not much came of the ambitious project.

 In an exclusive interview with TOI in July last year, Manoj Shrivastava, principal secretary, culture department, had said plans for the film city “were in motion” and a 400-acre piece of land had been identified on the city outskirts.
 
 But sources say the project, deliberations for which began back in 2010, has effectively come to a standstill as investors are just not willing to bet big on the project.
 
 “The government had drawn a plan for the project – discussions were also held with prominent industry names. But we needed a private investor to take forward the plan, which never truly happened,” said a senior official in the culture department.
 
 Back in 2011, a plot of land at Bangrasia, less than 30 km from the state capital, was identified as the site for the proposed film city complex. Discussions were also held with industry names such as Bollywood actor and BJP MP Shatrughan Sinha and film director Prakash Jha. But subsequently nothing came of it.
 
 “Not just Bhopal, but the entire state has been a key attraction for film makers. We have movies like ‘Peepli Live’, ‘Aarakshan’, ‘Raajneeti’, all significant Bollywood projects in the last decade that have been shot in MP. Bollywood people want to come here, but talks over a film city with industry big names did not yield positive outcome,” he said. For last three to four years, the state has received no proposal from any stakeholder, effectively ending the pursuit for the ambitious project.
 
 The project was planned to be brought up along the lines of existing film cities in Hyderabad (Ramoji), Mumbai and Bengaluru; one that offered a tourism value as well. But officials believe with shelving of the project, the state does not stand to lose much.
 
 “Madhya Pradesh has had a long association with the film industry. When a producer from Mumbai comes to the state identifying it as a viable location for film shoots, it bolsters the tourism value,” he said. “The film industry would rather get the best out of locations in MP than look to invest its time and money in a film city. At the end of the day, it benefits all,” he said.
 
  Bhopal district collector   said he has not received any notification regarding the status of the film city plan.
 
 “While such a project would only be good for Bhopal, I have not been issued any notice regarding the plan,” Khade said.
 
 In the recent past, Bhopal and other locations in MP have been a crucial part of movie makers like Prakash Jha’s circuit. Movies such as ‘Satyagraha’ (2013), ‘Jai Gangaajal’ (2016), ‘Raajneeti’ (2010) and ‘Aarakshan’ (2011) are some that have been shot in Bhopal and have given Jha a reputation as a director making films on political themes. These movies have drawn the likes of Amitabh Bachchan, Priyanka Chopra, Ajay Devgn, Saif Ali Khan and Deepika Padukone to the City of Lakes.
 
 Apart from Jha’s works, Anusha Rizvi’s satirical comedy ‘Peepli Live’ was filmed in Bhadwai village near Bhopal among other locations such as Indore, Tikamgarh and Khurai.
 
 
