On Sunday morning, over 100 bikers across the city descended on the streets of Mumbai to participate in a campaign on road safety. The rally, which began at 8.30 am kick-started at Lokhandwala Back Road, Andheri and moved on to Carter Road, Bandra. The agenda of the rally was to make helmets compulsory for children and raise a voice against unsafe roads. Five-year-old Angel Kunadh and eight-year-old Gaurav Pradhan, who had their fathers accompanying them, sported helmets as they spoke about their plans to get their friends to do the same to be safe. The event also included a signature campaign, where people pledged their support for ride safely.

 
  
 Talking about the initiative, Siddhant Mohite, the organiser of the event, said, “We want to highlight the issue of child safety on two-wheelers. Helmets should be made compulsory for them as they're as important as raincoats during monsoon and caps during summers. The other reason to conduct the rally was to highlight the poor condition of roads in the city. We deserve a lot more than what we are currently getting. We are asked to wear helmets, but what about the deaths that have gone up because of the poor quality of roads? Better roads can help avert such crises.” Aditi Bairolu, 22, is part of the group creating awareness on issues of road safety for children and bad roads. She says, “The area where I reside has six schools. Every morning, I can see that the kids being dropped to school by their parents do not wear helmets. If we say children are our future, then we need to ensure their safety as well. Getting biker clubs to abide by traffic rules is just a start. As an extension to this activity, we plan to involve citizens, who will share pictures of the problems they face and try to resolve the issue.”
 
 At Carter Road, several volunteers and citizens took part in the activity and held placards to spread the safety mantra. Meenal Bhushan, a research analyst, participated in the ride. “Two-wheeler is the most preferred mode for commute. And it’s dangerous for kids to ride them without helmets,” she said, adding, “Helmet is the most basic gear that we need to imbibe as part of road safety etiquette. Besides, the probability of meeting with an accident is high due to the condition of the roads and mismanagement of traffic rules.” Rider Parth Ahuja said, “Some of the issues that we face are uneven tiling, no proper reflectors on dividers and speed breakers. It’s difficult to spot that in the nights, so we ensure that we are always in gear – with jackets, leg guards and full-face helmets. Most of the time people have lost their lives due to only one reason — and that’s bad roads.”
 
