NEW DELHI/ISLAMABAD: As Pakistan here claimed that there had been as many as 26 instances of harassment and intimidation of its diplomats since March 7,   Thursday called back its high commissioner   for discussions on the issue.

 While India said the envoy going back to his country for consultations on an issued he considered important should be seen as a routine and internal matter of the neighbouring country, Pakistan diplomats said they didn’t want to venture a guess on when Mahmood would return.
 
 In a series of diplomatic communications, Pakistan has accused India of intimidating the children of its diplomats and of even stopping supply of gas cylinders to Pakistan High Commission. Late on Thursday evening, Pakistan claimed that a senior diplomat and his two minor daughters, while on their way to  , had their car intercepted by 4 unidentified bikers who also flashed torchlight at them.
 
 While official sources here said all such allegations will be investigated, they added that Indian diplomats were facing a far worse situation in Islamabad. At a press briefing in Islamabad, Foreign Office spokesperson   said the federal government had directed Pakistani high commissioner to India Sohail Mahmood to return to Islamabad for a consultation over the recent incidents of harassment of the embassy’s staff.
 
 “India has failed to take adequate steps to ensure the safety of Pakistani diplomats and their families in India, despite complaints and protests lodged with the Indian deputy high commissioner and India’s External Affairs Ministry,” he said. India, however, said it did not want to get into a public spat with Pakistan over issues - concerning safety and security of its diplomats - which it had raised diplomatically with them.
 
 "As you know, our High Commission is facing a litany of issues which have not been resolved for several months," said MEA spokesperson  .
 
 "We raise these issues in good faith through diplomatic channels and not through the media. We have asked for immediate resolution of these issues faced by our high commission in Islamabad, so that the safety and security of our diplomatic mission and its diplomatic and consular officials is assured. We would like our mission to function normally, without any obstruction or harassment, in keeping with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations 1961," he added.
 
 According to Pakistan diplomats, India authorities are trying to intimidate them to force Pakistan’s hand mainly over disputes related to the construction of an Indian residential complex in Islamabad and also Pakistan’s unprecedented decision to block membership of Islamabad Club for Indian diplomats.
 
 The Pakistan spokesperson said that photographs identifying individuals involved in harassment had been submitted to the Indian External Affairs Ministry. “No action has been taken yet,” he said. Videos of such incidents have been aired on Pakistani TV stations for the past few days.
 
 Pakistan had summoned on Tuesday the Indian Deputy High Commissioner J P Singh to lodge a protest. Listing a series of incidents that Pakistan claimed had started last week on Wednesday when a senior diplomat’s vehicle was stopped and damaged, the FO spokesperson said that the harassment was not confined to a single isolated event, but continued unabated, especially targeting the children of embassy’s officers and staff.
 
 Separately, Foreign Minister   said on Thursday that Islamabad was not expecting improvement in relations with New Delhi “due to the constant ceasefire violations by it”.
 
 
