KOLKATA: A   from the city emerged the second runner-up in this year’s  , held at  . The crown went to   while the first runner-up was Ricky Devine-White from New Zealand.

 
 Samarpan Maiti, a 29-yearold student of bio-chemistry who is waiting for his PhD degree on brain cancer from a reputable central institute with his thesis, surprised the jury with his performance at the contest. Maiti made it to the final round after winning the Mr Gay World India 2018, which was held in Mumbai in January.
 
 
  
  
 
 The interview round turned out to be the toughest for Maiti. He was asked how he could champion the cause of the LGBTQ+ community in spite of being “shy” in nature. “I am not outspoken, but I can protest when it is necessary to do so. Moreover, I am patient, which is a quality of a leader, so I can lead the LGBTQ+ community in India where they are still stigmatised,” was Maiti’s reply.
 
 He was also asked how he could change people’s perception about HIV/AIDS as often it is shown that LGBTQ+ community is responsible for spreading the disease. “My answer was simple: I will change campaign. HIV sperads from mother to baby as well. So don’t blame the LGBTQ+ community alone.” He also impressed the jury with his social work.
 
 “We were taken to a reserve forest and we had to answer questions based on information provided by our guides. Ten of the written questions were based on day-long activities while rest 10 were based on LGBTQ+ awareness. We were even taken to a forest for social work. It was damaged by wildfire and I suggested ways to conserve it.”
 
 To take part in the contest was not that easy for the village boy of Panskura. Moreover, though his colleagues and staffers supported him, he was unwilling to divulge the name of his research institute. “My mother Sushama Maiti, a primary schoolteacher, encouraged me knowing I was competing for Mr Gay World and wanted me to be the winner.” He also thanked Sushant Divgikar for mentoring him for the event.
 
 Gavin Prins, a publicist and judge in the competition, said: “There were 18 Mr Gays from around the world who participated in the contest and Maiti did really well. India can be very proud of him. Hope Indian people support him in his work to create awareness.”
 
 
