NAGPUR: Innovations from a common man could many times surpass that of a scientist. That is the power of innovation which arises from a necessity.

 A few years ago, a huge storm with heavy rain in Nashik destroyed grape crops of a farmer leaving no scope for revival. But when the farmer noticed two saplings surviving the storm, he picked them up and multiplied these further to develop a resistant variety.
 
 The variety proved to be extremely successful and R2iW helped the farmer patent it. In another example, a person from Navi Mumbai has developed a whistle for a cooker with mechanical intervention that stops whistling after the preset number of whistles, preventing the cooker from bursting due to high pressure.
 
 Three enterprising minds, two from city and one from Mumbai, have come together to bring such grassroots innovators on one platform, create an opportunity for them to convert their innovations into a product and earn money from these products. They are calling this platform ‘Ready2innovate Worldwide’ or (R2iW).
 
 R2iW will be launched from the city by last week of January from the   in Ram Nagar by chief minister   and Union transport minister  .
 
 Yogita Kasture, one of the co-founders of R2iW, a section 25 company, told TOI that the forum will act like a platform for transfer of technology. It will be a bridge between national and international buyers of the technology.
 
 Kasture has worked as the former CEO of the Centre for Innovation at Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (CIVN-VNIT). She has experience in guiding and promoting innovations and inventions. Kasture says R2iW will have multi-disciplinary researchers, beginning from farmers to corporate innovators.
 
 Dnyaneshwar Kamble, another co-founder of R2iW from Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) in Mumbai, said   (VIA) has already partnered with R2iW and CII has also offered its support to the company.
 
 “To begin with, we are starting with 22 innovations from Nagpur, Vidarbha, Mumbai, Nashik, Kolhapur etc. Later, if this innovation gallery works well and yields the desired results, we will start branches of the company in other cities in country,” he said.
 
 The third co-founder of the company Praphull Thakkar, an entrepreneur and innovator in water technology and construction from the city, said R2iW is an independent platform to protect grassroots and social innovations by patenting them and then trying to convert them into products that are saleable.
 
 “The innovators in our platform will also seek problems from industry and develop solutions for them. It will be place for people to get into innovation mode,” said Thakkar.
 
 Kamble said currently, there is no policy for innovation. Since there is no incentivization of innovation, very few people working in the industry or academia think of innovation. Hence, R2iW will be a platform with incentives for innovation.
 
 
