NEW DELHI: Both Houses of Parliament remained paralysed for the 16th straight day on Tuesday due to protests by various parties with the   unable to even bid farewell to its retiring members while the Lok Sabha could not take up notices on no-confidence motion moved against the   government. 

  In the Lower House, members of some opposition parties, including  , YSRC, CPM and former NDA ally TDP, adopted a novel way to convey they had the requisite number to move the no-confidence motion, holding numbered placards, each with a number - from 1 to 80 - along with the words 'For No-confidence.' At least 50 members need to support a no-confidence notice for the House to accept it and start a debate. 
 
  Lok Sabha Congress leader,  , said the opposition had the numbers for the no-confidence motions to be allowed and were keen for discussion. But   members continued with the protests and trooped into the well shouting slogans on their demand for constitution of the Cauvery River Management Board. Speaker Sumitra Mahajan insisted the no-confidence motion could not be taken up unless the House is in order as she urged the protesting members to return to their seats. 
 
  Parliamentary affairs minister Ananth Kumar asserted the government is open to a discussion on the no-confidence motion and took a jibe at Congress for joining the rush for no-confidence motions after YSRC and TDP. "Kharge ji should introspect. Congress has no primacy left, it has now become a a marginal party," Kumar said. 
 
  As the AIADMK members remained unrelenting, the Speaker adjourned the House for the day. 
 
  Protests in the well of the Rajya Sabha by AIADMK members prompted Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to say that would set a 'bad precedent' as the House would not be able to hear the experiences of the 40 retiring members. After laying of the listed papers, Naidu said the House should bid farewell to retiring MPs. 
 
  However, AIADMK members continued to raise slogans from the Well and were soon joined by TDP. 
 
  As AIADMK continued to protest, Naidu warned there were two options, either to name the protesting members and take action against them or to, adjourn the House and deprive the retiring members from sharing their experiences. 
 
 
