CHANDIGARH: The electronic way (E-way) bill under Goods and Service Tax ( ) will be introduced in Chandigarh from Friday. The   is an electronically generated document required to move goods from one place to the other, either inter-state or intra-state and valued at more than Rs 50,000.

 E-way bill will be required for movement of goods between business to business, business to consumer and business to transporter. Those buying goods exceeding value of Rs 50,000 will be required to procure an e-way bill from the vendor.
 
 Explaining the concept of the E-way bill, GST expert Keshav Garg said: “For instance, you buy a decoration piece for your house worth Rs 60,000. You will be required to procure an E-way bill from the shopkeeper to move the item from the shop to your residence,” said Garg, adding that used personal articles are not covered. Giving an example, Garg said if one is carrying a laptop valued at more than Rs 50,000, no e-way bill is required but it is required if one buys a new one.
 
 There will be no need for goods transported by a non-motorised conveyance; goods transported from the port, airport, air cargo, complex and land customs station to an inland container depot to have an E-way bill.
 
 “If you move your goods within Chandigarh on non-motorized conveyance, then there is no need for generating E-way bills. This is applicable to those transactions which started and ended their movement within Chandigarh,” said  , a GST expert. Jagga said those found moving goods without E-way bill will be liable to pay a penalty of Rs 10,000. The vehicle on which goods are transported without E-way bill can be seized and released only on payment of appropriate tax and penalty.
 
 Different traders’ bodies have circulated instructions among their members.   (CBM) president Anil Vohra said they have circulated instructions among traders to make them aware about the concept of E-way bill.
 
 Talking to TOI, Rankaran Gupta, president, Sector 26 Grain Market, said they have made necessary arrangements to issue E-way bill to customers.
 
 
