CHANDIGARH: Several internal   in   village are lying in a desperate need of repair and recarpeting. The roads full of potholes and thick layer of gravel and stones have made plying difficult for both pedestrians and two-wheelers. 

 Bylanes of the village, like many of its arterial roads, are still dealing with weather damage and have been left to wilt, with no care since the past several years. 
 
 The current condition of the roads have also severely affected the lives of numerous children and senior citizens residing in the village who have complained about not being able to walk on the roads with ease, thus being susceptible to the danger of falling down and getting hurt. 
 
 “I don’t know will any of such problems ever get solved, and if yes then when. We are suffering a lot due to the poor condition of the roads, which are covered in potholes and stones. Our lives are hellish here,” said  , a homemaker living in the village. 
 
 Apart from the damaged roads right outside the homes in the village lanes, several damaged roads were also found along the turns and the corners of bylanes, where numerous potholes were found to be choked with sewer water and flies buzzing around, creating a health hazard for those living around. 
 
 While many of the potholes were small in size, many of them were found to be larger and deeper than others, being greatly hazardous to two-wheelers being used on the roads. 
 
 “The roads here have been broken for as long as I can remember. They have hardly ever been recarpeted or repaired in my memory. Apart from these internal roads, the bigger roads outside which are inundated with traffic at all times are yet to be repaired,” said  , a Kishangarh resident. 
 
 According to numerous village residents, almost an year ago, some of the choicest roads from the village premises were repaired in an effort to fill out the larger potholes, which had affected the plying cars on the road. However, the repair work turned out to be insufficient and monsoons badly affected the roads again.
 
 
