CHENNAI: State universities in Tamil Nadu have been given a green signal by the governor-chancellor to begin recruitment for sanctioned teaching posts that have not been filled yet. In all probability, the universities will start the recruitment process from April.

 The state government had placed an embargo on any kind of recruitment until the redeployment of excess staff in   was completed. However, the redeployment is now in its final stages and will be completed by March-end, said officials.
 
  Banwarilal Purohit gave the nod on Saturday at a meeting with vice-chancellors.
 
 The decision has come as a major relief to the universities as they have 30%-45% vacancies. “The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation takes into account the number of teachers we have in proportion to the number of students. If the student-teacher ratio is high, our score takes a beating. So, we need to fill vacancies,” said a  , who did not wish to be identified. 
 
 At the meeting, the governor had also directed VCs to improve their NAAC score, as only one state university Alagappa University has an A+ score.
 
 In a government order on April 12 last year, the state government had noted that there were 1,031 excess teaching staff and 4,772 excess non-teaching staff at Annamalai University. Of these around 3,250 have been redeployed and 250 more will be redeployed by the end of March, said a top official.
 
 “This includes 1,000 teaching staff who have been redeployed to universities including   and  ,” said the official. 
 
 However, the vice-chancellors have also been asked to conduct the recruitments in a fair manner by the governor. This comes in the backdrop of former Bharathiar University vice-chancellor A Ganapathi being caught red-handed by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption for accepting a bribe of Rs 30 lakh from an assistant professor. 
 
 Corruption in recruitments has been rampant in TN universities which have also compromised on the quality of professors entering the system, say observers.
 
 
