NAGPUR: With a view to curb rising pollution in Nagpur city, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is tying up with National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and   (RTO). Neeri has suggested templates for development of an action plan to control air control, which would require approximately Rs38,016 crore.

 NMC chief engineer Vijay   told TOI that the action plan will be prepared in line with directions from the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). He said the plan will take help of all government agencies, including state’s public works department, Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT),   ( ), district collector’s office, traffic police department, MPCB and MSRDC.
 
 Neeri’s senior principal scientist and head of Air Pollution Control Division  , senior scientist Sangita Goyal, NMC city engineer Manoj Talewar, executive engineer Aniruddh Chauganjkar, assistant regional transport officer Subodh Deshpande, NMC deputy engineer RW Raut and other senior officials attended a meeting to discuss measures to be taken to curb air pollution. Under the action plan, NMC proposes to take help of CCTV cameras installed under Smart City Project to identify vehicles creating air pollution. Such vehicles will be penalized.
 
 Banginwar also said NMC can use LED screens installed at many busy junctions to create awareness.
 
 Adulteration in fuel is also one of the main reasons of polluting vehicles. Detailed action plan to prevent such pollution will be needed, Banginwar stressed. Another reason for rise in city’s pollution is slow progress of ongoing development works, including cement road and flyover works. The delay is causing frequent traffic jams, which is leading to air pollution.
 
 Another major factor in air pollution is non-synchronization of traffic signals. Neeri scientists said if signals are synchronized, vehicles would not stop at intersections and thus there would be lower air pollution. According to the Neeri’s study, pothole free roads can also contribute to reducing city’s air pollution.
 
 Other measures suggested include regular check and control on burning of municipal solid waste, and designated parking to reduce traffic congestion. 
 
 It was also decided to promote battery operated vehicles like e-rickshaws, e-cars and also use of ethanol-run city buses, said Padma Rao. She said a review meeting on the action plan will be convened after 15 days.
 
 (With inputs from Tanuja Ratnaparkhi) 
 
 
