Ever since its inception, actor-producer Lara Dutta’s banner, Bheegi Basanti Entertainment, has focused on content. Right from her production debut, 'Chalo Dilli', the story has always been the driving force of her films. 

  And now, Lara is all set to announce a slate of films, which will include both domestic and international ventures. The projects, we hear, have resulted from two years of research on real stories, which Lara feels will resonate with the audience, who are looking for real-life heroes and true events that inspire them. 
 
  She is all set to kick-start with an international drama series based on the book, ' ', which is a meticulous account of a kidnapping that paved the way for 9/11. The story revolves around the 1995 abduction of six Westerners that took place in the Kashmir valley. The best-seller, written by Adrian Levy and Cathy Scott-Clark — journalists who had previously worked for The Guardian and The Sunday Times, respectively — reads like a gripping crime thriller. The only difference is, both the situation and characters are real. 
 
 Lara has also been working on a film she announced earlier, which is based on the women’s basketball team from Chhattisgarh. Though it began as a   film, the project has now gone international. It will be produced by Bheegi Basanti Entertainment and UK-based producer Jonathan Cavendish, who is known for backing the 'Bridget Jones' series (starring  ), and  ' (starring Cate Blanchett). The movie will be helmed by a UK-based director. 
 
 Passionate about her role as a producer, Lara says, “Stories are responsible for shaping mindsets and changing beliefs, and we are fortunate to have found these stories right here in our homeland. When I read The Meadow many years ago, I knew it would be something I would definitely find a way to showcase. Now, with the rights in hand, this is definitely going to be something exciting that a global audience will see originating from India. The story of the Chhattisgarh women's basketball team has so much heart and I’ve been wanting to make it into a film ever since I heard it. It is a perfect example of the conversation the world is having right now about empowering women. As a banner, it is incredibly satisfying to be able to give this story a much larger voice with a worldwide audience, and joining hands with Jonathan has made that possible.” 
 
