VIJAYAWADA: In his nine-page missive to NDA’s estranged ally,  , BJP president Amit Shah listed what the Centre has done for  . While the Act mandates the Centre to set up 11educational institutions of national importance by 2022, nine institutions have already been established and are functioning, he said. Similarly, of the eight infrastructure projects that the Act has proposed, Centre has already initiated action on five feasible projects, the BJP chief said.

 Stating that the NDA government has more than doubled Central assistance to AP as compared to funds allocated in previous five years, Shah said: “Your government hailed this Central package as a great achievement of the state government. Suddenly, two years later, you made a U-turn again demanding special status which has become redundant in view of financial commitments fulfilled by the Centre.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The BJP chief dropped broad hints about corruption in the TDP government. “Why is it your government has not responded to Centre’s suggestion of setting up a special purpose vehicle for directly receiving NABARD funds? Is it because it poses problems in diverting such funds for ‘other’ purposes?”
 
 On funds for Amaravati, Shah said the state government has spent only 8% of Rs 1,000 crore released by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. “When the state government has not utilised funds given so far, how can it expect the Centre to release more funds for the purpose,” he said. On the issue of unitisation of Central funds, Shah said “there are some serious lapses on the part of your government which cannot be ignored….Your statements that the state government has no obligation to give any statement of expenditure are evasive and reflect government deficit. We were looking at TDP as our partner in the progress of the people of AP. Unfortunately, partisan politics has overtaken leading to your party leaving NDA,” Amit Shah concluded.
 
 In his stinging reply to Shah in the AP Assembly, Naidu regretted the Union government was indifferent. “They did not honour promises made to the people. What all we are asking now is fulfilment of the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, the promises made by the then Prime Minister in   and the industrial incentives which are given to the states having special category status,” he said.
 
 He alleged that the Centre had misled him stating that the SCS is being withdrawn as per the recommendations of the  . “I was promised that the government would give better financial benefits through a special package as the SCS is being withdrawn. I accepted it and wanted more industrial and tax incentives,” he said. However, he alleged that the centre did not withdraw SCS to other states and had further extended financial benefits to them.
 
 “The NDA government refunded GST to the north-eastern states on March 31, 2017. Again on March 21, 2018, even as AP is fighting, the Centre announced the North Eastern Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS) which gives them industrial and tax incentives. AP too sought the same but the Centre denied us,” he said. Naidu also blamed the Union government for asking him to float a SPV, while no such SPV was required for north-eastern states. “Why this discrimination? Why don’t you give us the Central funds as you are giving to the north-eastern States and other SCS states,” he asked.
 
 Referring to the Vizag-Chennai corridor, Naidu said the Central government was expected to fund it on par with the Delhi-Mumbai corridor. However, “the government is showing discrimination. We are being ill-treated,” he said. “The letter contains some facts diluted. It is a well drafted letter to insult Telugus,” he said and wanted people to question BJP leaders on these issues.
 
