KOCHI:   students - who were looking forward to a much-needed vacation after board exams - got a shock on Wednesday as CBSE announced re-exams in two subjects. The board has decided to reconduct exams in economics (Class XII) and mathematics (Class X). 

 This has not only dampened their spirits but also put their holiday plans in jeopardy. The board took this decision after allegations arose that several question papers were leaked ahead of the exams. The   decision is applicable across all CBSE regions, including Kerala.
 
 "It was a terrible news for students as they were exiting the exam hall with some relief and joy. Then this news broke. Most students were comfortable with the mathematics exam. It is sad that all students have to suffer due to the actions of a few miscreants," said general secretary of   Indira Rajan, adding that there were no reports of malpractice in Kerala.
 
 "It is unfair because my paper went well and I was done with this examination. I was not involved in any sort of malpractice and yet I have to give another exam," said a student who had just completed her maths exam and found that there was a re-exam.
 
 "Tenth grade students this year have become guinea pigs as compulsory board exams have been reintroduced after a while and now they have to deal with re-exam. My son was quite upset after the board announcement. Either way, he is going take a break till the re-exam dates are announced. We had planned an outing and now that is on hold," said Sreeja Ajith, parent of a Class X student .
 
 The board issued a statement that it will be conducting a re-examination to protect its 'sanctity' and ensure fairness to students. The dates for fresh exams will be shared on the board's website within a weeks' time.
 
 "The paper was easy for my daughter. She had come home happy but now her Easter holidays have been ruined. Mathematics is a challenging subject for students and so they will have to continue their preparations. We were planning to celebrate today but now, the jovial mood has dissipated," said  , mother of a Class X student.
 
 President of Kerala CBSE School Management Association TPM   said: "It is unfortunate that such a thing happened. Most students were happy that their economics and maths exams ended without much difficulty. I feel the board must update its security facility and ensure that such incidents don't recur."
 
 
