CHANDIGARH: Even as the elected representatives and residents are fretting over non-implementation of smart parking solutions, the private firm managing the parking lots has shifted the blame on the Chandigarh municipal corporation. 

 The civic body as well as private firm  , which was hired to run the parking lots, have failed to implement the smart parking solution even nearly five months after the parking rates were increased. Overcrowding and haphazard parking are a common scene at all parking lots.
 
 In reply to a show-cause notice issued by the corporation, the firm explained reasons for non-implementation of smart parking solutions and maintained that the civic body failed to fulfill its contractual obligations.
 
 The firm raised the issue of illegal encroachments in the parking lots and said that the   had to provide vacant possession of all parking lots to the firm. However, there are parking lots that are illegally occupied by vendors. The corporation has also been accused for failing to prepare layout plan of each parking lot, which firm claimed to have done at its own expense.
 
 
 
 The firm also highlighted delay in providing electricity connection in the parking lots. It also claimed that electricity connection, one of the key components for implementation of smart solutions, was provided 2 months after handing over the parking lots. Not only that, the corporation also failed repair roads and road gullies in the lots. The firm has claimed to have spent Rs 3 crore on structural development that was to be borne by the corporation and Rs 8 crore on the infrastructural development of all parking lots.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, municipal commissioner Jatinder Yadav and   mayor Divesh Moudgil were not available for comments.
 
 Amid the ongoing tussle between the councillors and officials of the MC over hiked parking charges, members of the finance and contract committee on Monday agreed on move a resolution in the general house meeting to terminate the pact signed between the MC and the firm.
 
 
 
