NEW DELHI: To break the deadlock between the   and the Indian Olympic Association ( ) over the contentious  , the International Olympic Committee ( ) has offered to mediate by constituting a four-partite working group which will help in ensuring good governance and autonomy of sports federations in India.

 
 
 
 IOC president  , who is on a three-day visit to India from April 18-20, proposed this during his meeting with union sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore here on Thursday. The group will have representatives from the IOC, Olympic Council of Asia (OCA), IOA and the ministry.
 
 According to Bach, both the ministry and IOA have agreed to the formation of the group. It would mean that the IOC and OCA will also have a say in India’s revised draft of the sports code, which the government soon plans to debate in the Parliament.
 
 
 
 
 “We addressed the issue of good governance and autonomy in sports and, for the IOC, these are just the two sides of the same coin,” Bach said.
 
 “The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) has so many times recognised this autonomy of sports without which there could be no international sport. If the same rules do not apply everywhere in the world, then there would be no competition. In this respect, we are pleased with the commitment shown by the IOA to make good governance a priority. The sports minister, too, recognised the autonomy of sports. The IOC has made its contribution by offering the expertise to find a solution for good governance and autonomy in accordance to the Olympic charter. I am sure a good solution will come to us in this respect,” Bach added.
 
 During his hour-long meeting with Bach, Rathore, it’s been learnt, batted vociferously for transparency in the functioning of the IOA and national sports federations (NSFs) through sports code to ensure fair selection of players for competitions and accountability for proper utilisation of funding to sports bodies by the government.
 
 However, fearing excessive government interference, Bach, according to some of the IOA members who attended the meeting, informed Rathore that in the name of transparency and autonomy, the government can’t impose the sports code. While urging less government interference, Bach told the minister, according to IOA members, that rather than fighting on the issue, both the ministry and IOA should ensure that the principles of good governance are followed. It’s only after this discussion that Bach proposed the working group which was accepted by all.
 
 The revised draft of the sports code has become a bone of contention between the ministry on one hand and the IOA and NSFs on the other. It bars the ministers, parliamentarians, MLAs and bureaucrats from holding key posts in the NSFs and other autonomous sports bodies, apart from the ever-contentious clause of age and tenure. The draft is the revision of the original sports code of 2011, which had the IOC’s approval.
 
 Recently, the IOA formed an eight-member committee, with R K Anand as working president, to hold talks with the government in order to ensure smooth functioning between the IOA and the ministry.
 
 Bach also had another important announcement to make. He informed that the IOC will form a separate four-member group which will devise a roadmap where the most talented athletes from India will be helped to prepare for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and other important competitions with the help of international expertise. The members of this group will also come from the IOC, OCA, IOA and the ministry.
 
