THANE: Motorists will have to brace for traffic congestion for the next two months as over 40,000 heavy vehicles will be diverted to the interior parts of Navi Mumbai and Thane city as the   will be shut for repairs.

 The Public Works Department (PWD) will be undertaking repair work of the dilapidated Mumbra road overbridge which goes above the railway line. Work will begin from April 16. Druing this ime not only will the ROB be repaired, but maintenance work of the 3-km Mumbra bypass will also be carried out.
 
 “Mumbra bypass is the only link from JNPT to the western part of India as it is shorter route and easily accessible. Everyday almost 40,000 to 45,000 heavy vehicles use this road. So when this road will be shut, motorists will only have two other alternative roads to travel to and fro JNPT —they can go via   and enter Thane or can take the   road towards   bypass and enter  . But we are expecting many to take the Airoli route as it may be just 5km more but if they take the Govindwadi bypass road then they will travel around 10km more. So there will be more traffic congestion on the Kopri bottleneck. Even the road near Rabale police station will be affected as only one heavy vehicle can take a turn at one time. Also, if these vehicles come from Airoli then they will have to pay two tolls but we might give exemption on one,” said a senior traffic officer.
 
 The officials stated that the reason the work is being done in these two months is because the educational institutions will be shut and there won’t be school vans or buses along the road. Also, many would go out of town on vacation, so there will be less traffic in the interior parts of the city. Even in 2009 the Mumbra bypass was shut for almost four months as the concretisation work was being carried out.
 
 “We are going to put bearings and distressing on the bridge as only the upper part of the bridge is affected and the pillars as intact. This will help decrease the vibrations which one feels while travelling on the bridge. Also, the bypass has sharp turns due to which there have been many accidents wherein the vehicles have toppled. So, we will be placing stone barricades. Even the potholes on the bypass will be filled,” said an official from PWD.
 
 
