NEW DELHI:   on Friday said it has introduced a “cyber threats crisis” email hotline for politicians and political parties in India. The social media giant, recently embroiled in a major controversy over misuse of private data, is also working on an “election integrity” microsite for India, a top company official told TOI.

 
 Compromised accounts and even the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), which works under union ministry of electronics and IT, can write to indiacyberthreats@fb.com in case of a security breach. Facebook also released a “cyber security guide” for political accounts. These include basic security practices such as setting up two-factor authentication and not clicking on dubious links. The announcement comes a day after the company, co-founded by  , submitted its responses to the union government’s questions on user privacy and election integrity – the government’s second such round of questions to the company.
 
 “At times, a few sophisticated bad actors will seek to target high-profile political figures and those connected to them to undermine democratic discourse online. This   guide provides best practices for politicians and political parties on how to keep your Facebook pages and Facebook accounts secure. We are also making available to politicians and political parties in India a special Cyber Threats Crisis Email Line for compromised Facebook pages and accounts. These efforts are part of Facebook’s broader  ,” says a note attached to the guide.
 
 Besides the “cyber hotline,” Facebook is also working on an “elections integrity” microsite, the company’s public policy director for India and South and Central Asia,  , told TOI. “We are also in the process of building our elections integrity microsite where we will be putting out dynamic updates to what we are doing in terms of education, enforcement, and what we are doing with fact-checking partners,” she said. Facebook partnered with Indian fact-checking website Boom Live last month to flag pieces of misinformation on the website. Content reported as fake news is downranked on the social network to prevent it from going viral, Das said.
 
 Facebook had announced last October that it would roll out a feature, where political and issue-based ads would be marked as such, and carry a disclosure on sponsorship. This feature will be extended to India ahead of the 2019 general elections. “The entire purpose of ads transparency is disclosure. So if you’re running an issue campaign in support of a candidate, and if it’s an issue ad, that ad will have to have a disclosure saying who’s paid for it. There has to be an assignment of interest…and that will help you say that well, this surrogate is actually supported by so-and-so,” Das told TOI.
 
 Classifying such political ads will be done after expert consultations. “We are working very hard to pull together a group of experts who have eminence and of course, the election commission has very detailed guidelines in terms of what they perceive to be advertising online,” Das said on identifying political and issue-based ads.
 
 On April 25, the Indian government sent a set of questions to Facebook, asking it to detail a proposed security architecture "so that data concerning Indians are not pilfered or manipulated again for extraneous purposes including to influence the elections.” This was weeks after the   scandal unfolded with a whistleblower from the UK-based political consultancy revealing how it used Facebook user data to influence American voters ahead of the 2016 elections in the USA. The union government had set a deadline of May 10 for responses, even as it sent a parallel questionnaire to Cambridge Analytica. Facebook had disclosed last month that 5.62 lakh Indian Facebook users were “potentially affected” by the data breach.
 
 While Facebook did not publicly share its submission to the union government, the company said it focused on changes in policy concerning data access by third-party apps and its investments towards “election integrity” and towards preventing spread of misinformation. Last month, Zuckerberg had appeared before US lawmakers in a public hearing to answer questions on data misuse on his platform.
 
