NAGPUR: The rich heritage of  , mostly comprising pictures of unsung and neglected monuments, was on display at an exhibition organized by the Nagpur circle of Archaeological Survey of India ( ) at old high court building on Wednesday. April 18 is celebrated as International Day for   and Sites.

 The daylong exhibition was inaugurated by Ashish Shende, assistant professor at Morris College. The exhibits included Narnala fort in Akola, Chandrapur fort, SNAGPUR
 
 hiv temple in Buldhana, Lal Khan tomb in Amravati and Tillot — A megalithic dolmen in Bhandara, besides others. It also had on the display the images showcasing heritage sites before and after the conservation work was taken up.
 
 The display that caught everyone’s attention was the documentation of an ancient temple at Deotak in Chandrapur district which had information about steps taken for conservation like condition mapping, assessment, drafting, restoration and others. 
 
 Talking to TOI, assistant archaeologist Shilpa Jamgade said, “Conservation can be technical or preventive. We focus on prevention and make people aware about the significance of these sites so that their mindset changes when they visit such places. This helps avoid deterioration of sites or monuments as people keep a safe distance from them. We mainly target school and college students as they are a good medium to create awareness.”
 
 The ASI also launched a cleanliness fortnight and removed filth near the old high court building. There are plans to clean seven monuments, including three each in Nagpur and Chandrapur, and one in Lonar region, Jamgade said. This time, it will not just be a cleaning work and volunteers will strive to make these heritage sites and roads leading to them look cleaner and presentable. This will help avoid encroachments and provide a breathing space to monuments, she added.
 
 Those present at the venue were superintending archaeologist IA Hashmi, conservation assistant Milind Angetkar and ASI officials.
 
 
