KOLKATA: A south Kolkata school campus, which was recently rocked by sexual-abuse allegations levelled by a student against a staffer, witnessed a demonstration in support of homosexuality on Monday. 

 At the forefront of the agitation were a group of Left activists, members of human rights organisations and some   activists, who formed a human chain outside the school and performed two street plays against the "demonisation of homosexuality". The demonstration, however, did not get any support from most teachers and guardians at the school who distanced themselves from the event, leading to a far lower turnout than expected. Acting headmistress   said the school was "busy with HS exams starting from March 27". "We neither noticed the programme nor want to see it," she said before hanging up.
 
 The event, Samakami Aami Bhalobasi Aami, was created on  . Till morning, 192 people registered their interest in attending the event and 80 confirmed their presence. But only 30 attended the demonstration held from noon till 3pm. "The low turnout suggests the overall attitude of society to homosexuality and we need to change it. But this is a start and we will carry it forward, hoping for a better response," said Anustup Roy, an IT analyst who attended the event.
 
 The programme comes a few days after 10 students at the school claimed to have been forced to sign a "confession letter", admitting they were lesbians. Education minister   waded into the controversy, saying lesbianism was against the state's mainstream culture and the school was free to take action if students were found guilty. The chain of events drew criticism from several fronts, with sociologists and psychologists castigating the "homophobic" comments. "Most societies, till they are adequately modernized, are intolerant towards certain human behaviour and choices. Our society is not an exception. Homosexuality is entirely a subject of personal choice," psychologist Siladitya Roy said.
 
 The 10 students later claimed they were sitting inside a classroom and had put their arms around each other, when they were pulled up. The guardians alleged some of those students were witness to a molestation on campus and were targeted as they spoke up. "Even if they are lesbians, the school can't make them sign an undertaking. We wanted to submit a memorandum but the school did not meet us," a woman, whose Class-XI daughter was forced to sign, said.
 
 BA third-year student  , who created the Facebook event, said the group formed the human chain because they wanted "to say holding hands in classroom was not enough to say who is a lesbian and who is not".
 
 
