CHENNAI: As locals head to Goa and Kerala to unwind and make the most of a three-day weekend during  , foreign travellers seem to prefer Mathura and Vrindavan to have a ringside view of the festival of colours.

 The Holi weekend begins on Friday. Travel and tour operators say there has been an increase in short domestic getaways and an 18% year-on-year increase the number of travellers coming to India from abroad for Holi. 
 
 Discounts in domestic air fares announced by airlines have given a fillip to domestic travel. Sharat Dhall, chief operating officer (B2C), Yatra.com, said, “We have seen a steady increase in travel bookings with travellers taking advantage of these offers to book their tickets in advance. We have specifically witnessed heightened demand for destinations like Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Pune.”
 
 He also said that “Vacationing during the long weekend seems to have become the norm in the country. Travellers are looking at these weekends as the opportunity to indulge in short getaways. Contrary to the usual preference of international destinations, we are seeing a number of travellers opting for domestic destinations for the coming weekend.” 
 
 Shravan Gupta, executive director (leisure businesses) of FCM Travel Solutions India, said, “Kerala and Goa are popular destinations for domestic tourists. For the outbound, a lot of movement is expected to short-haul destinations with relaxed visa policies like Sri Lanka, Singapore, Thailand and Dubai.”
 
 Festivals are also when spiritual tourism gets a boost from foreign travellers.   said, “We have observed an 18% year-on-year increase in inbound bookings (international tourists) incorporating Mathura and Vrindavan to their itineraries to experience the grandeur and larger-than-life celebrations.” 
 
 Dewa Ayu Lakshmiadi Janapriati, head of marketing division of Bali government tourism office said, “A big number of Balinese travel to India as part of spiritual tourism.” Several tourists from   too visit temples in India round the year.
 
 
