Mohit Gera assumed charge as the director of the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB) in Coimbatore in February. An Indian Forest Service officer of 1987 batch, he has served as additional principal chief conservator of forests in Jammu and Kashmir and as a professor at the Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy,  . Gera spoke to Vishnu Swaroop on the outcomes of the recent national conference ‘Towards Resilient Ecosystems: The Role of Forestry Research’, where experts from across the country met to discuss the role of forestry research in tackling climate change. He also spoke on the threats to Indian forests, urban green spaces and public’s role in conserving forests.

 What were the major outcomes of the conference on resilient eco-systems held recently at IFGTB?
 
 We had five sessions, which came out with recommendations such as creating India-specific modelling tools that can forecast the vulnerability of forests and biotechnological research on creating climate-smart trees that are drought tolerant, heat tolerant and also fire hardy. These recommendations would be sent to Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), which would send it to the ministry for reference while relooking the second national forestry research priorities (NFRP).
 
 Speaking of national forestry research priorities, how successful was the first NFRP? What were the lessons learnt?
 
 The first NFRP formulated in 2000 focussed more on conventional research. But now, we have to relook it based on the biodiversity Act, international commitments such as that to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Also, in view of the present issues such as climate change, research is needed for meeting immediate requirements.
 
 What are the major threats to Indian forests?
 
 Forest fires are a major threat. They have advanced in time and also have started occurring in more places. Invasive species pose a serious threat as their regeneration is robust and have a long range distribution. Also India’s forests are under tremendous pressure as almost 1.73 lakh villages depend on forests for their needs such as fuel and income.
 
 What is the role of local communities in conserving forests?
 
 Local communities can be involved in implementing the ‘Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD+)’ mechanism for monitoring forests. Funding for this can be pooled from outside sources and any appreciation can be distributed to the communities.
 
 Today, the idea of urban forests is gaining momentum. What kind of trees are suited for urban spaces? 
 
 In urban areas, trees have to be selected diligently. Trees that have bigger leaves would absorb particulate matter and obnoxious gases and also provide noise mitigation. Trees such as pungam, peepal, cadamba, Indian badam, mahilam and putranjiva are well suited for urban landscapes.
 
 What would climate change mean to the local ecosystems such as the Western Ghats?
 
 The Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, did a climate modelling study based on various parameters such as fragmentation, tree density, altitude and biodiversity and identified the Western Ghats as a vulnerable area. But only by monitoring the ongoing changes and research can we assess the impact on the Western Ghats.
 
 
