BENGALURU: Frequent transfers of officials holding key posts is one of the reasons behind Karnataka having slipped from the seventh to ninth spot in the recently released   report on health index. 

 "Vacancies of key health staff are linked with both access to healthcare services as well as their quality," the report points out. It stresses that the average occupancy of three key posts (state level) reduced to 6.5 months in 2015-16 from 6.85 months in 2014-15.
 
 "The report has disappointed the me dical community. One of the reasons for the drop is frequent transfers of top-level officials. This can easily be addressed by the government," said Dr  , memb er-secretary, task force for Karnataka Public Health Policy, and consultant to  . The recent Karnataka Jnana Ayog recommendations on the health policy had included these points, he added. 
 
 "Lack of consistency in service of senior officers has been an issue. This has affected transfer of funds and the grievance redressal mechanism," admitted a senior officer in the health department. Officials also say that handling additional charges is a tough job, and causes health facilities to suffer.
 
 The report points out that the average occupancy period of chief medical officers in district government hospitals reduced to 13 months in 2015-16, compared to 15 months in 2014-15. "The worst affected are hospitals in North Karnataka, where it's difficult to get officials to work," a top official said.
 
 Highlighting the increase in vacancies of specialists in district hospitals, the report shows that 22 per cent of specialists' posts were vacant in 2015-16. It may be recalled that in July 2017, the health department had called for recruitment of vacant specialists' posts and had asked doctors to quote their price. 
 
 The health index was developed by Niti Aayog with technical assistance from the World Bank, Union and state governments, development partners and experts.
 
  
 
 
  A nother reason that led to the drop is a 0.73 per cent increase in newborns with low birth weight. Dr  , public health expert, said: "The report shows a dip in antenatal check-ups in the first trimester of pregnancy. When it comes to data capturing from the private healthcare sector, there seems to be a problem." However, she said the report doesn't throw light on mental health issues, cancer, renal disorders and other non-communicable diseases. 
 
  "Streamlining data capturing, monitoring and regular evaluation will go a long way in taking Karnataka to the top," said Dr Alex. 
 
