It was Tuesday morning, but  , the 3-year-old daughter of   S R had no knowledge about the news of her father’s untimely demise. The night before, she had been asking for him even as her mother Akhila got admitted to a hospital after hearing the news of her husband’s death. But on Tuesday, the unusual visitors who flowed in to their home somehow made her happy.

 “His last wish was to see his daughter. He told us that he was brutally assaulted and he had severe stomach ailments. He asked us to bring her to the hospital when we met him but we couldn’t arrange it. What makes me sadder is that the cops even stopped us from giving water to my son,” said Shyamala, mother of the deceased Sreejith.   says that she met him at the police station on Saturday morning. “They didn’t allow me inside but I could see him sit in a corner on a chair. He was in pain and was covering his stomach with both hands,” Shyamala said.
 
 Later a policeman asked me to give some water to Sreejith.
 
 “I borrowed a vessel from a nearby house and went to give him some water. However, SI Deepak yelled at me and asked me to go out. I could at least have consoled myself thinking that I was able to give water to my son before he breathed his last. Policemen even denied me that,”she said.
 
 “He was first taken to a nearby hospital on Saturday morning as he vomited in the station. However, they brought him back. In the evening he was again taken to medical college. Later, he was shifted the private hospital upon his demand as his wife works there,” said Shyamala, adding that his body had marks of boots when they met him at the hospital.
 
 Ramakrishnan, Sreejith’s father, couldn’t control his emotions as he talked about the incident. “He kept on saying that he doesn’t know anything but they repeatedly thrashed him telling him that they would decide whether he is involved or not,” said  .
 
 “I don’t know what to ask the government, we have already lost him. At least we need justice now. I don’t know what would happen to the girl now,” said Ramakrishnan breaking into tears.
 
