Superstar Rajinikanth’s decision to launch his own party in time to contest the next assembly polls in the state may have left his fans excited, but fans of   Haasan have dismissed it as another one of Rajinikanth’s well-orchestrated publicity stunts to promote his upcoming films. Political observers say that Rajinikanth’s ideology based on ‘spiritual politics’ is unconvincing and claim that it is just a ploy to buy more time.

 Senior journalist   said, “Rajinikanth was forced to announce his political entry to avoid further ridicule. When M   entered politics, he came with the party name and flag.   seems bent on entering Fort St. George without getting involved in field work. It sets a bad example to his fans. Vijayakanth had made field visits before announcing his party. When there are so many other parties that have been built with blood and sweat, why would the voters favour Rajinikanth?”
 
 Sudhangan recalled interviewing Rajinikanth in 1985 when the superstar dismissed the idea of joining politics. However, two years later, in an interview, Rajinikanth seemed to make a U-turn on his political stand. Sudhangan had then asked Rajinikanth if he had joined  . The actor replied that it was news to him. “If I enter politics, it will not be a hush-hush affair. I will enter with a bang,” he had said.
 
 Administrator of the WhatsApp group Thalaivar Sonthangal (leader’s relatives)  , 46, claims that Kamal Haasan has entered politics only to tide over his financial crisis. The die-hard Rajinikanth fan said, “Kamal is here to make money, which is why he has begun appearing in TV shows and commercials. We do not see him as competition.”
 
 Kamal Rubalingam, a member of the Kamal Haasan Welfare Association (Tiruvallur district), said that Rajinikanth was merely stealing Kamal Haasan’s lines. “Kamal declared that he was not entering politics for fame or money during his speech in November. Rajinikanth is merely repeating it. We are still trying to understand what he means by spiritual politics.”
 
 Kamal fan Anbarasu, 45, a businessman, says that Rajinikanth is treading the path taken by Telugu film star Chiranjeevi, who started a party only to later merge it with Congress. “If Rajinikanth launches a party, he will end up merging it with the BJP. Rajinikanth’s speech about his political entry lacked clarity and vision. Kamal Haasan has laid out a road map and will not attempt to confuse people like Rajinikanth,” Anbarasu said.
 
 Members of Kamal Haasan Welfare Association insist that they have been involved in field work over the last three decades, unlike fans of Rajinikanth. Anbarasu said, “We have been involved in organ donation and blood donation. Kamal sir and his daughter Shruti have pledged their organs. Kamal does not merely speak, he leads from the front.”
 
 Sudhangan dismisses Kamal Haasan as a Twitter politician. “He is making a mockery of himself by projecting himself as a politician. Having realised there is a power vacuum; these actors have suddenly set out to fish in troubled waters. In the case of the incomparable MGR, his cinema and politics grew alongside each other,” he added.
 
