KOLKATA: The occupants of the buildings on Old  , who had been asked to stay away from the premises till Saturday midnight for the East-West Metro tunnel boring, were served a fresh notice stating they can return only after February 5 midnight.

 The notice issued by Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), implementing agency of the Rs 9,000 crore Metro corridor coming up between Howrah Maidan and Salt Lake’s Sector V, had directed them not to enter their premises till 11pm on Saturday.
 
 KMRC had declared seven structures, which are around a century-old, unsafe. Portions of one of these buildings had collapsed earlier this month, days before the tunnel boring machine (TBM) burrowing the underground Metro link passed under it. Since then, the Metro authorities have been more cautious regarding the TBM’s influence zone and the structural after-effect of burrowing — the process might weaken the foundations of the unsafe buildings posing threat to the occupants. The stretch between BBD Bag and Esplanade is turning out to be the most critical for the TBM (christened Prerna), which is digging the east-bound tunnel.
 
 Around 11.20am on Sunday, when the administrator of 1840-founded J Sur & Co housed at 10 Old Court House Street — Baidyanath Das — tried to open his shop, he was handed over a KMRC notice stating that the evacuation period has been extended till February 5 midnight (next Monday). Earlier on January 20, the residents were handed over a similar notice which asked them to return after 11pm on January 27.
 
 “We tired to open our shop on Monday morning as the evacuation period ended according to the first notice. But much to our surprise, we have to stay away from our premises till next Tuesday according to a fresh notice,” an agitated Das told TOI, adding, “Who would compensate for the loss we are incurring.” Das and a few other shopowners would submit a deputation at the KMRC office on Monday, asking if they will be compensated for this prolonged evacuation.
 
 “Who will be accountable if any individual is harmed during the TBM’s journey along the dilapidated buildings?” asked  , a paanwallah, who has been putting up with other evacuees at the MG Road hotel, a temporary accommodation arranged by KMRC.
 
 The notice, signed by   A K  , stated: “The residents of the building are requested to keep on staying at Hotel Himalaya as a safety measure. You may be allowed to re-use your business establishments earlier if the work is completed before February 5 midnight.”
 
