PUNE: The Queer Pride Parade has turned into an annual event in many cities in the country over the years. But Pune continues to lag when it comes to the LGBT community claiming public places for an informal get together. 

 In an effort to correct this,   founder   has initiated an informal meet-up, or Queer Katta, for the LGBT community once a month.
 
 The first such meet was held on Friday evening at a canteen located near  . The meet provided an opportunity to people, who have come out about their sexual orientation or gender identity or may be struggling to do so, to get together and chat. Free condoms were also distributed to the community in order to propagate safe sex.
 
 As many as 12 to 13 people, most of whom were in the 20-30 age group, gathered in a corner of the canteen that is a favourite hangout for students from nearby colleges. Some of the attendees travelled all the way from   for the first-ever Queer Katta.
 
 “Half the number of people, who attended the meet, have already come out, while the other half were still in the closet. The very name Katta gives us a feeling of an informal setting where friends hang out. While my office is open for people from the community to seek help, those yet to come out of the closet do not want to come there for fear of being seen by a relative or a friend. Secondly, we want them to be at ease and talk naturally. People talk when they are relaxed,” said Khire.
 
 Khire chose to hold the katta at a canteen so that the group wouldn’t be conspicuous. Moreover, it venue would be affordable to a lower middle class person too. 
 
 The venue will change each month and will be declared on the Samapathik Trust’s website apart from Khire’s personal page on  .
 
 The gay rights activist believes that apart from coming out, a major problem most lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender face is the taboo associated with living as an LGBT in the country. 
 
 “We don’t care for identification, even people with fictitious names can show up. We just want them to know that they have a support system that will help them in time of need. Most of them are scared how the society will react, what will happen to them, their families, etc, and they just want to know what our experiences have been,” said Khire.
 
 Although he may not have data on how many LGBT people suffer from sexually transmitted diseases, Khire pointed out that there is greater prevalence of unsafe sex. 
 
 “At these meetups, we want to talk about practicing safe sex. Secondly, depression, suicidal tendencies and other related illnesses are also high in the LGBT community. We need to help people connect with doctors, understand themselves better and seek aid whether it is medical, legal, or related to any other problem,” added Khire.
 
 
