GURUGRAM: Air pollution level crossed the ‘severe’ mark on   morning, with PM2.5 recording a high of 366.37 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3). By evening though, sufficient sunlight and resulting fall in moisture level in the lower atmosphere had pushed PM2.5 down to 269.88 µg/m3, considered ‘very poor’. 

 
  
 
 “The concentration of particulate matter increases in the morning due to fog and low temperature. Thankfully, the concentration decreased by evening, as better sunlight helped lowering moisture in the atmosphere,” said an official of Haryana State Pollution Control Board. The highest PM2.5 level recorded on Saturday was 288 µg/m3 (‘very poor’) and on Friday was 216 µg/m3. 
 
 While air quality index (AQI) for Sunday was unavailable, on Saturday and Friday, it was 366 and 373 respectively.
 
 
  
  
 
 Officials of the meteorological department blamed the high pollution on snowfall in mountainous areas. “Due to snowfall in mountainous areas, north India continues to reel under a cold wave. Temperature is expected to go down further in Delhi-NCR over the next week. Fog is also expected to engulf the region in the mornings,” said the met official.
 
 An official of HSPCB said the graded response action plan (GRAP) for ‘very poor’ is already in place, and if the pollution level hit and remain ‘severe’ over the next 48 hours, GRAP for that level will be implemented. “We’ve implemented all GRAP measures for the ‘very poor’ category. We’ve instructed all concerned civic agencies and departments to take necessary action. However, the ‘severe’ measures will be implemented only if PM2.5 remains above 250 µg/m3 for 48 hours,” he said.
 
  continue to blame   activity and garbage burning for the situation. 
 
 “We can’t just blame fog for increase in particulate matter. We’re still witnessing cases of waste burning and dust pollution near construction sites. There is an urgent need to check both,” said  , an environmental engineer.
 
 The minimum and maximum temperature on Sunday was between 7°C and 22°C, respectively.
 
