AURANGABAD: The civic body will be setting up a special   as a permanent solution to the   issue of the city. 

 Making a formal announcement to this effect on Sunday, mayor   said it could take at least a year for the project to get functional.
 
 “We have decided to set up a waste-to-energy plant as suggested by the state level authorities. The expression of interest (EOI) for the project would be floated on Monday. The location of the project will be decided once the initial formalities are over,” Ghodele said during a special discussion organised on garbage issue in the city in presence of public representatives from all parties by TOI and Maharashtra Times.
 
 Principal secretary of   Manisha Mhaiskar, who was in town on Friday to resolve the garbage issue, is said to have pressed for the waste-to-energy plant as a modern solution to garbage disposal issue. 
 
 Ghodele also said short-term measures would be taken to address the garbage disposal issue till the waste-to-energy plant comes up. “A plan was chalked out during the recent meeting chaired by the principal secretary of urban development department to deal with garbage issue in the short-term. We have divided the city into nine zones to address the issue and garbage disposal machinery would be set up in each zone. The government has committed financial support for both short-term and long-term measures,” Ghodele said.
 
 During the discussion on Sunday, all-party leaders criticised the civic body for its alleged failure to deal with the garbage issue. 
 
 MIM MLA from   Imtiaz Jaleel said it was an irony that the AMC was not in position to provide solution to basic civic issues, including garbage disposal. 
 
 The current waste management issue is a self-created problem by the civic body and ruling party leaders, especially the Shiv Sena. The vested interests of local political leaders have marred the functioning of the municipal corporation. While certain infrastructural facilities are slated to come up due to government intervention, we demand an external committee to keep watch on related purchases,” he said. 
 
 Criticising the civic body, Nationalist Congress Party MLC Satish Chavan said the government should invoke special powers to procure and set up facilities for waste disposal at Aurangabad instead of relying on the municipal corporation. “We also demand that the government should appoint an administrator on the local civic body so that the sufferings of residents of Aurangabad would come to an end,” he said. 
 
 Congress MLC Subhash Zambad blamed the Shiv Sena for pushing Aurangabad to the brink of unprecedented garbage issue. “Even though the saffron party has been in power for the past 28 years, it deliberately ignored garbage disposal issue. Now, when the situation is out of control, the party is undertaking some face-saving measures; that too by begging for help from the government,” he said.
 
 BJP MLA Atul Save said the government has worked out a 148-day action plan for a permanent solution to the garbage disposal issue. “It is unfortunate that a section of political rivals has been politicising the issue by levelling false charges against some of our top leaders. In fact, those leaders have always taken lead to break the deadlock over garbage issue,” he said. 
 
 
