Visakhapatnam: The steep hike in fees in corporate junior colleges dispelled the excitement of parents whose children were promoted to junior college this year. According to data collected from colleges and parents by the TOI, corporate colleges have increased their fee by at least 30%-40%. 

 For example, a top corporate college in the city has increased the fee for its AIEEE day-scholars’ batch at the non-air-conditioned campus, from Rs 50,000 last year to Rs 75,000. Fee for day-scholars’ IIT batch at the non-AC campus has shot up from Rs 60,000 to Rs 80,000. 
 
 Similarly, for hostelers, fee for the Eamcet batch at non-AC campus has gone up from Rs 90,000 to Rs 1,30,000. For the IIT regular batch the fee has risen from Rs 1,30,000 to a whopping Rs 2,00,000 at the non-AC campus. For the IIT special batch, fee was increased from Rs 2,40,000 to Rs 2,80,000. The BiPC day-scholar medical league batch are paying Rs 90,000 this year, compared to Rs 65,000 last year at the non-AC campus. For medical league hostelers, the fee has increased from Rs 1,50,000 to Rs 2,00,000 at the non-AC campus. At the AC campus, the fee ranges close to Rs 2.8 lakh.
 
 Jana Jagarana Samithi state secretary K Vasu said, corporate colleges have been exploiting the aspirations of parents. “The state government should rein in these colleges through a stringent fee-regulatory act. Parents from the middle- and lower classes are falling prey to these colleges. We will intensify our fight against these colleges in the future,” said Vasu.
 
 He further added that the state government has deliberately weakened government junior colleges by neither recruiting enough faculty, nor strengthening the infrastructure. 
 
 In their defence, private colleges claimed that the   was inevitable. It wil help provide better infrastructure and teaching facilities to students such as digital classrooms, air-conditioned rooms, laboratories among others.
 
 Meanwhile, corporate colleges in the city continued to turn a deaf ear to the government’s order to not run classes during summer holidays. This came to the forefront once again during the surprise visits of the district intermediate board officials to several corporate colleges in Visakhapatnam.
 
 Speaking to TOI, regional inspection officer of the Board of Intermediate Education, P Nagesh Kumar said, they have locked several junior colleges that were running classes during summer holidays. “I request the parents to take advantage of the almost free education provided at the government junior colleges. One can complete his intermediate at just Rs 4,000. Textbooks and others are provided free of cost,” said Nagesh Kumar.
 
 
