Visakhapatnam: With May temperatures being relatively moderate this year, citizens and tourists are flocking Visakhapatnam beaches to cool themselves off. According to the state tourism department officials, in total 2,70,206 people visited four main beaches like  , Bheemili, Rushikonda and Yarada, in April this year. 

 Though no extreme high temperature levels were reported in the city this summer, high humidity which generally causes sweating made people to to turn up to the beach fronts from the afternoon itself. On Saturday, city’s Waltair unit registered maximum temperature of only 34.5 degrees Celsius.
 
 “The number of footfall at the four main beaches has already crossed the April’s figure in May as on Saturday. The May’s footfall on the four beaches may touch 3 lakh,” said a senior tourism officer to TOI.
 
 RK Beach is the most favourite spot of the visitors followed by Rushikonda beach and Bhemili. RK Beach alone registered a footfall of 1,66,630 in April while Rushikonda beach registered the footfall of 56,612. Bheemili and Yarada beaches registered the footfall of 45515 and 1449 respectively.
 
 Apart from the domestic visitors, even foreigners also delighted to visit the beaches in the summer to have swim and bath apart from surfing at the Rushikonda Beach, the tourism officials said.
 
 “Nearly 2200 foreign tourists visited the beaches including 1425 at RK beach in April. The number may go up if the temperature levels are extremely high this time,” the tourism officer added. Speaking to TOI, India Meteorological Department (IMD) director (forecast) from Hyderabad, Dr K Naga Ratna said that Vizag did not receive high temperature levels this summer due to several meteorological reasons. “Heat islands and heat waves were also not formed in the city this summer. There was no sign of the deaths due to the heat strokes as well according to my knowledge,” Ratna added.
 
 Priyanka Mukherjee, a tourist from West Bengal, who was visited RK Beach, told TOI that Vizag is surely one of the most ideal destinations one can visit. “We visit Vizag during summer considering a lot of activities that one can enjoy in the city. However, there should be more added,” Mukherjee added.
 
 
