KOLKATA: A  , who brought his critically ill son to Kolkata for a kidney transplant last week, landed at   police station on Saturday after the donor —a brother-in-law also brought from Bangladesh — fled with all the cash and documents needed for the procedure.

 A multi-agency operation followed, which also involved “syndicates” that help crossborder smuggling on either side of the international border, and the episode had a happy ending 30 hours later with the arrest of the donor-turned-thief from  , on the India-Bangladesh border, 85 km from Kolkata.
 
  
  
 
 Fifty-year-old Bangladeshi businessman   was literally in tears when he reached the East Jadavpur police station on Saturday. He told cops how he had been robbed of nearly Rs 10 lakh by his brother-in-law, Aynal Haque Sardar, who was supposed to be donating the kidney that his son,  , would need for the transplant. Sardar had just vanished with the money and all the papers that were needed for the transplant and his 20-year-old son was critically ill and in tremendous pain, Mandal said.
 
 The three, along with other relatives, were staying at a guest house in Dinesh Nagar and were getting the final pre-procedure tests done at R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences on E M Bypass.
 
 Kidney donor was in touch with tout, Petrapole racket
 
 The three had arrived here about a week ago. But, some time between 11 p.m. on Friday and 5 a.m. on Saturday, Sardar fled with US$ 13,500 (around Rs 8,64,000) and Rs 1.3 lakh in Indian and Bangladeshi currency. He also took along with him a smartphone, voter IDs of father and son, debit and credit cards, affidavits, medical records and photographs, deputy commissioner of police (east)   told TOI.
 
 Cops decided to treat this case as “top priority” and used technical surveillance to find out that Sardar was in touch with a Sonarpur contact, a tout who had connections with Petrapole syndicates. A couple of initial raids failed but then cops came to know that the touts had been to Madhyamgram, from where they were trying to guide Sardar to the border.
 
 The first to be nabbed among the touts was Sonarpur’s Mujibar Mandal. He led cops to Sarajit Das, a tout operating from Petrapole. Cops interrogated Das, who led them to Sardar who was — at that time — attempting the crossover through the Petrapole border. Officials said they had informed the Bangladesh deputy high commission here about the developments.
 
 Two of Sardar’s associates — one of them involved in cross-border smuggling and trafficking — was also held. Officials suspect an organised racket of touts may be now targeting patients coming to Kolkata from across the border and have launched an wider probe.
 
 
