THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The blanket floor area ratio (FAR) proposed by the state government as per the fresh set of amendments in   municipality building rules ( ) and Kerala panchayat building rules ( ) is in conflict with the draft KMBR-2017 prepared by the five-member panel of town planners.

 The government had constituted teams for revising building rules as part of introducing separate rules for panchayats, municipalities and corporations. While FAR of four types of occupancies has been raised to four as per the amendment, the draft KMBR makes four classifications based on width of road to determine maximum permissible FAR.
 
 The draft KMBR has based maximum permissible FAR on road width, a factor which has been ignored in the amendments proposed by the local self government ( ) department.
 
 For instance, a commercial construction can avail an FAR of 4 with additional fee of Rs 3,000 per sqm only if the road width is more than 21 metres. This mandatory road width applies to multiplex constructions, storage occupancies and other types as well for availing the highest FAR of 4.
 
 The draft KMBR classifies road width as less than 7m, between 7 and 12m, between 12 and 21m and more than 21m to specify FAR for each type of construction. On the other hand, the new amendments ensure a free hand in choosing FAR regardless of road width and other factors. TOI had earlier reported as to how the uniform FAR would do away with the need for development control regulations and zoning restrictions. Officials associated with town planning said that it was the department of industries which had an upper hand in determining the new amendments which defy the basic concepts of town planning.
 
 “The government might have introduced the amendments to promote ease of doing business. We are not sure if the conditions proposed in draft KMBR regarding FAR and coverage would be taken forward,” an official said.
 
 Meanwhile, it is learnt that a group of town planners had met minister for   and expressed their concerns on introducing a blanket FAR for the state. “Such a blanket FAR is truly a concern for the state. FAR has to be kept at a lower slab so as to allow relaxations in master plan and town planning schemes,” a town planning official said.
 
 Even in terms of coverage, the amendments hardly match the proposals in draft KMBR. While the highest coverage proposed in draft KMBR is 70 for storage constructions, the amendments set the coverage at 80.
 
 
