NOIDA: A 25-year-old dacoit was shot at and nabbed after a gunfight with UP-STF in   on Sunday afternoon. The accused, Sanjay Aheriya, a resident of Aligarh, received injuries in his right shoulder and was admitted to a hospital.

 Raj Kumar Mishra, DSP, Noida-STF, said the police had received information about the movement of two dacoits at Jalalpur village roundabout. “An STF team was deployed in the area to check for the criminals. The police team signalled the suspects on a motorcycle to stop for checking. However, the suspect riding pillion tried to open fire at the police team in order to escape,” Mishra said.
 
 The police also opened fire, in which Sanjay was injured on his shoulder and fell off the bike. The police immediately arrested the accused while his accomplice, Viresh, managed to escape. The accused was later admitted to a community health centre in Bisrakh.
 
 Police said the accused was wanted in nearly 10 cases of attempt to murder, loot, robbery, etc in western UP. During interrogation, Sanjay apparently said he had formed a gang and robbed commuters exiting railway stations and bus stands at different places in Aligarh, Meerut, Baghpat, etc.
 
 The gang also conducted   at houses and factories in western UP. The state police had announced a bounty of Rs 50,000 on the arrest of Sanjay.
 
 Mishra said two other gang members,   and Satveer, were gunned down in an encounter in Meerut in December last year. “We will question the accused about his criminal history and the gang members. We have also launched a search for the absconding criminal,” said an officer.
 
 The police have recovered a country-made gun, four live cartridges and one motorcycle from him. Police said the accused will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody once he is discharged from hospital. Three police personnel–sub inspector  , constables Arvind Kumar and Baldev, also received minor injuries during the exchange of fire. They were rushed to a private hospital for first aid.
 
 
