BENGALURU: After notifying tariff for cabs, the   is planning to fix minimum fares and revise maximum fares for stage carriage buses, both private and government owned, plying on non-nationalized routes in Karnataka.

 Stage carriers pick up individual passengers from various points by issuing individual tickets and run mostly in districts like Mangaluru, Udupi, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar, Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Kolar, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Mandya and Mysuru. They are different from contract carriages which operate mainly on inter-city routes, in which a single party makes bulk bookings for marriages, tours and other events. 
 
 Sources in the transport department said they have recommended minimum and maximum fares to the government, classifying the buses into five categories — while the minimum tariff will range from Rs 9-Rs 16 for stage 1 (first 6.5 km), the maximum will be Rs 13-Rs 24 for the same distance. Fares per additional km vary from Rs 1 to Rs 1.80 (see box).
 
 This is the first time that the department is fixing minimum charges for stage carriage buses and dividing vehicles into five categories. At present, maximum tariff has been fixed for only two categories — ordinary and express services. The last fare revision happened in 2013. “We have come up with the revised fare structure after consulting various stakeholders, including representatives of private bus operators and state transport undertakings. We have also analysed factors like vehicle/operational costs and diesel price,” a transport department official said, adding the tariff will come into effect once the government approves the recommendations.
 
 Officials said   will also have to follow the revised fare structure on non-nationalized routes as there have been complaints from private bus operators saying KSRTC is plying at low fares on routes where it’s facing stiff competition from private players.
 
 Many passengers have opposed the move. “Fixing minimum fares will affect poor people travelling in these buses,” said Shivakumar K, a resident of Mangaluru.
 
 However, private bus operators argue they are incurring heavy losses. “KSRTC is operating at low fares on non-nationalized routes and has hiked fares on notified routes. It’s difficult to operate buses at low tariff,” said a private stage carriage operator. “We are not getting any financial assistance or concessions from the government unlike KSRTC,” he rued.
 
 
 
 
 The   ( ) recently rejected a complaint alleging that KSRTC was harassing private bus operators by charging low fares under the flexi-rate scheme. The   (NCLAT) said it’s not unfair on the part of KSRTC to charge fares through a flexi-rate scheme as they are lesser than the maximum tariff fixed by the Karnataka government. The complaint was filed against KSRTC and NWKRTC by Sree Gajanana Motor Transport Company Limited. It had alleged KSRTC was not allowing them to operate on routes where the latter had a monopoly. (with agency inputs)
 
 
 
 
 To rein in contract carriage inter-city buses which fleece passengers during weekends and holidays, the transport department recently proposed fares between Rs 35 and Rs 50 per km for various categories of buses. The proposal is yet to get the government’s nod. However, they will be allowed to revise tariff by 10% during festive season. The department has also decided to publicize the maximum fares that private buses can charge from Bengaluru to various cities, following government approval. At present, many private operators charge over five times the tariff proposed by the department.
 
 
