HYDERABAD: The   registered a criminal case against Telangana   ( ) officials for defrauding the bank and its customers to the tune of ₹8.9 crore.

 On February 7, M Ravinder Reddy, regional manager of TGB (Hyderabad Region –II), lodged a complaint with the CBI alleging that from July 2010 to January 2018, the accused, M Jaipal Reddy, the then cashiercum-clerk of TGB’s   branch in Moinabad, had committed the fraud in collusion with the then bank managers and other staff.
 
 According to the complainant, the accused inflated the face value of term deposit receipts (TDRs) in the system, did not make entries of the physically-issued TDRs in the books of accounts, issued TDRs though he was not authorised to do so and regenerated the paid TDRs and gave them to TGB customers. “The defrauded amounts were transferred online through   to other bank accounts of third parties connected to the fraud,” the complainant alleged.
 
 
 
 
 In addition to Jaipal Reddy, the complainant named, TGB’s then branch managers, J Moses, K Laxmi Narsaiah, K Chandraiah, G Srinivas Rao, present manager, E Rajanna, B Ravikanth, presently working at TGB’s Eliminedu branch, VVJ Rama Rao, retired TGB employee, P Guru Prasad, accountant of TGB at Aziz Nagar branch, M Srinivas Reddy, sweeper at the bank and others.
 
 The fraud came to light when M Ram Reddy, a resident of Aziz Nagar lodged a complaint against Jaipal Reddy to the senior bank officials. An internal investigation was conducted by KBS Raju, chief manager (vigilance), and the interim report was submitted on February 5, 2018. During the probe it was found that ₹8.9-crore defrauded amount was linked to 133 TD and savings bank accounts. Several bank customers told the investigators that the accused had collected amounts from them outside the bank premises and made fake entries in passbooks. He also gave fictitious TDRs to customers giving them false impression their deposit was active, the complainant said.
 
 CBI registered a case against Jaipal Reddy and 10 others under IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act on Monday.
 
