Ludhiana: Khanna police recovered 9,720 capsules of Spasmo Proxyvon, a habit-forming drug, from an ambulance and arrested six drug peddlers, including a fake patient, on Wednesday.

 The accused, all of whom are Jalandhar-based, have been identified as 47-year-old Raj Kumar, a garment store owner from Kishoria Mohalla, 40-year-old Ranjeet Singh, a labourer of Mohalla Maqsoodpura, 27-year-old Pawan Kumar Gunna of Avtar Nagar, 28-year-old Jeanus Masih, a driver of Lambran, 24-year-old Ravi of the same area, and 32-year-old Ishwar Dass, a driver from Labour Colony.
 
 Khanna police said a team led by Sadar SHO inspector Vinod Kumar was checking suspicious persons and vehicles near a mall at Aloud village on GT Road on Wednesday. At 11am, the team saw an ambulance (PB07L-4280) coming from Mandi Gobindgarh side. The SHO said as the driver of the ambulance was using hooter in excess, they got suspicious. The cops stopped the ambulance, which had six persons who identified themselves.
 
 The police officer said the ambulance driver identified himself as Jeanus, whereas Raj Kumar was acting as the patient and lying on a stretcher. He added that the other persons were acting as relatives of the patient and behaving as if they were taking care of him.
 
 On checking the vehicle, the cops recovered seven packets of Spasmo Proxyvon from under the stretcher. Each packet contained 405 strips of Spasmo Proxyvon and each strip had 24 capsules (total 9,720 capsules). Police said the accused were arrested, the vehicle seized, and a case registered under various sections of the NDPS Act.
 
 During questioning, the accused said they had brought the consignment from a “Bhaiya” in Kaliyar Sharif, Uttarakhand, and gave his contact number to the police. They were to sell the contraband at higher rates in Jalandhar. The accused made about three rounds to Kaliyar Sharif to bring the consignment from there.
 
 Cops said the mastermind of the gang, Raj Kumar, had hired services of two ambulance drivers, Jeanus and Ishwar Dass, who parked the van outside a kidney hospital in Jalandhar. The mastermind would give each driver Rs 2,000 and strips of Spasmo Proxyvon.
 
 The SHO said one capsule of Spasmo Proxyvon costs around Rs 6, but Raj Kumar sold it for Rs 20. He added that further investigation was being carried out and more disclosures were expected.
 
 Police said while Raj Kumar has a similar case registered against him at a Jalandhar police station, Pawan was facing two such cases in Patiala and Jalandhar.
 
 
