THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   have registered contempt of court against the parents of 24 young boys, who were subjected to torture as part of ‘chooral muriyal’ ritual held at   on February 22. Office bearers of the temple and festival committee were also booked as the ritual was conducted violating a high court order.

 
 Alappuzha SP S Surendran said the police are in the process of collecting supporting evidence. He said strict action will be initiated against the guilty as the HC specifically directed them not to perform it.
 
 The ritual was conducted under strict surveillance from volunteers of temple managing committee and nobody was allowed to take pictures or videos of the   procession. Media persons were also prevented from reaching near the venue.
 
 The ‘chooral muriyal’ conducted along with ‘Kuthiyottam’ ritual on the famous   day festival inflicts injuries on both sides of midriff of children. The ritual is 250-years-old and the kids are offered to God as a symbolic sacrifice. A golden wire is sewn through the wound and at the conclusion of the procession the wire will be taken out and offered to God as a token of sacrifice of the boy. Eye witnesses said the children will tremble with pain and blood will ooze out from wounds during the final phase of the ritual.
 
 Over the years, the ritual has transformed in such a way that one need not offer his son for the ritual, but, can hire a boy from the neighbourhood. Thus, rich people who usually make the offer used to hire kids from neighbouring poor families by offering huge sums to the parents. Sources said all the 24 kids, under the age of eight years, who took part in the ritual this year did that on behalf of a few NRI devotees.
 
 In the past, child right activists had been trying to put an end to the ritual. The child rights commission had issued an order against the ritual but the temple authorities went ahead with the conduct of the festival ignoring it. Sreedevi Vilasam Hindumatha Convention, a devotee outfit, approached the HC with a prayer to allow the conduct of ‘chooral muriyal’. The HC dismissed their petition on February 20 and asked the police to ensure that the ritual was not held.
 
