The first step to take care of   is to prevent any skin aggregation. With such skin, it can always be a scary prospect to try new products. To avoid any flare-ups, look for skin care products with ingredients suiting your skin type. Look for hypoallergenic ingredients like Vitamin E, aloe vera, coconut oil and chamomile based products. Also, avoid fragrance-based products as they can make your skin suffer. We found five such skin care products that won't irritate your skin. 

 
 
 This gentle cleanser will help to remove skin impurities without stripping skin's moisture and it also feels comfortable on the skin. Infused with sandalwood and aloe vera juice, it has anti-inflammatory properties which help to control redness and flaky skin.
 
  
  
 
 Kama Ayurveda Sensitive skin Cleansing Foam, Rs 795 (50ml)
 
 
 
 This gentle lotion works best for dry and itchy skin. It gets absorbed quickly and makes the skin feel softer and healthier. The fragrance-free lotion is loaded with oat oil and natural shea butter, which help soothe the extremely dry skin. The lotion glides over the skin smoothly and keeps it hydrated for hours. 
 
  
  
 Aveeno Skin Relief Moisturizing Lotion For Sensitive Skin, Rs 1,195 (354ml)
 
 
 
 Removing make-up is not as fun as applying make-up as it can trigger skin irritation. To avoid such skin problems, be gentle on your skin by removing make-up with micellar water. It is made of micelle (tiny balls of cleansing oil molecule), which is suspended in soft water. This water helps in drawing out impurities from the skin like a magnet. This means that you can gently remove your make-up in just a single sweep. 
 
  
  
 
 Bioderma Sensibio H2O Micellar Water, Rs 660 (100ml)
 
 
 
  tends to break out with anything applied to the skin. But do you know that not moisturising your skin can actually make your skin produce more oil? And, that's why you must apply a moisturiser. This hydrating facial gel is infused with aloe vera, wheat extract and floral water, the gel helps to hydrate the skin sans irritation. The light moisturise doesn't aggregate the oily skin and even helps to heal and soothe the skin. 
 
  
  
 
 Forest Essentials Light Hydrating Moisturising Facial Gel, Rs 1,300
 
 
 
 
 This tea tree clay mask works well with acne-prone skin. It calms the skin and leaves a cooling sensation behind while keeping the skin hydrated. The mask also helps to refresh the skin and controls excess sebum production. Keeping acne at bay, this mask doesn't irritate the skin at all.
 
  
  
 
 The Body Shop Tea Tree Skin Clearing Clay Mask, Rs 895
 
