NEW DELHI: To popularise the idea of rainwater harvesting,  , in association with an NGO, opened three “rain centres” two years ago. Today, after a promising beginning and at a time when groundwater resources are at a dire level, these centres are barely functional. 

 
  
 
 “The three centres provided free consultancy and helped people get rainwater harvesting (RWH) systems installed, but we did not build the harvesting units,” a DJB official said. “Now, hardly anyone visits us. We perhaps get one or two visitors in a month, sometimes not even that.”
 
 Ironically, and perhaps indicative of the general disinterest in the capital’s falling   table, RK Puram, Dwarka and Lajpat Naga, where the three centres are located, have logged among the most worrisome drop in groundwater levels. When TOI visited the centre at RK Puram, where the last recorded water level was 44 metres below the ground, it found the unit locked. The lack of importance given to the project was evident in DJB officials being asked to shoulder the responsibilities of promoting RWH, in addition to their official work, once the partner NGO, Forum for Organised Resource Conservation and Enhancement (FORCE), withdrew. 
 
 Jyoti Sharma, founder of FORCE, explained that the water utility did not renew the partnership contract when it lapsed after a year. “These were advisory centres and we charged no money to provide our expertise,” Sharma said.
 
 To increase water table recharge though RWH, the state government has made it mandatory for owners of properties built on an area of over 500 square metres to install water harvesting systems. Non-compliance attracts a penalty 1.5 times the water bill, while those who conform get a 10% rebate on the bill. An additional 5% rebate is offered for installing an effluent treatment plant. It is also mandatory for properties above 100sqm to install these units, though violation does not lead to penalties.
 
 “The policy encourages people to fall in line, but lack of enforcement has failed to deliver. Also, waivers, amnesties and delays in deadline for compliance have hit the scheme,” Sharma said. DJB officials agreed that the number of existing RWH systems is somewhere in the “few thousands” but nowhere “commensurate with the number of eligible households”.
 
 DJB has relaxed troublesome conditions such as using activated charcoal as filtration medium. But experts say more tweaking is required for the idea to catch on. “Many properties in Delhi don’t have the required built-up free area and building a rainwater pit of the specified size could even damage the foundations. A policy should be made at community/bulk user level,” said a FORCE member.
 
 Sudha Sinha, general secretary of  , added the societies in Dwarka were bogged down by having to get annual fitness certificates for their RWH pits. “It takes over Rs 80,000 to get two RWH pits cleaned, so the costs for a cooperative society can go up to Rs 4 lakh,” Sinha pointed out.
 
 
