Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court was full of appreciation for the special CBI court that is trying the former BJP MP from Junagadh, Dinu Bogha  , and six others, for the murder of   activist   murder.

 
 Justice   upheld special CBI judge K M Dave’s suo motu decision to recall six witnesses for re-examination and to clarify the location of mobile phones and the ownership of a vehicle allegedly used in the crime. The HC clarified that under section 311 of the CrPC, the court has powers to suo motu summon witnesses and examine even those witnesses who had not earlier given statements before the police. Turning down the objection of Solanki and his nephew  , to summoning the six witnesses again, the HC said, “It is heartening to note that the presiding officer is actively participating in the trial and is trying to find the truth. The presiding officer is alive to the fact that witnesses, more particularly, the eyewitnesses have turned hostile and thereby the prosecution has not been able to lead substantial direct evidence.”The case has a chequered history. Most of the witnesses turned hostile during the trial and some even complained that they were pressured. The CBI and the court did not do anything about this. The HC lambasted the court and the probe agency for their inaction and ordered a fresh trial. The HC also ordered that a new judge preside over the fresh trial. A Supreme Court later restricted the re-trial to the re-examination of 26 witnesses.The CBI court’s summoning of six witnesses, including former investigator and IPS officer Raghavendra Vatsa, led the Solankis to oppose the court order. They argued that the CBI court had gone beyond the SC mandate and it could not recall the six witnesses without the SC’s permission.The HC brushed aside Solanki’s arguments and said that of the 26 witnesses who were re-examined, 25 had again turned hostile. In such circumstances, the judge’s focus on knowing the tower location of mobiles and the CDR may “go a long way in going to the root of the matter, or rather, shall be helpful to the trial court to appreciate the circumstantial evidence on record”.
 
 The HC also said that the SC’s order for re-examination of 26 witnesses should not be construed as restricting the trial court to re-examine only those witnesses. The court has powers to summon witnesses on its own for the purpose of clarification and to know more from them.
 
 
