TRICHY: After the state government deciding to regularise ad hoc teachers in government arts colleges by conducting a special exam,   ( ) is contemplating the same for the guest faculty in its constituent colleges.

 The state government’s decision on Wednesday paved way for regularisation of service for 3,544 ad hoc teachers who are currently working on consolidated pay in 91 government arts colleges across the state. However, there wasn’t any mention on the similar ad hoc teachers in the constituent colleges run by 10 state run arts and science universities. There are a total of 361 ad hoc teachers in the constituent colleges under BDU on consolidated pay up to Rs 15000.
 
 “Now that the state government has taken a policy decision to regularise ad hoc teachers in government arts colleges, we will follow suit by taking steps to regularise ad hoc teachers working in our constituent colleges,” said Bharathidasan University vice chancellor   while speaking to TOI over phone.
 
 “In fact we have already taken steps in this regard, said the VC, by redesignating ad hoc teachers as assistant professors who were so far deemed as guest faculty,” he said. As per the   norms, teachers with a designation of assistant professors and above were authorised to guide PhD scholars. Despite holding PhD and relevant experience to guide research scholars, ad hoc teachers were not allowed guide ship as they were not designated as assistant professor. The university, by recognising them as assistant professors has made them eligible to guide PhD scholars.
 
 The decision has come after consistent demand from the senate members, said one of the syndicate members of the university, S Sivaramakrishnan. Besides guiding PhD scholars, their experience as assistant professor would be taken into consideration during the appointment of teachers into government colleges through teachers recruitment board. On the revision of salaries of the ad hoc teachers, the VC said that the decision will be taken after implementation of 7th pay commission.
 
 
