Panaji: Until the government frames rules for the new Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, benefits of government schemes will not reach children and adults with multiple disabilities, including deafblindness, said Fr Maverick Fernandes, director of Caritas, an NGO working for the rights of   people.

 Deafblindness is among the new disabilities recognised under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. While the state government has notified the act in November, 2017, it is yet to notify the rules. Under the new act that replaced the Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995, the categories of disabilities have increased three-fold (from seven to 21).
 
 “Although schemes exist, these cannot be implemented for children and adults under the newly recognized disabilities, unless the rules are framed,” Fernandes said, calling for effective implementation of the act in state policies.
 
 Since 2012, Caritas has been offering home-based services to 43 children and adults who are deafblind. At present, it has five educators who assist children in special education, including improving their communication skills.
 
  They also help children with medical facilities, including physiotherapy, speech therapy and access to a dietician and admission to a regular school.
 
 A new centre for the deafblind will be opened in Saligao where all therapies, including vocational therapies, will be provided on a regular basis, under a single roof, said Fernandes, while talking to reporters on the sidelines of a two-day workshop for early intervention needs of deafblind children for parents, funded by Hauns Foundation. 
 
 Sheela Sinha, a senior professional in the field of deadblindness, said it is more important to educate and train parents as they have a huge potential to follow up with their children’s progress at home. 
 
 She provided them with skills to cope with frustration and ensure that they and their children lead more productive lives.
 
 Senior special educator Sabyasachi Deb said, “Intervention is more effective if it is followed up at home.”
 
 Maya Naik, parent of a deafblind child, said seats reserved in public transport are often occupies by seats reserved for persons with disabilities. Preference should be given to children with disabilities in hospitals too, Naik added. 
 
 
