KOLKATA: Senior officers from Lalbazar and the Bidhannagar Commissionerate went back to their drawing boards and spent the better part of Sunday chalking out a slew of changes in traffic planning and infrastructure upgrade to make EM Bypass safer for commuters as well as pedestrians. The finer details will be discussed at length at a joint meet at Chingrighata on Monday.

 
 The meeting, which includes inspection of the accident site, will be attended by officers of Kolkata Police and Bidhannagar Commissionerate, officials of  , urban development department,   and MLA Sujit Bose.
 
 As per the plan, the cops have proposed two foot overbridges, a subway at Chingrighata crossing, channeliser for pedestrian movement, separate lane for cyclists, expansion of pavement, shifting of traffic signal posts and minor changes in traffic signalling system.
 
  
  
 
 “We have our set of proposed plans ready and would sit in a meeting with officials of other departments on Monday to consolidate the plans. We have already started work on making the channeliser with guardrails and it will be in place by Monday itself. The other propositions need to be finalised in Monday’s meet,” said Sumit  , deputy commissioner (traffic) of Kolkata Police.
 
 The traffic management is taking a two-pronged approach to tackle pedestrian movement at Chingrighata. Cops have decided to do away with the “free left” lane from EM Bypass to the road towards Nicco Park. “Since there is not much of traffic on the lane off E M Bypass to Sukantanagar, the lane was kept free of traffic signal. But after the accident, we have decided to do away with the free left,” said Kumar.
 
 The short-term plan also involves setting up channelisers using spring posts where cyclists and pedestrians would be segregated.”
 
 As long-term measures, cops have proposed two overbridges — one from Chaulpatty Road to   and another from Captain   to Chingrihata flyover. “We have to keep in mind the Metro project. Unless they finalise their alignment, overbridges cannot be put up here,” an officer said.
 
 The proposal also involves construction of a subway for pedestrians. “The plan was floated in 2016 when it was decided that the underpass would connect Chaulpatty Road and Sukantanagar, with another exit towards Captain Bheri. But a study revealed that since the area was close to the canal it was not fit for an underpass. We will float the plan again,” said the officer.
 
