CHANDIGARH: As many as three cases of  , vehicle theft, and other theft cases take place on an average every day in the city. This is what   records say as according to the data, a total of 428 such cases have been recorded in the first 135 days of this year.

  
  
 
 Data shows 242 cases of vehicle-lifting, 104 thefts and 82 cases of burglaries have been reported in 16 police stations across city from January 1 to May 15. Hence, two vehicles are being stolen from the city per day by the auto-lifters.
 
 Some big cases of thefts in the city are still lying unsolved. However, police have also busted auto-lifter gangs and recovered stolen vehicles from them.
 
 Data of last three years show that vehicle thefts and burglaries have been increasing with each passing year.
 
 In 2015, the city recorded 601 vehicle lifting cases from different parts of the city, 383 cases of thefts and 102 cases of burglaries were also registered in that year.
 
 In 2016, auto-lifters had stolen 616 vehicles from city and 302 cases of thefts were recorded. However, the figure of burglaries rose to 141 in that year. 
 
 In 2017, a total of 909 two-wheelers and four-wheelers were lifted from the city. Cases of burglaries also reached to 181. As many as 313 cases of other thefts were also reported at 16 police stations of the city last year.
 
 According to senior police officers, they have increased night-checking and patrolling of police control room (PCR) vans in the residential areas of the city. However, residents must take some precautionary measures before going out of the city, they said. 
 
 According to cops, cases of burglaries and thefts increase during summer season when people generally go out of station for summer vacations. They usually update their locations and pictures on social media sending out signals to the miscreants that their house is empty. Cops said people must not reveal the details of their journeys and locations on social media for their own safety purposes.
 
 Police said people should keep their jewellery, cash and other valuable items in the houses of their relatives or in bank lockers before leaving for vacations. With this, their valuable items will remain safe even if the thieves or burglars strike their home in their absence.
 
 
