GURUGRAM: The district administration has roped in 50  , who were earlier running illegal clinics in Gurugram, to work as informers to help identify and arrest those involved in prenatal sex determination and  . 

 After the authorities started taking steps against illegal clinics, around 50 quacks approached a Gurugram-based NGO associated with the district’s  , expressing their desire to take a course in first aid and home nursing. The Red Cross staff then started counselling them but it turned out that they were only trying to procure a certificate related to medicines to validate their activities. 
 
 
  
 
 However, instead of handing them over to the authorities, the Red Cross decided to reform them and struck a deal with them. The quacks were asked to work as informers for the system.
 
 Some of these quacks were even involved in prenatal sex determination earlier but had been fortunate enough to dodge the authorities. A 33-year-old quack-turned-informer, who runs a diagnostic centre in the district, said that people who sought sex determination tests were living in colonies around them. “The nexus is simple. A pregnant woman approaches a quack who refers her to a tout. She is taken to a doctor or health worker or diagnostic centre for an ultrasound. Later, she is taken to a doctor or a quack for medical termination of pregnancy.”
 
 In Gurugram, at least a dozen quacks have been arrested in the past two years.
 
 Speaking to TOI, a 32-year-old quack-turned-informer said, “I was running a clinic for seven years as a ‘Bengali doctor’ but that is illegal. So, this course seemed to offer a safe passage.” 
 
 Another 38-year-old quack-turned-informer, who was running a clinic in Gurugram for 10 years, said, “We have children to look after and rents to pay. I was afraid that the cops would arrest us and wanted a way out.”
 
 These quack-turned-informers have handed over their Aadhaar cards and other identity proofs to the district officials. They are also getting lessons in handling spy cams, the PCPNDT and MTP Acts and the course they had originally applied for. Their identities would not be disclosed, said officials.
 
 According to these quacks, while some people would come to them seeking tests to determine if they were going to have a male child, a high number of unwed mothers also used their services for aborting unwanted pregnancies. 
 
 “Abortions and dumping fetus in garbage bins, forest areas and construction sites is a common way to get rid of unwanted pregnancies. It has been restricted due to vigilance but it is a huge nexus,” said another quack-turned-informer. 
 
 Another revealed that some people used mortuary vans to ferry such women to clinics for sex determination and female feticide to avoid suspicions.
 
 “According to our estimate, there are nearly 500 quacks in the city. They are part of the underbelly but now, some of them have been brought under one umbrella. Our aim is not to put everyone in jail but to stop any illegal activity. In a way, these 50 quacks have been reformed because we have their details and they would not do any illegal health consultation now,” said Shyam Sunder, secretary, Red Cross, Gurugram. 
 
 These quack-turned-informers will not get any remuneration and have to earn a living with their first aid and home nursing skills. However, they will get Rs 1 lakh per case for giving a tip-off or assisting in a successful raid. 
 
 “We are now social workers, not quacks. It feels nice to do some good,” said a 34-year-old quack-turned-informer, who ran a clinic in Laxman Vihar for 11 years.
 
 
