Mumbai: Traders predominantly carried forward bearish positions into the February derivatives series on expiry of the January contracts on Thursday, indicating growing skepticism about the market’s prospects after the recent sharp run-up ahead of the   on February 1.

 Market-wide rollovers stood at 82% compared to average of 84% in the last three derivatives series.   futures witnessed rollovers of 65% compared to average of 69% in the last three expiries.
 
 The January series was one where indices crossed several milestones during the month, helped by strength in global   and expectation that the Union Budget will see the government announcing steps to boost the rural economy. The   hit record high of 36268.19 on Wednesday, while Nifty hit an alltime high of 11110.10 on the same day. However, the record-breaking run resulted in a rise in  . The VIX, also known as the fear index, hit a 14-month high of 18.5 on Wednesday though it fell 3% to close at 17.51 on Thursday.
 
 The falling cost of carrying forward positions to the February series showed the mood is cautious. Derivative analysts said the confidence in the market was tentative ahead of the key events. The roll cost for Nifty was -6 basis points compared to average of 35 bps in the last three expiries, said Nirmal Bang in a note.
 
 “Roll cost was subdued through the expiry week which indicates participants rolled over positions with caution ahead of the Budget and RBI   meeting,” said Yogesh Radke, head of alternative and quantitative research at Edelweiss Securities “The market wide futures   in value terms is highest ever at ?1.65 lakh crore, which is also a concern as any disappointment in the Budget can lead to cascading effect in the market,” said Radke.
 
 Roll cost is the cost that people are ready to pay to carry forward their positions to the next derivatives series.
 
 “The roll spread in the Nifty turned negative from 25 points on the expiry day, which shows rollover of short positions in the index. Sustainability of the Nifty above 11000 post the Budget should lead to short covering in the index,” said Amit Gupta, head of derivatives at ICICIdirect.
 
 Nifty gained 5.65% in the January derivatives series while Sensex gained 6.5% in the January derivatives series, which expired on Thursday. Snapping a gaining streak of six consecutive sessions, the Nifty ended down 16.35 points or 0.15% at 11069.65 and the Sensex ended down 111.20 points or 0.3% at 36050.44.
 
 The highest concentration among Nifty call options expiring in February is at 12000 strike while among put options it is at 10500 strike.
 
 Rishi Kohli, MD, ProAlpha Systematic Capital Advisors said the negative rollover cost indicates limited upside in the short term.
 
 “We could see some volatility, but I don’t see risk of a sharp decline,” said Kohli.
 
