It’s confirmed!   will play the leading lady in Prabhas’s next, a Telugu-Hindi bilingual helmed by  . The former beauty queen, who has films with superstars   and Jr NTR in the offing feels that 2018 will be her year of reckoning in Tollywood. “I’m on cloud nine to have films with three of the biggest superstars of Tollywood. And what’s more, they are all fabulous scripts and all the three characters I’m playing are completely different from each other. There’s a great scope to perform in each film so as an actor, I couldn’t ask for more,” she says excitedly.
Talking about the film she adds, “All I can reveal right now is that it’s a love story with a nice message and we’ll start shooting for it in July.” 
 The Oka Laila Kosam actress is going to start shooting for NTR’s next first though. “Mahesh Babu is currently busy with  , so I’ll start shooting for NTR’s film first. I can’t wait to start shooting because I’m going to be working with directors like Vamsi Paidipally and Trivikram who are great at what they do. It will be a good push for me as an actor and help me perform even better,” she says, beaming. 
 Besides the three big-ticket ventures, she is also doing a ‘special song’ in Ram Charan’s Rangasthalam. Looks like Pooja, who made a comeback to Tollywood after a three-year hiatus with   last year, is poised to become the most sought-after actress in the industry. “Luck is when opportunity meets hard work and I have been working really hard to be where I am today. Opportunities have been coming my way and I am just 
 grabbing them and doing my best. There was a time when I was bound by contracts and was busy with other projects, but now, I have the time to focus on Tollywood and do films I like,” reveals Pooja. 
 The actress seems to be focussing on improving her Telugu now. “I can understand Telugu and can speak a little bit as well. It’s just that I tend to get shy to speak in Telugu when I’m in front of people. I’m very good at picking up languages and I’m sure I’ll be able to get even better once I start shooting,” she says, signing off.
 
