Ludhiana: Nirdosh School for Special Children on Thursday organised an event to welcome fbb Colors Femina Miss India Punjab, 2018, Anna Kler and the winner of Miss Femina Helene Curtis 1971, Neelam Dhanda. At the occasion, the children of the school performed a dance sequence for the guests. Both — Anna and Neelam — interacted with the students of various classes and lauded the efforts of the school and its management.

 “Self-defence programs should be organised in education institutes to enable women to tackle any untoward incident,” said city-based beauty pageant winner, Anna Kler (24). She added, “It has been great watching these special children perform in such a wonderful way. 
 
 Anna, who would be appearing for the final round of the Miss India, 2018, said that it was her dream to work with children. She said that she was also working with the kids of Ludhiana jail’s inmates. “This helped me earn the title ‘Rajnigandha Pearls Miss Goodness Ambassador’ at fbb Colors Femina Miss India Punjab, 2018. “Whenever I get free time from my schedule I go to Ludhiana Central Jail to meet these children to help them stay motivated to do something special in life. I also try my best to provide them with education material along with colourful dresses to lift up their spirits.” 
 
 Neelam, who also runs a boutique at Pakhowal Road, congratulated Anna and hoped her to win. “The competition in this domain has increased manifold,” Neelam said.
 
 Meanwhile, chairperson of the school Poonam Bindra said that the children of the school would greatly benefit from the interactions they had with the two celebrities. “This would help them gain the confidence they need to know the outside world,” Bindra added.
 
 Anna took up shooting since an early age and went on to make it to the national level in 2012. She also qualified to represent India in the Commonwealth Games but after left for the US for higher studies, she added. 
 
 pics - vishal
 
 Anna Kler along with Neelam Dhanda graced the occasion with their presence at Nirdosh special children school function on Thursday here
 
 
