LUDHIANA: Four persons of a family — including a three-and-a-half-year-old girl — received burn injuries early on Tuesday morning, when fire broke out in their house in Jaswant Nagar near Bindra Colony, New Shivpuri. The neighbours and other people in the colony helped family members come out of the fire that had engulfed the house. The injured are admitted in   and Hospital (CMCH) for treatment.

 The fire brigade refused to disclose reasons behind the incident, but relatives of the injured family members claimed it was due to a short circuit. The injured have been identified as Lata Bhargav (55), Ravinder Bhargav (33), Nidhi Bhargav (32), and   (3.5). According to CMCH, Ravinder received 15% burn injuries, while Nidhi, Navya, and Lata received 30% burn injuries each.
 
 Rajinder Kumar, one of Lata’s relatives, revealed that they had a computerized embroidery business on the ground floor of the house, while they lived on the first floor. He said the fire had started from the ground floor, and family members came to know about the fire spreading at around 3.30am, after which they first tried to reach the main gate. In this attempt, they received burn injuries on their face, legs, and hands, but when they could not come out, they rushed towards the terrace on the second floor and started screaming for help.
 
 “On hearing their screams, the family in the adjoining house reached for their help, by putting a ladder on their terrace and helping them reach the adjoining terrace,” he said, adding that other people gathered in the area started spilling water on the fire to control the situation.
 
 Meanwhile, fire officials claimed they had controlled the fire in less than an hour, but family members had received burn injuries by then. The sub-fire officer Srishti Nath said they received a call at the control room around 4.17am, and one fire tender was rushed from Sunder Nagar fire station to douse the fire, but by the time they reached the spot, the family was already sent to CMCH for treatment. He said it was difficult to say anything regarding the exact reasons behind the incident. In the fire, the material stored in the house, machinery, and one bike was gutted.
 
 
