From taking Indian classical music to global platforms to experiencing the thrill of live concerts and winning recognition the world over, tabla maestro   forayed into films a while ago, and there too, plays his part there with equal élan. In a conversation with CT, he talks about his newest film Khajoor Pe Atke’s music, other films in the pipeline, innovative independent projects, life beyond work and how he drums up success each time. Excerpts…

 My reply to your question would be, ‘What makes Bickram Ghosh’s music different?’. I don’t make run-of-the-mill music for every other film. I’m selective with my projects, be it in Hindi or Bangla, and they have a signature sound. There’s Jal with Sonu Nigam that was in Oscar contention. You can’t reach there with a typical Bollywood composition. I have scored for films with diverse requirements. The reason I am able to cater to all is primarily because I use extremely light sounds. In an era of programmed sounds, I use live components. Also, I believe sound is an emotion. So, it’s bound to have the modulations in its graph. Like when your emotions run deep, when they are high, when you feel low. Same goes for sound. When such nuances are missing, the emotional content of the sound suffers. I use sounds of sarangi, tabla, harmonium, dholak, sitar, shehnai, ektara, mridangam, manjeera and blend them with western instruments. Nowadays, comedies are mostly slapstick, but when I heard Khajoor Pe Atke’s script, I was floored. That’s when I thought I can do crazy stuff with the music in the film. So, for your question, what is actually different is that the sounds in the film add to the comic element in it. More precisely, each character is well-defined by a background sound and whenever they are on screen, you will associate them with that particular sound. I used dholak in the film.
 
 Let’s first segregate the songs from the background score. If it’s the background score, my influences are very international. I am not a big fan of background scores in the Hindi or Bengali film industry. I think it misses the emotional quotient and it’s not subtle. In  , even though there are these subtleties, there’s a certain over-the-top sound because it is an over-the-top tragi-comedy. There are loud emotions and expressions in the film. Though my sensibilities are more attuned to western music, I have used a lot of Indian instruments in this film because the characters are small-town people and they require an earthy flavour. There’s juxtaposition of sound with a harmonium playing in the background for a small-town guy and an electric guitar as a background sound to an urban man. That’s the fusion bit with intercultural influences but the thought process is more international.
 
 Frankly, comedy is way tougher than doing a suspense film or any other genre. If you are just putting in funny sounds in the background, then comedy is easy. But if you are using sound intelligently along with the storytelling, then it’s a different task. In comedy you have to actually score over the dialogues. But you can’t use sound that will drown the voices on screen. It has to be something mellifluous, but then, mellifluous is not considered comic. That’s the challenge.
 
 There’s Girish Malik’s film Band of Maharajas. I’m also acting in the film. I have completed Suman Ghosh’s Basu Paribar in Bangla. There’s Arindam’s (Sil) next film Byomkesh Gotro. Then Suman’s next Mi Amor. There are four Bangla films and two Hindi films I’m working on right now. In the independent music space, I’m working on a very interesting project with Sonu. It’s untitled but it’s basically a retro Bollywood project. Sonu and I are recreating songs from the ’40s, ’50s and ’60s. Sonu is singing and George Brooks, a renowned American saxophonist, is playing the saxophone. We have a wishlist. We want to include music greats like Pt Hariprasad Chaurasia. There will be 50 songs eventually. Then there are a whole bunch of albums I’m trying to finish. There’s one project with   where I’ve done three songs out of the seven. Travel and concerts are taking up a lot of my time. So, there’s a lot on the plate (smiles).
 
 
 I do. Even if there’s a crazy schedule, I somehow manage to take a few days off. That’s my priority. When my elder son was growing up, I wasn’t around much because of work. But now, I don’t want to miss watching the younger one grow up. I don’t go on long tours now. Also, because I’m doing a lot of film work, it demands that I stay here longer. So, it’s a mix-and-match of reasons. 
 
 
 It’s Jaya (Seal Ghosh). She’s got a good ear for music. She listens and then reacts spontaneously. There’s a discussion, a give and take. Whether it’s my music, her acting or her dance, we discuss our craft a lot.
 
 I have been telling younger people that to ace fusion you have to master at least one form of music. Then, understanding the nuances of other forms become easy. Like for me, it’s tabla. My roots are in Indian classical music. Even when you are fusing music, if you have a good background you are more conscious of the mix. A lot of the music made now doesn’t touch the heart. The ability to do that comes from years and years of learning. A lot of youngsters have passion for music but they don’t learn enough. If you don’t do that, you can’t sustain it. For 30 years now, I have sustained because of my knowledge of Indian classical music.
 
 Until now, most of my awards were for being a musician or a collaborator. My first film award was for Jal, which Sonu and I shared. The state film award in 2017 was for the work that I have done in Bengali films. It was a good feeling because in Bangla now, there’s a substantial body of work. When I was receiving the award, the CM said, “Ebar film er award gulo o nebe?”. These awards give you validation that your work as a music composer is appreciated.
 
 I wouldn’t want to work on whatever comes my way. I want to choose my work well and create a body of work that I’m proud of. There’s also a lot of trust in Arindam’s filmmaking. There’s a certain class, a signature. I want to leave behind a legacy and for that I need projects of that level.
 
 
 To be honest, I truly feel that I’m the luckiest musician on earth. I wanted to be a tabla player, I got to play with  . I wanted to be a fusion artiste, I’ve got the highest-selling fusion albums in the country. I wanted to do film music, I’ve done that successfully too. I’ve so many dreams and ambitions. The cosmos could have said no. I could’ve been an unsuccessful musician. But my biggest strength is that I can juggle work. The cosmos is giving me good opportunities to dabble at different projects.
 
 That’s a good question because they are two absolutely different things. You improvise in live shows where you are creating in the moment, synchronising with other musicians, challenging yourself and taking risks. It might fall flat. You get audience reaction and that’s a different high. And formal compositions are when you compose for albums or score for cinema. Then the challenge is to process the craft. I’m a hands-on musician so it’s improvisation all the way for me.
 
 
