NOIDA: Five months after the death of a student from Manipur, who was initially found unconscious outside the venue of a concert in Greater Noida, the Uttar Pradesh government has recommended a   inquiry into his death.

 The decision to hand over the case to the agency came after a request from Manipur chief minister  , who had been facing criticism over alleged inaction in probing Pravish Chanam’s death.
 
 The body of Pravish (22) was found with injury marks in Noida’s Nithari a day after he attended the Chainsmokers concert on September 8 in Greater Noida. 
 
 Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath wrote to his Manipur counterpart saying the case had been handed over to the CBI. Adityanath referred to Singh’s letter on December 15 last year where he had sought an impartial probe and mentioned how the death had created a panic among people from the northeast in UP.
 
 Pravish, a BA student, had arrived in Delhi on September 7 and stayed at a friend’s place in Safdarjung. Pravish and Ashok, with whom he had put up, decided to attend the music concert at Expo Centre the next day along with two others — Sachin and   Karam. All four belonged to Manipur.
 
 At the concert venue, Pravish, Sachin and Teresa gave their mobile phones to Ashok and decided to meet at Gate 3 once the programme was over. The three were partying nearby when Pravish reportedly strayed away from the group, possibly under the influence of alcohol.
 
 Security guards had found Pravish unconscious some distance away and had taken him to the medical centre, where he was registered as “unknown” as he was not in a position to mention his name. The student was referred to the district hospital.
 
 After the concert, Pravish’s friends failed to locate him and informed his brother Ravikant the next day. A missing complaint was lodged at Knowledge Park police station on September 9, but the police allegedly did little to trace the student.
 
 Doctors at the district hospital said Pravish had shown symptoms of excessive drinking and suffered from frequent fits. He had some injury marks on his legs.
 
 The next morning, Pravish apparently left the hospital without informing anyone. He was found lying near Nihari village in the evening. The student was taken to the hospital, where was declared brought dead.
 
 Pravish’s family had alleged murder, pointing out that the post-mortem report had stated death because of shock and haemorrhage from head injuries. 
 
 Abhinandan, circle officer-1, said the police had investigated the case. “We had scanned CCTV footage and questioned local people. But we did not find concrete evidence,” he said.
 
 The police suspect Pravish had been hit by a speeding vehicle after he had left the hospital. There were, however, allegations of racial attacks on the student.
 
 Chinglen Khumukcham, the convener of the Delhi Northeast Forum for International Solidarity, welcomed the move. 
 
 “It took five months for the government to recommend the CBI probe. This shows the lack of concern for Northeast people. We will follow the matter.”
 
 Pravish’s father works with the agriculture department and his mother is a teacher in Manipur.
 
 
