In the blur of news coming out of Washington, the legal maneuvers involving a pornographic film actress who says she had an affair with US President   and the president’s lawyer who paid her hush money may seem like just another reality-show-ready spectacle at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.

 
 But the lawsuit she filed this week, seeking to break a 2016 agreement to keep silent in return for a $130,000 payout, opens what could be a precarious new legal front for a   already beset by the investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller.
 
 As any longtime legal hand in the capital remembers well, it was a sexual harassment lawsuit brought by an Arkansas state employee, Paula Jones, against   that led to his impeachment for lying about his affair with  .
 
 The case of the adult film actress, Stephanie Clifford, who uses the stage name  , may not get past even the first considerable obstacles. But if her court case proceeds, Trump and his longtime personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, may have to testify in depositions, several lawyers said in interviews Thursday. Clifford’s suit could also provide evidence of campaign spending violations, which would bolster a pending Federal Election Commission complaint against Trump’s campaign.
 
 The potential outcomes of the lawsuit and legal wrangling took on new urgency this week after reports that Cohen had won an emergency temporary restraining order from an arbitrator, barring Clifford from speaking out now, a measure that Clifford’s lawyer, Michael J. Avenatti, declared invalid.
 
 Clifford’s agreement with Cohen stipulated that they would resolve disputes in confidential arbitration proceedings. Assuming she does not blink — and her lawyer has said she won’t — it will fall to a judge in Los Angeles, where the suit was filed, to decide whether to compel Clifford to return to arbitration or allow the case to go forward in court, where Cohen and Trump could find themselves open to the discovery process, during which both sides share documents and information.
 
 “A lawsuit opens the door, and judges almost always allow for a plaintiff to have a fishing expedition,” said Robert S. Bennett, the Washington lawyer who represented Clinton in the Paula Jones case. The questions could include, “Have you paid other people money?” he said.
 
 David A. Super, a law professor at Georgetown University, said the lawsuit Clifford filed Tuesday centered on a limited contract law matter, but he noted that it also specifically stated that Clifford would amend her complaint in the future to add the names of people who she said participated in wrongdoing with Trump and Cohen.
 
 He suggested that Clifford and her lawyer might be starting with a narrow argument aimed at getting the contract declared invalid, perhaps intending to broaden it later to include claims that Trump and Cohen coerced her into silence. “If that happened,” he said, “they certainly could seek to depose Trump.”
 
 And in that case, he said, “I can certainly imagine how it might get broader. And if it did, the wide array of Trump’s sexual interactions could be addressed, just as the wide array of Clinton’s sexual interactions was addressed in the Paula Jones case deposition.”
 
 Getting into a public court setting, however, is a big hurdle.
 
 “If the parties agreed to binding arbitration, they have waived their right to file a lawsuit,” said H. Christopher Bartolomucci, a law partner at Kirkland & Ellis in Washington who previously worked in the White House as associate counsel to President George W. Bush. Clifford’s signature on the contract, and acceptance of the money, could count as a clear sign of agreement.
 
 But other legal experts were struck by the sweeping nature of the nondisclosure agreement Clifford signed, and expressed skepticism that it would hold up in court. Beyond the circumstances of the alleged sexual relationship, the agreement barred her from doing anything, even indirectly, to “publicly disparage” Trump.
 
 “It actually presents a relatively clean issue for the court,” said Lawrence M. Noble, a former top lawyer at the Federal Election Commission who is now the general counsel for the Campaign Legal Center, a watchdog group. “What she signed amounts to a gag order, and she has rights if this agreement is not found to be valid.”
 
 Avenatti is building his case on what he calls “sloppy” lawyering by Cohen, dating to October 2016 when Cohen negotiated the agreement for Clifford’s silence. Clifford has claimed that she met Trump at a celebrity golf tournament in 2006 and began a relationship that included sex and promises from Trump to get her on his NBC show “The Apprentice” and to give her a condominium. A close friend of hers, Keith Munyon, confirmed several of those details in an interview this week, saying he heard Trump offer her the apartment when Clifford invited him to eavesdrop on the conversation. Trump has denied the affair.
 
 Avenatti’s argument hinges on a blank signature line by the alias used for Trump, David Dennison, on the contract. Clifford, identified as “Peggy Peterson,” and Cohen, representing the shell company he used to facilitate the payment, both signed the document. Avenatti argues that because Trump did not sign it himself, the agreement is invalid — a point Super, the Georgetown professor, basically agreed with and Noble said might have merit.
 
 The initial contract is not confined to the commitments Clifford makes to Trump — to never speak of their affair and to relinquish any material she might have relating to him, like emails, photos and video. It also includes commitments Trump makes to her, such as a promise not to take any legal action against her for her claims.
 
 So, Avenatti argues, Cohen is improperly acting as a stand-in for Trump as he seeks to enforce the deal, including the provision he cited in bringing the temporary restraining order.
 
 
 
 
