AHMEDABAD: Temperatures have gone past the 40°C mark early in April. And for those who venture out, the prospect of finding refuge under the shade of a tree has been shrinking. 

 Despite the campaigns of the   ( ), the number of trees planted in the city has declined by 40% in barely a year.
 
 Statistics provided by the AMC indicate that 1.09 lakh trees were planted in 2016-17. 
 
 The number came down to 64,912 trees in 2017-18. Moreover, the number of trees cut down has risen, on an average, by 42% in the same period. 
 
 Against 2,630 trees cut in 2016-17, 3,771 trees were cut in 2017-18.
 
 In fact, the number of trees that were chopped has more than doubled since 2015-16. Some 1,744 trees were cut in 2015-16. 
 
 “Cutting of trees is undertaken for road widening, construction development, residential or commercial schemes, infrastructure projects such as metro,” said a senior official of the AMC on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Amid the surge in felling of trees, experts have called for town planners to be sensitive to ensure that the city does not pay for development with its lungs. “Further cutting down of trees is being planned for road widening at various parts of the city,” said Madhu Menon, an environment educator.
 
  
  “If one is willing to bring about a change, planning can always be more sensitive to saving trees so that the city does not pay a steep environmental cost for building a road.”
 
 The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has been implementing the Green Action Plan for the past three years to encourage public participation in increasing the green cover. “We had distributed 50,000 saplings of tulsi in 2016 and other saplings in the previous years,” said a senior official of the parks and gardens department of the civic body.
 
  Despite the massive outreach programmes of the civic body, the average survival rate of these trees over the past three years has been 42%. 
 
 “Public participation is important for the survival of trees,” said Dr Rajal Thaker, a professor at Shardaben Hospital, who has been making a personal effort to help save the trees. 
 
 “It is not the responsibility of the civic body alone,” Thaker said. “Awareness among people is needed and they should be sensitive and must make an effort to not just plant trees but also to ensure their survival.”
 
 
 
 
