MYSURU: Disturbed by reports of the theft of two car stereos, and movement of a few suspicious elements, two   in   decided to install as many as 16 closed circuit television ( ) cameras on Gokulam 9, 9A and 10th main roads – a venture made possible through crowd-funding. This proactive public   has helped relax the jangled nerves of residents, who were perturbed by the recent incidents of robbery in the locality.

 The initiative started to take shape in November last year, when  , an MBA graduate and Vinay Vaidyanathan, a film director based in Gokulam, were prompted into thinking what they could do to curb crime in their locality. “The theft of two car stereos made us think of doing something. Though police initiated an inquiry into the incidents, they were unable to nab the culprits since there was no video footage. That is when we decided to do something special,” the duo said.
 
 When the duo suggested the idea of installing 16   on the three streets in the area – 9, 9A and 10th main roads – most residents voiced their support to the plan. “A few of them were apprehensive. But the other residents stepped forward and paid Rs 6,000 each. With the amount collected from all residents, we managed to install 16 cameras, which have been functioning since January,” said Karthikraj.
 
 The monitoring screen for these cameras has been set up at Karthikraj’s house. “The area in front of nearly 30 houses on these three streets is covered by the CCTV cameras.”
 
 Raju, a retired employee of the Mysuru City Corporation and resident on 9A   in Gokulam, said that the installation of the CCTV cameras had made the locals feel a lot more secure. “Only a few residents did not agree. However, majority of the residents extended their support and paid the stipulated amount. It has turned out to be beneficial to all,” he said.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Mysuru, Vikram Amathe told TOI, “These cameras will help is both crime prevention and detention. They are both very important tasks. If miscreants try to escape after a crime, we can use the CCTV footage as evidence.”
 
 
