CHANDIGARH: More than five months after the UT administration lifted the four-year-old embargo on conversion of leasehold properties into  , the UT estate office is yet to receive any application for conversion. Amidst presence of   workers at the UT Guest House, local Member of Parliament (MP)   on August 18, 2017, made the announcement of resumption of conversion. Kher’s rivals had termed it a mere attempt to score political points.

 There are around 50,000 residential properties, including group housing societies, in the city which have been allotted by the administration on lease of 99 years to the allottees.
 
 High rates of conversion fixed by the administration is cited to be the main reason for the lack of response from city residents, who had pressed the administration for lifting the ban imposed in 2013.
 
  
  
 
 The administration recently calculated conversion charges of flats allotted by Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) and estate office on a pro-rata basis (proportionate allocation according to share). For plotted houses, residents would have to pay conversion charges to be calculated as per the formula prescribed in the Chandigarh Conversion of Residential Leasehold Land Tenure into Freehold Land Tenure Rules, 1996. Earlier, the administration was charging only Rs 1,710 per square yard for plotted houses.
 
 For a plot measuring 150 square yards, residents earlier had to pay Rs 8,383 as conversion charges, which has now gone up to Rs 3 lakh. In case of 500 square yard plots, owners would have to shell out conversion charge of Rs 84.4 lakh, which was earlier only Rs 69,178. For economically weaker section (EWS) category flats, the owners would not be charged anything. Owners of the low income group (LIG) flats would have to shell out Rs 2.11 lakh for conversion. Earlier, the rate of LIG flats was Rs 4,300.
 
 Terming it a cruel joke, Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairman   Bittu said, “Residents fought for resumption of conversion of leasehold properties into freehold. The lifting of the ban has failed to benefit residents, courtesy high conversion rates.” He said the revised conversion rates are beyond the reach of residents.
 
 Talking to TOI, assistant estate office Manoj Khattri confirmed they are yet to receive application for conversion of leasehold property to freehold.
 
 
