RAJKOT: In June 2016, Shiyal Beyt, an island located opposite Port Pipavav, got electricity for the first time after Independence.

 Now, this island with a population of nearly 15,000 people, will get piped drinking water for the first time. The   ( ) will undertake extra engineering efforts to lay a 4.5km undersea pipeline from Port Victor to Shiyal Beyt and the work is expected to be completed by end of May.
 
 GWSSB team had first conducted the hydrological survey under the sea to check the depth and where it varies. According to its results, a profile of depth was created for uniformity in the pipeline. Due to salinity, it is difficult for a normal pipe to sustain under the water. Therefore, high density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe will be used. Each piece of 500m pipe is being joined by welding at Shiyal Beyt,
 
 N M Patel, chief engineer of GWSSB at  , said, “Shiyal Beyt was among 20 villages of   taluka that were considered in the blue print for supplying Narmada water. However, this location was most challenging as we had to place undersea pipeline.”
 
 Patel said that the pipe is lightweight and it needs some base in sea, lest it starts floating in water. “The pipe is flexible and we have set up   block at every 3 metre inside the sea, each weighing 80kg, on which the pipe will be fitted with nut-bolts on both sides,” he said.
 
 The plan is to supply 70 litre per day per person from the   line of the Narmada canal’s B-network, he added.
 
 A huge water tank will be constructed at Port Victor and from there it will reach Shiyal Beyt bet via Chanch. The 7km pipeline will be underground and 4.5km under the sea. “The work of welding pipes, construction of concrete blocks and water tank is under progress. The only difficult task is to lay the pipeline under the sea but we are hopeful of completing work by May end,” Patel said.
 
 Hamir Shiyal, former sarpanch of Shiyal Beyt, said, “We are facing water crisis as more than 15,000 people are dependent on groundwater, which is depleting fast. Most people migrate during this time for employment to Rajula. But after the fishing season, when they return, we are surely going to face shortage of water.”
 
 
