Amritsar: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will on Thursday begin its ‘Majha Mazboot Mission’ (MMM) from Baba Bakala to strengthen party’s mass base ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The mission will conclude on February 28, 2019, during which the party will hold 30 meetings each in 25 assembly constituencies falling in the districts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran. While talking to media persons here on Wednesday, in charge of AAP’s Majha zone Kuldeep Dhaliwal targeted the opposite parties for not fulfilling their promises.

 He alleged that the SAD-BJP alliance had assured the people to build a multi-sport stadium of international level at by-pass near Ranjit Avenue. “However, not even a single brick has been laid for initiating this project. Instead the place demarcated for the project has been allotted for parking.”
 
 Dhaliwal further alleged that instead of providing relief to the common people, leaders of various political parties had ruined public transport system in Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts by getting licences for their own transport companies on prominent routes in these districts. Stating that the AAP would groom its volunteers into professional politicians, he said, “Our volunteers are new to traditional style politics and don’t know much about getting people’s works done from different departments, be it police, municipal corporation or other government departments and that is why we didn’t perform well in recently concluded civic body elections. But now we have decided to groom them into professional politicians”. 
 
 Notably despite winning 20 assembly seats, the party desperately failed to even register its remarkable presence in the recently concluded civic body elections in Punjab. In Amritsar alone, the AAP had fielded 62 candidates in 85 wards but didn’t register a single victory. “We were new to the civic body elections. Our candidates didn’t know how they can get work done from different departments but now we will impart them training and groom them into Punjab-style politics,” said Dhaliwal.
 
 
