Pune: A research project ‘Exploring feasibility of cardboard composting’ by Anshuman Giramkar, Ira Ghare, Mitali Bobdey, Saleel Pathak and Shruti Chatufale of class IX from DSK School was selected for presentation at the National Children’s Science Congress. It will be held by the Department of Science and Technology in Ahmedabad. The project aims to help composting of domestic waste by introducing cardboard as the main source of carbon in the process. As part of the project, students visited garbage depots, surveyed more than 700 households and found the level of general awareness among people in waste management and composting. The students composted cardboard, continuously monitored the process and successfully produced good compost. The project was conducted under the guidance of Ashwini Pathak. It was supported by vice-president Uma Panse, director Ashwini Kulkarni and principal Sundari Jaishankar. Dances of the world The students of CM International School presented ‘Carousel of Dance’, a themed annual day. It began with a welcome song sung by the school choir. Students exhibited their talents through dances from across the world. Principal Rupali Dhamdhere presented the annual report highlighting the academic and co-curricular achievements of the school. Young achievers were awarded with trophies and certificates in various categories. Sports day at Blossom’s Blossom Public School, Tathawade held its sports meet recently at the Shri Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, Mhalunge. Assistant commissioner of police G S Madgulkar was the chief guest, while guest of honour P P Vitkar and school director Ravi Sawant were present among other dignitaries. English marathon Students of Vidya Niketan English Medium School bagged 10 first rank trophies, 14 second rank trophies and 20 trophies for third rank in English marathon exam organised for std I to IX students recently. Of 219 students, 193 students were chosen for the state level exam.  Ananya Date of class VI scored an exceptional 97/100 in the exam. School chairman Subhash Shetye and director Subhashita Shetye congratulated the students for their efforts and achievements.