SHIMLA: With the existing dry weather conditions posing threat of jaundice and some cases already being reported from  ,   and Shimla districts,   chief secretary   on Thursday directed all government departments such as irrigation & public health, rural development, urban development, health, MC and other local bodies to work in close coordination to check spread of water-borne diseases such as hepatitis A or E.

 Since January 1, two positive cases of hepatitis A have been reported from Mandi and Solan districts while one death has been reported from Sundernagar in Mandi district. Similarly, two positive cases of hepatitis E, one from Mandi and two from Shimla, have been reported.
 
 Presiding over a review meeting with senior officers of the state government in Shimla, Chawdhary said that that it was of utmost importance to sensitize the masses about the precautions and preventive measures to be taken to check outbreak of any water-borne disease. He said that emphasis should be laid on clean drinking water. He said that gram sabhas should also be involved to educate people to spread awareness in rural areas through its regular meetings. He said that testing and sampling of water should be done aggressively with latest equipment. He said that effective working of all the six sewage treatment plants in Shimla town must be ensured. 
 
 Chawdhary said that adequate stock of chlorine and other medicines must be ensured and care be taken to keep a tab on their shelf life. He said that strict action must be taken against those business establishments, hotels and restaurant owners, whose activities are leading to contamination of water resources. He said that effective steps must be taken to protect the catchment areas in the state to check water contamination. He also directed all DCs to hold regular meetings to monitor steps being taken to check water-borne diseases in their respective districts.
 
 He further said that the standard operation procedure should be adopted by the   and Health departments to clean all water tanks and reservoirs in the state. Devesh Kumar, secretary, IPH, said that over 21,000 water tanks had been cleaned in the state and the department would ensure that a few tanks in snow-bound tribal areas would be cleaned at the earliest. He said that effective chlorination of water bodies would also be ensured.
 
 
