LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to ten years rigorous imprisonment after finding him guilty in the   case of a minor. The court of additional sessions judge   also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the convict, and in default of payment of fine, to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months. 

 On 22 May 2015, Malaud police station had booked the accused   of   village in   for allegedly raping a 14-year-old girl. As per prosecution, on the day, a police party headed by ASI   was patrolling in the Grain Market in   village, when the complainant — who runs a shop from home — complained to the investigating officer.
 
 The complainant — who has four children (including the 14-year-old prosecutrix) — said that on the night of 20 May 2015, he was sleeping in the compound, and their children were sleeping in their room. He added that the next day at 5am, his neighbours called him and said they had caught the accused with his daughter on the terrace.
 
 “Thereafter, he brought his daughter (prosecutrix) inside the house from the terrace, and then he and his wife — after taking her into confidence — enquired about the matter. Then, she told them that   called her on the terrace and forced himself upon her,” alleged her father. He added that later, they got a case registered against the accused, after getting his daughter admitted in the  , as she had become unwell.
 
 On the basis of the complainant’s statement, police initially registered a case against the accused under Section 354 (assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC, and sections 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). Later, Section 376 of the IPC was added in the FIR after the victim’s medical examination. During the trial of the case, the accused refuted the allegations, and pleaded he was being falsely implicated.
 
 To substantiate its case, the prosecution examined three eye-witnesses, complainant of the case, prosecutrix, in-charge of a government school, the investigating officer, two other cops, and two medical officers. The court — after taking the evidence on record — convicted the accused.
 
 “In the case, the convict has committed a depraved and abhorrent act, in as much as he is 34 years old and married, has not spared a 14-year-old girl. A child who suffers such depravity is bound to carry the scars for her entire life. The Pocso Act 2012 has been invoked to safeguard public morality and decent behaviour. Any kind of criminal force upon any child with sexual intent has to be strictly punished,” the court observed, while sentencing the convict.
 
 
