GREATER NOIDA: A vigilante group calling itself Gau Raksha Hindu Dal warned on Saturday it would force closure of meat and egg shops if they opened during the   period that starts Sunday.

 The same outfit had forced   shut last year as well, and also ordered local dhabas (eateries) to stop selling non-vegetarian items. Ved Nagar, who calls himself president of this group, said on Saturday his outfit will also close shops selling fish. “Navratri is a revered occasion for Hindus. Our religious feelings should be respected and these shops would be shut for nine days,” he said.
 
 Last year, Nagar was arrested and sent to judicial custody after he had forced the closure of meat shops in Badalpur area of   during Navratri.
 
 The administration clarified there was no official order to close any meat shop and the local intelligence unit had been asked to keep an eye on activities of vigilante groups. Outfits like Nagar’s have been active in the region for the last few years, having assigned themselves what ought to be the police’s job, of stopping illegal transportation of cattle. They have also spread their vigilantism to Navratra and kanwar yatra (closing meat shops), and Valentine’s Day (bullying couples). 
 
 Nagar said he had submitted a memorandum to the Dadri subdivisional magistrate’s office requesting the administration to take action. “If the district administration does not take action, we will camp in the neighbourhood and force the shops to shut down,” Nagar said. He claimed other outfits like Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Hindu Yuva Vahini, Bajrang Dal and Shiv Sena have extended their support.
 
 Dadri SDM Amit Kumar Singh said none of these groups had met him. “The district administration has not issued any order for closure of meat shops. We have sensitised local intelligence units to report such matters if they get information. We will take action against vigilante groups if they try to create ruckus by forcing illegal closure of shops,” he said.
 
 Sajid Quraishi, a resident of   village who owns a meat shop in the neighbourhood, said, “I have been running this shop for several years. Nobody has told me to shut shop. We will remain open on Sunday.” Sharif Quraishi, who owns a chicken shop in Kasna, said during Navratri, sales anyway fall sharply. “We usually sell 30-40 kg chicken on a normal day. During Navratri, the sale comes to 5-6 kg. Though no one has advised us against opening the shop, I have decided to close my shop during this period,” he said.
 
 
