KAGINELE (HAVERI): Targeting   for calling himself a   and his commitment to OBCs,   on Tuesday questioned why the former’s   obstructed the passage of the bill to accord constitutional status to the backward classes commission.

 Utilising Kaginele, the ‘Karma Bhoomi’ of eminent saintpoet Kanakadasa, who is revered by the Kuruba community, as a forum to criticize Siddaramaiah, Shah told the gathering at the state-level OBC convention that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted to give constitutional status to the OBC Commission. “The bill was passed in the Lok Sabha as the BJP has full strength in the lower House,” he said. However, when the Bill was tabled in the Rajya Sabha, the Congress demanded that there should be provisions to include two from minority communities as members of the commission.”
 
 Pressing for its demand, the Congress ensured the defeat of the bill in Rajya Sabha. “Siddaramaiah should answer why the bill was not passed in the upper House,” Shah said. “I want to tell the people of the country that the BJP will ensure that the bill is passed in Rajya Sabha.”
 
 Citing the example of alleged murders of 24 people, claimed to be the workers of BJP, Shah said BJP workers were killed under Siddaramaiah rule. “Most of them were from OBC communities. If the BJP comes to power again under the leadership of B S Yeddyurappa, the murders will be probed and the culprits traced even if they are hidden underground,” he said. He also alleged that of the 3,500 farmers committed suicide in Karnataka, over 1,000 were from OBC communities.
 
 The BJP chief also targeted Siddaramaiah of discriminating among OBCs and religious minority communities. “While OBCs account for 22% and minorities 12-14% , Siddaramaiah allotted more funds for minorities and less for OBCs in the budget,” he claimed.
 
 In Badami where he visited the Shivayogi Mutt, Shah assured Veerashiava-Lingayat community seers his party would not allow religion to be divided for political ends. “Protecting religion is not only the responsibility of seers, but it’s also ours. Hence, we’ll shoulder that responsibility. We won’t allow religion to be divided for political considerations,’’ he added.
 
 Shah appreciated the services of the mutt, established 109 years ago, to train seers “I’m impressed by the Lingayat mutts of Karnataka which follow tradition,’’ he added.
 
 
