NAGPUR: Increasing temperature in the city could not deter the footfalls at Scientific Society Hall as it was jam-packed with the people who attended the first part of ‘Surile Alfaaz Geetkaronke’, organized by Swarshilpa. 

 The unique concert was conceptualized by Bhagyashree Baraskar where the songs were performed by amateur singers and homemakers.
 
 The spectators had a gala time who started an impromptu flash-mob dance in front of the stage. The programme took off on the melodious tune of ‘Suraj ki garmi se’ by Baraskar and chorus. Soulful songs like ‘Jara si aahat’, ‘Tumse mil ke’, ‘Ishaaron ishaaron’ and ‘Ab ke sajan saawan mein’ took the audience to the era of the 80s.
 
 Peppy duets from the millennium period like ‘Sooraj hua maddham’ from Kabhi Khushi Kabhi Ghum by Vaishali Deo and Maithili Kashikar, and ‘Koi kahe kehta rahe’ from Dil Chahta Hai by   and Sangeeta Karandikar struck a chord with the younger audience.
 
 Songs like ‘Badan pe sitaare lapete hue’ by Gauri Dongre and ‘Mera naam chin chin chu’ by Prajakta Deshpande got a loud applause. Almost all the songs were received with a resounding cheer for an encore from listeners.
 
 Songs from ‘Waqt’ and ‘Namak Halal’ made the audience tap their feet. Hit compositions of Sahir Ludhiyanvi, Hasrat Jaipuri and Rajesh Roshan were sung by Aanandita Chatterjee, Dr Sandhya Manjrekar, Niharika Chhajed, Radhika Pathak and Tanmaya Mundle, among others.
 
 The selection of songs by Baraskar was unique as no two numbers of the same composer were performed. Anchor Shweta Shelgaonkar kept the audience engaged with informative camaraderie.
 
 Quotes
 
 It was evident by the performances that the teacher has trained her students well. Their coordination and inspiration cannot go unnoticed. Song selection was pitch perfect and I look forward to attend the second part on Saturday as well
 
 Avinash Mahale | teacher
 
 The courage of singers was commendable as they were not professional musicians. The songs catered to all generations. Such concerts increase the confidence of performers and encourage people to follow their dreams 
 
 Swati Negi | private employee
 
 The programme is organized every year and it gives an opportunity to those who have always wanted to sing on a platform and at this age. Programmes like these not only encourage newbies but also provide them a platform. I enjoyed the concert 
 
