BENGALURU: Indicating possible inclusion of ‘fake’ voters to the electoral rolls in Mahadevapura assembly constituency, residents of Bellandur Colony in Hoodi have claimed the names of “strangers” have been listed under their residential addresses.

 “Apart from my siblings, parents, wife and sister-in-law, four extra names can be seen under my address. Likewise, over 100 extra names have been added under 20 other addressees. These people are completely unknown to us, and other residents,” a resident alleged.
 
 On Tuesday morning, the Million Voter Rising team of Whitefield Rising wrote to the Election Commission, highlighting this issue as well as some other discrepancies.
 
 “We suspect that various fake voters have been added to the list in Mahadevapura. We request you to send an audit team to do a spot check on some of these rolls.We can approach the ERO or revenue inspector but we are not sure whether such people are also involved,” residents stated in the e-mail. 
 
 Another issue is that of duplicate entries. Sources said in some instances, the same person has been assigned two voter numbers, and in some cases, even three.
 
 Neetu Tandon of Million Voter Rising said of the 450 entries she scrutinised, there were 44 (almost 10%) people who had multiple voter numbers.
 
 “I went through the final electoral roll pertaining to those living in a few apartment complexes in Bellandur ward, and found several duplicate and triplicate entries. Why is it, that despite being the IT capital of the country, our software is so outdated, that it doesn’t even eliminate duplications? There are also chances of these duplicate/triplicate voter numbers being misused. Also, this will distort all the election data such as voter turnout,” she pointed out.
 
 However, an official from the EC put the blame squarely on applicants. “Either they have given a wrong door number, or it was wrongly changed by the data entry operator, as there’s no other reason for this. For the other issue, it’s the mistake of the applicant. In part 4 of the form, they should have mentioned that they already have a voter ID. Since they haven’t done that, the system took them to be a first-time voter,” he said.
 
  BOX
 
 Ensure paid leave on May 12: EC
 
 The EC has written to the Karnataka labour commissioner to ensure all private firms provide paid leave to their employees on polling day, May 12, regardless of what shift they are working on. The notice was in response to complaints received by the EC of companies withholding employees’ leave. 
 
 
