LUCKNOW: With only three months left to monsoon, as a general practice, LMC should have begun   by now to allow smooth flow of storm water during rains. However, the process has got delayed by over a month, raising concerns about logging during heavy downpour.

 
 There are 26 big drains and about 1,800km smaller drains running around houses that help in channelizing the city’s sludge to the Bharwara sewage treatment plant. Because of faulty planning, wrong slopes, encroachments and LMC’s laxity, most drains are filled with debris causing stinking surroundings, swarms of mosquitoes and sludge overflow on roads.
 
 
 While big drains are cleaned by machines, the smaller ones are manually cleaned by sanitary workers. LMC has sufficient manpower and machines to arrange for cleaning but has not done so. The menace has been growing every day with sanitary workers even dumping waste inside them. One can see huge heaps of garbage lying along Kukrail drain, Hyder Canal and Pata Nala.
 
 
 LMC officials said they would begin cleaning of drains by April as they didn’t have funds to begin the drive. Jal Sansthan also said it would begin cleaning of sewer lines by April first week.
 
 
  of Kalyanpur said, “Every year, LMC assures to clean drains before monsoon but fails to follow it. It is only after government’s interference and spurt in complaints that   into action.”
 
 
 Neeta Singh of Gomtinagar said the cleaning of drains only begins by June when rains have logged most of the city. “The cleaning is also restricted to a few VIP areas and on references. The complaints received at control room remain mostly unattended,” she added.
 
 
 A problem faced by 80% of the city is that there is no separate channel for sewerage and sludge discharge. Because of absence of an efficient drainage network, most houses have connected their drains with sewer lines allowing sludge and garbage to flow into covered sewer lines. While this chokes sewer lines frequently, it also dries up the drain, forming thick layers of silt over time.
 
 
 Sonu Kumar of Indiranagar said, “Crores have been spent by the government on laying new drains and sewer lines in colonies but they mostly remain defunct.” Mayor   said, “I have directed both LMC and Jal Sansthan to complete cleaning of all drains and sewer lines before April 30 so that no one faces logging in monsoon.”
 
