Short films have become a trend in the state as aspiring film makers use it as a platform to achieve their directorial ambitions. And what’s more to their advantage - Those who have made a mark with their short films need not wait for an appointment to convince producers, rather they come knocking at their doors.

 But what does this mean for a tier-II city like Trichy? They no longer have to think that those in metro cities have an edge over them, stated film makers and technicians from the film industry who attended a film festival ‘First Step’ which was held at   in   on Monday. 
 
 “I made short film   with a budget of just Rs10,000. But a few years down the line I was able to turn it into the feature film ‘Meyaadha Maan’ which cost around Rs 3 crore. This is the kind of impact a good product can create,” said director  , who was one of the chief guests at the film festival. 
 
 “How difficult is it for an aspiring director from Trichy to get a chance in Kollywood?” was one of the most common queries that was raised by the students to Kumar and the other chief guests – filmmaker and creative director   and cinematographer   – during a question and answer session. 
 
 The Meyaadha Maan director addressed it by stating that digitisation has ensured that people from a tier-II city now have ample opportunities. “I think it’s a misconception that only people from Chennai have an edge over others. In fact a lot of established names in the industry now are from Trichy,” he said.
 
 Short film makers were advised to have a clear idea on what they wish to take back from a project -- they have to choose one from experience, revenue and reach. Learning from experience is something that they were strongly advised to look for while shooting a short film. 
 
 More film festivals should be held in Trichy, said P Surendran, an assistant cinematographer in Kollywood and a visual communication graduate. “The accessibility of several equipment and field work is something which young filmmakers lack in Trichy, in comparison to their counterparts in Chennai. But colleges here have started working towards addressing this issue slowly, so in the future we wouldn’t have to state this as a drawback,” he said.
 
 
