VADODARA: Commuters in the city are under the watchful eyes of police again. The city police have started reissuing e-challans to traffic offenders over the last two days. And it is having an effect on many two-wheeler commuters who have begun wearing helmets to escape penalties. The police said they are initially focusing only main roads in the city.

 While on Sunday, the cops issued 106 e-challans, the figure went up to 149 on Monday. “We are presently focusing on the main roads and busy areas. Those not wearing helmets, seat belts and flouting other traffic rules are being sent e-challans. The drive will pick up in the coming days,” said Amita  , ACP (traffic).
 
 Asked about the concerns of the owners being penalized even if his or her vehicle is being driven by some other person, Vanani said, “Such cases usually happen in family when the vehicle is registered in someone’s name but other members drive it. Wet track down the traffic offenders based on the vehicle number so the e-challan will be issued in his or her name. If they have any grievance then they can present their case in the court.”
 
 The cops, though, are taking additional measures to ensure that e-challans don’t reach wrong destinations. The control room that issues e-challans is verifying the complete details including address of the vehicle owner to avoid any confusion. The police had generated hundreds of e-challans over the last two days, but many of them were not issued due to vehicle owner’s incomplete address.
 
 “If any person commits traffic offence four times, then   (RTO) has authority to suspend his or her driving licence,” Vanani added. Some of the main areas where CCTVs are being used to issue e-challans include Ambedkar Circle, Manisha Crossroads, Kalaghoda Circle, Mujmahuda Crossroads, L&T Circle, Amitnagar Circle, Rhino Circle, Natubhai Circle, Sangam Crossroads and Sama-Savli Checkpost.
 
 Helmets, seat belts mandatory in city
 
 Many citizens were confused after they received WhatsApp messages which claimed that helmets were not compulsory in walled city areas or city limits. The police, however, said that helmets and seat belts are mandatory in every area of the city.
 
 
