Madurai: What can people expect from those who got government jobs by giving bribes to politicians and officials? asked the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday. “Politicians will remain in power for five years, and they will go. But officials are not like politicians.  ,” the court observed while hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on a scam in the selection process for government jobs in Tamil Nadu.

 A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran R Tharani took the suo moto PIL based on an article that appeared in The Times of India on January 27. The article said scams happened as the selection process had been outsourced. It also described the modus operandi of scamsters. 
 
 Justice N Kirubakaran said, “We were shocked after reading the article which highlighted scams in the recruitment of teachers, lecturers and others by the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) and the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB).”
 
 The judge said, “A corrupt practice has been committed. Posts have been purchased by a group of people by giving bribe of Rs 25 lakh. We want to know whether the TRB and the TNPSC have involved in the scam. How long have you (government) outsourced the selection process? It doesn’t know whether such worst thing had happened in previous recruitment. It is a serious issue. A thorough enquiry is required in the present case. Why don’t you entrust the investigation to a special investigation wing or the CBI?”
 
 Special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan said the TRB had no nexus in the scam. He said the TRB had lodged a complaint with the crime branch (Chennai) which in turn registered an FIR on December 27 last. Besides, the TRB had uploaded all coding sheets on its website. The court asked how many accused had been arrested in connection with the scam and adjourned the case to February 16.
 
 The news item stated that the TNPSC and TRB and others who conduct NET, SLET and TET have been giving selection process renewable every year to private agencies so much so that it is this private company, not TNPSC which places orders with a Hyderabad-based security press for coding sheets. While placing the orders, the company asks the press to supply specimen copies of coding sheet, but without printing the word specimen.
 
 Though the specimen coding sheets are meant for demo purposes, these companies illegally coded the specimen sheets at their scanning centres. A gang of brokers and employees of different departments, fanned out scouting for candidates with paying capacity. Once a deal was struck, the candidate was given his registration number well ahead of the examination and crucial instructions such as use of a specific kind of pencil to mark the coding sheets.
 
 Within a day or two after the examination, the outsourcing agencies marked the specimen sheets with appropriate answers and scanned them. Later, they tampered the scores. They had also reduced the marks of some deserving candidates to make it doubly sure that those who paid them got through.
 
 
