LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) police, on Thursday, formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe charges against an   after a Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader released an audio recording in which he is allegedly asking for a bribe from someone for releasing his sand tractor. Police suspended the ASI and sent him to police lines after the complaint against him. The officer, identified as ASI Rajwinder Singh, was posted in Sidhwan Bet police station.

 Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ludhiana (Rural)   said following a complaint, ASI Rajwinder was placed under suspension and asked to report to district police lines. Given the sensitivity of the matter, a departmental inquiry will be conducted against the officer by an SIT comprising SP, detective Rupinder Bhardwaj, DSP, Dakha Jaswinder Singh and CIA in-charge Lakbhir Singh.
 
 The police officer said the inquiry will be conducted in a time-bound manner and the ASI will be sternly punished if found guilty. He said the tractor being used by the persons for transporting sand is also illegal as it is to be used only for farming. 
 
 LIP leader   said Sidhwan Bet police seized six tractors and booked the drivers under the mining act even as they had slips from the general manager of the mining department of Moga proving legal mining. Some of the tractor drivers, he said, were arrested and got bail after four days.
 
 “One of the tractor owners, Chandi Ram of Panj Tera in Phillaur came to me before doing the bribe deal with the ASI was struck and informed me about the case. He also gave me the audio clip he had recorded wherein the ASI is asking for Rs 60,000 for not registering a case against him. I gave the audio clip to the SSP and asked him to act”, said the LIP leader. Bains said he suspects the involvement of other senior officers. 
 
 If the SSP does not register a case against the ASI, he said he, alongwith the victims, would go to meet the director general of police (DGP) to get an FIR registered against the officer. He also said he would stage a protest outside his office if the need arose. 
 
 Simarjeet Bains dismissed the assertion that tractor trolleys cannot be used for transporting sand, saying that the mining act doesn’t say so. The LIP leader said he was shocked to know that the SHO of Sidhwan Bet who was transferred from there to Sangrur after cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu brought the matter to the notice of DGP, returned as SHO in the same police station within three hours. 
 
 Bains also alleged that he came to know that the batteries of the tractors seized by the Sidhwan Bet police were found missing by the owners.
 
 Box: Being The Bad Cop
 
 January 5, 2018: The vigilance wing of PSPCL suspended a sub-inspector and assistant sub-inspector posted in Ludhiana for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 during a sting operation conducted by Lok Insaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains
 
 October, 2016: The Vigilance Bureau arrested an ASI while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a   resident
 
 
