Not a day passes without news of a woman breaking into what was once a man-only terrain. Such news now comes not only from cities and villages but also from the wilderness.   has, for the first time, appointed   (forest guards) across the state in the past two months. They are now successfully ‘manning’ the deep and dark forests, both during day and night.

 Idukki district alone has 24 of them and among them is Athira P Vijayan, the Beat Forest Officer (BFO) of Nachivayal Forest Station, Marayoor Range. She has been doing night duty (6 pm to 6 am) from January 1. “Sreedevi P S and I joined in the Nachivayal station last month. It is the first time the Kerala Government has appointed women as  . Interestingly, in our batch, there were 40 women out of the 113 trainees. Earlier, there were only men,” she says. Admitting that she was a tad anxious when she got the posting at Marayoor, she says: “We don’t feel safe even inside our houses, so I wondered how it would be in the jungles. But then I thought, that very fear is what is stopping us from attempting anything new. I decided to conquer my fears. Now, I feel confident, though it isn’t easy,” she says.
 
 The duo have close encounters with wild animals like wild boar, deer and wild gaur every day. “They don’t harm us,” Athira says. “All we do is flash a torch on to their face and they leave. We go for night patrolling inside the forest. It is an interesting job.” She hopes that the tough job will prepare her to become a good forest official. “We know there is a lot of risk as there is wood smuggling and other illegal activities going on within the forest. But, what is life without challenges and adventure?” she asks.
 
 The engineer turned forester who took up the job in December admits that her family is a bit worried. “They have only heard about and seen foresters in films, so they are a bit concerned about the threat from animals and encroachers. However, the past weeks have gone well and after explaining things to them, they are a bit relieved,” she says. Her colleague Sreedevi is also confident about the job she has taken up with utmost passion. “I believe women can become great foresters if they have the willpower,” she says.
 
 Jyothimol from Nedumkayam forest station quips that they have less to fear in the forest than in the cities. “We haven’t joined as women BFOs but just BFOs so we do all the tasks that are assigned to us. We go to deep forests even in the night. We often see animals like elephants, bear and gaur. They have never harmed us. All we do is change our direction without disturbing them,” says the 28 year-old who has N Roshni, K Saraswathi and K P Lolitha for company in her division.
 Marayoor Range Forest Officer Job J Neriamparampil is extremely happy about the energy level and dedication of the new recruits. 
 
 “There are advantages in having women officers with us while we go for raids and operations. We see the culprits acting with composure instead of resorting to violence,” he observes. He goes on to list the variety of jobs women BFOs can handle. “They can opt for check post duty, depot work, VSS (Vana Samarakshana Samithi) activity, dog squad and so on. I am extremely glad that the female beat officers are even doing night duty,” he adds.
 
 Munnar Divisional Forest Officer S Narendra Babu agrees that the forest department has taken a very positive move by adding women to the team of BFOs. “In the Nilambur South Division, seven women BFOs have joined and they are all performing really well. However, taking into consideration the threat from Maoists, we are a bit careful about the jobs assigned to them,” he adds.
 
 Once recruited as Forest Officer, the person has to perform all the duties and responsibilities that come with it, irrespective of gender, says Sharmila Jayaram, Forest Range Officer, Palakkad division, who had trained a woman BFO. “I believe women should also do all the jobs that a forester is expected to do. So I encouraged her to undertake all the work along with me, though initially she was hesitant to do so. We all know that a forester should be an all-rounder and tough. When men are working hard, if women take a step back because of safety concerns, how can we achieve gender equality?” she asks. 
 
