BHOPAL: Hundreds of schoolchildren in   and Morena districts face an uncertain future as   Board of Secondary Education ( ) has issued showcause notice to 33 private schools and has ordered cancellation of their affiliation after discovering fraud in the enrolment of students.

 The schools have been caught on various parameters violating affiliation norms, which includes fraud in the enrolment of students in Class 9 and 11.
 
 “The enrolment of students in these schools are hundred times higher in Class 10 and 12 as compared to Class 9 and 11, which is alarmingly high. It means all these extra students are not the regular students,” the chairman of MPBSE, S R Mohanty said.
 
 Mohanty said some schools, which only had 20 students in Class IX had enrolled 1,000 students in Class X and schools which had 30 students in Class 11 were seen having 200 students in Class 12. Upon inspecting the number of students in these schools, it was found that the school authorities were violating various norms and they did not even have ample space for accommodating students in the classrooms. They also did not have the required number of teachers.
 
 Mohanty said that it is most likely that these schools have taken a hefty amount from failed or private students and assured them admission as regular students.
 
 “In two districts, we found this abnormal trend and the cancellation of their affiliation is the best punishment for them. No students will ever take admission in such schools with dubious background,” the board chairman said.
 
 MPBSE had asked the collectors of the two districts to probe the matter after complaints were received by the board. All the students who were enrolled in these schools will be allowed to sit in regular exams. However, they will be treated as private candidates. Their results will be declared with private students, Mohanty told TOI.
 
 According to sources, these schools have also engaged in granting admission to students of adjoining districts of neighbouring   in Class 10 and 12 as regular students.
 
 Complaints are also pouring in that the schools were asking students to appear only in the annual exams. No class work was conducted by these schools, sources said.
 
 The schools have been issued a showcause notice, which would be followed by a notice of disaffiliation soon.
 
