KOCHI: Several government schools in the district are witnessing a rise in the number of students applying for admission this year, especially those who are migrating from   schools. 

 
 "Even though admissions are open till the first week of June, we have already seen a surge when compared to previous academic year. Last year, we had a total of 250 new admissions but this year, in a short span, we have seen around 100 new admissions from Class V to Class IX. Most new admissions are to Class V and Class VIII," said  , headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, Kadayiruppu.
 
 Similar trends were observed across various schools in the district.
 
 "Most students are seeking transfer because they are not able to afford the fee in private schools. Another reason could be that many government schools are now well equipped with internet connections and hi-tech classrooms," said Shailaja P V, headmistress, Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Ernakulam.
 
 She said last year they had 125 new admissions in Classes VIII to X. But this year the schools have admitted more than 160 new students in these grades.
 
 "At the headmaster's conference, several schools reported that they are witnessing a similar trend. Most government schools can accommodate the students as their class strength had dropped because of migration to other schools in the past," she added.
 
 CA Santosh, deputy director of education, said the recent initiatives to revitalize government schools could be another reason.
 
 "With initiatives like hi-tech classrooms initiative and others, the public do not see government schools anymore as neglected institutions," he added.
 
 Principal of a prominent CBSE school said five of their students have departed to government schools.
 
 Meena Paul, headmistress, Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Aluva, said some of the CBSE students who joined the institution did so because their schools were listed as unrecognized by the government and hence they wanted to avoid the uncertainty.
 
 "A needless fear was created by the notices issued by the education department to certain schools. It is a momentary trend and in the long term, students who leave the CBSE schools would return because they have proven that they can maintain their standards," said T P M  , president, Kerala CBSE Schools Management Association.
 
 
