SRINAGAR: Police on Wednesday detained Major  , who had triggered a row after he tied a civilian on his jeep’s bonnet as “a human shield” in central Kashmir’s Budgam in April last year, along with a young   woman and a middleman, identified by cops as Sameer Malla, following an altercation over getting a room in hotel Grand Mamta at Kohona Khan Dalgate.

 
 Police recorded the statement of Major Gogoi before letting him join his 53 Rashtriya Rifles (Punjab Regiment) unit at Beerwa in Budgam later. The statements of the woman and the hotel staff have been recorded.
 
 “We have ordered a probe, headed by SP North, who will submit a report soon. If it is a cognizable offence, action will be taken as per the law. It is too early to comment,” said IG, Kashmir Range, SP Pani.
 
 Rejecting reports that the young woman was a minor, a senior police officer said, “The woman is an adult as per her date of birth on her Aadhaar card. Major Leetul Gogoi said he had come to the hotel to meet a source.”
 
  said its “future course of action” would be decided after the police probe was completed. “Let the entire chain of circumstances becomes clear. As of now, there are only allegations floating around,” said an officer.
 
 Though J&K police refused to disclose the Army officer’s identity, Major Gogoi’s name was recorded in the hotel’s register. “The person, named Leetul Gogoi from Tinsukia in  , had booked a deluxe room through an online website, Booking.com, for one night at 8.34am on Wednesday. He arrived at 10.30am at our hotel along with the woman,” hotel manager   told TOI. “We asked them for their identity proofs. While Leetul Gogoi showed his driving license, the woman produced her Aadhaar card,” he added.
 
 Another manager,  , said a receptionist, Muzaffar Ahmad, was on duty at the front desk when the altercation broke out after they weren’t given a room, which led the hotel staff to call police around 11am. “It happened in a jiffy. We came to know through social media that the Army major detained from our hotel was the one who had tied Farooq Ahmed Dar on the bonnet of his jeep last year,” hotel owner   said.
 
 “Normally we ourselves pick up guests, who book rooms online, from the airport. But on Wednesday morning, a non-local man and a young local woman alighted from an Alto K10 car. As they approached the reception counter, the man identified himself as Leetul Gogoi from Assam. He showed his driving license from Assam instead of his identity card. When our staff inquired about the woman, who looked young, the man had no answer. Our staff humbly informed him that they don’t offer rooms to local women,” added Manzoor Ahmed.
 
 Last year, the Army had brushed aside criticism against Major Gogoi for violating human rights soon after the April 9, 2017 “human shield” episode. Army Chief General Bipin Rawat had awarded Major Gogoi with the Chief of Army Staff commendation card for his “sustained efforts in counter-insurgency operations as well as his presence of mind and initiative to prevent bloodshed in a volatile situation”.
 
 Though J&K police had lodged an FIR in the case, General Rawat made it clear that he awarded Major Gogoi to boost the morale of young officers and jawans engaged in counter-terrorism operations in a “dirty, proxy war”, amid stone-pelting mobs in the Valley.
  
 
