BENGALURU:   coach   played it safe but still managed to maintain the Blues’ winning run as they defeated   2-0 at the   stadium here on Friday. The revenge victory — after their 3-4 loss in the away leg in Margao — was Bengaluru’s fifth straight win and helped them become the first team this season to seal their berth in the semifinals of the Indian Super League.

 
 The Blues continue to top the table with 33 points from 15 games, eight clear of second-placed FC Pune City, while Goa were sixth with 20 points, having played two games less. Roca, who left out five key players, including in-form striker Miku from the starting XI that beat Chennniyin FC away on Tuesday, played his cards perfectly as his boys overcame their highly-rated rivals.
 
 The Blues took the lead in the 35th minute off Antonio Dovale’s perfectly taken corner. The ball fell nicely to Edu Garcia at the far post and the Spaniard buried it in the near corner with a fine header that flew over ‘keeper Naveen Kumar and the last man in defence, Goa captain Bruno Pinheiro.
 
 Changing ends, the Goans looked hungry for the equalizer but the Bengaluru defence, marshalled by John Johnson and Juanan Gonzales, remained watertight. In the 77th minute, Goa coach Sergio Lobero made a double substitution, even taking off his skipper, but as the Goans pressed for the elusive goal, Bengaluru doubled their lead.
 
 Midfielder   beat the offside trap following a combined offensive involving substitute Boithang Haokip and Garcia and tapped the ball in comfortably past Kumar in the 82nd minute. The second goal left the Goans stunned and the West Block Blues rubbed it into the travelling fans, chanting ‘We can’t hear you’.
 
 Earlier, in pouring rain, the visitors began with a flourish as both their Spanish stars — Ferran Corominas and Manuel Lanzarote — went close to opening Goa’s account. They dominated the midfield with Moroccan Ahmed Jahouh dictating terms.
 
 In the seventh minute, Goa threatened through the left, with Narayan Das combining with the free-flowing Mandar Rao Dessai. The former Bengaluru player, who impressed with his delightful moves as he cut in repeatedly through the left, found Corominas who rushed through the middle. But an alert Bengaluru goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh blocked the header with his leg.
 
 Three minutes later, Manvir Singh tested Gurpreet with a snap long-ranger but the India custodian was equal to the challenge as he leaped high to fist it away. Half an hour into the match, Goans began to lose their grip as Blues began in stitch more number of passes. It worked as it unsettled the Gaurs’ attacking rhythm.
 
 For Bengaluru, skipper Sunil Chhetri came up with a scorching effort in the 57th minute, which was tipped over the crossbar by Kumar with great difficulty.
 
 Result: Bengaluru FC 2 (Garcia 35,   82) bt FC Goa 0.
 
 
