CHENNAI: In a display of competitive politics, on a day when the opposition observed   over the   across the state, chief minister   launched an exclusive mobile   –   - for the benefit of the farming community.   can avail nine services, including weather forecast, details of subsidy schemes and   on the app.

 Touted as one of the best for farmers in the country, the bilingual mobile-friendly app is the result of six months of strenuous efforts by the agriculture department with the support of agencies like meteorology, TN Agriculture University and Agriculture Marketing, besides private suppliers of fertilizers and seeds. “Given the reach of mobile connectivity in the state, the app will ensure high level of transparency in government services,” a senior official said.
 
 Vagaries of monsoon impacting the crop pattern is a cause of worry. The app offers weather forecast for five days in a row, weather based Agromet advisories and tips for livestock care.
 
 For instance, Nagapattinam farmers are given advisories on how to tackle leaf hopper attack. Farmers will also get real-time information on availability of subsidized fertilizer in 12,000 outlets, seed stock in agri-extension centres and private depots. Those who want to hire farm machinery like tractors, tillers, transplanters and harvesters can check their availability on the app. So is the market price of each produce in each district.
 
 Crop insurance gets prioritized in the app in the backdrop of Tamil Nadu having made a historic feat in receiving compensation to the tune of Rs 3,113 crore under PM’s crop insurance scheme last year. Tamil Nadu walked away with a lion’s share of the compensation last year.
 
 “Farmers can get to know where and how to insure their crop and details of their insurance policy too without any hassle. Insurance premium for the current fiscal will be made known after the Centre notifies it,” the official added. To ensure timely visit of assistant agriculture officers to farms in rural areas, their mobile numbers would be available on the app, the official added.
 
 
