As the sun begins its journey north (Uttarayan), families gear up to celebrate the festival of harvest with fervour. Most excited among them are this year’s newlyweds and new parents who will be celebrating their very first   adorned in fineries and the conventional ‘Halwyache Dagine’ or sugar jewellery, amid hollers of ‘tilgul ghya, goad goad bola’. The festival falling on a 
  means more cheer for revellers as amidst the fast pace of city life, most traditions are being altered to suit convenience. Today however, the celebrations will be an elaborate affair, with ceremonies like suneche tilavan (welcoming the new bride) and balache bornhan being highlights.

 
 
 
 Maharashtrians residing in   and   ensure they follow all the traditions handed down by elders of the community. For newlyweds Pranay and Sharwari Gajbe, the lady of the house, Karuna Gajbe, got their customary look sorted. “My son Pranay got married last weekend and this weekend we get to celebrate suneche tilavan for our daughter-in-law Sharwari. We wanted to make this a memorable event for the couple which is why a typical Marathi silk sari and halwyache dagine were ordered from our native place in Maharashtra. Though the jewellery is available here as well, the craftsmanship is different,” shares Karuna. Sharwari, on the other hand, is excited to witness the festivities as a new bride, “I’m excited to wear the black silk sari my mother-in-law has got for me. Even she is going to don the traditional nauwari for the occasion, along with my elder sister-in-law. The family will converge at our in-laws’ place and they have even planned a menu with til laddoos, gulachi poli and more.” 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The customary sugar jewellery, halwyache dagine, is sugar candies made out of roasted sesame seeds combined with sabudana and sugar powder. Smita Amol Chandwadkar, who makes the jewellery on order in Indore, explains, “In ancient times, ladies used to make the jewellery at home. Today people either order from Maharashtra or some Maharashtrian stores in   and Rambagh in Indore. I take orders for kamarbandhs, mukuts, bangles, necklaces and mathapatti for new brides and small ornaments like anklets, for new-born babies.” Chandwadkar also sells and offers the jewellery on rent through social media portals. Neeta Thakur, who is conducting the ceremony for her daughter-in-law, ordered through WhatsApp. “We are a Rajput family, but have a sweet Maharashtrian daughter-in-law Soudamini, for whom we will be conducting the ceremony. We sought help from her parents and they got us in touch with the ladies from the community who have been selling customised sugar jewellery online. We placed an order two weeks ago, and today she will wear it for the celebration,” she informs.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The quintessential black sari too holds a special significance. Irawati Paranjape, 68, matriarch of the Paranjape household in Bhopal and an erstwhile Marathi language teacher from Pune, shares, “There is no religious significance of the black sari, but as the festival falls in the peak of winter, black is the preferred colour as it absorbs heat and keeps the wearer warm. Even men wear black on Sankranti.” The week following Makar Sankranti will be marked by haldi-kumkum celebrations at various households, where Maharashtrian ladies will apply auspicious colours on each other and exchange sweets and gifts. English teacher, Snehal Deshmukh, 28, who will be hosting her second year of haldi-kumkum celebrations adds, “It’s a week full of revelry for our community as we welcome the new year with hopes of full harvest and prosperity. Food on this occasion will consist primarily of fruits specific to the season – like ber and amla – and of course more dishes with healthy helping of til (sesame) and gud (jaggery).”
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 While the Maharashtrian community will celebrate with tilgul and kites, the Punjabi community finished up royally with a night full of dancing around bonfires and getting decked up in vivid colours of the state. The ladies of Bhopal-based Agroha Ladies club made sure they left no stone unturned as they tuned up in their brightly coloured Patialas, parandas and jootis and danced away around the Lohri. Freshly harvested gehu (wheat) and rebdi was also offered to the fire as families shared popcorn and other sweets.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
