PATNA: The state disaster management department (DMD) is likely to launch a lightning app before monsoon this year. The app will help department officials know about lightning strike half an hour in advance. Nineteen persons lost their lives in the lightning strike in several districts across the state on Monday night.

 
 DMD principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said the app would alert officials the moment some lightning activity is registered by the sensors. “The transmitted thread will reach all the officials concerned as well as the upcoming emergency operation centre (EOC),” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Centre has yet not provided funds to the tune of Rs40 lakh to set up three lightning-detecting sensors in  . Last year, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, had proposed to install the three sensors in Bihar. Each sensor will cover a radius of 200km.
 
 According to   (BSDMA) officials, the sensors are proposed to be installed in Purnia, Kishanganj and Saharsa, which are considered quite prone to lightning.   officials quoted the IITM saying the Centre had not provided funds yet to install the sensors.
 
 That apart, the DMD also plans to set up 7-8 sensors with a radius of 1000km and to be connected with the proposed lightning app. “Although the job can be done with only two sensors in Bihar, the data will be more accurate with the help of 7-8 sensors,” a DMD official said.
 
 “BSDMA has been working to create awareness among the masses as to how to protect themselves in case of lightning. Members have visited panchayats as well as schools to educate people about the   and don’ts in case of lightning,” BSDMA vice-chairman Vyasji said.
 
 BSDMA sources said Rs500 crore has been allotted by the Centre to the state for disaster relief fund and 10% for local disasters. In case of Bihar, such disasters include lightning, road accidents and boat mishaps, deaths due to loo and drowning, rail and air accidents.
 
 “In Bihar, lightning cases are far more than anticipated and the reason is not known. The state government often has to provide relief to the victims of lightning,” the sources said.
 
 
