HYDERABAD: At least half of the 900-1,000 patients turning up at the state-run Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital in the city are forced to brave a battery of speeding vehicles to cross the main road before they can avail of treatment. Often, patients get hit by these vehicles and end up at the hospital with different kind of injuries than what they came to treat.

 
 While a proposal to set up a foot overbridge outside the hospital for the convenience of people had been drawn up five years ago by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, it has failed to make progress.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A tertiary care centre, the SD Eye hospital caters to patients referred from district hospitals, area hospitals and even neighbouring states. Patients travel anywhere between 10 and 100 kilometres in buses routinely to reach the centre, only to be met with this hurdle of crossing the road. A visit to the spot upholds their plight.
 
 Located opposite the hospital is the bus stand, where most patients travelling from Dilsukhnagar, Amberpet, Siddipet,   and even   get off the buses. Early on Monday morning, many among them were found struggling to reach the facility on the other side. Patients alighting on the side of the hospital too aren’t spared of this struggle as they compulsorily need to cross over to the other side for their return journey.
 
 “Every day we see at least one or two patients getting hit by vehicles. Not a single vehicle stops here even if they see old patients struggling to cross the road. We dial 108 ambulance to take them to a hospital or attend to them,” said Mohd Jameel, staffer at the privatelyoperated canteen on the hospital campus.
 
 Not surprisingly, scores of patients are seen clinging to their attendants tightly. “I was sitting in the bus for hours in this heat. If that wasn’t all, I am now faced with this problem. Crossing this road is a nightmare. It takes 10-15 minutes under the blazing sun to walk to the other side. Every time a vehicle comes dangerously close, my son yells at me to speed up,” said  , who came from Kumarapalli in Prakasam district.
 
 Another patient  , who came from Nalgonda, said he felt dizzy looking at the unending traffic speeding past him. “I have been going back and forth but am unable to cross,” he said in a distressed voice before a good Samaritan came to his rescue.
 
 Hospital authorities say they have been knocking on GHMC’s doors for years to resolve this issue but to no avail. “It is a chronic problem and we have been representing the issue to the   and have even been constantly reminding them (for constructing a foot overbridge), especially for the last two years. The daily footfall has increased drastically now,” said the hospital superintendent,   adding that a GHMC team had visited the hospital recently and had even responded positively.
 
