With reports of actor   spying on his wife’s call detail records (CDR) surfacing, his wife   has rubbished them in a long post on social media. She said, “Rahi baat, CDR se judi iss nai controversy ki to, sachchaai jald sabke saamne aa jayegi. Bas main yahan itna hi kahungi ki Nawaz par lagaaye gaye allegation poori tarah se jhoote aur be-buniyaad hain.   hone ke karan, unhein soft target banaya gaya hai…..” 

 This is not the first time that the actor has found himself in the midst of a controversy. His ex-girlfriends had lashed out at him on social media platforms, when he revealed details of his past relationships in his biography. Addressing the issue, his wife opined how Nawazuddin got himself into trouble for speaking the truth. She added, “Pichhle dino unki biography ko lekar bhi, unki kaaphi aalochna hui thi. Nawaz ka dosh sirf itna tha ki wo sach ko sach bolte hain. Unke andar kahin koi jhooth nahi. Lekin bajaay unhein samjhne ke, unhein galat thahra diya gaya.”
 
 That’s not all, Aaliya harked back to the past and explained how her relationship with the actor, which dates back to 2003, is built on a foundation based on mutual respect for each other’s faith. She wrote, “Mujhe Nawaz ki hamesha se jo achchhi baat lagi, wo hai unka khule vicharon ka hona. Unhein jitna apna space pasand hai, dusron ko bhi wo utna hi space dete hain aur iska sabse bada example hai hum dono ka dharm. Main Hindu brahmin family se hoon, wahi Nawaz ek muslim. Lekin Nawaz ne kabhi mere alag dharm se hone ka mujhe ahsaas nahi hone diya. Na hi apne dharm ko mujh par thopne ki kabhi koshish ki. Wo jitna apne dharm ko maante hain, wahi respect, wo mere dharm ko bhi dete hain. Yahi hamaare bich ek mazboot rishtey ki buniyaad rahi hai. Isi baat ne achchhe pati aur pita ke saath-saath, unhein ek behtareen insaan banaya hai.”
 
 When Nawazuddin’s name cropped up for allegedly spying on his wife, he took to social media to refute the reports. “Last evening, I was helping my daughter to prepare her school project Hydroelectric Power Generator and went to her school this morning for Project Exhibition. To my surprise, the media had questions about some random allegations on me. #Disgust,” the actor tweeted.
 
 With the actor’s wife coming to his rescue and giving him a clean chit, Nawazuddin can hopefully heave sigh of relief. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
