Jaipur: Known as the first ‘Female Superstar of Hindi Cinema’   had visited Rajasthan for various reasons including attending marriage of Kishor Lulla’s daughter in 2012 to paying obeisance at the shrine of Khwaja Moinuddhin Chishti in Ajmer. But, it is her 2-month-long schedule for the shooting of Yash Chopra’s ‘Lamhe’ that is still fresh in the minds of many people close to the film fraternity.

 For the family of Late OP Bansal, a Jaipur-based film distributor who had a long association with the actors of Hindi cinema, the memories of the shooting of the film ‘Lamhe’ in Jaipur are still fresh.
 
 “It was a cold December when Yash ji (Yash Chopra) who was shooting for the film called and invited us to come for dinner at city’s 5-star hotel. He specially asked us to come as the theme of the food that evening was Rajasthani. When we went there we had an impression that the Sridevi would be full of tantrums and would be reserved, but the most pleasant and surprising thing of the evening other than authentic Rajasthani food was how Sridevi ji played the host for the guests including my family,” recalled Raj Bansal elder son of Late OP Bansal while talking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 “We thought since the dinner was in our city and everyone associated with the film was shooting here we should have played host but she was candid, caring and frank with everyone around,” Bansal added. He further said how Sridevi used to transform from a normal person cracking jokes into a serious actor performing an emotional scene.
 
 “One day we were at the set when she was cracking jokes. After a few minutes she was informed that the shot was ready. It was an emotional scene. She transformed herself so well that everyone around had tears in their eyes,” he recalled. During the 2-month long shooting Sridevi also loved the colours of Rajasthan and purchased ‘Leharia’ sarees and other fabrics. Her last visit to the state was in Jodhpur when she had come to attend the wedding of Rishika Lulla, daughter of Kishor Lulla of Eros International.
 
 The film ‘Lamhe’ was shot in Jaipur at Kanak Vrindavan, Amber Fort, Rambagh Palace and the Sam sand dunes of Jaisalmer. The film also won Filmfare awards in 5 categories including best actress, best film, best comedian, best story and best dialogues.
 
 
