 is known to be a doting father in real life and now the actor will play the same role on screen with his daughter, Sara, in Srijit Mukherji’s Uma — a film inspired by the true story of  , a Canadian boy who was diagnosed with a terminal disease. ‘The credit for all of Sara’s achievements goes to her and Srijit. I have no role to play in that,’ said Jisshu, who is riding high on the compliments Sara has been receiving after the film’s trailer was launched recently. CT caught the father-daughter duo in a candid mood when we visited their Golf Green residence.

 
 
  
 
 
 Flying high: ‘Ki gecho meye re baba! Sara is the one who’s always playing pranks on me. It’s my little one, Zara, who saves me from her,’ said Jisshu, while pleading with Sara to climb down the tree. Sara told us that Srijit came at night to read out the script and how her parents vehemently said no to it. ‘Srijit said to Baba, ‘Don’t impose your decision on her. I’ll narrate the script to my heroine and let her take a call,’ said Sara.
 
  
 
  
 
 Brilliant shot: ‘Baba, you have to tell everyone how Srijit (she calls the director by name) would praise me after every shot and never say good things to you,’ said Sara with a wink. ‘Srijit is a hard taskmaster and never praises any actor on the sets, no matter how well they perform. But with Sara, he was completely different! After every shot, he would pat her back and shout, ‘Brilliant shot!’,’ said the proud father with a peck on Sara’s cheek
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Remembering rituparno ghosh: ‘After Noukadubi, I was suffering from severe typhoid. Rituda dropped in and gifted me this book and I treasure it. Our home has a corner for Rituda where every single item is gifted by him,’ Jisshu said, adding, ‘Remember Sara, you asked Rituda why he wears so much of jewellery and makeup and how nicely he explained the reason to you?’
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Shared pride: ‘Baba is so fond of cars! Of late, he has been so busy that we miss our late-night drives and eating out at dhabas,’ said the daughter, who feels proud when crowds gather to click selfies with Jisshu. ‘I feel equally proud when people call up after watching the trailer of Uma to say that Sara is brilliant in the film and add that a star is born,’ Jisshu added
 
  
  
 
 Friends galore: ‘I asked Sara what’s the best thing about doing this film and she said, making friends! She spent all the time on the sets with   and Srabanti and hardly interacted with me,’ said Jisshu, who was barred by Srijit to give Sara acting tips
 
 
 
  
 
 Being a Father: ‘You know Baba often used to break down on the sets as I play an ailing daughter in the film. Srijit had to wait till Baba got a grip on his emotions,’ Sara said. ‘Sara, stop disclosing my emotional moments,’ Jisshu said and went on to admit that he got disturbed when the line between the reel and real fathers got blurred
 
 
  
 
 
 A strong bond: ‘Both my daughters, Sara and Zara, are angels in disguise in my life. ‘After their birth, all the demons have gone away from my life and by god’s grace, I started getting good, meaningful projects,’ said Jisshu. To this, Sara, while praying for her film’s success, added, ‘I felt an inner power while doing Uma, as Uma is  , who is shakti incarnate’ 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 I want a phone, baba: ‘You are quite heavy Sara, please get down,’ Jisshu said between gasps. But his daughter refused to do so. ‘I won’t until you promise to buy me a phone from the remuneration I got for doing the film. All my friends have their own phones,’ she said with a laugh
 
 
 
 
