Riding a cycle on a city road and reaching the destination safely is not less than winning a war, said Dr  , a 60-year-old resident of   and a cyclist. She rides her cycle to the clinic and pedals for at least 50km every day. Narrating a harrowing experience, she said she was returning from her clinic when a bus took a sharp turn in the Vadavalli area to avoid a pothole, not noticing that she was cycling on the extreme left side of the road. "I miraculously escaped that day," she said. "There is no respect for cyclists by other vehicle users and the infrastructure needs to be improved if they want the bicycle sharing system to be useful. The roads are not user-friendly for cyclists," she said.

 While patrons for the bicycle sharing system seem to be increasing by the day, lack of exclusive cycle tracks and safety on the road has made residents avoid cycles during peak hours. With limited space on the roads even for pedestrians, riding cycles may not be practical. Civic activists said that only if there are cycle tracks people will use the system better.
 
 "People are willing to use the bicycle sharing system. But the safety aspect worries the residents," said a corporation engineer who added that while riding cycles buses and cars sped past perilously close to the riders.
 
 "Several exclusive cycle tracks will come up under the smart city project around the city lakes. These will have connectivity with inner roads in the areas around the lake," said an engineer.
 
 Ravi Shankar, a civic activist, said that without safety assurance, this launch will not be a successful one. "In other countries where this was launched, cyclists were allowed to ride on pavements and separate cycle tracks. But in Coimbatore, all the pavements are also blocked by vendors. The corporation has to come up with roads and locations that can be exclusively used by cyclists."
 
 Corporation commissioner   said they would assess the usage and take appropriate steps to improve infrastructure.
 
 
