MUMBAI: While differences between the ruling allies,   and  , seem to be only increasing, senior BJP leader and   minister   believes the ties should continue. Terming the differences as minor irritants "like (those) between husband and wife",   has said he is ready to mediate to ensure better ties if the party asks him to do so. 

 "I hope the alliance will continue as there are no ideological differences between us," he said. "However, there are no permanent friends or enemies in politics and anything can happen in cricket and politics," he added.
 
 The BJP leader, however, stressed that he did not want to return to the state politics. "I was a bit upset when I went to the Centre. But now I am busy in work. I do not want to come back and I won't at any cost," he said.
 
 He also backed chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on the controversial audio tape released by Sena in Palghar last Friday. The CM is purportedly heard advocating the use of "Saam, Daam, Dand, Bhed" to win the bypoll. Gadkari said, "I cannot believe that Fadnavis would make these statements. It must have been misinterpreted by others. Fadnavis is a gentleman and cultured person."
 
  The minister also urged parties not to mix politics with development. "To oppose the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project is immature politics. Every country has a bullet train and it would be first of its kind in India. The next phase can be Mumbai-Delhi or another route. Everyone should support the development initiatives," Gadkari said. 
 
 Rejecting allegations that his son was the contractor for building the flyover in Varanasi which collapsed, Gadkari said, "Neither my son or nor any family member of mine has anything to do with any state or the Centre related tender or contract."
 
 On the demand for statehood for Vidarbha, the Union minister remarked that the BJP is always in favour of formation of smaller states. "It (the proposal) needs two-third majority in the Lok Sabha and without the   support it won't happen. So, we need their support to make Vidarbha a state like Telangana," he said.
 
  Asked about rising fuel prices, the minister said, "Although petrol and diesel prices are high, the prices of essential commodities are low. So 'Achhe din' is like a 'belief' and your acceptance of things." 
 
 
