There is no stopping Leander Paes. He has proven time and again that age is just a number if you have the determination, passion and an unending desire to win. Just a week ago, he created another record as the most successful doubles player in the history of  . Surely there’s more to come, but it is getting tougher by the day, admits the legendary tennis player. “It gets harder every year to keep pushing the body and mind,” Leander told us in a candid chat, where he also spoke about the changes he had to make to his fitness schedule, his future plans, the rapport he shares with Mahesh Bhupathi today and his strong daughter, Aiyana. 

 
 With a laugh! I remember talking about the age factor a couple of years ago; at that time I said age is just a number. Now, I just laugh about it. But seriously, the tennis ball that you hold does not feel an age, it feels the power and speed, the spin and the energy on it. Regardless of my age, if I am still able to contribute and make a difference, win matches, tournaments and create world records, then why not? In my whole career, I have aimed at winning championships and Grand Slams, and I’m glad that I have been able to achieve what I set out to do. I don’t know how much longer I will play. Right now, I play because I have to put bread and butter on the table. Also, every match that I play now seems to be some sort of a record and that’s enjoyable; it’s quite motivating on hard days. People don’t see what goes on behind the scenes, the hard yards that it takes at 45. Ten years ago, I would put in around six to seven hours a day, and the results would come pretty quick. Now, I put in 10 to 12 hours a day because the results don’t come as fast. It’s much harder now. You have to do more to the body... more stretching, more yoga, more fitness.
 
 
 Yes, a lot of changes in terms of fitness. For example, I don’t need to play as much tennis now. My on-court tennis time, which used to be five hours a day earlier has come down to three hours; the remaining two hours now goes into my fitness regime. Staying injury-free at this age is very important because the body doesn’t recover as fast from it. 
 
 
 Of course it does. Talking about my genetics, I am really blessed. It’s not just my inherent speed, agility or concentration, I’ve had to work on my technique and fitness too. I am so grateful to my parents for what they have done for me. They have been great pillars of strength, especially dad’s knowledge which comes from being an Olympic champion and a doctor. He is fastidious about my training regime. Earlier, he was able to travel with me, he doesn’t now, but he still has a huge role to play. He is my guiding light. 
 
 
 I have thought about it many times. The first time I almost gave up tennis was when I was 19. Just a year before that, I was No. 1 at the Juniors and I had not lost a single match. The year I turned 19, I didn’t win a single match that whole year and I also wasn’t able to come home. As an individual athlete, you have to handle everything yourself, so I was quite fed up and I thought to myself, ‘What am I doing? This is crazy!’ That was the first time. Thereafter, there have been several times when I thought that it’s time to quit. More recently, when I won the French Open with Martina Hingis in 2016; I felt my career was complete. But then I also felt that I had to earn a living.
 
 
 The athletes and the people I look up to left when they were at the top. Michael Jordan, Pete Sampras, Rod Laver, Martina Navratilova and Muhammad Ali were all at the peak of their careers when they retired. If I stop tomorrow, I will have no regrets, I have had such a blessed career. If I wake up tomorrow and say that I have had enough, I don’t want to travel, I don’t want to put in the hard yards that it takes in this difficult profession, I will be very satisfied. My team is actually struggling to find newer things that can motivate me. Earlier it was go win a French Open, go win a US Open, then in the last three years, it was the Davis Cup record.
 
 
 No thoughts on that at all. Maybe in a year from now, I will evaluate things.
 
 
 If you look at Rohan and my record, we have a 90 per cent winning record together. What I focus on is playing for the country... that’s more important than individuals. That’s something Mahesh (Bhupathi) and I were able to do for so many years. We are very different personalities, but what we respect about each other is that whenever it came to playing for the country, we always put our best foot forward. That meant 24 undefeated matches; that’s a lot. 
 
 
 We have a very quirky relationship. We have known each other since we were kids and for majority of our careers, we have played together. We have seen some of the greatest highs and lowest lows together. At the end of the day, we both respect what we have done as a team and as individuals. Also, we were able to prove to young India that our country can be No. 1 in the world. In any team when you have many people, you are going to have difference of opinions. But that’s what makes the team hold. It’s always a team effort. Even when you talk about my records, it’s actually India’s records. Everyone has contributed to it. Mahesh is a part of it, Rohan is a part of it. Zeeshan Ali, Purav Raja, Gaurav Natekar, Vishal Uppal and Ramesh Krishnan are all a part of it. It’s not just one or two years that we are talking about, it’s 29 years. Everyone from my parents and daughter, to my coaches, trainers, the Davis Cup captains and my past teammates are a part of it. 
 
 
 During 'Rajdhani Express', I learnt about the nuances of making a good film. It was something new for me and I thoroughly enjoyed myself. I learnt that if I was to do another movie, the most important thing is the script, the director and the production house. 
 
 
 My great great grandfather was the Bengali poet Michael Madhusudan Dutt. He was an immensely creative man, he wrote rebel poetry right through the British rule and he was a freedom fighter. It’s just that I was born to parents who were athletes. So, ironing my mum’s and dad’s Indian jerseys fuelled my passion to win an Olympic medal. Playing for India is the greatest motivation for me. I would say that my talent actually lies in football and other creative areas, but I chose tennis because it is an Olympic and individual sport.
 
 
 
 It still is. I love football, then basketball, hockey and tennis. In cricket, I like the shorter format and I have got some close friends in the cricketing fraternity. 
 
 
 I can’t speak about that because the matter is in court. Every human being goes through ups and downs. For me the most important thing is that I have parents to look after, I have a daughter to look after and I have a career to conduct; I have to earn a living through it. 
 
 
 Yes and she reckons her backhands are better than mine, which is probably true (smiles). Aiyana is fast and tough, she is a leader. She has got a mind of her own and just like my dad, she is very passionate about what she wants. 
 
 
