BELAGAVI/KALABURAGI: Union minister  , who barely a month ago tendered an apology in Parliament for demanding the Constitution be changed, has courted another controversy.

 On a two-day visit to   and Kalaburagi, Hegde said intellectuals and littérateurs showcase their works only to bag government plots. He went on to call leaders representing the   region as ‘nalayak’(unfit), for allegedly failing to utilise funds for the region’s development.
 
 Hegde made the comment on intellectuals at an interaction, titled ‘Skills on Wheels’, with students at the KLE College in Belagavi on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 
 Whatever litterateurs scribble becomes literary work. Their writings have no relevance or meaning and all this is done to get a site from the state government,” he said. “These so-called intellectuals ask me to become ahuman being. I was born a human being. Am I an animal? After being born a human being, our next goal should be to get near to God. All these people lack vision (drishti dosha). They should stop making such sweeping remarks.”
 
 A video of Hegde’s remarks went viral on Wednesday and drew flak from writers. Chief minister Siddaramaiah claimed it was a “waste of energy” to react to Hegde’s statements and added: “Being an MP, he should know how to behave and speak. He is an irresponsible fellow.”
 
 Hegde continued his tirade in Kalaburagi. Speaking after inaugurating a job fair organized by the  , he claimed politicians who do not have the vision to develop “this (Hyderabad-Karnatak) region” are “naalayaks”. He said the role of elected representatives was not restricted to inaugurating works.
 
 In an indirect attack on   leaders from the region, Hegde said there were too few industries in the region. The reason, he said, was a lack of interest on the part of local representatives. “There should be at least 25-30 industries,” he said. “People have not been elected to indulge in fun and masti (frolic). Those who cannot understand the problems of this region...should be condemned. If people of Hyderabad-Karnatak region come forward to open a new varsity for skill development, I am ready to provide it.”
 
 
