
    were forced to spend almost the entire day at the home airport and took off for their Indian Super League encounter against   just 90 minutes before scheduled kickoff at the   stadium in Kolkata on Wednesday.
 
  FC Goa were originally scheduled to depart for Kolkata by a chartered flight on Tuesday morning but after two delays, when the flight finally took off, it had to make an emergency landing in Goa due to technical issues.
  
  The club then decided to charter another flight to Kolkata on match day itself but when the team boarded the flight at 10am and were ready for take-off, they were told there are “technical issues” that still needed to be sorted out.
  
  FC Goa waited for their moment at the airport itself but then their schedule was further disrupted after a MiG 29K combat aircraft of the   caught fire after it veered off the runway at the airport. The incident led to operations at the   being suspended for close to two hours, leading to more delays.
  
  When their chartered flight finally took off at 6.30pm, nobody really knew if they would make it for the match on time. An hour’s delay was already made official by the league but FC Goa landed in Kolkata only at 9.05pm.
  
  ISL organisers first pushed the match back by an hour and then decided to play the match at 9.45pm as the club had not reached Kolkata by 9pm. ISL rules stipulate that matches can be delayed for a maximum of two hours, but Goa’s plight meant ATK were considerate enough to agree to further delays.
  
  “We tried all that we could to reach the stadium much earlier but things were beyond our control. This was a maddening day,” a senior club official told TOI.
  
  There was more drama even when FC Goa reached the stadium – escorted by the police from the airport straight to the stadium -- and started their warm up routine. When they returned to the dressing room, realisation dawned that they had left their playing kit behind!
  
  The match finally kicked off at 10.45pm, the first time an ISL match has ever been delayed since inception in 2014.
  
  The match was originally scheduled to be played on December 31 but was postponed after ATK made it clear that the Kolkata police were unwilling to provide security on new year’s eve.
