NAGPUR: At a time when central and state governments are trying to promote use of electric vehicles, cab aggregator  , which had promised to run 200 e-vehicles in the city, is plying only 83 electric vehicles in nearly 10 months since the announcement.

 Incidentally, Ola, which claims to be the largest mobility platform in the counrty, had announced the decision to run 200+ e-vehicles in the presence of Union transport minister  .
 
 This is despite the fact that passengers are preferring e-cabs over autorickshaws and also due to parking problems faced by vehicle owners due to ongoing infrastructural works like   and cement roads etc.
 
 Last year on May 26 last year,   had launched its first ever electric-powered transport ecosystem in Nagpur city by investing Rs50 crore. It was supposed to ply 200 vehicles (including e-cabs, e-rickshaws and e-buses) on city roads. Though Ola is not divulging the exact number of eco-friendly cabs on city streets, data from the RTO revealed only 67 e-taxis and 16 e-rickshaws were registered by Ola. On the other hand, Nagpur city and east regional transport offices have registered 1,289 e-rickshaws in the last couple of months.
 
 Ola had said it would make 50 charging points available across four locations in Nagpur — a city of about 25 lakh — for its fleet of 200 electric vehicles. However,  , an international news agency, found only about a dozen charging points in the city. Ola has since added 10 additional charging points but is still short of its target.
 
 Though Ola has refused to divulge the response it is getting in Nagpur, its cab drivers said they are receiving good support. One of its drivers, requesting anonymity, said on an average he is getting around 10-12 bookings every day in a city like Nagpur where the number of autorickshaws is more.
 
 Another driver added that only disappointment was that recently the company has started imposing 25% commission on each trip. Besides this, the driver has to pay Rs1,000 per day to Ola and Rs300 for charging of e-cab. He, however, claimed that he is happy with the commuter response.
 
 Contrary to this, reports by Reuters claimed poor response to the app-based taxi company in the hometown of Union transport minister. Out of 20 Ola electric car drivers interviewed by Reuters in Nagpur, more than a dozen said they have either returned their e-taxis and switched to diesel or are planning to do so.
 
  government too has announced its Electric Vehicle Policy 2018 to support faster EV adoption in the state. Under the new policy, a subsidy of 15 % of the total cost of the EV has been announced for the buyer. To further bring down EV prices, the government has also exempted them from road tax and registration fees.
 
 TOI had sent an e-mail query to Ola seeking information about response of the commuters, number of vehicles plying against its promise of 200 and number of charging stations/ points in the city. However, Ola did not provide information regarding the queries and instead said the company is fulfilling the government mandate for cab aggregators by launching eco-friendly cabs.
 
 
