HYDERABAD: IT, industries, mines and municipal administration minister   on Thursday met   Nirmala Sitharaman and requested her to include Hyderabad in the defence industrial production corridor, which was announced recently by Union finance minister  . 

 While presenting the budget, Jaitley had announced that two corridors would be developed for defence production, both in the public as well as the private sector. It may be mentioned that in the public sector, a lot of defence production takes place in Hyderabad. A number of private firms are also associated with this. If Hyderabad is added in the defence industrial production corridors, more private sector manufacturing companies will get involved. 
 
 A few days after Jaitley's budget announcement, Sitharaman said the first corridor would link Chennai, Bengaluru and Coimbatore. Since a second corridor is yet to be announced, K T Rama Rao pitched for Hyderabad to be included in it. 
 
 On his visit to New Delhi, Rama Rao, accompanied by TRS MPs, also met Union minister of environment Harsh Vardhan and requested him to expedite the process of environmental clearance for Hyderabad Pharma City.   described the project as being of 'national importance'. 
 
 Proposed by the state government, the Hyderabad Pharma City is to come up on 19,331 acres in Ranga Reddy district. An environmental hearing for the project was also held. A green signal from the Union ministry of environment and forests is needed for the 64,000 crore project. Land has already been acquired from farmers in most of the villagers. 
 
  minister for mines Narendra Singh Tomar, KTR invited him for the mining conference to be held in the city on Feb 14. The   (MEAI) and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), with the support of state government, are jointly organizing 'Mining Today 2018-International Conference-cum-Exhibition' at HITEX Exhibition Centre from Feb 14-17. 
 
 The conference is being organised to bring together mining entrepreneurs and provide them exposure to latest technology. According to the organisers, mining is one of the core sectors that drives growth of an economy and acts as a catalyst for growth of other core industries like power, steel, cement, aerospace and defence. 
 
 
