PATNA: Just 3% of pregnant women in state’s rural areas get  , the lowest among all other states in the country, according to the findings of   (NHFS)-4 (2015-16) which were released by Unicef on the eve of International Women’s Day on Wednesday.

 Prenatal care, also known as antenatal care (ANC), is the care the pregnant women receive from healthcare professionals during pregnancy. The NHFS report stated that the percentage of pregnant women in  , who had received the only first ANC out of the designated four ANCs, was 34%. The ANCs include interventions such as tetanus toxoid (TT) injection, measurement of blood pressure, iron folic acid tablets distribution, taking blood and urine sample, prevention from malaria by insecticide-treated bed-nets and counselling on pregnancy complications and HIV.
 
 “There is a need to track this dropout rate among women receiving ANC. A pregnant woman should take 300 more calories than normal calorie intake. However, there is no data in Bihar that can reveal how much calories are being taken by the pregnant women,” said Dr Syed Hubbe Ali, a Unicef health specialist. 
 
 The state government has also failed to procure essential iron and folic acid supplements from past two years. These supplements were to be given to children under Weekly Iron and Folic Acid Supplementation (WIFS) programme to meet the challenge of the high prevalence of anaemia.
 
 WIFS programme under   (RKSK) was launched in the country in 2014. “The weekly supplements of iron and folic acid is provided to children between 10 and 19 years of age, who are either in school or out of school,” Dr Ali said.
 
 Dr Y N Pathak, state programme officer of the nursing cell of  , however, said tender has already been floated and a firm shortlisted to supply supplements.
 
 As per NHFS-4, 58.7% of women population in the age group of 15 to 49 years in state’s urban areas and 60.5% of women in rural areas are suffering from anaemia against the national average of 51% and 54.3%, respectively.
 
 “Malnutrition is the result of a vicious intergenerational cycle. If a girl child is suffering from malnutrition, they get infected easily. This, in turn, adversely affects the iron absorption in their body. A child suffering from malnutrition grows into a weak and anaemic mother, which, in turn, leads to the birth of a weak child,” Dr Ali said. 
 
 
