LUDHIANA: The son of an assistant sub-inspector and his five friends thrashed a 25-year-old youth to death and injured his friend near bus stand in the early hours of Monday. 

 The deceased,   Kumar of Labour Colony in  , and his friend, Deepak Kumar, had gone to an eating joint to buy milk when the group attacked them. 
 
 In his police complaint, Deepak, a salesman, said, "Varinder and I, along with our three other friends, were celebrating New Year in our residential area. All of us are neighbours and the celebrations continued till the wee hours. As it was freezing cold, we decided to prepare tea. But there was no milk. Varinder, an employee at a barber shop in Dhoka Mohalla, and I went on a motorcycle to a dhaba, near bus stand, to buy a packet of milk." 
 
 While Deepak waited outside the eating joint, Varinder went in to make the purchase. "A group of youths was sitting outside the dhaba. When Varinder called me, the group thought he had abused them. They soon collared Varinder and started arguing with him. As tempers frayed, the group started raining blows on Varinder. When I ran to his rescue, they attacked me, too, with baseball bats. All six of them were drunk."
 
 While Deepak managed to escape from there, the youths assaulted Varinder with baseball bats and sharp-edged weapons. 
 
 "A few minutes later, I returned with my three friends. An injured Varinder was lying on the road, while the group had fled. We took Varinder to a private hospital in Civil Lines. There, the doctors referred him to PGI, Chandigarh. On Monday morning, he succumbed to injuries on way to PGI," Deepak added. 
 
 Division 5 police station SHO inspector Jatinder Singh said, "A murder case has been registered against the six accused. Five of them have been identified as Mandeep Kumar, son of an ASI and resident of Police Colony, his friends Shubham, Aman, Sajan and Sachin Pabbi, all residents of Sham Nagar. Their turbaned friend, who is the sixth accused, is yet to be identified." 
 
 While Mandeep has been arrested, his friends are on the run. 
 
 All six had gone there in Mandeep's car to have dinner. "The car had a   sticker. Deepak had noted down its registration number. We are yet to ascertain if the accused were drunk," the station house officer added. 
 
 
