ALWAR: It’s an ambience ideal for an election. Foggy mornings and a sudden dip in temperatures have prompted people to squat around small bonfires across the nook and corner of   Lok Sabha constituency. Be it senior citizens grabbing hukka or chilam and playing cards at village squares or the shawl-wrapping middle-aged men sipping tea alongside roads in urban areas, everyone seems to have the time and zeal to discuss politics. The extended weekend beginning from the republic day till the polling day on January 29 has driven even office-going people to share their report cards on politicians, right from the councilors to the prime minister.

 ‘Takkar tagdi hai (it’s a tough contest)’, is how the locals begin the conversation when a stranger seeks their opinion on how the bypoll is headed for the parliamentary seat. Prod a little, and sub-groups emerge in these corner gatherings, clearly showing which way they are tilted.
 
 The seat has a direct fight between   candidate Jaswant Singh Yadav (64) and   candidate Karan Singh Yadav (72). The BJP candidate is a cabinet minister and a sitting MLA from Behror, which is part of Alwar Lok Sabha, while the Congress candidate has represented Behror assembly seat as well as Alwar parliamentary seat in the past.
 
 Both the parties chose to field Yadav candidates as the community has maximum voters and is said to be among the politically most active ones here. Election observers believe Alwar’s Yadav politics takes shape in Behror. “We live on the midway between the national capital and the state capital. We have to be politically more active than others,” laughs one Karamveer Yadav, a businessman in Behror.
 
 So, which way are the Yadav votes tilted? As one moves from Behror and its rural areas to Mundawar, Tijara (including Bhiwadi), Kishangarh Bas and Alwar’s rural and urban assembly areas, the Yadavs offer different ratios on how the scale would weigh, giving an advantage to the senior Yadav. “One of our men is already a minister so why not vote for another one from among us and increase our representation,” reasons Rajesh Yadav, a businessman in Alwar.
 
 Anti-incumbency, arrogance of local MLAs, controversies surrounding SC/ST reservation and the Pehlu Khan lynching case are the talking points in corner meetings. “Our areas do not have even roads,” says Asgar Khan, a businessman in Bhiwadi, one being asked about development in the area. “We haven’t seen any development funds being allocated for our areas,” says Hafiz Fajruddin of Chopanki industrial area.
 
 At the same time, the locals stand staunchly behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The PM is doing a great job; it’s our MLAs who are letting us down,” says a senior citizen from Pipli village along the Jaipur-Delhi highway. “It’s the local leadership that we are opposed to,” says Ajit Singh Yadav, a businessman in Behror.
 
 
