MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The race to acquire India’s second largest hospital chain,  , took an interesting turn on Thursday with Sunil Munjal-led Hero Enterprise and the Burmans of Dabur joining hands to offer a Rs 1,250 crore investment in the company. The development comes even as the Fortis board has approved a takeover offer from   Hospitals and is also fielding a non-binding rival offer from Malaysia’s  .

 
 The   and Burmans already own 3% in the troubled hospital network rendered without a promoter after Shivinder and   quit the board in February. 
 
  
  
 
 The combine has proposed a two-stage transaction valuing Fortis at Rs 156 per share, just above Manipal’s offer at Rs 155 apiece.
 
 The family offices of the two prominent Delhi business groups plan to infuse Rs 500 crore into Fortis immediately through a preferential offer and follow up with another Rs 750 crore through a similar offer within three weeks. “The said proposal is under evaluation by the company,” Fortis said in a statement to the exchanges. “The utilisation of proceeds from this funding should only be used for paying dues to Fortis’s employees, repayment of loans and payment to pressing creditors,” the bid document noted.
 
 “This offer has been made to immediately infuse funds into the liquidity-starved company,” Sunil Munjal, promoter of Hero Enterprise, told TOI. He said that their offer was the most attractive one, and a fairly clean and straightforward proposition, which could be concluded faster than any other offers on the table. “We will put money into the company. We are not calling for taking out assets. We intend to work with the existing system by putting in liquidity that is in short supply,” Munjal said.
 
 Sources said the Fortis management may be tempted to take up the offer of Munjals and Burmans as it fixes short-term funding problem and also gives them breathing space to improve shareholder value. On the other hand, the offer by Manipal aims at creating the country’s largest private healthcare business, unlock operational synergies and build value down the road.
 
 On Wednesday, the Manipal Group, controlled by billionaire Ranjan Pai, had offered Fortis shareholders a revised offer at Rs 155 per share after a shareholder revolt, while Malaysian major IHH Healthcare came up with a non-binding offer capped at Rs 160 per share. Fortis board is seeking legal opinion on whether they should consider the non-binding offer from IHH, sources said. Other potential bidders are Radiant Life Care, which is backed by KKR & Co, and Dubai-based VPS Healthcare.
 
 With the Munjal-Burman offer on the table, the Fortis board may now be forced to put at least two binding offers to its shareholders to vote on. Fortis had signed exclusivity with Manipal till its extraordinary general meeting, which is extendable by another 18 months, if shareholders approve it.
 
 Earlier, there was buzz about the Fortis management and its ex-promoters—brothers Malvinder and Shivinder Singh who earlier were the promoters of Ranbaxy Laboratories—working with a few prominent Delhi families to bail out the business that is facing a liquidity crunch. Past rumours suggest that incumbent boards were keen on working with the two prominent business families since that would have allowed management continuity. The Munjal-Burman family office also demanded one board seat on Fortis Healthcare.
 
 Hospitals business is not a new sector for the Munjals of the Hero group who currently run the Dayanand Medical & Nursing College in Ludhiana, which has over 1,500 beds, its bid document said. Burmans too have private equity investments in the healthcare sector. Earlier in the day, the Fortis stock jumped over 4% on expectations of a formal announcement by IHH. The stock on BSE closed at Rs 154.
 
 
