This year's Vivo   has had an incredible start. Apart from the Hyderabad Sunrisers' easy win in their opening match, the rest of the games have all gone down the nail biting route with victories achieved off the final delivery or the last over of the game. 

 
 
 
 It is these touch and go situations that has made this format such a popular one in an age where the attention span of individuals has shrunk considerably. What also makes the IPL unique is that the fan gets to see all aspects of the game in fast forward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 There is quality fast bowling, top-class spin bowling, aggressive batting with some wonderful creative shots and the spectator, be it at the ground or on TV gets entertained thoroughly. The pitches also have been top-class so far and that's a huge reason for the quality of cricket that's been seen so far.
 
 There are few entertainers in the game as brilliant as the South African   and he came up with another standout performance that gave the Bangalore team their first win of the tournament. 
 
 
  
  
 
 They will be hoping that he continues in the same vein, as they take on the Rajasthan team who have started the tournament well. Both teams have top batsmen but maybe a bit short on class as far as the bowling department is concerned but that's exactly what the fans want, where they can see bowlers being thrashed to all parts of the ground and sometimes out of it too.
 
 The red-hot team at the moment is the Chennai team, which has made a remarkable comeback not just in the competition after a two year suspension but also in the matches they have played.  's calm seems to have been absorbed by his team mates, as they have kept cool in crunch positions and won when it looked that they were losing. 
 
 Captains have a huge role to play, for it's the vital decisions that they take that can turn the game their sides' way. However, too much time is taken up, especially towards the final overs of every innings, as a committee gets together on the field to discuss bowling changes and field placing. 
 
 This does not make it easy for the younger fans who have to stay up almost till midnight to watch or even leave the ground where transportation is not easily available.
 
 The Umpires need to come in to stop skippers taking too much time, for it interrupts the flow of the game and while that may be a tactical thing to do, it does not help the paying spectator at all. He wants to see action all the time and he is the one that has to be thought of more than who should bowl the final over of the innings.
 
