HYDERABAD:   expressed concern over rise in   after recent arrest of a 23-year-old man who threw toilet cleaner on a girl, after she declined his proposal. According to She Teams, an average of eight stalking cases are recorded every month. Shockingly, nearly 25% of the victims are minors in the age group of 15 to 17 years. 

 "We receive three types of stalking cases - one where a friend or colleague stalk a woman and pressurise her to accept their love proposal, second where a woman talks to an unknown person on social media and he later starts stalking and harassing her and third - the most serious case - is when the victim is in a relationship with the accused and they get sexually involved, but later when she stops talking to the accused, he threatens the victim with her pictures and videos or turn up at her house to harass her," said D Kavitha, ACP, She Teams.
 
 During decoy operations every month, She Teams catch several people for harassing women and nearly 30% of them are found stalking women. "Most of the victims feel restricted and have lose faith in people after such incidents happen. It leaves a big impact on their life," said Shikha Goel, ACP (Crime) and She Teams head.
 
 Goel said most stalkers don't accept 'no' from the victims. "The accused consider stalking as a normal way of pursuing a woman. Most cases happen due to social fabric, where expressing love to a woman is considered as a macho thing. Some men also think that if they pursue a girl persistently, she will accept their proposal."
 
 A women rights activist said Indian movies play a huge role in normalising stalking. "In many Indian movies or songs, the lead actors will be shown stalking the actress, till she accepts his proposal. For years movies have been showing that a girl's 'no means yes' and when the young generation is exposed to such content, it impacts their behaviour," said Jameela Nishat, a women rights activist. 
 
 In 2017, cyber crime police recorded 24 stalking cases. Officials said less than 20% of victims file FIR and most victims give a verbal complaint. 
 
 
