SHIMLA: In   gangrape and murder case,   (CBI) will submit its status report before   on Wednesday. After the last hearing on March 29,   has arrested one person in this case and he too would be presented before the Court. All eyes are set on the status report to be filed and what the investigating agency reveals in the court.

 It was on July 6, 2017 morning that the recovery of the naked body of a minor school girl, who was studying in class 10th, from the Halaila forest of Kotkhai area had left the people of this area shell shocked. Public outburst later resulted into violent protests demonstrations especially after the custodial killing of one of the arrested “accused” Suraj Singh.
 
 On the direction of the high court, CBI had registered the case on July 22 last year and taken over the investigation. As there is no clue about the real accused, CBI had even announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh to anyone from general public for providing credible information resulting in arrest of real accused in the case.
 
 On Monday, CBI had taken the arrested accused to Dandhi forest area of Kotkhai where the naked body of deceased minor girl was recovered on the morning of July 6 last year.
 
 Unhappy with the failure of CBI to crack the case, state High Court on March 28 had stated that even eight months after taking over the investigation, CBI is clueless with regard to the whereabouts of the persons engaged and involved in the heinous crime.
 
 A division bench of Acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sandeep Sharma had also observed that it is only reminded of the fact that crime relates to the rape and murder of a 16 years old girl child, which had evoked great anger and pain in the entire State.
 
 “Are we to understand that officers of CBI are not competent enough to unearth the crime, of such a nature, within past eight months? After all, as we understand, it is not a case of destruction of evidence. It is also not that investigation is to be conducted in a foreign land/off shore,” the court had added.
 
