HYDERABAD: It is that time of the year again when chants of folk songs fill the air, friends and families huddle around bonfires, dancing to the beats of dhol, roasting groundnuts and feasting on gajak, til and revadi. Lohri, the biggest thanksgiving festival of Punjabis, has arrived. 

 The much-awaited festival, usually celebrated on January 13 every year, is much more than community revelry. Lohri is a celebration of the winter solstice, the longest night and shortest day of the year. "The bonfire festival signifies the end of cold, gloomy winter, marking the arrival of spring and the onset of harvest season in Punjab," Baldev  , president  , told TOI. 
 
 The festival celebrates the farmers' elation for a good harvest of rabi crops. "It is observed as a day of thanksgiving to God by farmers. It is for this reason that sweets like revadi made out of til (sesame), chikki made from gur (jaggery) and groundnut and gajak (made from  ) are offered to bonfire and also eaten," he added. Lohri is ideal time for harvest of sugarcane and is symbolic to the festival.
 
 As per tradition, the first Lohri of a newly-wed woman and the birth of a newborn is also celebrated with enthusiasm. Yogesh Sarpal, chairman of  , said: "On this day, every Punjabi household is in a festive mood, distributing sweets like gajak, revadi along with popcorn and peanuts." 
 
 Lohri fervor intensifies at sunset when traditional bonfires are lit on front yards. Neeta Sawhney, who hails from Agra and has been in Secunderabad for four years, says, "Bonfire is an integral part of Lohri. It symbolizes the God of Fire and the flames carry a message to the Sun for bringing warmer days." Lohri festivities are incomplete without the scrumptious feast that follows after bonfires are lit.
 
 Gurudwara Saheb, Secunderabad will hold shabad keertan from 7pm to 9pm followed by lighting of bonfire. The   will also hold Guru ka langar, free mass meal for all in the evening. A Lohri Mela by the Punjabi Seva Samithi will be held on Sunday at Mehboob College, Patny Centre, Secunderabad.
 
