CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court granted bail to two accused in a Registeration and   (RLA) scam. RLA agent Pankaj Mahajan and taxi driver Karan Passi were accused of forging documents for registering luxury cars. 

 The matter dates back to February 26, 2018 when the two were arrested by the vigilance bureau. In their bail application, they had argued that they have been falsely implicated by police and have no connection with the scam. They added that police had completed interrogation and had made no incriminating recovery from them. The  , on the other hand, had opposed the bail application saying that the investigation in the case was still under progress.
 
 During the investigation, Karan's name had cropped up in the documents submitted to vigilance in RLA. An application for registration of a luxury car was submitted in his name wherein he was shown to be a managing director of a company. Vigilance found the car to be registered in the name of a  . 
 
 When vigilance interrogated Mehra, he disclosed that he had got the car registered through  , to whom he had submitted the documents for registration. While going through the documents, it was discovered that Pankaj had registered two of  's car-an Audi make and a Land Rover-in the name of Karan. A photograph of Karan was included in the file along with his details as MD. The vigilance arresred Karan and Pankaj Mehra. 
 
 The vigilance bureau had received a complaint on June 10, 2016, that some cars were being registered on fake documents, following which three cars were then recovered from Delhi and  , whose owners are yet to be nabbed. Vigilance officials had stated that invoices of these vehicles were tampered with to show their cost lesser than the actual one so as to pay less registration fee. 
 
 Chandigarh: The Chandigarh district court granted bail to Two accused in the RLA fake registration scam. Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA) agent Pankaj Mahajan and Taxi driver Karan Passi are the accused in the case. They are accused of forging documents and registering luxury cars.
 
 The matter dates back to February 26, 2018 when they were arrested by Vigilance Bureau .In their bail application, they had argued that they have been falsely implicated by the police and have no connection with the scam. They added that police had completed interrogation and no recovery is to be made from them. The vigilance had opposed the bail saying that the investigation in the case was still on. 
 
 During the investigation, Karan 's name had cropped up in the documents submitted to vigilance in RLA. An application for registration of a high end car was submitted in his name wherein he was shown to be a Managing Director of a company. Vigilance found the car to be registered in the name of a Gautam Mehra. When vigilance interrogated him, he disclosed that he had got the car registered through Pankaj Mehra, to whom he had submitted the documents for registration. While going through the documents, it was discovered that Pankaj had registered two of Gaurav Mehra's car; an Audi make and a Land Rover in the name of Karan. 
 
 A photograph of Karan was included in the file along with his details as MD. The vigilance arresred Karan and Mehra .The vigilance department had received a complaint on June 10 that some cars were being registered on fake documents. Thus, filed of four such vehicles were confiscated by Vigilance. Three cars were then recovered from Delhi and Panipat but their owners are yet to be nabbed. Vigilance officials had stated that invoices of these vehicles were tampered with to show their cost less than the actual one so as to pay less for registration. 
 
 
