MUMBAI: While many a poet would wax eloquent about how a river bank or a forest inspires him to write verse,  , a conservancy  , says he has had the pleasure of penning poetry inside a garbage truck while seated atop a heap of junk. The 49-year-old, who had failed his Class X, recently won the first prize in a poetry-writing competition organized by a literature group in Shegaon, Buldhana.

 
 Dhivar has worked for the   for the past 25 years and most of his working days are spent inside dumping grounds or cleaning the city’s streets. 
 
 While a majority of his fellow workers took to alcoholism to mask the difficulties of their job, he chose to write. Dhivar has written more than 200 poems and several verses in a truck on its way to a dumping ground. “Some of my poems have been published in more than 10 books. These books are compilations of works of several poets. I also have a solo book coming up in the next two months,” an excited Dhivar told TOI at his residence in a Mukund Nagar chawl at  .
 
 Dhivar said he has been inspired by the well-known poet Narayan Surve who is credited with giving the working class a voice in Marathi literature. The first poem that Dhivar wrote in year 2000 was titled ‘Ase kuthvar chalayche (How long can we go on like this)?’ 
 
 “The poem talked about the status of women in our families and their fight for equal rights,” said Dhivar. 
 
 He first came to Mumbai from a small village in Purandar taluka near Pune city in the early 1990s after appearing for his Class X exam to earn a living. He had lost his father at the age of 13.
 
 “I first lived with my sister in her marital home; it was a 10 ft-by-10 ft shed in Chembur. The area was a marsh at that time,” said Dhivar and added that for the first few years he did odd jobs to survive and then began to sweep the streets for the BMC. 
 
 “In the early 1990s, there was water scarcity in several parts of the state, especially Marathwada. Several families from Beed had migrated to Mumbai then and landed contractual jobs with the BMC,” he said.
 
 After working as a contractual staff for nearly five to seven years, the workers decided to form a union—Kachra Vahatuk Sangh— to fight for the rights of labourers and demanded that the BMC give them a permanent status. Dhivar, too, was actively involved in the protests and also wrote several catch lines and   for them. 
 
 “He has contributed immensely to these protests. Through his writings and strike calls, these protests got a lot of traction,” said Milind Ranade, general secretary of the union.
 
 Ranande especially remembers one of Dhivar’s poems that he had written for the protest titled ‘Yaaro, humne panga le liye’ (Friends, we have picked our fight)’. Following the protests, Dhivar and several other labourers were made permanent by the BMC.
 
 Most of his poems talk about the deplorable condition of the labour class that works in the sanitation area and social issues like gender equality, condition of women, domestic violence, HIV, rape and even rampant alcoholism.
 
 “I have been writing for a long time, but now my son has taught me to post my writings on Facebook and WhatsApp, which has got me a lot of appreciation from known as well as unknown people,” said Dhivar.
 
 
