NEW DELHI: There was a time when   was an indispensable force in  . Indian’s foreign coaches of the past often hailed Sardar’s indomitable spirit as the celebrated Olympian controlled the midfield with elan during his prime. But of late, Sardar’s tactical acumen and silken touch seemed to have deserted him – partly due to his age and a legal proceeding against him where he’s been accused of sexual harassment.

 
 He was no longer the “go-to-man” or the “vital cog” in Indian hockey, as evident from his sacking from India’s previous two tournaments – Hockey World League (HWL) Final in Bhubaneswar and last month’s tour to New Zealand. So, when the 31-year-old was struggling to keep his place in the team, even playing as a “free man” in whatever little opportunity he got under head coach  , Tuesday’s development gave his career a fresh, happy turn.
 
 Sardar was unexpectedly picked by Marijne as the captain of the 18-member Indian squad for the 27th   to be held in Ipoh, Malaysia from March 3. The Punjab player will be back in his favourite midfield position in the tournament.
 
 For Sardar, this news has come with its own set of challenges. He is aware that a good performance in the Azlan Shah would add longevity to his career with the Indian team, keeping the forthcoming Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and men’s World Cup in mind. A podium finish for India at the Azlan Shah, coupled with his own individual brilliance, could help Sardar in cementing his place in the side for future major championships, even the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. A bad script would probably bring curtains down on his illustrious career.
 
 Sardar knows that this a “make-or-break” chance for him in the absence of regular skipper  .
 
 “I know this is a crucial year for me. It’s natural to have this realisation. If I want to play in the Tokyo Olympics, then I will have to perform really well in coming tournaments. It’s been going on for long where no one’s place is permanent in this team. It depends on how you perform and what your targets are. My targets are Asian Games and World Cup, with an eye on Tokyo. Azlan Shah is certainly going to be very challenging. My experience will definitely count,” Sardar told TOI.
 
 “My body is holding up well. I am feeling physically better. I have been working extra time on my fitness, diet and proper rest. In my last tournament for India (Asia Cup), I played as a free man (any playing position as deemed fit by the coach), that too after a long gap of 6-7 years (Sardar last played as free man in 2011-12 when Michael Nobbs was the coach). But midfield is where I always aspire to ply my trade. This is an opportunity to wrest my position back,” he added.
 
 At the Azlan Shah, Sardar will play in the midfield alongside S K Uthappa, Sumit, Nilakanta Sharma and Simranjeet Singh. Mandeep Mor, Sumit Kumar and Shilanand Lakra will make thier international debut.
 
 Squad: Goalkeepers: Suraj Karkera, Krishan B Pathak; Defenders: Amit Rohidas, Dipsan Tirkey, Varun Kumar, Surender Kumar, Nilam Sanjeep Xess, Mandeep Mor; Midfielders: S.K. Uthappa, Sardar Singh (Captain), Sumit, Nilakanta Sharma, Simranjeet Singh; Forwards: Gurjant Singh, Ramandeep Singh (Vice-captain), Talwinder Singh, Sumit Kumar (Junior), Shilanand Lakra.
 
