Pune: Not many athletes in modern sport, especially in individual ones like tennis, would dare to think of competing without a coach.

 But, then, not many are Guiles, er...  .
 
 The 33-year-old Simon decided to disband his coaching team — coach  , mental coach   and physical trainer   last year and he proved his point on Saturday. “This is something I always did. In ever hired a coach to help me with the strategy. Of course the previous one ( ) I had was like a mastermind in the game and knows a lot about tactics,” said Simon after recording his13th victory on the   by lifting the $560,000   title.
 
 Chants of “Seeeemon ... Simon,” reverberated through the packed MSLTA stadium in Mhalunge-Balewadi as the Frenchman bewitched the Pune crowd with his crafty game.
 
 “Strategy was always a strong part for me. Obviously everyone agrees it (my strength) is not my serve. So if it’s not the serve it has to be something else, and understanding what’s happening on court is one of my strengths, as long as I stay calm and cool and I can see this moment. I think I was able to do it all week and that’s why I was able to perform at that level,” said the native from Nice after taming the power game of South African Kevin Anderson in an hour and 37 minutes.
 
 But, talk to him, you will know the sorcery he has mastered does not come easy. It takes a lot of hard work and sweat to gain the control he has over his own game and the court.
 
 The highlight of the ATP 250 Series final came on set-point in the first set tie break when Simon won a more than 30-shot rally with a perfectly angled forehand which Anderson, the 31-year-old US Open finalist last year, didn’t bother to reach.
 
 “The last point of the tiebreak ... ah! My heart-rate was like 260 and the last ball he couldn’t move. It was a point when there was a lot of pressure. When you play these kind of points, where we are both really stressed and the heartrate goes high,” Simon said.
 
 It was the first time he was beating the world No. 14in their fourth meeting. While finding an answer to Anderson’s booming serve was the key to his win, bringing variety to his own serve was also crucial.
 
 “Yes, I changed a few things but you don’t have to know it,” Simon said mischievously. “Anyways, it is a slight adjustment to(countering) his serve. With his serve there is really no magic trick to return every time. So you try to jump as fast as you could on the ball.
 
 “And yes, also change a little bit on my serve ... I think I was changing and mixing the pace on the serve, it was pretty effective. I wish I could serve like him at 220 into every corner, but that’s not what I can do. So I try to find a way to start the point in the way I like, in a different way.”
 
 Simon benefited from playing top seed and world No. 6 Marin Cilic, another tall guy with a big serve as his weapon, in th esemifinals, Anderson failed to replicate his success against Benoit Paire, another Frenchman with a game filled with deft touches.
 
 
