Madurai: Vacating the stay over taking possession or demolishing houses for the Kanyakumari - Thiruvananthapuram national highway project, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court has dismissed a case against the project. 

 Dismissing the petition filed by 24 people including one B Nambirajan, the division bench of justices T S   and   said that the   (National Highways Authority of India) had denied the allegations that there is encroachment in the three villages alongside the NH-47. “But the area is congested and would not be sufficient for free flow of traffic from Kanyakumari to Thiruvananthapuram and therefore, a new alignment was proposed. Thus, it can be seen that the project is four-laning of existing NH-47, and as per technical exigencies, alignments have been altered, so that the road serves its purpose,” the bench said. 
 
 As far as compensation was concerned, the bench said Rs 2.21 crore has been disbursed and the amount lying in joint deposit is Rs 6.72 crore. “If the petitioners/land owners are interested in receiving the compensation, they need to approach the authorities. The court could not entertain an indirect challenge to the acquisition proceedings in the manner done by the petitioners,” the bench said. According to the petitioners, there has been a long-standing demand to convert NH47 between Kanyakumari and Thiruvananthapuram as a four-way track. As influential people in Kaliyakavilai, Marthandam and Thukkalay towns have allegedly extensively encroached on either side of the road, the NHAI did not proceed with it. Instead of removing encroachments, it found an alternative in realigning the NH47 along another road passing through the villages of the petitioners viz., Thiruvithangode, Athivizhai, Kunnathur, Sadayamangalam and Nattalam. They also stated that the officials attempted to forcibly take possession of their land and cut down trees standing there and demolished compound walls and wells. They also disputed with the compensation amount. 
 
 
