MADURAI: Almost all cities are as a rule congested during peak hours in the morning and evening. However,   is unique in that it is congested round-the- clock, even at midnight. Majormarkets and commercial hubs operating in the heart of the city keep it humming with traffic all through the day, leaving the city congested. Madurai is the market for the entire southern   and neighbouring Kerala. In fact, some of the markets are over a century old -- the central vegetable market was started 115 years ago -- and so were the other markets for fruits, flowers, onion and provisions like foodgrains. A century ago, they were started on a small scale with just a couple of shops which quickly grew in proportion.

 Markets apart, commercial establishments mushroomed in the city over the period, turning every street into a hub of some product or other. One would find serene residential buildings used as shops or for stocking the products. For instance, the famous house at West Masi Street, where Mahatma Gandhi changed his attire to that of a common Indian peasant during his visit in September 1921 is an outlet of a handloom store, and most of this house now lies in a dilapidated condition. 
 
 The popular demand is that the markets must go out of the city and be stationed on the outskirts. As the demand grew louder, there were efforts to move out major markets, and some really materialised. The central vegetable market, which used to operate near Meenakshi temple on the old prison premises for over 115 years, was moved to   during 2010-11. Ahead of the shift, the flower market which was operating close by was moved to Agricultural Marketing Committee campus in 2006.
 
 However, Madurai still reels under congestion because other major markets like fruit market at Yanaikal, fish market at Karimedu and the onion traders at East Marret Street are yet to be moved out of city. "The wholesale markets have to move out of the city. Most of the wholesale traders stock their goods inside the city. For instance, 80 trucks come inside the city to transact sugar alone", says Madurai Lorry Owners Association president C Sathiah.
 
 Some of the associations have moved their establishments anticipating this situation. The grains market at Sikkantharchavadi by was established by Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry in 2012. "Though most of the grain merchants moved their warehouses numbering 250 to the outskirts, the sales happen here because traders feel that they may lose business if they go out. When the entire market moves out, the business too will move out eventually. The issue here is, there is little pressure from authorities to move the markets outside the city", opined the chamber’s senior president, S Rethinavelu. 
 
 The proposals to move fruit market and fish market are in the pipeline with places identified at Mattuthavani and Virattipathu respectively. Most of the works have been completed for fruit market but the fish market ran into trouble. "Local people are opposing the proposal to move the fish market", quipped L Sundaram, president of Karimedu Commission Fish Vendors Association. Though the vendors who moved out of the city have no big complaints, they feel that staying inside city has got its own benefits. "The retail sale of customers buying flowers at dawn or dusk dwindled because they have to come a long distance. We used to enjoy this last leg of sales, when customers pick flowers on their way home", said A V E Kesavan, a flower merchant.
 
 There is also pressing demand from traders to create adequate facilities on these market premises which were moved out. "We still don’t have any cold storage to preserve vegetables and adequate room for maneuvering trucks. The original lot of 27 acres allotted by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa when she assumed charge first in 1991, is yet to be put to use", said P S  , president of Mattuthavani Wholesale Vegetable Traders Association.
 
 For the common commuters inside the city, it will be a great relief if markets are moved out. "It is very difficult to negotiate the traffic congestion in Madurai because we have to traverse through these markets and commercial hubs. ," B Rabikraja from Ismai lpuram added.
 
 
