GREATER NOIDA: The state government has ordered a fast-track probe against as many as 27 serving and former   officials for their role in an alleged land scam in 2008.

 The probe was ordered after Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh last month alleged in Vidhan Sabha that land use of 2,500 acres in Greater Noida (West) was changed from industrial to residential and then allotted to builders for group housing projects without approval from relevant authorities, including NCR Planning Board, when BSP was in power. Officials said that GNIDA has been asked to complete the investigation into the role of 27 officials of general manager and manager rank posted at GNIDA in 2008, and submit a report within a fortnight.
 
 “We have received directions from the state government in the matter and designated OSD Vibha Chehal as the investigating officer,” BK Tripathi, additional CEO, GNIDA, told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 “We have asked the officials to submit their clarifications in the matter. If required we will not shy away from taking strict action against them, including suspension and issuing chargesheets, if their role is found to be suspicious,” he said. “A report will be forwarded to the state government in the next 15 days,” the ACEO added.
 
 According to the MLA, in 2008 when Mayawati was the chief minister, 2,500 acres were reserved for industrial use in Greater Noida (west) area after land was acquired from the villages of Bisrakh, Patwari, Shahberi, Khairpur Gujar, Itehda, etc. However, the land use of that land was changed from industrial to residential without adopting the laid down land use norms and clearance from relevant authorities. This land was then allotted to builders. In retaliation, a PIL was filed in the Allahabad high court, following which the state government was directed in October 2011 to conduct an inquiry and take required action in the case. But no action was taken either by the BSP government nor the successive SP government in 2012. “The question of how land use was changed without following the laid down norms was raised by me,” the Jewar MLA said. “It is a serious matter and needs to be investigated and those involved need to be brought to book,” he added.
 
 
