Vikrant Massey, who began his acting career with TV show ' ', is happy that he has got noticed in Bollywood with movies like 'Lipstick Under My Burkha', 'Half Girlfriend' and 'A Death in the Gunj'. In a conversation with BT, actor tells us why he does not wish to do daily soaps right now and why he prefers to let his work talk for itself. Excerpts:

 
 
 Yes, but it’s nothing new. I didn’t know anyone in Bollywood when I graduated to films from TV. I remember how people used to look down on me saying, ‘Arre, yeh to Lokhandwala ka TV actor hai.’ That used to irritate me. Also, there’s no happiness in achieving something not on your merit. It’s not that TV actors can’t act, it’s just a matter of opportunity. Nepotism has been much talked about, but I can vouch for the fact that there are equal opportunities for everyone in Bollywood; otherwise, I would not have been here. There are some good writers in the industry and it is thanks to them that I got opportunities in films. Stellar actors like Pankaj Kapur, Irrfan Khan and   have also worked on TV, they are an inspiration for actors like me. I do agree that lead roles are difficult to come by, but the scenario is changing. 
 
 
 
 In the last leg of my TV career, I realised that somewhere, I was being dishonest with myself. The shoot schedules of daily soaps are so hectic that one has to deliver fast. Also, the kind of roles I could do were limited. No matter how hard I worked, my effort would go down the drain if the show did not garner ratings. We were vying for viewership and connectivity, and in the race for ratings, I did not want to associate myself with the jhumlebaazi (regressive stories) that were coming out. It was against my morals and ethics. Also, just like an actor can’t sit in an office and understand marketing or revenue strategies, I couldn’t understand how corporate people could mould the script for ratings. I was continuously bogged down by this conflict and it is during this time that I started getting films. I don't wish to do daily soaps right now, but I am going to be part of 'Teen Paheliyaan' a feature by  , which will air on TV soon.
 
 
 
 I agree, but the creative satisfaction that a film gives you is much more. After A Death In The Gunj released, I ask my director how much it had earned. And he replied, ‘People should like the film and that’s what matters’. I feel a film is like a book where the maker wants to tell the story. It should leave something indelible behind. I like to work with people who give importance to creativity and storytelling. Similarly, I enjoy when people come to me for my work and not because my manager asked him or her to speak to me. So, I don’t believe in having a PR manager. 
 
 
 
 Love is beautiful, so why hide it? I am in a very happy space with her. I believe in marriage and it will happen when the time is right. Having said that, this is something very private and I prefer to keep it that way.
 
 
 I don’t go to parties, because I don’t see any reason to attend them unless it is very important. There is no effort to remain aloof, but because I don’t mingle much, it might be perceived that I prefer to keep a low profile. Also, it cannot be denied that I am a little shy. 
 
  
 
  
 
 
