Nagpur: Continuing its series of protests against the bill banning triple talaq, All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) rallied together over 25,000 women at Nagpur. Dressed in the full hijab (veil), women carrying placards reading ‘We are safe in Sharia law’ blocked the road from Kasturchand Park till Zero Mile. The speakers, an all women panel, exhorted the audience to rise against any ‘conspiracy to impose uniform civil code’. Banning triple talaq was termed as the first step towards bringing in an uniform civil code. Threats were issued that the ruling party may have to bear the consequences of hurting Muslim sentiments. Banning triple talaq was dubbed as a means to curb women’s freedom. Concern was also expressed about ‘attempts to remove special status of J&K’. One speaker even warned that the government might even ban polygamy in future. A majority of the women who were part of the rally preferred not to speak or comment, while a few gave a terse answer that they cannot tolerate any interference in religious matters. Before Nagpur, a similar rally was held at Malegaon. Monisha Bushra, executive member of AIPMLB, said, “BJP government is bent upon implementing its agenda of building Ram Temple, doing away with special status of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), and introducing uniform civil code.” Once Article 370, which grants special status is removed, J&K would become like any other state of the country, she stressed. “Muslims ruled the country for a thousand years. That was the time when Islamic law governed the country. After the British came, the law was limited to governing our personal affairs, through the Sharia Application Act of 1937. Now, the government wants interfere in our personal laws in the name of bringing gender equality. It’s unwarranted as Islam ensures the highest degree of priority to women,” Bushra said. Coming down on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, she said, “His concern towards Muslim women is a farce. How can we forget the 2002 riots, when our women were raped and murdered. Had there been an arrangement like triple talaq for Modi, then even he may not have simply abandoned his wife. Rather she could have got a divorce to start life afresh,” she said. She claimed that only 2,000 odd Muslim women have been divorced as against 24 lakh Hindu women abandoned by their husbands. The speakers cited the Islamic law to stress how triple talaq benefited women rather than hampering their interests. There is a system of khula, which allows even the woman to terminate a marriage from her side, said the speakers. Bushra said once the uniform civil code is put in place, women will have to wait for years to get a court verdict for a divorce. Arjumand Bano of Ahle Sunnat Jamat, a prominent sect, said Muslim women are bound by no other law but the Sharia. “Divorce is not preferred in the Islamic law, but it’s allowed as a means to end a troubled marriage. Once a divorce takes place, it cannot be reversed. If a divorcee woman goes back to her husband, it’s adultery. There are some who want to legitimize such marriages through court,” she said referring to Ishrat Jahan, who filed the petition against triple talaq.