LUCKNOW: Springing yet another surprise,   chief   is learnt to have asked her cadres to work in close coordination with SP and   workers in   and   due later this month. The move comes in sharp departure from her previous announcement of not lending her support to any party in bypolls for the two seats.

 
 BSP national general secretary and a key zonal coordinator in west UP,  , confirmed to TOI that they were working with other opposition parties to ensure BJP’s defeat. “We all are working together,” he said. BSP’s covert support to the SP-backed RLD candidate in Kairana comes months after Mayawati announced her support to SP in Gorakhpur and Phulpur byelections. BSP sources said that though the party was not contesting bypoll but its cadre was not in the mood to stay away from combined opposition taking on BJP.
 
 “The RLD candidate, Tabassum Beg was BSP MP and is known to party workers in the area,” said a BSP leader.
 
 “The party cannot afford to keep its cadre inactive at this point of time. This is an opportunity to stoke anti-BJP sentiments. Dalits have been at the receiving end in clashes following the Supreme Court ruling diluting the SC/ST Act. It is time for them to take revenge,” said a BSP leader. Dalit and Muslims account for nearly 65% of the population in Kairana and can therefore prove to be game changer even as BJP gears up to vie for a larger pie of Jat votes. Sources said that Mayawati plans to convene a meeting of party leaders from west UP soon to discuss cadre mood and take a formal decision and is is taking regular feedback from workers.
 
 Mayawati initially avoided being seen siding with SP and annoy Jats who rallied behind BJP in 2014 general elections.
 
 Sources in SP said that the party wants to forge alliance with BSP for 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “BSP supported us in Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls. Mayawati later said that all like-minded parties will come together to defeat BJP in 2019. Our supporters know that SP and BSP are together in a sense,” said a SP leader .
 
 
