GURUGRAM: Two   working at a construction site in Pataudi’s   suffocated to death on Monday after being trapped under loose soil. 

 Sources said the rescue team could pull out the bodies of the deceased, Bhola (23) and Attar Singh (22), nearly three hours after they were trapped. 
 
 According to police and labour department officials, five workers were digging a channel to lay sewer lines. While Bhola and Attar were working on one side, the other three were digging the land on the other side. Suddenly, the dug-up soil piled near the site collapsed on Bhola and Attar at around 4pm, trapping them inside the ditch. Hearing their screams, the other labourers rushed to their help but before they could figure out what to do, the duo was buried alive. 
 
 A PCR call was made and cops reached the site within half an hour. As the area was crowded, it took cops some time to start the rescue process. “The duo, both residents of UP, was taken out using an earth-mover. They were declared dead on arrival at Civil Hospital,” said Surender Singh, SHO,   police station. An FIR was registered against contractor Anil Aggarwal and sub-contractor Babu Singh, under Section 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC. 
 
 “The accident site is under the railway over-bridge in Hailey Mandi. The workers were carrying out shuttering work when it happened,” said Ashok Nain, deputy director (industrial safety and health) labour department. 
 
 Pataudi sub-divisional magistrate Vivek Kalia said, “The work was being carried out by the public health department. We’ll probe to see if the accident could have been avoided, and take appropriate action.” 
 
 The labour department has announced a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh each for families of the deceased. Labour unions blamed the government’s lackadaisical attitude towards safety of workers for the loss of lives. “Today’s incident was not the first. The safety of workers is always overlooked. Even in this case, the workers had no safety gear,” said Dharamvir Singh, chief, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Pataudi). 
 
 
