PATIALA: Amidst strong opposition being put by the farmers’ unions across Punjab, the state government has decided to launch a pilot project to ascertain the viability of the direct benefit transfer for electricity ( ) for agricultural consumers by launching the project at six feeders in four districts of the state.

 The decision to provide direct financial benefits to the farmers had been taken by the state cabinet in January, this year, under which farmers are to be paid subsidy in cash, instead of free power, based on the norms fixed by the government.
 
 As per the government calculations, each 14 lakh farmers in the state are to be paid a sum Rs 48,000 annually against the power used at their tube-wells. The decision was also evaluated by the J-PAL South Asia and the  .
 
 Following the announcement of the project, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had claimed that the project would encourage farmers to save power and water and would also help in crop diversification and result in accurate energy accounting and curbing wasteful consumption.
 
 The government is initially launching the DBTE at six feeders in the districts of Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. Director Commercial of PSPCL OP Garg said under the project DBTE will be given to 900 agriculture connections.
 
 The government policy provides for the farmers to retain the balance savings on the power bills, but the farmers are adamantly against the launch of the project, which has also provided the opposition parties with some political ammunition to target the state government.
 
 The PSPCL is also facing a tough resistance from the farmers and its teams that went to installed meters at tubewell connections were attacked in some of the villages. 
 
 Jag Mohan Singh, general secretary of the   (Dakaunda) said the government has been unable to clear subsidy bills which were due to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and how it planned to pay the farmers was still uncertain. Therefore, the farmers were apprehensive that ultimately the farmers will have to pay from their own pockets and then wait for the DBTE to reach their accounts.
 
 President of BKU (Rajewal) Balbir Singh also called the move to be ‘anti-farmer’ claiming that the government was trying to find ways to impose bills on agricultural connections, which would not be allowed at any cost.
 
