GHAZIABAD: The stretch of road connecting   to   in Indirapuram will become a one-way after the elevated road is thrown open to traffic. As part of a traffic management plan devised for the elevated road, only those vehicles travelling along the stretch from   barrage towards   bridge on CISF-Vasundhara Road in Indirapuram will be allowed on the stretch.

 The decision has been taken in the light of the fact that the ramp of the elevated road, which allows vehicles travelling from Raj Nagar Extension to Indirapuram, will descend on this stretch near the Kanawani bridge.
 
 “There is bound to be a traffic jam at this point if vehicles from both directions merge at the foot of the ramp. Consequently, it was decided to stop movement of vehicles from the Kanawani bridge towards the Hindon barrage via the ramp of the elevated road. Vehicles bound for Hindon barrage and GT Road can travel through the alternative parallel road through Vasundhara at the other side of the barrage,” SP (traffic) Shyam Narayan Singh told TOI.
 
 The traffic management plan has been worked out after a series of consultations with the engineering department of  . A number of other measures have also been worked out to manage traffic on the elevated road in the management plan.
 
 “A speed breaker will be installed at the exit point of the elevated road in Raj Nagar Extension. Vehicles coming towards Raj Nagar Extension will invariably be in high speed while descending at the exit. The speed breaker will slow down vehicles as they hit the main road. Traffic constables will be placed on duty at all six entry and exit points of the road,” said Singh.
 
 The elevated road has been built at a total cost of Rs 1,442 crore approximately and is the longest bridge in the country supported on single-pillar piers. 
 
 The elevated road has missed deadlines several times in the past. Its construction had been delayed over shifting of high-tension electricity wires in the Vasundhara area last year. Clearance from the railways was also granted late for placing spans of the elevated road across the Delhi-Howrah line near Hindon Barrage. The project was granted clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority last month.
 
 “Construction on the project is totally complete. Now, we have scheduled March 30 as the tentative date for opening the elevated road,”   vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 
