DEHRADUN: Around 60 people, including the director of the pharmacy institute, were arrested on Tuesday on allegations of cheating during an exam being conducted in the  .
 
  Of the 60 arrested, 46 are students appearing for the exam and the others are teachers, invigilators, peons and the director of the institute. Sub divisional magistrate of Vikasnagar Subodh Kumar who headed the team that caught the students while cheating, said, “All the   who appeared for the exam were found to be cheating with help of the entire administration, including the director of the institute, Divya Juyal.”
  
  He added that the students were sitting with chits and books during the exams, proving that the entire administration was in collusion and a racket was being run there.
  
  Students were appearing for D Pharma exam, which was being conducted by   and the institute in Selaqui was one of the centres where 46 students had appeared.
  
  Officials involved in the raid said that the director of the institute was the mastermind of the racket and would take money from students appearing for the exam and help them cheat.
  
  SHO Naresh Rathore, who was also part of the team that conducted a raid in the college, said that they had been getting complaints of suspicious activities during exams at the institute and when they finally got there they saw cheating at a massive scale.
  
  Explaining the modus operandi, Rathore said, “They would make a man stand at about a km away from the institute to act as spotter. He would inform the college administration as soon as he saw any official going towards the institute. Officials at the institute would then clear any suspicious material in the examination hall.”
  
  The SDM said that the director and all the officials have been taken into custody and FIRs under 1981 act Prevention of Cheating in Examinations Act 1981 have been registered against all the accused.
  
  The SDM added that a report is being prepared to be sent to the concerned department, asking them to cancel the license of the institute.
