The Saqib Saleem and Taapsee Pannu-starrer ' ', which was slated to release on February 16 along with ' ' that features Sidharth Malhotra and Manoj Bajpayee, will now avoid the clash and hit the screens on March 9.

 Talking about the musical chairs that films have had to play, with regards to release dates since Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s   released on January 26,  , one of the producers of 'Aiyaary', told BT, “Aiyaary was all set to release on Republic Day. However, when the makers of 'Padmaavat' announced their release date as January 26, we respected the decision and changed our release date to February 9. Then, the makers of 'Padman' shifted their release date to February 9 to avoid the clash with 'Padmaavat'. Even though 'Aiyaary' was scheduled to release on February 9, there was a delay in getting a clearance from the CBFC. We got the certificate only on February 6 and that’s why we had to change our date of release to February 16. Neeraj Pandey (director of 'Aiyaary') and I requested   (producer of 'Dil Juunglee', which was also scheduled to release on February 16), to move the release date forward. It was a mutual decision.” Neeraj added, “In this industry it is crucial to help each other out and solidarity goes a long way. We appreciate that Vashuji has decided to move the release of 'Dil Juunglee'. All films need the right space in theatres to flourish and nobody understands and appreciates that more than filmmakers.”
 
 According to Vashu Bhagnani, it’s easier for individual producers to make changes in release dates of films, as opposed to bigger studios, which involve a large number of decision-makers. He said, “Nowadays, there are fewer individual producers. For us, it is easier to pick up the phone and speak to each other and come to a decision. Corporate studios don’t have the authority to make such decisions. When two films release on the same day, the damage is borne by both. A producer should be able to have a solo release, because the effort put into making a film is huge. Dates have to be announced beforehand because that’s how the business works, but if the dates can be adjusted, then it benefits everybody. Since I have cooperated with the producers of 'Aiyaary', it will benefit me in the future. 'Aiyaary' has already had to change the date twice, so it’s only fair that I change the date of my film to avoid the clash.”
 
 Jayantilal Gada added, “Considering there are only 52 weeks in a year and the minimum number of films releasing is close to 200, if it is possible to adjust dates for your other friends from the industry, you should do it. If I didn’t know the producer, it would have been difficult. As a businessman I look at this as a part of trade, but why should the creative people involved in the process of filmmaking fall prey to this date conundrum? I believe that even in the future, producers will help each other.”
 
 
