NEW DELHI: The   on Friday criticised alleged attempts by lawyers in   and   to prevent filing of chargesheet in the sensational rape-cum-murder of an eight-year-old girl and warned against threats to a woman advocate for representing the victim’s family.

 
 Taking suo motu cognisance of the unruly behaviour of lawyers in Kathua and Jammu, the court warned against any attempt to prevent the process of law or threats to a lawyer to dissuade her from appearing for a party in a court. It said such activities amounted to “obstruction of access to justice and interference with the administration of justice”. A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud told the agitating lawyers in Kathua and Jammu to behave themselves and “not obstruct the smooth functioning of the justice delivery system” or indulge in activities to prevent the prosecution from presenting the accused before the court or stall entry of prosecution or lawyers representing the victim’s family or witnesses.
 
 The bench issued notices to   (which is the apex regulatory body for lawyers), J&K Bar Council, HC Bar Association and Kathua District Bar Association and sought their response by April 19, next date of hearing.
 
 The incidents involving rowdy lawyers obstructing the process of law through strike to prevent police from filing chargesheet in the case was brought to the bench’s notice by a group of lawyers led by P V Dinesh at 10.40 am. The CJI said the SC would take it up but needed some facts to be placed before it in writing.
 
 Dinesh, an advocate on record also associated with a portal providing news and views related to the legal field, swiftly prepared a brief note and again mentioned the matter at 2 pm before the bench, highlighting how lawyers protested outside Kathua magistrate’s court and tried to prevent the police’s crime branch from filing a chargesheet against the accused.
 
 Advocate Shobha drew the court’s attention to media reports about the victim’s family and its woman advocate being threatened by the accused to dissuade her from participating in court. Shobha showed media reports claiming that bar association president B S Slathia had asked woman advocate don’t appear for family.
 
