MUMBAI: For 45 years, the Maharashtra government failed to complete the acquisition proceedings to take over 40 acres of land in Dindoshi (Malad). The   on Thursday directed the   to hand over the land, which has been in its possession since 1974, back to the owners, the F E Dinshaw Trust headed by  . 

 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Riyaz Chagla said the state had failed to acquire the land in time. The bench has given the BMC a year’s time to hand over the land to the trust. 
 
 There is however a sliver of hope, as the court said the state can “initiate proceedings for acquisition under the law of compulsory acquisition” within this one year. 
 
 According to real estate sources, land in the area could fetch between Rs 40-50 crore per acre. The trust had served a purchase notice under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act in 2011, and the state was required to acquire the land with a year. Since it failed to do so, the reservation on the land lapsed. 
 
 “The BMC has till date not come up with a new proposal for acquisition of the said land,” said the judges, while holding that the 2011 purchase notice was valid. 
 
 “It is an admitted fact that the state and BMC have failed to acquire the land within the prescribed period. It is well settled that mere exchange of correspondence, BMC and state proposing to take steps for acquisition of the land or its subsequent reservation in the draft Revised Development Plan 2034... cannot revive the lapsed reservation,” the judges said. 
 
 In the new DP, the land is reserved for a municipal school and rehabilitation and resettlement, which is a different public purpose than that for which the said land was to be acquired -- housing the dishoused, the bench pointed out. In 1973, the state had proposed to acquire around 587
 acres of land belonging to the trust in Dindoshi for expansion of Aarey Milk Colony. The BMC took possession of 556 acres of land in 1974. 
 
 A portion of the property was used by BMC for constructing roads and laying of iron pipelines. Subsequently, 515 acres was returned to the trust, but BMC retained 40 acres, without completing the acquisition proceedings. 
 
 The 2011 purchase notice failed to goad BMC and state to acquire the land. The trust approached the high court in 2014 for return of land. The state and BMC opposed the plea, claiming the plot had been voluntarily surrendered by the trust. 
 
 BMC said the acquisition proceedings could not be completed as the trust was unwilling to finalise an agreement. The civic corporation said the land had been reserved in the new DP, and even today it was willing to acquire it by making suitable compensation. The HC directed the state to publish a notification that the reservation on the land had lapsed. Once the land was handed over, the trust could develop it as permitted.
 
