Months of brainstorming, weeks of calculations, practice runs and sleepless nights added up to a resounding victory for the students of   College of Engineering, Vidyavihar. 

 The college contingent of 70 students, bagged the first position among 90 colleges and over 1,500 participants, at the national competition Formula Bharat 2018, which took place in Coimbatore, last week. The event is a student-level engineering design competition, where participants from various universities conceptualise, design, manufacture and test a Formula 1 prototype. These are then judged by various industry professionals.
 
 BT met the winning team, which comprises students from Mechanical, Electronics and Computer Science branches, ranging from second year to last year of engineering. Right from fundraising to designing the car, manufacturing and testing it, they worked on their dream racing machine under the guidance of Prof   and mentoring by Samir Somaiya. The team included five women members - Shreya Rajmane,  , Ketki Sanghai, Kopal Gangrade and   - who handle various departments right from driving the car, suspension, electronics to composites departments. 
 
 
 
 The team takes pride in the fact that they won in most segments of the competition.  , Final Year engineering student, lists out the many wins. “We participated and won at all events, including three static and four dynamic categories and bagged the first place overall, and also the first place for Endurance, Best Driver, Cleanest Pit and the Most Diligent Team. Apart from this, we also won the second place in Engineering Design, and Cost and Sustainability,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 With this win, Sanjana Dhulla became India’s first Formula Student racing female driver. The third year electronics engineering student says, “There are five drivers in all, but I am the only girl. My training started three months back. It is my mentor and team captain   Mehta, who encouraged me to take this up.”
 Parth, final year mechanical engineering, also bagged the fastest driver award. He says, “Our college team is called Orion Racing and I became part of it in my second year. I have won two competitions of the three I participated in since. However, this victory is the most memorable part of my stint.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Speaking about the challenges they faced in Coimbatore,  , the technical head of the team, says, “We had to get some welding done and time was a major constraint. However, we cleared it all on the same day.” The final year student of mechanical engineering, who is in charge of all the technical aspects of the car, including testing to running the car, adds, “There were many teams, but our design aspect was one of the best.” 
 
 
 
 The students say that when they work for a competition like this, there’s a lot at stake. “But when you love doing something, you just do it. After all, success is no accident. It requires work, perseverance, sacrifice, sleepless nights and most of all, you have to love what you do. It was a moment of true happiness and euphoria, when we were declared national champions at Formula Bharat 2018. It’s an event we will never forget,” says Jeet. 
 
 
 
 These students are not the ones to rest on their laurels. This win has egged them on to perform even better and the team has already begun developing their next combustion prototype (Bellatrix) to compete at Formula Student East. “Now, we are gearing up for the international competition, which will be held in   from July 18 to 22. We are trying to step up our game. We want to give the international students a tough fight and we hope to bag a few medals in Hungary,” signs off Parth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
