Ludhiana: 

 Local Bodies minister Navjot Sidhu has given the desired relief to MC officials by giving them permission to allot the work to a single bidder who had come for the modernization of the slaughterhouse. Officials received the permission on Tuesday, and now they are going to open the financial bid of the single bidder. Also, the Union food processing ministry had given clear instructions to MC officials to either complete the project by March 2019, or return the first instalment of grant issued to it with 12% interest.
 
 This project is important for the city to eradicate the problem of open slaughtering of birds and animals in every locality without caring for norms. Under this project, the existing slaughterhouse on Hambran Road has to be upgraded to a modern slaughterhouse. Confirming it, senior veterinary officer Dr YP Singh said they had received permission from the Local Bodies minister for allotting the work to the single contractor, and now they would be able to move ahead with the project work. He said they had explained to the minister that tenders were called thrice and pre-bid meetings were also conducted, but even then they received response from only single bidders. He said there was great relief for MC, because now they would start modernization of the slaughterhouse.
 
 Notably, the project was announced in 2008, but it kept delaying due to scarcity of funds. The total cost of the project is around Rs 19.50 crore, and out of this, Rs 8 crore has to be allocated by the Union government, while the rest will be arranged by the state government and MC. The Union government had paid Rs 79 lakh to MC around two-and- a-half-years ago.
 
 In September 2017, Local Bodies minister Navjot Sidhu — on behalf of CM Captain Amarinder Singh — made several important announcements for the industrial town, and Rs 20 crore were assured for this project. Followed by the announcement, officials started the tendering procedure, but in the first attempt, not even a single company came forward, while twice only a single bidder participated.
 
 Then, officials applied for permission from Sidhu to allot the project despite a single bidder, as they had floated the tenders thrice. Moreover, in the past week, even officials of Union food processing ministry advised MC officials to complete upgradation of the slaughterhouse by March 2019, because after that, the scheme would end. 
 
 
