NEW DELHI: Tennis legend   is not a fan of organisers not seeding   for the 2018 French Open. Three-time champion Serena will face Kristyna Pliskova of the Czech Republic in the   first round after the draw was made on Thursday with a potential clash against bitter rival Maria Sharapova in the last 16.

 
 
 Former World No. 1 Williams, now ranked a lowly 453, is playing a Grand Slam for the first time since she won her 23rd major at the 2017 Australian Open after which she stepped off the tour to give birth to her daughter in September. Williams has played just four matches on the tour in 2018 and not featured at all since Miami in March.
 
 
 
 "Looking at the women's side, the most amazing story is Serena Williams' return to the court barely a year after having her baby. This is testimony to her incredible fitness and talent, and she will definitely be a favourite among crowds. She should have returned with the seeding that she had before she withdrew from the circuit," Becker wrote for the Times of India on Saturday.
 
 "This was the most natural thing to do on the women's circuit - the officials certainly have not taken a great call here. Serena does have her work cut out for her in the form of top seed Simona Halep, defending champion Jelena Ostapenko, Garbine Muguruza and the ever-dangerous Maria Sharapova.
 
 Becker however, feels that the level of competition in the women's circuit of the French Open - with the likes Pliskova, Jelena Ostapenko, Simona Halep and Maria Sharapova also in the mix – is shaping up to be quite intense. 
 
 "The field is rather open with any of these women needing just one good fortnight to win the tournament. Ostapenko was unseeded last year and went on to win. Since then she has consolidated her position and has impressed me enough to know that she is not a one tournament wonder. I also hope Halep goes the distance here. She deserves to be a Grand Slam champion and this is her favourite surface. It's an open season for the women's side - predictions are hard to make," Becker added.
 
 Contrary to the women's circuit, where there is no particular favourite heading into the French Open that starts Sunday, there seems to be an odds on favourite in the men's division – King of clay, Rafael Nadal. Sixteen-time grand slam winner Nadal has been in imperious form coming into the French Open, winning on clay in Monte Carlo, Barcelona and Rome. In Madrid he celebrated the landmark of winning 50 consecutive sets on the red dirt before his only blip came in a quarter-final defeat by Austrian Dominic Thiem. 
 
 Nadal also returned to the top of the world rankings on Monday after winning his eighth Italian Open title at the weekend to confirm once more his status as the king of the clay court. With the unprecedented success the Spanish has tasted in the last couple of months, Becker believes it will be hard for anyone to think of anyone other than Nadal to lift the French Open title for the 11th time.
 
 "The start of the tennis summer for viewers worldwide is at Paris. This year's French Open has an overwhelming favourite in the men’s circuit and an even field in the women’s. There was some shadow of doubt over clay’s all-time great Rafael Nadal when he came to Paris last year to reclaim his territory. The fact that he had been deprived of the title in 2015 and 2016 made one doubt whether he would be able to make it an unbelievable, mind-boggling tenth win," Becker wrote.
 
 "This time, things are same and yet they are different. The similarity is that Nadal, recently recrowned world No. 1, comes in with a fabulous record on the clay circuit this year. Once again he only lost one match, to Dominic Thiem, and once again he only dropped two sets outside of that one loss. However, Nadal looks more formidable and really is an overwhelming favourite." 
 
