 is back on the small screen with a game show titled  
  While he has a new host, Neha Pendse, the former cast of  , including  ,  , and   has also joined him this time around. Here's a list of hits and misses of the show:

 
  The grand set of the show is hard to go unnoticed. There is an elaborate stage which is well-lit, ample space for the audience and the contestants to sit and move around, and of course, a king-size chair for Navjot Singh Sidhu. Kapil Sharma might have followed the same format in Comedy Nights With Kapil and The Kapil Sharma Show, which had a lot of stand-up comedy acts and celebrity guest interviews, but this one is a complete turnaround. It is a game show which has a different set of challenges for the competing families. It serves as a break from the usual that we see on the small screen. The star is the audience and the participants.
 
 
 
 
 
 The show also has a lot of fancy giveaways, the prizes offered are quite fetching and make you want to participate in it, too. This is an innovative way to gain more audience as it piques their interest. Neha Pendse adds glamour to the show. She is lovely as a co-host, and Kapil's flirtatious banter with her is fun to watch. 
 
  
  
 
  What comes as a huge disappointment is the repetitive characters and jokes on the show. Chandan is still dressed as Chandu 'Chai Wala' and Kiku Sharda is cross-dressed and seen as 'Bumper'. The tone and the humour have no novelty. Even Navjot Singh Sidhu uses the same punch lines and style to entertain the audience. 
 
 The gaming format fails to entertain or engage. After a few minutes of the episode, boredom seeps in. Nothing is streamlined on the show as there are people who randomly break into a song on stage, play the guitar, praise Kapil etc. This is done after every challenge as a break between different rounds. The celebrity guest, Ajay Devgn cracks a few dull jokes in the first episode and then almost abruptly goes off stage. 
  
 Kapil Sharma tries his best to hold the chaotic show together, but his attempt fails. He plays along with whatever happens on stage, but it isn't what we expect from the comedian. The scattered comedy, repetitive characters and the presence of too many people amidst props on stage make the show a dull watch.
 
