Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has geared up to implement the ban on use of plastic imposed by Maharashtra government from April 23.

 Following a detailed notification on Wednesday, the NMC has chalked out a plan of action for the implementation of the ban. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal convened a meeting with civic administration comprising assistant municipal commissioners and health department officials in this regard.
 
 He has directed all the assistant municipal commissioners of 10 zones and health department officials to crack down on manufacturers and wholesalers of banned plastic products. “Initially, we will target them and later shift our focus to vendors and end users,” said additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare.
 
 To a query, Kumbhare said NMC will also be monitoring other products like PET (polythene terephthalate) bottles and packaged products. “The packaged foodgrains should also have information about recycled products,” he said.
 
 Not only the NMC, other government agencies like district collectorate, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and tourism department have also been directed to implement the ban. Apart from NMC officials, the civic body will form a joint team comprising officials from MPCB and other government departments under the chairmanship of district collector Sachin Kurve to ensure proper implementation of the new rule, it was decided in the civic chief’s meeting.
 
 “NMC will decentralize the process of implementation as much as possible and focus on awareness,” said health officer (sanitation) Dr Pradip Dasarwar.
 
 Apart from zone’s different squad, there is a team of nuisance detection squad in place at the zone level. In December last year, NMC had launched a nuisance detection squad (NDS) to curb the use of plastic bags below 50 microns in the city. “Besides taking action, the NDS visited markets and persuaded vendors not to use plastic bags,” said Dr Dasarwar.
 
 Since December 11, when the NDS started taking action, the civic body has penalized 225 shopkeepers and vendors for keeping banned plastic bags. The squad also collected Rs1.43 lakh fine from them.
 
 According to Dr Dasarwar, NMC has already identified non-governmental organizations, citizens’ groups to conduct awareness drives. In addition, civic officials from the shops and establishments department will begin implementing the ban at the ward level.
 
 However, civic cops of NDS said that interference by political parties, especially the ruling party, is affecting the action. Even zonal officer (sanitation) D Rangari tried to prevent the civic cops from taking action against a few chicken shops in north Nagpur for keeping carry bags below 50 microns, they said. Dasarwar assured to take action against Rangari.
 
 
