CHENNAI: Within three days of an armed reserve   constable, Arunraj, killing himself while on duty at former chief minister J Jayalalitha’s memorial, sub-inspector R Sathish Kumar too committed suicide on police station campus. Experts say the men in uniform slog under extremely tough work conditions and their   levels are very high. The department has no   mechanism or mid-career unwinding programmes, they say, adding that absence of a union to bargain for better service conditions too is taking its toll. At least three incidents of suicide were reported in recent times.

 Police constable Bharathi attached to the Pallikaranai police station uploaded a video clip on Facebook which went viral on social media. He claimed that his senior officials refused to grant him leave even after he had explained his health condition to them. However, police officials clarified that Bharathi had exhausted all his leaves provided to him for the year in two months and was now demanding the officials to provide him with more leaves again. “This is an unformed force and we expect certain decorum to be followed by those attached to it. The constable Bharathi has taken 12 days casual leave, seven days additional leave this year. As he went on leave without informing his senior officials continuously for 21 days, we issued a show-cause notice to him. However, he had vacated the house he was renting two years ago and moved to a new housewithout informing us,” said a senior officer.
 
 All police personnel at the   must be given counselling to help them deal with the trauma, said Preethi Manohar, counsellor and general manager of Human Resources of Sooriyah Hospital in  . “Many people are taking their lives in frustration and they failed to arrive at a solution. This decision may have taken a fraction of a second to make, but the stress which had been accumulating for several years may have snowballed into the extreme anger,” she said.
 
 A retired police officer S Aravindan said, “Though it has been stigmatised, attending counselling sessions is not wrong.” In developed countries like the US, police are given one-to-one counselling at their convenience either at their office or home or elsewhere. “All police personnel who attended and witnessed Kumar’s suicide shall also undergo separate counselling sessions to help comfort them and so they can vent their speen over any issue they may have,” Manohar said. 
 
 
