CHANDIGARH: The parents from economically weaker section (EWS) apparently are not interested in applying to private schools in  . Out of the 105 vacant seats for   students, the education department has only received around 10 applications in the past three days. As per the notice issued by the Chandigarh education department, EWS parents can submit applications till March 24.

 Officials from the   said the reason behind it can be non-issuance of income certificates as around 2,000 certificates are yet to be issued. “Also it is possible that parents are not yet aware about the certificates,” said an official from   education Department.
 
 As per the officials, if the response being received does not improve by Saturday, the date for submitting of the applications may be extended.
 
 With 105 out of around 650 seats under the RTE Act remaining vacant in unaided private schools of Chandigarh, the UT education department had issued a notice inviting forms to fill the remaining seats on its own. Under the RTE Act, every private school is bound to reserve 25% seats for economically weaker students and children belonging to disadvantaged groups. The form for the same is available on the department’s website and is to be submitted at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, Chandigarh. The last date to apply is Saturday.
 
 There are 15 schools where the seats are vacant. The parents of the eligible children interested for admission in any of the schools can submit the registration form at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19, between 9am and 12noon.
 
 EWS parents seek admission by submitting a list of required documents. As proof of residence, the parents can submit ration card, voter I-card, electricity bill, water bill, gas connection, driving license. Attested copy of income certificate issued by sub-divisional magistrate will also be required. As a proof of age, birth certificate, hospital or auxiliary nurse and ( ) register record, anganwadi record or declaration of the age of the child by either parent or guardian can be submitted.
 
 
