AHMEDABAD: One-and-a-half years after brutalities on them shook the conscience of the nation, Una Dalit victims of the   family have decided to forsake Hinduism and embrace Buddhism on April 14, the birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar. 

 Vashram Sarvaiya, 28, one of the four Dalit youths from   village in Una who was publicly flogged, said that a dozen-odd members of their family have decided to renounce Hinduism because of unabated caste discrimination which does not allow them to live a dignified and respectable life.
 
 "The horror and shame inflicted upon us for doing our ancestral work of skinning dead cattle made us contemplate giving up Hinduism and finally a-year-and-a-half later, our family is convinced that we are better off embracing Buddhism which does not discriminate on the basis of caste.   too had embraced Buddhism saying he was born a Hindu but will not die as one. We want to put an end to this stigma," he said.
 
 Vashram, along with his brothers, were flogged half-naked publicly by self-styled gau rakshaks on July 11, 2016, in Una. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Babasaheb too had embraced Buddhism saying he was born a Hindu but will not die as one. We want to put an end to this stigma,” said Vashram.
 
 Vashram, 28, who currently ekes a living doing farming and rearing two cows, says the family will convert to Buddhism on Babsaheb’s birth anniversary to sent out a message against the caste system which prevails in the Hindu religion.
 
 Vashram, along with his brothers Ramesh, Bechar and Ashok, were flogged half-naked publicly by selfstyled gau rakshaks on July 11, 2016, in Una. Ramesh’s father Balu was also beaten by the gau-rakshaks when he tried to stop them. The visuals of the brutality had gone viral triggering widespread agitation against caste-based discrimination.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Underscoring persistent government’s apathy, Vashram said, “The then chief minister Anandiben Patel had promised us land and jobs but not a single promise has been fulfilled. While we have shunned skinning animals, there is no alternative means for the 12-member family.”
 
 Social justice and empowerment minister Ishwar Parmar told TOI, “I am not aware about Una victims’ decision to forsake Hinduism but I believe untouchability or discrimination is no more prevalent. I hail from south Gujarat and have not encountered a single incident of untouchability but I will travel across the state soon to personally find out if it exists or not. As far as compensation to the Una victims is concerned, I will raise the issue in the Cabinet meeting.”
 
 Kaushik Parmar, a Dalit rights activist, said, “Una victims, like many Dalits who are subjected to discrimination by caste Hindus, choose to embrace Buddhism influenced by Babasaheb Ambedkar. Untouchability is a reality in Hindu society which must be first accepted to resolve the same."
 
