MUMBAI: City businessman Pramod Goenka who was kidnapped from Mozambique in February is suspected to be held captive in neighbouring Swaziland by a Pakistani gang at the behest of a London-based businessman, sources say.

 
 Intelligence agencies in India and Mozambique suspect the kidnapping to be a fallout of a deal for a prime land in Mumbai. Besides the UK businessman who has realty interest in Mumbai, a chartered accountant and a close relative of a musician are under the scanner.
 
 
  
 
 Goenka, director in several realty firms, was reported missing hours after he landed in  , capital of the south-eastern African nation, to meet a Gujarati businessman on February 17. His last call, according to his associates, was on the same evening. The next day, a few family friends, including a politician, received WhatsApp messages of Pramod’s naked pictures from his mobile, hinting at his abduction, but there has been no demand for ransom.
 
 Goenka’s family told the police he had gone to meet one Kothari. 
 
 Now, it’s being probed whether Kothari was a real businessman or was fictitious front man of the gang. For, instead of Kothari, a person named   had come to pick Goenka at the Maputo airport. However, investigators have identified the man as one Masjid.
 
 An Indian intelligence team is in Mozambique to probe the case. Footages of CCTV cameras at the Maputo airport show Masjid receiving Goenka and both leaving in a   car. “Based on information provided by the Indian high commission, Mozambique and Swaziland police forces carried out raids at several places, including two farmhouses, and found the car,” an official said. Investigation revealed the car is linked to a Pakistani gangster, Mazhar Shah. 
 
 The Mumbai CA has identified the car as the same in which Goenka was picked up on his earlier trip to Mozambique. As the CA was supposed to fly with Goenka but dropped out at the last minute, he has been questioned by the city crime branch. Based on footages from CCTV cameras at Mumbai and Maputo airports, Call Detail Reports (CDR), raids in Mozambique and Swaziland and statements of various people connected with Goenka, investigators suspect that the kidnapping might have been done at the behest of the London businessman.
 
 Agencies are also probing if it has anything to do with Goenka’s property in Karla near Pune. He was under debt and had planned to pay off his creditors/banks by selling the huge piece of land. Pramod is the brother of DB Realty’s Vinod Goenka, but they have no business connections.
 
 Mumbai police officials refused to elaborate anything at this stage saying it could cause danger to Goenka. According to agencies, data gathered by a private risk management consultancy had revealed that at least 95 people have been kidnapped for ransom in the Mozambican capital and in Matola, Beira and Nampula, many of them targetting children of wealthy businessmen. In most cases the victims are released unharmed after money is paid, and in many instances, the crimes go unreported.
 
