Ghaziabad: The   (CRRI) will prepare a comprehensive mobility plan for the city for which a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the   director and GDA secretary on Saturday. As per the MoU, the CRRI will prepare a short and long-term plan to decongest city’s roads by suggesting changes in road design after taking into account the   volume at various intersections. The plan, which will be submitted to the GDA in nine months, will be effective for 20 years. The onus of implementing CRRI’s recommendations will be on the GDA.

 Ishtiaq Ahmed, GDA chief architect and town planner, said: “After intense discussion over the past few months, an MoU was signed with the CRRI on Saturday in the presence of CRRI director and Prof Satish Chandra and GDV vice-chairperson  . As per the MoU, the CRRI is expected to submit a comprehensive mobility plan for the city which includes Loni, Muradnagar and Modinagar within nine months.” GDA in turn will have to pay nearly Rs 1 crore to CRRI.
 
 The CRRI, which has prepared a similar comprehensive plan for Surat, Mumbai, Nagpur, Lucknow, Amravati, and Delhi in the past, had prepared a plan for   in 2008.
 
 “The previous plan was for 10 years and it was only for city area. This time, the plan will be for 20 years and it will cover Loni, Modinagar and Muradnagar too. Moreover, in the last five years, Ghaziabad has undergone a lot of change in terms of transport infrastructure as we have the Dilshad Garden-New Bus station metro line, Delhi-Meerut Expressway, Rapid Rail and Elevated Road coming up in the city. This makes the need for a fresh mobility plan necessary,” said Ahmed.
 
 “It is here where the role of CRRI comes into play as we propose changes in road designs, suggest FoBs and also employ traffic engineering in our reports,” said Prof Satish Chandra, director, CRRI.
 
 The CRRI will shortly conduct surveys in the city before preparing a final report. If CRRI’s recommendations are implemented, it will also ensure fewer accidents. Ghaziabad’s roads are most unsafe in the state and as per government’s report, the city is second only to Lucknow in terms of accidents. In 2017, 385 people were killed in 930 accidents across the city.
 
 
