Kolkata/Hyderabad: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao met   Banerjee on Monday to build efforts for a non-Congress, non-BJP platform ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

 Calling the proposed Third Front a ‘Federal Front’, Rao underlined the need for an alternative agenda that was “not just a coalition of political parties”. Banerjee welcomed Rao’s alternative initiative, but didn’t commit to the non-Congress path that he has been pursuing.
 
 Banerjee hailed the talks as a good beginning. “Politics is a continuous process and we have started a dialogue. Let us approach other parties also. We are in no hurry. Rao has expressed his views like Rahul Gandhi did on Sunday,” she said, leaving the door ajar for future developments.
 
 The Bengal CM didn’t mince words while responding to BJP’s assertion that the party can take on the opposition even if they come together. 
 
 “Nobody should feel proud of his strength. Others have their strengths, too,” she said.
 
 Telangana CM and TRS general secretary K Keshava Rao called on the Bengal CM at the state secretariat, while TDP’s Chandrababu Naidu had called her up on Sunday. Asked if she had spoken to Shiv Sena leaders, Mamata Banerjee said: “We are in touch with each other. But I didn’t talk to Uddhav Thackeray on the latest development.”
 
 Speaking to reporters, Rao said: “We are looking at a federal front of the people before 2019. It is not just a coalition of political parties. There is a need for an alternative agenda, a development path. In the 70 years of Indian democracy, except for six to seven years, either Congress or BJP ruled the country. There has been no qualitative change in the political system.”
 
 The reason behind KCR’s coming to Kolkata could be that TRS and Trinamool can form a major power bloc, given the present strength of TRS in Lok Sabha (17) and Trinamool’s (34) — bigger than DMK or Akhilesh Yadav’s SP.
 
 At the same time, Banerjee asked her party MPs to stay away from the TRS-AIADMK row in Lok Sabha on Monday that forced Speaker Sumitra Mahajan to adjourn the House that was scheduled to take up the no-confidence motion against the BJP government. 
 
 The Telangana CM, however, brushed aside a question on whether the Federal Front was willing to take Congress support. “A Federal Front will be a huge entity. Don’t assume what we are forming is something that has already been tried,” he said.
 
 
