Mysuru: With nearly 50% reduction in the use of   bicycles here, the district administration has revised the user fee with unlimited free rides upto 30 minutes from February 1 to encourage people to use the  . 

 Deputy commissioner D Randeep said the existing user fee of Rs 5 – except first free ride upto 60 minutes – for 1 hour was revised with unlimited free rides upto 30 minutes and Rs 5 from 30 minutes to 1 hour. 
 
 “When Trin Trin was launched on June 4, 2017, there were unlimited free rides upto 30 minutes as the launch offer, but later it was revised. But as there was a reduction in use of bicycles, it was decided to reintroduce free rides upto 30 minutes from February 1. We had more users in the first slab, so we have decided to go back to the old rates. A free ride for first hour is followed around the world,” he said. 
 
 Mysuru-based enterprise Green Wheel Ride project manager Mahesh HS said bicycle users have reduced from 1,200 to 650 in a few months. On an average, around 800-900 people use these bicycles. 
 
 Dockless environment 
 
 Currently there are 5,000 bicycles, 52 docking stations and 8,250 registered members in the first eight months. The district administration plans to introduce 13 more docking stations. The land for the stations has been identified by MCC and it’s ready to provide space. 
 
 Randeep said there is a plan to introduce dockless public bicycle sharing environment. “The bicycle will be locked and unlocked through a locking system which will be operated by a mobile app on GPS remote locking system. The users have to park vehicles inside the geo-fencing areas which will be marked in different locations instead of docking stations. This will reduce the infrastructure cost and also help track vehicle theft,” he said. 
 
 Mahesh HS said they also plan to introduce 50 dockless stations and introduce electric bicycles in   along with pedal bicycles. 
 
 Bicycle lanes 
 
 Randeep said hybrid bicycle lane and dedicated cycle path will be developed. “A dedicated cycle path will be developed in two places – KRS Road and JLB Road whereas regular cycle lanes will be developed on Old Bengaluru Road, New Bengaluru Road, Vishwamanava Double Road, Bogadi Road, Boulevard and JLB Road which will be called as Green Corridor Lane,” he said.
 
 
