NAGPUR: Disappointed with the “unfair” decision of the board and no political support, students of   expressed their frustration after they were forced to appear for the economics paper on Wednesday.

 Many complained about the exam dates clashing with the entrance tests of their preferred universities, and how it adversely affected their preparation for both.
 
 Despite being fairly acquainted with the course, gathering the courage to study the same syllabus again seemed to be a challenging task for them.
 
 “It is done and dusted now, but we cannot forget the injustice done. The paper was leaked in Delhi-NCR and Haryana region and we had absolutely no clue about it. Due to an offence committed by a handful of mischievous persons, we had to bear the consequences and suffer,” said student   after writing his exam.
 
 They expected the board to cancel the re-test, thus giving an equal treatment which they gave to Std X students after their mathematics paper was leaked. Many student groups from the city met Union minister Nitin   to seek support but came back disheartened.
 
 Akshat Handa, who was among the same lot of students, said, “Gadkari told us that there are more chances of re-exam to happen. We were shattered and lost all rays of hope. He also told us to fly to Delhi and protest there if we wanted reversal of the decision.” 
 
 Handa said, “This was not less than an unnecessary punishment for us, and the saddest part is that everyone will forget about it as it won’t matter to them. Indeed, people were talking about Std XII students when the paper leak was in the news, but nobody cares now. We had to fight a psychological battle to get our hands on the same books again. It was depressing and we could only sigh over our bad luck.”
 
 “Many students like me whose further admission depended on the entrance exams were in a state of panic. Failing to perform well or missing the exam would simply waste their year. This was definitely not an ideal solution which risked the careers of so many. The board has let us down,” he added.
 
 Akshat Gupta, another student, said, “I had a word with leader of the ruling party   right after the re-exam announcement was made. He hinted that the issue is revolving on a political level than just educational, and so, nothing can be done in favour of the students.”
 
 
