HUBBALLI: There is a   at  , the only   where the  ' can breathe   in the morning. Yet vehicles continue to enter the hilly area, prompting   to argue with the vehicle owners. 

  The Nrupatunga Betta Walkers' Association is asking people not to bring their vehicles on to the hilly area from 5.30 am to 8.30am. Association general secretary Siddu Mogalishettar told TOI that Nrupatunga Betta is the favourite place of walkers as they can breathe fresh air. "The association had requested the district administration and got the ban imposed a long time back. The entry of motor vehicles causes air pollution, questioning the very purpose of walking in the early morning. The ban is enforced for just three hours. The vehicles can enter in the remaining time. Elderly people also struggle to walk when vehicles move on the road. Hence, the association is ensuring that the ban is imposed by the district administration is adhered to strictly," he said. 
 
 "There was a heated argument between vehicle owners and walkers over the issue and police had to be called in. To prevent a repeat of such incidents, police must deploy a constable," said Surendra Patil, a student.
 
 Mogalishettar said police used to deploy a constable to stop vehicles but nobody is deployed now due to election work. "We cannot depend on the police for every requirement. Hence, the association has been asking vehicle owners to not to bring the vehicles in the restricted time. If people do bring their vehicles, they can park them at the entrance down the hill and walk to the hill. Sometimes, we have removed air from the tyres of vehicles that have entered the park," he said.
 
 Staff of the park said that people of all ages walk on the hill. "The staffer who opens the gate of the hilly area at 5 am every day also parks his vehicle below the hill and walks till the gate," they said.
 
 Ashok Nagar police inspector J C Hanchanal said that it was difficult deploy a constable every day. "The walkers have formed an association and the ban is actually imposed by the association itself. The security men of the hill should stop the vehicles," he added.
 
 
