With temperatures easily touching 47 degrees Celsius, swimming pools in housing societies remain crowded throughout the day. While some are there to just chill, others can be seen taking swimming lessons. And when it comes to kids, the city is witnessing a new trend – children as young as one are being introduced to swimming by their parents. Swimming coaches tell us that such queries have increased in the last few years and the concept of training   to swim is quickly gaining popularity in Noida. 

  
  Water Baby!
 
  
 
 Vijender Singh, a swimming coach who trains kids at different residential societies across Noida, Greater Noida and  , says, “I get a lot of queries for weekend classes for kids. I have trained kids as young as one-and-a-half years. To begin with, we teach them a few basic swimming techniques so that they can feel safe in the water, including breathing and floating techniques. The first step is to get them acquainted with water, followed by learning simple arm and leg movements to stay afloat. Toddlers love the bob-and-bubble technique and have the maximum fun doing it.” He adds, “I mostly take classes for toddlers over weekends so that their parents can also accompany them.”
 Jaiveer Singh, a Noida-based swimming coach, tells us, “I have already got queries from 15-20 parents who want to enroll their kids in the age group of two to four years for swimming classes. Training for kids of this age group is mostly about having fun with water. We play bobbing games with them and sometimes, we even use toys like diving sticks, rings and coins for going underwater. We also teach them leg and hand movements required to stay afloat.” 
 
  
  Fun Time!
 
  
 
  Sweta Singhal, a Sector 137 resident, who has enrolled her two-year-old son, Vivan, for swimming coaching, says, “I want my son to start early as kids are fast learners, so the earlier you start the better it is. I have already bought a pair of swimming costume, goggles, armbands, a silicone cap and a swim ring. Since summer vacations have begun, there are other kids of his age who are planning to join. Initially, I will enroll him for classes within our residential complex, so that my husband and I can monitor him, but once he grows and learns different strokes, we plan to send him to a swimming academy.”
 Ankita Tyagi, a resident of Sector 57, is planning to send her two-year-old daughter, Anya, to swimming classes. “Anya is completely a water baby and I am planning to send her to swimming classes. We have already ordered a bathrobe, a Mickey Mouse-printed swimsuit, a cap and a cute   princess plastic bag to carry her wet clothes.”
 
  
  
 
  
 One of the challenges of getting toddlers enrolled for swimming classes in Noida is that the demand is much higher than the supply – most coaches are hesitant to train kids below four or five. Vipin Gaur, manager of Ramagya Academy, Sector 50, tells us, “Although we get a lot of queries for swimming classes for kids as young as one or two, we say no to their parents. Kids that young have a very sensitive skin and are prone to ear, nose and eye infections. Chlorine and other chemicals are added to maintain a swimming pool, which might be harsh on the child’s skin, so we avoid taking enrollments of toddlers.”
 Vaibhav Sharma of Fitso SEALs, Sector 51, says that he doesn’t allow children under three or four years of age, but he does agree that the requests have increased manifold. “We do receive many requests for swimming lessons for toddlers, but we do not allow them. It is risky to train and one can't take a chance with water. We only allow kids above four at our pool. It is easier to train kids who are four and above as they understand the instructions of the coaches better as compared to toddlers,” he says.
 
  
  To begin with, trainers teach kids a few basic swimming techniques so that they can feel safe in the water
 
  
  Toddlers love the bob-and-bubble technique
 
 
