Colva: Goa’s most ubiquitous culinary staple is the humble plate of fish curry rice. The prospect of not being able to acquire fish makes many a niz goemkar jittery. But when monsoon strikes, that’s exactly that happens. As the seas get turbulent and bans get enforced, lunch plates across the state lose their piscine ingredient. But this prospect is too stark to behold, and thus, before the age of importing fish from other states, Goans dealt with the problem by simply devising means to preserve fish. Now, with a little help from the sun, salt and wind, the lean monsoon months wouldn’t be so intolerable.  In Benaulim, the practice still continues. As a child, Isabella Fernandes, 60, often helped her grandparents and parents to clean and dry fish. Half a century later, she still does, along with her children. And they’re not alone. At least 20 families from the village’s fishing community actively engage in this process.  Dried fish has a storage life of several years. In this method, the water is removed from the fish, which hinders the growth of micro organisms. The method is cheap and effective, and can be done by the fishermen and their families. This process of salting and drying commences in mid-October, with the onset of the winter. At Vaddi beach in Benaulim, each of the 20 families has a specific space marked by old, unused fishing nets. Early every morning, the families begin to clean the recently acquired fish.  Victoria Colaco explains the process. “First, we clean out the gut and stuff it with rock salt, which we also apply all over the fish. This fish is then stacked in bamboo baskets,” she said. This serves three purposes — excess water drains out, the salt is absorbed by the fish uniformly and the fish is matured and cured. The fish is then laid out in the enclosures in the hot sun and in the direct path of the wind. After about three weeks, the fish is dried completely. It is then stored till the onset for the monsoon, when, as fresh fish becomes scarce, the dried fish makes its way to the plates in Goa. 