BHOPAL:Six years after Madhya Pradesh became one of the first states in India to ban sale of tobacco-mixed gutka, overall consumption of the product has dropped by 5%, reveals second   (GATS).

 The state is among six that carry 70% of tobacco burden in the country. The consumption of tobacco and its products is highest in the state as per   (NTCP).
  
  
 Acknowledging reduction and need for improvement, MP health minister   released GATS-2 MP factsheet in the state capital on Wednesday. GATS is a global standard for systematically monitoring adult tobacco use and tracking key tobacco control indicators. The latest trend in tobacco consumption covered about 3,000 people in the state. The survey conducted in October 2016 was the second. First was conducted in 2009-10.
 
 “There is a room for improvement and it should be in coordination with other departments like department of school education,” said Singh.
 
 “The government should also increase penalty on those violating Cigarette and Other Tobacco Product Act (COPTA), he said. The health minister’s comment came after experts hinted at a new group of addicts – women and schoolchildren in MP. GATS indicates 17.3% women consume tobacco, the number has not declined, significantly. Elsewhere, the report cites addiction of schoolchildren to tobacco products. On an average, Rs 500 is spent on tobacco products per month by an addict in MP where prevalence of tobacco consumption is as high as 17%.
 
 National average for tobacco consumption is 13%. Half of all males in MP consume or smoke tobacco and whereas every fifth woman is an addict. “Despite gutka ban, sale of gutka-mixed tobacco is more in MP than anywhere in India,” said NTCP advisor Praveen Sinha.
 
 Cardiovascular diseases and associated ailments, too, have to be considered as a result of tobacco consumption, said   director Dr BN Chouhan.
 
 In eight years since 2009-10, only Rs one lkah was realisesd as penalty for violations of COPTA in government offices, he said. “There is a need for better integration between various departments. Adolescent health group and other habits needs counselling to prevent tobacco consumption,” he said. Dental unit at district level has been asked to assist in tobacco prevention. The order was issued by the health department on Wednesday.. Min Pitches
 
 No smokescreen: Tobacco-gutka sale ban reduces consumption Bhopal: In a novel initiative, district collectors in 19 of the 51 districts in the state, appointed a nodal officer of the rank SDM or higher to actively enforce Cigarette and Other Tobacco Product Act (COPTA) 2003, curb tobacco-mixed gutaka sale and other related violations.
 
 The health department also has a designated officer to penalise tobacco-related violations. On the sidelines of an event organised by the department of health, it was revealed there was a 5% drop in tobacco consumption in the state.
 
 From GATS 1 to GATS 2, there has been a decrease in prevalence of smoking by 6.7% and smokeless tobacco by 3.3%. The prevalence of any tobacco use has also dropped from 39.5% to 34.2% as per factsheet of MP released on Wednesday. It is a first for any state in India wherein district collector has a dedicated nodal officer to enforce — COPTA 2003, said   executive director Mukesh Sinha.
 
 He informed Indore district administration last week enforced fine to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh. On Tuesday, Rs 55,000 fine was collected for violation of the COPTA, he said. Speaking on the sidelines of the GATS-2 report release, oncologist Dr TP Sahoo said, “Addiction starts during school age and increasing number of women are taking to tobacco consumption.”
 
