BENGALURU: Tell us how you write your name in Hindi. That’s what the   (IIM), Bangalore has asked its postgraduate students as it plans to issue their graduation certificates in Hindi too.

 But the proposal has not gone down well with some students, who see it as an attempt to impose Hindi.
 
 “Who understands Hindi when we apply to foreign universities or for jobs abroad? Why impose Hindi?” the students argue as the issue has sparked off a debate on the campus. The institution had sent an email on January 29 asking the students to validate their names in Hindi and confirm it before Wednesday evening so that it’s printed on their transcript (scores report).
 
 “We were asked to understand the importance of this and confirm in the   Excel sheet before January 31,” a student said. The students were sent a reminder on Wednesday evening.
 
 Many students replied to the mail, opposing the move and saying they can’t read or write Hindi. “If the   has to be in bilingual format, it should be in my regional language that I can read and understand, and not in Hindi,” another student said.
 
 Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity, a student said it was nothing but imposition of Hindi and promotion of the language over other languages of India.
 
 
 
 
 We wonder if knowing Hindi will become a criterion in future to get into IIMs as faculty,” the student said.
 
 Another student said: “It does not make sense to have a   or degree certificate. It can be in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam too, depending on the student’s language. Hindi is not our national language. But here, a Hindi quiz is held and we’re also getting mails in Hindi.”
 
 When students sent several queries to the authorities and questioned the move, they were asked to note that the “transcript will be only in English. The graduation certificate will be bilingual, Hindi and English.” TOI has accessed a copy of the mail.
 
 IIM-B director   said, “Nothing has been finalized.” An IIM-B spokesperson said, “There have been discussions about this. No decision has been taken. No deadline has been given. The convocation will happen only in mid-March.”
 
 
