GURUGRAM: Three youths have been booked for allegedly assaulting and raping a woman after kidnapping her and keeping her hostage in Kanpur. They allegedly offered the complainant, who is originally from  , a lift to her in-laws’ place in  , Delhi. A zero FIR was filed in Delhi lat week and the case has been transferred to Pataudi police station.

 The accused have been identified as Inderjeet alias Sunny,   and Meer Singh, all residents of Khaira village, Najafgarh. The 29-year-old woman, who has two children, lives in Khaira with her parents-in-law. She had gone to her parents’ place for a visit in December last year. On December 26, Inderjeet, who was known to her, offered her a lift in his car to Khaira, which she accepted.
 
 Meer Singh and Hariom were also present in the car. instead of heading towards Khaira, the accused allegedly overpowered her and took her to Kanpur, where they held her hostage for a week and raped her. The woman told police she was made to consume a ‘poisonous substance’ as well. 
 
 “I was kept sedated and confined in a room where they assaulted and raped me. They dumped me on a road in Delhi a week later and fled. I approached cops but they didn’t help me,” she told police.
 
 The woman said she somehow managed to reach home and moved to a Delhi court earlier this year after cops didn’t co-operate with her. The court directed them to file a zero FIR last week. On the court’s order, a zero FIR was filed at Chhawla police station in Najafgarh. 
 
 Delhi Police sent the FIR to Gurgaon police as the crime took place in Pataudi. A fresh FIR was filed against the trio under sections 376 (rape), 365 (kidnap), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Pataudi police station on Wednesday. Inspector  , SHO of women’s police station, Manesar, is investigating the case.
 
 “We have registered a case, and the complainant’s statement will be recorded under Section 164 of CrPC in a city court. The accused will be arrested soon,” she said.
 
 
