NEW DELHI: One person has died and 22 others have been found positive for   in Delhi this year, as on February 18.

 Countrywide, there have been 117 deaths due to the viral illness in the past two months and 1,154 people have been affected, shows the latest data. Rajasthan, data shows, is the worst affected with maximum 86 deaths and 969 cases in the corresponding period.
 
 Swine flu, caused by  , was reported in the country in 2009 when it assumed epidemic proportions, killing as many as 981 people and infecting 27,236. In 2010, the deaths went up to 1,763 while the number of cases remained around 20,000. 
 
 In 2011 and 2012, 603 and 5,044 people, respectively, were diagnosed positive for the disease and total 480 deaths were reported. 
 
 Data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of   (NCDC) shows mortality caused due to swine flu remains high and it is actually going up, despite, better understanding of the disease, preparedness to deal with the arising complications and availability of medicines. 
 
 Preventive vaccines are also available for swine flu. 
 
 “Change in strain of the virus could be behind increasing incidence and death due to the illness. Till about two years ago, California strain was predominant, but last year, tests confirmed prevalence of Michigan strain of the virus,” said an expert. He added that timely diagnosis and treatment could help save many lives. 
 
 “I have seen five cases of swine flu in the last four days. One of the patients, who had history of diabetes and asthma, had to be admitted,” said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine, Apollo Hospital. He added that the virus can affect anyone but those with pre-existing co-morbidities are more susceptible to complications.
 
 Swine flu is a contagious disease caused by type A strains of the virus. The virus enters the body through inhalation of contaminated droplets or is transferred from a contaminated surface to the eyes, nose or mouth of a person. Its symptoms, doctors said, are similar to common viral illnesses, but the intensity is higher.
 
 In some cases, patients suffer from nausea or diarrhoea. Severe cases can progress to pneumonia and organ failure, doctors said. 
 
 A senior official in the health ministry said Rajasthan, Jaipur in particular, has witnessed many swine flu cases over the past two months. “We are in touch with the state health authorities and guiding them to prevent further spread of the disease. There is no dearth of medicines for treatment,” he said.
 
 
