CHANDIGARH: Twelve students grabbed the top three positions in the CBSE Class X exams, the results of which were declared on Tuesday.

 Four students took the first position with 98.8% score, five were second with 98.65%, and three held the third position with 98.4% marks.
 
 Out of the four toppers, three students were from Bhavan Vidyalaya School,  , and the other from Delhi Public School, Chandigarh. Three out of the four want to become engineers and get into IIT.
 
 Abhinna Agarwal of Delhi Public School was expecting around 95% marks and so was his teachers, but the result came as a pleasant surprise for everyone. “I still cannot believe I have topped with a score of 98.8%,” he said. Abhinna is taking coaching for nonmedical stream. His teachers were all praises for him. “We were expecting
 
 him to score good marks, but he has made us proud. He used to participate in Olympiads and chess competitions,” said his class teacher Shalini Sethia.
 
 Abhinna scored 100 marks in maths and said he wanted to become an aeronautical engineer. His father Vivek Bhusan is a vice-president in a private telecom company and his sister is pursuing civil engineering from IIT.
 
 Aniket Akshay Chaudhri, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, who also bagged the first position, suggested that one should stay focused and have clarity on concepts. He would be aiming to gain admission into IIT, Mumbai, as he wishes to pursue computer science. Aniket’s father Dr A R Chaudhri is a professor in geology department, Kurukshetra University, and mother Dr Meera Chaudhri is a homemaker.
 
 Garima Gupta, the third Tricity topper, said she is an introvert by nature but loves listening to songs, playing badminton, chess and athletics. Garmia, who plans to opt for nonmedical stream and later IIT, said being regular in studies and managing time accordingly was her success mantra. Garima’s father Ashish Garg is posted as a senior lecturer in Government Polytechnic College, Ambala, and mother Kusum Rani, works in the computer section at PGI in Chandigarh.
 
 Like others, Rahul Jassal was also not expecting to top in the Tricity. He dedicated his success to his parents and sister. He said he enjoys studying. “Remain cool, and instead of doing hard work, do smart work. Don’t memorise things, but understand the concepts,” said Rahul.
 
