SRINAGAR: At least five people, including an Army jawan and two teenagers, were killed and more than 100 others were injured during an anti-terror operation at   village in South Kashmir’s   district and subsequent civilian protests across the valley on Wednesday.

 
 While the jawan was killed by terrorists, four civilians — part of a stone-pelting mob — were killed in the crossfire, police sources said.
 
 Sources said the stone-pelting, which helped terrorists flee, was so intense that security forces had to retreat. Soon after security personnel lifted the cordon at the operation site, terrorists joined the mob that helped them escape.
 
 The terrorists were identified by cops as Muhammad Azad Pala, Bilal Ahmed and Suhail Ahmed Dar from Laskhar-e-Taiba. 
 
 Thousands of people participated in the funeral of the civilians killed in the crossfire. The three   terrorists, who had escaped, later resurfaced at the encounter site after security forces withdrew the cordon. 
 
 Videos showing three terrorists who had managed to escape an anti-terror operatoin being welcomed at the funerals of the civilians who died on Wednesday and chanting pro-azadi and anti-India slogans went viral on social media. 
 
 The anti-terror operation, which lasted for more than 12 hours, had begun around 11.30pm on Tuesday when security personnel received an intelligence input about the presence of terrorists at a house in Khudwani village. After a joint team of the Army, Special Operations Group and CRPF launched operations, the terrorists fired at them, resulting in a fierce gun-battle. Sepoy S Gunakar was killed in the exchange of fire. Two other security personnel were also injured. At least five houses and three shops were damaged.
 
 “The slain Armyman was identified as Sepoy S Gunakar Roy. He died of injuries at an Army hospital,” a police statement said, adding, “In the encounter and subsequent protests, four civilians — Sharjeel Sheikh (25), Bilal Ahmad Tantray (16), Faisal Illahi (14) and Aijaz Ahmad Palla (30) — were killed,” the statement added. 
 
 After the operation, clashes erupted in several parts of the Valley, including Baramulla, Anantnag and Srinagar. The injured were taken to Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) and Shri Maharaja Hari Singh Hospital (SMHS), in the Valley. Kashmir University students also fought a pitched battle with security personnel in protest against the civilian killings.
 
 SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan said the hospital received five injured, including Baramulla SHO Khalid Ahmad. “Ahmad suffered head injuries after being hit by stones. He has skull fracture, but he is stable. Another injured person is 25-year-old Adil Ahmad from Anantnag. His condition is serious,” Dr Jan said.
 
 A senior doctor said at least eight injured were admitted to SMHS hospital. “Among them, 50-year-old Abdul Salam Dar suffered a serious neck injury. His condition is critical and he is on ventilator,” he said.
 
 A doctor from District Hospital, Anantnag, said, “A total of 10 injured people were admitted to the hospital and one was brought dead. Among the 10 injured, eight with serious wounds were referred to Srinagar hospitals.”
 
 Authorities ordered closure of schools and colleges in Kulgam and suspended internet services across south Kashmir. According to reports, train services have also been hit.
 
 
