MUMBAI: Four of a five member family died after sustaining serious burns in a blaze at   building in Marol. The chartered accountant,  , who owned the flat, lost his wife, two children and father. 

 It was his son Moiz (10) who first noticed the blaze and informed Abbas. But as soon as Abbas ran out of the flat to seek help, the door banged shut. Moiz might have run back to his mother. By the time the fire brigade and cops broke into the flat, charred bodies of Abbas’ wife Tasneem and Moiz were found hugging each other in a bathroom of the flat. Father Daud Ali’s body was found in the hall and daughter Sakina’s on her bed in the children’s bedroom. 
 
 The fire is known to have spread rapidly to the fourthfloor flat right above Kapasis where the Kotharis reside. Their elder son, Hussain (26), was awake as he was studying for his exam scheduled in the morning. 
 
 
  
  
 
 He noticed the smoke and alerted others in the family. “We immediately started splashing water everywhere in the house and eventually lay flat on the ground to avoid inhaling the smoke. We were brought out of the flat when fire brigade officials arrived,” said Hussain. 
 
 One more resident, Zara Cutteriwala, was injured, but discharged from hospital shortly after admission. Police officials said prima facie it appears that the fire broke out in the AC installed in the children’s bedroom of the Kapasis’ flat. “The exact cause of the fire will be known once fire and the other departments submit their reports. The preliminary probe does not point to any foul play. 
 
 An accidental death report (ADR) has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy. Abbas told cops that he woke up after his son alerted him to the fire. “On seeing the fire, Abbas rushed out to get help from his neighbours but the door got locked from inside. Kapasi’s son may have gone to his parents’ bedroom again, by which time the smoke and fire might have spread inside the entire 2BHK flat,” said MIDC police senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar. The fire brigade, though, said, “The matter has
 
 been reported to the police for adetailed inquiry from the flat owner who was present at the time of the fire,” said a senior fire official. “We found Kapasi’s daughter charred to death. His elderly father must have died of suffocation while his wife and son were found in the bathroom hugging each other,” said Pasalwar. The Kapasi family moved into the flat 12 years ago. 
 
 Ivor Dsouza, who had lived next to the family in Mazgaon earlier for three decades, said the Andheri flat was renovated just six months ago. The autopsies were carried out at   in Juhu. One of the doctors said all four bodies were completely charred. “The family members sustained 95% to 100% burns,” said a source from Cooper. 
 
 The bodies were released around 2.30pm, following which they were taken to the Marol masjid. The burials were carried out late in the evening. Afamily friend said Abbas was in complete shock. “He was a loving father. His daughter studied in Class VIII and son in Class IV.” The children were students of Hasanat High School opposite the building itself. Abbas held back tears as he tried to complete the formalities being the only surviving member of the family. Hakim Kapasi, a relative, said they were a close-knit family. “His brother lives in the US and is on his way here,” he said. Surprisingly, except for the two flats, no other flat was affected by the blaze.
 
