Diganta.Guha@timesgroup.com

 It’s that time of the year when the cricket fans are hooked on to the Indian Premier League (IPL) extravaganza. Like it or hate it, but even an old-school cricketer who writes off the event as a “Bollywood potboiler” can’t ignore it. The three-hour, nail-biting excitement featuring Indian and overseas legends is for the wannabes a platform to earn a national call.
 
 The IPL is serious cricket, as harshest as the sport can get. The 11th edition of the tournament has already begun and the excitement is palpable. A look at this year’s King XI Punjab team proves that determination has no substitute. A team which is yet to win the coveted trophy despite experimenting with the combination and the support staff will go all out for victory this season. What’s a typical day of an IPL match like? What is the ambience in the stands and how much the tension in the dugout? What does a coach do to keep the players focused and settle their nerves? Here’s an analysis.
 
 News from dugout
 
 Kings XI Punjab appear to be a chilled out franchise in the good old Punjabi spirit. Ask former Bengal right-arm seamer Ranadeb Bose, who was part of it in the past and he would endorse it. “It is a chilled out team indeed,” Bose told TOI adding, “You can see the warmth. It’s not only about playing the game, but also about how you cheer up your boys.”
 
 On the match day, the team makes it to the ground about two hours earlier usually. For the 4pm contest, the players are in by 2.30pm. Now they must relax. An odd gym session in the hotel is a possibility but team meetings happen the previous day usually.
 
 The light warm-up session includes drills, running, and catching practice. A senior journalist who has covered all the IPL seasons says cricketers in the playing XI avoid intense net practice before the match. Bose agrees. During his days, training started much before the match, but the concept has now changed. The playing XI for this season’s opening match against Delhi Daredevils was announced just before the toss.
 
 Big boys won’t play at night
 
 About the dugout nerves, ask mentor Virender Sehwag, who pointed out that it was important to give the team a healthy atmosphere to make the players comfortable. “You have to give them space so that they can go out and perform,” Sehwag said. “Every player is equal, irrespective of his experience.” Asked if that was true, Bose recalled that when he was part of the team during the South African edition, coach Tom Moody had reprimanded a star player severely for sneaking out after curfew.
 
 It’s early days in the latest edition and with post-match parties banned, it is quite unlikely that the Kings XI players had a blast after beating Delhi Daredevils. But you won’t guess that by the upbeat mood in the team.
 
 The best part of this year’s Kings XI Punjab side is the balance of youth and experience. Match winners such as Chris Gayle, Yuvraj Singh, David Miller, and R Ashwin will combine with left-arm spinner Mayank Dagar and finisher Manzoor Dar and others like them who look forward to the experience.
 
 Dar told TOI in an earlier interview: “It is going to be a great learning opportunity. If I get a chance to play, my goal will be to lead my team to victory.”
 
 =Team khaki
 
 An IPL match in Mohali is like a festival in the town. The festive spirit goes hand in hand with stringent security. The Mohali police have orders to close the roads around the IS Bindra PCA Stadium on April 8, 15, and 19, the days matches are scheduled. The cops usually assemble a night before the match to review the arrangements for players’ security.
 
 Nodal officer SP Gursewak Singh Brar told TOI: “Nearly 1,200 cops were deployed on Sunday when Kings hosted DD. It’s true that normal commuters did face problems as the roads were blocked, but we can’t take chances with players’ security. I can assure you that we don’t harass anybody but only do our job.”
 
 The match-day security to the PCA Stadium costs about Rs 8 lakh. Commuters did face a lot of problems on Sunday and even journalists covering the match had to take a detour to catch a taxi.
 
 Fan experience
 
 On the day of the match, fans queue up two hours earlier at the stadium gates. On Sunday, there were fans waiting since 1.30pm. They had come all the way from Patiala and Ludhiana, common for an IPL match at the PCA Stadium. This year, fans will come even from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) to watch their hero, Manzoor Dar in action. A group of 25 fans arrived from the valley on Sunday.
 
 Though, Dar missed out on a playing XI berth, there will be more fans from Kashmir for the coming two home matches. On Sunday, the fans also missed Gayle storm. The big West Indian was also out of the side. But he will feature in the coming two matches, hopefully.
 
 Most of the fans are disappointed because there are only three home matches this season in Mohali because of the closed airport. But they will make the most of it. After all, it’s the IPL.
 
 Box:
 
 Home Ground
 
 The I S Bindra PCA Stadium | Hosted its first IPL match on April 19, 2008 (Kings XI lost to Chennai Super Kings by 33 runs)
 
 Capacity | 27,000
 
 Cops deployed | 1,200
 
 Security bill | Rs 8 lakh per day
 
 Box:IPL moment
 
 Slapgate incident | In 2008, Mumbai XI player Harbhajan Singh slapped S Sreesanth after
 
 the match
 
 BOX: Match Schedule
 
 April 8 | KXIP vs DD, 4pm
 
 April 15 | KXIP vs CSK, 8pm
 
 April 19 | KXIP vs SRH, 8pm
 
 
