Till the age of 30,   was petrified of dogs. And then, for the sake of her daughter Kavi, a die-hard dog lover, they got their first pet, a pug named Kiddo. “Kiddo just opened up a whole new side of me. The kind of unconditional love a dog could give, no one else can. And then I realised what people who are not dog lovers are missing out on! I had missed so much in 30 years!”
 
 A few years ago, Kiddo had breathed his last, and Ambika decided not to have any more pets. “There is just too much heartache at their loss, I felt. But then, one day, I found this litter of stray pups under a transformer near my apartment in Delhi. I had always noticed that pups which are born there get hit by cars. I decided to take in two of them. That’s how Bu and Bro came into my life, and it all seemed to open up again,” she says. “The world of pets is something else altogether. You become more patient and you love more.”
 
 Ambika soon moved to a farmhouse so that Bu and Bro could run around and play freely. Today, no one believes her when she says the two of them are stray dogs. “I guess their father is a pedigree for they don’t look like stray dogs. But they have the inherent traits of both their parents. Bu keeps running away, if the gate is even slightly open and we have to spend two to three hours looking for him. I don’t know if he is trying to tell me that he wants to roam the streets like his mother! The last time he ran out, he got bitten by a street dog, and we ended up with vet visits. But Bro won’t ever step out. He is more like his father in that respect.”
 
  
  
 Nevertheless, Bu is a free spirit and ‘’like a butterfly’’ she says. “He is like a fairy dog; he runs all around the place and just enjoys life. Both of them love me to death, and I love them to death. The moment they see me packing, they start sulking and the reception I get when I return is heavenly.”
 
 And the two of them keep each other company when she is away, she says. “If anyone asks me whether they should get one dog or two, I would say two works beautifully in the long run because they will play with each other. But bringing them up when they are small is a real headache. It’s like having twins and I nearly went mad. Now they’re two years old and easier to handle. They’re fabulous guard dogs and also jealous of each other. They keep fighting for my attention. People say don’t let dogs lie on your bed but I do, especially during winters when they cuddle up under the blanket.”
  
  
 Ambika recalls that they had dogs at home during her childhood but they were ‘’pure guard dogs’’. “They were always in cages and let out only at night. We never mingled with them. Getting to know and love them is another story altogether. I will never put my dogs in cages or tie them up. Even when people come to stay, I tell them beforehand about my dogs. Recently my niece from Paris had come to stay with some friends. ‘If anyone doesn’t like dogs, I’ll un-invite them’, she told me. My dogs are not going to be tied up around guests, because you are coming into their space!” she laughs.
 
