AGARTALA: Leader of the opposition  , speaking in the assembly on Monday, urged chief minister   to make   stop its "atrocities" on   leaders and workers. 

 "Hundreds of our party offices were ransacked, burnt down, destroyed by BJP supporters. Many party workers were assaulted, family members attacked. Many of them are still in hospitals. Hundreds of CPM workers had to leave home because of constant intimidation," Sarkar said. Referring to governor  's speech in the first session of the 12th Tripura assembly last week, which Sarkar appreciated, he added, "The governor's visionary speech stands nullified."
 
 Sarkar alleged that local BJP workers resorted to extortion after the announcement of election results. "This is not confined to CPM supporters, however. Even some businessmen and professionals have been asked to pay up for BJP's victory celebration," he added.
 
 Recently, eight people - including former CPM legislator Rajendra Reang - were injured in an attack on the CPM office at Laljhuri in North Tripura, allegedly perpetrated by BJP supporters. CPM has alleged a series of such attacks since the election results were declared, bringing BJP to power in a state that had been under Left rule for 25 years.
 
 "My appeal to the government is to prevent such elements with an iron hand. Otherwise, the people who have voted you to power will be disillusioned. The development agenda that you set will not be implemented properly. The chief minister must take steps to restore normalcy and cohesive relations among people, irrespective of political affiliation," Sarkar said. He added, "It is good for Tripura that the party ruling both at the Centre and in the state has promised to help the state government in its development goal. We are ready to extend all support and cooperation to the government."
 
 Lashing out at CPM's allegations of post-poll violence, parliamentary affairs minister Ratan Lal Nath said that had it not been for the repeated appeals for peace by the chief minister and other senior BJP leaders, there would have been a bloodbath in the state because of the "politics of murder" the state has seen over the past 25 years.
 
 
