PANAJI: The move to install a   of Jack   in the assembly complex has seen a divide among the   MLAs with deputy speaker and its Calangute MLA Michael Lobo joining ally Goa Forward Party’s chorus despite BJP making its stand clear against installation of any statues on the House premises.

 Lobo, who claims he has “nothing against the party”, has given a notice to move a private member resolution in favour of installation of the statue, which has the backing of Goa Forward.
 
 Lobo said he has given a notice as it is his prerogative as an MLA to raise public issues in the assembly. “I am a BJP member. I am a loyal soldier of the party. I joined the party in 2006. (But) I have a right to function as an MLA in the assembly,” he told TOI.
 
 He said NCP’s lone MLA   has given a notice for moving a private member resolution, while he was hopeful Congress would also move one. “I am confident that the private member’s resolution will be passed in the assembly,” he said.
 
 Lobo also said chief minister Manohar   spoke to him. 
 
 “The CM said he will look in the right direction,” he said, adding Goa’s history did not end with Liberation but with Opinion Poll and statehood.
 
 He also questioned his party’s stand not to install any statute in the assembly complex. “Was it not Sequeira who was responsible for keeping Goa for Goans?” he asked.
 
 But BJP state president and Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar said Lobo was present at the party’s meeting where it was decided unanimously not to install any statues. “Lobo is not against the party decision, but he can always express his independent view,” Tendulkar said.
 
 BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha is also in favour of installation of statue and sources said at least a couple of more MLAs may have similar views but have not expressed them in public.
 
 BJP, which has 14 MLAs in the 40-member House, is supported by three members each of Goa Forward and Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party and Independents. MGP has clearly expressed its opposition to installing any statue in the assembly complex.
 
 
