Mayur Shetty & Partha Sinha | TNN

 Mumbai:   is among the only majority Indian-owned private   in top five. The RBI’s diktat to bring down promoter shareholding to 20% by December 31, 2018, and 15% by March 31, 2020, could result in the lender losing its Indian-owned tag. Promoter holdings in Kotak Bank as on September 30, 2017, is 30.07%. This is worrying   who believes that if what you create does not outlast you, then you have failed. In an interview to TOI, Kotak, executive VC & MD, Kotak Mahindra Bank, speaks of the need to give Indian savers the benefit of growth in markets here.
 
  is witnessing some M&A activity and  . How is your appetite for acquisition?
 
 I think consolidation is going to be a necessity in the future. We are not obsessed with whether it’s a bank, an   or an   firm. As long as it makes business sense and enables us to consolidate and create value, we will look at it.
 
 Given that public sector banks are undergoing stress, how do you see the landscape evolving in the financial space?
 
 I see three mega trends. I see private banks increasing their share from 30% to 50% in the next five years as they are getting a disproportionate share of growth. The second trend is the formalisation of savings. People who put money into land and jewellery are now putting money in financial assets. Third, if we look at Indian private banks, four of the top five are majority foreign-owned. It is strange that for a country of India’s size, Kotak seems to be the only majority Indian-owned private sector bank of scale. Major Chinese companies are still majority-owned by Chinese savers. I think the time has come for Indian savers to benefit from the creation of wealth out of Indian opportunities.
 
 Would you not lose the ‘Indian-owned’ label once you comply with   guidelines on capital dilution?
 
 Obviously that is something that does engage our board. We want to remain Indian but finally we are also in the policy framework of the country, which is effectively saying Indian private banks need to be majority foreign-owned. I am not a protectionist. But I have no question in mind that in most of the majority-owned so-called Indian companies, it is the foreign proxy advisers who decide the future of these companies. So these Indian-controlled and majority foreign-owned companies, is actually a myth.
 
 Do you feel equity markets are overvalued?
 
 I am not saying that the market is overvalued. I am speaking about complacency with respect to risk. In less than a year, the 10-year bond yield is up by more than 100 basis points (1 percentage point = 100 basis points). We have a strengthening rupee which is putting pressure on Indian exports. We have oil prices which have risen close to $70 a barrel. In terms of investing in companies, greater diligence is required.
 
 There is debate on whether to increase long-term capital gains...
 
 Maybe the time has come to increase the period from one year to two years and make long-term capital gains over two years exempt. For taxation of long-term capital, dividend distribution tax rules should change. Total taxation on a company’s income comes to 57% if you take the 10% additional tax on amounts above Rs 10 lakh.
 
 How do you see the problem of stressed corporate borrowers and banks being addressed?
 
 The government has done the right thing by providing them capital. But the recapitalisation and the tax-break that banks will get on the write-off will barely fill the hole and will not be enough for growth.
 
 Do you feel there has been too much regulatory interference on banking decisions?
 
 One of the most dangerous terms is ‘public interest’. We nationalised banks in public interest because private banks were giving money to big business and not to other sectors. Now 47 years later, we need to ask the question: Has public interest been served when the bulk of losses of nationalised banks are in lending to big business? Where does the accountability for that lie? Who sits in judgment on whether public interest has been served or not?
 
 Do you see an opportunity in stressed assets?
 
 We continue to be interested in stressed assets and want to put money from our own balance sheet. We see a huge pool of Rs 12-14 lakh crore of stressed assets with a haircut value of Rs 6 lakh crore hitting the market in the next 12-18 months. Our view is that recoverability will be 40%.
 
 Immediately after the election in 2014 you were extremely optimistic about the economy. Has some of that waned?
 
 I believe that the economy will grow 6.5%. Over the last three years we had a very good macro and a challenging micro. This has reversed. The issues have been GST execution which has been more challenging than envisaged.   has formalised savings and all businesses in the formal sector have gained at the cost of the informal sector—so it has been a net positive.
 
 Do you think the recent crisis in the SC portends bad for the economy?
 
 Outside elected institutions, there are a few crucial institutions in India which are temples of our future. These are the SC, EC, RBI and  . Leaders of these institutions have significant responsibilities for preserving these temples of our democracy. Therefore, these institutions need to have significant commitment to accountability and transparency.
 
  In many ways, these institutions are like Caesar’s wife — above suspicion. It is a very deep question of first principles of democracy and the constitution.
 
 What is the public accountability of leadership of key institutions not elected through a process, and how will that accountability be brought to count?
 
 What are your views on cryptocurrency?
 
 I do not invest in what I do not understand. The only comparison I can make to cryptocurrency is gold — but gold is something that is so much into the psyche and DNA of people worldwide. Other than that, there is no example of a currency created by a nation or group of nations.
 
 
