GANDHINAGAR: No big river has been included in the much hyped river rejuvenation programme announced by chief minister  . Moreover, critical issues such as clearing encroachments from riverbeds, controlling pollution, or taking action against illegal mining in and around riverbeds have not figured in the agenda. The state government’s focus in the rejuvenation programme is only on 35 minor rivers and tributaries in 33 districts.

 
 The state government has said that it aims to take up the river rejuvenation programme next year. It has started collecting data on the rivers that face immediate danger. The state government says that it may take up the river rejuvenation plan as a longterm mission from the next season; as of now, it is a month-long drive. In all, Rs 78 crore has been allocated for the programme.
 
 Mona Khandhar, commissioner and secretary of the rural development department — who is anchoring the river rejuvenation programme — said: “As it is the first-ofits-kind project in the country, there are several shortcomings such as the non-availability of data and status reports.” She went on to say: “We have taken up patches of various rivers covering around 405km area. We aim to address issues such as drying up of rivers, streams, and water bodies; the depletion of groundwater; the shortage of drinking water; siltation of riverbeds and erosion of riverbanks; and increasing concentration of fluorides and other pollutants in the river.”   said the government has not included the removal of encroachments and curbing of pollution in the current drive.
 
 Khandhar said: “Through the month-long programme, we aim to increase the rate of groundwater recharge with artificial techniques and the harnessing of the natural stream network in the upstream. We want to revive water bodies in the downstream as well.” She said that recharging aquifers and ground water, maintaining the flow of surface water in targeted rivers for sustained periods, and the staving off of soil erosion will be the priorities. “During the implementation of this programme, 1,449 water harvesting structures will be created, minimum water storage capacity of 44,09,950 cmt will be set up and ground water recharge of approximately 13,22,983 cmt will be generated,” she said.
 
