The   town panchayat, which spent an appalling amount on water supply maintenance, does not have documents to substantiate their expenses. The CAG audit report said that ‘though the panchayat claimed to have attended to leakages and spent lakhs of rupees on it, there was no specification when and where the leakage was attended; what spare parts were used and who registered the complaints. The panchayat did not have any complaint register or any information on the works carried out. Moreover, even the older parts that were replaced were not produced during the audit.’

 The bills that are in the possession of TOI were checked with the same company  , at Ram Nagar in Coimbatore, for the rates (photocopy shown above). The prices had been exaggerated extensively. For example, the cost of a 25mm gate valve was just `375 but it was bought at `553 in 2015. The 32-mm ball valve that was priced at `890 in the bills is sold at `510. When former panchayat officials were questioned about it, they declined to comment.
 
 This has raised suspicions that the panchayat officials faked and exaggerated the bills. In several bills, the TDS has not been added. Also, all companies that were involved in the purchase were not registered with the district administration, as per the report.
 
 RTI activist Daniel Jesudas said the panchayat bought the spares from a Coimbatore-based company named Bharat and Co. "There are several shops in and around the panchayat. But they purchased from a company that was not registered with the collectorate. Also, they did not get permission for these purchases from the collector," he said.
 
 Daniel alleged it was one person who singlehandedly received and continued to get all the contracts for works in the Othakalmandapam panchayat. "In almost every work, his company won the tender and got the contract," alleged Daniel. He said some bills were from the companies and were original. But some bills are hand-written and did not deduct taxes as well. The bills for different works had the same amount written on them, which raised more suspicion.
 
 Indhumathi, former executive officer, said the audit was wrong. "We did not spend so much," she said. 
 
 
