CHENNAI: The state transport corporations, including Metropolitan Transport Corporation ( ), were found creating stages a specific distance based on which the fare is calculated illegally to increase their revenue.

 Fares in government buses are calculated based on the number of stages a passenger travels. The state government has specified 2km, 4km and 25km as the minimum distance between two stages in town, mofussil and express (long-route) services. 
  
 
 However, government records sourced through   revealed that the corporations had illegally set up stages.
 
 Recently, five moffusil buses operated by   ( ), Coimbatore, to Pazhani and Pollachi were penalised by enforcement authorities for creating stages illegally and not operating as per the road permits issued by their respective regional transport offices (RTOs).
 
 These buses were found collecting Rs 87 and Rs 64 from every passenger instead of Rs 64 and Rs 54.
 
 “Back of the envelope calculations show that a single government bus by violating permit conditions earn around Rs 3.15 crore a year. The amount of money illegally collected by TNSTC is beyond imagination. However, they are let off with minimal fines,” said K  , a consumer rights’ activist from Coimbatore who sourced the info through a series of RTI petitions.
 
 As far as MTC is concerned, ‘jumping’ stages are created by local depot managers which eventually force the passengers to pay two to four rupees in addition to what the government has fixed. 
 
 In response, MTC officials claimed that they are allowed to create stages on a temporary basis and refused to comment when enquired about the legalities.
 
 Besides this, transport corporations were found changing the types of bus services without RTO or regional transport authorities’ (RTA) approval. 
 
 Despite obtaining only a limited number of permits for express services, most ordinary buses in Coimbatore were converted into express services unanimously without applying for change in permit conditions. Thus the corporation is fleecing the passengers, said Kathirmathiyon in his complaint to the state transport department. 
 
 “We are looking into the issue and an explanation has been sought from authorities concerned,” a senior transport department official told TOI.
 
 In a separate incident, TNSTC, Villupuram, received a complaint on Wednesday that tickets are printed with same serial numbers. 
 
 Unions alleged that authorities with the help of few conductors were trying to siphon off funds collected through sale of tickets. 
 
 “There was a printing mistake and there was no foul play involved,” said an official from the depot.
 
 
