NEW DELHI: It was a night of horror for the   of Gupta Colony in   as a strong wind blew the flames from a burning rubber warehouse towards their homes. Delhi Police and fire service personnel evacuated almost 40 houses at J Block, leaving many residents to bide their time in a park and others in the houses of accommodating neighbours.

 Rufina Lawrence recalled feeling the walls of her house becoming hot around 7pm on Tuesday. “The police and civil defence officials arrived soon after and asked us to leave our home. The power supply was cut off,” Lawrence said. “I helped my elderly mother down the stairs and went to my brother’s house nearby. It was horrific since we expected chemical explosions.”
 
 Reena Devi, Lawrence’s neighbour in J Block, said that the gaps between the buildings acted as blowers and fanned the flames. “The fire officials warned us that the blaze was likely to spread to our colony,” she said. “I stayed put in the park with my children till 1am when we were given the green signal to return home. We were apprehensive about using our gas stove because we feared the heat might cause a cylinder burst.”
 
 According to local residents, rubber material was stocked not only in the   that caught fire, but also in the adjacent building. They alleged that the warehouse was built in such a way along the Sant Nirankari School as to hide it from public view. “There are over a thousand students in the school during the day. Fortunately the fire broke out after school hours,” said A K Malik, member of the school management committee.
 
 Police said a gym run by relatives of the warehouse owner next to the razed facility was also affected by the inferno.
 
 Some residents, including one who gave his name as Sunny, claimed that the storehouse owners often requested them, the last time a few weeks ago, to keep windows opening on to the godown shut to avoid dangerous chemicals wafting into the house. “We had approached our MLA and councillor about the threat posed by the godown, but no one listened to us,” claimed Dharmender Singh, treasurer of Gupta Colony RWA. “This was a disaster waiting to happen.”
 
 
