MUMBAI: Domestic medical technology company, Trivitron Healthcare is joining hands with private equity firm, Investment Funds for Health in Africa (IFHA) to float a joint venture focused on African continent. The PE firm supported by key investors like International   Corporation, manages two funds with $200 million invested in healthcare, along with Trivitron, will form a 50:50 venture,   (THA). 

 The company will provide medical devices, turn-key solutions, engineering support and after- sales service to improve access and affordability of devices --right from MRI scanners, implants to lab products, across 54 countries in Africa, over a period of three years.
 
 To start with, both companies will invest $10 million together in the equal JV,   told TOI, adding, at a later stage his company plans to have a majority stake. 
 
 The agreement is slated to be signed this week. This will be his third overseas venture, after investments in Turkey and Finland. The company has nine US FDA/CE approved manufacturing facilities spread across India, Finland and Turkey.
 
 In its first phase of operations, Trivitron Healthcare Africa will be based in Dubai, with a direct presence and sales and service infrastructure in four major hubs: Nairobi, Johannesburg, Lagos and  . The company will leverage these hubs to support neighbouring countries and manage an extensive channel partner network across the African continent.
 
 THA’s initial offering will include a complete range of products and after-sales services support in laboratory medicine, medical imaging, critical care, operating room and renal care. The company will also distribute and support products from other multinational corporations.
 
 In addition, THA will have a projects’ division to execute turnkey hospital projects, and is working with a healthcare group in   to support the design of its new flagship hospital in Nairobi (Kenya). The company plans to float a multi-vendor biomedical engineering services division to ensure support for healthcare providers across Africa, and focus on academic initiatives. 
 
 
 
 
