CHENNAI: When   Shankar Madurai was 21, he scoured the stands for LGBTQIA+ books in Tamil. But nothing was available except for a few autobiographies and memoirs of a few transwomen. Years later, the intersex activist's book, 'Maraikappata Pakkangal (Hidden Pages) Sex, Gender and Sexual Orientation', is to be released at the Chennai Book Fair on Saturday.

 Gopi, founder of Srishti, an LGBTQIA+ (Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Queer Intersex Asexual) non-funded student collective, began working on the book in 2011, and took two years to complete it. Unable to find a publisher, he self-published it but not many copies were sold. 
 
 The first 12 chapters give explanations for various sex, genders and sexual orientations. The next 12 deal with the cultural and religious history of gay, and lesbian people. "It ends with an interview of  , and a glossary for various new Tamil terminologies used in the book," says Gopi, who coined the terms, along with Srishti director  , who has studied linguistics and etymology.
 
 For instance, Aganal mean lesbian, Aganan (Gay),   (Bisexual), Thirunar (transgender people; there are different terms for transmen and transwomen), Palputhumaiyar (genderqueer), Mulunar (Pangender),   (Agender).
 
 "People who belong to the community are deciding how others should address us or refer to our gender; we don't give that space to academics," says Gopi, adding that there are more than 58 gender identities under the genderqueer umbrella. "For the last few years, a few Tamil writers, social activists and media have been using these regional terms coined by us."
 
 Probably the first book on gender variants in Tamil, it attempts to define the difference among sex, gender, sexual orientation and romantic orientation. "Generally, the terms gender, sexuality, and sex are taken to be the same but they are mean different things. Sex is a biological definition and gender is the self-identity and also means the sociocultural and behavioural perception, while sexuality refers to the sexual attraction towards a particular sex."
 
 Gopi says social and political institutions still suffer from the narrow colonial mindset of the Victorian era. 
 
 "But traditionally, our legends and mythologies are full of people who chose various genders without guilt, and the fluid nature of gender was also emphasized," says Gopi. 
 
 
