Sickies are no longer a problem for employers, they are now facing difficulties due to a rise in ‘presenteeism’ or people coming into work when they are ill, according to a new study.

 A report by the   (CIPD) found that 86% of the 1,000 organisations surveyed in the United Kingdom, representing over 4 million workers, had noticed employees coming into work when they were ill. The rise compares with a survey in 2010 when just 26% of employers observed the behaviour. In 2016 the figure was 72%.
 
 The survey also found that ‘leaveism’, such as people using annual leave to work, is a growing problem. More than two-thirds of respondents (69%) reported that leaveism has occurred in their organisation over the last year.
 
 Experts suggest that millions of pounds are lost owing to absenteeism, and presenteeism — when employees are at work but not operating at optimum levels.
 
 “The presence of ill people at work can be more costly to the business than their absence, not only if illness is transmitted to other colleagues, but also because ill employees are likely to work less effectively than usual, may be more susceptible to costly mistakes, take longer to recover from their illness and cause lower workplace morale,” the CIPD warned in its report.
 
 This tallies with findings by   last year that the average   was going to work while ill for almost two weeks a year, costing companies more than £4,000 per worker due to lower productivity.
 
 The scale of the problem is “shocking” according to Rachel Suff, senior employment relations adviser at the CIPD who said “people feel under even more pressure to work”. She said employers need to do more to tackle the issue. “Too few organisations are discouraging unhealthy workplace practices and tackling stress, which is strongly linked to health conditions such as anxiety and depression,” Suff said.
 
 However, the   shows that despite the disturbing figures, only a minority of organisations are taking steps to challenge these unhealthy workplace practices. Just a quarter of respondents that have experienced presenteeism (25%) say their organisation has taken steps to discourage it over the last year, a figure that has almost halved since 2016 (48%). Similarly, only 27% of those who have experienced leaveism say their organisation is taking action to tackle it.
 
 
