BENGALURU: The   on Tuesday announced that the   had set in over Kerala. “The southwest monsoon has set in over Kerala, three days ahead of its normal date,” said a press release from the department.

 
 Experts, however, say the rain lashing coastal Karnataka cannot be considered monsoon showers as the southwest monsoon is yet to enter the state. “What Mangaluru and other coastal areas are witnessing is still considered pre-monsoon showers. The monsoon is expected to enter the state only by Wednesday night or Thursday,” said a senior scientist from the University of Agricultural Sciences Bangalore.
 
 The   said conditions are favorable for further advance of the southwest monsoon into some parts of central  , remaining parts of Kerala, some parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka, some more parts of east central and northeast Bay of Bengal, and some parts of northeastern states during the next 48 hours, the release added.
 
 The Karnataka government is expected to officially declare the arrival of the monsoon in a day or two. “Normally, the southwest monsoon hits Kerala on June 1 and advances into Karnataka after a few days. But this time, it has come early because of a deep depression over the Arabian Sea,” said G S Srinivasa Reddy, director,  .
 
 Though the state is already convinced that the monsoon has arrived, Reddy said they have decided to wait and watch till Wednesday, before officially declaring its arrival.
 
 GOOD NEWS FOR FARMERS
 
 The early arrival of the monsoon is always an encouraging sign for farming activity as the economy of the state is mainly agrarian. The monsoon is also critical to agriculture as it accounts for more than 70% of annual rain and recharges reservoirs that help irrigate crops. “Timely rain will boost acreage and in turn, increase agricultural production besides underground water, which has depleted to record levels in recent times due to consecutive years of drought. Any deficit in rainfall during the early part of the season could delay sowing and hurt food production,’’ said S Raghavendra, a senior agriculture officer.
 
 Farmers wil be doubly lucky as they have already benefited from copious premonsoon rainfall in May. “Major parts of the state received more than 50% of the average rainfall in May,” said K Anjenya, a Met officer.
 
 Former agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda, however, sounded a note of caution. “A few days of rain will not make much difference. Most important is the quantum and distribution of rain across all regions.”
 
 
 
