CHANDIGARH: Two persons including a juvenile have been arrested for kidnapping, thrashing and sexually harassing a minor girl at   in Sector 31 on March 10. However, one of the accused in the case is still absconding. The juvenile was produced before the juvenile board and sent to a juvenile home. Other accused would be produced in court on Sunday.

 Ranjit Singh, the station house officer (SHO), said they arrested a juvenile and   alias Golu, a resident of Ramdarbar, in the case so far. He added that the family of the 13-year-old girl complained that  , who is at large now, took her on his Activa scooter to the garden. His juvenile brother and   joined him there. All of them tried to outrage her modesty at the garden and also thrashed her. However, she freed herself from the clutches of the accused and returned home. She narrated the entire incident to her family. Initially, her family members did not want to report the matter to police, but later, they filed a written complaint against all the three persons at Sector 31 police station.
 
 Based on their complaint, police registered a case under the sections of 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 354A (making sexually-coloured remark), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal code (IPC) and also sections of POCSO Act against the three accused. Acting on their complaint, police arrested two accused out of the three. The third accused managed to flee from his residence. Raids are on at Ravi’s possible hideouts to nab him as soon as possible, police said.
 
 On March 12, Sarangpur police arrested three persons Gurpreet Singh, Randhir Singh and Amit for sexually harassing and stalking a 26-year-old woman at   . All the three accused has been lodged in jail, since their arrest.
 
 On March 4, Arun  , 25, was arrested for barging into the house of a woman in Kishangarh village and sexually assaulting her. He was produced in local court and was sent to judicial custody.
 
 
