KOLKATA: Indian Institute of Management Calcutta’s decision to stick to awarding diplomas instead of switching to degrees at its convocation scheduled on Saturday has evoked a mixed reaction from the students of the institute. With the IIMs in Bengaluru, Indore, Udaipur and Vizag awarding degrees to its students this year, a similar switch had been expected at   as well. While some students felt that a switch to degrees will offer no additional benefit to graduates, others pointed out that it might help those aiming for higher education or jobs abroad.

 Claiming that degrees often give an edge to those seeking placements in other countries, some outgoing candidates felt that the institute could have given students an option to choose between the two. “At IIM-Bangalore, we were told that the institute had given students the option to make an informed choice between a degree and a diploma. Just four opted for a PGDM, while the rest preferred an MBA degree,” said a second-year student. He added that given a choice, it would have been a similar scenario in IIM-C.
 
 Praveen Nagalla, who will join a consulting firm, felt that IIMBangalore has to establish the equivalence of the PGDM with the MBA degree that has been given to the students at its convocation on March 17. “This is the first time when an IIM awarded a degree. If they fail to establish the legal validity of the same then there may be legal trouble, which might have to be resolved later,” Nagalla said.
 
 He added that for employers in India, both PGDM and MBA were equivalent. “No employer differentiates between students based on degree and diploma, especially if the candidate comes from an IIM. The B-school brand is well known in India. Trouble is that foreign employers based in certain countries prefer students with degrees while sanctioning visas and permanent residency. It is here that some students may continue to face problems,” Nagalla pointed out.
 
 He added that given a choice, students in IIM-C would have preferred an MBA since it is considered to be a higher degree in comparison with PGDM.
 
 Another student, who has aspirations to pursue an MBA later on, pointed out that after pursuing a post-graduate diploma course in management, students often travel abroad for an MBA. “In such a case, the PGDM is beneficial as the candidate has good knowledge of the course. Degrees help in securing job transfers and promotions. Had I got an MBA degree this year, I could have postponed my plan to study abroad,” he said.
 
 Another graduating student,  , said, “In the Indian context, a diploma from an IIM is considered equivalent to an MBA degree. It is well established. It should not be of any major concern to students. The problem will arise for students who have bagged employment abroad.”
 
 Asenior IIM-C faculty member, however, said that the legal tenability of awarding a degree needs to be verified. “Most IIMs have tried to tread the path with caution. Unless a unanimous decision emerges, we can’t start awarding MBA degrees,” he said.
 
 
