The episode of   starts with   asking   about the women in his life. She teases him by saying that she thinks the women he likes is in love with someone else. Raman refuses to listen and says there’s nothing like that. Shanoo tells Raman that he should confess about his feelings to the woman, Raman gets angry and leaves the room.

  is in her room and is seen crying, Shanoo enters and asks her if she needs a head massage, but Simmi refuses. Shanoo tells her that she is a superwoman and her hero. She also praises Simmi and says how well the latter has been taking care of all the responsibilities alone. Simmi feels better and thanks Shanno. She then asks about the reason of being upset. Just when Simmi is about to confide, Raman enters the room.
 
 He asks Simmi that why did she lie about   being in Delhi as he saw   alone. Simmi informs Raman that she knows Ashok and Ishita’s travel agent and they decide to find out the truth. Ishita hopes that the truth doesn’t get revealed.
 
 Raman sees Ishita talking to someone on phone and he gets jealous. Ishita and Ashok talk about the Lohri party and she advises him to not call Raman for the same.   then tells Ishita to return home before Simmi and Raman. When Simmi comes back she notices   working in the kitchen. She asks about Shanoo and Mrs Bhalla replies saying she is outside. Shanoo puts a garland on Ananya’s photo and tells today is her birthday. Shanoo praises her smile and Simmi gets emotional.
 
 Meanwhile when Ishita is trying to remove her make-up, she gets a call from Ashok’s servant who informs her that his health is not good. Ishita runs to meet Ashok. Raman follows her saying that Shanoo is their responsibility. He sees Shanoo entering Ashok’s hosue. He gets confused and says that now he will have to find out the connection between Shanoo, Ishita and Ashok.
 
 Simmi and Raman question Shanoo about what is she doing at Ashok’s house as she has no relative in Delhi. Shanoo cooks up a story and says that she has come to see her ailing brother. Raman then starts looking for Ishita in the house. But Simmi bring Raman back home. Ishita quickly calls the doctor to get Ashok treated. Ashok says sorry to Ishita for troubling her. But Ishita tells him that she has managed to control the situation and has lied to Raman and Simmi about his brother.
 
 Ishita gives medicines to Ashok and asks him to take rest. Ishita and Raman start missing each other.
 
