Madurai: With the Swachh Survekshan survey to judge cities for their progress in becoming open defecation free (ODF) to be undertaken soon, all efforts are being taken to make Madurai ODF. However authorities have not been able to ensure that the people do not defecate on the dry Vaigai river bed even after continued inspections. 

 Vaigai’s river bed is a popular location where people come to ease themselves during early mornings. But when there is no water in the river, it is a common to see a few walking on the river bed with cans or small buckets. 
 
 “It is sometimes the first thing one sees, if you arrive by Pandiyan Express from Chennai to Madurai, when the train enters the city,” said T Sugumar, software professional. This impacts the tourism in a negative way, he added.
 
 Raja, who lives along the river, in the colony there, says that paid toilets operated by some SHG members near his house is opened late and closed early.
 
  “We do not have toilets in our homes and we have to use the river bed. Otherwise the   should ensure the 24-hour functioning of the toilet,” he said. Some of the corporation toilets are either locked or in bad condition, so we use the river bed, say the women in the colony.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation authorities have been cracking down on open defecation at the river bed to discourage people. Authorities led by Corporation Commissioner Aneesh Sekhar inspected the stretch from Kurvikkaran Salai to Arapalayam and warned people who pollute the river bed.
 
 R Abubucker of Neernilaigal Paathukapu Iyakkam says that there are many unusable toilets, leading people to use tank beds or river bed for defecation. “Two such toilets are in Bibikulam in Narimedu and Meenambalpuram in Sellur,” he said.
 
 An unused public toilet in Kuruvikkaran Salai, which was brought into use recently, was inspected by the commissioner. The people of Alwarpuram urged the commissioner to construct a toilet in their area and he ordered the same. He also urged the people to use other public toilets in their region or those in their homes. 
 
 He directed the concerned officials to renovate the damaged or unused toilets along the river bed at the earliest.
 
 The commissioner has also warned against overcharging the public at use and pay toilets. Public have also been told that they can use the toilets at petrol bunks in the city.
 
 
