NAGPUR: Just like a new sheriff in town, the traditional board exam format of   X has put an end to the 99% club party in Nagpur. This year, the highest scores were reigned in at 98.6%, as compared to almost half a dozen students scoring over 99% two years ago under the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation ( ) pattern exam. From schools controlling 70% of the marks till last year, to just 30% now, the impact is visible not just in Nagpur but across the country.

 This year, only 27,476 students scored above 95%, a sharp fall from the approximately 2 lakh students who managed to do so last year. In fact, right from 2015, the number of people scoring high was on a steady rise. The gradesheets of such students mentioned a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 10, which roughly translates into a score between 95%-100%. In 2016, the number of students scoring 10 CGPA was 1.65 lakh, up drastically from 94,474 in 2015.
 
  have now given a reality check to schools across the country, especially those manipulating or inflating grades to improve their performances. A senior academician and CBSE school principal said, “CCE was a wonderful idea but it was not implemented properly. Unfortunately, there were schools that misused the responsibility given to them, which ultimately led to the downfall of CCE.”
 
 Another principal agreed and added, “This shows that our schools are not mature enough.” The irony, however, is that even though at the national level the number of high scorers has come down, the scores themselves have skyrocketed. This year, four students are tied for the first spot with a score of 99.8%, and many other clamouring for a spot in the 99% club.
 
 In Nagpur region, the results landscape saw extremely tough competition with nine students fighting for top three spots. Centre Point School Dhaba branch’s Aashna Chopra shared the top spot with Narayana Vidyalayam’s Mihika Dhok courtesy a strong score of 98.6%. Prerna Agarwal (St. Xaiver’s MIDC) and Shrutee Upganlawar (SVM Chandrapur) held on to the second spot with a score of 98.4%. The third spot saw a strong fight between four claimants. CPS Katol Road’s Arunav Bhowmick and Dishita Sibal, BVM Ashti’s Yash Kale and Royal Gondwana Public School’s Sejal Vairagade all scored 98.2% to tie for the third spot.
 
 Government run Kendriya Vidyalayas too put up a stellar performance across the country with just over 95,000 students appearing for the exam. The pass percentage for KVs overall was 95.96% whereas entire CBSE board stood at 86.70%.
 
 
