CHENNAI: Only 93   in a city that sprawls over 426sqkm are  , according to Greater Chennai Corporation sources, who told TOI that the civic body’s zonal officials have been instructed to pull down the rest.

 The decision to act tough against illegal hoardings was taken at a recent review meeting in  .
 
  
  
 
 “The instruction to our officers was to target hoardings, which do not display the licence permit number and the licence expiry date,” said R  , deputy commissioner (revenue and finance), Greater Chennai Corporation.
 
 Unfortunately for the corporation’s administrators, words have not literally translated into action.
 
 Sources told TOI that only three cases have been registered against owners of illegal hoardings in the last six months. “These complaints were registered in   and Anna Nagar zones,” a source said.
 
 Last year, the Madras high court came down heavily on the city corporation for allowing illegal hoardings to fester. The HC first bench instructed the civic body to penalise offenders under the provisions of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919.
 
 “But (corporation) officials show little interest in pursuing these cases. If an FIR is filed against an illegal hoarding owner, it is only done for the purpose of record to supply as facts during the next court hearing. There is no penal action imposed on the offender,” said activist   ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy.
 
 The issue concerning illegal hoardings is a behemoth even for the corporation. A former corporation official, requesting anonymity, told TOI that at least 7,500 hoardings dot Chennai skies. “And this is only a conservative estimate,” he said.
 
 Illegal hoardings also represent loss of revenue for the corporation. At present, the 93 legal hoardings, along with advertisements on bus shelters, contribute a little more than Rs 1 crore in advertisement tax revenue for the civic body.
 
 “If all illegal hoardings are brought under the tax ambit, the revenue earned could easily cross Rs 100 crore,” a corporation official said.
 
 In September 2016, the   government transferred the powers to grant hoardings permit from the district collector to the city corporation commissioner. Since then, the corporation has received a steady stream of hoarding permit applications. Sources said that at least 60-70 new hoarding permits have been issued as well.
 
 “Several applications are rejected because they fail to make the cut with the city police. Obtaining an NOC from police and the zonal officer is crucial,” an official said. Temporary hoardings, whose permit period range is from 1 to 90 days, are processed at the regional deputy commissioner level. Licence permit of all authorised hoardings ought to be renewed annually.
 
 
