SURAT: Diamantaires in the world’s largest   in Surat are staring at tough days ahead. Following the   by   and Mehul Choksi, public sector banks have started issuing official orders to their respective branches to not issue fresh letters of undertaking (LoU) and letters of comfort (LoC) to their customers.

 In a letter to the zonal head in south Gujarat (a copy of which is with TOI), Bank of Baroda, which is among the leading banks financing the diamond industry, has instructed its branches to not issue LoUs and LoCs in favour of overseas suppliers, banks or financial institutions on behalf of customers for trade credit from February 20.
 
 Finance is key for Indian diamond sector, which cuts and polishes a billion pieces every year, with the export of polished diamonds pegged at $22 billion. It raises around $6 billion from India and $5.5 billion from international banking channels annually, according to Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC).
 
 The business is largely owned and controlled by Palanpur Jains, a close-knit community whose reach extends from Gujarat’s Surat to Antwerp in Belgium.
 
 In 2016, the London-based Standard Chartered announced shutting of its diamond and jewellery financing business after it was reportedly caught in the default of Winsome Diamonds and jewellery worth Rs6,500 crore, considered as the biggest default in the diamond industry. The bank had an exposure of $2 billion in diamond industry.
 
 Before this in 2014, Antwerp Diamond Bank (ADB) closed its diamond financing business, followed by Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and ABN Amro scaling back loan in the last two years and other lenders insisting on extra collateral.
 
 “This move by the banks will create huge financial problems for the diamond companies. From years, diamond industry is running on finance from banks and if this is stopped then there will be severe crisis of funds required to purchase rough diamonds from overseas buyers,” Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya said.
 
 Navadiya added, “After a long fight, we were successful in convincing public sector banks to extend finance credits to small and medium enterprises in the diamond sector. Recently, Karur Vysya Bank had approved line of credit for small firms, including my company. Though we are yet to get the credit approval, we fear the decision by the banks to not approve fresh LOUs to customers will cost us heavily.”
 
 Surat Diamond Association (SDA) president Babu Gujarati said, “Big diamond companies always enjoyed bank credits, but small players run their business on money borrowed from market on interest as high as 12-15 per cent. As the banks have furthered tightened the noose, the small players will be finished as the interest rate will go up.”
 
 Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide said, “Without bank financing, the entire diamond industry will collapse. If suppose a diamond company wants credit of say $10 million from a bank, the company will have to furnish 100 per cent collateral in the form of immovable properties, jewellery etc. The industry is heading for tough days.”
 
 
