BENGALURU : Wildlife experts say that unlike many other animals in the wild, leopards have a great ability to live alongside humans. Stories of leopards straying into villages and towns and carrying off dogs or cattle is not new. In recent times though, conflicts between human and the big cat have spiralled, thanks largely to humans encroaching on habitats of leopards. In this unequal battle, leopards have got the short end of the stick.

 Data from the state forest department shows that as many as 143 leopards have been captured in the last four years after they ventured into areas populated by humans. This translates into one leopard captured every 10 days. Of the 143, 50 were captured in Bengaluru city, and the neighbourhood — Bengaluru Rural and   districts.
 
 
  
 
 One of them includes the leopard that strayed into a private school in   and mauled a wildlife expert among others two years ago. Wild leopards straying into   is now more commonplace than scandal too.
 
 B P  , additional chief conservator of forests and member secretary,   reveals that the state, with an estimated 1,125 leopards, is home to the largest population of these big cats in the country after  . He insists incidents of leopards straying into human population is not new.
 
 “Incidents of leopards carrying away dogs or cattle in the night are also not new,” Ravi said. “It becomes a problem only when conflicts arise, as is happening now. The increase in number of leopard visits only shows that their habitats are under threat. With human activity increasing on forest fringes — and inside forests as well — incidents of big cats coming into conflict with humans have also gone up.”
 
 A senior official with the forest department said these conflicts are hurting the leopard population. Statistics show that of the 100 leopard deaths recorded in the state over the last four years, 60 have died unnatural deaths. The causes include road accidents, poisoning and snare traps.
 
 The official said the department has begun sending teams of volunteers to villages near forests to create awareness about leopards’ behavior. People are being told not to graze cattle in the forest and to report sightings of leopards.
 
