KOLKATA: Shaktipada Pachal and his wife   waited for over two months to file their case of a land dispute at their village in  . Precious time was lost as a neighbour increased encroachment and got more time to establish his claim over the piece of land as the Pachals could not move the court because of the ceasework.

 “After an unfavourable order from a lower court we decided to move the   but we could not do so because of the ceasework. We would make queries every week to find out when the courts will resume work as precious time was lapsing and the person who has encroached upon our land was getting more and more time to establish his claim on it,” said Shaktipada, 52.
 
  
 The corridors of the Calcutta High Court reverberated with activity since Monday morning. Senior lawyers and their understudies headed to various courtrooms since the morning. The muhuris set up their shops in the corridors where lawyers were busy updating themselves with progress in various cases. Advocates and anxious citizens whose cases were pending stood outside courtrooms waiting for their turns.
 
 “The hearing for my case is scheduled today and I hope it comes up for hearing. I have waited for over two months as the court was shut,” said Himanshu Roy, who came from Jodhpur Park.
 
 Over 14,000 members of three lawyers’ bodies — the Bar Association, Bar Library Club and the Incorporated Law Society — had struck work on February 19 demanding filling up of vacant judge posts in the court. The lawyers’ cease-work was withdrawn after four new judges were appointed and Justice   was made the Chief Justice.
 
 The resumption of work not only brought hope for the litigants but also those who run their business outside the court and depend on it for customers. The “court para”, as the pocket around the Calcutta High Court is popularly known as, is famous for the variety of street food on offer. From singara chaat to momo, from special tea to noodles, they are a must eat for every visitor to the high court.
 
 “On a day when the court is open, I sell more than 250 cups of tea. During these 70 days I did not sell more than 25 cups of tea daily because there were hardly any lawyers, litigants or other staff of the court around,” said Deepak Kumar, owner of  .
 
 For 63 typists on the Calcutta High Court premises some business trickled in after over two months. “This was the worst phase in the last three decades that I have been conducting my business here. Computers have already taken away 90% of our work. It is difficult to survive on such less money and the ceasework completely broke our backs,” said Pradip Kumar Mukherjee, anxiously waiting for customers in front of Gate E of the court.
 
 The cops at all the gates of the court and outside the courtrooms were back to being their alert self. Many of them admitted that such a long break had taken them away a little from their focus.
 
 “It was a long break and hardly anyone would come to the court. From today onwards we are only concentrating on our work,” said a young sub-inspector in charge of frisking visitors to the court.
 
 
