AMRITSAR: Conceding the demand of charitable religious institutions, including Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ), for waiver of Goods and Services Tax (GST) on “langar”, the Centre has decided to reimburse its share of   on purchase of raw food items by these institutions.

 The SGPC now wants the Centre to refund the sum of Rs 3.2 crore already paid as GST on the purchase of items like sugar, ghee, tea leaves and LPG used in the langar at Golden Temple.
 
 The scheme, having an financial outlay of around Rs 325 crore from 2018-19 to 2019-20, has been notified by the ministry of culture. 
 
 The government order states that under the scheme, CGST and central government’s share of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) paid on purchase of specific items by charitable religious institutions for disturbing free food to public shall be reimbursed as financial assistance by the Union government under ' '.
 
 Minister of food processing Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who is the wife of   (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, announced this at press conference in Delhi. Welcoming the decision, Sukhbir, who was also present there, said it showed the commitment of his party towards the entire Sikh community and towards all faiths. The Badal couple thanked the PM for taking this decision. 
 
 SGPC president   said GST was an additional financial burden on the committee and the money thus saved could be spent on other social welfare measures. 
 
 SGPC additional secretary D S Bedi said the government should now initiate the process to refund the GST paid by the committee, which spends around Rs 70 crore on purchase of items for langar every year for preparing and serving free food to 70,000-80,000 pilgrims every day .
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh said it was a case of “better late than never”. Terming the levying of GST on langar as ill-conceived, the Punjab CM said he had written to finance minister Arun Jaitley in July 2017 to scrap it.
 
 Punjab had waived its share of GST on langar and prasad in March to ease the burden on the Golden Temple as well as two Hindu religious shrines.
 
 Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla credited Amarinder Singh for this. He pointed out that since the waiver of state GST,   leaders had been reminding the Centre to waive its share.”
 
 
