DIBRUGARH/GUWAHATI:  , a 35-year-old police officer who was killed in the encounter with   militants in  's   district, was laid to rest with full state honours on Saturday. 

 On Friday, Kalita had led a team of security personnel to raid a house in which a five-member heavily armed Ulfa (I) group had taken shelter.
 
  In a telephonic interview to a local news channel, Paresh Baruah, Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief, said Ulfa cadres had not killed Kalita intentionally but had only fired at him in  . He also conveyed his condolences to Kalita's family.
 
 
 
 
 The slain police officer's wife, Sangita Kalita, said her husband was preparing to take leave and return home. "He also asked me to get ready and wear the blue dress. But that never happened," she said. 
 
 "We are shocked because we just lost a brave son of the soil. We were always proud of him. He always performed his duties with bravery," said a neighbour at the cremation ground. 
 
 Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah on Saturday expressed his sorrow over Kalita's death. In a telephonic interview to a local news channel, Baruah said the Ulfa (I) cadres had not killed the police officer intentionally but had only fired at him in an act of self-defence. He also conveyed his condolences to Kalita's family.
 
 "Our boys did not kill Bhaskar Kalita intentionally. It was an act of self-defence. Bhaskar Kalita was a son of Assam and we are also pained by his death. The security forces attacked us and our boys had to fire to save themselves. Kalita died in the crossfire," Baruah said. "In fact, during a general meeting five years ago, we had taken a resolution that we would never attack or kill any Assam Police officer or constable. We have not attacked a single police station since then but we only retaliate to defend ourselves," he added.
 
 Following the incident, director general of police Kuladhar Saikia rushed to Tinsukia on Saturday. Accompanied by additional DGP (prosecution) RP Meena and DIG (Eastern Range) SP Mugdhajyoti Mahanta, the DGP also visited the house of Ranjan Bora where the encounter had taken place. He later chaired a high-level security meeting which was attended by top officials of various security agencies. 
 
 Condoling the death of Kalita, the DGP said, "We have lost a young and brave officer. Operations against the Ulfa (I) will be intensified now. All security agencies have been alerted so that the militants cannot escape. I also spoke to the Arunachal Pradesh DGP and he too has assured all cooperation in the fight against the militants."
 
 The DGP added that an inquiry will be initiated to find the reliability of the bullet-proof vests used by the state police forces. Despite reportedly wearing a vest at the time of the encounter, Kalita's injuries to his chest and abdomen turned out to be fatal. "Sometimes, when bullets repeatedly hit the same spot, they can penetrate a bullet-proof jacket. An inquiry will be initiated to know the exact cause of the failure," Saikia said. Denying reports that two Ulfa (I) rebels had been killed in the encounter, Saikia said some militants might have possibly been injured in the gun battle. 
 
 Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal strongly condemned the incident and expressed his condolences on Saturday. He also announced an ex gratia of Rs 20 lakh to the family of the slain police officer while also giving his assurance that Kalita's family would be entitled to draw his full salary till the time that he would have retired. 
 
 "Deeply anguished by the death of Assam Police officer Bhaskar Kalita who was martyred while leading anti-insurgency operations in Bordumsa. My condolences to the bereaved family. We will be steadfast in our fight against insurgency and not allow this sacrifice to go in vain," Sonowal tweeted on Saturday.
 
 Himanta also took to Twitter promising action against the rebels. "My deepest condolences to family of brave police officer Sri Bhaskar Kalita who died in an encounter with militants in Tinsukia. We shall not let the sacrifice of Kalita in line of duty go in vain. We shall hunt down perpetrators of the crime," he wrote. 
 
 Some of the youngest and newly recruited members of Ulfa (I), led by the infamous Jaan Asom, were reportedly involved in Friday's encounter. Security forces launched a massive counter-offensive against the Ulfa (I) rebels in the Bordumsa area of Tinsukia district on Saturday. DGP Saikia said operations against the Ulfa (I) will be further intensified now while adding that a massive search and combing operation has been launched by the police, Army and CRPF to nab the militants. 
 
