AHMEDABAD:   on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre and the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad ( ) in response to a PIL filed by the IIM alumni association demanding implementation of the reservation policy in admissions for its doctoral programme.

 Global IIM Alumni Network filed the PIL through advocate, Hirak Ganguly, seeking directions to the central authorities and IIM-A to make appropriate provisions for reservation according to the rules of the Central Education Institute (Reservation in Admissions) Act-2006 and the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act-2017 for admission in Fellow Programme for Management (FPM). Quota has been demanded for SC, ST, OBCs and the physically challenged categories .
 
 The petitioner was seeking a stay on the admission procedure for FPM which is due to be completed on January 28. But the high court did not grant any stay. The court has sought replies by February 7 from the authorities concerned.
 
 The petitioner submitted before the high court that the   had written to the IIM-A director on April 19 last year raising the issue of reservation in teaching posts at IIMs. The institute was requested to take appropriate steps to ensure that SC, ST and OBC categories are adequately represented in the faculty. Moreover, the Centre has also requested the IIM-A director to enroll and admit more students for the FPM programme so that they could become prospective faculty members at the institute.
 
 The PIL has further said that in its advertisement for admission to FPM, the IIM-A did not mention that there was any provision for quota for under-represented communities. It has not only flouted constitutional provisions but also proved that its attitude is ‘socially retrograde’. It also mentioned that IIM, Bengaluru, has introduced the quota system for admissions in such a programme.
 
 The PIL has alleged that the premier institute is conducting admissions for FPM in gross violation of constitutional provisions and the central law. 
 
 The petitioner has demanded a stay on admission process which is due to be completed by January 27. However, the high court has not granted any stay.
 
 
