HYDERABAD: Nearly half a dozen private universities have already shown interest in opening up academic avenues in Telangana. Rules for the   State Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) Bill, which was passed in the Assembly on March 28, will be framed soon.

 While the fee, as such, will not be regulated, a representative of the government will be on the board of every private university. It will, however, be made clear to the universities that they are expected to be reasonable on the fee structure.
 
 Official sources told TOIon Wednesday that the rules will notify the minimum land that the universities need to set up their campus. “The state government will not provide land for any private university. However, all clearances for setting up the universities will be ensured through a single window so that there is no delay on the part of the government,” an official said.
 
 Private universities will have to follow the laid down rules to get clearances without delay. The ‘single window’ clearance will be on the lines of the single widow clearance rule for industries in the state.
 
 “Private universities will provide quality education and might have faculty from foreign universities if they have a tie-up. Students will benefit from quality education that is required in the market suited for available jobs,” the official said. “This, however does not mean that the state government will neglect its own role in higher education. In fact, all higher education institutions will have to galvanise themselves to providing quality education in the government sector too,” he added.
 
 While allowing private universities to be set up, the state government will also take utmost care in ensuring that ‘flyby-out’ operators do not try to set shop. The rules being drafted will have details like how much corpus fund the society or trust that will set up the universities should have. There will also be background checks on the applicants.
 
 Since a government representative will also be on the board of every private university, there will be involvement without interference by the government to see that it functions as per the rules.
 
