New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed surprise at Delhi   officers acting as special executive magistrates (SEMs) who allegedly reject bonds arbitrarily to imprison protesters or those facing proceedings for involvement in scuffles.

 Hearing a PIL by advocate Aldansih Rein complaining about arbitrary exercise of powers by SEMs, a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra said, “I have been in the legal profession and as a judge for the last 39 years. But I have never found a special executive magistrate rejecting a bond given by a person to keep peace and sending him to jail.”
 
 Rein drew the court’s attention to an affidavit filed by Delhi Police, which informed that 23,140 persons were arrested in 2017 under breach of peace provisions of CrPC and as many as 6,879 persons were sent to jail. The CJI said, “There may be some states where SEMs show such hostile attitude.” Rein alleged that those sent to jail in this arbitrary manner were also not provided legal aid.
 
 Turning to Delhi Police counsel R Balasubramanian and Prabhas Bajaj, the CJI said he was adjourning the hearing on the PIL till April 16 to grant an opportunity to Delhi Police to mend the process adopted by SEMs.
 
 Under Chapter 8 of the Criminal Procedure Code, breach of peace or apprehension of breach of peace allows police to   a protester or mischief monger and produce him before the SEM while drawing proceedings under which the SEM could ask the accused to submit bonds promising to keep peace.
 
 In its affidavit, Delhi Police defended the exercise of power by SEMs and said only assistant commissioners of police were designated as SEMs. “Maintenance of law and order has several peculiar dimensions. Being the national capital, protesters and agitators from all over the country converge in Delhi, which is host to a large number of protests on a regular basis,” the affidavit said.
 
 “The provisions under Chapter 8 of CrPC have been effectively used by Delhi Police to maintain law and order effectively in the national capital, particularly in situations where the agitators choose to wilfully defy legal directions of the police and persist with creating situation in breach of peace,” it added.
 
 Denying it deliberately arrested a person on Friday to keep the person in custody for the next two days as these were holidays, the police said, “Even if a person is arrested a day prior to holiday, holding of court by SEM should not be a problem.” It promised to further streamline the working of SEMs.
 
 
