  : The Nationalist Congress Party ( ) on Tuesday launched its campaign in poll-bound Meghalaya with its national general secretary Praful Patel releasing the first list comprising six candidates - ECB Bamon (Mowkaiaw), John D Sangma (Ranikor), Tyngshain Lapang (Mawhati), Ronaldson Dkhar (Nongthymmai), Predecessor Rumnong (Pynthorumkhrah) and Andrew Charles Gare (Mawwhynrut). 

 Addressing media persons after laying the foundation stone for NCP's city office here, Patel said the party will contest in 22 out of 24 seats in the Garo Hills while it will contest around 20 seats in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills region. 
 
 Patel is scheduled to address an election rally in the Garo Hills on Wednesday. NCP, which had won two seats in the 2013 election, now has only one MLA in the assembly, MA Sangma, after the exit of Sanbor Shullai.
 
 Tuesday's development comes after Independent MLA Saleng A Sangma resigned from the assembly to take over as the NCP chief on Monday. 
 
 Shortly after Saleng took over, three BJP leaders and their followers also joined the NCP on the same day. 
 
 Patel on Monday also attacked the Congress-led government in the state claiming,"There is misgovernance of the highest order in Meghalaya and the state government has failed miserably to provide for the basic needs of the people." He also criticised the Mukul Sangma government for the alleged failure of the Megha Health Insurance Scheme (MHIS) adding that funds have not been utilized for upgrading hospitals and medical facilities in the state.
 
 The NCP leader also lambasted the BJP for its "divisive policies" accusing the party of interfering with the food habits and cultural and religious freedom of the people.
 
 He, however, defended the decision of the NCP for not supporting the late PA Sangma in the 2012 presidential elections even though he was one of the founders of the party. Following disagreements with the party over his desire to take part in the elections, Sangma was expelled from the NCP and he went on to form the National People's Party (NPP), an NDA ally. 
 
 Responding to queries, Patel recalled that PA Sangma did not contest the presidential elections with the approval of the NCP and did so as an independent individual. "We are a political party and we take decisions at the working committee-level. There was no reason for PA Sangma to contest the elections at that time against the wishes of the NCP's working committee," he told reporters. He also pointed out that since the NCP during that time was a part of the UPA, there was no question of the party putting up a presidential candidate of its own.
 
 He, however, called PA Sangma a 'dear friend' and said it was a decision taken at the highest party level to induct his daughter   into the ministry out of sheer respect for him and the people of the state. 
 
 Emphasizing that the NCP holds PA Sangma and his family in the highest possible regard, Patel added that the NDA should have given the veteran leader an important position in the government since he was the senior-most person and also a former Lok Sabha speaker from the Northeast.
 
 
