Actress Swara Bhasker’s brother Ishaan got married in Lucknow to long-time girlfriend Bhoomika Joshi, on Monday. The actress, like a typical Indian dulhe ki behan, danced with abandon in her veere di wedding. 

  
  Swara dancing in the baraat of her brother Ishaan Bhasker's wedding in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 The celebrations for the wedding started much before the D-day when the baraat left for Lucknow from Delhi by train. "Train mein baraat le ke aane ka apna alag hi mazaa hai. It’s all going to be a very 'Tanu Weds Manu' kind of shaadi where the whole family will travel in a train for the wedding. Hamare saath dhol wale bhi honge and there will be a DJ too who will play and all of us will dance. It’s going to a be huge celebrations. And haan, we will also decorate all the bogeys with gende ke phool," Swara had told us last year while planing for the wedding. 
 
  
  Akhil Kang and Bidya Mohanty and Florentina Garcia and Maximilian Murck (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Chaitilin Mcmillan and Ishan and Naina (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  
 The baraat reached the city on Saturday morning with the Bhasker clan in full force including Uday and  , and Swara and Ishaan’s friends from India and abroad. "It's been a crazy three-four days and we've been having a blast," said Swara in between the various wedding ceremonies. The wedding celebrations too were replete with some exciting moments with a 'Launda naach' and Maanganiyaar singers and folk dancers performing in between the ceremonies. 
 
  
    and   with Abhay Joshi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Neetu Sarin and Renu and Charu Joshi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Uday and Ira Bhasker and Aga and Travis (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Folk dancers at the wedding (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 Giving Swara company in the celebrations was Lucknowite National Award winning writer of ' ' and 'Tanu Weds Manu', Himanshu Sharma, her beau.
 After three days of mehndi, sangeet,cocktail parties and naach-gaana, the wedding was solemnized at a resort on the outskirts of Lucknow. Swara, in her inimitable style again stole the show with her thumkas in the baraat. 
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
