RAJKOT: Most parts of Gujarat, especially   and Surat in south Gujarat, continued to boil under the severe   conditions for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. 

 Porbandar that had recorded the highest temperature of 42.5°C on Monday was the second highest temperature ever recorded in coastal city in month of March since 1994. The temperature in coastal towns of Porbandar and Veraval were 10° and 9° above normal respectively, according to the weather department. 
 
 In wake of the heat wave, civic bodies across Saurashtra have issued warning for citizens. In Surat, normal life was disrupted as people preferred to stay indoors. Many cases of people fainting due to dehydration were reported in the Diamond City, as the mercury remained above 40°C for the third consecutive day. On Tuesday, Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) issued yellow alert and advised people to be careful during the noon time. 
 
 Jayant Sarkar, director of  , said that maximum temperature was likely to come down on Wednesday as the wind patterns had changed to southwesterly to westerly from northerly to northeasterly. On the drastic increase in temperature of coastal region of Gujarat, Sarkar attributed it to the intensity heat wave increase due to global warming and climate change effect.
 
 “The temperature may decrease on Wednesday due to change in wind direction that will bring moisture but after that, once again, heat wave may prevail on Saurashtra and Kutch region over the weekend (March 30 and 31),” said Sarkar.
 
 Officer in-charge of IMD Rajkot N D Ukani said, “The wind is moving from land to sea and that has created the heat wave. It doesn’t usually happen. The wind from Rajasthan desert over Kutch, Jamnagar, Porbandar and Veraval have led to high temperature in Saurashtra.”
 
 In Surat, many people fainted and suffered dehydration as the mercury soared past 40°C for the third day on Tuesday. The city that recorded highest temperature in March at 41.8°C on Monday, witnessed slight fall in temperature to 40.6°C on Tuesday.
 
 Surat Municipal Corporation had issued an advisory of heat wave for Tuesday and Wednesday, with the possibility of the mercury remaining over 40°C. 
 
 
