GURUGRAM: The newly elected   have decided to get for themselves ‘office assistants’, to help them with their IT-related work and “bring efficiency”.

 The move could actually improve the councillors’ efficiency, but critics say it will drain public exchequer of the money that could have been put to better use. 
 
 According to an official release on Friday, all the 35   will have one personal assistant who will help them with their official work. Mayor Madhu Azad said, “The appointment is validated as the councillors need an assistant for their official work and also for computer-related work in their respective offices.”
 
 MCG officials said the   would be paid as per the rate for personal and   assistants for other departments, which is fixed by the deputy commissioner every year. The existing rate is Rs 16,600 per month, which is expected to be revised to Rs 18,440 per month for 2018. At this rate, each personal assistant will cost the corporation around Rs 2.2 lakh a year. For all 35 wards, the cost would come to around a substantial Rs 77 lakh. Add to this the expenses on councillors’ offices, and the   will take a hit that runs into over Rs 1 crore. 
 
 Opposition leaders have expressed their disapproval at the move, saying that the money could instead be used for public welfare. Besides, the councillors have never had any assistants in the past. “While state and central ministers do have assistants, there is no such need for councillors. They were probably inspired by ministers and other officials,” said Gopi Chand Gehlot, INLD.
 
 The opposition has further alleged the BJP government of setting a precedent and legalising such posts to employ their own people. “They have also created such posts under the name of “good governance executives”, where they employ their own people. Also, with the jurisdiction of the corporation getting restricted, now that GMDA has been formed, the move is useless and wasteful,” said the Congress spokesperson Ashish Dua.
 
 Discussions are also under way to provide each councillor with an officer for their respective wards, a move that is likely to be approved soon. The issue of offices for the councillors is likely to be taken up in the House meeting on Monday, along with other issues such as the councillor fund, which is used for development works in respective wards. Interestingly, the councillors haven’t yet been approved the development fund which they can use in their wards. The councillors are also expected to discuss formation of committees at the next House meeting. A media house has also been proposed by a few councillors, and might come up for discussion on Monday. 
 
 It may be recalled that the previous house meeting was also largely restricted to discussing issues such as councillor funds, offices and committees, while pressing civic issues such as lack of infrastructure and MCG’s takeover of private areas were hardly mentioned.
 
 
