TIRUNELVELI: Six days after the murder of special branch police constable S Jegadish Durai, 33, special teams have nabbed Murugan, the prime accused in the murder case. Durai was beaten to death by a gang when he had gone to   near Parappadi, Nanguneri, after receiving information about illegal sand mining on Sunday night. His body was found the next morning.

 Initially, police said that three people were involved in the crime, but during the course of inquiry they came to know that six people were involved. “With the arrest of Murugan all the accused have been arrested. We have arrested five while one surrendered before the court,” superintendent of police (SP) of   district P   said.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, a senior police officer said that two to three people among the accused functioned as the patrolling team ahead of the tractor and trailer that was carrying smuggled sand. “The escort team would inform the tractor if it spotted the police enroute,” the officer told TOI.
 
 It is learnt that on Sunday night the patrolling gang missed Durai, who reached   village to check illegal sand mining. When the accused in the tractor saw him they drove through agricultural fields and barren lands in the village.
 
 During the escape bid, the axle of the trailer got cut and one of the two wheels of the trailer got detached and rolled away. The miscreants abandoned the vehicle and hid in the nearby fields. By then, Durai reached the spot and stood near the tractor and trailer. Meanwhile, those in hiding informed the others in the patrolling team and they reached the spot.
 
 A senior police officer said that two of the accused stood guard to check if policemen or people were coming by that side while other four surrounded Durai. It is learnt that three people caught hold of the his hands and legs while another hit him on his head with a metal weapon, leaving him dead on the spot. Police sources said that they are taking steps to detain the arrested under the Goondas Act.
 
 Meanwhile, funds are pouring in from police personnel and officers in the district for extending financial support to his family. Police sources said that the Tirunelveli district police unit has collected more than Rs 10 lakh and that they are continuing to receive donations. Police personnel and officers from other districts in south zone are also collecting funds. It would be collectively handed over to the grieving family soon.
 
 
