PANAJI: Renowned Goan Bharatanatyam dancer   will be performing on February 21 at the prestigious Taj Mahotsav in Agra. 

 Organised by the tourism department of the UP government, the event showcases performances by some of the country’s finest classical dancers and musicians, and witnesses a mammoth footfall.
 
 “I have chosen traditional compositions of Tanjore Quartet,” Barve said, ahead of her solo Bharatanatyam recital at the festival, whose theme this year is Dharohar or inheritance.
 
 “I was initiated into dance at the age of five. Watching me get engrossed in dancing on any kind of music, my mother decided to enroll me in classes conducted by guru Badrinath Kulkarni in 1975. My gurus and my mother were my inspiration,” she said, visibly elated at being selected to perform at the revered festival.
 
 While she has many performances to her credit, Barve is best known for her presentation at Leh, Ladakh, in June 2017, where she did a 50-minute-long dance concert on a platform located at approximately 11,562 feet.
 
 “The organizers had said dancers who have performed in the past were able to dance only up to 20-25 minutes due to the high altitude. I danced for nearly 50 minutes, explaining the dance compositions in between. It was an amazing experience of Indian unity in diversity,” she said.
 
 For her choreographies, Barve says she studies the composition, its literal and philosophical meaning, melody and rhythmic structure carefully. “Detailed research and analysis of the composition on the basis of the nayaka-nayika bhedas given mainly in the Natyashastra, also help in gaining deeper understanding. This helps present the composition convincingly and do justice to it and the composer,” she explained.
 
 Sharing some pearls of wisdom with aspiring dancers, the danseuse said, “There is no scope for mediocrity and no alternative to hard work in classical Indian dancing. Our classical dance forms are our precious heritage and it’s our responsibility to preserve them in their genuine form.”
 
 
