Delhi-based seventy-year-old Rukmini* was in the throes of depression and there was little that would cheer her up. As if the protracted thrice-a-week ordeal of going through dialysis wasn’t bad enough, her doctor decided to amputate her leg to stave off further health complications. So, last week, when stand-up comedian   landed up in her house to try to lift her spirits and get a laugh out of her with his comic act, and succeeded, it was like a whole new lease of life for her, say her family members.

 Papa CJ, who launched this happiness initiative, says, “I believe that celebrity is a currency and what matters is how you choose to spend it. With that thought in mind, I started The Papa CJ Happiness Project. In my first initiative in May 2017, I put out an open offer out to charities across the country, making myself available to do pro bono shows. This year I wanted to do something at a more personal level. I wanted to go to people who may not be able to come to me. I wanted to go into homes and bring laughter and joy to families who were going through difficult times and could use an injection of infectious laughter.”
 
 There may be some who think of laughter as a frivolous companion to pain, but its power to heal is beyond any doubt. Take the case of Himesh*, 45, who was at the best phase of his career, when, suddenly and with no earlier history of any medical problem, he was felled by a brain stroke that affected his mobility. Though he’s now on the mend, it will be some time before he regains full mobility and stops slurring when he speaks.   is often seized by the ‘why-me’ moments that have him brooding for hours on end. When his family heard of Papa CJs offer, they decided to give it a shot in the hope of helping Himesh find his earlier mojo despite this setback. The comedian not only entertained the entire household with his stand-up act, he also trained Himesh’s carers in laughter yoga so that they could “inject a dose of humour” whenever Himesh was feeling low.
 
 Laughter, they say, is the best medicine, and a good dose could possibly do as much, if not more, in alleviating depression and fighting negative thoughts as conventional treatment. But how practical and easy is it to infuse laughter in spaces where there’s gloom and doom?
 
 ‘If you throw positive energy towards people and they can see that your intention is purely to bring them joy, they will enthusiastically jump on the happy wagon with you. And this does not exact an emotional toll from me at all. It does the opposite. I am inspired by the strength in adversity that I see in people and I feel blessed that I am able to bring them a little laughter and joy in a time of difficulty.”
 
 At Himesh’s and Rukmini’s homes, the comedian spent his first twenty minutes doing laughter yoga with them. Then came the 40-minute comedy performance. As a seasoned comedian he knows right from the word go if the patient is being responsive and receptive to the act. “In terms of content, I’ve been a professional comedian for almost 14 years now so I adapt it to suit the sensibilities of the people in the room,” says CJ.
 
 The entire show is planned around the patient and the intended outcome is for the patient to smile and enjoy the act. Asked if he recalibrates an in-progress session based on the patient’s response and if he can tell if his gags are working, CJ says, “Well of course, you can gauge how it is going down. If they are laughing, it is going well. And as any professional comedian would do, you adapt based on the reactions in the room. The fun part about such small personal performances though is that it’s like sitting with your own family at dinner. After I’ve told a joke, someone else may have a story to add and they jump right in. And when they are done, I either add to their story or bring it back and carry on the performance.”
 
 But much before he can make the patients smile, CJ says it’s the minute that his hosts open the door and usher him in with a smile that he knows the effort he will put into the evening will be every bit well worth the time spent in the house, or hospital.
 
 For any healing to be effective, one would need recurrent doses of it, but CJ’s happiness project, which is on till May 17, is a single-shot therapy. Does he follow up on the patients to ensure they receive their optimum dose of the laughter prescription? “Yes, I do keep in touch after my session. When I finish, I tell them that my ‘payment’ is that every morning I need to receive a laughing photograph of the person I’ve come to visit. I’m pleased to say I’ve been receiving these every day, even if it is from someone lying in a bed and undergoing dialysis. The feedback from the families is that it is making a big difference. I also train the families on how to do laughter yoga and encourage them to make a laughter a part of their daily life.”
 Ask Papa CJ what apart from the obvious joy of bringing a smile on the faces of his patients, and earning their goodwill and blessings has been his biggest high from this project?
 
 “I had a man tell me that I made his mother like life again and increased her life span. What more could anyone want?”
 
  * Names have been changed for reasons of privacy
 
 
