CHENNAI: After winning R K Nagar bypoll with a huge margin, dissident AIADMK leader T T V Dhinakaran on Monday announced that he would launch his public outreach programme from Thanjavur north district on February 2. He will pay a visit to four assembly constituencies, Tiruvidamurudur, Kudanthai, Papanasam and Thiruvaiyaru for four days to interact with people. 

 Incidentally, DMK leader M K Stalin is schedule to hold district-wise interactions with functionaries from panchayat level to districts at party headquarters Anna Arivalayam from February 1, after calling off his state-wide tour that he was to undertake from November 7. Actor Kamal Haasan recently announced that he will begin a state-wide tour, called   (Tomorrow is ours) from February 21 “to understand the needs of people.” He is expected to name his political party and spell out its ideologies at the beginning of his tour that he will launch from Abdul Kalam’s Rameswaram residence in Ramanathapuram district. 
 
 “TTV’s revolutionary tour covering all constituencies will end the tenure of the treacherous government. I request all sections of people to support the tour,” TTV supporter and his propaganda secretary Thanga Tamilselvan, a rebel MLA, said in a statement. The leader said it was the responsibility of the “true cadres” of former chief minister J   to protect the people from the   government that continued to serve its own interests.   said Jayalalithaa had taught cadres to always confront injustice. They should take a pledge to put an end to EPS government, he said.
 
 TTV loyalists and 18 disqualified MLAs have challenged the Speaker’s decision in the Madras high court, following chief government whip S Rajendran’s complaint. Chief justice   and justice M Sundar reserved the verdict after marathon arguments concluded last week. “The verdict will be in our favour for sure. We are ahead of all political parties in reaching out the public and bringing back a government that closely adheres to Amma’s principles,” another disqualified MLA and TTV supporter, P Vetrivel said.
 
 Meanwhile, Stalin’s interaction with partymen from February 1 is is expected to discuss preparatory work at the grass root level for the local body polls, given that the state is keen on holding it by April. 
 
