BENGALURU: The city is all set to get India’s first evening college for visual arts, said   (CKP) director B L Shankar on Sunday. The college will open with classes for masters and bachelors courses from the next academic session.

 Speaking at the inauguration of the 15th  , he added: “The evening college is mainly targeted at those who never got a chance to complete their education and working professionals who only have spare time in the evening. This will also encourage people who are interested in art as a hobby,” he said.
 
 In June, the Parishath will also get another campus, which will come up on a 14-acre plot provided by the government in  , said Shankar.
 
 “The first phase of work for the new campus has been completed at a cost of Rs 17 crore and the funds were allocated by the CM. While first-year undergraduate classes will be conducted at the old campus, second, third and fourth year classes, as well as masters, will be offered at the new campus,” he said.
 
 Noted scientist  , who inaugurated this year’s Chitra Santhe, spoke about the similarities between art and science. An award for artists was also instituted in his name on Sunday.
 
 “Art and science have the same background and they both have no limits. I have met amazing artists who state that they can keep practising their art till death as there is so much to create and do. This is an exquisite celebration of art. The government should encourage artists,” he said.
 
 Mayor R Sampath Raj also released a grant of Rs 27 lakh to develop CKP and imrpove its infrastructure. 
 
 The first winner of a special award instituted in the name of Chitrakala Parishath’s founder secretary, Professor M S Nanjunda Rao, was Kerala sculptor Kanai Kunhiraman, who received a citation and a cash prize.
 
 “Seeing all the artwork today made me emotional. We have a large number of artists, but we need more buyers. A new house is only complete when there is art on the walls. Now we are challenged by technology. How can we escape technology when you can paint and draw without a brush,” he asked.
 
 Four other artists were conferred with Chitrakala Sammana, the annual award of the Parishath.
 
 
