GURUGRAM: Earlier this year, a video uploaded on YouTube by a US-based channel showed a 24-year-old bodybuilder being likened to the original ‘Wolverine’,  . This ‘Wolverine Bodybuilder’ is none other than Gurugram’s very own   ‘Ronnie’ Joshi.

 The video has garnered more than a million views, and boosted Joshi’s profile no end. Yet his ‘Wolverine’ look is hardly new. “
 
 It’s a look I have managed to maintain continually for eight years, by competing, spending time in the gym and working out,” he told TOI.
 
 “Only now, however, am I getting famous for it!”
 
 Joshi just returned from Klaipėda, Lithuania, with the overall title at the 7th Pro Universe, 19th Pro and Am Europe Championship and 51st Amber Prix International, a series of events organised by the   (WFF) and the   (WBBF). This, effectively, made him Mr Universe for 2018, the second year in a row he has enjoyed success in the Baltic nation.
 
 Remarkably, the recent achievement came almost eight months on from that late September day in Punjab, when Joshi suffered serious injuries in a horrific road accident that left his hip dislocated and his head with major wounds. It was a cruel intervention by fate, for the WFF-WBBF World Championship was less than a month away.
 
 “I had to have plastic surgery on my face,” he revealed. “After that, the doctor told me I would not be able to compete for at least eight months, maybe up to a year, and he forbade me from doing so.”
 
 A mother’s care, as much as a young man’s tenacity and desire, enabled Joshi to get back up on his feet. “The credit goes to her – from 4 am in the morning to late at night, she put me on a diet high in proteins and calcium. This allowed the bones I had cracked in the accident to heal.
 
 “After that, I started walking, very slowly, and that too because of mom’s help. The doctor had barred me from walking so I only resumed once he said I could.”
 
 Now, ‘Mr Olympia’, among the most prestigious of bodybuilding meets, awaits in 2019. “It’s very difficult getting entrance into Mr Olympia,” he admits. But Joshi’s haul of medals and a burgeoning reputation have earned him direct entry into the Las Vegas event – a first for an Indian.
 
 Move over Hugh Jackman. For Rahul ‘Ronnie’ Joshi, the journey’s just beginning.
 
 
