NEW DELHI: As part of the transport department’s big push towards going completely online,   can now be   for all online   at the department’s offices.  , however, are not being accepted as yet.

 The AAP government wants almost all services provided by the   to go online, so that Delhiites don’t have to visit a regional transport office (RTO) to apply for a   or renew a permit.
 
 The government has been trying to provide more options to people for making payments. A transport department official said that making it possible for debit cards to be accepted for all   transactions was the result of persistent coordination with the finance department, Reserve Bank of India and other agencies.
 
 As part of the drive, four RTOs — at Janakpuri, Vasant Vihar, Mall Road and Indraprastha Estate — will become fully online by March 7. All applications and fees at these RTOs will be received online and applicants will be informed regularly through SMSes. The department plans to eventually provide services online at all its RTOs in the capital. The department will also set up help desks at these RTOs for those who might need help in filling forms online.
 
 Another major initiative by the department, which too will begin from March 7, is the online transfer of vehicle registration certificates (RCs). All RTOs will process the transfer of RC cases only online and applicants will have to visit the transport department office only in case of any discrepancy in documents or signatures. The department has already started sending RCs through speed post to the residence of applicants and SMS alerts are sent to applicants regularly after each transaction.
 
 The department has already made the process of applying and paying for driving license online and applicants only have to visit the office for a physical driving test, the appointment for which is also made online.
 
 “We want that apart from appearing for a driving tests, people should not need to visit a RTO at all. About 50,000 people visit the RTOs every day and if we are able to provide all services online, not only would it make the experience of people hassle-free but also ease the burden at RTOs,” a transport department official said. “Providing services online also makes the entire process absolutely transparent and applicants can easily track their cases without visiting the RTO,” he said.
 
 
