PATNA: The India Meteorological Department ( ) on Monday issued warning for ground frost at isolated places in all the 38 districts in the state for at least next three days as mercury plummeted to near freezing point at 1.2 degrees Celsius in Purnia and 2.2 degrees C in   in the morning.

 Purnia, Supaul and   have the strong possibility of experiencing ground frost conditions, Patna meteorological centre director   told TOI.
 
 As per meteorology, ground frost refers to the formation of ice with a temperature at or below freezing point on and near the ground. When the ground cools quicker than the air, a ground frost situation can occur without an air frost.
 
 IMD stated that the minimum temperature was appreciably below normal (3.1-5 degrees C below normal) at most places in   on Monday. Patna meteorological centre stated that cold day conditions prevailed at Bhagalpur and Supaul while Chhapra, Forbesganj and Muzaffarpur had severe cold day conditions on Monday.
 
 The Met office also issued warning for all three types of extreme winter conditions — dense fog cover, cold wave and cold day — in all the 38 districts over the next two days.
 
 Sengupta attributed the extreme wintry conditions to northwesterly winds blowing from the snow-fed Himalayan region. “Fresh snowfall has occurred in Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and neighbouring places due to a western disturbance in that region. Cold and dry northwesterly winds blowing from the Himalayan region to the northern plains are leading to sharp plunge in temperature at night hours in the region. Accordingly, we have issued warning for possibility of ground frost at isolated places in all 38 districts, with very likely possibility in northeastern districts, over the next three days,” Sengupta said.
 
 Senior citizens said such severe winter conditions were observed in Bihar only in 1983 when near freezing point temperatures were observed in many parts of the state.
 
 Bihar has been reeling under severe cold conditions ever since Christmas last year. Most parts of Bihar have been facing cold wave, cold day and dense fog conditions for the past 15 days, affecting train and flight operations and killing over a dozen people in different parts of the state. 
 
 In fact, the unbroken layer of fog spreading over 2,000km of the Indian subcontinent — starting from central Pakistan in the west, running right through the Indo-Gangetic plains and ending around Tripura in the last week, actually began on Christmas Day in east UP and Bihar.
 
 Though days are bit comparatively sunny from last Saturday, there was not much respite from the biting cold owing to chilly northwesterly winds. “As the skies are getting clear and intensity of fog is getting reduced, it is allowing rapid cooling of the earth surface at night hours, leading to sharp plunge in minimum temperature,” a meteorological scientist at Patna centre said.
 
 CHART:
 
 Lowest minimum temp in Bihar on Monday:
 
 Place Min temp (degrees C)
 
 Purnia 1.2
 
 Supaul 2.2
 
 Gaya 4.1
 
 Muzaffarpur 4.7 
 
 Patna 5.6
 
 
