NEW DELHI: Two more AAP legislators—Naresh Yadav from Mehrauli and   from Sangam Vihar—have come in the line of fire in the ongoing tussle between the Delhi government and the bureaucracy. Both MLAs allegedly threatened two government employees in their respective constituencies. 

 Amit Pandya, the   of a government senior secondary school in Mehrauli, has written to the director of education that Yadav threatened to transfer him out of the school when he refused to allow the laying of a water pipeline through the school campus. This happened a day after chief secretary   was allegedly attacked. Pandya has asked for security. 
 
 “I am suffering from mental stress and my family is feeling insecure,” Pandya has said in his complaint. 
 
 Yadav told TOI that he did say in Hindi, “Apna boriya bistar baandh lo (pack up and leave).” He also accepted that he was loud on phone while talking to Pandya. But he said at no point did he   Pandya with physical violence. 
 
 “Thousands of people in Mehrauli are not getting sufficient water due to problems in the water pipeline which is over 25 years old. It has to be replaced with a new pipeline for which the principal had agreed to allow the laying of the pipeline but suddenly changed his mind,” Yadav said.
 
 Elsewhere on Friday, Mohaniya allegedly used abusive language against Pawan Kumar, a junior engineer with south corporation, when he visited the house of a friend of the MLA at Tughlaqabad Extension to check for illegal construction. An audio clip circulating on social media claims it is Mohaniya using abusive language—a charge Mohaniya has denied. 
 
 But Mohaniya also said that it is natural for anybody to react that way when somebody enters his/her house without permission or without giving notice to the owner. “The JE didn’t give any notice to the house owner about any inspection. The house owner is my friend and told me about this. I told the JE that a police case would be lodged against him for this,” Mohaniya said. 
 
 But JE Kumar said he went to inspect the house with permission. “The same house was issued notice in 2003 for illegal construction. No action could be taken at that time because the law was amended. The inspection was carried out to verify if there was any more unauthorised construction,” Kumar said.
 
 The two cases have given ammunition to the bureaucracy. Many officers said on social media that these incidents were reflective of the harassment of government officials. 
 
 An association of corporation engineers has also condemned the incident and said it’s common for politicians to misbehave with engineers. The JE said he hasn’t filed any police complaint against the MLA because his father is hospitalised. 
 
 
