CHENNAI: Police have taken Prabhakaran, the fake income tax officer who had barged into the residence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s niece J Deepa on February 10 for a ‘raid’, to Puducherry after he confessed during interrogation that he had got the fake I-T identity card printed at a press in the Union territory. Police had earlier questioned the owner of the printing press.

 Prabhakaran had surrendered before the West Mambalam police station on February 12 after coming to know that police were chasing him. Before his surrender, Prabhakaran had apparently leaked a video clip on social media, in which he narrated about the incident at Deepa’s house, alleging that it was part of a plan hatched by Deepa’s husband Madhavan.
 
 Later, Prabhakaran, who runs an eatery ‘Selvaganapathy Mess’ in Puducherry, admitted to investigators he had planned to enter Deepa’s house on the pretext of conducting an I-T search in an attempt to “make some money” as he had lost more than Rs 20 lakh that he invested in the share market.
 
 After police obtained a three-day   to inquire Prabhakaran, police personnel took him to Puducherry on Thursday. The police officers said, “We are investigating more into the incident, as we strongly believe that Prabhakaran is not a single man. There may be few more people involved and they would have used him.” There are many unanswered questions. Why did he choose Deepa’s house to pose as an IRS officer? Also we have to inquire Prabhakaran if he had committed similar crimes in any other businessmen’s house in the city? Why did he give false statement and used Madhavan’s name?
 
 Prabhakaran entered Deepa’s house around 5am on Saturday. He had an ID card and a search warrant. He claimed his team was on the way, and he had come early to ensure no one had ‘escaped’. Deepa was not present when the incident occurred. “He showed the identity card and the search warrant to us. We believed it and allowed him to enter,” said  , advocate of MGR Amma   Forum. But something was off about this man, who went by ‘Mitesh Kumar’. The advocate, on suspicion, called police who intervened and began questioning Prabhakaran, when he suddenly tried to escape by scaling the compound wall.
 
 
