SYDNEY:   will provide the midfield spark for   as the Socceroos once again attempt to punch above their weight at their fourth straight  .

 
 The tenacious 27-year-old played a significant role as Huddersfield Town dodged relegation from the English  , most notably in attack but also with his defensive qualities.
 
 Relatively small and slightly built, Mooy's game is based around incisive passing and using a sharp footballing brain to be in the right place at the right time, scoring four league goals this season.
 
 "He has the tenacity of a young boy who just won't quit," said Erik Paartalu, a former team-mate of Mooy's at  .
 
 "He just wants to win at any cost and if things don't go well he'll push and push and push."
 
 Mooy has displayed the same resilience throughout a rollercoaster career which began when the Sydneysider left home as a teenager to join the Bolton Wanderers academy in north-west England.
 
 Disillusioned at a lack of opportunities after four years, he left for   seeking first-team football.
 
 But he suffered a back injury and could not nail down a regular starting berth with the Scottish team, who released him after two years.
 
 Mooy, whose most striking feature is his distinctive clean-shaven head, returned to Australia, his shot at playing in Europe seemingly over.
 
 But he applied himself in the A-League and blossomed at Melbourne City from 2014 to 2016, polishing his attacking game while also becoming a Socceroos regular.
 
 It was enough to catch the eye of  , who bought him in June 2016 and immediately loaned him to Huddersfield, who signed him for a club record fee last year.
 
 Mooy was instrumental in the Yorkshire club gaining promotion to the Premier League last year, scoring a vital penalty in the play-off final against Reading.
 
 His displays this year, including a winning goal against  , then helped the Terriers stay up.
 
 Quietly spoken off the field, he has become a fan favourite at Huddersfield, prompting chants of "he's got no hair but we don't care" from the stands.
 
