PISSURLEM: The blue barrels outside every house, be it large or dingy, are testimony to one of the worst imprints left by   in   village of Sattari taluka.

 Open cast iron ore mining in and around the village means that large amounts of   accumulates at the base of the mining pits. As far as 65-year-old Dhaku Panshekar can recollect, his family and neighbours have always lived out of water stored in barrels waiting outside their home. These barrels are brimmed every morning with water supplied through tankers by mining companies operating in the village.
 
 Each family must ensure the barrels suffice till the tanker arrives again the next day. “At times, the water is muddy but that is our best bet. We cannot complain,” says Panshekar. 
 
 “There is a water pipeline laid through the village. All we get is a monthly water bill and cannot recollect two consecutive days when water has flowed through our taps. For the last 15 days we haven’t received tap water. The excuse this time is that the pump has broken down,” he adds.
 
 It’s not just in Panshem, where Panshekar hails from, that the families have to depend on tankers. The situation remains the same across the eight wards and for 3,500 inhabitants of Pissurlem.
 
 It’s been like this for years but now they have reason to fear the worst.
 
 As Supreme Court directives have brought mining activities to a halt in Goa, mining companies have agreed to continue the water tanker supply till May 30. Come June, the decades-long water supply pattern will come to an end for the first time, leaving Pissurlem villagers with little hope but to pray to the rain gods for mercy.
 
 “Similarly, in 2012 when mining activities had stopped, the companies had continued supplying water. They should not stop now,” says Kamal Gaude of Shignem ward of Pissurlem.
 
 Open cast mining, decades of siltation, and less labourous job opportunities in the mines have left the streams dry, and agricultural land fallow. The last few fields in the village are only sown when the monsoon provides irrigation. As for the few remaining kulghars or plantations that require year-round water supply, a well is dug inside each of the plantations. But digging a well is a gamble in Pissurlem—there’s no guarantee of hitting water.
 
 “We used to once grow kulit, moong, urad, nachni in the village. Now, few fields only grow paddy. If you give the youngsters in the village a plough now, they wouldn’t know what to do with it,” says  , a farm labourer.
 
 
