NEW DELHI: An overcast sky and   on Tuesday afternoon brought down the maximum temperature by more than 10 degrees Celsius to 13 degrees Celsius compared to 25.2 degrees Celsius recorded on Monday. This significant fall in maximum temperature happened just after rainfall in parts of NCR on Tuesday afternoon. Before that, the maximum temperature recorded was 17 degrees Celsius. Total rainfall recorded till 5.30pm at Safdarjung weather station was about 4.4mm.

 While the city recorded an AQI of 325 on Monday, there was a marginal improvement to 318 on Tuesday. he chill is likely to linger for a couple of days — maximum temperature on Wednesday and Thursday is likely to be around 20 to 22 degrees Celsius. Another important forecast from Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Delhi is that there is going to be moderate to dense fog on January 24, 25 and 26. “Moisture levels have increased in northwest India, which will lead to morning fog for the next few days. Visibility may reduce to less than 200 metres,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, director at the regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC).
 
 The maximum temperature on Tuesday, though very low, is not at a record low. Last year, on January 18, the maximum temperature was 16 degrees Celsius. In 2015 on January 8 and January 23, the maximum was 13 degrees Celsius. In 2013, the maximum temperature on January 3 was 10 degrees Celsius and 12 degrees Celsius on January 12. The rainfall and subsequent drop in temperature on Tuesday was a result of a western disturbance. The WD is currently affecting the northwestern region in the form of an upper air trough from January 22 to January 24. 
 
 Its peak activity was on Tuesday, which led to the formation of an induced cyclonic circulation over west Rajasthan and surrounding areas.
 
 This weather system moved away swiftly from Delhi after the rainfall towards western UP and Uttarakhand. Palam on Tuesday recorded about 1mm, 4.7mm rainfall at Lodhi road, 5.6mm at Delhi Ridge, 1.8mm at Ayanagar, 7mm at Najafgarh and 8mm at Narela. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was about 9.4 degrees Celsius, still 2 degrees above normal. The sky may be overcast on Wednesday as well. There is no prediction for rain in the coming days.
 
 
