MUMBAI: Insurance companies are seeking an almost threefold increase in the   (PMSBY), which has seen a claim ratio of 200% in the first three years of operations.

 G Srinivasan, chairman of New India Assurance — the country’s largest non-life insurer, said, “The Rs 12-premium was not reviewed earlier as the government had said that they will wait for three years. Considering the 200% claims ratio, we feel that a price of Rs 35 would be appropriate.”
 
 The PMSBY, which provides a cover of Rs 2 lakh for accidental death and Rs 1 lakh for permanent disability, has seen enrolments of 13 crore individuals and has settled 14,400 claims of the nearly 19,000 received.
 
 According to Srinivisan, the Budget’s move to distribute micro-insurance through   accounts will increase non-life insurance penetration. He said that the   would also boost health insurance as insurers were best placed to provide the cover. “Insurers have over 10 years in managing mass schemes like   and despite initial losses I can say that schemes are moving in a viable model,” said Srinivasan.
 
 Pointing out that only Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were the states not using insurance to provide social cover, Srinivasan said that insurers bring in lot of efficiencies like systems and fraud control. “I feel that the state governments, which will be making the call, will go for the insurance model,” he said.
 
 New India Assurance on Saturday reported its highest ever quarterly net profit of Rs 617 crore for the quarter ended December 2017, driven by an improvement in underwriting margins. The company had reported a loss of Rs 24 crore in the same period last year.
 
 Srinivasan said that the company has designed a new health insurance plan for senior citizens and a new innovation in health insurance, which it would unveil shortly.
 
 According to Srinivasan, the Real Estate (Regulations & Development) Act has thrown up a big opportunity for non-life insurers as it has made it mandatory for builders to purchase title insurance. “We are launching this cover soon. While initially it will be purchased by builders, we expect a market among individuals and banks,” he said. The other new opportunity was in liability insurance.
 
 Following the introduction of the  , there is a demand for an insurance cover from insolvency resolution professionals (RPs) who run defaulting companies on behalf of creditors. New India has sold five such policies which defend the RPs from any claims arising out of their management actions.
 
 
