HYDERABAD: This Friday, Hyderabad is set to witness a historic event, the first in 325 years, when the President of Iran, Dr  , visits the grand Makkah Masjid here to address the weekly congregation. This is perhaps the first time that a head of state will address the Friday congregation (Jumu’ah) at the historic mosque, whose construction was completed in 1694 CE, 78 years after the foundation stone was laid by   ruler   in 1616 CE.

 This is also the first time that the Iranian President will arrive directly in Hyderabad instead of the national capital, New Delhi. He will arrive in the city from Tehran on February 15 and leave for Delhi on Saturday, after the Friday congregational prayers. In Delhi, Rouhani, who will be accompanied by a large Iranian delegation, is likely to sign memoranda of understanding with the government of India.
 
 He is likely to call on the President and the Prime Minister. A detailed itinerary will be known on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
 Though the Shah of Iran visited Hyderabad twice (mid 1950s and 1970s), he was not given the honour of addressing the Friday congregation at Makkah Masjid. After the Islamic Revolution in 1979, Mohammad Khatami became the first Iranian President to visit Hyderabad (January 28, 2004), but he, too, did not participate in the Friday congregation. Though Dr Rouhani is the second Iranian President to visit Hyderabad, he is the first Iranian head of state to be accorded the rare distinction of addressing the Jumu’ah congregation.
 
 Dr Rouhani’s visit to the Makkah Masjid bears a historic, religious and cultural significance. Incidentally, it was during the period of Qutub Shahi rulers Sultan Mohammad Qutub Shah VI, and his son Abdullah Qutub Shah VII that the name of the ruler (Shah) of Iran was specifically mentioned in Friday sermons in all mosques in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the Qutub Shahi kingdom. Makkah Masjid, however, was under construction during the Qutub Shahi regime and it was completed by  . The Jamia Masjid, a few yards from Makkah Masjid, was the central mosque of Hyderabad during the Qutub Shahi period and the name of the Iranian ruler was recited in Friday sermons. The   was built in 1594-95 CE.
 
 Much water has flowed down the Puranapul since the Qutub Shahis, who were of Iranian descent. Though the name of the President of Iran will not be mentioned in the Friday sermon now, Dr Rouhani, in fact, will address the faithful after the congregational prayers.
 
 The President’s visit gains significance also because Hyderabad was planned on the model of Isfahan over 400 years ago, and the master architect of Hyderabad and Charminar was of Iranian origin.
 
 One of the reasons for the Mughal rulers to attack Hyderabad was the recital of the name of the Shah of Iran (Safavid dynasty) in Friday sermons. Emperor Shahjahan was so angry that he sent a letter to Abdullah Qutub Shah VII to stop mentioning the name of the Shah. Noted historian Abdul Majeed Siddique in his ‘History of Golcunda (1956)’ quotes Shahjahan’s letter that orders “the abandonment of the name of the Safavid King and replacement thereof by the emperor’s own name in both, the Friday sermons and coins”.
 
