HYDERABAD: After launching 24x7 power supply to the agriculture sector from January 1,   State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited ( ) has proposed automated distribution and real-time monitoring for power supply in industrial areas.

 The new monitoring system would be implemented in 28 industrial areas and 94 industrial parks in  , Medak, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar and   districts. Fourteen industrial areas and 46 industrial parks are located in Greater Hyderabad.
 
 “The purpose of adopting automation and real-time monitoring system in industrial sector is to reduce duration of faults and frequency of breakdowns. Second, if there is breakdown in any line, the system automatically isolates the problem area from other areas and they get power supply without any outage. If these two are tackled, even industries will get power with minimum breakdowns,” TSSPDCL director (projects) T Srinivas told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Technically, the project is to bring down the system average interruptions frequency index (SAIFI) and system average interruption duration index (SAIDI), which indicate efficiency of the discom. If the SAIDI and SAIFI are improved, it helps in improving revenue and ensures that huge amounts are not spent on backup arrangements.
 
 “The discom called for expression of interest from bidders couple of days ago. The bidders will have to install distribution automation equipment on 11kV overhead lines and integrate with the control centres. They will also maintain it for five years,” the director said.
 
 The state government energy department had earlier asked the SPDCL to study the system and introduce it for industrial sector. “For attracting investments, it is equally important to provide power without interruption apart from providing hassle-free required permissions,” a chief general manager of TSSPDCL said.
 
 Telangana government introduced Telangana State Industrial Project Approval and Self Certification System couple of years ago for hassle-free industrial permissions within two weeks and also to attract investments. The system got accolades from various organizations and state governments. Last year, Telangana achieved first rank in ease-of-doing-business. The distribution companies have been asked to give power connections to the industrial sector without any delay.
 
 
 
