Panchkula: Hoshiarpur lad   scored twice helping   beat Shillong Lajong 3-2 in their Hero   match at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Panchkula on Wednesday. With the victory, the club from Mohali dethroned Neroca FC at the top with 29 points from 13 matches whereas the Manipur-based outfit has 27 points playing a match extra.

 The home side enjoyed unparalleled support from the crowd and the Viking claps on the beat of the song 'Unchiya hi galla tere yaar diya’ reverberated the Tau Devi Lal Stadium.
 
 But the high-voltage match did have its share of controversies. It was during the 90th minute of the match, when Lajong’s Samuel Lalmuanpuia dribbled past the Minerva defenders and managed to lob it in front of the goal. Abdoulaye Koffi was quick to react heading it into the net, but the referee didn’t allow the goal on the ground that Koffi had fouled the Minerva custodian. Lajong players and the bench were clearly unhappy with the decision.
 
 A crucial encounter for Minerva, they were unstoppable in the first half. Five minutes into the game, central defender Eric Dano, produced an excellent half volley to give Minerva the lead. This was an important goal for Minerva since they’ve never lost a game this season, after scoring first in a match. It came from a long throw by Sukhdev Singh that was masterfully flicked on by Bali and Dano had all the time in the world to convert it into a goal.
 
 The visitors found it tough to handle the challenge from Minerva in the first half. So dominating were the Minerva players that their custodian Rakshit Dagar was not troubled in the first 20 minutes of the match.
 
 Meanwhile, Sukhdev’s long throw was catching the Lajong defenders unawares and Lawrence Doe almost turned one of them into his own net but Lajong goalie Phurba Lachpenpa averted the mess.
 
 East Bengal reject Armand Bazie was the most impressive Minerva player throughout the first half and showed why he is so highly rated. Bazie with skipper Kassim Aidara dominated the midfield and kept the Lajong defenders on their toes.
 
 Minerva struck another one through Bali just seconds before the halftime after setting off Chencho Gyeltshen on the run down the right flank and meeting his low cross at the end of a great run. The Bhutanese produced a brilliant cross back into the box and all Bali had to do was to simply tap the ball into the empty net. The first half ended with a scoreline of 2-0 in favour of the home side.
 
 Lajong made a half-time substitution as Alen Deory joined the fray at the expense of F Lalrohlua which had an instant impact on them. Lajong clawed their way back into the game in the second half with Daniel Odafin (60th) and Lawrence Sokota Doe (67th) scoring in quick succession to put the visitors back in the reckonings.
 
 Bali finally put Minerva ahead in the 80th minute with his weaker foot (left) after cashing in on a confusion among Lajong defenders.
 
 
