NEW DELHI: The   did not   its   S K   before   the   of 20 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs in the  , because the then Chief Election Commissioner A K Joti decided to finalise the opinion barely days before demitting office and did not feel the need to seek legal opinion.

 “Joti announced his intent to finalise opinion (in the office-of-profit petition) days before his retirement. The legal adviser was not consulted as the CEC chose to rely on case papers, hearings and written submissions. In fact, whether or not to seek legal opinion on any matter is the prerogative of the Commission. EC is neither bound to consult its legal adviser or any other officer of its law department in cases before it nor is it bound to accept their advice,” a senior EC functionary told TOI. 
 
 On delinking of Gujarat poll announcement from Himachal Pradesh — which Mendiratta, as per a media report published on Thursday, claimed had dented the image of the EC just as the Delhi HC order reversing disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs had — the functionary clarified that legal advice was not required for scheduling polls. “It is a management issue handled by the planning division of the Commission,” said an officer. Mendiratta, when reached by TOI, claimed he came to know of EC’s impending announcement of Himachal poll upon reaching office that morning. “In the past, I have been involved in consultations on poll schedule,” he said.
 
 Mendiratta’s contract with EC ended on March 31, capping his five-decade association with the poll body. According to sources, Mendiratta had sounded EC beforehand that he would not like to continue.
 
 TOI has learnt that there were no notings on the office-of-profit case file relating to legal opinion on whether oral hearings were required before EC finalised its recommendation. However, the recommendation sent to the President on January 19 — bearing signatures of Joti and election commissioners O P Rawat and Sunil Arora — had cited AAP MLAs’ final submission that they had nothing further to add, as a ground for not granting oral hearing. 
 
 Mendiratta was not involved in drafting of the final recommendation as EC chose to rely on its regular legal officers. He told TOI: “As a consultant, I offer opinion when it is sought. It is the Commission’s prerogative to seek the same”. He said he was only associated with office-of-profit case till June 2017, when EC decided on maintainability of the petition.
 
 An EC official said since no hearings were held thereafter and only written submissions were sought, “there was no occasion to seek legal advice”. 
 
 Asked if he would have advised EC to conduct oral hearings if consulted, Mendiratta chose not to reply to the “hypothetical question”. “The Delhi High Court has already given its verdict. My opinion does not matter,” he said.
 
 
