GURUGRAM: Haryana Police shared a list of over 3,400   with the top cops of  ,   and Delhi during the Inter-State Crime Coordination Committee’s first meeting held in Gurugram on Monday.

 The police chiefs of the four states also decided to set up Inter-State Crime Information Secretariat in Gurugram to create common database for effective coordination and real-time information sharing.
 
 Apart from this, the police chiefs shortlisted 20 ‘most wanted’ criminals, primarily extortionists, who have been on the radar for a long time.
 
 “A majority of these criminals is in the most-wanted lists of the four states. They are notorious for cross-border crimes. So, we have decided to deal with them jointly, which would ensure better results,” IG  , head of Haryana STF, told TOI.
 
 Police sources said of the 3,400 proclaimed offenders, 1,400 were suspected to be hiding in UP, 900 in Delhi and over 1,100 were in Rajasthan. The Haryana Police shared a detailed list of these offenders and sought cooperation of the three neighbouring states to nab them.
 
 “We need to work closely with each other to deal with proclaimed offenders. We have shared our list with them and asked them to share their lists with us so that NCR can be made crime free,” Singh added.
 
 At the Monday meeting, the police officers from the four states worked out a detailed mechanism to effectively curb cross-border activities of organised gangs and prevent smuggling of weapons and narcotics.
 
 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar chaired the meeting. Haryana DGP Baljit Singh Sandhu, UP DGP OP Singh, Rajasthan DGP Prakash Galhotra and Delhi Commissioner of Police Amulya Patnaik, among others, were also present.
 
 It was decided that the Inter-State Crime Coordination Committee would meet once in every three months. The next meeting will be held in Noida, followed by Rajasthan and Delhi.
 
 Selected cops from the four states will man the proposed crime information secretariat. “All the participating states will appoint a senior level nodal officer for real-time information sharing,” said ADGP (law and order), Haryana, Muhammad Akil during a joint briefing after the meeting.
 
 Moreover, crime branch, STF officers and SHOs of bordering areas will hold regular meetings to check cross-border movement of criminals. Besides, WhatsApp groups will be created for instant tip-offs. “Telephone numbers of police officers at all levels would be shared for better communication and coordination,” said Akil.
 
 The ADGP further said Haryana had sought cooperation of all the states, especially Uttar Pradesh, to break the network of illegal arms manufacturers and suppliers. “It would be a big achievement for the police if we could collectively prevent manufacturing, transportation and procurement of illegal weapons. Haryana has also sought cooperation from Rajasthan in preventing illegal mining,” said Akil.
 
 Earlier, the chief minister stressed the need for better coordination to check crime and instill a sense of security in common people. “If criminals don’t accept boundaries, police too should not be tied with the state borders while acting against criminals. The police forces (from all the neighbouring states) should work as one unit to break the backbone of criminals,” he maintained.
 
 Khattar said the idea to create an inter-state crime coordination committee was conceptualized during an informal meeting with his UP counterpart Yogi Adityanath earlier this year. “Such kind of quarterly meetings would certainly pay rich dividends,” he said.
 
 
