NAGPUR: A goof-up by Nagpur University’s (NU) PhD cell and outdated online entries led to the cancellation of PhD entrance test II (PET-II) for 55 aspirants in engineering and science faculties.

 The   was cancelled moments before its scheduled start at 11.45am on February 10. The students, who were aghast on learning that they were placed under the wrong faculty, were assured that the exam will be re-conducted after correction.
 
 On February 18, the aspirants appeared for the PET-II that was later classified as ‘computer science and technology’ and ‘computer engineering/information technology’. The PhD cell didn’t clarify what caused the mix up in its notification dated February 14.
 
 Pro-vice chancellor  , who handles the cell, said the subject was missing from the list. “It was added and the exam was held,” he said.
 
 NU officials blamed  , the agency conducting PET, and students for the goof-up. They said the the students were at fault since they had filled the forms and it was their duty to ensure that proper faculty and subjects were selected.
 
 Denying the charge, an MKCL official said, “The list was provided by the PhD cell on the basis of which hall tickets were generated. There is no scope for errors in even manual filling since only 279 students were there from all faculties for PET II.”
 
 The claim holds water since the subject ‘computer engineering/information technology’ is missing from the PhD’s list uploaded on NU and MKCL’s websites.
 
 Only those clearing PET-I are qualified to appear for PET-II. The candidate details entered during PET-I online application are carry forwarded and the hall tickets for PET-II are processed. As per the 29-subject list provided by the PhD cell to MKCL, only the subject ‘computer science’ at serial No. 11 is available under science and technology.
 
 This means that while selecting the subject, the students of engineering faculty had no choice but to opt for computer science, which actually belonged to science faculty.
 
 In a series of reports, TOI has been highlighting glitches in the PhD direction and PET process since December. In its January 7 report, it highlighted how faculties were grouped as per the old Act, yet the university failed to make amends. On February 5, it was also reported that MKCL and Promarc were managing the PET data which could pose confusion.
 
 The nine faculties were clubbed under four faculties after implementation of the new universities Act in March last year. The 11 branches of engineering faculty and 13 subjects of science faculty were grouped under one common faculty of science and technology.
 
 
