As the viewers prepare themselves for a journey into the past through Nag Ashwin’s ambitious venture   — a biopic on legendary cine icon Savitri, — the filmmaker says, the hardest part while making this film, was its casting. 
“We spent a lot of time on this (casting) because we knew it was one area where we just cannot go wrong. Choosing our Savitri was the biggest challenge. For some reason or the other, we just couldn’t zero in on an actress. Either they didn’t look like her or didn’t feel like her. Then I saw   in a song in a Tamil film. There was something very honest about her. When I watched her, I knew that I finally found my Savitri,” the director shares.
 
 Nag Ashwin says that the simplicity with which Keerthy approached such a complex character, was extraordinary. “She proved her mettle beyond just the part she played. Keerthy literally lived and breathed Savitri, and this is one of her finest performances till date,” he says, proudly.
 
 Mahanati features a star-studded cast —   as Gemini Ganesan,   as Madhuravani and   as  . “Vijay, Dulquer and Samantha are all superstars in their own right and yet, they agreed to be a part of a film where they don’t play the lead role. That, for me as a director, is truly satisfying. Their commitment to the project was astounding. For instance, Dulquer sported a real moustache even though he had other commitments and films to do. But he gave it his best out of respect for the role he was playing in Mahanati,” Ashwin reveals.
 
 The director, who had previously helmed the 2015 hit film Yevade Subramanyam, says we could soon see a trend in Telugu cinema where superstars agree to play supporting roles. “This is the only way forward, because otherwise it gets boring. Apart from being superstars, they are also very talented actors. So, if they all come together for a film, it is truly wonderful,” the filmmaker expresses, adding, “Savitri is incomparable. I feel content with the fact that even if I or Keerthy fail, the aura of Savitri will take the audience through a wonderful journey.”
 
 
