PATNA: Police arrested over 100 persons, including 85 in Patna district, with huge consignments of   from different parts of the state since late Sunday night as part of their special drive against bootleggers and New Year party revellers.

 The arrests were made from Vaishali, East Champaran, Siwan, Munger, Bhojpur and Aurangabad districts besides Patna where police seized 311 litres of liquor and arrested 85 persons from Buddha Colony, Pirbahore, Kadamkuan, Kotwali, S K Puri, Shastri Nagar and other police station areas.
 
 Patna SSP Manu Maharaaj said maximum 13 persons were arrested from Pirbahore area while nine were held in Punpun, six in Naubatpur, five each in Agamkuan and  , four each from Digha, Kotwali and Kadamkuan police station areas, three each from Pataliputra, Parsa Bazar, S K Puri, Danapur, Bahadurpur and Kadirganj, two each from Buddha Colony, Jakkanpur, Alamganj and Chowk and one each from Bikram, Maner, Bypass, Malsalami, Rupaspur, Shastri Nagar, Kankerbagh, Gandhi Maidan and Rajiv Nagar police station areas. Police have also seized seven vehicles in different cases.
 
 In Vaishali, a truck laden with 585 liquor bottles and three cars were seized from Saraiya while liquor was also recovered from Mahnar. Vaishali SP Rakesh Kumar said Awadhesh Rai, Hriday Rai, Laloo Choudhary, the driver and khalasi of the truck and three labourers were arrested with Rs7 lakh. “The liquor was smuggled from Haryana,” he said.
 
 At least 12 persons were arrested with liquor in East Champaran. According to Dumaria police station SHO Abhinav Kumar Dubey, two cars were seized with 2,500 litres of liquor and four persons were arrested in two different cases at NH-28 checkpoint. “Police arrested Shatrudhan Rao and Kishore Rao with 392 bottles and Mukesh Kumar Singh and Surendra with 394 bottles. Both the vehicles were going to Motihari from Gopalganj.
 
 In Siwan, two persons were arrested with 35 bottles of IMFL under the Muffasil police station area.
 
 Police in Munger raided 22 locations and seized around 375 litres of liquor and arrested three persons. ASP Hari Shankar Kumar said, “Raj Bihari alias Raja Yadav was arrested with 40 liquor bottles at his residence under Kotwali police station while Bau Kumar was nabbed with 46 bottles from Railway Dhala. Vijay Tanti was arrested with 10 litre liquor at Ram Nagar. Police recovered 26 cartons of liquor from Dharmendra Mandal’s house under the Bariyarpur police station area. However, he managed to escape.” 
 
 At Ara in Bhojpur district, one person was arrested and 22 liquor bottles were seized from   while three were arrested in   under the Raniganj police station on Monday.
 
 Aurangabad police recovered 1400 pouches of country-made liquor from a car near Baluganj bus stand under the Dhibra police station area on Sunday night, Dhibra SHO Deep   said. “We chased the car but the driver parked it on the roadside and managed to escape. When police searched the vehicle, the country-made liquor was recovered.” 
 
 
