
 KOCHI: From developing apps that make the life easier for customers and experimenting with latest digital backbones like blockchain, two   banks – Federal   and   – are at the forefront of the digital innovation.
 
 In 2015, Federal Bank launched Fedbook Selfie, an app that allows a user to open an account within three minutes by clicking a selfie and also serves as an e-passbook.
 
 
 “We had a lakh downloads for Selfie during the initial year. We revamped it in January, 2018 and the latest version has 400 to 500 downloads daily,” said  , deputy vice president, digital centre of excellence, Federal Bank. The bank won the Skoch Smart Technology Award 2015, for the technological innovation.
 
 They have now integrated the technology for e-KYC which allows customers to walk into the bank and open an account instantly. “Nearly 85% of our new accounts are being opened through this route,”   said.
 
 Tab banking, another innovation, allows the bank to go to any firm and open multiple accounts for the employees there, using a biometric device connected to a tablet computer. “Earlier it was all paper-based work but, it is all automated now,” Jithesh said.
 
 Apart from the customer acquisition, Federal Bank is using digital technology in serving the existing customers through the mobile banking app. One can buy mutual funds or pay utility bills using the app. Altogether there are 50 services, based on the digital technology. Thrissur-headquartered South Indian Bank (SIB) is also fast adopting digital technology. FASTag is one such innovation. “Your car dashboard gets a sticker that contains an RFID tag and each time you pass through the toll, it automatically debits money from your account. You don’t have to wait in long queues,” said Sony A,   and head, digital banking with SIB.
 
 SIB had also introduced a mobile app ‘Digital e-lock’, which bagged the   Award-2017 at the 5th PAN-IIM World Management Awards 2017. “This year, we have received seven such awards,” Sony said.
 
 The bank is also investing in emerging technologies, Sony said. “We were the first bank, after ICICI, to do a live pilot on block chain. We implemented the platform, tied up with an exchange house in the Middle East and conducted the transactions on this platform,” he said.
 
 Facebook chatbot and contactless cards that enables the user to pay at shops by just tapping on the point-of-sale device, without keying in PIN are other notable innovation SIB has introduced.
 
