Mumbai: Procter & Gamble India has picked homegrown talent   as its new managing director, who will take charge from April 1 this year. Gopalan, who is currently leading the P&G business in Indonesia, will take over from  , who is set to retire from the company after 37 years of service at the end of the financial year.

 Until his retirement, Rajwani will help in onboarding Gopalan at the India business.
 
 With more than 18 years of experience working for P&G across business units and diverse geographies like India, the US and   countries, Gopalan, 42, is one of P&G’s youngest CEOs to lead a big and crucial business such as India, which has a turnover of over $1.5 billion. “I am excited to come back to my home country for this great role with the company. It’s like coming a full circle for me. P&G is bullish on India and it is a priority market for the parent company,” Gopalan said in a statement.
 
 According to Gopalan, the strategy for India will be to continue the progress it has made towards balanced growth. “We will raise the bar across everything we do to continue to accelerate sales growth, improve productivity, and empower our organisation to deliver sustained, strong performance,” said Gopalan, while adding, “Having worked in India for a significant part of my career, I am familiar with the needs of the Indian consumer and will strive to serve them well.”
 
 Under Rajwani, P&G India witnessed a portfolio transformation that led to a triple-digit profit in a couple of years. However, this strategy impacted the top line in the short term. The company said the strategy was aimed at long-term and sustainable growth. Gopalan, who led strong sales growth, share turnaround, value-creation and cash productivity at the helm of the Indonesia business, hopes to hit the ground running in India.
 
 P&G India HR head Sonali Roychowdhury said, “What is evident is that the India business is a priority for the company and Indian leadership roles are coveted and challenging to make our leaders want to come back to the country. Being on the inflection point of the India business, the company believes that with his expertise in India and different parts of the globe, Madhusudan is the right leader to accelerate growth that will be long-term and sustainable.”
 
 Gopalan started his career with P&G in India in 1999 as a new hire in the sales function from IIM-Calcutta and worked in various locations across the country, including being part of P&G’s first modern retail team in India. His first international assignment was to P&G’s headquarters in the US where he worked with the P&G-Walmart business team. He returned to India as the head of market, strategy & planning and oversaw the rapid growth of P&G’s business that grew 10 times in the space of a decade. 
 
 He then moved to Indonesia as head of sales. Gopalan later assumed the position of Asean commercial leader based in Bangkok, where he oversaw the commercial category teams across all P&G Asean countries and helped set up P&G’s e-commerce business teams in the region.
 
 
