NAGPUR: At a time when politicians are wary of forest laws, Shiv Sena member of Parliament from   has urged forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar to put notified buffer area of   Tiger Reserve (MTR) under administrative control of field director.

 The National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) on September 9, 2010, followed by the state government, had declared 1,268 sqkm (921 sqkm forest and 347 sqkm non-forest area) as a buffer zone of MTR, under Section 38 (v) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.
 
 As per NTCA guidelines, unified control of buffer with field directors is mandatory under the Tiger Conservation Plan (TCP) after amendments to Wildlife Protection Act (1972) on September 4, 2006. The TCP aims at protection of tiger reserves and providing site specific habitat inputs for a viable population of tigers, co-predators and prey animals.
 
 The then NTCA member-secretary BS Bonal on May 24, 2016 had even cautioned the state that it would be difficult to release funds under centrally-sponsored scheme ( ) for reserves not putting buffer zones under the control of respective field directors.
 
 In MTR, over 800 sqkm area of wildlife-rich east and west Melghat forest has not been brought under the administrative control of field director. Last week,   pointed out to Mungantiwar that “it is a matter of surprise that our forest management is not handling the issue on priority despite NTCA issuing a warning.”
 
 Adsul says states like Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have done well after bringing buffer zones under the control of field directors, but Maharashtra even after being one of the leading states in tiger conservation is not following the guidelines.
 
 The MP said under unified control, villages in buffer stand to benefit by way of funds through eco-development committees (EDCs). Besides, increasing man-animal conflict needs higher attention and this can be achieved when management of the buffer area is kept under unified control.
 
 Adsul said buffer areas sans management of field director would mean lack of scientific monitoring of tigers and no patrolling protocols like MSTrIPES (monitoring system for tigers – intensive protection and ecological status). “In the past, several tiger poaching cases have been recorded in the territorial areas around the tiger reserve and hence it is high time the area of notified buffer be brought under the control of field director,” Adsul told Mungantiwar.
 
 Interestingly, of the six tiger reserves in the state only two — Pench and Tadoba — have been brought under the administrative control of field directors, violating the NTCA guidelines.
 
 Sources said the unified control is not being given under field director as territorial officials fear they will be left with small forest areas curbing their powers and supremacy.
 
 
