Looks like   is one of the favourite choices of filmmakers when it comes to playing free-spirited, bold characters. The actress, who had wowed audience and critics alike with her act in Taramani and Aval recently, is all set to start shooting for  , in the next few days, and its director   tells us that she plays a girl with hippie-like nature in it. 

 The debutant filmmaker says, “Kaa... is a crime thriller that stresses on the fact that life, irrespective of whose it is, is important. Andrea plays a wildlife photographer, someone who is quite wild and very hippy. She was my first and final option to play the lead because her face and attitude matched the character’s — she is friendly, but has this ‘don’t mess with me’ attitude. She didn’t have to do any homework; I’d asked her to only attain a trimmed physique. ”
 He adds, “I’d mailed the synopsis of the script to Andrea, and she wrote back, asking for more details. I later met her for a narration and she agreed to do the film. She neither asked any questions, nor suggested changes in the script. Salim Ghouse is playing a character that’s starkly opposite to Andrea’s. I think he was impressed when I said there won’t be any songs in the film.”
 
 No songs? “Yes, no songs!” says the director with a laugh, “It was composer Amrish’s idea. After he heard the narration, he told me that the script is so packed that it has no scope for song insertion. He told me in a pretty serious tone to not include any songs even if he himself insisted at a later stage. Wherever required, there will be BGM, and the rest of the film will ride heavily on sound effects.   will be giving a soundscape that complements the story — he will be using jungle sounds to enhance the narration.”
 
 The film, Nanjil says, is based on incidents that appeared in the media. “The film is set in the jungles and narrates what happens in a single day. So, there won’t be any costume changes for the entire cast. We will be filming in the forests of Munnar, Western Ghats, Jharkhand and Andaman and Nicobar,” he signs off. 
 
 
