For  ,  ,  ,   Singh and  , today is a big day. The five finalists will be competing for the title at the music reality show  , and they tell us that while they are nervous about the results, they can’t wait to get on the stage and perform to their heart’s content.
Srinidhi says. “I’m not thinking about winning or losing the title. I’m only focusing on singing to the best of my abilities. I will just close my eyes and give my best, and I hope the judges, jury and audience appreciate it.” Ramani Ammal, a 62-year-old woman who is fondly referred to as Rockstar Ramani Ammal, says, “There’s no fear because I’ve left everything in the hands of God. He knows what I deserve and I’m sure he’s written a prize in name.”
 
 After entering the show in the wild card round, Sanjay is excited that he’s made it to the finale. “I’m a wild card entrant, and for me, it’s such a huge opportunity. The whole point of participating in the show was to hone my singing skill and I can already see the improvement,” he says, his voice brimming with confidence.
 
 Ask Punjabi lad Jaskaran what prompted him to participate in a Tamil music reality show, and he says, “I’m a huge fan of south Indian films, and I love Tamil songs. When I saw an ad for the audition, I thought I should give it a try. I sent the makers my videos, and they called me for the audition. I still can’t believe that I made it so far. I’m excited about singing live at the finale.”
 
 The five finalists admit that the show has taught them several things. “I’ve learnt a lot in this journey — right from the person who opens the studio gate to the judges, and even the juniors with whom I sing, they all have qualities that can be imbibed. The juniors have so much energy, and judges and jury members are so warm and cordial, helping us improve. I think it’s important to not give up,” says Varsha. Srinidhi adds, “While judges give us comments on air, they also give us suggestions for the next round during the break. They tell us what mistakes have to be corrected and where we can improve.”
 
 Jaskaran admits that his Tamil diction has vastly improved in the last few months. “In the first few episodes, I was worried about remembering the lyrics and getting the pronunciation right. But thanks to the appreciation that’s come my way — both from judges and people — my confidence has increased,” says ‘Aalapporan’ Jaskaran.
 
 Though they have become friends in the months that they’ve spent together, the participants say that there’s healthy competition among them. Srinidhi says, “They are all my friends, but when it comes to competition, we give our best because it’s a huge platform and a once-in-a-lifetime chance.” Ramani Ammal adds, “All the co-contestants call me ‘paati’, and seek my blessings before they perform.” Sanjay chips in, “It’s like auditioning in front of so many musicians at one go. So, we have to put our best foot forward.” Varsha sums up, “This will be a stepping stone for us in the field of music. So, yes, we will give our best here.”
 
 
