KOLKATA: While the city was celebrating   on Sunday, for the transgender community in the state it was a day of double celebrations - ushering in the Bengali New Year and celebrating the third anniversary of the   verdict of recognizing them as the third gender. Through a cultural extravaganza that included dance, drama, poetry and a ramp show among others, the community members spent the day in style. 

 "The idea is to enhance transgender visibility and acceptance by the society. Though there has been an improvement on the awareness front, we still need to do a lot on this," said Ranjita Sinha of Association of Transgender/Hijra of Bengal (ATHB).
 
 Tista Das, a transwoman who has already created a niche for herself, felt that despite their talent, those belonging to the community face discrimination. Tista sashayed down the ramp along with  , also a trans model, and a group of beginners. "We need more such platforms where we can showcase our talents so that we are recognized and our talents accepted," said Tista.
 
 Keaaviiraag Poddar, a transman, had been rehearsing for the event for over a week now. Poddar, an entrepreneur with a double Masters degree to his credit, walked the ramp and also hosted the programme. "I realized that I could not live a dual life and hence decided to come out of the closet. This is my first public appearance at a community programme," said Poddar.
 
 Apart from the   members, many from the mainstream took part in the celebrations in order to show their solidarity. For example, curator and fashion designer   not only offered grooming sessions but also lent hand crafted jwellery to the participants of the ramp show.
 
 "During the grooming session I found that some of them were very good. If any of them wants to pursue a career in modelling in future, I will help them in whatever way I can," said Sanyal.
 
 The celebrations began with the community members showing solidarity in the demand for justice for the eight-year-old girl gang-raped and murdered in Kathua. The community members also had a tussle with the organisers of another event who were not vacating the Ranu Chhaya Manch, the venue, on time. The matter was resolved later with police intervention.
 
 
