CHANDIGARH: UT shooter Anjum  , who won the silver medal at the recently-concluded Commonwealth Games (CWG), was felicitated by DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh on Wednesday. The 24-year-old markswoman is an alumnus and was honoured by the college faculty and coach Dr Amanendra Mann.

 Anjum, after completing her graduation in psychology from the DAV went on to pursue MA in sports psychology from the same institution.
 
 
 
  
 
 The shooter has had a dream run in 2018, clinching silver at the ISSF Shooting World Cup in Mexico, and has set her eyes on securing the Olympics quota.
 
 Talking about her record (she shot 589) at the qualifying round at the CWG, she said, “I wanted to make a record rather than win a medal. I am happy that I shattered the qualification record before the sport was dropped from the Games. Medals do not define shooters, but records do.”
 
 As a matter of fact, her record has been etched in the history of Commonwealth Games as the sport has been dropped for subsequent editions of the game.
 
 “When I played the World Cup in Mexico, there was little time for preparation. But my performance turned out to be impressive. Hence, I was really motivated for the Commonwealth Games,” she said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Moudgil said the decision of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) to withdraw from the World Cup in the   has come as a blessing in disguise. “It gets very tiring and this move will give us good rest. Instead, we will have a training camp in Germany in the run up to World Championships and Asiad,” said Moudgil.
 
 Talking about the glitch that occurred during her first rifle event at the CWG, Moudgil admitted there was pressure but also believed that it was not her fault. “Later, I was motivated and focused,” she said.
 
 And needless to say she is passionate about shooting. “I like shooting because it is an individual sport and you cannot blame anyone if you lose. You are not answerable to anyone,” she said. After shooters winning numerous laurels, the support from the government has started pouring in, which was not the case earlier and was a positive trend, she added.
 
 
