Bengaluru: Grappled with poor infrastructure,   in the city’s tech corridor is in a deplorable state. Large cracks on walls are posing a threat to passengers at the station which lacks facilities like drinking water, toilets and proper seating arrangements.

 Every day, more than 5,000 passengers travel in suburban trains along the Salem section (Hebbal-Banaswadi-Hosur) and a majority of them, particularly those working in nearby tech parks like RMZ Ecospace, Prestige Tech Park and RMZ Ecoworld, alight at   railway station.
 
 “This is a village-like station in the city’s IT corridor. There is hardly any staff. Even the ticket counter opens only 10 minutes before arrival of a train,” says  , a regular passenger. 
 
 It is also unsafe for women passengers, particularly at night, because of poor lighting and bad condition of approach roads to the station. The commuters have to bear the brunt of mosquito and stray dog menace too.
 
 Passengers want the Palike to repair approach roads like Panathur and   and start feeder buses connecting the station.
 
 Krishnamurthy, a techie, says there have been several instances of vehicle thefts in the past few months given the lack of security guards. “Some locals also demand money for parking, which is higher than the railway ticket,” he maintains.
 
 The woes of passengers get worse during rainy season because of inadequate roofing and seating arrangements. Passengers also face difficulty while boarding and alighting from the station due to the low-level platform. One has to literally jump from the train to alight at the station. “Most suburban services on this line get delayed since it’s single track between Byappanahalli and  . Most days, trains are made to wait for crossing over the intermediate stations,” said Aravind Raj, another passenger.
 
 A South Western Railway (SWR) official said: “Bellandur Road is a halt station. It comes under the low category of the stations based on ticket revenue, so amenities available here less compared to others. The average daily ticket sale is 400, which translates to about Rs 8,000 a day. Facilities will be improved once there is high patronage.”
 
 The 48km doubling project between Byappanahalli and Hosur has been sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs 376 crore in the Union budget which would help SWR operate additional services and reduce delay, officials said.
 
 
