Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of December 2017. 

  and   top the Times Celebex powered by Zoom list for the month of December 2017. 
 
 Salman Khan rocked the box office with 'Tiger Zinda Hai' the sequel to his 2012 hit 'Ek Tha Tiger'. ‘Bhai’ was back in his elements as RAW agent Tiger. 
 
 
 
  He slipped into prep mode for his next with Anushka Sharma and moved into his new home.
 
 The actor’s love life, his turn in 'Fukrey Returns' and his international films kept him in the news. 
 
  The quirky promos and songs of his film 'Kaalakaandi' kept him in the headlines. 
 
  His films down South, his forthcoming Hindi films and his turn in a web series made news. 
 
  The promos of 'Aiyaary', featuring him as a decorated officer from the Army, generated buzz. 
 
  He reprised his role as Choocha in 'Fukrey Returns' which was widely appreciated. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Katrina Kaif looked easy on the eyes reprising her role of Pakistani secret agent Zoya in 'Tiger Zinda Hai'. Her action scenes were applauded.
 
 
 
 
 The pictures of her fairy-tale wedding with cricketer   in Italy went viral on social media.
 
  The announcement of her forthcoming film 'Arjun Patiala' with Diljit Dosanjh kept her in the news. 
 
  Her blossoming romance with Ali Fazal and her turn as Bholi Punjaban in 'Fukrey Returns' made news. 
 
  The promos and songs of 'Aiyaary', featuring Sidharth Malhotra and her were lapped up. 
 
  She started shooting for the sequel to her comic entertainer 'Happy Bhag Jaayegi' in Punjab. 
 
  Her son Taimur Ali Khan turned one, and her pictures with him grabbed eyeballs on social media. 
 
 
 Shah Rukh Khan: He continued to shoot his next, filmmaker Aanand L Rai’s 'Zero' in which he plays a dwarf. 
 Akshay Kumar: The first promo of 'Padman' was released which featured him with a sanitary napkin. 
 Varun Dhawan: He finally moved into his new apartment, designed by his mother Lali Dhawan. 
 Amitabh Bachchan: He was in the news for his forthcoming films and endorsements. 
 Aamir Khan: There was strong buzz about his next, a three-film series on the epic, 'Mahabharat'. 
 Sidharth Malhotra: The promos of his spy thriller 'Aiyaary' got the spotlight back on him after 'Ittefaq'. 
 Varun Sharma: He returned to his pet character Choocha with the entertaining 'Fukrey Returns'. 
 Pulkit Samrat: He was leading the pack of fukras in 'Fukrey Returns' as Hunney, which was appreciated. 
 Ali Fazal: He made news with his international films, his blossoming love life and his turn in 'Fukrey Returns'. 
 
 
 Anushka Sharma: She finally had a fairy-tale wedding with Virat Kohli in Italy . 
 Alia Bhatt: She slipped into prep mode for 'Brahmastra' and 'Gully Boy'. 
 Priyanka Chopra: She made news with her international projects and regional home productions. 
 Deepika Padukone: Her period film with Sanjay Leela Bhansali kept the spotlight on her. 
 Sonakshi Sinha: Her tour with Salman Khan and team, and her next projects made headlines. 
 Jacqueline Fernandez: Projects like 'Race 3' and her endorsements kept her in the news. 
 Sonam Kapoor: The buzz around her impending wedding with beau Anand Ahuja became strong. 
 Parineeti Chopra: On-location pictures of her next with Arjun Kapoor went viral online. 
 Shraddha Kapoor: While she shot 'Saaho', news about the Saina Nehwal biopic made the rounds. 
 
