CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu all-rounder   may not have set the stage on fire at the   for  , but he certainly held his ground — putting in consistent performances — in an otherwise disappointing season for the bottom-placed franchise. In 13 matches for Delhi, he scored 212 runs at an impressive average of 53 and a strike-rate of 143.24, and played the support cast to the dazzling Rishabh Pant in the process. With the ball, he only had one wicket to his name with best figures of 1 for 22.

 
 
 The 27-year-old, in a chat with TOI, admitted that his start to the season wasn’t the smoothest. “I was not getting runs under my belt in the first 3-4 matches and that was disappointing. After the first few games, I chose to concentrate more on my preparation. I wanted to create an impact whenever I went in to bat — irrespective of the number of balls I faced,” he said. The turning point, according to Vijay Shankar, arrived in the Pune game against Chennai Super Kings. Vijay Shankar hit a 31-ball 54 and stitched an 88-run stand with Pant. “The innings versus CSK gave me tremendous self-confidence. Such knocks are needed for every cricketer in order to find his footing in the team,” Vijay Shankar said.
 
 Vijay Shankar wants to remember IPL-11 as a season that brought important changes to his game. “The season has been a turning point for me. I have batted at various positions in this IPL, and it has helped me to adapt to different situations. I can say that my ability to read the game has become better as well,” he said. For Vijay, working with Australian legend Ricky Ponting — the coach of Daredevils — was a memorable one. “Right after my second game — when I failed to contribute much with the bat — I went up to Ricky and told him how frustrated I was with that. I was harsh on myself for having not done well. But, his message was simple as he stressed on the importance of backing my technique at all times and preparing to the best of my ability,” he said.
 
 Vijay Shankar is clear that no matter how well he does in future, the memory of his struggles in his maiden international innings (at the   final in Sri Lanka) will be hard to shake off. Chasing Bangladesh’s target of 167, Vijay Shankar scored a 19-ball 17 before Dinesh Karthik came to the party and rescued India with a last-ball six. “It is unfortunate that my maiden international innings with the bat ended up like that. Whatever highs I achieve in future, I will look at that particular innings (as a reference point) to stay grounded. I was very hurt for the first few days after the final but then I chose to move on as it’s a part and parcel of the game,” he said.
 
 
