CHANDIGARH: What would happen to the structure of the governing bodies if   is given the the status of the ‘Institution of Eminence’? The question has intrigued many stakeholders of the university ever since the proposal for getting the status was submitted to the   (MHRD). It is certain that the syndicate and senate would continue to be the decision-making bodies of the university even if granted the status.

 “The university plans to set up a project management board. As per the proposal of the Institution of Eminence, the university will be working on project basis. The board will be responsible to carry out day to day management of certain projects. There will be a research advisory committee which will assist the project management board,” said director of internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) Prof M Rajivlochan. 
 
 The research advisory committee will have on board the alumni of the university, experts from industry and other research institutions along with faculty members from the university. The project management board will work under the supervision of the project advisory board, which will consist of persons of high academic and research standing from the   and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) institutions associated with the university. 
 
 After the advisory boards evaluates and reviews everything, it will report to the syndicate and the senate of the university, the governing bodies of the varsity, which are also the final decision-makers of the varsity. 
 
 Moreover, the university plans to exchange its wide alumni base spread across the world to draw expertise and become part of the advisory boards, which will supervise the significant projects in the university. Some departments like pharmacy and management already have structures to involve alumni in a formal advisory capacity. All other departments have also been asked to constitute advisory committees, with several alumni as members to ensure their active participation in academics, placements and other activities.
 
 The university has already started to create advisory committees in all departments.   university instructions (DUI) Prof   recently issued a circular asking all the chairpersons and directors to formulate advisory committees in their respective departments. 
 
 
