Mumbai: In a move that would hasten recognition of bad loans, the Reserve Bank of India ( ) on Monday withdrew all existing frameworks for addressing stressed assets and came out with new norms that require lenders to classify a loan as a non-performing asset ( ) immediately upon restructuring. For loans that are larger than Rs 2,000 crore, the resolution plan needs to be completed within 180 days. Under the new norms, if a resolution plan is not implemented within 180 days, the account must be referred to the  .

 The new norms will bring immense pressure on stressed borrowers. If they fail to pay on time, they will be classified defaulters as against the past when they were merely classified as ‘stressed’ and given more time to repay. They will also need to come out with a plan to get back on track, failing which they stand to lose their business in the  .
 
 The series of restructuring schemes that were introduced over the last decade have been criticised as merely allowing lenders to ‘kick the can further’. Many analysts saw these as ‘evergreening’ of loans where banks gave borrowers more money to prevent them from defaulting.
 
 The withdrawn schemes include — framework for revitalising distressed assets, corporate debt restructuring scheme ( ), flexible structuring of long-term project loans (also known as 5/25 scheme), strategic debt restructuring scheme (SDR), change in ownership outside  , and scheme for sustainable structuring of stressed assets (S4A). The Joint Lenders’ Forum ( ), as an institutional mechanism for resolution of stressed accounts, also stands discontinued. “All accounts, including such accounts where any of the schemes have been invoked but not yet implemented, shall be governed by the revised framework,” the RBI said.
 
 For accounts where lenders have an exposure of below Rs 2,000 crore and, at or above Rs 100 crore, the RBI intends to announce, over a two-year period, reference dates for implementing the resolution professional to ensure calibrated, time-bound resolution of all such accounts in default.
 
 
