CHANDIGARH: The   government is expected to get around Rs 21,000 crore cash credit limit (CCL) from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday to purchase 130 lakh tonnes of wheat in the ongoing rabi marketing season.

 The two-month procurement season started on April 1 and the Central government has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of wheat at Rs 1,735 per quintal. The MSP has been hiked by Rs 110 from last year’s Rs 1,625 per quintal.
 
  
  
 
 “We sent the required papers to the RBI on April 2. They normally take 3-4 days for the process. We should get the CCL tomorrow (Thursday),” confirmed  , special principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister, Captain Amarinder Singh.
 
 Before applying for the new CCL, the states are required to close the previous CCLs — Punjab did that on March 28. During the process, it found that RBI has to pay Rs 65 crore to the Punjab government for the previous procurement season.
 
 The Amarinder government has notified 1,835 mandis across Punjab for smooth procurement of wheat by six agencies.
 
 Flow of wheat to mandis (grain markets) starts mainly after Baisakhi. As per the policy, it is mandatory for the procurement agency to lift wheat from mandis to the storage points within 72 hours of purchase. Also, the farmers should get their payments within 72 hours of the sale of wheat to the procurement agencies.
 
 As truck operators continue their protest against the Punjab decision to reduce foodgrain transportation rates and boycott tendering process, the state government has allowed arhtiyas (commission agents) to transport wheat where it fails to receive any bids.
 
 Anindita Mitra, director of the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department said they have written to the Mandi Board about the decision taken on Tuesday and the board will issue a notification.
 
 “We have put a cap that we will not pay transporters more than 120% above the basic rate of transportation. But they are adamant that they have been charging 300-350%,” Mitra said.
 
 Despite the boycott, tenders for wheat transportation in most districts — 340 of a total of 413 clusters — were finalized by the state on Wednesday. Districts which received bids for all clusters included Amritsar, Barnala, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Muktsar, Mohali, Mansa, Pathankot, Ropar and Nawanshahr.
 
 Sangrur has highest number of 20 clusters which did not receive any bid for transportation till Wednesday, followed by 16 clusters in  , eight in Patiala, seven each in Ludhiana and Moga, six in Jalandhar, four in Fatehgarh Sahib, two each in   and Bathinda and one in Faridkot.
 
 
 
