MANGALURU: The department of pre-university education ( ) is all set to roll out NCERT science books in  . As per officials, the first and second year PU books will be available in a few days for students.

 The main aim of the books is to help students from the Kannada-medium and from rural areas, to make their learning easy as well as to encourage them to take  . 
 
 “Students from a Kannada -medium background, as well as those from rural areas, are hesitant to take up science, as all the books were in English. However, NCERT books which have been translated into Kannada, will now aid them in opting for science,” said C  ,  , DPUE, while speaking to TOI. She added that this will also help them score well in CET. The translated books include: Physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology.
 
 She added that the translation work of NCERT books into Kannada commenced a few years ago, but the project did not work out well at the time. However, it again commenced six months back, and has been completed now. All the science books are being printed and will hit the stands soon. “Though NCERT Kannada books are available for commerce and arts streams, there was a need for it in the science stream as well, which has been fulfilled now.”
 
 Asked about the quality of translation, Shikha pointed out that experts who have gone through the books are satisfied with the work. The work was overseen by subject experts and senior faculty members, she said.
 
 Stressing on why there is a need for science books in Kannada, a senior faculty member, who wishes to remain anonymous, pointed out that several colleges in the state have closed down their Kannada-medium sections in the PU science course.
 
 “I come from a Kannada-medium school and was hesitant take up science. However, this initiative will help me to take up the science discipline,” said a class 10 student, who is awaiting his SSLC examination results.
 
 All the Kannada science books will be made available in the respective campuses.
 
 
