LUDHIANA: Unlike Bharat Bandh, which was held on April 2, when the agitators protested against the Supreme Court decision on the dilution of the SC/ST Act provision and forcibly shut down factories and shops in the city, Tuesday was better. At least, the factories remained opened on Tuesday.

 Taking lessons from the past, some businessmen changed the working hours of the factories and started the shift early on Tuesday to avoid any chance of protestors blocking the roads. On April 2, the   were unable to reach the factories because the agitators blocked the roads.
 
 However, the city businessmen are of the view that it’s high time, both the state and the central government deal the situation with an iron hand. The business fraternity believes that the administration should ensure that the factories, which provide employment to people, should not be closed at any cost.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of   (CICU), said, “Unlike the previous time, we had unanimously decided to keep our factories open under any circumstances and report any forcible shutdown to the cops. During the Bharat Bandh on April 2, the entire trade and industry suffered losses worth crores. Every time, there is a shutdown of the industry, it only affects the business community but impacts the lives of hundreds of workers and their families,” Ahuja said.
 
 According to Ahuja, the state and the Centre should take action against organisations, which call for bandh. “It should be ensured that whether it’s a shop, factory or a commercial establishment, no forcible shutdown should be allowed and proper security arrangements should be made in the industrial and commercial areas during the bandh,” he said.
 
 Narinder Bhamra, president of  , said the situation was ‘normal on Tuesday’. “We operated our factories without any problem on Tuesday. But it wouldn’t be wrong to mention that there was panic among the people here after we heard the news of violence in other cities. The protestors should show some sympathy towards the workers, who work hard to earn their livelihood,” Bhamra said. He also added, “The administration and police should support the factory owners and shopkeepers so that they can keep their establishments operational under such circumstances.”
 
 According to Atul Saggar, general secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, “A bandh is no way for any individual or organisation to demand their rights or fight against any injustice. Why cannot they protest peacefully without forcing their decisions on others? It’s about time that the government frames some strict law to counter such calls of frequent bandhs.”
 
 
