NEW DELHI: Vinod Kumar was having dinner at home last month when he felt a burning sensation in his stomach and nausea. The 55-year-old went to the washroom and vomited, which made him feel better. 

 It was only after two days, on Christmas, that he and his family realised that the uneasiness he had felt earlier was the result of an acute heart attack. Kumar collapsed in his office suddenly two days after the attack. He was then taken to Apollo hospital.
 
 Ultrasound of the heart revealed a thick fluid surrounding the organ and compressing it. This necessitated emergency surgery. When cardiac surgeons opened the wall around the heart to remove the fluid, they saw lots of blood clots surrounding the heart suggesting Kumar had suffered from a heart rupture which is a rare and fatal complication of heart attack.
 
 A heart attack happens if the flow of oxygen-rich blood to a section of heart muscle suddenly gets blocked and the heart can’t get oxygen. 
 
 Dr Mukesh Goel, senior cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon at Apollo hospital, said that in rare cases, rupture of the heart occurs following an acute attack, the cause of which is well-known. 
 
 “Normally, patients who have heart rupture do not survive. Kumar was lucky,” Dr Goel said.
 
 The fact the Kumar was rushed to a well-equipped hospital quickly after the collapse also helped. “Immediately after he was brought in, ultrasound of the heart was done. It showed collection of thick fluid. I rushed to the hospital on being informed about this for emergency surgery,” Dr Goel said. It took him and other doctors who were part of the operation nearly six hours to take out the blood collected around Kumar’s heart wall due to the rupture and then to suture the hole in it. 
 
 The doctors said the rupture had left a nearly1cm long hole in the heart which had to be sutured. According to doctors, Kumar’s case should serve as a reminder to people who are predisposed to heart attack to never ignore symptoms such as chest pain, sudden sweating or uneasiness.
 
 
