NEW DELHI: Former India batsman and skipper   credited   for sticking to his strength against South Africa during the first innings of the second Test at Centurion. According to Gavaskar, the surface used for the second Test possesses similar traits to the type of pitches used in India, and Ashwin used his stock ball to make the most of it.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 "To say that it is like a good Indian pitch would not be an overstatement. India, of course were prepared for a grassy surface as they believe that it gives their bowlers a better chance of restricting the South African batsmen," Gavaskar wrote in his column for TOI. "Ashwin was terrific and once he focuses on his stock ball and brings the variety deliveries as a surprise weapon, he is a handful. Ishant Sharma gave him good support.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 "They [India] may be a touch disappointed that they were not able to get the Proteas out under 300, but still 335 looks much better than what it looked at tea time on Day One. The pitch is still a beauty to bat on, so India must cash in on it. At Newlands, there was so much seam movement and so much swing for the bowlers, there was always a ball around the corner which had the batsman’s name on it."
 
 Among the various turning points of the match was the terrific run out of Hashim Amla by Hardik Pandya. Amla and South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis seemed to be attaining firm grip over the game with a useful partnership until the Indian allrounder came up with a magnificent piece of fielding off his own bowling where he collected the ball, turned over in a split second and hit bull's eye.
 
 “The real turning point was Hardik Pandya’s run out of Amla. The partnership between Amla and skipper Du Plessis was assuming alarming proportions when the energetic Pandya sensed his chance and darted across the pitch and swivelled and scored a direct hit at the bowlers' end to send back Amla. It was just the kind of inspirational work that India needed to get back in the game," Gavaskar wrote.
 
 Of course, even after dismissing South Africa, India were only getting started. It was then up to their batsmen to put behind the disappointment of Cape Town and come up with a strong performance. Unfortunately for India, when stumps were taken they were 183/5, trailing South Africa by 152 runs, with only Virat Kohli showing steely resolve to remain unbeaten on 85.
 
 "Kohli’s determination to ensure India come back in the series was seen by the manner in which he began his innings," Gavaskar wrote. "There was none of the early tentativeness as at Newlands and the way he moved into position for attacking and defensive shots was a treat to watch. With pitch helping turn, India will be hoping to go past the South African total and build a lead and put pressure on the home team. Already, there are rumblings within the Proteas about the kind of pitch that has been provided for this Test.
 
 "However, this surface is tailor made for India. Despite the loss of five wickets, one hopes the skipper along with Pandya can help India take control of the game."
 
