PUNE: Affordable housing in Maharashtra will get a major boost on Sunday, when Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India ( ) Maharashtra will ink a deal with the state government. 

 The memorandum of understanding (MoU), which will be signed on the opening day of the three-day investment summit ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’, will see Rs1 lakh crore being pumped into the affordable housing segment in the state, building 5 lakh units over the next five years. Pune will get 3 lakh low-cost housing units. 
 
 An affordable housing unit measures 646 sqft, and going by this measurement, the state requires 18 lakh tenements. The MoU will help speed up the sanctions for affordable housing projects, said state Credai president Shantilal Kataria. 
 
 Apart from Pune, Navi Mumbai, Nashik, Thane, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Solapur and Aurangabad will also a see a boost in this segment, Kataria said on Friday. “About 50 Credai members across the state — barring Mumbai — have assured that the 5 lakh affordable housing units will be ready by December 2022,” Kataria said. 
 
 “The MoU is an important step towards concretizing the ‘Housing for All by 2022’ project, paving the way for mass affordable housing in the state,” Kataria said. 
 
  has pledged 3 lakh affordable homes for the region. Shrikant Paranjape, president of Pune Credai Metro, said: “Considering the requirement in Pune, developers were more keen to venture into the affordable housing segment. We are estimating a Rs50,000 crore investment in the coming five years for such affordable housing projects.”
 
 Credai Maharashtra will also set up an affordable housing guidance forum, which will play the role of a task force to implement the programme. ‘The task force will have members from various Credai teams — Satara Credai member Majid Kachi, Akola Credai member Pankaj Kothari and Pune Credai member Dilip Mittal,” Kataria said, adding that Credai national president-elect Satish Magar too will closely monitor the project.
 
 Credai has also proposed a dedicated cell for affordable housing, which will closely track projects and update the government on their status. The cell will also undertake awareness programmes on affordable housing, sign an MoU with State Bank of India to provide financial assistance to home buyers as well as developers, provide legal assistance to ensure the projects are RERA-registered and solve any hurdles. 
 
 Identifying the land where the standard parameters will be set up and a statement of purpose for affordable housing projects are part of the proposal, while a timeline will be set for each project so as to meet the deadline, said Credai members. 
 
 Training on construction costing, research and development in construction material technology, a helpline and ratings are all part of the proposal, added developers.
 
 Kataria said they are hoping that the government will set up a joint committee comprising dedicated officers from the housing department and experts in affordable housing to get these projects speedy clearances.
 
 
