LUCKNOW: The low turnout of voters in   and   on Sunday may well write a new political script in the state.

 Despite the extensive campaigning, political manoeuvring, and striking of an alliance between unlikely partners, voters were disinclined to come out and vote.
 
 In Gorakhpur, 47.5% voters cast their vote against 55% in the last parliamentary elections, witnessing an 8% dip in polling rate.
 
 The drop in polling percentage in Phulpur was higher with just 38% votes being cast in comparison to 55% in the 2014 polls.
 
 The low turnout will cause wrinkles on the foreheads of leaders and strategists of all political parties as the lack of enthusiasm among voters now can make things difficult if it stretches till the general elections next year.
 
 Analysis of the polling percentage shows that voters in rural areas were keen to exercise their franchise while urban voters stayed away from polling stations.
 
 In Phulpur, the urban assembly constituency of City North witnessed a low of 21.65% voting, while the three rural constituencies of Phulpur, Soraon and   recorded 46.32%, 45%, 43% polling, respectively. The other urban constituency of City West recorded 31% polling.
 
 Similarly in Gorakhpur, the polling percentage was just 37.76% in Gorakhpur urban, but it was higher in rural segments, being 49.43% in  , 52.24% in Pipraich, 50% in Sahjanwa and 47.74% in Gorakhpur rural.
 
 Initially, the bypoll was expected to be a triangular contest but by the end of the campaign the fight was reduced between BJP and SPBSP alliance.
 
 Political observers say Congress committed a blunder by fielding a Muslim candidate in Gorakhpur while in OBC-dominated Phulpur it fielded a Brahmin.
 
 Chief minister   had been leading BJP campaign and made many appeals to voters to cast their votes.
 
 The decline in voting percentage will narrow the victory margin of BJP this time and if SP-BSP alliance is able to spring a surprise, then the ruling party will have to redraw its strategy for the 2019 general elections.
 
 On the other hand, if the BJP wins handsomely, the dry run for the BSP-SP alliance may not flourish in itself for the 2019 elections.
 
 
