 is in no hurry. She likes to take her time while making key decisions, be it professional or personal. It’s evident from the fact that in a career spanning 10 years, she has done just three fiction shows. Currently popular as ‘Gori Mem’ on ' ', Saumya takes us by surprise when she reveals that it took her seven months to give her nod to the show.

 She says, “Nothing inspiring was coming my way. I wanted to take up a seasonal or non-fiction show because being committed to a daily soap is nothing short of a marriage. It’s a huge decision, which is why I developed cold feet. However, 'Bhabiji...' seemed to be the perfect choice, as I am not cut out for a mythological show, a typical saas-bahu saga or a slapstick comedy. Also, I was busy hosting non-fiction shows, which left me with ample time to pursue other interests.”
  
 For an actress who is constantly seeking quality work, doesn’t playing the same character for three years get monotonous? “The best part is that I get to play a different character every second week. I have played a politician and a cop in the past on the show. Having said that, the day I lose inspiration, I’ll throw in the towel,” she replies, adding, “You see, the struggle isn’t to get work, it is to get good work. A thinking actor is always struggling for impressive scripts, especially on TV where there is so little quality work. I hope to reach a position in my career where I can pick the best of roles.”
 
 Considering the fact that 'Bhabiji...' is about two neighbours hitting on each other’s wives — a concept that could have easily bordered on crudity and vulgarity — was she apprehensive about taking the risk? The actress admits, “I was really scared, but fortunately, everything turned out fine. I won’t take any credit for it, though. The show is blessed with a great team.”
 
 The show was in news after her co-actor   was replaced overnight. So much so, people had even raised doubts over the fate of 'Bhabiji...' Saumya says, “I would be the wrong person to answer that, as I don’t understand the dynamics of television viewing. The shows I haven’t liked have fared well and actors, whose work I have appreciated, have not won awards. However, I did fear that the show will take a hit because the audience associates a face with a character. Moreover, it’s difficult to replace an actor, especially in comedy, as the genre needs performers. What saved 'Bhabiji'... is that no one actor is big on the show.”
 
 About her equation with Shilpa, Saumya elaborates, “I had a strictly professional relationship with her. All I know is that she fit the role perfectly. People can see how she is in real life on 'Bigg Boss'. I watched an episode of the show, but couldn’t follow it further.”
 
 Ask Saumya if she would like to participate in the reality show and pat comes the reply, “I would be a disaster; I will be shot dead by the makers as I won’t give them any controversial content. I can’t fight.”
 
 On the personal front, Saumya tied the knot with businessman   in December 2016 in a hush-hush ceremony. Though she refused to talk about the wedding then, she finally opens up to us. “I am ferociously protective about my personal life. When something is precious and close to your heart, you wouldn’t want it to come in the limelight for people to judge. In fact, I declined to be a part of ' ' for the same reason,” she says, adding, “I keep telling my husband that I was snatched in the cradle as he is quite older to me (laughs). I have known him for 10 years, but we didn’t date as we were never in the same city for almost seven years. He moved away for further studies when I was in college, and we were in touch only through mails and phone calls. I eventually told him that we have to be in the same city if we wanted to give our future together a chance. That was also one of the reasons I didn’t talk about my relationship — even I didn’t know what lay ahead, and life and relationships are unpredictable. However, he left everything and returned to India for me; that’s something I will always cherish and appreciate.”
 
 With so many marriages falling apart, what’s her mantra for a successful marriage? “I am still figuring it out. I hope my marriage works, I will be shattered if it doesn’t. I was in a long-distance relationship for years, and there was an unspoken commitment between us. When I am asked what made our relationship survive, I always reply that we didn’t find anyone else. The connection was always deep; you need to understand each other as friends before becoming spouses. That said, I wouldn’t recommend a long-distance relationship to anyone as it’s horrible. You miss each other and don’t know what to do about it. Our relationship survived because our bond was strong,” she signs off.
 
 
