Studies over the years have shown that  , though full of infantile hope, is also when couples split up the most, people fight the most, and in general, make themselves miserable. Now, this may be because a high is always followed by a low. It’s not just physics but life itself that teaches us this. Then there’s research that proves this theory. And then some Roman mythology...

 
 
 The word ‘January’ is derived from Roman God Janus, who symbolised beginnings and transitions. Depicted with two heads facing opposite directions (see pic.), Janus is caught somewhere between the year gone by, and the one forward. That could be the reason why we often find ourselves in a flux — not living in the present — but lost a little in the past while overthinking the future, or, torn between extreme optimism and extreme despair.
 
 
 
 According to psychologist Dr Cliff Arnall, the third Monday of January is typically “the most depressing day of the year”. The formula that Arnall used factors in weather conditions, debt level, time since Christmas, time since failing our New Year’s resolutions, low motivational levels and feeling of a need to take action, which all eventually add to stress levels and push us towards panic attacks and chronic comparisons. 
 
 
 
 Prof Ed Watkins from the University of Exeter’s Mood Disorders Centre (MDC), reports, “Depressed mood is often exacerbated by a perception of a gap between how someone wants things to be and how they actually are. These actual vs ideal discrepancies are highlighted in January because the ‘low’ followed by the festive season ‘high’ affects everyone and the stark contrast makes us feel inadequate. “People negatively compare how they are now with what they used to be able to do or what they hoped they would do,” adds Watkins. A click on your smartphone shows a post from a friend who has released their second e-book, another colleague has posted a video of her online programme looking phenomenal. You ask yourself: Am I falling behind?
 
 Research suggests that from six to 80, comparison affects almost everyone. January only makes it worse. But all hope isn’t lost. Says relationship expert Nisha Khanna, “While taking stock of our lives’ ledger, we fail to understand that happiness is a changing emotion. The January Jitters will eventually make way for Fabulous February, Merry March, Amazing April...” 
 
 The Google Misery Index — search for words like anxiety, pain, depression, fatigue — may peak after  , but that shouldn’t be enough to get you down. The simple reason being that no one searches for positive words like ‘joy’ or ‘happiness’ when they are happy. Says psychiatrist Dr Sagar Mundada, “January Blues or SAD ( seasonal affective disorder) might be real for some people but it’s never a good reason to feel down. The low moods become better as daylight lengthens, and eventually changes its impact on people’s chemical regulatory system. Keep your momentum high and tell yourself your goals are achievable, and they will take time. You must remember you are in control of how you feel.” 
 
 In the meantime, try doing things mentioned below to keep your spirits up.
 
 How to beat the  
 
 Go outdoors in the sunshine.
  
  Research shows if workers switch between a variety of physical postures during their work day, it energises and mentally stimulates them.
 
  Go seek your quiet space at work, focus on your thoughts and increase wellbeing in the workplace.
 
  Choose colours wisely. Blue stimulates clarity, yellow boosts creativity and lifts spirits and green creates a sense of calming balance.
 
  into your office and home.
 
 It’s been calculated that Blue Monday   — the most depressing day of the year, when we are all at our melancholic best — will be January 15. The formula to arrive at this conclusion includes weather conditions, debt level, time since Christmas, time since failing our New Year resolutions, low motivational levels... all leading to anxiety and stress.
 
