ULUBERIA: The unusually quiet campus of Uluberia’s Tehatta high school on Wednesday afternoon couldn’t hide the tension simmering underneath. The school managing committee has decided to celebrate Saraswati Puja this Sunday, a day before the school is taken over by election authorities for the January 29 by-elections.

 
 Last year, denial of permission for the puja had prompted several hundred students of this school to march eight kilometres and block NH-6 with a three-foot Saraswati idol for three hours, leading to a police lathicharge and mob violence. It was alleged that some students, reportedly denied permission to observe Nabi Diwas in the school on December 12, 2016, had put a spanner in the works of the Saraswati Puja plans.
 
 Not celebrating Saraswati Puja in school was a first in this government-aided school’s 65-year-old history. “This year will not be any different from previous years. Whatever happened last year is now in the past. We have a go-ahead from the administration to conduct Saraswati Puja on Monday,” said school managing committee president Nihar Ranjan Bhuniya. “We hope to celebrate the puja this year,” said teacher-in-charge Utpal Bhowmik.
 
 The repeated assertions to celebrate the puja — and the administration’s nod — appears to be a part of an attempt to counter a combative   by the Trinamool-led regime. The party’s candidate and Howrah (rural) district president Anupam Mullick said: “The school incident had shown the administration’s true face. This — and the Dhulagarh strife — hasn’t gone down well with the majority population in Uluberia. We aren’t against minorities, but the majority can’t be neglected.”
 
 According to the 2011census, Uluberia has a 39.35% Muslim population. This, however, is spread differently in rural and urban Uluberia. In urban patches, Muslims comprise a 53.18% majority population; in rural patches the Muslim population is 20.4%.
 
 In the 2016 assembly elections, polarization had helped BJP garner 8.03% to 16.5% vote share in the urban patches. In rural belts of Uluberia, the party’s vote-share ranged from 3.97% to 5.83%. Compared with the 2014 Lok Sabha results, BJP’s vote-share had dropped by over 43,000 votes in 2016.
 
 These undercurrents to dominate the scene in the runup to the January 29 by-elections to the   constituency. The usual poll graffiti, banners, are surprisingly few. The boisterous election meetings are also missing. In fact, the first public meeting spotted on Tuesday morning along a 40-minute 25km drive from   to Shyampur was one by BJP around noon. Even in this, the announcer punctuated his announcements with an apology for starting late.
 
 Trinamool nominee Shazda Ahmed, former MP Sultan Ahmed’s widow, has till now focused on small meetings and targeted outreach initiatives.
 
 In the last 27 years, and 10 general elections in   constituency, a minority candidate — CPM’s Hannan Mollah from 1980 to 2009 and   from 2009-2016 — has always won.
 
