The New Year’s Day race is all about fashion, fun and adrenaline  . With 21,000 people cheering for nine consecutive races this year, the ambience at   was electrifying. We took a stroll around the club and here is what we found...

 
  
 
 
  As the horses galloped towards the finishing line, all you could hear was a loud cheer. And within half a minute the cheer died down to a collective murmur — while some rejoiced in their win, some cribbed over their losses. “The tradition of the day was to party till early morning on New Year’s Eve, grab some breakfast at  , go for New Year services at the local churches and then quickly come here and continue merrymaking,” said Brendan Claudius, a city-based travel agent, who was attending the race with wife Jilian, and friend Sandra Downes. 
  
  
 
 “We’ve been coming here for many years now. The only difference I can see these days is that the men’s sense of fashion has gone down drastically. No tie, no jacket! Look at us, the women. We are always spot on,” quipped Jilian. “The New Year race is one of the biggest and grandest sporting-cum-social events in the city. This has been a tradition for many, many years now. We have always seen huge gatherings on this day at the club and this year was no different. We have seen an attendance of more than 21,000 people,’ said Cyrus Madan, steward, RCTC. Between noon and 4 pm, nine races were hosted.
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 From fancy fascinators to cool shades and beautiful berets — the attendees of the NYD race showcased some jaw-dropping fashion. Not just the accessories, we also caught some outstandingly smart ensembles among the PYTs at the field. Prakriti Ganeriwala, who has been visiting the race day for the past four years, looked impeccably smart in her black layering with canary yellow crop top and an edgy fascinator. “I bet on horse number 8 called Arya’s Pet in the second race and it won. Isn’t it great?” said an overjoyed Prakriti. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The festivity that overwhelmed the race course area was a spectacular sight. The car park was full of vendors — aged between 10 and 50 — selling books, betting tickets and what not! At the stands, bearers were seen serving sandwiches and chilled beer. The food court at the lawn soon turned into a fete where the attendees were seen letting their hair down and tapping their feet to some retro numbers. Though the betting counters were buzzing throughout the day, many of the spectators attended the event just for the sake of enjoying the race. “I never gamble. But I have been coming here for the past 30 years. Now I bring my wife as well,” said Sabyasachi Kumar, who came from Jadavpur. 
 
 
