The episode of   starts with Adi telling the cops that by the time the reached the location   had been shot and they don’t know who did it. He tells him he can carry on the investigation and they will cooperate. 

  and   are seen talking in the corridor. She says Ishita will not be able to give any statement as she will die. Nurse comes out of Ishita’s room and tells everyone that Ishita has gained consciousness. Simmi gets scared and fears now that Ishita is alive she will have to go to jail. She panicks and Param calms her down. He tells her to go home and pack her bags and he will stay back to see what Ishita tells to the cops. 
 
 The Bhalla’s and Iyer family leave for home and Shagun stays back in the hospital as Mani is out of the town. The Bhalla’s reach home and Mrs Bhalla says she will check on Raman. She comes out crying that   is not in the house. Adi makes a call to Shagun to inquire If Raman has come to the hospital but Shagun tells him that he has not come there. Raman is at Shagun’s house, he meets Mani at the door who takes him inside. At Bhalla house everyone is worried. Mani asks him what happened and Raman requests him to send him to asylum as he is a threat to the family. He tells Mani that his family shouldn’t get to know this but Mani refuses. 
 
 At Bhalla house, everyone decides that they will not tell Ishita that Raman is missing. Family members meet Ishita and Inspector tells Ishita that they got a gun from the location and asks her to identify it. She says but please switch on the lights as I can’t see the gun. Everyone gets to learn that Ishita has lost her eyesight. Ishita cries and gets out of control. 
 
 Param who is listening all this gets happy. He makes a call to Simmi and informs her. Later, doctor comes and confirms to the family that Ishita has lost her eyesight. Simmi lights a diya in front of Ananya’s picture and says that she has taken a revenge on Ishita who killed her. 
 
 Inspector tells Ishita that they want to know where is Raman. He asks about the incident and who shot at her. Ishita reveals to the cop that Raman did not shoot her as his gun had no bullets. She had removed it and kept it safe in a locker at home. She tells if the gun was empty how can he shoot her. Inspector tells even they did not get any fingerprints on that gun. Parmeet looks on.
 
