KOLKATA: A year after they introduced speed checks, the   is thinking of following the Kolkata Police method of fines for pedestrians who violate basic laws while using the important roads and crossings, especially within Salt Lake’s business centres. The drive will begin this month. While initially there will be a campaign, the actual drive will take off once certain legal issues are sorted out.

 Police sources said the decision to penalize pedestrians stemmed from two facts — illegal pedestrian movement was leading to accidents and the drives to regulate jaywalking hadn’t got the desired success.
 
 “Regulating pedestrian movement has been our top concern. At several points, we have blocked entry and created boulevards with help from civic agencies. However, there are certain zones — especially in the business hub — where jaywalking is still rampant,” said an official.
 
 TOIchecked the accessibility of street furniture at several crossings this weekend and found that while some have zebra crossings, there were places which didn’t have them and even lacked basic street furniture like timers for pedestrians. But at most places, the pedestrians seemed to have an aversion to following rules.
 
  
 
  One of the busiest crossings in  , it has well designated zebra crossings and cops man this point. A little ahead, near the bus terminus, jaywalking is the norm. The multiple bus stops allow pedestrians to cough up excuses of crossing the busy intersection at any given point.
 
 
  This important Sector V intersection has no zebra crossing, nor any police presence beyond peak hours. Several minor accidents have been reported from this point in the past decade.
 
 
  It has well laid out zebra crossings and designated zones of assembly. Yet, peak hours often mean crossing the road taking unnecessary risks.
 
 
 This point linking Salt Lake with New Town now witnesses major footfall. Well barricaded so as to not allow jaywalking, pedestrians are more careful while crossing this speed corridor. However, there are still some who refuse to follow rules.
 
