PATIALA: The SGPC sub-committee, which was set up to look into the alleged removal of chapters on Sikhs from the history textbook of Class XII of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), has sought a ban on the books. The panel submitted its report to SGPC president   and claimed that the history book with changed content had distorted facts.

 The panel members — principal Surinder Singh from Anandpur Sahib, SGPC member Harjinder Kaur from Chandigarh, SGPC director for education Jatinder Singh Sidhu, SGPC education secretary Avtar Singh Saimpla, principal of   Muktsar Tejinder Kaur Dhaliwal and SGPC additional secretary for dharam parchar committee   — held a meeting here on Wednesday and claimed that they were not taken into the loop.
 
 The panel claimed that Prof  , who is member of SGPC’s Sikh history research board, was also not shown the matter drafted for the book and hence the errors were committed. Prof Singh from the department of encyclopaedia of Sikhism at Punjabi University, Patiala, claimed that he was hired by the state government to look into the matter but was not shown the drafted matter before uploading the book on the internet. The SGPC probe panel also quizzed him on Wednesday during its meeting over the history textbook.
 
 The members claimed that three baptized Sikhs were shown with   in the book instead of five. Similarly, word ‘appointment’ has been used for the anointment of Guru Angad Dev.
 
 Panel member Harjinder said, “It’s a conspiracy to present distorted facts of Sikh history, and for this reason the content was changed by the government. It has been wrongly mentioned Guru Angad Dev was ‘appointed’ as the second Guru whereas the word ‘given or endowed’ should have been used instead of appointment. The focus has been made on ‘Ram Bhakti’ and it seems some agency is working behind this.” She further said, “We still ask the government to provide Sikh scholars of the SGPC the text in future so that such blunders are not committed. We appreciate the effort of adding the history of the four Sahibzaadas. But removing the history of 10 Gurus cannot be justified at all. Providing this history in Classes of IX, X and XI instead of class XII is irrelevant.”
 
 Coordinator of the PSEB for history syllabus Seema Chawla refused to comment on allegations of not taking the SGPC into the loop. She further said, “We have honestly made efforts for students and not for any politics. Students have read only guides for the last many years but we made an honest approach in this academic work.”
 
 
