TRICHY: When P   set up his roadside food cart at LIC Colony in   25 years ago, he had only one thing in mind – to sell eatables at as low a cost as possible so that everyone could afford to have snacks at his eatery. The cost factor coupled with deliciousness worked wonders for him and his food cart became the toast of K K Nagar and still remains a sought-after snack destination in the locality.

 Today, at least 500 people on an average visit his eatery every day. Masala vadai, which is available for one rupee apiece, medhu vadai for Rs 2, samosa for Rs 10 (three pieces) and potato bonda, which also costs a rupee per piece, are the in-demand snacks in his food cart. Rengaraj said that his business had turned out to be successful because he didn’t get overly ambitious or greedy and that he never liked to increase the cost of the snacks. “Selling snacks for a low price has proved to be a win-win for both me and my customers. If they like to have good snacks for a low price I too make a decent profit because so many customers visit my place every day,” he said.
 
 Apart from vadai, samosa and bonda, adhirasam, which costs Rs 5 per piece and pakoda, which costs Rs 20 (100 grams), are also very popular among the customers. “Sometimes the work is so tiring because everything gets sold out the moment they are laid on the tray. But again, I take it as a reward for the quality of the food that is offered at my eatery,” Rengaraj said.
 
 The 45-year-old owed much of the good reputation that his eatery has earned to his wife, R Kavitha. The food cart is open from 1 pm to 9 pm. “Every morning, my wife starts the primary preparation by around 10 am and it is her recipe that has worked wonders,” Rengaraj said. Since only the two of them looked after the eatery, they were able to cut costs efficiently.
 
 Rengaraj says he lays much emphasis on serving healthy food. “I never ever sell leftover food at my eatery. I procure fresh vegetables everyday and also take so much effort to make sure that even the ingredients used are as fresh as possible,” he stated.
 
