This four-day-long festival celebrated in   to welcome the harvesting season. Mid January is an important time in the Tamilian calendar.   typically falls on January 14th or 15th and is a quintessential Tamil festival. Since this period is considered so auspicious that it is also an important month for weddings.

 On the first day of the festival it is celebrated as ‘Bhogi festival’. This is in the honor of Lord Indra, the supreme ruler of clouds that give rains. On the second day, a puja is performed by boiling rice in milk. It is then offered to Sun God along with other rituals. Known as Mattu Pongal, the third day of Pongal is for cows. The cattle is decorated by multi-coloured beads, tinkling bells and flower garlands around their neck. The Fourth day is known as Knau or Kannum Pongal day. The rituals on this day are to be performed early in the morning without taking bath. On this day, a turmeric leaf is washed and is then placed on the ground. On this leaf are placed, the left overs of sweet Pongal and Venn Pongal, ordinary rice as well as rice colored red and yellow, betel leaves, betel nuts, two pieces of sugarcane, turmeric leaves, and plantains.
 
 But what is most important while celebrating this festival is wishing your friends and family. So here are few wishes, messages,   and images that you can share right away!
 
 
 
 
 As you joyfully celebrate the festival of Pongal and welcome the harvest season, this greeting is being sent your way, to wish you everything, that the occasion is meant to bring. Have a Happy Pongal.
 
 May this auspicious festival bring you
 Overflowing happiness, joy and prosperity
 Wishing you a blessed and happy Pongal!
 
 The sun shines bright
 To guide and lead us the way
 Towards bountiful harvest season
 May you be blessed with prosperity and joy
 Happy Pongal!
 
 While you reading this messages
 I hope My Pongal Wishes will spread you
 like the sweet Pongal milk
 Happy Pongal
 
 Wishing that the Lord's blessing always be upon you and that your stocks never fall short.
 
 Pongal thirunaalum, 
 Thalaipongal thirunalum,
 Pongivarum pongal pola 
 Engum pongattum magizhchi 
 Iniya pongal nalvaazhthukkal! 
 
 Let the warmth of the auspicious festival of Pongal fill your home with joy. Have a wonderful Pongal.
 
 Sawgath hosa bellakige 
 Jothe santhosh nimma mukhadhalli 
 Prethi nima hrudhayadhalli 
 Sihiyadha thoughts nimma mindyalli 
 Nimmage E-dina Wonderful dina hagabiku 
 Sankranti habbada Shubhasheyagalu 
 
 Here comes the vessel, here comes the milk, here comes the first harvest rice. Pongal is ready, let us start the celebrations! Happy Pongal.
 
 Between beautiful kolams and auspicious decoration, let us meet, greet and, of course, eat. Happy Pongal!
 
 
 
 
 
 Wish you a Happy  
 
 I wish that your Pongal be full of fun and joy.
 
 May the harvest festival destroy all your worries and fear and fill your heart with calm and good thoughts. Happy Pongal.
 
 Wishing a very Happy Pongal for all Tamilians. 
 Enjoy this day with colorful kolams and sweets.
 
 Happy Pongal. With great devotion, fervor and gaiety, my warm wishes to you and your family.
 
 Inia Pongal nal valthukal! 
 
 Thai pongal Thirunal Valthukal! 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
