In the latest episode of  , Roop finds the file that   had thrown in the dustbin. She goes to the police station and pretends to be Anika. She tells the inspector that she has proof against the Oberois and knows that they were involved in the Kalyani Mill fire incident. The inspector looks at the file. 

 Meanwhile, Anika goes to Sahil. She tells him they are leaving the city. Sahil is baffled and asks Anika if she fought with Shivaay again. She hugs him. Khanna informs Shivaay, who is on the lookout for Anika, that she was spotted at the interstate bus stand. Shivaay calls Sahil but Anika throws the latter’s phone away. He goes to find her but is unable to see her despite being in close proximity. 
 
 Just then, the commissioner calls Shivaay and informs him that they are coming to arrest Pinky, Jhanvi, Tej and Shakti as they have got evidence against them. He further informs Shivaay that it was given to them by Anika, which leaves him shocked. Shivaay is sure that Anika had been manipulated by Roop and can never do such a thing. 
 
 Pinky, Jhanvi, Shakti and Tej wait for Shivaay to return home and are seen in an inconsolable state. Shivaay looks at the footage shown by the police commissioner and tells him that this doesn’t prove that Anika actually gave the evidence. When the commissioner refuses to listen to Shivaay, the latter calls his lawyer to arrange for an anticipatory bail for the elders. He goes out of the station and wonders why Anika didn’t trust him enough. 
 
 Elsewhere, Om and Rudra inform Gauri and Bhavya about the recent incidents. The four decide to find out Anika and bring her home. The girl, with whom Shivaay got married, comes to the Oberoi mansion, seeking refuge. She tells them that Roop had held her captive for many days and would kill her if she didn’t stay at their place. Pinky asks her to leave before Shivaay returns. 
 
 The scene shifts. Roop calls   and tells him that she has succeeded in her mission. But Veer’s phone drops after he tells her that he has met with an accident. Roop is shocked at this. 
 
