LUCKNOW: As doctors at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) and King George’s Medical University ( ) get divided on the issue of superannuation of faculty from 65 to 70 years of age, a burning question looms over the controversial issue – how would the deserving from the younger lot of doctors get to head departments and administrative positions?

 
 Rotational headship is being seen as a way out of the situation by the younger staff but is not a plausible option for many of the seniors, some of whom say working under subordinates has not gone down well for institutions in the past. On one hand, the comparatively younger medical professionals in both institutions have openly claimed that the issue of extending retirement age is being pursued under pressure from a handful of senior doctors who are about to retire.
 
 They argue that, those on the verge of retirement holding onto administrative posts and the perks attached for an even longer time, is only going to plateau the growth prospects of the younger lot in the profession for more years to come. The senior medical professionals, on the other hand, claim that the headship issue is a secondary point being raised by faculty members while the main issue is talent and experience being made to leave after 65 years, even if they continue to be functional and delivering results. “Senior faculty members have for long been sitting on administrative posts, not stepping aside for the young to step in. What is the incentive, then, for those of us who have decades of experience ourselves, to stay on?" said Prof  , general secretary, KGMU Teachers’ Association.
 
 “If the system of rotatory headship is operating successfully in all state universities, what is the legal barrier to apply it in medical universities? A government order in 2001 had proposed rotational headship for all state universities which was implemented for all in 2008, except KGMU,” said Prof Kumar. Added Prof Amitabh Arya, executive committee member of  : “Increasing the age will only set a wrong precedent for the future. Last year, SGPGIMS administration had tried to use the tactic in the form of ‘professor of eminence’, which proposed that a director will retire at 70 years and so will all the department heads, but the proposal was stopped. The present push by and for the interest of a few professors at SGPGIMS is a redux of the same.”
 
 “The age was first increased from 55 years to 60 years, then to 62 years. Now, there is a move to push it to 70 years. If this continues, superannuation might continue till death,” added Prof Arya.
 
 Faculty pushing for keeping retirement age at 65 years also claimed that the proposal sent to the government by senior professors, was sent to the government without seeking opinion from other faculty members.
 
 “A handful of professors sent their case to state ministers, based on half-truths, while not taking other faculty on board," said the SGPGIMS faculty forum.
 
 This, however, is refuted by senior professors. Prof SC Tiwari, founding head of KGMU's geriatric mental health department, said: “The provision of re-employment of a faculty after 65 years of age without any administrative power exists. But, it has failed to keep teachers back. It is true that senior professors are unwilling to work under their subordinates.”
 
 “When the age was increased from 55 years in phases till 65 years, why was it not an issue then? If the age of retirement is increased now, it will benefit not just few but all in the future, if not immediately,” added Prof Tiwari. Head of KGMU's orthopaedics department, Prof GK Singh said: “Individual perspectives dependent on who retains headship and who does not, cannot be allowed to supercede and drown institutional and public health perspective. The young can be recruited and older made to stay on longer. The government can look at the departmental growth of AIIMS, KGMU and SGPGIMS where there are permanent heads with that of the rotational headship at BHU and take an evidence based decision.”
 
