NAGPUR: With parliamentary elections a year away, the BJP leaders have swung into an election mode. They are busy pleasing slum dwellers, who form a large chunk of voters in the city.

 Chief minister   and union transport minister Nitin   are wooing the slum dwellers by distributing them pattas (ownership documents). They had announced this before the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) elections in February 2017. Since then, the   (NIT) has conducted surveys on its lands where slums have cropped up. Those having proof of residency prior to the year 2000 are being given pattas.
 
 Fadnavis, on Sunday, announced that all slum dwellers of the city would get pattas (ownership documents) within a year. “Our decision will benefit one lakh families of Nagpur,” he said while addressing NIT’s ownership document distribution function for residents of   and Indira Nagar slums.
 
 He further said that all the slum dwellers living on NIT land would get pattas within four months. “This will be followed by documents for those living on Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and nazul lands,” he added.
 
 The CM said that as per survey done by NIT, 428 houses have been given registration number in Indira Nagar. “Of these, 69 houses are on land reserved for playground, 97 houses are located in another khasra and 262 houses are eligible for pattas,” he added.
 
 In Kasturba Nagar, 100 houses have been given registration number. “We have received 11 applications while 89 slum dwellers have submitted the necessary documents. In this area, 48 houses are eligible for pattas. The remaining 48 residents have not submitted proof of pre-2000 residence. When they submit the same they will become eligible for pattas,” the CM further said.
 
 Praising the BJP government, Fadnavis said that the Congress-NCP government had only given assurance about pattas before every election. “We have actually delivered on the promise. We believe in upliftment of all sections of society. Poor people should get their rights,” he added.
 
 Gadkari said that slum dwellers of north Nagpur had been demanding pattas since years but in vain. “CM Fadnavis has fulfilled their dream by issuing the necessary order. Soon all slum dwellers of Nagpur would become legal owners of their houses,” he added.
 
 Nagpur North MLA Dr   said that the area had been neglected by the government for years. “It is for the first time that a government is doing something for the residents. I thank Fadnavis for this,” he added.
 
 
