Trichy: In the wake of the fire accident at Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple, the civic body recently conducted a review meeting with stakeholders to ensure the safety of devotees. The meeting discussed the danger in the making thanks to the rapid encroachment of all the four gateways of the Samayapuram Mariamman temple. 

 Sources said that representatives of traders agreed to remove the encroachments on all the four entrances voluntarily during the meeting. However, officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department termed the meeting an eyewash and wanted the concerned panchayat to regulate traders and hawkers with an iron hand.
 
 Attracting at least 25,000 devotees on any given day, all entrances to one of the pivotal temples in the district, namely eastern, western, southern and northern gates, appear congested despite having space wide enough to accommodate larger crowd. Coming on the heels of the Meenakshi Amman temple fire, HR&CE officials and also devotees claimed that the gateways of Samayapuram temple were highly prone to similar fire accidents. They point to the products sold in the shops as also the choked access ways which were hardly enough for a vehicle to gain entry during emergency situations. 
 
 The review meeting of stakeholders was convened by the S Kannanur town panchayat following the complaints and serious allegations levelled at it for being silent on the encroachments, . “We have already surveyed the entrances of Samayapuram Mariamman temple to demarcate the actual width of access roads. Traders have assured us that they will remove the temporary encroachment by themselves. If they fail to do so, we will remove the encroachments within a week,” an official with the town panchayat told TOI. According to the local body, about two to three feet of the access road to Samayapuram temple has been encroached.
 
 It may be recalled that TOI had on February 6 carried a report titled “A Wakeup call for Samayapuram temple” highlighting the safety lapses due to encroachments. After the publication of the report, Trichy SP, P S C Kalyan had instructed the Samayapuram police to prepare a roadmap for addressing the difficulties of devotees in this regard. The town panchayat had also instructed the traders not to install thatched huts as ceilings for the shops to avoid vulnerability.
 
 
