She is just 21 and is the winner of the first ever  .  , who prefers to be known by her pet-cum-artist name, ‘Sona’, created a character  , who can photosynthesise; is half-human and half-tree.
The contest, created by   and its partner  , received nearly 3,000 submissions from 99 different countries. The participants were all youngsters and more than 21,000 votes were cast to select the winner. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 “Five months ago, my sister and I were on a vacation to meet our cousin living in New York. My sister, Aishu, saw this contest on Instagram and she suggested that I submit a superhero illustration. So, we ended up creating a character called Tré, who could photosynthesise. We thought if humans could breathe out oxygen, we can reduce the carbon emission in the air, and thereby, global warming. I ended up sending my submission to the contest in the last 20 minutes on the final day of the submission. I really did not expect to be selected,” shares an overwhelmed  , who graduated in visual arts from   last year. She took painting as her major.
 When she came back to Chennai, her sister reminded her to check her emails and do a follow-up on the contest. To her utter surprise, she couldn’t believe that her name was selected in the top 20 finalists out of 3,000 submissions. “I was proud already. But after a week of voting, I won the contest and it was all unexpected,” smiles Sona.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Sona says she was attracted to this contest because of two reasons. “First,   has affected Chennai terribly and due to the floods, we have lost many lives. It is painful to endure climate change in Chennai as summer has become hotter and winter, that never existed, has become a part of the seasonal changes here.” 
 
 We also started experiencing drought during summers and floods during monsoons. Secondly, I liked the fact that it was a superhero contest as I’m a huge fan of Marvel and I love reading Manga, their Japanese comics.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After she won the contest, she has been working on the comic book along with Decheser Media Team and UNICEF. “For three months, Kristen Cordero, Callie Anne King-Guffey from UNICEF and I have been planning, executing, through Skype and other means of communication, to produce this comic book. Michael, Tim Lattie and Katrina Carr are the comic production team who helped me a lot and they were super supportive in this entire process. I learnt so much in the process of creating the comic book,” she adds.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The superhero character Tré which Sona has created in her comic book, has the ability to grow trees and anything terrestrial. Dr Clifford is Tré’s creator; she is a brave scientist in the book. “My next favourite character is Snow, who is a white squirrel with three tails. The story is about how these three characters are guided by a tree character, Quabala, to save earth from climate change,” explains Sona.
 
 It took more than three months to create more characters, finalise the story, pencilling, inking, colouring and lettering. “Though it was fun to create the comic book, I had to go through long hours of work, deadlines, tensions and lot of hard work and effort,” she adds.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 As she was a painting student, working on the comic digitally was new to her and she had to put in a lot of hard work and time to understand the process. This whole process taught her how much work goes into creating a comic book, with scripting, pencilling, inking, colouring, lettering and so on. Scripting was a different experience for Sona and she says, “So far, I have been an artist and not a storyteller. But collaborating with others for scripting led to creating more interesting characters in the story and helped produce a story with climate change as the main message.”
  She was invited to the comic book release, which happened on Earth Day last month. 
 
 
 
 
 Since she was a kid, Sona has had a love for art. She says she was not good at studies and had many difficulties. “Math and chemistry were my worst nightmares. I wasn’t really interested in studying, but art was one thing which I was interested in doing. I found peace in art and my family encouraged me by buying me art materials. Joining Visual Arts in Stella was the best thing that has happened to me in my career. And now, I’m going to Singapore for my second degree course in ‘Illustration with Design and Animation’, in Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts (NAFA). I am very excited. I love the fact that I use art as a medium to express what people can do for the environment. And I wish through this comic children learn more about climate change in a fun way.”
 Sona says that it was her interest that drove her to comics and illustration. “I’ve always loved the picture story-telling books and the expressions of the comic book characters appeal me,” she says. In fact, her elder sister started reading Manga after seeing Sona’s interest. 
 
 
 
 
 Sona grew up watching her parents doing their bit towards the wellness of the environment. Her father has dal mill that runs on solar energy. They have also installed solar panels on their roof tops. “We also have our very own vegetable garden, where we produce seasonal veggies and greens. My mother has always taught us not to use plastic products. We try as much as possible to reuse plastic bags and take our own water bottles when we go out. I have started becoming more cautious about what I buy and use nowadays. Today’s world is ignorant to the amount of plastic waste we produce and how much we pollute the air and water, which are essential for us. We are leaving a carbon footprint everywhere. That’s something which is frustrating for me.”
 
 
 
 
 Sona feels that as an artist it’s a great deal to approach climate change through comics and art as a medium. “It reaches the children and a whole lot of people. When kids read environmental issue-based comics, it’s easy for them to understand and grasp the concepts even if they do not have the scientific background. A picture conveys a thousand words and through this comic superhero, I aim to inspire people to act against climate change,” she signs off.
 
  
 
 
 
