GURUGRAM: The spot on Samaspur-Tigra road where a 22-year-old woman was raped late night on Sunday, is just two kilometres from the city’s only women’s police station, and is an area many consider upscale because of its proximity to  ,   and  . 

 But after sunset, it gets pitch dark there, as there isn’t a single street light installed on this stretch of road. There are also no CCTV cameras, nor anything resembling a footpath. And this, with an office building, an international school and a large   colony located nearby. It’s a microcosm of all the civic problems that render street after street in the city unsafe after dark. Yet, well lit roads remain a far cry for the city. 
 
 Residents of Tigra village, located adjacent to this road, have stacked hay and branches on the roadside. This is what acted as cover for the   committed by one of the five heavily drunk youths. 
 
 The SHO of Sector 56 police station, Arvind Kumar, stressed the need to install street lights on this stretch. “This road gets very dark at night-time. The youth dragged the woman out of the car she was in and took her to a spot nearby, behind the stacks of hay and dry branches, hiding it from view from the roadside. Authorities need to install street lights and clear the litter,” he said.
 
 Residents of Nirvana Country across the road said they fear stepping out on this road. “This road was very narrow, and was widened only recently. Anti-social elements roam around in this area, and since there are no street lights, it gives them perfect cover to hide their misdeeds. I’m sure this unfortunate incident would not have occurred had the road been lit. The perpetrators would have been emboldened by the fact that it is so dark. I’m told one of them belongs to this village,” said Ankit Sharma, a resident.
 
 On its part, MCG officials said the process of install street lights on this stretch has just got under way. 
 
 “These stretches, which were earlier under private developers, are now being taken over by MCG. Also, Chandigarh has just cleared our proposal to install LED street lights on this and other stretches, which, though, will take about six months to complete. We’ve earmarked dark spots in the city and will try to install street lights at these spots first,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 
