Nani, one of Telugu cinema’s most natural actors, is all set for his upcoming film   and while the audience eagerly awaits the release of the film, does it have good music to go along with it? Let’s find out.
  has composed the music for this film and those of you who are aware of his music will get a sense of the overall theme of the album — which is party music. And sure enough, the first song of the album is titled Turn This Party up, a classic Hiphop Tamizha, with fast beats and his inimitable rap. He’s the lyricist, composer and singer for this fast number and sets the tone for the rest of the album. A typical party number, this can be a hit at nightclubs and with youngsters. 
 Up next is Dhaari Choodu, which is a complete departure from the first song. In fact, listening to this after Turn This Party Up, makes you feel like you’re transporting from a posh nightclub in 2017 to green fields in rural Andhra Pradesh of the 80s. Sung and written by Penchal Das is peppy and serves up a healthy dose of nostalgia. 
 Somewhere in between these two contrasting numbers is I Wanna Fly, sung by LV Revanth and Sanjith Hegde. A slow, romantic number, this melodious song is the pick of the album and can be heard on loop, while working out or driving or while relaxing at home. This one is certainly a winner. 
 The next song, Ela Ela suffers from a bit of an identity crisis. It doesn’t know where it belongs, whether in the modern era or in the rural landscape of the yesteryears. There’s a rustic tune to it but is interspersed with heavy beats. To the composer’s credit, the tune is quite decent and singer   does a decent job. But the moment he begins to sing it in English, we know it’s time to switch to the next song. 
  is a popular singer here and has entertained Hyderabadi crowds on several occasions, and he has belted out a classic rock 
 number with Urime Manase. This song may not be everybody’s cup of tea, but has some good music and has the ability to grow on you, with Raghu Dixit doing a fine job with the vocals. Listening to this song makes you feel like you’re in a rock concert, and credit to the composer for giving you that experience. 
 Thaaney Vachhindhanaa, the last song of the album is also the only one which features a female voice. Sung by Kaala Bhairava and Padmalatha, it works as an isolated song but hardly makes an impact. In fact, it feels similar to a lot of duets that have been sung in this genre, and doesn’t really make you go want to back and listen to it again. 
 As a whole, Krishnarjuna Yudham is a diverse album which has something in it for all types of listeners. There’s a romantic song, a party song, a rock number, a nostalgia number and a mass number. Credit to the composer for managing to tick all the boxes. While some of them tend to be repetitive, the album as a whole deserves a thumbs up. 
 
 
