NEW DELHI: In an unprecedented move, Delhi’s subordinate judiciary has made public its opposition to stringent new rules laid down by the high   for purchase of laptops, computers, iPads, etc, by them. Last week, HC, for the first time, tightened rules for   to buy “ technology devices” since 2014, when the entire Delhi judiciary was singed by allegations of irregularities in purchase of these items.

 TOI had then highlighted how more than 300   court judges came under HC’s scanner for alleged financial irregularities in purchase of computers and laptops from funds provided by the Delhi government in 2013. As per the scheme, each judge is sanctioned Rs 1.10 lakh for upgrading their computer infrastructure where they have freedom to opt either for a computer, laptops or even iPads so that their efficiency in disposal of cases improves.
 
 Keen to ensure that there was no repeat, HC brought in new clauses for the 2018-21 block period, triggering stiff opposition from subordinate judges, so much so that the   (DJSA) — an organisation comprising judges — adopted a   on Wednesday against the new norms and apprised the HC of it.
 
 “Till these unreasonable conditions are withdrawn, we appeal to all judges of   not to purchase any items to avail of the funds for the interest of Delhi Judiciary (sic),” the resolution says.
 
 Sources claimed that the real bone of contention is one of the clauses asking every district court judge to attach a photograph/digital photograph of the purchased device showing the serial number, etc, for future verification by the HC administration, when receipts and invoices are filed for payment. DJSA has argued that the new circular specifying the rules is “unacceptable to us”, as it “further complicates the issue instead of simplifying it.”
 
 “We are all senior gazetted officers, it is very demeaning that HC now wants us to provide photos of devices that we buy. It is with deep sense of hurt that we have passed the resolution,” a judge told TOI.
 
 In the new rules, HC has banned cash/online purchases for those devices that cost more than Rs 5,000. “All such purchases should be made locally only through authorised dealers against invoices, bills,” one of the clause says, while another makes it clear that “the purchase should be made only in the name of judicial officers and not in the name of any family members or anyone”.
 
 In 2014, the irregularities came to light during a routine vigilance inquiry conducted by court officials. When the evidence was shown to the then Chief Justice G Rohini and other senior judges, Justice Rohini set up a high-level panel of HC judges to examine how money was spent by each of these judges. 
 
 
