LUDHIANA: There was a mixed response to the all-India   call in Ludhiana on Tuesday. The educational institutes remained open and transport facility was normal. 

 However, complete bandh was seen in old city areas, including Field Gunj, Chaura Bazaar, Gurmandi, Daal Bazaar, Purana Bazaar,  , Daresi, Hindi Bazaar, Mali Gunj Chowk, Pratap Bazaar, Books Market, Electronics Market, Kesar Gunj Mandi and Mochpura Bazaar.
 
 Ghumar Mandi, Sarabha Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Model Town, Dugri and   remained open. Areas near Dandi Swami Road witnessed a partial bandh.
 
 The April 2 bandh had brought the city to a halt when hundreds of protesters from the   community came on roads against the alleged dilution of the SC/ST Act. On Tuesday, a group representing the general category gathered at Gurmandi and took out a peaceful march. Besides, police were also deployed to ensure law and order.
 
 Commissioner of police Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “The bandh was peaceful. About 2,000 cops were deployed on roads.”
 
 In Gandhi Bazaar, some protesters requested the shopkeepers to shut the market to support them. But Basti Jodhewal witnessed tension when Dalit community members asked the shopkeepers to open shops and condemn the bandh call. 
 
 ACP (east) Pawanjit Chaudhary said the police reached the spot and controlled the situation. He said people from both the communities were issuing shopkeepers different directions. 
 
 Woollen trader   from Mochpura Bazaar said, “Initially we supported the bandh and downed the shutters. But by late afternoon, when we saw that the atmosphere was peaceful, the market started reopening.”
 
 Romy Vohra, a representative of Gaushala Road market, said, “Our entire market and Madhopuri were closed. We have willingly supported the bandh.”
 
 Maninder Singh, owner of a cafeteria in Dugri, said, “Bandh didn’t hit our area. The market remained open for the whole day.”
 
 Director of Sahodya Schools’ Complex D P Guleria said, “We were in a dilemma to open schools or not as there was no official intimation by the Central Board of Secondary Education, local administration or the government. Later, we decided to keep the schools open. It was a peaceful day.”
 
 
