BATHINDA: With senior SAD leader Dyal Singh Kolianwali and his family members not accepting the notices to repay the loan amount, officials of Punjab State Agricultural Development Bank (PADB) pasted the notices outside his residence at   in Muktsar district for the recovery of Rs 79.20 lakh.

 Kolianwali, who is considered a close confidant of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, his wife   and son   owe Rs 79.20 lakh, including interest, to PADB.
 
 PADB officials have asked the Kolianwali family to pay the amount by May 23 or else they will the next course of action, which includes auctioning of his 27 acres of land pledged with the bank.
 
 On May 4, Punjab cooperation minister   had suspended PADB’s Malout branch manager   for not preparing warrants of Kolianwali despite him not repaying the loan.
 
 PADB team from Malout on Tuesday evening went to Kolianwali’s residence to serve the notices, but the family did not accept the same.
 
 Kolianwali owed Rs 39 lakh (Rs 15.64 lakh loan and Rs 23.36 lakh interest till March 31). His wife Amarjit was supposed to pay Rs 35.57 lakh (Rs 13.77 lakh loan and Rs 21.79 lakh interest). His son Parminder owed Rs 4.62 lakh (Rs 3.37 lakh loan and Rs 1.25 lakh in interest) to PADB.
 
 PADB’s assistant general manager (AGM) in Muktsar, Ranjit Singh, said, “Our team had gone to serve notices, but Kolianwali and his family members did not accept the same. Therefore, we pasted the notices in the presence of the village chowkidar. The family has been asked to pay the amount by May 23 or face action.”
 
 Earlier, Kolianwali’s son was also accused of defaulting on electricity dues and his electricity connection was snapped.
 
 Kolianwali was not available for comments.
 
 On May 4, he had told TOI that he would repay the loan. He had alleged that minister Randhawa was acting on political grounds. “Many others also owed big amounts to the bank, but he is being victimised on political considerations,” he had said.
 
 PADB managing director H S Sidhu said, “The bank is trying to recover loans from willful defaulters. Nobody will be spared and action in accordance with the provisions of law will be taken against willful defaulters.”
 
 
