KOLKATA: The banner of Kalighat Tarun Club hangs at the entrance of what was once a cemetery. In 1805, after the British shifted Tipu Sultan’s family to Kolkata, this cemetery had come up here where family members of Tipu, including his sons, were laid to rest. A few tombs still remain; the rest have all vanished.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 51/1A Satish Mukherjee Road is now the address of many encroachers. Too few know that it was here that Mrinal Sen had shot ‘Parasuram’ with   and  , and that it narrates the story of a rural migrant to Kolkata who shares a temporary shelter in a graveyard where he meets a girl who later disappears into the darkness. The film had released in 1979. Today, two dilapidated minarets of the mausoleum peep behind electric wires and the concrete jungle that have come up on the premises. The stairs that lead to the minaret have long been shut down. In the film, Sen’s protagonist had made this graveyard his home. Now, a group of men happily play chess on the ground floor.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Yes, they echo in unison, and point at one languishing some three feet away.
 
 Nobody knows who it belongs it. A cycle rests on the tomb. Precariously balanced on it is a wooden staircase. Raja Paswan, one of the card players, remembers Sen’s shoot. “I must have been in Class V then. We would come here to see the shooting,” Paswan says. A few steps away is another remnant of the past. Teenager Rajesh, who lives in another house that has been built inside a dome that once supposedly housed a tomb, isn’t scared of spirits. “So many people live here. Why should I be scared?” Rajesh shoots back. Is he aware of Sen’s graveyard shifts? “No. I love movies of Sunny Deol,” he says. There is a big stretch of green with a rickety goalpost near this slum. Locals say there are graves underneath the greens. Mazumdar is witness to how the topography of this place had changed over the years. “We used to shoot in a desolate cemetery. Today, it has become a slum and changed beyond recognition. Few know that the last scene of ‘Akaler Sandhane’ was shot inside St Xavier’s grounds,” Mazumdar says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 For Dhritiman Chaterji, it is a tad difficult to locate the house on Camac Street where he had shot ‘Padatik’ with Simi Garewal. “Perhaps it was called Camac Court,” he says. However, it isn’t difficult for Mazumdar to recognise the house on Beltala Road where she had shot ‘Kharij’. During those days, Sen’s residential address was 14 Beltala Road. The first-floor balcony where Mazumdar had shot a sequence with little Indranil Moitra remains exactly the way it was shot in the film. Current owner Jayatri Chakraborty, who teaches in a school for underprivileged children, remembers the shoot. “My advocate husband was known to Mrinal Sen. That’s how the shooting happened,” Chakraborty says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Mazumdar even remembers shooting a drawing-room scene indoors, where she recites the rhyme “Miss Molly had a dolly who was sick sick sick/ So she phoned for the doctor to be quick quick quick”. “Geeta-di (Geeta Sen) and I had shot inside the house. A few outdoor shots were shot on Beltala Road. I remember shooting one in front of an old house that was opposite to where Mrinal-da stayed,” she says.
 
 That house still remains stuck in time. The only difference is the collapsible grills that have been installed as a safety guard. According to Sen’s son Kunal, the main house where Anjan Dutt and Mamata Shankar lived was recreated on the sets of Arora Studio. That site has changed beyond recognition. One can fumble for adjectives to describe this quaint bungalow that stands as the only memory of that studio. The squalor makes it partly Dickensian, but that adjective doesn’t adequately describe the place. This is the Arora studio office, where Sen had joined as a trainee sound engineer.
 
  
  
 
 
 Today, nothing of that office remains. A cat mews past as one walks inside, to what seems like a poor man’s curio shop. From hens in cages to heaps of old books, from an old DVD of ‘Thailand-e Bangali’ to used liquor bottles on the ground, the bungalow has everything. Peeping behind the garbage are some ornate old iron railings. Current resident  , locally known as ‘Mastermoshai’, claims the black berry and lemon trees date back to the days when Sen would come shooting there.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sets for many of Mrinal Sen’s cult films, including ‘Ekdin Pratidin’, ‘Chalchitra’, ‘Ekdin Achanak’ were shot there. Back in the late 90s, the owner of Arora studio shifted out. Everything else surrounding this house — the high-rise in front, the park on the left, have moved ahead with time. Except this bungalow.
 
 Lying in one corner of the house is a director’s chair. This is the one Sen would use when he came shooting. “But I don’t allow anyone to sit on it,” says the protective Adhikary. And there is another thing that he never does. He doesn’t look at the place where the studio once stood. “I have seen the floor being razed to the ground. Manager Sunil Ghosh and I stayed on in this bungalow. After Sunil babu died, I live here alone,” his voice trails off.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 During ‘Ekdin Pratidin’, shooting had begun in a dilapidated house in Shyampukur. In Siladitya Sen’s ‘Mrinal Sener Filmjatra’, the director had talked about how he would try to include an entire universe in a north Kolkata house. He would select a house in north Kolkata, shoot some scenes there and then replicate the topography of the place in the studio. “I was a Class V student when I shot for ‘Ekdin Pratidin’. It was an old house in north Kolkata. Then, we shifted to the Arora Studio,” remembers Kaushik Sen, who had acted in the film.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Anjan Bose, the owner of Arora Studio, is nostalgic. “This property was taken on lease by my grandfather. Bonbihari Shaw was the original owner. We had one studio floor, a processing laboratory and editing setup. After our paid-up lease got over, I couldn’t find the actual owner. Everybody was claiming ownership. I couldn’t renew the lease. Soon, local rowdies took over. Finally, I left the place,” Bose says.
 
 Bose never visited 106/3 Narkeldanga North Road after bidding adieu to the studio. “The entire film, including the famous smoke scene from ‘Chalchitra’, was shot here,” claims Bose, who has directed a 53-minute-long documentary titled ‘Arora Bioscope’, which chronicles his memories of this place.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Then there is tea-seller   at Bordar Chayer Dokan, whose father came to work there some 60 years back. “So many film stars had come and shot here. Mrinal Sen would come to our shop, have tea and then stand and smoke before he went shooting again. It would have been good had the heritage of this place been maintained,” Mondal says.
 
 The story is almost similar at Mahesh Chaudhuri Lane, where Sen had shot ‘Interview’. Old-timer Subhas Ghosh, who lives in the same locality, remembers Mallick shooting there. “I was in Class IX then. We would often drop by to watch the shooting,” Ghosh says. Today, only a portion of the boundary wall of the house remains. A construction worker on the site is surprised to know that the house he and his friends had demolished to build a swanky apartment was once a shooting location. “Nobody told us anything,” he says. No, he didn’t know about ‘Interview’. But Mrinal Sen’s name rang a bell.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Even Sourabh Das, the former owner of the house, is clueless. Born in 1975, he doesn’t know anything about the shoot of ‘Interview’, which had released in 1970. “My late parents would have known. I have heard of a Chhabi Biswas and Pahari Sanyal film being shot there,” says Das, who has relocated to a flat. In 2016, his three-storey house was given away to promoters. The small courtyard of the house, where the shot of Karuna Bandopadhyay searching for a pair of shoes that she had tucked inside a trunk was shot, is now covered with cement and sand.
 
 However, the Bandbox laundry outlet shown in the film still stands on Jawaharlal Nehru Road. In the film, Mallick was supposed to fetch from this store a suit to wear for an interview. Since the employees were on strike, he had to turn up for the interview in dhoti-kurta — which cost him dear. “We shot in front of the Bandbox store near  ,” recalls Mallick. Nothing much has changed from the 70s. Aman Bahri, the owner, says: “My father, Raman Bahari, would recall the shoot In the film, the logo mentions ‘dry cleaners’. Now, the logo has ‘cleaners, launderers and carpet cleaners’.” 
 
 Mallick is curious to know whether the store on Chowringhee, where he had smashed the mannequin, frustrated at not having got the job, is still there. A walk down Chowringhee reveals that the store has downed shutters. “I wish these places had been preserved for the future generation,” Mallick says. Thankfully, Sen’s masterpieces will remain forever.
 
 
