BENGALURU: In a first for the   in poll-bound Karnataka, a declaration of code of ethics and pledge to the party’s basic principles have been made mandatory for ticket aspirants.

 Though the party experimented with printed application forms in the 2013 assembly polls, aspirants this time have to fill a six-page application form that includes a 19-point code of conduct declaration and pledge agreement confirming their allegiance to the Congress.
 
 “I shall not take or give dowry. I shall practise and promote the goal of small family and population control. I shall be prompt in payment of taxes and party dues. I shall abstain from vulgar display of wealth,” are some of foremost code of ethics mentioned in the 19-point declaration.
 
 This comes at a time when the Congress has been batting for electoral reforms by submitting a report to the law commission, suggesting that tickets not be given to those who have been charged with rape or for demanding dowry.
 
 The aspirants need to submit a duly-signed pledge for an inclusive society that seems to have been drafted to counter the BJP’s pledge form. “I’m in agreement with basic policies of the Congress, especially relating to communal harmony, untouchability, prohibition, land reforms, social and economic justice and democratic socialism ,’’ it reads. The party has also sought a pro forma to check whether the aspiring candidate has any criminal record. 
 
 However, party leaders doubt whether the application form of each candidate will be thoroughly checked before the selection process. A functionary said: “The party will not be rigid about it. Ultimately, winnability is the most important criteria, though the information provided will be useful in the selection process.”
 
  
 
 
 The   office on Queens Road has been witnessing huge rush of ticket aspirants. The last date for issuing application forms has been extended till March 10. 
 
 Aspirants have been queuing up in front of party offices to get forms. The party sold 1,914 forms till March 5. The recipients include Yathindra, son of chief minister Siddaramaiah; Sunil Bose, son of PWD minister H C Mahadevappa; Santosh, son-in-law of law minister T B Jayachandra; Rajendra, son of MLA K N Rajanna. 
 
 The application fee has been increased from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000; SC/ST candidates will have to pay Rs 15,000. For ministers, it’s Rs 1 lakh. The party has collected close to Rs 50 crore so far.
 
 
