CHARMINAR: While the historic   attracts visitors from across the world, basic amenities have been neglected here much to inconvenience of people.

 
 Recently, mosque authorities revealed that no one had yet been appointed to monitor   footage at the Masjid.Now,besidesthelacunae in security, they are complaining about lack of facilities, such as washrooms both for the staff and tourists.
 
 Toilets at the mosque are in an unusable condition with the tiles broken and no doors in some stalls.
 
 “My sister stands outside the bathroom to ensure no one enters as there is no proper door. Even standing inside the stalls is quite a task withthetilesbroken anduneven,” said  , a regular visitor atthe mosque.
 
 Mecca Masjidisoneof the largest masjids in India and is a listed heritage structure. However, lack of maintenance and negligence has withered the structure.
 
 One of the mosque’s staff members said, “The elderly who visit the mosque regularly request for western commodes as they have knee pains. We never have an answer as we do not have the budget to even repair existing facility.”
 
 Mosque officials shared their helplessness in getting higher authorities to listen to their pleas.
 
 “About four years ago, the municipal corporation sanctioned ?99 lakh for construction and repair of toilets. At the same time, estimation for conservation of the mosque was also being carried out,”  , superintendent of Mecca Masjid said.
 
 “Since the re-construction of the toilets was already mentioned in the budget of municipal corporation, they did not include this in the ?8.48crorebudgetsanctioned for conservation,” he said, adding that neither the municipal corporation department nor the archaeology department, which is responsible for conservation, is taking up repair of toilets.
 
 The   (GHMC) zonal commissioner   said, “The washroomsinsideMecca Masjid are not maintained by us. We only get cleaning and minor repairs done during Ramzan. This could be under the archaeology department.”
 
