NEW DELHI:   accused the   government on Monday of repackaging old   schemes and marketing them as ‘game-changers’, while also charging it with creating a “fear psychosis” among rival parties and leaders and even the minorities.

 
  “The government claims to be a ‘game changer’. But it is really a ‘name changer government’ which has changed schemes launched since 1985 including under UPA. So   became PM Awas Yojana... Nirmal Bharat Abhiyan became Swachh Bharat. Basic Savings Account started in 2005 became   and   Rural Electrification scheme became Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana,” alleged leader of opposition in RS   while participating in the debate on motion of thanks to the President’s address.
 
 “As I had said earlier, if global tenders were to be floated for repackaging, BJP will be awarded the biggest tender. We were fools, we did not know how to package our schemes, forget about repackaging.
 
 And under this government, orders on schemes are issued later and a press conference held first,” he alleged.
 
  
  
 
 Charging the government with failing to deliver on all fronts, be it providing relief to farmers and the poor or inept handling of the Kashmir issue, Azad claimed BJP is only making empty claims and promises.
 
 Countering BJP’s charge linking UPA government to Rs 12,000 crore worth of scams, Azad referred to the acquittal in the 2G case as well as the failed   investigation to highlight how BJP had milked the two cases for political advantage. “How many times will you form governments riding on false corruption charges,” he asked the treasury benches.
 
 Also accusing the Modi government of polarising the country and creating a fear psychosis, Azad alleged that opposition party leaders were being treated as “potential terrorists” and their phones being tapped. 
 
 “No one today talks to me over phone because they say your phone is tapped,” he claimed. “You’ve divided Shias and Sunnis. Now, you are going after Muslim families and creating division between husband and wife by criminalising triple talaq,” he said.
 
 Azad said the new health insurance scheme would only benefit insurance firms and not the ordinary citizens, as has been the experience in the UK and the US. SP’s Naresh Aggarwal repeated the charge.
 
 TMC’s Sukhendu Sekhar Ray quoted a recent CIA report on India to allege that the country had performed badly on all major socioeconomic fronts.
 
 Ray said GST and demonetisation have broken the back of the common man. He dubbed the President's Address as “nothing but a compilation of 'Mann ki Baat' speeches of the Prime Minister”.
 
