AJMER/JAIPUR: It would be a   for the   with   fielding   and Congress nominating Raghu Sharma.

 As was predicted, the opposition party stuck to the strategy of declaring its candidates for the two seats only after the BJP did so. TOI had reported on January 4 under the headline ‘Congress deliberates on candidates for bypolls’ that the opposition party would field a non-Jat candidate if BJP nominates a Jat candidate for Ajmer parliamentary seat and that Raghu Sharma was being considered for the seat in that case. 
 
 This would be Sharma's second parliamentary election, as he had earlier contested the Jaipur Lok Sabha seat in 1999 but lost. Sharma was Congress state spokesman for a long time and is currently the party's state vice-president.
 
 Raghu will get edge in experience of politics in Ajmer as well as his team of youth in Kekri. He can swing the caste polarisation and knows local ground level Congress leaders and workers.
 
 Lamba, as son of late farmer leader Sanwar Lal Jat, is expected to get some sympathy votes. He is a well-known face in the Jat community in the Ajmer belt, largely because of his father. “Jat was a well-known and respected face among Jats and farmers of the Bhinai, Silora, Sarwar, Nasirabad and surrounding areas. Lamba, though not an active BJP leader, is also known to all as he would accompany his father at the Jat and farmers’ meetings across the region,’’ said a local BJP leader. However, his influence, admit local party leaders, is restricted to the rural parts of the district.
 
 Lamba will get sympathy votes mostly of the Jats and farmers of this region as still people in these villages remember his father as the leader who brought the Bisalpur drinking water to dozens of villages here. 
 
 The major profit to Lamba will be getting votes from the rural region. What might not work in his favour is that that he is away from the RSS lobby and therefore it is not certain about the RSS support to his campaign. Another factor is the anti incumbency wave in the district against state government and the important factor to worry is the polarisation of other castes in the district when jats are made important in these byelections. 
 
 
