New Delhi: As the Narendra Modiled government enters the last year of its term, BJP’s allies have started assessing their electoral prospects of contesting the 2019 General Elections as part of NDA.
 
  While   had announced last month that it won’t tie up with   in the next Lok Sabha polls,   is now aggressively pushing for its demands in  . After a meeting with party leaders on Sunday, CM N   has directed his party leaders to raise their demands strongly in both Houses of Parliament this week.
  
  Andhra Pradesh assembly elections will be held along with the General Elections next year and TDP would want to pin the blame for any disenchantment among voters on the Centre. Naidu has met PM Modi several times in the past few months.
  
  Finance minister Arun Jaitley and roads minister Nitin Gadkari too tried to soften TDP ire, but with ephemeral success. Naidu is demanding implementation of the promises made when Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh: reimbursement of about Rs 3,451 crore spent on Polavaram project, financial support for building the new capital at Amaravati and a railway zone at Vishakapatnam. Jaitley has held talks with TDP MPs in the past on their ‘special status’ demand and the funds to be allocated to the state. Another round of discussion is likely to take place soon to placate TDP.
  
  Also, BJP’s relations with PDP has often hit a rough patch with the latest rift being over the FIR against Major Aditya and 10 Garhwal Rifles for the killing of two men in Shopian. The Army had opened fire when their convoy was attacked by a mob. The two allies sparred in the J&K assembly over the issue.
  
  Even smaller NDA partners like RLSP, which is said to be miffed since BJP joined hands with JDU in Bihar, and Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by OP Rajbhar in UP have issues with the Centre. BJP is likely to accommodate SBSP in the Lok Sabha election and give it the ticket for the Salempur seat in UP. RLSP is likely to contest for its share of seats in Bihar as its pie may shrink with JDU now entering NDA.
  
  BJP has boosted its chances in assembly elections in the northeast by either poaching leaders from other parties or merging smaller regional parties with itself. But it won’t help NDA significantly in the Lok Sabha polls. Hence, BJP is also looking for new allies down South where DMK appears to be the only major party that would boost its prospects, provided it accepts BJP’s overtures. In such a scenario, BJP would like keep the NDA flock intact and search for new allies.
  
