NEW DELHI:   is working on a plan to issue letter of credit to contractors and suppliers, mainly small and medium entities, to facilitate time-bound payment of their dues, a move aimed at curbing any possibility of corruption faced by the vendors at the time of getting the bills approved for payment.

 The move is also expected to streamline supplies and completion of projects on schedule. The new method of payment will also ensure that the vendors get the payment from banks on time after fulfilling all the pre-determined obligations and procedures.
 
 “The timely payment will ensure that the funds of small and medium enterprises working with railways will be not be blocked due to delayed payments and red-tape,” said a railway official, adding that   with small funds at their disposal could not afford funds being blocked.
 
 The vendor or contractors opting for LCs, however, will have to bear a small charge (around 0.23%) as a banking transaction fee. “This is a very small amount in comparison with around 5-10% spent by the vendors or suppliers on making several visits to railway offices and on commissions,” said a railway official.
 
 The LCs, which will be valid for a period depending upon the nature of project or work, will be optional.
 
 Recently, railways has made it mandatory for contractors to maintain a database of all their workers and made liquidity a qualifying criteria for those bidding for projects in areas such as housekeeping and cleaning.
 
 Under the new policy, it was decided to separate the terms and conditions for contractors engaged in works such as construction of bridges, buildings and tracks from those relating to service delivery including housekeeping and consultancy.
 
 The policy has introduced a digital contract   which will be a database of all contractual workers engaged in providing services to the sector and carry their attendance data and salary details.
 
 A contractor bidding for a service would be disqualified if penalty has been levied three times in the last two years for violating labour laws.
 
 Anyone bidding for a contract in the Railways should have or should have access to liquid assets, lines of credit and other financial means to meet a cash flow valued at 5% of an estimated bid value of the bidder's total contract commitments. The bidder has to now submit an audited balance sheet certified by a chartered accountant along with the bid.
 
 "The new contract system will ease the registration process for bidders, promote competitiveness and help Railways save more on cost," said an official, adding that it would bring transparency and accountability in the system.
 
