The latest episode of   begins with   discussing some business with the family members. Dadi also comes in. The kids bring some letters and give it to Dadi. Naitik calls up   to ask if she received the letter from the dance academy regarding an important Republic Day event. She says no.

 Naira later gets to know that the letters are with Dadi.She wonders why did she take them. Meanwhile, Dadi gets a call from Kirti who asks her for a woman's number to help with her work. She says that Naksh is busy and can't help her. Dadi says she warned her not to take up work in the first place and now she cannot handle this. Dadi is sitting with Sulekha when she says that today's girls have gone out of place and they cannot handle work.
 
 She says that Kartik too should learn from Naksh. By letting Naira get her way, she says that the society will laugh at her. Naira is standing right outside the room when she hears this.
 Kartik and Aryan are together.Aryan is on the phone with somebody regarding some business.Kartik asks what is wrong and asks him why does he prefer working outside when they have a family business. Aryan gets angry and says that the business is only for Kartik and not him. He says he doesn't want any favours from anyone.
 
 Suvarna gets a call from her brother regarding Aryan. He says that Aryan called him and asked him why did he not educate him properly like others. Suvarna asks him what did he do with all the money. He says that he deposited everything in his account but he himself is unaware of it.
 
  
  
 There is some discussion regarding business going on when Kartik says he cannot help since he needs to help Naira. He suggests Aryan's name in this. Naira comes out and says that she will do it on her own. Aryan meanwhile comes and mocks Kartik by saying that instead of helping close a business deal he wants to help in his wife's dance event.
 
 Later Naira asks Kartik why did he do so and pass on the business decision. Kartik says that Aryan had waited too long and it was his time to be considered now. Naira respects his decision and says she is proud of him. He says they need to help out Aryan and convince the elders that Aryan can handle business just like Kartik.
 
 Suvarna comes to their room and asks if Kartik did this for Aryan. He says yes. She asks him to promise her that no matter what he will always treat Aryan like a brother and that the family relations aren't spoiled. He promises her and says that he wouldn't want anything to go bad. She leaves. Kartik and Naira get in the car and he leaves her at the dance academy. Somebody calls on her and asks her to come inside immediately as she is needed.
 
 
 
