CHENNAI: The helmets they wore muffled the expletives muttered underneath, but with raised hands mimicking machetes two men on motorcycles sped past each other on  , inches away from a head-on collision. The two, trying to beat the peak-hour rush, attempted to navigate past a roundabout on the street just off Anna Salai near the Nandanam signal, realising little that a roundabout is installed to slow down the traffic. But whether by poor design or almost nil road sense, navigating the city’s roundabouts pose a challenge for those who follow the rules.

 For instance, at the Muparappan Street roundabout, vehicles coming from Anna Salai cut inside the structure to take a right turn and join Venkatanarayana Road. This heightens the risk of accidents at the junction. The traffic wing posted a policeman on duty about two months ago, but motorists continued to cut inside the roundabout despite his presence.
 
 At the Pantheon Road junctions in Egmore — where traffic flows in from five arms — police are on the watch during peak hours. But once the men in uniform walk away, motorists, besides riding their vehicles, also ride their luck and bank on quick reflex to escape unhurt.
 
 According to  , faculty at the department of transportation engineering, IIT-Madras, poor knowledge of traffic rules and faulty design increase the risk of accidents at roundabouts in the city. “One reason is there are people who will always violate traffic rules. The other is improper design of roundabouts,” he said. Very few roundabouts in the city are built to slow down traffic before the road starts curling past the structure. There are no speed breakers, for instance, to force the motorist to rev down.
 
 When TOI visited the roundabouts in Egmore and  , it found vehicles zig-zagging past one another, ‘near-misses’ were common and in the confusion motorists vied to honk past one another. But instead of ensuring that motorists followed the rules, the city’s traffic enforcement authority blamed the regional transport offices (RTO). “RTO officials are responsible for traffic violations. They give licence to people without taking proper tests. We can only slap a fine, but the the RTO has to educate the motorists before they hit the road,” said a senior police officer.
 
 M Radhakrishnan, who works to promote better road sense and safety as part of Thozhan, an NGO, seconded the police officer. “In Western countries, a person is made to attend at least 50 to 60 hours of theory classes before he is even permitted to take a driving test. I know of cases in Chennai where drivers have obtained licence from an RTO without even appearing for a test,” he said.
 
 Sambath Kumar, an RTO officer in north Chennai, told TOI that it was unfair to blame the RTOs. “It is the duty of the public to adhere to road rules. But most drivers think it is unnecessary,” he said. The official said slapping fines on motorists could be a deterrent but only if motorists did not repeat the offence.
 
 
