Sunny Leone, the Bollywood diva, just announced the birth of twins. She is now a proud mother of not just one but three children. The proud parents took to social media to announce the birth of the twin Webers - Asher and Noah. Sunny also tweeted, “Just so there is no confusion Asher and Noah are our biological children. We chose   to complete our family many years ago and it’s now finally complete :) so happy!”. In fact, the actress had told a website in July last year that someday she may walk with a baby and everyone will be shocked. The reason she gave for this was that physical pregnancy might have been a little hard as she already had a plateful of things. 

 Sharing the news on her social media,   wrote, “God's Plan!! June 21st, 2017 was the day @dirrty99 and I found out that we might possible be having 3 children within a short amount of time. We planned and tried to have a family and after so many years our family is now complete with Asher Singh Weber, Noah Singh Weber and  . Our boys were born a few weeks ago but were alive in our hearts and eyes for many years. God planned something so special for us and gave us a large family.We are both the proud parents of three beautiful children. Surprise everyone!”
 
 
 
 Surrogacy is pretty simple. It is the process of renting a woman's womb to carry the baby full term. It can be done for a multiple of reasons, often due to the medical incapacity of one or both the partners. It is usually the father's sperm that is implanted inside the surrogate mother. However, with technology, it is also possible that the egg of the mother is fertilized with the father's sperm. Then, the resulting embryo is placed inside the womb of the surrogate mother. The first type is more common and traditional, while, the latter is known as gestational surrogacy.
 
 
 
 There are many reasons why a couple may choose to go for surrogacy. Also, today, many couples go for it by choice, especially in the entertainment industry. This could be done for aesthetic reasons or simply due to a lack of time. Medical reasons include:
 Infection in the womb
 Hysterectomy, which means removal or absence of womb
 A history of miscarriages
 Other health conditions, such as poor heart health of the mother, that make pregnancy difficult
 
 However, before a couple chooses to go for surrogacy, it must keep in mind certain guidelines.
 The age of the surrogate mother should be between 21 and 40.
 Any woman cannot rent her womb more than three times.
 The surrogate mother fitness levels should be checked, including her heart health, sugar levels, history of any hereditary diseases.
 Her mental health history should also be thoroughly examined
 Also, it is favorable if the mother has given birth to a healthy baby before.
 
 
 
 Surrogacy is legal in India but there are two caveats. Firstly, it prohibits couples of the same sex, unmarried couples, foreigners and single parents from opting for altruistic surrogacy. Only Indian couples who have been legally married for five years or more are allowed to opt for it. 
 
 
