NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s decision to charge former Union minister   with   to suicide has sparked a debate. The police has slapped sections 306 and 498A of IPC in the   case. The former relates to abetment to suicide and carries a maximum sentence of 10 years in jail while the second proviso is for marital cruelty and harassment by husband or relatives. It envisages a possibility that it may drive the wife to commit suicide and carries a maximum jail term of three years.

 
 However, according to experts, it is a third clause which may well prove to be the key to deciding Tharoor’s fate – section 113A of Indian Evidence Act.
 
 In the best of cases, proving abetment to suicide is an uphill task, given the absence of witnesses and the need to prove that the accused had an intention to drive his victim to end her life. A prosecutor TOI spoke to admitted that a conviction solely on abetment to suicide is rare because it becomes nearly impossible to link each action of an accused to the act of the wife committing suicide.
 
 “What the prosecution definitely does have in its favour right now is that the suicide happened within seven years of marriage. That’s when an inbuilt presumption against the husband kicks in and the courts are free to draw inferences against him without specific evidence. In such cases, a lesser degree of proof is needed as per section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act,” explained the prosecutor.
 
 Section 113A reads: “When the question is whether the commission of suicide by a woman had been abetted by her husband or any relative of her husband and it is shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage and that her husband or such relative of her husband had subjected her to cruelty, the court may presume, having regard to all the other circumstances of the case, that such suicide had been abetted by her husband or by such relative of her husband.”
 
 In a series of rulings, the Supreme Court has clarified the legal position on this subject. SC has laid down three ingredients for section 113A – the presumption against husband – to apply. These are: (i) that a woman has committed suicide; (ii) such a suicide has been committed within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage; and (iii) the husband or his relatives who are charged had subjected her to cruelty. On the existence of these three circumstances, the court may presume that such a suicide had been abetted by her husband or the relatives.
 
 But even then, it is up to the court to decide if it wants to make that presumption, and for that the prosecution has to still prove “some form of persistent obnoxious or offensive behaviour which drives the victim to commit suicide.”
 
 Last year, a bench of Justices R F Nariman and Mohan M Shantanagoudar drew a distinction between “harassment” in a marriage as something of a lesser degree than “cruelty” while hearing a case of suicide by a wife. SC stressed that for the charge of abetment to suicide to stick, a finding of cruelty is crucial and mere evidence of harassment can’t lead courts to conclude that there is abetment to suicide.
 
 “Delhi high court has clearly said that even in cases of suicide within seven years of marriage, the prosecution has to establish that abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in the doing of a thing. Without a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide, conviction can’t be sustained,” explained a sitting judge.
 
