NAVI MUMBAI: Residents of   node have complained about encroachment of footpaths and roads by open electric cables and distribution boards installed by  . 

 Responding to the complaints   has instructed MSEDCL to shift the cables and distribution boards from roads and footpaths to make room for pedestrians in order to ensure that safety measures are in place in a run-up to the impending monsoon.
 
 NMMC has given a deadline to MSEDCL to complete the work ahead of monsoon to avoid problems. A local activist has also written to the chief minister and chief secretary drawing their attention and citing the dangers involved in the issue. 
 
 “I have sent letters to all top officials and the CM to instruct MSEDCL for adopting the required safety precautions while laying cables and erecting distribution boards in public places,” said  , an activist.
 
 Residents allege that electric supply cables are strewn along the roads and footpaths in most of the sectors in Ghansoli and MSEDCL officials are hardly bothered about such laxity. 
 
 “Looking at the situation an accident seems to be imminent due to open cables and haphazardly installed distribution system. MSEDCL should taken utmost care while using the public space,” said Amit Singh, a local resident.
 
 NMMC deputy engineer Vasant Padghan last week issued a letter to his counterpart in MSEDCL asking him to shift all open cables from the roads, footpaths, gutters and drainage lines for the safety of residents. 
 
 “We can’t afford any untoward incident due to open electric lines. The cables should be taken underground and distribution boards moved to isolated places before the monsoon.”
 
  “As soon as I raised the issue at various levels, NMMC officials including the civic chief took cognizance and sent letter to MSEDCL for necessary action. Now pressure is being built up through CM and chief secretary to get the work done.”
 
 MSEDCL too acknowledged the issue and assured to take up the issue. 
 
 “We will soon initiate safety measures as per our guidelines for installing various power equipment and providing other related services to the consumers. Citizens’ safety will be our priority and we will leave no stone unturned,” MSEDCL public relations officer Vishwajeet Bhosale told TOI.
 
 
