NEW DELHI: Majority of the sitting   MLAs of Karnataka are likely to fight the upcoming electoral battle as the party high command and chief minister Siddaramaiah are stressing on the “winnability yardstick” in the selection of party candidates for next month’s Assembly polls.
 The Congress high command is planning to announce the candidates by April 15 as the  , the body that clears the candidates, is slated to begin three meetings from April 11, sources said.
  
  The   screening committee, headed by Madhusudan Mistry, is now in the process of scrutinising the list of shortlisted candidates for each constituency which has been sent to it by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee on the basis of recommendations from the District Congress Committees and observers.
  
  Siddaramaiah and the PCC team, fighting to buck the anti-incumbency burden, have favoured renomination of a large number of sitting Congress MLAs as they feel that their track-record and influence in the respective locality will make them qualify the “winnability” yardstick.
  
  “Don’t expect large-scale chopping of sitting Congress MLAs in the candidates list. Barring a few, a large chunk of them will be fielded to fight this time too while we also make scope for many new faces, especially the youth, to fight the election this time. That is the spirit of recommendation from the PCC,” said a party leader involved in the exercise. The Congress will also give tickets to the seven JDS rebels who helped the party win a third Rajya Sabha seat from the state last week. While the sons of Siddaramaiah and senior party leader Mallikarjun Kharge may make it to the list, the children of Congress leaders Veerappa Moily and Margarat Alva are learnt to be facing some stiff resistance from local leaders.
  
  Apart from the traditional focus on its affiliated social segments including OBCs, Muslims, Dalits, the Congress list this time will give some “additional focus” on fielding more candidates from the   community. This comes in the wake of the state favouring minority status to the Lingayat community –– to which BJP chief ministerial candidate Yeddyurappa belongs to –- and leaving the ball in the court of the central government.
  
  
