LUDHIANA: In the past three years, more than 5,000 applications were received for   plan sanction, but very few applied for completion. According to MC records, they received 5,313 applications for building plan approval since April 2015 until the end of March 31 this year in all the four zones. However, they received only 168 applications for the completion  .

 Building bylaws state that whenever somebody submits a building plan with the   to get permission for construction, then it is important for him to construct the building according to the approved plan, and then again apply for a completion certificate. MC officials visit the said building to certify that the person constructed the building according to the original plan. However, residents hardly care about applying for completion, and officials too do not bother about a follow-up.
 
 Maximum applications for building plan approvals were received in Zone D, where 2,673 people came for residential approval, and 257 came for commercial sanction. In the same zone, however, only 135 people came forward for the completion certificate. In Zone A, 932 applications were received for building plan approval, out of which 109 were commercial, 362 industrial, 458 residential, and three for other usage. But in this zone, only two applications were received for the completion certificate, and both were rejected by MC.
 
 In Zone B, total building plan applications were 960, out of which 25 were for commercial, 143 for industrial, and 792 for residential. Here again, only 29 applications came for completion certificate. In Zone C, 491 applications came for building plan approval, out of which 24 were commercial, 141 industrial, and 326 residential. But a mere two applications came for completion certificate.
 
 Assistant town planner (headquarters) SS   said: “It is the duty of residents to come for obtaining completion certificates, but people are in the habit of flouting norms, because most of the time, they do not construct a building on the basis of an approved plan.” He said lack of staff in the department did not allow them to visit every building for checking, but now they were planning to catch hold of the defaulters. “We are aiming to target at least 5,000 people for completion certificates shortly,” he added. 
 
 NEED FOR COMPLETION PLAN
 
 It is necessary for residents to get completion certificates for their buildings as soon as the outer structure is complete. Only then they can go for water, sewerage, electricity, and telephone connections. However, residents manage to get all connections without applying for completion certificates. Completion certificates can help in encouraging fire arrangements as well as reduce the risk of building collapse. The problem of building bylaws violations can also come down. According to fire officials, if MC officials start checking buildings and completion certificates become compulsory, then residents would also have to follow fire safety rules and get fire prevention instruments installed.
 
 
 
 
