BENGALURU: With assembly elections in   in less than three months, chief minister Siddaramaiah was expected to woo a wide swathe of voters with his last budget of this term. And that’s exactly what he did on Friday.

 Barring an increase in alcoholic beverage rates, there’s no direct pain for anybody. The focus of the budget was particularly on farmers, women and youth. In his 4-hour-15-minute budget speech — the longest in Karnataka — on Friday, Siddaramaiah used the terms ‘farmer’ and ‘farming’ 95 times, compared to 57 times in his budget speech last year. Understandable, considering farmers across the country have been seething for some time — hit by demonetisation, drought and low agricultural prices.
 
  
  
 
 Siddaramaiah reminded everyone he was an “ordinary farmer’s son”, and so understands the difficulties of a farmer’s household. Among the many agri-schemes, the most notable was, perhaps, a direct transfer of Rs 5,000 per hectare, subject to a maximum of Rs 10,000, to each
 
 farmer growing rain-fed crops. This, he said, would benefit 7 million farmers at an annual expenditure of Rs 3,500 crore.
 
 Crop husbandry and irrigation are two areas that have received among the highest increases in allocations —about 19% in revenue expenditure — for 2018-19.
 
 Water was, perhaps, the word that was used the most during the speech — 105 times compared to 64 last year — reflecting concerns of both farmers and those in urban areas, both of who have been suffering severe shortages.
 
 A   report recently listed Bengaluru among 11 global cities that are likely to run out of drinking water. But this concern was visible in terms of budgetary allocations only in irrigation. For water supply and sanitation, allocations are down both on the revenue and capital expenditure sides. The best hope for Bengaluru for now is the positive verdict by the   on the   water issue.
 
 CM: Will look to fill 1.5 lakh vacancies in govt depts
 
 All students will now be eligible for free bus passes, not concessional ones. Siddaramaiah said this will benefit nearly 20 lakh students.
 
 Girl students taking admission in government preuniversity, degree and postgraduation courses will henceforth not have to pay any fees. Among the major revenue expenditure items, education is the biggest beneficiary, with a 39% increase in allocation. Jobs was another priority. The CM said he would look to fill 1.5 lakh vacancies in various government departments.
 
 For Bengaluru, a number of much-needed projects are mentioned, including the initiation of 106km Phase 3 of   project, and several road, lake and drain projects. But it’s difficult to make out from the budget whether there’s any significant increase in allocations for the city. The few mentions of figures suggest that it hasn’t, and it is certainly not getting anywhere close to what it needs, considering that just the burning   lake issue requires an estimated Rs 750 crore.
 
 Despite the sharp increases in allocations for education, irrigation, crop husbandry and medical and public health, Siddaramaiah managed to ensure a revenue surplus, and also keep the fiscal deficit in control, at 2.5% of gross state domestic product, lower than the 2.7% in 2017-18. That’s much better than what his central government counterpart,  , did in the recent Union budget.
 
 The CM could do this partly because the state has been growing rapidly, much more than the national growth rate. But he also did it by cutting capital expenditures in a range of areas, including education, water, medical and public health, roads and housing. That does not bode well for the future.
 
