By Bhagyashree Kashyap

 NAGPUR: Due to abundance of technology today, ordinary human skill sets are bound to lose its charm. But what it cannot attain is the empathy and psychological aspects which we humans poses. So, I see the future of human resources (HR) in psychology and algorithms, said Sanjay Kumar, the vice-president, HR, L&T Metro, Hyderabad. He was invited as a guest speaker at a seminar organized by   (DMIMS) to highlight the boon and bane of digitalization in the field of human resources. The daylong event was organized at a city hotel on Friday and hosted various technical as well as non- technical lectures by professionals of the field.
 
 Presiding over the technical session, Kumar enlightened the audience about the vast digitalization of HR field and its future. He also talked about the invasion of our privacy by applications and the concept of ‘Gig Economy’, where the professionals and experts of the field change with every contract. “A large chunk of our population will become jobless by 2030 owing to the growing trend of Gig economy, and every other person will be a freelancer as opposed to working full time jobs. So it becomes imperative that we create our own livelihood to sustain in the world,” Kumar said.
 
 The programme was inaugurated by the assistant commissioner (department of labour) from Mumbai, Sunita Mhaiskar and the director of DMIMS Shiney Chib.
 
 Mhaiskar shed some light on the various laws and reforms enforced by state government to regulate the unorganized sector. She spoke in brief about the persisting laws and its necessity while dealing with the labourers and employees who are unbound by the employer-employee contract. “Since ages, the unorganized sector has been neglected and   is the only state to administer these rules strictly. These reforms are extremely important for the unorganized sector so that they get heard and no one can ignore their claim,” she said.
 
 While addressing its application, she said that these reforms do not always help you in every scenario. “There are times when both parties don’t budge from their claims. In such cases, your presence of mind and management skills come handy, because you cannot rely on these acts alone to deliver justice,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 
