PATIALA: Following the success of the first edition of ‘Panorama Punjab’ that provided an international platform for artists from across the globe to showcase their talent, promoters of the event have now decided to rope in the   for its second edition, the date of which is expected to be announced soon.

 Hosted in the backdrop of the Patiala’s historical Qila Mubarak, ‘Panorama Punjab’ was the first international arts forum organised in the city. During the inaugural edition, it had showcased 18 international artists. It had also seen participation of curators and directors of five major museums of the world.
 
 The event had also seen participation of ambassadors and consul generals of the Greek, Swiss and Canadian governments. The first edition was held at the magnificent Qila Mubarak on March 3-4 in Patiala and at Chandigarh on March 5. The governor of   had hosted a tea for the eminent guests who had come calling for the programme.
 
 Sarah Singh, founder director of ‘Panorama Punjab’, said to discuss future possibilities and collaborations for the second edition, she had been invited to the Victoria and Albert Museum in London where she would give a presentation on May 31. The audience will be a global mix of entrepreneurs, philanthropists and those from the field of arts. The name and theme of the forum is ‘Nexus India 2020’.
 
 Sarah said she would bring international attention to the contemporary face of Punjab by reaching out to a very specific group of people, who are looking for opportunities to know more about India and ways to engage in direct ways for investment and social causes, with a special interest in culture.
 
 After London, the founder director would visit the Swiss Arts Council to do a research residency in Switzerland with a focus on Zurich, Basel and Geneva during which she would hold meetings with architects, designers, curators, artists, and visiting institutions to develop partnerships for 2nd edition of  .
 
 Sarah said the Punjab government had taken exceptional interest in promoting the local culture and introducing the same to the global audience. She said such an exposure can have a huge impact on promotion and preservation of the local culture for which her team would go an extra mile by roping in the Swiss Arts Council and Victoria and Albert Museum in London for the second edition of the event.
 
 
