It took him two years to convince his ladylove to accept his proposal and take their relationship to the next level. Reality TV star  , who is currently seen on daily soap ' ', finally exchanged rings with sweetheart   on January 23. Wonder why he chose this date? Well, it’s on the same day two years ago that he walked away with the ' ' trophy. “The day is special for me as it’s on January 23, two years ago, that I met Yuvika after stepping out of the 'Bigg Boss'' house as the winner. I have been pursuing her for two years, but she wanted to be sure about us. So, I gave her time and showered her with all my attention and love.”

 However, the daily soap actor created enough drama just a week before the engagement. He says, “I picked fights with her a week before I planned to exchange rings with her. I involved her mother in the plan, too. I told Yuvika that I wanted to end the relationship and she cried. But I didn’t relent as I wanted to make the day special for her. So, on January 23, I sprang a surprise on her by getting our families together and proposing to her with the ring. I had asked her mother to get a ring for me. Yuvika had tears in her eyes when I popped the question. She took really long to accept my proposal (laughs).”
 
 What about the reports of a secret engagement between the two that was doing the rounds? “I had given her a promise ring on February 14 last year, which she accepted in the name of friendship. I guess, that’s how the word spread,” he replies.
 
 It will be a winter wedding for the couple and Prince’s family is already excited about welcoming the bahu-to-be. “They have started renovating our home in Punjab according to Yuvika’s taste and preferences. They are extremely fond of her,” he says.
 
 While there have been several examples of reality television relationships falling apart soon after the show is over, Yuvika and Prince’s is an exception. “Once a reality show couple steps out into the real world, they get confused. Also, they are often dissuaded by their friends to not take the relationship ahead for the sake of their careers. However, that wasn’t the case with me. I am confident that I will get work if I work hard. My marital status won’t hamper my career. Initially, I was confused about us, as she didn’t respond to my proposal inside the Bigg Boss house. After her eviction, I started bonding with others, including girls. When she entered the house again for a special task, she complained that I didn’t wait for her. I then told her that I am willing to wait for her till eternity if she gives me a definite answer. I don’t forge relationships to survive on reality shows. They are real. I am glad I realised that she is the one for me and now, we are all set to end up together.”
 
 So, what made him realise that Yuvika is the one for him? Prince replies, “Her caring attitude and the way she is with our families. She was by my side taking care of me when I fell ill. I was staying in a small apartment when she visited me to celebrate my Bigg Boss victory. Most people aspire for financially secure partners, but she values love above money.” 
 
 On her part, Yuvika adds, “Ours is quite a filmi story. His parents expressed the desire to have a bahu like me when he was inside the house. Later, they met my family with the proposal. However, my parents weren’t sure at that point as Prince was young, and they feared that he would walk away, eventually. After we became friends, he told my parents that he likes me and took their permission to spend time with me and understand me better. It took me a long time to accept his proposal. He made me believe in love again. He is popular on TV and could have easily used the relationship for publicity, but he quashed all my preconceived notions about him. He has seen me in my worst times, but has stuck around. He is younger to me by a few years, but he took it as a good sign (laughs). He told me that his mother is also older than his father.”
 
 
