JODHPUR/JAIPUR: Bollywood star   Khan, convicted for poaching blackbucks, is allegedly being given VIP treatment at the Jodhpur central jail.

 While the jail authorities have denied the charge, the way luxury cars, carrying Salman’s sisters, bodyguard and actress  , moved in and out of the jail premises throughout Friday indicated that the jail manual may have been violated.
 
 The actor’s sisters, Alvira and  , as well as co-star Preity Zinta were allowed to meet him inside the jail on Friday.
 
 Jail sources said his sisters remained with Salman for over an hour. Zinta was able to meet Salman in no time after she reached the city. As per the rules displayed on the jail wall, visitors can meet an inmate between 4 pm and 6 pm. But these timings were not followed in Salman’s case.
 
 The jail manual says that a maximum of three persons are allowed to meet an inmate and, in case of convicts, outsiders can meet him/her only once in 15 days. Salman has been in jail only for two days.
 
 Refuting the allegation, DIG  , superintendent of Jodhpur central jail, said, “I got an email from Preity Zinta at 9.30 am on Friday with the request to meet Salman. She was allowed to meet him for almost 20 minutes from 12.10 am. She was not allowed to go inside the ward of the inmate and was kept at a distance.”
 
 The 52-year-old actor’s bodyguard Shera was seen coming and leaving the jail premises several times on Friday. But it could not be ascertained if he too was allowed to meet the convict. Shera was seen carrying some packets while moving around the jail premises.
 
 “His bodyguard came to submit a few things like clothes, etc. on Thursday evening. He was not allowed to meet Salman,” Singh added.
 
 There were reports that senior jail officials were trying to make the film star feel ‘comfortable’ in the prison. “He is on high security following threats. He is also a high profile inmate. He has been confined to the ward where he is alone. If he stays here for long, we will ensure that a few more inmates stay with him as letting him alone in the ward is not that safe,” Singh added.
 
 
