NEW DELHI: The   has filed a loan fraud case against former promoter of   C Sivasankaran, his son and companies along with heads of two public sector banks — Melwyn Rego of Syndicate Bank and Kishor Kharat of Indian Bank — and former CMD of   M S Raghavan for allegedly cheating IDBI Bank of Rs 600 crore between 2010 and 2014.

 
 The former Aircel promoter’s alleged involvement in a high-profile bank case marks a reversal of roles for Sivasankaran, chairman of Siva Group of Companies, as far as the CBI is concerned as the entrepreneur, popularly known as “Siva”, is the main complainant in the   case where former telecom minister   and his brother Kalanithi are named.
 
 For the first time bosses of three different public sector banks, one of them retired, have been booked in a single corruption case. The action against Rego, Kharat and Raghavan, who all were with IDBI at the time of the alleged offence, is an extension of the sweep the agency has conducted by going after the brass of government banks who have been under fire for inefficiency and collusion with big debtors leading to a pile of non-performing assets (NPAs) and loss of lakhs of crore of taxpayers’ money.
 
  
  
 
 The CBI says loans worth Rs 322 crore and Rs 523 crore were given to Siva’s two offshore companies – Axcel Sunshine Limited (British Virgin Islands) and Finland-based Win Wind Oy respectively, which turned NPAs. The loss mentioned though is Rs 600 crore.
 
 Siva stunned political and business circles in 2011 with his allegation that Dayanidhi Maran, telecom minister in UPA, and Kalanithi “coerced” him to sell his stakes in his founding telecom company Aircel to Malaysian firm Maxis. The CBI chargesheeted Marans, accusing them of receiving a bribe of Rs 742 crore from the Malaysian company to whom they allegedly forced Siva to sell out.
 
 However, special CBI judge O P Saini in February 2017 discharged Marans stating the “entire case was based on the misreading of the official files, contradictory statements of the witnesses as well as speculation and surmises of C Sivasankaran”.
 
 The two serving top public sector bank officers, Kharat and Rego, were posted as MD-CEO and deputy MD, respectively, in IDBI Bank when the alleged fraud took place. Raghavan was CMD (now retired).
 
 Apart from these three, 12 other senior serving and retired officers of IDBI Bank, including general managers, DGMs, directors have also been booked by the CBI.
 
 With the latest FIR, registered last week on a reference from the CVC, number of CMDs/MDs of PSBs being probed, arrested or chargesheeted by the CBI in last the few years has gone up to seven. One among them was arrested: former CMD of Syndicate Bank Sudhir Kumar Jain in 2014. Among those chargesheeted include former CMD of Canara Bank R K Dubey and former CMD of Indian Bank M Gopalakrishnan. Gopalakrishnan was convicted this year by a Chennai court. 
 
 After registering the case, CBI teams raided the residences and offices of bank officials. CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal said that “the loans were granted to (Sivasankaran’s) companies by IDBI Bank at its highest decision-making level comprising senior-most management and even independent directors, disregarding the existing guidelines, instructions and procedures”.
 
 He added that various conditions were also relaxed or altogether ignored while grant of loan to Sivasankaran’s companies, which led to an alleged loss of approximately Rs 600 crore to the IDBI Bank and the public exchequer.
 
 CBI sources said they will soon question Raghavan, Kharat and Rego and Siva among others. 
 
 
