BENGALURU: The tussle over   and   continued on Thursday with leaders of both Congress and JD(S) meeting here to hammer out a consensus.

 The Congress was represented by AICC general secretary Karnataka in-charge KC Venugopal who held discussions with chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. The CM, before going to the meeting, told the media that Congress and JD(S) may release details of cabinet expansion and portfolio allocation on Friday.
 
 “We have almost finalized cabinet formation and portfolio allocation. Former PM HD Deve Gowda, Venugopal and I will hold another round of discussions before going public with the details,’’ Kumaraswamy said.
 
 The CM rubbished reports about discontent between JD(S) and Congress over portfolio allocation. “After several rounds of discussions, we’ll arrive at a decision with everyone’s consensus,” he added.
 
 Prior to the meeting with Kumaraswamy, Venugopal met senior Congress leaders about the portfolios the party should get. According to sources, the Congress is said to have agreed to give finance to JD(S) and get home, power, revenue, Bengaluru development, cooperation and revenue, besides a few others.
 
 Congress sources it was also proposed that with just 22 portfolios of the total 34-member cabinet, the party should give an opportunity to MLAs who have won 3-4 times, but were not inducted into the cabinet. They include Basavana Bagevadi MLA Shivanand Patil, Kundgol MLA C S Shivalli and Humanabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil, Shantinagar MLA N A Haris. 
 
 "All of them have been winning election after election and got nothing in return. Neglecting their claims may become difficult for the party," said a senior Congress leader. 
 
 Bengaluru development portfolio 
 
 The city development portfolio is expected to come to the Congress and there are four claimants. Former ministers KJ George, Ramalinga Reddy, R Roshan Baig and Krishna Byregowda are lobbying for it. Rajya Sabha MP Ghulam Nabi Azad is reported to have told JD(S) leaders that the Congress had bagged the maximum number of 14 seats in Bengaluru, while the coalition partner secured just two and therefore it should get the Bengaluru development portfolio. 
 
 
