GURUGRAM; MCG and   will now have new chiefs after the state government carried out a bureaucratic reshuffle on Thursday, ordering the transfers of 11 IAS and four Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officers.

 While Panipat’s deputy commissioner Chander Shekhar Khare, an IAS officer, has been appointed the new Huda administrator, HCS officer  , the incumbent Gurugram chief of the urban development body, is the new MCG boss.
 
 With the reshuffle, GMDA now has a full-time CEO as V Umashankar has been relieved of the additional charge of MCG commissioner. “I enjoyed my tenure in MCG and did whatever best I could. Now I can fully concentrate on GMDA,” Umashankar told TOI.
 
 Another IAS officer transferred from Gurugram is Pradeep Dahiya, who was Gurgaon’s additional deputy commissioner-cum-CEO of District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and secretary of Regional Transport Authority (RTA). He has been sent to Charkhi Dadri in the same capacity, relieving Ajay Singh Tomer who is the district’s new deputy commissioner.
 
 Manoj Kumar (HCS), who is currently an officer on special duty in the office of Gurugram’s divisional commissioner, has been relieved of the additional charge of ADC-cum-CEO of DRDA and RTA secretary in Rewari.
 
 Meanwhile, Rohtash Singh Kharb, deputy commissioner of Yamunanagar, has been appointed special secretary (Home-I department), relieving Chander Shekhar of the charge.
 
 Likewise, Sumedha Kataria, deputy commissioner of Kurukshetra, has been transferred to Panipat in place of Khare. Kataria has been replaced by SS Phulia, who’s posted as state project director of Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojna Parishad.
 
 Ashok Kumar Meena, director and special secretary of industrial training and employment department, has been posted as deputy commissioner of Hisar, replacing Nikhil Gajraj. The latter has been appointed the new administrator of Huda, Faridabad, as well as the district’s additional director of urban estate.
 
 Gauri Parasher, deputy commissioner of Panchkula, has been made the director and special secretary of the social justice and empowerment department, relieving Sanjeev Verma of the charge. And Vijaykumar Siddapa Bhavikatti, deputy commissioner of Charkhi Dadri has been sent to Yamunanagar district in the same capacity.
 
 Similarly, Ram Kumar Singh, ADC-cum-CEO of DRDA and secretary, RTA, Ambala, has been made the zonal administrator of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board in Gurugram, relieving Ashok Kumar Garg.
 
 Other officers transferred included Parth Gupta, additional commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Faridabad and CEO of Faridabad Smart City Ltd. He has been sent to Kaithal as ADC-cum-CEO, DRDA, and scretary, RTA, replacing Shakti Singh.
 
 
