NEW DELHI: A 24-year-old man suffocated to death after a building housing several   in   was  . The blaze started from an air-conditioning unit and spread through three floors. It also damaged two adjoining buildings in the congested locality. It took the fire department 25 tenders to control the blaze.

 Around 2.15pm, a worker at one of the shops noticed smoke coming out of an air-conditioner and alerted others. They tried to douse the flames with sand and water, but the fire spread to other shops on the floor.
 
 It took the fire tenders time to reach   as the road was choked due to illegal parking and a bhandara. Traffic police challaned vehicle owners and towed away a few cars to allow the fire engines to enter. Even the bhandara was dismantled.
 
 There was little or no space between the buildings in the narrow lane due to rampant commercialisation and unauthorised constructions forcing the firemen to park their vehicles on the main Chandni Chowk road and use pipes to ferry water to the building. The blaze was controlled around 3.30pm after which the fire department began its cooling operation.
 
 Officers said that the fire spread as the shopkeepers had stocked a large amount of inflammable materials, including boxes and cardboard, in the building. “The markets are regularly packed beyond capacity and lanes are choked with cars of shoppers and commercial vehicles. Electricity lines dangle dangerously with many people drawing power illegally. We have been alerting the market associations about this for a long time,” said a fire officer.
 
 “Providing easy access to fire engines is an urgent need in the   as it’s a virtual tinderbox and any small fire can become an inferno,” said a fire officer.
 
 Adi Jain, the owner of the shop from which the fire began, said that precaution had been taken in keeping the cardboard boxes. He said the fire spread due to someone’s negligence. “The blaze would have spread further had the fire engines not arrived in time. The incident could have been prevented if there were more safety equipment in the building,” he added.
 
 Shopkeepers said that there are more than 50 shops in the building, but none of them had adequate fire fighting equipment resulting in the blaze spreading further.
 
 “We evacuated the employees while informing the fire department. We have time and again insisted that shop owners ensure that entry and exit routes remain free,” said  , president of bullion and jewellers association.
 
 The deceased, Rohit, was an employee of a shop owned by one Kamal. He had gone back to the shop to get his belongings when he got trapped. Eyewitnesses said he was last seen talking over the phone before falling unconscious. By the time he was pulled out, Rohit had suffered burns and was gasping for breath. He was taken to a hospital where he died during treatment.
 
 Rohit’s family, who stay in Champaran district of Bihar, have been informed about the incident and his body would be handed over to them after autopsy. A case of causing death due to negligence has been registered, DCP (north) Jatin Narwal said.
 
 
