PUDUCHERRY: The Puducherry state   board and the cabinet have recommended an   plan outlay of Rs 7,530 crore for the financial year 2018-19 for the Union territory. A decision to this effect was taken during the board meeting chaired by lieutenant governor   Bedi in the presence of chief minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues, among others.

 Addressing the meet,   sought Narayanasamy and chief secretary Ashwani Kumar to evolve a vision   for Puducherry and Karaikal regions for the next 10 years. The document must list out annual targets in areas of drinking water, sanitation, public health, skill development, agriculture, tourism, renewable power, education and all other priority sectors with a roadmap for finances, she said. 
 
 She said the Union territory managed to fulfill its financial commitments in the last financial year but lagged behind in certain essential areas like civic amenities and rural care. She listed out certain areas that had huge scope for generating additional revenue but were not tapped to their full potential in the last financial year by the government. “Hence we need to correct that this year,” she said.
 
 She urged the cabinet to meet more often and take calibrated risks to address policy and financial issues. The elected members must communicate with the people and enlighten them on their role in improving sanitation, safety, skills and public health, besides launching sustainable agricultural practices. “This will save resources and enable more quality service to the people,” she said.
 
 Bedi assured that she will raise a series of issues pertaining to Puducherry at the ensuing governors’ conference in June this year. The issues cover including Puducherry in the 15th central finance commission, seeking the Union government to bear the pension expenses (as in Delhi) and extending 100% funding for all centrally sponsored schemes (as in other Union territories).
 
 She said she will also insist the Union government to waive Puducherry’s legacy   to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore and to set up a bench of the Madras high court in the Union territory of Puducherry.
 
