Dindigul: Normal life was affected and business was disrupted as various trade associations and political outfits staged a protest against a group of forest officials for beating up of some touring hotel employees in Kodaikanal town , recently.

 About 90 percent of the shops and eateries remained closed on the day in what was apparently a reply to the alleged forest officials’ action against the hotel workers. The situation has given a hard time to the tourists spending time at the princess of hills, forcing many to drive longer distances only to locate an eatery or a shop.
 
 “Apart from a few tea shops, all others remained shut throughout the day. It was unusual in Kodaikanal. Only those who have booked online were given accommodation at hotels and resorts,” said J Chinnakalai, a cab driver from Madurai.
 
 Thousands of persons took part in the protest and the subsequent rally starting from Kalaiarangam and ending at Moonjikkal. Local residents also staged a protest.
 
  A Abdul Kani Raja, secretary of Kodaikanal hotel and resorts owners association, said the hartal was a success with all the shop and hotel owners pulling the shutters down as token of protest against the foresters’ action.
 
 “We have given a day time to the forest minister to act against the district forest officer and Mannavanur range officer.
 
  They should be transferred. Otherwise, we will intensify the protest. A decision on this would be made in the meeting tomorrow,” he said.
 
 The alleged attack on the local tourists came to light on February 14, when nine of the 12 of injured, were admitted in a hospital in Kodaikanal for treatment. However, forest official denied having any role in the attack. Kodaikanal DFO on Sunday told reporters that the tourists encroached on the reserve forest area and setup a campfire. Following this, they were fined and also booked for attacking the forest personnel.
 
 Meanwhile, three eco-watchers were dismissed from voluntary work and a forest guard and a forester were transferred on Sunday.
 
 
