Nagpur: This summer is proving to be deadly for residents living near the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) dumping ground in Bhandewadi which is continuously on fire since the temperatures started shooting up. According to the staffers of NMC’s fire and emergency services department, around four to five fire tenders are being sent to Bhandewadi every day. “Fire-fighting operations are being carried out day and night to ensure that the fire doesn’t spread,” they said. Since last two weeks, TOI received calls from residents of different localities, some staying even as far as 5-6 kilometres away from the dumping ground. They were complaining about the severe air pollution and health ailments. On Thursday, TOI visited the spot and found that a large number of heaps of solid waste spread over different locations were smouldering. Apart from leading to massive air pollution with burning of all kinds of municipal solid waste including plastic, the fires pose a serious threat to human lives. At one location, TOI spotted a high-tension wire very close to burning heaps of garbage. “Polythene bags often spread fire when they flow in air. We fear that if a burning polythene comes in contact with the HT line, it can lead to a serious mishap,” said a resident. At another location, some houses were hardly 10 meters away from the burning waste. The smoke released from the fires is so thick that within five minutes it becomes difficult to breathe. “Though we are constantly exposed to smoke, its intensity has increased in the last few weeks. Our rooms are filled with it, we are unable to sleep because of the stench. Everything looks hazy,” the residents said. While TOI was interacting with the residents around 7pm, a motorist met with an accident after colliding with another vehicle. “Accidents have become very frequent as there is hardly any visibility due to the thick layer of smoke,” said a motorist. Anil Tripathi, who stays around 2 kilometres away from the dumping ground, said that a dense layer of smog engulfs the surrounding areas in the night, making it impossible to breathe. “The smoke is accompanied by a strong smell. Since weeks we are facing breathlessness,” he said.  Since the last two days, residents living around the periphery of the ground have been staging protest at Bhandewadi, demanding immediate action from the civic body.  NMC officials said that the civic body is under the process of implementing bio-mining for clearing the waste lying at Bhandewadi.  Since last three years, TOI has been reporting on the frequent fires at the dumping ground. The unregulated trash burning is endangering urban lives by pumping cancer-causing gases into the atmosphere. Apart from significantly increasing the levels of particulate matter, various toxic gases like dioxins and furans are emitted by burning plastic material. Experts say these gases are believed to cause cancer. 