MUMBAI: The first academic council meeting with the new   vice-chancellor,  , scheduled on May 5, is likely to take a call on allowing city colleges to conduct the first and second year exams at their level. 

 A policy of common time-table for these exams, introduced by former V-C   in 2016, was one of the reasons for the chaos and delay in announcement of results, claim principals.
 
 Around 75 principals from affiliated colleges met the new V-C on Wednesday, his first day in office, to congratulate him. Among other concerns raised by principals, conducting the first and second-year exams at college level was a prime one. The issue is also on the list of agendas for the academic council meeting this week.
 
 "The first and second year exams were conducted by colleges prior to 2016. Colleges were asked to complete their exams by mid-March, before the university's exams commence in March end. But, the last two years, it has been chaotic. The university is struggling to avoid clashes between its own exams. Exams are being conducted in two slots, many of them concluding even as late as May first week. As a result, teachers are busy with supervision work for the whole day, thereby delaying assessment work," said TA Shiware, chairman,  .
 
 At a recent meeting with higher education minister Vinod Tawde, the principals had put forth their demand to allow colleges to conduct the first and second year exams at their level. "Though the idea was to bring about uniformity and transparency, the purpose was not achieved. The question papers were set by the university, but the assessment was still being done at college level. Our junior college schedule, too, goes haywire with this arrangement," said another principal.
 
 In 2016, Deshmukh introduced the system with the idea that students' performance in all three years should be assessed on the premise that it was not being done uniformly by colleges.
 
 Meanwhile, the principals also sought appointments of registrar, director (examinations and evaluations), deans for each of the faculties, and pro-vice-chancellors at the earliest. "An advertisement for the director (examinations) was released almost eight months ago, but nothing was done after that. Full-time appointments to important posts are a must," said the principal.
 
 
