NEW DELHI: While   switched tactics over the bill to criminalise triple talaq in the  , by coming out strongly against the legislation in the upper House,   felt it has succeeded in focusing on contradictions within the main opposition which has sought to shed its pro-minority tag.

 The line-up in the Rajya Sabha showed Congress in the same ranks as practitioners of hardline “secular” politics such as the Left, Trinamool Congress, RJD, SP and BSP, said a senior BJP leader. Going by the company it is seen in, Congress is back in the same corner of the political board, despite party chief Rahul Gandhi’s temple visits during the Gujarat election. Reacting to a controversy over Rahul’s name being entered in a register for “non-Hindus” at the Somnath temple, Congress had said that the leader is a sacred thread wearing (janeudhari) brahmin. The soft Hindu line was seen to have delivered when Congress increased its tally and ran BJP close on several seats.
 
 But the BJP camp feels that Congress has been forced to openly oppose the bill in the Rajya Sabha, and this once again proves its reluctance to annoy a conservative Muslim vote-bank as it also remains susceptible to pressure to adopt positions the saffron party says smack of appeasement of minority votes.
 
 Congress had not voted against the clauses of the Muslim   (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill 2017 when it was passed in the Lok Sabha. However, it has demanded that the bill be referred to the select committee as it has objected to the clause of the bill criminalising triple talaq and was now not shying away from a vote, if necessary.
 
 Government sources said there will be a fresh bid to table the bill in the House on Thursday, knowing full well that it lacks numbers and that the bill might well be referred to a select committee. “But we want Congress to be exposed more when it speaks during the debate over the bill,” a party leader said.
 
 Hitting at Congress on its “minority” fault-line, feel BJP party functionaries, drives home the message that the main opposition is similarly vulnerable on issues like checking illegal migration, tackling radicalisation and dealing with Pakistan. “Let Congress explain why it is finding excuses to delay the triple talaq bill,” said law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad.
 
