CHENNAI:  's midfield is full of seasoned players like Raphael Augusto, Dhanpal Ganesh and Thoi Singh. But the unheralded 20-year-old   has proved himself with stellar performances, the highlight being his match-winning show against   last week. The central midfielder, who had joined Chennaiyin last season, intelligently utilises free space to stretch the opposition defence and shows a lot of game awareness by anticipating balls and harrying the opposition with his off-the-ball runs. He has also become Chennaiyin's dead-ball specialist and such has been his consistency that coach   has already played him in nine matches.

 However, Thapa doesn't want to go overboard with his success. "Last season, I had joined the squad late and played only one match under  . I never thought that I would get so many chances as a 20-year-old, especially when we have so many experienced players in the side. But then, I never think like a 20-year-old and play second fiddle to the seniors on the field. If I do that, I will not be able to handle the hard tackles and pressure. I try to visualise goals, create moves. The coach has given me complete freedom to play my natural game. That's why I played so well," Thapa said at the end of Chennaiyin's practice session on Thursday.
 
 Thapa is only 5ft 6in with a lean physique but he hardly gives the ball away and wins most of his aerial duels. He says staying patient helps him to make an impact in the game. "I feel football is about patience and how composed you can be in pressure situations. If you are nervous, you will release the ball in a hurry. So you cannot think clearly, resulting in taking a wrong decision and making a wrong pass. Eventually, you lose your confidence. I have learnt from the foreigners how they hold the ball before making a pass. It has made a big difference in my game. But then, I want to develop my physique too. It will help me in handling harsh challenges," Thapa asserted.
 
 Thapa has already made his debut for India and hopes his consistent performances in   will help in cementing a place in  's side. "In Chennaiyin, I am training under coach John Gregory. Both Constantine and Gregory are Englishmen and their football philosophy is quite similar. So I don't get confused much. We have already qualified for 2019   Asian Cup and there is still one more match against Kyrgyzstan (in March). I hope to play that match since we have already qualified. It will help in boosting my confidence ahead of next year's tournament," said Thapa.
 
