CHENNAI: Most of the power companies that signed MoUs at the 2015  ' Meet (GIM) are not interested in investing in Tamil Nadu as they want to sign power purchase agreements (PPA) and do not want to come through the tender process. The government had signed MoUs worth 1.07 lakh crore at the GIM to increase the installed power generation capacity by 15,850MW. 

 "Nearly 1 lakh crore investments under energy department alone were promised at the 2015 GIM. But they want to sign PPAs so that the power tariff will be high. Tamil Nadu does not want power at high cost any longer as we have surplus power," said  , while replying to opposition leader   in the assembly on Thursday. 
 
  wants all the investors to get through the tender process. "As a fall-out of severe competition in the tender process, power tariff has drastically fallen in recent years for solar projects. We are able to get new investors in solar power sector at 2.40 per unit. But through PPA, the tariff will be not less than 5 per unit. No state will be ready to woo investors at such high cost," a senior Tangedco official told TOI. 
 
 Out of the total proposed capacity, 4,250MW was thermal projects. Tamil Nadu is not in need of new power projects at present, as the state's demand has not touched 15,000MW in the last one year. "We are not putting TN's high-cost private power generation units to use, as their tariff is high. We are able to source cheaper power from the exchange at less than 4 per unit. There are days when we get it at 2 per unit. No state is signing PPA for power projects at present," said the official. 
 
 As per GIM agreements, solar and wind power company Suzlon was to invest Rs 15,500 crore for setting up a 2000MW solar power across Tamil Nadu. Similarly, another green power company Gamesa was to invest 8,500 crore for a 1,000MW solar park. 
 
 "Some of the companies which signed MoUs have either participated in the past tenders or are ready to participate in tenders in March. They have quoted tariffs lower than 3 per unit. We are also looking at our own long-term investment projects," said the official. 
 
 The tender route is not only for renewable power projects but also for thermal projects. "We recently signed a   for 1,500MW for its Talabira project at 3.10 per unit, which is more or less the tariff we get through tenders," he said. 
 
 
