NOIDA: A   girl allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a window grille after a spat with her elder sister over a television remote on Tuesday morning. According to police, Manushi Rawat locked herself up in a room and tied her mother’s scarf around her neck before hanging self from the window grille.

 Her grandmother found her lying unconscious after a while and rushed her to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Manushi was a Class V student of a private school in Sector 33, Noida. Her parents were not at home and had gone to work when the girl took the extreme step.
 
 Manushi lived with her elder sister Sonam Rawat (12) and parents — Praveen Rawat and Anju Rawat — on the ground floor of a four-storey building. Praveen’s two brothers live on the first and the second floors while his mother stays on the top floor of the building.
 
 Praveen is a driver while Anju works as a non-teaching staff in a private school in Sector 132, Noida.
 
 According to neighbours, the children were watching television around 8.30am after their parents left for work. “Sonam kept on changing TV channels even though Manushi told her that she wanted to watch one of her favourite serials. Enraged at this, Manushi snatched the remote from her elder sister, went into a room and locked herself up from inside,” a neighbour on condition of anonymity said.
 
 After some time, her grandmother Shanti Devi came down from the top floor and enquired about Manushi, to which Sonam replied that she had gone to the room after quarrelling with her. Shanti found the room locked from inside, and kept banging on the door till it opened. When she found the young girl lying unconscious on the floor with a scarf tied around her neck, Shanti raised an alarm and rushed Manushi to Metro Hospital in Sector 12 with the help of relatives and neighbours. However, Manushi was declared brought dead.
 
 Man Singh, a security guard in the sector, said he rushed to the spot when he received the information on Tuesday morning. “I found Manushi lying unconscious. She was rushed to a hospital. She was an amiable and friendly kid,” he said. Manushi’s parents returned home after receiving the information about her death.
 
 Kailash Chandra Sharma, a sub-inspector at Sector 24 police station, said, “We are investigating the case and examining the sequence of events. The family said it took place while the children were playing,” Sharma said.
 
 Rajiv Kumar Singh, CO Noida-II, said the body had been sent for autopsy. “We received information from sources that the children had quarreled over a television remote. The family members have not commented on this. The girl had marks around her neck. We will investigate the matter if we find something suspicious in the autopsy report,” he said. 
 
 The family has not filed a police complaint yet.
 
 
