DEHRADUN: Persistent smoke caused by raging forest fires since the past few days has led to a rise in cases of respiratory and eye ailments among hundreds of villagers in  , Nainital and   districts.
 
  “Our areas are covered with thick smoke and visibility is down to almost zero. The smoke is affecting everybody’s health,” said Anil Negi, pradhan, Kaljikhal village in Pauri. He added that most primary health centres in the hills were not equipped to handle the situation.
 
 
  
  
  Meanwhile, health officials sought to downplay the situation claiming that only two patients in three districts have been admitted to hospitals with asthma-related problems.
  
  According to Pauri chief medical officer (CMO) Dr VS Jangpangi and CMO of Bageshwar Dr JC Mandal, only two patients from each of the two districts had been admitted to government facilities and were being given concentrated oxygen. However, the CMO of another district requesting anonymity told TOI, “We are getting a lot of cases related to asthma and eye problems that are being triggered due to smoke caused by forest fires. Toddlers, the elderly and people with respiratory problems are being affected the most.”
  
  Many villagers said they were relying on traditional methods to keep smoke at bay. Jagmohan Singh from Dangi village in Pauri said that his village is around 27 km from district hospital Pauri and therefore, the villagers are relying mostly on traditional methods to treat themselves.
  
  “I am a patient of asthma and since the past four days, I am suffering from severe throat infection. We are not being able to step out of our houses because of the smoke and we can’t even sit inside our houses. We are drinking lots of butter milk and keeping our face covered.”
  
  The situation was grim in villages in Kumaon too. In Bageshwar, villagers said they were grappling with scanty health facilities.  , a social worker from Sirkot, Bageshwar, said, “In the absence of adequate medical facilities in our area, patients from Bageshwar district are now being referred to Haldwani.”
  
  Meanwhile, head of forest force, Jai Raj, said that the situation will improve in the coming days as forest fires are under control now.
  
  “The situation is under control, especially in places where the entire district administration and gram panchayat is working to extinguish fires,” he said.
  
  The raging forest fires in the state have already gutted 2,668 hectares of forest land in 1,241 fire incidences. Data released by the forest department on Thursday pegged the losses at Rs 54.28 lakh.
  
  Maximum loss of 1,833.7 hectares was reported from Garhwal and Shivalik forest regions, followed by 711.03 hectares forest land getting affected in 247 fire incidences in Kumaon region. While forest area under the wildlife administration recorded a total loss of 124.13 hectares in 51 fire incidents till date. 
