 MLA Abu Taher Khan’s personal   had to open fire on Thursday as armed people tried to attack him — and Khan — while they were on their way to meet two injured Congress workers at Amtala Rural Hospital in Murshidabad’s Nowda. The cop, Jawar Khan, fired once in the air but when it wouldn’t deter the attackers, he shot once more injuring one Abdur Sattar Sk.

 The Murshidabad incident came close on the heels of aperson dying and another seriously getting injured when crude bombs exploded at Rezinagar’s Teghori-Najirpur, also in the same district. According to a source, the incident took place at the house of Jahiruddin Mollah, a Trinamool panchayat samiti member. The deceased was later identified as Yar Ali Sk. Police refused to confirm or deny the allegations.
 
 Congress state president Adhir Chowdhury will stage a demonstration at Berhampore on Friday to protest against the “Trinamool Congress-police nexus that had led to the increasing violence against opposition party workers”.
 
 The murder of Trinamool’s area president Sophiar Rehman (52) in Sashan’s Falti-Beliaghata and subsequent lynching of his assailant Razab Ali in a Trinamool victory rally on Taki Road on Wednesday evening kept the district on boil a day after.
 
 Rehman’s widow Rupjan Bibi, also a Trinamool gram panchayat candidate, alleged Trinamool workers and police failed to save his husband’s life. “My husband was a wellknown Trinamool leader in Falti-Beliaghata area and he was selected five times as an anchal (area) president. But a section of local Trinamool leaders wanted him out. My husband had led the uncontested victory of the Falti-Beliaghata gram panchayat after which his rivals had plotted the murder,” she alleged.
 
 Rupjan also said she was in Wednesday’s victory rally where Ali pounced on Rehman from behind all of a sudden and stabbed him repeatedly to death. “Ali was given money and liquor before being taken to the rally. Nobody in the rally initially came to rescue him. I believe that more persons were involved and some of them were also present at the rally to eliminate the killer. Police didn’t even try to rescue Ali. If the killer was taken to hospital in time, he could have named the real culprits,” Rupjan alleged.
 
 Abhijit Banerjee, ASP, North 24 Parganas, however, said, “The exact motive behind the murder couldn’t be ascertained. With the lynching of the accused, two separate murder cases have been initiated.” He said he didn’t get any complaint about ‘police negligence’.
 
 State food minister and the district Trinamool chief Jyoti Priya Mallick on Thursday met Rehman’s family members. The minister also assured them to provide any kind of legal assistance they needed.
 
