PATNA: Youths in saffron clothing thronged the city streets, chanting slogans like ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Jai Bajrangbali’ as   was celebrated amid religious fervour and gaiety here on Sunday.

 Altogether 32 shobha yatras originated from various places of the city and passed through Frazer Road, Kotwali police station, Exhibition Road and Mahavir Mandir before culminating at Dak Bungalow crossing. The yatras were received by Shri Shri Ram Navami Shobha Yatra Abhinandan Samiti. Chief minister Nitish Kumar also participated in Ram Navami celebrations organised at Dak Bungalow crossing. The square had been beautifully decked up with lights for the occasion.
 
 Devotees could be seen dancing to the tunes of devotional melodies. Various food stalls had also been set up for the devotees. Some people, out of goodwill, had set up stalls distributing free drinks. Some, who had participated in the processions, were seen sitting on pavements to take rest.
 
 Sarita Kumari, a graduation student, had come all the way from Boring Road to attend the celebrations at Dak Bungalow. “My friends and I had seen the preparations for the celebrations and decided to attend it. We live in a hostel, so we made it a point to attend and celebrate Ram Navami with a large crowd,” Sarita said.
 
 Septuagenarian Manoj Kumar said over the years the celebrations have become grander. Manoj had brought along four of his grandchildren at Dak Bungalow crossing to enjoy the celebrations. “I plan to visit the aarti at Mahavir Mandir afterwards,” he said. 
 
 Hundreds of devotees turned up for the aarti that was conducted at Mahavir Mandir near Patna Junction at 8pm. More than four lakh devotees turned up at the city’s famous Mahavir Mandir since last midnight to seek blessing of Lord Rama.
 
 Acharya Kishore Kunal, secretary of Mahavir Sthan Nyas Samiti, said the crowd of devotees increased manifold this year. “The celebrations received a good reception as it was Sunday and the weather was pleasant,” Kunal said.
 
 Devotees also thronged the eight counters that had been set up at Mahavir Mandir for the sale of Naivedyam laddoo. Kirtans narrating the story of the Ramayana were organised at various temples across the city.
 
 
