PATNA: Traffic will be restricted on several routes in the city on   on Friday. According to the traffic plan released by the district administration on Wednesday, no vehicle will be allowed on the western flank of Fraser Road from Dak Bungalow roundabout to Children Park near Gandhi Maidan from 7am till the main function is over as it will be reserved for the movement of governor, chief minister and their relatives along with other VVIPs.

 Entry of vehicles in SP Verma Road from New Dakbungalow Road will also not be allowed. The road leading to New Police Lines from Kotwali police station T-point will remain closed for vehicles during the main function at Gandhi Maidan. The vehicles going to the north of planetarium will be allowed only up to the tri-junction near police lines via Budh Marg.
 
 
 
 
 However, there will be no restriction on vehicles moving from Patna Junction to Dakbungalow roundabout, Bhattacharya Road, Pirmuhani and Nala Road. But no vehicle will be allowed on Exhibition Road towards Gandhi Maidan.
 
 There will be no vehicular traffic from Deshratna Marg to Dakbungalow roundabout and from Dakbungalow roundabout to JP roundabout from 7am till the end of ceremonies at Gandhi Maidan. Any vehicle found parked on these two routes will be towed away to the nearest police station, inviting action against the owners.
 
 Movement of heavy or commercial vehicles will not be allowed towards Goria Toli from Chiraiyantand Durga temple, on Budh Marg from Mithapur overbridge, from R-Block to Income Tax roundabout and between Dumra Chowki on Bailey Road to Bhattacharya Road roundabout. No such vehicle will be allowed from New Police Lines eastward or southward on Budh Marg.
 
 Autorickshaws plying from Patna Junction will be diverted to New Dakbungalow road to Bhattacharya Road roundabout from where they will turn towards CDA building, Goriatoli and back to Patna Junction.
 
 Buses plying from NIT, Patna will be diverted towards Macchuatoli from Gandhi Chauraha to Dariyapur tri-junction, Nala Road, Pirmuhani, CDA building roundabout to Patna Junction. Same route will follow on their return journey.
 
 Commercial vehicles coming from Patna City side will turn to Musallahpur Haat, Bari Path and Ashok Raj Path and finally turn towards Gaighat.
 
 Buses of Bihar State Road Transport Corporation from Bankipore bus depot will start from Sultan Palace on Beer Chand Patel Path on   Day.
 
 
