 decided to cash in on   after the influential Spanish midfielder put in a transfer request for a move to Chinese League One side  .
 
  Garcia, who has two goals and five assists to his name in the Indian Super League, put in his transfer request before Bengaluru FC’s clash against FC Pune City on February 16, leaving the club with no choice. He was left out of that game which ended 1-1.
  
  Negotiations were not as smooth as everyone believes but the former I-League champions managed to extract a transfer fee of approximately Rs 1 crore, a first for any Indian club. Garcia had a one-year contract with the club worth Rs 58 lakh.
  
  Bengaluru FC have qualified for the group stages of the AFC Cup and semifinals of the ISL, with significant contributions from Garcia. But at a time when the league is now at its business end and AFC Cup matches still to follow, Bengaluru’s decision to let their prized possession go surprised many.
  
  “At the end of the day, we had to think logically in terms of the players future. When there was an offer (from the Chinese club) which is much, much better than what we are offering, and if you say no to that, where would that leave the player? We won’t get the desired result on the pitch. We had to make a rational decision which would help all concerned,” said Bengaluru FC chief technical officer Mandar Tamhane, who had to seek help from language experts to seal the deal.
  
  Bengaluru FC became the first Indian club to receive a transfer fee for one of their foreign recruits, although it’s not the first instance where Indian clubs have been rewarded for their investments. Last season, Chennaiyin FC received compensation from Brazilian club Bangu Atletico for the services of midfielder Raphael Augusto.
  
  Churchill Brothers allowed Bilal Najjarine to join UAE’s Dibba Al-Fujairah Club in 2013, despite having a valid contract. The club said they could have demanded a transfer fee but the Lebanese defender was so good during his time at the club that club patron Churchill Alemao didn’t want to play spoilsport. Ditto with Sporting Clube de Goa, who allowed Spanish defender Angel Berlanga to return to Auckland City. 
