BHUBANESWAR: On the eve of his fourth anniversary as India’s Prime Minister,   supporters in the state have a new slogan — Modinka yojna re, Odisha aga re. The message of the words, which literally translate into ‘Odisha is at the forefront of Modi’s schemes’, is loud and clear: Modi is set to emerge winner in the state, come 2019.

 
 On Saturday Modi will arrive in Cuttack and, as if to cement his ties with eastern India, address a public meeting there. 
 
 The fact that the party chose Odisha as the stage to celebrate a day of significance justifies the high hopes BJP has here. From a distant third position in the 2014   and state assembly polls, BJP has managed to emerge as the principal challenger to Naveen Patnaik’s   (BJD), as was reflected in the panchayat election last year and the Bijepur assembly bypoll in February.
 
 Battle lines are now firmly drawn between BJP and BJD, estranged allies who shared power for two terms in the state from 2000 to 2009. With   making a renewed effort under its new chief  , 2019 looks to be critical enough for the PM’s presence. Addressing a news conference here on Friday, BJP spokesperson   said Modi government’s achievement in the past four years is more than what Congress has done in over 50 years. BJP aspires to up its Lok Sabha tally from a state where it had won only one out of 21 seats —   from Sundargarh. 
 
 
 
 Congress will observe the fourth anniversary of the Modi government on Saturday as “great betrayal”, with its state units holding demonstrations against BJP’s “failure to fulfil its promises”. Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday did not go to Sikkim with the parliamentary standing committee on external affairs, amid expectations that he too may join the protest against the government in the capital.
 
 
 
 On the eve of the Modi government’s fourth anniversary and days after the swearing-in of the Congress-JD(S) government in Karnataka, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury urged secular forces to come together to ensure ouster of BJP in 2019. “This government has shown itself to be anti-people and anti-constitutional... The priority is to ensure that the government is ousted,” Yechury said. 
 
 
 
 
