BENGALURU: With petrol and diesel prices skyrocketing and hovering around Rs 73 and Rs 64, respectively, the Karnataka government is yet again under pressure to reduce sales tax on them to cushion the burden on consumers.

 Even as the pre-budget exercise is underway for the presentation of budget for 2018-19, petroleum dealers are planning to send a representation to the state finance department through the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI), seeking reduction in tax rates on motor fuel.
 
 “With the prices revised daily both consumers and dealers are worried about higher tax rates. While motor fuels are yet to be brought under the ambit of Goods and   (GST), the demand is that sales tax burden be reduced for now,” said B T Manohar, chairman state taxation committee of FKCCI.
 
 Delegation to meet CM on Feb 2
 
 A FKCCI delegation is scheduled to meet Chief Minister   on February 2. 
 
 Even the Centre is being pressured central excise duty on petrol and diesel as the dealers argue that the crude oil price which is around $66 per barrel does not justify the price spiral.
 
 It is not the first time that prices of petrol and diesel are relentlessly climbing. But the peaking prices in 2013 were in consonance with rising global crude oil prices. The petrol price had hit its highest ever Rs 83.62 on September 14, 2013 in Mumbai even as the global crude oil prices hovered around $128 per barrel.
 
 Petrol price touched a 40-month high at Rs 80 in Mumbai a couple of days ago. On Thursday, the petrol price in Mumbai was Rs. 80.34 per litre, the highest in the country, and Rs.73.61 in Bengaluru.
 
 “We don’t understand this price pattern. When the crude oil price was $128 per barrel, petrol was sold at Rs. 83.62 per litre. Now, the crude oil price is down by half and but the petrol price has still not come down,” said  , chairman of  .
 
 He said the prices are not coming down since the states and Centre, which he alleged are only concerned about their revenues, have been hiking the tax rates when the crude prices were falling and are not bothered to reduce them when the crude prices are going up.
 
 In Karnataka, petrol attracts 95 % tax, including 65 % central excise duty and 30 % state sales tax. The demand is that the state and central governments have to reduce the existing taxes or bring petroleum products under GST.
 
 If brought under GST, the cost of petrol and diesel will dip by close to 50 % in Bengaluru. For instance, a litre of petrol which costs Rs. 73.61 as on Thursday would be available at Rs. 43. 16, even if it is put under the highest 28 % GST slab. If taxed at 12 %, a litre would cost only Rs. 37.76.
 
 “What the consumer and dealers are demanding is valid. The tax rates should be linked to the fluctuating base price, but it is not happening as it is related the policy matter. As far as bringing petroleum products under GST, it is up to the Centre to take call,” said an official in the finance department.
 
 
