MUMBAI: Raising a stink, the   has doubled its estimated cost to collect and transport garbage at four wards to match the rates quoted by contractors and awarded them Rs 600-crore work. The tender was initially for around Rs 300 crore.

 Despite many corporators protesting the move, the proposal was passed in the standing committee on Thursday with the Shiv Sena joining hands with the  .
  
  
 Hinting at yet another scam, the corporators pointed out that instead of inviting a fresh tender on revised estimates, the BMC awarded the contracts by meeting the contractors’ demands. A former corporator has written to the civic chief demanding a probe. 
 
 The BMC administration justified the revision, saying its initial estimate was a mistake as it had not calculated labour cost at prevailing rates. 
 
 It claimed that its estimate was for internal consumption and bidders were unaware till the contractors were finalized. However, insiders said the contractors knew about the estimate when they bid.
 
 The tenders were for the BMC experiment at four wards to grant all garbage-related work of one ward to a single contractor to rule out the chance of passing the buck in case of lapses.
 
 The   opposed the proposal in the standing committee, but Sena and Congress made sure it was passed. “Instead of inviting new tenders on the revised estimates, the administration simply increased the contract to a higher rate as quoted by contractors, which raises suspicion. They did it to favour selected contractors. They are supposed to take the opinion of IIT experts on revised estimates before reaching a conclusion,” said standing committee member and BJP corporator Prabhakar Shinde. He added that suspicion was further raised as wards away from the garbage dump had quoted less than those nearer to the dump.
 
 Civic officials justified their move, saying their initial estimate was based on a calculation of Rs 300 for labourers for an eight-hour shift. But the contractors quoted Rs 842 as the standard, which the BMC is paying other wards. The officials found that rates for such projects were similar in New Delhi and Navi Mumbai. “We compared our revised estimated cost and came to know that it’s similar to these two cities. So we are not paying more to the contractor,” said a senior civic official.
 
 Former Congress corporator Pravin Chheda has written to the municipal commissioner demanding an inquiry. “The contract was fixed. It was decided among the contractors who would bid from which area and the amount they will quote. I had warned a senior official about it. The BMC has not given a chance to more competitors and awarded the contract to its favoured contractors,” he said.
 
 His party colleague Ravi Raja disagreed and backed the contracts. “We support the contract. His (Chheda) opinion must be his personal view.”
 
 
