PATNA: Since April 5, 2016, when chief minister Nitish Kumar announced total  , the state police and excise department have been struggling to cope with the almost recurrent illegal supply of liquor. Despite the toughest prohibition regime in the country with provisions for 5 to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for violating the law, the government seems yet to figure out a mechanism to completely plug in rampant bootlegging and liquor smuggling, which critics say has formed a parallel industry. 

 According to official sources, more than 1.25 lakh people have been sent to jail and at least 16.2 lakh litres of India made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 8.2 lakh litres of country liquor have been seized in Bihar over the past 24 months. The number of arrests related to liquor offences is probably the highest in the world for a single category of crime.
 
 Leave apart illegal supply of liquor, the Nitish government has also been left red-faced on many occasions following hooch incidents in different districts, including Vaishali, Gopalganj, Aurangabad and Kaimur among others over the past two years. Police records state that at least 30 persons died in hooch incidents since imposition of prohibition in the state. 
 
 All offences under Bihar Excise and Prohibition Act, 2016 are non-bailable. As a result of such severe provisions against liquor manufacturing, supply and consumption in any form, more than half the jails in Bihar are housing inmates at least twice than their sanctioned capacity. According to data of prisons department, more than 25,000 prisoners are stuffed inside 27 out of the 57 prisons in Bihar against their sanctioned capacity to accommodate around 16,880 inmates only. 
 
 Police sources said prohibition has also paved way for surge in drug smuggling and even criminal gangs are getting involved as they find it a lucrative business. While the rate of one kilogram of ganja has shot up to Rs10,000 in retail smuggling market, home delivery system for liquor is still running rampantly where a full bottle is supplied for Rs1200 to Rs1,500, depending on the brand.
 
 According to intelligence sources, at least 20 trucks laden with smuggled liquor enter the state every day out and hardly three out of them get nabbed.
 
 Such massive illegal supply of liquor along with dry drugs has also provided numerous opportunities to the opposition parties to trade guns at the state government. HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has time and again asserted that a majority of those in jails in prohibition cases are poor and dalits from extremely backward castes. RJD functionaries, including party president Lalu Prasad, have also termed the prohibition in state as “útter failure”. 
 
 Senior BJP leader and   member R K Sinha also said recently that prohibition law needs a review.
 
 
