HYDERABAD: A day after his remark that chief minister   could be called "Kaleswaram" Chandrasekhar Rao, Governor ESL   drew heavy fire from leaders of   and BJP. On Sunday, the saffron party even threatened to lodge a complaint with President Ramnath Kovind against alleged irregularities by ruling TRS in irrigation projects. It also questioned the Governor's role in lauding the ruling regime and failing to even mention   government's financial aid to the state.

  Pradesh Congress Committee leaders, including working president Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, former MP V Hanumanth Rao, former minister Sridhar Babu, deputy leader of CLP Jeevan Reddy and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar held press conferences at various places and described praises showered by the Governor on TRS government and CM KCR as "belittling the constitutional post held by him".
 
 Senior BJP leader and former Union minister Bandaru Dattatreya said it's unfortunate the Governor did not mention Central aid to irrigation projects in Telangana and the support offered in development projects in Telangana by the Modi-led government. Dattatreya, however, stopped short of criticizing the Governor for heaping praise on KCR.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Bhatti Vikramarka said, "The Governor should have done his homework before going to the Kaleswaram site."
 
 
 
 He added, “This project was started by Congress government and named Ambedkar Pranahitha project. The governor didn’t ask why ruling TRS changed the project name, which was christened after Ambedkar, or question how the project cost escalated. Narasimhan crossed the constitutional line in praising KCR and his government. If the governor does not review scams in irrigation projects, we will submit a representation to President Ramnath Kovind,” Bhatti said. The governor can possibly rename Raj Bhavan as TRS Bhavan, he said.
 
 Hanumanth Rao asked how the governor can praise KCR even before the project is completed. “Narasimhan was mum when Dalit farmers were handcuffed, sand mafia lorries crushed Dalits and police inflicted third-degree torture on them. The governor’s stand forces us to think he’s doing this either to get an extension of term or is getting commission in irrigation projects,” said Rao.
 
 “We will take the issue to CBI and PM if required,” he said, demanding an inquiry against the governor’s role.
 
 
 
