GURUGRAM:   opened the Hero   underpass for the traffic trials on Sunday evening. 

 The construction of the underpass, which was conceptualised in 2007, started in 2014. But, due to multiple delays and litigations in acquiring land, it had remained in a limbo. There was no formal inauguration of the underpass.   is the city’s biggest choke point and was worst affected during massive jam owing to waterlogging in 2016.
 
  
 Ashok Kumar Sharma, project director, NHAI, Gurugram, said, “Considering heavy traffic flow at   Chowk, the underpass has been opened on trial basis. This will continue for some time. Additional signage will be installed where required.”
 
 The underpass, which is 681.844m long and 22.5m wide, has two carriageways of three lanes each. A footpath-cum-drain of 1-m width is provided in each carriageway on both sides of underpass. 
 
 Madhusudhan Rao, project manager, Valecha Engineer Ltd, construction agency for the project, said, “We’re monitoring flow of traffic in the underpass. A report on how the traffic is moving will be sent to NHAI.” The work of beautification of underpass is yet to be done but rest is complete. After its opening, the underpass was closed for a few hours on Sunday evening but reopened on Monday morning. “There was not much traffic flow on Sunday night, so we had closed it for a few hours but the underpass is open now,” said Rao.
 
 TOI has learnt that there has been no communication between NHAI, Gurugram, and its headquarters regarding a formal inauguration of the underpass. On April 21, we had reported that “the underpass is ready and NHAI is waiting for approval from the ministry of road transport and highways to formally open it”. 
 
 The underpass will ease traffic movement to sectors 33-34, 9, 9A, 10 and 10A, and Sector 37 industrial area. Heavy rains in July 2016 had triggered a massive snarl at Hero Honda crossing — one of the busiest on the expressway. Termed ‘Gurujam’, the situation had propelled authorities to expedite the project. Commuters have expressed relief. Ruchi Goel, a resident of Sector 92, said, “I was on my way to Sector 10 when I saw the underpass open. It was ready 10 days ago. I don’t know why authorities held back the inauguration.”
 
 
