NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: Kashmir’s gain was Delhi’s loss as Eid came a week early in Srinagar.   qualified for the I-League after getting past Delhi’s Hindustan FC 3-2 in the second division league at the FSV Arena in Bengaluru on Wednesday. David Robertson’s side needed only a point to win the title and promotion on the final day of the season and they delivered a clinical performance to blank Hindustan FC. The 49-year old Robertson is a Scottish-born defender who spent his playing days with Aberdeen, Rangers FC, Leeds United and Montrose.

 
 
 
 Real Kashmir scored through Ifham Tariq Mir (22’), Danish Farooq (42’) and Nadong Bhutia (67’) while Kushant Chauhan (34’ & 80’) was on target for Hindustan FC. “It is the biggest and happiest occasion for the people of Kashmir since independence,” former international Ishfaq Ahmed told TOI from Srinagar.
 
 
 
 
 Ishfaq, the speedy winger who played for Mohun Bagan, East Bengal and India, is currently in Srinagar on a holiday and said he could feel the joy among the people. “It is trending on Facebook and I am getting congratulatory calls from across the country. It is difficult to put into words the joy that the Real Kashmir boys have brought home.”
 
 The All India Football Federation ( ) president   also sent his greetings. “Congratulations Real Kashmir FC for becoming the first club from Kashmir to qualify for the I-League. I am sure the achievement will inspire the youth to take up the beautiful game,” he said in a statement.
 
 It was the third meeting between the two teams. In the group-league stage, Real Kashmir held Hindustan FC 3-3 in Srinagar and in the return leg in the Capital, the score was 0-0.
 
 Ishfaq’s friend Shamim Mehraj, is the heart and soul of the club which played in the Durand Cup in 2016. Mehraj runs Kashmir Monitor, a daily newspaper. Real Kashmir played the second division in 2016-17 and in the very next season, they have made the cut.
 
 “People know a couple of sportspersons from Kashmir. Mehrajuddin Waddo, Parvez Rasool and myself. But now they will know a whole lot of them,” said Ishfaq. “It is an opportunity for the Kashmiri boys to showcase their talent at home. They do not have to leave for Kolkata as we had to.”
 
 What Ishfaq is looking forward to is how the state association will manage a full season next year. 
 
 “We only had exhibition matches in Srinagar. Mohun Bagan and Mohammedan Sporting came to play. But now it will be a full season. Major renovation work in the Bakshi stadium is needed. The state government and law-enforcing authorities will also have to chalk out plans to host 10 matches at least over a period of four months. The biggest teams of the country will be coming to play in Srinagar. It is a huge responsibility and a great challenge.”
 
 It was Real Kashmir who broke the deadlock in the 22nd minute. Ivorian Kouassi Yao started the move and it was finished by Tariq.
 
