CHENNAI: More than 22 years after he gave a call to "save Tamil Nadu from Jayalalithaa",   sought to occupy the political space vacated by the AIADMK supremo and DMK president M Karunanidhi, announcing his entry into politics. He, however, did not spell out the name of his party or his policies.

 
 After five days of interaction with his fans following AIADMK rebel TTV Dhinakaran’s victory in the RK Nagar byelection, Rajinikanth said he would float a political party that would contest all the 234 assembly constituencies in the state. "My political entry is confirmed. This is the need of the hour," said Rajini, calling for an honest and transparent system of governance to uproot corruption and practise "spiritual politics".
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Political reactions to the 67-year-old actor’s entry varied from caution to confrontation. While DMK was silent, BJP was the first party to welcome Rajini’s announcement. Tamil nationalist outfit Naam Tamizhar criticised the actor, referring to his non-Tamil roots. Constantly cheered by fans, Rajini took on the AIADMK without naming it.
 
  
  
 
 "Political developments in the past year have brought shame to the people here," he said. "In the olden days, when a king invaded a country, his men went about plundering the coffers. Generals and soldiers would loot the people on the losing side. Today, however, partymen, under the guise of democracy, are looting their own people."
 
 The superstar asked his fans to take the message to every street in every village of Tamil Nadu. “First, we must integrate the registered and unregistered fans associations and bring them under one umbrella. We mustthen prepare to facetheelection through democratic means. Until then, there is no need to criticise other politicians or hold agitations. There are many others already doing that,” Rajini told fans.
 
  
  
 
 The film star asked his supporters to strengthen the fans association through an enrolment drive. “Bring all those around you to the association, be it the young, the old, the illiterate or the educated.”
 
 Fans of Rajinikanth have waited for about three decades to turn into cadres. “I do not want cadres. I want guardians capable of questioning erring legislators, officials and even partymen. I will just be a representative of the peoplewho will supervise these guardians,” said Rajini, asking fans to turn into an army of guardians. Rajini said that the guardians should not seek personal favours from legislators and officials. “The guardians will keep the plunderers out so that the people receive the benefits they are entitled to,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 The superstar promised his fans that he was not entering politics for fame, money or power. “You have already given me much more than I could ever dream of. The throne came my way back in 1996, but I pushed it away. If I did not want the throne at the age of 45, why would I want it now when I am 68?” Rajini said.
 
 The ‘Padaiyappa’ actor, who plans to launch his independent party at a suitable time before the state assembly election, told fans, “Our mantra is honesty, hard work and growth. Our ideology is to think, talk and do only good. Good things will happen. If elected to power we will deliver on our promises within three years. If we fail, then we will resign.”
 
 Earlier, Rajini began his speech by quoting a verse from Bhagavad Gita. In Kurukshetra, Krishna told Arjun, “Put in your efforts. I will take care of the rest.” Citing the incident where Arjuna hesitates entering the war, Rajinikanth said, “Wage war. If you win, you will rule the country. If you are killed in war you will go to heaven. If you do not go to war they will call you a coward.”
 
 The superstar energised his fans with his war cry. “I have put in my efforts already. All that is left is to shoot the arrows. We will contest in all 234 assembly constituencies of TN. As the local body elections are already nearing, we do not have time to prepare. As for the 2019 general election, I will make a decision as per circumstances.”
 
 
 
 
