MUMBAI: In a surprise move,   Steel, which was disallowed to participate in the second round of bidding for   as it had not submitted an expression of interest in the initial round, has teamed up with Russia’s VTB Capital-led   to acquire the bankrupt company.

 
 JSW’s entry into the Numetal consortium has the potential to complicate matters for the world’s largest alloy maker ArcelorMittal, which is said to be a serious contender to acquire Essar Steel. Domestic steel giants have always been wary of steel tycoon L N Mittal-spearheaded ArcelorMittal’s Indian ambitions.
 
 If successful, the JSW-Numetal combine would consolidate the Sajjan Jindal-led company’s leadership position in the most promising steel market globally. Essar Steel has a 10-million-ton capacity while JSW, the country’s largest private sector steel player, has a capacity of 18 million tons. 
 
 Numetal, whose bid was disqualified as one of its shareholders was related to the promoters of Essar Steel, has altered its shareholding structure to comply with the eligibility norms under the bankruptcy code. Rules prohibit persons connected to the promoters of defaulting companies from participating in the auction process of insolvent assets.
 
 The 25% stake held by Rewant Ruia, son of Essar Steel’s co-founder Ravi Ruia, has been bought by Numetal’s two existing investors, TPE of Russia and Indo International of UAE. JSW said it has joined Numetal in the capacity of an investor but didn’t reveal its equity interest in the Mauritius-based company.
 
 Interestingly, JSW chief   has been very vocal about the way the bankruptcy proceedings of stressed steel assets have been handled. He had said that dubious promoters should not be allowed to bid for assets to prevent misuse of the bankruptcy code. 
 
 Besides the JSW-Numetal combine, Anil Agrawal’s Vedanta and ArcelorMittal submitted offers on Monday to acquire Essar Steel in the second bidding round. Vedanta had expressed interest for Essar Steel in the first bidding round but it didn’t make a final offer. Fresh from the success of Vedanta emerging as the highest bidder for Electrosteel Steels in the bankruptcy proceedings, Agrawal said that adding Essar Steel in the portfolio will make the company a sizeable player in India. ArcelorMittal, whose bid for Essar Steel was rejected after it failed to meet the eligibility norms under the bankruptcy code, submitted its offer for the beleaguered company in partnership with   and Sumitomo Metal Corporation. Essar Steel owes more than Rs 40,000 crore to lenders. 
 
 Even though the three bidders have submitted their offers, their bids will not be opened until NCLT-Ahmedabad decides on the eligibility of the bids submitted by Numetal and ArcelorMittal in the first round. Both the bidders have challenged the lenders’ decision of disqualifying them. The petition will come up for hearing on April 4.
 
 
