KANNUR: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu said that steps would be taken to provide medical education at the   (CUK), and a recommendation in this regard would be made to the ministry of health and family welfare. Inaugurating the new campus of the CUK at Periya in Kasaragod on Sunday, he said many students from Kerala go to the neighbouring cities of Manipal and Udupi in Karnataka for medical education. 

 Observing that the presence of the   is a blessing for the people of north  , he said the region requires a thrust in education, health and infrastructure. 
 
 Though India was once known as 'Vishwaguru' and people from across the globe used to come here to study and acquire knowledge, the situation changed following foreign invasions and the British rule. India lost its pre-eminent position in the field of education, Naidu added. But today, India has a chance to re-emerge as a global powerhouse in the field of education, he added. 
 
 "Although there are more than 800 universities in India, none of them figures in the top-ranking educational institutions in the world. We cannot adopt 'business as usual' approach if we want to change the situation," said the VP. From private educational institutions to the central universities, every academic organization must work in a mission mode to revamp the educational architecture in tune with the requirements of the 21st century to make India a leading nation in the field of education and innovation, he added. 
 
 Though India has the third largest higher education system in the world, its gross enrolment ratio is only 25.2%, he pointed out. The purpose of education is to enlighten, empower and develop a holistic individual whose moral compass will never swerve from the righteous path. Education must build character, calibre and capacity, besides promoting rightful conduct, he added.
 
 Naidu said nobody should forget their mother tongue and urged the authorities to make facilities to provide higher education in Malayalam in Kerala.
 
  
 
 
  Naidu said new bills and laws alone cannot stop crimes against women and children. After Nirbhaya, there was an ordinance, but there was no drop in atrocities against women, he said. "Bill is required but it will not suffice. Along with it, political will is required, administrative skill is required," Naidu said, calling for a change in the mindset of the people and there should be "a personal will to kill the social evil". 
 
 Ever since its inception in 2009, the Periya campus of CUK had been functioning from a rented premise and the new campus at Tejaswini Hills is considered a major step in its growth. Minister  , MP P  , among others had also attended the inaugural function.
 
 
