The   and  ' ‘Raazi’ has been making headlines right from the time it was announced. The film which boasts of some stellar performances by actors   and   collected Rs 4.42 crore on its third Sunday, taking its grand total to Rs 102.50 crore at the box-office.

 ‘Raazi’ is reportedly the fifth Bollywood film of 2018 to enter the Rs 100 crore club after ‘Padmaavat’, ‘Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety’, ‘Baaghi 2’ and ‘Raid’. At the same time, this film also marks Alia’s third film to make Rs 100 crore after ‘2 States’ and ‘Badrinath Ki Dulhania’.
 
 Set in the India of 1971 and over the backdrop of the period leading of India Pakistan war in the same year, the film covered all sensibilities of that era. Speaking about the same, filmmaker   had said, “Sensibilities are very different from what we know today. Even the patriotism as it is in the film is very different from what we know of patriotism today. And that is where the magic of cinema comes in where we all come together and create that world, pull you into it and convince you that now you are in this world too. All the departments of the film pull together to make that world a reality and that is exactly what shows in the film.”
  
  
 At the special screening of the film before its release, everyone who watched the film was moved. And that’s exactly why Mahesh Bhatt believes that in ‘Raazi’. Alia has given her best performance to date. He took to Twitter to share his emotions. He wrote, “Raazi movie review: In Meghna Gulzar's engaging thriller, Alia Bhatt gives her career's best performance so far”.
 
 Meanwhile, other celebrities too gave their reaction. Renowned filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani even wrote, “Saw #raazi. It’s an outstanding film and @meghnagulzar a master storyteller. Watch it for a great story and amazing performances from @aliaa08 @vickykaushal09 and all others. Salutes @JungleePictures @karanjohar”
 
 ‘Raazi’ is produced by Vineet Jain,  , Hiroo Johar and Apoorva Mehta and co-produced by Priti Shahani.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
