The sight of the lifeless body of 23-year-old Kevin and the devastated face of his newly-wed wife   have shaken the conscience of our supposedly progressive society. The fact that skin colour, the ‘status’ of the family and caste of a child’s life partner still matter very much for parents became only more obvious than ever. The couples we have featured here may have overcome the obstacles in their love lives but their stories are proof that Kevin’s and Neenu’s story isn’t really an exception.

 
 
 
 Gopika Nair, now 26, and Abhijith were students of Thiruvananthapuram’s University College when they fell in love. “Abhijith and I were active in politics and were representatives of the youth wing of a political party,” says Gopika. Since Abhijith was from a lower caste, their families strongly opposed their marriage, but rising above it all, they registered their marriage after graduation and moved to a rented house together. However, after a few days of marriage, Abhijith was put behind bars, alleging his involvement in a political case. “I was left alone for weeks in the house. It was then that I learned about life and the value of money. As I grew up in a wealthy family I never knew a want of food or expensive clothes. During that period, I went hungry for days and wore dresses costing a mere `100. But none of it made me leave Abhijith. My mother told me not to come home till my younger sister gets married as I was a shame to the family. To top it all, I had an accident, a gas cylinder explosion, and was hospitalised. But it made my parents come in search of me and accept us,” says Gopika, who is now employed with the Kudumbashree.
 With just their love for strength, Gopika and her husband fought their way alone and are financially stable today. “Abhijith is a building contractor now and he even takes care of my mother, as my father passed away six months ago. We have a four-year-old son now. We left the caste and religion columns blank during his school admissions. When he becomes an adult, he can choose them. We are glad we could show the world that life is not about caste or religion,” says Gopika.
 
 
 
 
 
 Sunil JS and Kavitha Shukoor are leading a happy married life with a two-year-old daughter but Kavitha’s family is yet to accept the  . Sunil, now 31, says, “It has been three years but still, her mother and brother don’t speak to us. Kavitha had replaced me at my former office. We became friends and later fell in love. But her parents fixed her marriage with a man from her own religion. Though she rejected the proposal many times, her family kept forcing her. We had no choice but to elope and register our marriage. My parents were scared that it might turn into a communal issue. Meanwhile, Kavitha’s brother even spread rumours about her being an immoral woman with affairs at her workplace and her residential area. She registered a complaint under the Women’s Protection Act and a case at the Museum Police station here. We are thankful to the then SI Ajithkumar who called her brother and reprimanded him for spreading false statements about his own sister for refusing the marriage fixed by him.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 Caste, colour and skin colour don’t matter when one falls in love, says Francis Bernard John, a Thiruvananthapuram-based businessman who is now leading a happy life with his wife, Karthika, a Hindu. ‘’Oscar Wilde once wrote — Romance is the privilege of the rich. But it is wrong. If our love is pure and true, it will give us strength in life,” he says.
 
 Francis met Karthika seven years ago at a music programme in the capital. She was a singer and he fell for her immediately. “I received life threats from her family as I am a Christian and she is a Hindu Nair. We had a ceremony in a temple and got our marriage registered. Her parents filed a police complaint against me. Though my parents were not against our relationship, Karthika and I decided to stay away for a few days as her family was hunting for us. Those three days of hiding were the most stressful of our lives. The police were looking for us. But the tension between our families didn’t affect our relationship; rather our bond grew stronger as we believed in true love. To love is not a sin and the society should understand that,” says Francis.
 Karthika is now a converted Christian. “After a few months her parents accepted us. Her decision to follow Christianity was not forced. She took her parents’ permission and accepted a new name, Nancy. My father is a musician while Nancy aka Karthika is a dancer and singer. Both of them share a good bond,” adds Francis.
 
 
 
 
 
 Ranjith KM, a techie from Thiruvananthapuram, was a victim of discrimination based on caste. “I fell in love with an upper-class Hindu girl who works with me. Two months ago, I gathered the courage to meet her highly placed parents and convey my wish to marry her. I must say that though we live in a State with a high literacy rate, people still assess us based on skin colour and family status. They had issues with my skin colour and said it is a ‘status issue’ among their relatives. I had to convince them about my financial stability and bank balance. If the girl I love has no issues with my skin colour or caste, why should her relatives have? We both respect our parents and were sure that we would marry only with their blessings. Our families have agreed to our wedding now,” says Ranjith.
 
 
 
 
 
 Kozhikode native 31-year-old Fathima Sayid still shivers as she recalls the filmy style escape from her conservative Muslim family. Fathima, a college lecturer, married Srinish, a Brahmin by caste. Fathima says, “I am the fourth child of my parents. I met Srini five years ago during a literary fest at Kozhikode. We found that we had similar interests and like the same books. Slowly our friendship evolved into love. We feared a communal riot as our families were well-known in the area but conservative. Both of us were environment activists and so with the help of like-minded friends we eloped. My family threatened and abused our friends for helping us. We settled in Kochi two years ago. Srini is a software engineer employed in an IT firm here. Things have not yet settled and there still is a cold war between our families. My elder sisters are in contact with me. I felt disturbed on hearing the news about Kevin’s death. Why are people killing innocent souls in the name of caste and religion?” Fathima asks.
 
 
