NEW DELHI: The   Rail Corporation ( ) on Tuesday agreed to take over the liability of Rs 1,617 crore debt owed to banks by   Infrastructure subsidiary DAMEPL, which pulled out of the Airport Express Line leading to a dispute.

 DMRC’s stand came after Reliance assured the Delhi HC it won’t enforce the Rs 5,164 crore arbitration award in its favour till the pendency of appeal filed by DMRC.
 
 The agreement between DMRC and   (DAMEPL) was conveyed to a bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar which listed the appeal for hearing from July 25.
 
 Taking the assurance on record, the court however specified if DMRC’s appeal is dismissed, it would be burdened with the liability of the Rs 2,501 crore over all debt that DAMEPL is saddled with since it borrowed from promoters and other financial institutions for Airport Express Line project.
 
 The court was hearing DMRC’s appeal against a March 6 order of a single judge upholding the May 2017 arbitral award in favour of DAMEPL. Delhi Metro has also challenged the single judge’s direction to deposit within four weeks 75% of the amount in an escrow account maintained with the banks which had loaned money to the Reliance Infrastructure subsidiary.
 
 The bench said the issues that need to be decided are whether DAMEPL abandoned the project, as claimed by DMRC, and how much of the debt owed to the banks is to be paid by the public sector undertaking (PSU).
 
 DMRC, represented by additional solicitor general P S Narasimha, told the court that it will take over servicing of the debt owed to the banks after the court’s earlier query if the corporation is willing to pay or take over the Rs 1,617 crore owed to 11 banks — Axis Bank, UCO Bank, Punjab and Sind Bank, Andhra Bank, Central Bank of India, Dena Bank, Allahabad Bank, Canara Bank, Bank of India, IIFC UK and Canara Bank London. DAMEPL, represented by senior advocates P   and  , told the court that the debt owed to the banks alone, with interest till April 9, came to Rs 3,325 crore and DMRC should at the least pay 80% — Rs 2,660 crore — of that as per the agreement.
 
 However, Delhi Metro maintained that once DAMEPL abandoned the project, under the substitution agreement, it had to run the Airport Express Line as a receiver as the only alternative it had was to shut down the operations.
 
 
