Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister   will launch the new plot and property management system at the   complex in   on January 29. 

 A department official said the new system would have user- friendly features using which allottees would be able to avail different services provided by estate offices through a web portal.
 
 In the first phase, the official said, services like transfer permission letter (in case of allottee, GPA, family, death, will, court decree), re-allotment letter, mortgage permission, de-mortgage permission, building plan approval and surrender of application (e-auction) for residential and commercial properties will be covered. The remaining services will be available in the next two months, he said.
 
 With this, he said, people would get quick, hassle free and transparent services without having to visit the estate office concerned during submission of the application. He said the allottee would have to visit the estate office only once as per the online appointment schedule for biometric attendance and capturing of photograph.
 
 Digitally signed approval documents will be made available on the user ID of the allottee in a downloadable format. The entire process will be completed in four working days from the date of submission of the application. He said business process hierarchies and timelines have been re-defined to ensure quick delivery of services. Property files are digitised and access to electronic files has been provided on the online account of the allottee, he said.
 
 The official also said allottees are advised to update password and other property details like e-mail ID, Aadhar linked mobile number and payments for quick and safe transactions. In case of missing data in the online property account, the allottee will have to approach the helpdesk of the respective office with valid original documents to update data in their property account.
 
 The complete workflow of the new process is available on the website, www.huda.org.in and HUDA helpline 1800-180-3030, he said.
 
 
