CHENNAI: The hunt for the cause of the cholera outbreak in select city hospitals has led public health officials to the community kitchens created by patients and their attenders from outside the state. The way food was prepared and handled in many of these kitchens wasn't hygienic, officials said. 

 Officials from the directorate of public health along with   and food safety department are now drawing up a list of city hospitals that have long-staying patients from across the country and abroad. 
 
 "We will issue guidelines for patients from other states who visit Chennai hospitals for treatment along with their family members. They prefer to cook their own food as they may not like south Indian cuisine served in hospital cafeteria or hotels. So far, we never thought of inspecting such kitchens. We have now asked hospitals to discuss food and water safety with them," said director of public health Dr K  . "We don't yet know if these kitchens caused the disease, but we know they need better practices," he said.
 
 On Saturday, the city corporation received case sheets of seven cholera cases reported by two branches of   in Chennai. While one patient was treated as out-patient, the hospital moved all others to an isolation ward to prevent spread of the infection. While the infection has been contained within the hospital, public health experts want to ensure there is no outbreak. "These people can spread the infection to others if we don't contain them," Kolandaisamy said.
 
 When his team visited various community kitchens, they found that food handlers, cooks and kitchens did not follow adequate hygiene practices, he said. They were told to boil water and follow hand hygiene.
 
 Food and water samples from the hospital were lifted for tests. City health officer Dr N A   said they did not see contamination in water and were awaiting results from the food safety department.
 
 Hospitals meanwhile have initiated "emergency codes" to prevent the spread of the infection. Patients and attenders have been banned from eating food brought from outside the hospital. 
 
 Doctors, nurses and paramedics have been put on alert and there is stringent monitoring of hygiene and hand wash.
 
 
