NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) has moved a proposal with the state government to bring all ayurvedic drug selling stores under FDA’s control, and prohibit their sale openly in the market or drug stores. This is being done to prevent sale of spurious drugs to patients over the counter, and bring these drugs also under FDA regulation.

 FDA Joint Commissioner (headquarters) and state drug controller Amrut   told TOI that there have been many (57) complaints against various ayurvedic products. These products have been found to contain huge amounts of allopathic drugs in them. “Since these drugs contain a huge amount of allopathic drugs, they obviously give good results. This fact is then wrongly used by manufacturers to make tall claims of good results. But FDA has no control over the sale of any such drugs,” he said.
 
 Manufacturing companies only require FDA license to make the drugs, but at present no license is required for sale of these medicines in special ayurvedic drug stores or any other medicine store. There is no system or guideline at present to regulate the sale and purchase of these medicines. “Hence, the   has pushed a proposal to the state government to bring ayurvedic medicine sales also under the purview of FDA,” said Nikhade.
 
 Nikhade says that if there is a need to trace the sale of any allopathic drug it is possible to trace it from the trader to the manufacturer. But this is not possible with ayurvedic drugs. There should in fact be regulations about not just sale, but also the storage, record keeping, registration fees etc. “If there is a registration fee, it will generate revenue for FDA, which will help us increase posts in the department and serve people better,” said Nikhade.
 
 The state has over five lakh ayurvedic outlets, which are completely unregulated. People in recent years have started buying ayurvedic drugs in large numbers over the counter from medicine shops as well as general stores. “Ayurvedic drugs have gained demand in the market due to their amazingly good results. But the public is not aware of the possibility of spurious mixtures with allopathic combinations. They just rely on the results and the popularity of the drug. Hence, there is a strong need to bring them under regulation. FDA hopes that the state will take serious cognisance of these facts and pass an order in FDA’s favour,” Nikhade said.
 
 
