VADODARA: Even as impasse between parents and   that can be charged by   continued in the city,   on Friday shot off a letter to state education minister demanding that the state government should take over assets of those schools which refuse to obey the fee regulation Act passed by Gujarat government. 

 Patel in his letter addressed to education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama appreciated the state government efforts to regularize fees charged by private schools by bringing the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act 2017. 
 
 “But the state government should set an example by taking over assets like buildings of those schools whose corrupt managements are still not ready to implement the Act and are trying to find legal loopholes and pressurising parents to pay more fees,” Patel stated in his letter. 
 
 The impasse between   continued in the city on Friday when teams formed by the district education officer (DEO) held meetings with parents and principals of some schools to explain the “provisions of the Act”. 
 
 “We fail to understand that at a time when Gujarat high court has already upheld the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act 2017 ruling that the private schools cannot engage in profiteering and the Act itself has prescribed the annual fees of Rs15,000, Rs25,000 and Rs27,000 as upper limit on primary, middle and high school level, why aren’t school managements implementing it?” asked Bhavna Sapkal, president of Vadodara District Parents Association. 
 
 Sapkal said All Gujarat Vali Mandal has already given the bandh call appealing all parents not to send their wards to schools on January 12. 
 
 While the teams formed by DEO stressed that parents should pay fees based on old fee structure of 2016-17 till the time fee regulation committee (FRC) decides over the fees that private schools can charge, parents are not ready to budge. 
 
 “The schools had enough time to apply before FRC. Even the officials from the DEO seem to be favouring the school managements instead of parents. The directive from the DEO should be clear that school managements should refund the excess fees that the parents have paid so far,” she said.
 
 
