MUMBAI: The state government’s long-pending project to grade medical and dental colleges will finally take off this year. The   (MUHS) will grade 346 affiliated colleges, including government and private, on the lines of the   (NAAC) to help students make a better choice during admissions. 

 The ‘impact assessment project’ will cover colleges offering other applied health sciences courses too. Grades from A+ to D will be awarded to medical colleges after an inspection by the MUHS. The inspection of ayurveda and homeopathy colleges was completed a few months ago. A review of physiotherapy courses is underway. A committee will be formed for inspecting medical colleges too. 
 
 The assessment would be in two parts: infrastructure at an institute and the attached hospital (700 marks) and academic parameters (1,000 marks). 
 
 “The idea is to enhance the quality of education ta medical colleges. It will also help students to make an informed choice during admissions,” said MUHS registrar Kalidas Chavan. 
 
 This year, the   (NIRF) included medical colleges for the first time. The state government was keen on introducing an assessment project as there were no bodies assessing medical colleges, even at national level. Dr Avinash Supe, dean of KEM Hospital and GS Medical College, said the medical college grading initiative would inculcate a sense of quality and competition, though the system should be supported with adequate resources and information. 
 
 “The parameters are fairly good, but they could be refined. The university is trying to take a 360-degree feedback from all stakeholders on which parameters should be given more importance. A regular external review for institutes is a must, but self-assessment and documentation should be taken seriously,” said Supe. “It would be difficult to assess doctors passing out of colleges. There is no way to find out if a doctor will have adequate clinical experience, if he is poor-friendly, if he is actually good in practice.”
 
