BHOPAL: Right to education (RTE) scheme fraud gets murkier with different students being enroled on common Samagra ID.

 Sample this- Akash Rajak shown as a student of KG-II enrolled in a private school as beneficiary from an underprivileged family entitled to RTE benefits. He is also a non-BPL student named Sanjay Vishwkarma. Ironically, both students possess the same Samagra ID.
 
 The former as per school education’s RTE portal is enrolled in Jagat Janani Vidya Vihar School Jabalpur under RTE while as the later having same Samagra Id belongs to a well off family from Shyama Prasad Mukharji village in Jabalpur.
 
 TOI accessed list of students some random schools registered under RTE in various private schools of state that recently came to light in Bhopal. Strangely, a male namely Mahendra Jee who belongs to district Ujjain as per Samagra portal of Madhya Pradesh has been shown as a KG-I student Nida Anjum of district Jabalpur entitled to RTE admissions by school education department.
 
 Anjum daughter of Sageer is enrolled in a private school as beneficiary from an under-privileged family entitled to get benefits. While as Mahendra does not come under BPL category as per the records. Both have a similar Samagra ID.
 
 Crores of rupees is given as reimbursement each year to private schools to bring more and more children from under-privileged families as mandated under the Right to Education Act, 2009.
 
 Sources in Rajya Shiksha Kendra (RSK) told TOI that it is a huge nexus that has emerged since past few years and has gone unnoticed.
 
 “Two things are associated to this nexus, one is officials have filled the RTE seats in the name of ghost students to maintain record. Secondly, they have been minting money in the name of ghost students and by both means they get benefited,” said a source in RSK.
 
 RSK denied to provide the list of students under RTE and their Samagra IDs of other districts citing security reasons. However, TOI later tracked down the list from MP education’s official RTE portal only to find the major flaws. Agreeing to the irregularities, RSK director Lokesh Jatav told TOI that there can be two reasons for loopholes in records.
 
 “One there can be genuine errors while the data was entered which can be rectified. Second, there can be violation of rules done with an intention to make financial defalcation for which inquiry is already underway and strict action would be taken against whosoever is found guilty,” he added.
 
 He added that RSK is trying to plug all the loopholes associated with RTE admissions.
 
 “We have linked the admissions to Adhaar cards and switched the whole process to   so that there is no room for embezzlements or kind of fraud,” he added.
 
 Programmer Samagra Portal MP Mahendra Tyagi told TOI that this kind of misappropriations can occur only when a third party would misuse Samagra Ids of other persons.
 
 “This can only happen when a third party misuses Samagra IDs without any authentication. We don’t know how RTE admissions are dealt and which IDs are used for students. However if we encounter with such issues, we forward them to school education department,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
