MUMBAI: A 22-year-old woman was arrested on Wednesday for kidnapping a five-year-old girl from outside her Nalasopara building on March 24 and strangling her in a women’s toilet at Navsari station in Gujarat.

 Read also:
  
 
 Anita Waghela is the   of victim Anjali Saroj’s father Santosh, 28, and sought   as he had reneged on his promise to marry her and even forced her to undergo two abortions—the second one in February.
 
 “An hour after the abduction, Santosh sent a text message to Waghela asking her if she had kidnapped Anjali. But he did not mention this to us and now he has lost his daughter,” said Tulinj police inspector Kishore Khairnar. Police had formed six teams to nab the accused, who they suspected was a local resident.
 
 Santosh, a tempo driver, was in a relationship with Waghela, a daily wage labourer who was unmarried, since she was a teenager. When his wife learnt about their affair in February, she left for their home town in Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh with their two-year-old son, leaving Anjali with her father.
 
 Waghela told the police that she knew Santosh doted on Anjali, a kindergarten student, and decided to teach him a lesson by killing her. On March 24, around 8pm, Anjali was playing with friends outside her house at Sai Arpan building in Vijay Nagar, Nalasopara (E). Police said Waghela, who was seated near the buillding since 6.30pm, lured the children with chocolates and aerated drinks. On reaching Vijay Nagar naka, Waghela gave cash to the other children and asked them to buy more chocolates. She then left with Anjali. A CCTV camera at the crossing showed her walking away with Anjali. Police suspect Santosh had lied about not identifying the woman in the CCTV footage. “Though the images were hazy, the woman was seen limping. Santosh was having an affair with Waghela since 2011. It is not possible that he could not have identified her,” said Khairnar.
 
 Read also: 
 
 
 Waghela told police she took Anjali in a local train to Borivli and then boarded a long-distance train to Gujarat. In the train, she gave the five-year-old some pills, rendering her unconscious. Waghela alighted at Navsari with Anjali in her arms in the wee hours of Sunday. She went to the ladies toilet on paltform number 1, strangled her and left the body there. Waghela then boarded another train to return to Nalasopara.
 
 Waghela has been booked for   and murder under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 
 
 
