AHMEDABAD: Even as micro,   (MSME) struggle to recover from after-effects of the  ,   – who are part of a largely unorganised and labour intensive industry – appear to be a worried lot ahead of Makar Sankranti. While the cost of kite production has gone up, the supply has dwindled as several manufacturers have not been able cope with costlier raw materials post-GST, say industry players.

 The short supply has led to a spike in kite prices by 35% amid demand gradually picking up ahead of the kite festival.
 
 Explaining the reasons behind higher input costs, Salim Rasoolbhai, a manufacturer at the kite market in Kalupur Tower area, said, “Raw materials attract different GST rates. For paper it is 12%, for string 5% and stick 5%. At the same time, the same on the end product (kite) is 5%. In the previous tax regime, all these ingredients attracted 5% VAT, except coloured paper. Due to this, our manufacturing costs have gone up by at least 20%.”
 
 This led smaller players to reduce their production quantity by at least 40% as they could not sustain the added input costs. In fact, another reason for cutting production is also the unavailability of the sticks (kamandhaddha) which is usually procured from Kolkata. “There is a short supply of sticks which are used to make kites. Due to unseasonal rains in West Bengal recently, a lot of stock is damaged and thus, availability is a major issue, even at a premium rate,” said Brijesh Dani, a kite wholesaler.
 
 With meagre production and festive demand, the prices of the kites have gone up by at least 35%. “However, this will only help us make up for the costs incurred and not make any profits. Kites are presently sold at a wholesale price of Rs 300 for a set of hundred kites which is at least 30% higher than the last year due to short supply,” said another kite maker from the city.
 
 Corporate orders have overall been slow in the past couple of years. The only significant business kite makers are getting of late is from political parties. However, manufacturers are not able to fulfil even those orders and therefore aren’t accepting any.
 
 
