SURAT:   of city police arrested three men on Monday for their alleged involvement in an attempt to derail a train on December 28 morning by placing benches on the  . 

 The accused had placed benches on the track to mount pressure on cops. Increased police vigil had made it difficult for those transporting ganja from Odisha to the city in the past few months. 
 
 Another attempt to derail a train was reported on Sunday wherein some unidentified persons had placed a cement block on the track near Udhna railway station. Dehradun Express hit the cement block but it did not derail because it was moving slowly. The cement block was removed by railway engineers. Police arrested Babla Durjan Das (38), a resident of Ashok Nagar; Biranji Khandal Behra (21), a resident of Ashwini Kumar slums; and Balram alias Musa Vijay Shetty (18), a resident of Patel Nagar. The accused are natives of Ganjam district in Odisha. 
 
 Police have identified Dilip Archit Pandi, a resident of Katargam, who too was involved. He is yet to be arrested. The offence was registered at Katargam police station before the investigation was handed over to the crime branch. The accused had placed a wooden bench as well as a steel bench on the railway track.
 
 The accused were nabbed in a joint operation by M S Trivedi and T A Gadhvi, police sub-inspectors of DCB. Police investigation revealed that 10 more accused were involved in the conspiracy to derail a train. “The accused have been arrested for attempting to derail a train. We are working to nab other accused who were involved in the crime,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said. 
 
 “We are yet to find out the exact reason behind their attempt to derail a train. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused are involved in illegal business of ganja. They bring ganja from Odisha in trains. Strict action by GRP and the city police had created difficulties for them to transport ganja. Hence, they did this to put pressure on the police,” Sharma added.
 
 
