KOLKATA: Notwithstanding their success at the U-19 World Cup in New Zealand, the Indian contingent, led by   and coached by  , once again find themselves in a controversy as the   (CAB) secretary Aditya Verma has levelled charges against   acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary of fielding an overage  .

 
 While batsman Manjot Kalra had to overcome a similar age-related issue before boarding the flight to New Zealand, Roy, who emerged as the joint highest-wicket taker with 14 scalps to his name, has been dragged into the controversy owing to Verma’s allegations against Chaudhary.
 
 Currently playing in the Vijay Hazare Trophy in Hyderabad, the left-arm spinner completely denied Verma’s charges.
 
 “I have no idea about what this (the claims) is about and neither do I have any knowledge of such things,” said Roy.
 
 Verma, who has supposedly written a letter to the   ( ) chairman   and chairman of the   (CoA) Vinod Rai to bring the issue to their notice, alleged that Roy had failed the age verification process (AVP) conducted by the BCCI in 2017. “I was never informed about any such issues. I clearly passed the test and was eligible for selection,” Roy maintained.
 
 Apart from levelling charges against Chaudhary, Verma also trained his guns on Jharkhand State Cricket Association’s (JSCA) joint secretary, also the manager of the Indian U-19 World Cup squad, Rajesh Verma for suppressing the fact that 33 players of the association were found to be overage in the AVP test in 2013, including Roy.
 
 Reacting to Verma’s statements on Friday, Rajesh Verma said, “Roy was part of the Asia Cup squad last year although he did not play. Why did he not ask this question then? As a manager whatever certificates are given, that has to be approved by the ICC well ahead of time. I’ve got nothing to do with it. The AVP process does not happen every year. It is only done at the U-16 level. After that it doesn’t work. It’s the age certificates which work after that,” said Rajesh Verma.
 
 
