AHMEDABAD: The security at Ahmedabad Textile Industry’s Research Association (ATIRA) doesn’t allow vehicles inside the campus in the morning before office hours. However, they make an exception for  , a businessman.

 Agarwal, a regular walker at the campus, always has his car boot full of grains to feed birds. All the walkers are free to take the grains and scatter them at designated areas. Agarwal doesn’t keep count of the amount of grains he brings in daily as the chirping of hundreds of birds on ATIRA campus is his reward.
 
  ATIRA, boasting of 67 acres of campus right in the middle of the western Ahmedabad, is a favourite campus for the morning walkers due to its lush green environs which come alive with bird calls at the break of the dawn. But this thrum of nature is kept alive by the 400-strong walker and jogger community that tends to the flora and fauna.
 
  
  
 Many of the Good Samaritans, majority of them businessmen, attribute their act to septuagenarian  , a businessman who has been regular at the campus for about three decades. The businessmen might be dictating orders in their working hours, but here they can be seen cleaning the water pots meticulously and filing them up with the water by bringing the plastic cans from water points.“Before me, there was one businessman who used to fill up the water pots while taking a walk. When he got relocated, there was no one to carry forward his work. Thus, I started filling the pots for birds and animals. I started alone but today there are about 10 teams that look after the work,” says Shah, adding that today no broken pot goes unattended as someone invariably replaces it with a new one.
 
 Jatin Badhiyani, a businessman, comes for a daily walk for past six years. “For past two years, we (he and his wife Namita) started filling up water in pots and providing grains. The fellow walkers were an inspiration and we truly feel a sense of satisfaction,” he says.
 
  
  
 Apart from the birds including scores of peacocks, the campus also has a colony of monkeys, snakes and stray dogs. It’s only for past few years that the walker groups divided 70-odd water points in 10 groups that also looks after replenishing the grains for birds and insects at designated spots. In absence of one or more members, others willingly take up their share of work. Earlier, many members used to bring water from their homes but ATIRA now has provided them taps to fill the cans.
 
  
  
 “Now it’s more like meeting our family in the morning as many of the members have been coming to the campus for over a decade. We also organize a family meeting every month and try to go on excursion once a year,” says Agarwal.
 
 Jagdish Acharya, a businessman and part of the walkers’ group, said that it’s their way of giving back to nature. “I am not an avid bird watcher, but I can say that the birds have grown in number and variety over the years. What can be a better way to start the day?” he asks.
 
 Canine care and peacock-spotting
 
  is a housewife who feels for the dogs at ATIRA campus. These dogs include both strays and those abandoned by their previous owners. Gupta provides milk for these dogs and pups as she believes that the act fills her with positive energy to begin her day.
 
 Parul Dabhi, an arts and crafts teacher, is easy to spot on ATIRA campus as she is the only visitor in whom the peacocks trust. She feeds the peafowls on a regular basis but one peacock in particular, nicknamed ‘Raja’ by Dabhi, is so fond of her that it even eats from her hand without any fear or apprehension.
 
 
