North India’s prestigious medical-cum-research-centre   sees over 7,000 patients daily, but has nothing when it comes to innovation and technology for affordable health care, said   (research) Dr  , who took over charge on Sunday.

 “There has been no innovation and it is time to encourage young researchers to do so as they have new ideas,” said Dr Rajwanshi, admitting the institute is lagging in research.
 
 PGI in the past 50 years has been granted five patents and none are licensed, though the number of publications is more than three a day. There are more than 7,000 patients coming to the OPD daily, but there is seldom a research which has resulted in a commercialised product. “There has to be a political will to enhance money for research. We also need to generate extramural grants to support research and development,” said Dr Rajwanshi. He said, “Presently, we spend a part of non-planned annual budget on research. This has to double.”
 
 Out of Rs 1,207 crore announced in the recent   for PGI, Rs 892.98 crore would be spent on salaries of the staff, while Rs 225 crore would be used for buying equipment. Last year, Rs 920 crore was allocated for the salaries and Rs 210 crore for equipment.
 
 There is no patent cell in the institute which can guide researchers. “We do not get time from the patient rush. So, how can we do research which can be commercialised? Even publication takes time as it has to undergo various peer reviews,” said a senior faculty member.
 
 It is not the first time that a top official in the institute has agreed over lack of research in PGI. Two years ago, former PGI director   led a study which analysed that more than 90% of the publications even in the leading medical institutes have less than 25 citations. The researchers examined the quality of some of the individual research publications and found that most of them have been a follow-up of the ongoing research work in the US or Europe. “Hardly, any new drug or medical equipment has been developed in India or any software of medical importance gained worldwide acceptance,” mentioned the study.
 
 
