Ludhiana: In a major attempt to revive sports culture in the district, the municipal corporation authorities are planning to turn the unused squash court near Rakh Bagh into a private   for the betterment of shooting lovers from across the district.

 The concerned officials of the sports department of the MC will be floating a tender for allotting the shooting range to private organisers in the coming week. 
 
 Moreover, district-level shooters will now get to heave a sigh of relief with the corporation’s decision to turn the unused squash court into a private shooting range as currently in the absence of the latter in the city, they have to travel for over 30 kilometers to attend practice sessions at Ludhiana district rifle shooting range in Narangwal village on a daily basis. This is causing great inconvenience because in city area there is not even a government shooting range for local shooters.
 
 Speaking on the issue, Harvinder Singh Dhalla, superintendent of headquarters of sports policies in municipal corporation said, “Within the next week tender monitoring committee will unveil the bid for turning out the squash court into a private shooting range through proper channel. It will remain helpful to generate revenue for the municipal corporation treasury.”
 
 He added that the official formalities regarding the conversion has been completed by the concerned department officials. The range will be operational within this month for shooters from across the district who are otherwise forced to cover long distance on a daily basis.
 
 “Once the shooting range starts functioning, the corporation will take up the same process for Shastri Badminton hall, located inside Guru Nanak stadium, which is in a dilapidated condition since the past several years. It will be of good use in generating rental income.”
 
 “One of major reasons behind the allotment of shooting range to private stake holder is that municipal corporation is not in a condition to bear hefty amount of electricity bills along with maintaining charges of the infrastructure of the above said centre, if some private company would take over the charge of running it, then they will responsible for its entire maintenance,” Dhalla said to us.
 
 While speaking to Gurjeet Singh, head coach of Punjab sports department rifle and shooting range at Narangwal said, “Finally the corporation has considered the long pending demands of local shooters of turning the squash court into a shooting range because a large number of players are going to Narangwal village on a daily basis to attend practice session in such hot and humid climate which leads to inconvenience, tiredness among the most of players.”
 
 “Moreover, for players belongs to middle class families it would not possible to travel 60 kilometers daily to attend practice session at Ludhiana rifle and shooting range as a large amount of money will be spent on travelling expenses, “ Singh added.
 
 The squash court was constructed in 2002 and has been lying unused because city sports enthusiasts showed least interest in the sport. As a result, the MC failed to generate a money from the sports centre. Despite recent renovations, the corporation failed to generate revenue again.
 
 
