Nagpur: The funeral service and last rites of Archbishop of Nagpur Reverend Abraham will begin at the SFS church compound, Mohan Nagar on Monday at 3.30pm. The archbishop passed away on Thursday in Delhi after suffering a heart attack. His body has been kept at the Pastoral Centre at Bishop’s house after it was brought back from Delhi by an aircraft. Giving details of the funeral service, Father Lijo Thomas, PRO, Archdioceses of Nagpur said, “We are expecting a huge gathering of around 5,000 people from his native place in Kerala, from Khandwa and places around Nagpur.” Arrangements are being made outside the church where chairs are being put up to accommodate the crowd. Total 37 archbishops and two cardinal priests will be attending the funeral. “The body of archbishop will be brought to the church at 12pm and will be kept there till 3pm for people of other religions to pay respects,” Thomas informed. The funeral service will begin at 3.30pm with the entrance procession arriving at the church. It will include Moran Mor Baselios Cleemis Catholicos, Major Archbishop of Syro Malankara Catholic Church, Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church. Javier Fernandez — Representative of Nunciature, Bishops Vicar Generals Major Superiors of Religious Men Priests, relatives of Archbishops. “The relatives of the late archbishop will be the pall bearers up to halfway from the church after that the Diocesan Priests will take over. Rev. Fr. Albert D’Souza will read the obituary which will be followed by mass,” Thomas said. The archbishop will be buried inside the church below the altar. He will be the second archbishop to be buried there, the previous one being Leobard D’Souza who passed away in 2003. “Those present will be allowed to watch the burial, offer flowers and pay last respects before a slab is placed over the burial space,” the PRO informed. On Tuesday, April 24, the process of appointing an administrator will take place. “The consultors of the archbishop will convene to elect a priest from the Catholic Diocese of Nagpur. The elected administrator will serve till the time a new Archbishop is ordained,” Thomas informed. The appointment of archbishop is done by the Pope who selects a name from among those given to him by the Papal Nuncio or the ambassador.