DEHRADUN: With the possibility of the Dehradun mayor seat getting reserved for women, a tug-of-war in the   has further intensified for the coveted post in the hill capital.
 
  The saffron party has heavyweight aspirants such as   who is considered close to the CM, Umesh Agarwal, former city chief of the party and women’s cell chief   and former BJp city chief Puneet Mittal.
  
  BJP state chief, Ajay   said, “It is for the administration (state government) to decide on granting women reservation status to any city. Our party has many capable leaders. A decision on the candidates would be taken after consulting senior leaders.”
  
  Bhatt added that the focus of the party is not just mayor post but all seats in the urban local bodies in   going for poll in April this year.
  
  After the delimitation, eight cities — Dehradun, Haridwar, Haldwani, Rudarpur, Roorkee and Kashipur (Kotdwar and Rishikesh have also been added to the list) — will be going for mayoral election. Under the delimitation process, the state government is expanding the municipal limits and adding more villages in 92 urban local bodies on the basis of population.
  
  Party insiders say that the status of the cities would be clear once the delimitation exercise gets over by the end of this month. “There is a possibility that after the delimitation process, the Dehradun seat might be reserved for a woman candidate. And if that happens, then equations would drastically change for the aspirants,” said a BJP leader.
  
  Interestingly, posters with photo of outgoing mayor Vinod Chamoli’s wife has created a flutter in the BJP camp as it means that he might be pushing his wife’s candidature for the post. “The selection of the candidate depends on many factors if a heavyweight candidate like   is contesting then the equation would change completely because then no political novice would be given ticket from the BJP,” the party leader added.
  
  Meanwhile, the party has started an internal survey for finding the right candidates in the hill capital and for this task the party’s full-timers (purankalik) have been roped in. “The move is aimed at checking the people’s perception of the candidates. Their input would help us decide if the seat will be reserved for women or it will be left unchanged,” another BJP leader said.
