CHANDIGARH: To invite the students, researchers and faculty members to take full advantage of the various types of scholarships and funding opportunities available under EU-funded programmes, ambassador of the European Union (EU)   participated in an international conference titled “EU Day in Chandigarh on EU-India Relations in Foreign Policy and Security: Challenges & Opportunities”, organised by the department of defence and national security studies,   (PU) in collaboration with European Union to India on Friday.

 Referring to one of the scholarship offered by EU, Erasmus   said around 600 applications have been received till date and more are expected.
 
 In his keynote speech, he said that the EU is a forum to come up with mutually satisfactory decisions between all member countries. Unlike other regional organisations, the EU is an integrated regional organisation. He talked about the freedom of movement of products and people in the EU without any interest country borders. His speech touched various topics like migration, currency, trade and fiscal policy among others. 
 
 Vice chancellor of the university Prof   in his opening remarks praised conducting of such events to apprise Indian students of the various higher education opportunities available abroad, especially in the European Union. He said even during times of peace, there is always a threat of a war-like situation but events like these ensure that peace prevails in long term.
 
 Earlier, the welcome address was delivered by Lt Gen K J Singh (Retd), who remarked that India looks to EU as the keeper of security and sanity and the net provider of skill and training.
 
 Prof Deepti Gupta, dean of international students, in her introductory remarks while welcoming the dignitaries spoke about the importance of multicultural education to broaden the student horizons. She also invited the faculty and staff from department of UIFT to present handmade paintings to the guests. 
 
 The event was attended by more than 300 students of PU campus and its affiliated colleges.
 
 
