KOLKATA: The 42nd edition of the Kolkata book fair may have been a grand success, with even the last day recording three lakh visitors, but environment activists rued the fact that the aspect of cleanliness was more-or-less ignored.

 The fair ground is just beside Banabitan — a 19,000sqft open green space, which is the second largest open space in the city after Maidan — and has two large waterbodies nearby. The area is rich in bio-diversity, with several species of reptiles and hundreds of bird species. A visit by TOI on Monday revealed that plastic bags, used thermocol plates and glasses were strewn around near the waterbodies, right next to the book fair boundary wall.
 
 Hundreds of unused plastic water pouches were also dumped on the fair ground. However, workers clearing the area promised the pouches would be removed soon.
 
  ( ) chairman Kalyan Rudra said it was always desirable to keep any place free of plastic waste. He said that during the last 10 days of the book fair, school children were engaged in a plastic waste awareness campaign everyday, with placards against dumping of plastic in and around the fair ground.
 
 The WBPCB authorities had also fixed an air pollution reading machine at   and the readings will be found within a couple of days.
 
 While the fair was on, the waste bins at the food zone were always spilling over with thermocol plates and cups. “More such bins should have been kept at the place,” said a visitor.
 
  mayor-in-council (waste management) Devashis Jana said civic workers have been engaged in clearing the fair ground, but the Banabitan complex outside the fair ground’s boundary wall is not in their jurisdiction. Jana said a dedicated conservancy team was deployed at the fair ground to keep it and its surroundings clean.
 
 Publishers and Booksellers Guild president Sudhangshu De said a part of Central Park, towards the back of the fair grounds, had to be used to cook the food being sold there and some debris had unfortunately been left behind.. “The entire premises will be cleaned up,” he said.
 
 Green activist Subhas Dutta said environment norms were usually not properly followed on fair premises. “Guidelines were framed way back in 2009 on how to keep the environment clean while organising such big fairs . But unfortunately, the environment aspects are not properly looked into. The rules need to be followed,” he said.
 
 
