PUNE: Implementation and monitoring of welfare   and amended laws as well as holding department officers accountable to project outcomes could only ensure proper execution of government schemes, said  , principal secretary, administrative reforms, on his last day in office on Wednesday.

 Zagade, who retired after 34 years in government service, told TOI that unless government schemes are announced and executed well, there is no point in random announcement of new schemes. Having recently issued an order making government secretaries and joint secretaries accountable for cases registered under Aaple Sarkar portal, he called for checks to ensure monitoring of various schemes under each department.
 
 “There are many schemes about which the public is not aware of. Neither is there a check on their implementation or fund allocation,” he said. To ensure that the schemes are properly implemented, he felt that the officers should be made accountable and they should be assessed by their immediate seniors for execution and implementation as well as budgetary allocation.
 
 On the implementation of various laws and their amendments, he said that no record was kept on their implementation and once this was done, a true picture can only emerge of the utility of various schemes.
 
 He recently trained secretaries and joint secretaries at YASHADA Pune. With 19 lakh government employees, he said there was a need to train officials and ensure that they implement various schemes.
 
 He said questions should be raised on non-implementation of schemes and this is being addressed through the new GR where secretaries will check why a complaint has not been addressed.
 
 Having raised an alarm over transfer of temple trust land by a local talathi, the former divisional commissioner of Nashik said that such types of cases can be found everywhere in the state and it was time land laws were properly implemented. “Nearly 184 acres of land worth Rs 200 crore was transferred by a temple trust in Nashik. The question was raised in the assembly and even as district administration officials ruled out malpractice, a local talathi was found involved in an underhand deal and we had to register FIRs against administration officials. So it is essential to audit all land deals, both government and private,” he stated.
 
 Zagade said that unless land-related laws were implemented properly, there could be many such incidents unless proper auditing and updation of records were carried out.
 
 
