At a time when the   ecosystem of the Nilgiris is battling the threats of pollution and climate change, a dip in tourist inflow to the hill station during this season seems to have come as a relief.

 While 4, 06,963 tourists visited the hill retreat last April, this year the number fell to 3, 60,362. The tourist footfall in May (until May 28) dropped by 1, 65, 185 from last year’s count (11, 20,014).
 
 Officials in the district administration attribute it to the decline in the number of picnickers or one-day vacationers due to strict reinforcement of the ban on plastic, transportation of gas cylinders in tourist buses and cooking of food along roadsides in the past year. 
 
 "We saw fewer tourist buses this year. But it is a welcome sign for the locals as the crowd was bearable this time compared to the past few years," said L Saravanakumar, a resident.
 
 Hoteliers and restaurant owners, however, assert that their bookings have not seen a decline this year. "The tourist count may have thinned due to the decrease in the inflow of floating tourists. It is a good sign. Tourists who visit Ooty to enjoy its beauty are deprived of such an experience due to overcrowding of the hill station by picnickers. The latter leave behind a trail of garbage," said N Chandrasekar, secretary, Nilgiri Hoteliers’ Association.
 
 "We did see a comparatively thinner crowd this season. But that did not affect our business. We had a good business," said a restaurant owner.
 
 "With a fragile ecosystem, Ooty can take only a finite number of tourists. While the number of tourists had reached to the optimum level over the years, its fall is good for Ooty. It is a natural way of taking away pressure from the hill station," said Geetha Srinivasan, convener, INTACH-Nilgiris chapter.
 
 Geetha says residents this year could see a regulated traffic and quality cultural programmes happening in the town which is usually crowded during this time of the year. "Besides, leisure tourism, activities like walking, hiking and trekking should be encouraged in the hills to promote quality tourism," said Geetha.
 
 Although the Nilgiris has been witnessing an increase in tourist inflow every year for the past decade, there was a marked dip in 2010 after massive landslides in the hill station in November 2009 which claimed 45 lives.
 
 
