PANAJI: The high   of Bombay at Goa has held that the director of education clearly overstepped his jurisdiction in refusing permission to a private secondary school that wanted to terminate the services of a probationer teacher.

 
 
  
 
 In 2016, Royale Secondary School,   had requested the director to grant permission to its removal of physical education teacher Tushar Narvekar. In September 2017, the director declined the request. 
 
 As per the rules, an appointing authority is empowered to terminate the services of any probationer employee with one month’s notice without holding any enquiry if the probationer’s work and conduct is not satisfactory. 
 
 The rule also stipulates that no such termination can be made by a recognised non-minority school, except with the previous approval of the director of education. 
 
 Setting aside the director’s order, a division bench comprising justice N M Jamdar and   observed: “The director opined that, even though the misconduct may have been proved, justice, equity and fair play demand that the approval should not be granted. The director has clearly overstepped his jurisdiction. This ground, at the most, is available to an appellate authority to set aside the order of punishment, and that too if the appellate authority is so empowered.”
 
 The high court pointed out that the Goa, Daman and Diu School Education Act, 1984, and the Rules of 1986 clearly show that the director of education is not an appellate authority. The approval of the director is a safeguard provided in favour of the employee on probation, and it does not confer any appellate powers on the director, the court remarked.
 
 “Such wide and unguided equity jurisdiction is not conferred on the director under rule 83,” the court held. “The director has only to ensure that the basic ingredients of rule 83 are satisfied and nothing more. For example, he has to see that memos were issued or not or whether entries have been made or not and such other parameters specified. The director has been entrusted with the powers only to ensure that the safeguards enacted in rule 83 have been complied with.”
 
 Holding that the director has not even finally concluded whether rule 83 (which deals with probation) is complied with or not, the high court set aside his order. The court asked the director to decide the proposal again.
 
 
