JAIPUR: With   admitting to ball-tampering during the just-ended Cape Town Test, franchise   have been forced to take a call on captaincy, an issue that looked settled when they decided to retain Smith for the forthcoming   season for Rs 12.5 crore.

 
 
 
  would be a clear frontrunner should Smith be axed as skipper, and the call, Royals sources informed, will be made “pretty soon”. On Sunday, the Royals management was in a huddle, discussing the matter and possibly a safe, non-controversial replacement. However, any decision will have to be taken after consultations with the BCCI.
 
 
 
 “The BCCI and Rajasthan Royals will like to wait for the ICC to announce the official sanction against Steve Smith. As of now, no decision will be taken either by the board or the franchise,” IPL chairman Rajeev Shukla told agencies.
 
 In Hyderabad, there was uncertainty regarding the status of David Warner as skipper of Sunrisers Hyderabad but the SRH management was tight-lipped on the issue. “No one is willing to talk on the issue right now as they are waiting for more clarity to come in. It is too early to make any comment,” a source said, indicating that SRH could meet on Monday to discuss the issue.
 
  
  
 On Sunday, Royals’ executive chairman Ranjit Barthakur released a statement saying: “We have been made aware of the controversy of ball tampering in the ongoing Australia-South Africa series and await further instructions from the BCCI, before we make any announcement. We will not tolerate any actions that are unfair by definition and bring disrepute to cricket. Our zero tolerance policy applies to everyone in our team.”
 
 As things stand, Smith’s position as the Royals skipper has become untenable and in all likelihood, he would have to be replaced. Royals are making their comeback to the IPL after serving out a two-year suspension and image makeover is one of their major concerns.
 
 On whether Royals would go to the extent of terminating Smith’s contract is a matter of speculation. That decision will have to be made jointly with the IPL governing council. That could also be influenced by ICC’s stand on the issue.
 
 Apart from Rahane being a front runner in case Smith is axed as RR skipper, Ben Stokes could be another name to be considered, but English allrounder has had his brush with controversy.
 
