 was thrown into the spotlight as one of the two leading ladies in director   debut film   in 2015, which was his brother Nirup Bhandari’s acting debut as well. It not only landed her a nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actress — Kannada, it opened doors for other projects in Kannada as well. The actress has teamed up with the Bhandari brothers yet again for their upcoming romantic comedy  , which Avantika is excited about.
Talking about her role and shooting experience, Avantika says, “In Rajaratha, I play Megha, a lovable girl who’s a lot like Sandhya from RangiTaranga. Even after the shoot is over, I’m still   and not Avantika in the way I think, dress and behave, because I’ve invested that much into the character, both physically and emotionally. Shooting yet another movie with the Bhandari brothers was a lively experience, because it’s a team I’m familiar and comfortable working with. They make me feel less like a cast member and more like a family member. Also, it’s easy to work for a director like Anup because he is very clear about his characters and their back stories, which gives a solid foundation for actors to build on. And the comfort level I share with Nirup really helps with my acting.”
 A set that has a comfortable working environment always gets the best out of any actor, but what is the one thing that makes this team so special? “We function as one. Everybody is equal and can voice their views or opinions without any inhibitions. Anup might be the man in charge, but he encourages an open atmosphere, which makes acting for him worthwhile. And Anup and Nirup, being brothers who’ve discussed movies almost all their lives, Nirup understands exactly what Anup expects, and Anup knows how to get the best out of Nirup. They work well together,” she says.
 Avantika might have seasoned as an actor, but insists that while this movie had its own set of challenges, a few she faced in her debut have continued as well. She explains, saying, “See, Rajaratha is a big canvas film, with many actors, so you have to be very responsible while doing your bit. In RangiTaranga, it was not like that; it was my debut and the focus was more on learning than just performing. But one thing that was common in both films is my struggle with dialogue delivery. I’m not fluent in Kannada, and to make things worse for me, Rajaratha was shot in Telugu too. In RangiTaranga, Anup and Nirup made fun of me struggling to deliver dialogues in an unfamiliar language, but when Nirup experienced the same for Telugu, they understood my struggles.”
 The team is going through the anxiety and excitement of a movie release together all over again, but with a different mindset. “Before the release of RangiTaranga, there were no big expectations, except from within. Now, there’s a lot of it from all around, and that can get to you sometimes. Thankfully, Anup’s calming personality and presence has helped us deal with all kinds of trepidations. He’s a protective, positive person who I consider to be my guardian angel. After two projects with the same team, there is a lot more emotional bonding among all of us. On the last day of the shoot, I felt like I was at a funeral; my mood was that sombre. I am very emotional when it comes to acting, because I love my craft so much. And as actors, we don’t always get to portray the roles we dream of doing, growing up. But in Rajaratha, I got to do that, so acting in it has been an emotionally satisfying experience,” she says.
 
