KOCHI: In an attempt to decongest Vyttila Junction, Ernakulam collector   took a decision to demolish the existing traffic island at the junction and to tar the area in front of it to facilitate smooth flow of traffic. The decision was taken at meeting convened by the collector on Sunday to chalk out solutions for addressing the traffic chaos at Vyttila on a war footing. 

 The collector said that parking will not be allowed on service roads and byroads. The motor vehicles department (MVD),   (enforcement), police and revenue departments have been instructed to initiate severe penalty measures against those violating parking restrictions.
 
 He said that zebra lines will be drawn to help pedestrians cross busy roads. The deputy police commissioner and assistant police commissioner were given the responsibility to identify specific places and monitor marking of zebra lines.
 
 Safirulla said that the signalling system will be enforced strictly and they would rope in more police personnel if required.
 
 It has been decided to explore the possibility of using alternative roads and utilize these routes. A committee consisting of police, MVD, people's representatives and residents will conduct a study on how to utilize byroads and service roads and submit a report within three days. Signboards will be placed to indicate alternative roads so people can avoid travelling through Vyttila Junction.
 
 "The opinion of people's representatives and residents will be considered before reaching a final decision on implementing one-way system on byroads," said the collector. The assistant commissioner of police will monitor these activities.
 
 The collector also instructed that alternate roads, which will be used for diverting traffic, should be repaired soon. He also wanted to   where repair works have to be carried out. A report on this is expected in the next five days.
 
 A decision was taken at the meeting to consider the aspect of providing pick and drop facility to multi-axle vehicles that are currently parked on the sides of the national highway at Vyttila mobility hub. Vehicles heading for places like Bengaluru are currently parked along the sides of the highway and this leads to traffic blocks. Moreover, vehicles bringing commuters to these   are also parked on the highway. This further adds to traffic chaos.
 
 "Under these circumstances it becomes essential to provide a pick-up and drop facility for long-distance buses at the hub. We are also exploring the possibility of providing parking space for these buses at the hub. We are also aware of the inconvenience caused to women and children who wait for inter-state buses at various bus bays in the city. We will check whether it would be possible to use the area near government girls' school to park such buses. The RTO will look into this and submit a report within two days," said the collector.
 
 
