Tirupur: Heeding to the age-old demand of farmers in the region, who depend on Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) irrigation scheme, the state government has constituted a five-member expert committee to conduct a feasibility study on the proposal to construct dams across Nallaru and Anamalayar rivers. The committee comprises of three former chief engineers of the public works department (PWD), a member of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) and one from the forest department. It has been directed to submit a report within six months, based on which, the government is likely to take steps to construct the dams after consultation with Kerala government. PAP irrigation scheme came into existence after Tamil Nadu chief minister K Kamaraj signed a pact with his Kerala counterpart EMS Namboodiripad in 1958. While 4.4 lakh acres of agricultural lands in Coimbatore and Tirupur depend on PAP scheme, Tamil Nadu should share 19.55 TMC of 32 TMC water annually with Kerala as per the pact. Tamil Nadu could build dams across Anamalayar and Nallaru with the consent of Kerala, after a dam was constructed across Idamalayar river.  While Idamalayar dam was constructed in 1985 and it even underwent rehabilitated under the Dam Rehabilitation Improvement Programme (Drip), Tamil Nadu did not take steps to realise the project, despite continuous demands from farmers here. “Due to the absence of those two dams, water from Anamalayar and Nallaru rivers has to travel more distance before reaching the concerned dams and reservoirs. For instance, water from Nallaru has to travel more than 80km to reach Thirumurthy reservoir, the main reservoir that would distribute water to about 3.5 lakh acres of lands. If a dam is constructed across Nallaru, water can reach the reservoir after flowing for only 17km,” vice-president of the Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam SR Madhusudhanan said. With a dam across Anamalayar river, Tamil Nadu farmers can take 2.5 TMC additional water, a senior PWD official said. “While about 32 TMC is the highest yield recorded so far, it is hoped that the two dams will help PWD ensure the increase in yield up to 5 TMC (2.5 TMC of Anamalayar dam). Also, as Nallaru dam will be constructed in a high-altitude area, water from the dam can be used to produce around 250MW electricity,” he said. However, a section of farmers have come out against the formation of the committee, saying that it will only delay the process. “It was not known what the government was expecting from the committee, because the dam projects have been conceived already. Information like construction of dam, tunnel and power house was already available with PWD. Obtaining no-objection certificate (NOC) from Kerala for constructing the dams should be the first step. We could not see it as a positive step,” chairman of the Thirumurthy reservoir project committee K Paramasivam told TOI. “Forming the committee could be claimed as an achievement of the present government. This will not give respite to the farmers unless the government conducts talks with Kerala and construct the dam,” added Madhusudhanan.