MADURAI: The decision of the Animal Welfare Board of India ( ) to stop two of its representatives from proceeding to Madurai to observe jallikattu events has kicked up a controversy.

 Animal rights activists   from Chennai and Nigel Otter from Nilgiris were in the five-member team formed to observe the bull-taming sport and report to AWBI in a week but were abruptly asked not to proceed. 
 
 In fact, sources said that the two were asked in the middle of their trips on the night of January 13 to return without being given any reason. 
 
 While Rubin had crossed   near Chennai, Nigel Otter had travelled down 50 kms. 
 
 The state government had recently formed a 10-member jallikattu committee with  , who had served as national co-convener of the BJP’s cow development cell, as convener. Gohar Aziz, founder of Bharatiya Prani Mitra Sangha, and   from Chennai were the other two members on the team formed for Madurai. 
 
 The team has not raised any major issues regarding the preparation and conduct of jallikattu events that took place in Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur. Madurai district collector   said that the AWBI team was satisfied with the way the event was conducted and had appreciated the officials too. 
 
 While the AWBI authorities said that the incident of withdrawing the duo was due to a communication gap, animal welfare activists suspect that it may have been a deliberate move to avoid exposure of the torture meted out to the animals. That would affect the continuity of the state’s cultural sport. 
 
 A Chennai-based activist said that the two were dropped as they were feared to expose the violence, which AWBI wanted to avoid at this juncture. 
 
 An animal rights activist from Madurai involved in jallikattu works, who did not want to be identified, said “the inspection carried out was only an eye wash as the members were not seen around. I saw only a couple of them largely glued to the VIP gallery,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, Rubin refused to comment. Nigel Otter said he did not want to delve into the mystery shrouding the sudden withdrawal. 
 
 However, he said that healthy criticism should be allowed for the sake of constructive development.
 
  “I am not against jallikattu and I respect the sport. But the bulls taking part in it should not be harassed. Only when someone points out issues can they be set right,” he said.
 
 AWBI secretary   said that the recall happened due to a miscommunication and that the duo’s names were wrongly included in the list. 
 
 When asked whether it was an attempt to ensure pro-jallikattu people on the team, he said no such question arose as all of them were ‘neutral’.
 
 
