   is surprised at the speed at which he returned to India.
 
  When the Dutch striker parted ways with   FC, mutually, and packed his bags for home in Netherlands, everyone raised their eyebrows in surprise. Why would any club allow their best striker and leading goal-scorer to leave midway into the season, even if there is a change in coaching personnel?
  
  When Sifneos returned to India just as quickly, now with another franchise –   – there was even more amazement. Kerala Blasters fans accused the young Dutch striker of engineering his exit by waving offer from an European club, and even though new manager David James claimed the striker was injured, his eight-minute cameo for FC Goa against Mumbai City FC proves otherwise.
  
  “I didn’t expect to return so soon. I didn’t expect to come back to India, to be honest, I thought this was the last time (I would see India),” said Sifneos, speaking exclusively to TOI after making his debut for FC Goa.
  
  “As you can see, I am not injured but there were some changes made to the coaching staff (at Kerala Blasters) and for me the best thing was to also change (clubs). There was interest from Europe. There was a big club in Europe which was going to sign me but it was full. It’s already half-way into the season so opportunities are limited. There was the loan (option) but complicated,” said Sifneos.
  
  It was during this period of uncertainty that FC Goa came calling. Coach Sergio Lobera is a fan of the young striker’s abilities in front of goal. He offers Goa options upfront and Lobera made it clear that Sifneos was his first choice, ahead of two Spanish strikers and one from a leading club in Morocco to replace Adrian Colunga.
  
  “I am a professional and had to take up this offer, which I must say was the best I had. I always look out for what is best for my career and I want to progress as far as possible. I will play here till end of season and then go to Europe,” he said.
  
  It is still not clear whether Kerala Blasters wanted Sifneos out with the arrival of James as manager or did Sifneos want to quit the club after the man who signed him – Rene Meulensteen – was shown the door. Sifneos makes it clear parting ways was the best for both parties.
  
  “I think it was best for both sides that I left the club and everyone had different opinions. My role in the team changed a little bit (after Meulensteen’s exit). I was not feeling the same like before. I think it was better for the team too because they now have a player (Icelandic striker Gudjon Baldvinsson) which they believe in more (than me), I think. So it’s good for both sides,” said Sifneos.
