Vijayawada: As curtains came down on Pongal, the festival of harvest, the controversy over cockfights has started thinning out. 

 People, mostly employees, traders and politicians are getting back to their regular work. At the same time, cockfights also continue to fascinate the masses for a couple of days more, even though these are not so well organised. 
 
 Some places like Diviseema and Nuzvid in Krishna district as well as Bhimavaram and Konaseema in the Godavari district will see cockfights for at least the next two days as the festive mood is still lingering among people. Many people did not chance upon their roosters locking horns in fight during the festival. They are now resorting to stray fights in the backyards. However,   is likely to be zero or very low this time and winning or losing of a   only matters to its owner. 
 
 Betting for cockfights during the last three days of the festival involved a lump sum amount of money coming to some thousands of rupees and the roosters, engaged in the battle, made some people rich and some poor. 
 
 The designated courts for betting saw at least a dozen of fights on each of the last three days. In addition, there were also several stray fights organised by people who were involved with the betting of some hundreds for each fight. 
 
 Along with cockfighting,   with play cards and dices was also held on a large scale during the festival and saw the involvement of a huge amount of money. 
 
 The courts for play cards had the minimum betting fee worth Rs 500, while it shot up to Rs one lakh for a single round per person. Each gambling court had 50 punters in the organised row and a few dozens of them were betting outside the ring. 
 
 With dice, the betting started with Rs 10 and went up to Rs 1,000 per a single round. Retail liquor shops and non-vegetarian food outlets ran business at the venue on the three days. 
 
 Interestingly, while the cockfights were held during the day time, the betting went on till night even under the flood of nights. Rich landlords of the area and influential politicians were behind the cockfights. The court orders imposed a prohibition on tying a knife to a rooster during the fight and entertaining betting. 
 
 However, in many places traditional cockfights and betting went unnoticed by the administration, said the owner of a rooster, who had taken part in the celebrations during the last three days. 
 
 
