Fashion events are no more a rarity at Crafts Museum. After being a venue for some popular fashion events last year, yet another mega show was hosted here on Wednesday. It was for the first time that 16 fashion designers, who graduated from the   ( ) years ago, came together to put up a show that not just highlighted their specialised work area, but also their contribution in promoting handloom and textile.

 
  
  Namrata Joshipura and Manish Arora
 
 Among the designers were Rajesh Pratap Singh, Payal Pratap, Namrata Joshipura and Manish Arora. The show was organised by the Fashion Design Council of India ( ) and was a part of the inaugural event of NIFT’s international conference on 'Rediscovering Culture Transforming Fashion.' Textile Minister Smriti Zubin Irani was the special guest for the evening. 
 
 
  
  There were 16 fashion designers, who graduated from the NIFT over the years, putting up a show at Crafts Museum 
 
 
 For NIFT alumni and faculty, the event was no less than a college reunion. It was for the first time that NIFT’s designer alumni did a fashion show together and many of them were reminded of the show that they did as students. "Manish Arora, Rajesh Pratap, Payal and I are from the same batch of 1994 and when we were backstage I was telling Manish that this show reminded me of our first NIFT show. This event did bring back a lot of memories. There wasn’t a show of this kind ever where they brought all the alumni together. It is such a fantastic thing to be here," said Namrata Joshipura.
 
 
 
  (clockwise) Rajesh Pratap Singh, Namrata Joshipura, Payal Pratap and Manish Arora
 
 
 
  
  Smriti Irani, Anant Kumar Singh, Secretary,  , and  , President, FDCI
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  Harmeet Bajaj and Tanira Sethi 
 
 Suket Dhir, who was from the 2005 batch, participated in the show despite a fracture in his leg. "It’s been so many years… I met many of my batchmates and some of them look so different that I can’t even recognise them," said Suket. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
  
  Anavila Misra (R) with a model 
 
 Sunil Sethi, President, FDCI, said that the idea of putting together a show was to present the strength of NIFT. "This is how we have started to show the strength of NIFT. Among the designers who showcased here were some established names in fashion, who graduated from the institute some 20 years ago, and some new designers. Over the years, this is what NIFT has produced. Almost every designer here showcased that even with pure handloom they are able to create a mark globally. The last part of the show, where all the designers from NIFT stood together with the models, was the most spectacular part for me," said Sethi.
 
 
  
  Suket Dhir
 Payal Pratap Singh 
 
 
  
  Sunita Shanker (R) with a model in one of her creations
 
  
  Rajesh Shah, Chairperson, Board of Governors, NIFT
 Sarada Muraleedharan, Director General, NIFT
 
  
  Vladimir Maric, Serbian Ambassador to India and Leena Nair, Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs
 
  
  Nayanika Chatterjee 
 
  
  Gaurav Jai Gupta (R) with a model in his creation
 
 
  
  
 
