Love is blind, especially when the partners are from two remote corners of the world, with nothing much in common. This  , we share the   from six such couples for whom neither the colour of their passports nor the flavour of their cuisine mattered as much as that overpowering, magical emotion called love.

 
 
 Over the years, many a foreign tourist has visited Vijay Kumar’s tattoo studio at Fort Kochi. But when Natalia from Russia walked in, on a lovely January evening last year, it was a never-before moment. She took away Vijay Kumar's heart and their love blossomed into marriage in November, last year!
 
 He describes that first meeting: “Natalia visited my studio out of curiosity, not to get a tattoo done. But when we met, something magical happened. Her simplicity and soft-spoken nature struck me.”
 For Natalia, who was working as a manager of a company in Russia, it was her first trip to India. “I remember the day I met my husband, vividly. I was at the hotel near his studio for dinner. Seeing the sign board of the studio, I went in, and there he was,” she says. The gentle, open minded and kind-hearted Vijay Kumar won her heart in no time. “He also has a subtle sense of humour, which I liked very much,” she fondly recalls.
 
 Natalia returned to Russia by January end, but the duo kept in touch. “We used to call and text every day, during breaks and after her office time. I realised how she was perfect for me. I am a simple Fort Kochi man, not someone who leads an adipoli life full of alcohol and cigarettes. Natalia shares my views and understands me. When she said she was ready to marry me and settle down here, I knew it was truly special,” Vijay Kumar says.
 
 Natalia came back again in July. In September, they registered their marriage and had the wedding ceremony in November. “She makes great dosa, idly, tomato rice and other Indian dishes,” he compliments Natalia. She adds, “It’s his mother who taught me to cook them. But I am yet to learn complicated dishes.” A vegetarian, she names chilly gobi, chilly paneer and dal as her favourite foods. 
 Does she miss Russia? “Well, when I do, I can probably ask my husband to take me to Munnar,” Natalia says. “I am in touch with my family through internet and have asked them to make their next trip to Kerala. Once we save some money, Vijay and I would make our first trip to Russia together.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Music composer Rahul Raj says it was love at first sight when he met Miriam Merkle from Germany for the first time. She had flown down to Kerala to study at Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham’s Amritapuri campus in Kollam. It was her great love for Indian culture that made her take up this course. Rahul was a routine visitor at Amritapuri campus as part of his music assignments and he had seen her there once.
 
 “She was my Orkut friend at that time and I was surprised when she sent a message — ‘Rahul Chettaa, I have heard your compositions and they are very nice’,” says Rahul. “Thus we became friends and fell in love later. We got married in May 2008, after five months of knowing each other. My mother was a little worried that I was marrying a western girl; she was doubtful if my non-Indian wife would be able to adopt our culture and systems. But they are now more like mother and daughter and Miriam is very fluent in Malayalam. She was very keen to understand our rituals including pujas that we perform at our houses. She is a homemaker but for me, she is a wonder woman who takes care of everything at home including my mother’s health. Our daughter Akshainie Leiya’s name is a blend of German and Indian cultures. For us, Valentine’s Day is another ordinary day. We love enjoying the ordinary days and celebrate our ordinary life which is the happiest thing for Miriam and me.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Irina Antonova, 30, first connected with Paul Skaria on a social media platform in November 2010. They chatted generally on travelling, personal development and Russian history in which Paul took a lot of interest. They later lost touch and did not speak for years but the connection was reignited after Irina posted a photo from London in November 2013. Paul was working in that city then and they spent several days together and developed a strong bonding. 
 
 In 2015, Paul invited her to his home in India where he introduced her to his parents and proposed to her. In July 2015, they registered their marriage in Kochi.
 
 Says Irina: “I remember that day vividly because it was an unforgettable experience not only because I was the bride but also because I was getting married in another country. It was in a beautiful church not far from our home. Some traditions and customs were new but there were no major differences because we both belong to the Orthodox church. I was dressed in a white wedding gown which I brought from Moscow while Paul wore a black suit. Later, I changed to a sari and I felt like an oriental princess.”
 The couple are now settled in Kochi. She adds: “We communicate in English, so there is no language barrier between us. Of course, there are some differences but it is natural. I’ve learned to respect other people’s views and opinions more and to understand the values of another culture, to think in new ways and to take new decisions. I’ve started to understand myself and others better. Along with exploring a new culture I understood my own culture deeper.” 
 
 She remembers that on their first Valentine’s Day after marriage, Paul gifted her some “awesome jewellery” and she gave him a palette with their photos. “But we have 365 days in a year when everyone gets a chance to say ‘I love you’ to their beloved and family members."
 
 
 
 
 
 Avithal Elias Lautman describes her love story as a “very nerdy” one. She jokes that all her life, she prayed for a chance to study in IIT but God laughed and sent her to an IIT outside India. So, it was when both she and Ronen Shmuel Lautman were students of the Israel Institute of Technology that they met at a Diwali party organised by Avithal, a jew from Kochi. “He loved my channa masala and we kept bumping into each other since then. He even came for my thesis defence. He was always too shy to ask me out, even though it was obvious he liked me,” she says.
 
 Before one New Year's Eve, Avithal mustered the courage to ask him out, encouraged by her best friend Sara. “Luckily, he didn't have any plans. We went out for our first date on New Year’s Eve, and we talked the whole night. It was very romantic. I couldn’t wait to see him again. We made plans to have dinner the next night, and the rest is history.” They got married on October 5, 2015, and are settled in Haifa, Israel.
 She continues: “We embraced each other’s cultural differences, including food and family traditions. It was easy for us as we wanted more or less the same things from life and shared ideas about money, food, lifestyle and religion. Our parents were more excited and welcoming than we thought. His family never ever made me feel uncomfortable because of who I was. And my mom was always understanding with Ronen’s PDA. Also we never made fun of each other’s culture, but we did fight over the space agencies. Also he started eating with hands and learning Malayalam. I have already taught him to say, ‘ente bharya sundariya’. And he taught me how to eat with chopsticks. We love each more because of the cultural differences.”
 
 She adds: “On Valentine’s Day, we usually avoid restaurants as it can get crowded. We do make special food that day. It is usually only the two of us and that might include walks on beaches and a really good dinner. 
 
 We do tell every now and then how we appreciate each other for being there always and we do not wait for a special day to say ‘I love you’.
 
 
 
 
 
 They met first in Dhaka where Ganga Nimmy Jose Cheripuram was associated with a bank and looking for a renewable energy project for rural India through micro finance and Johannes Fischbeck was a manager in a German firm that provided energy solutions to the developing world.
 
 “My first impression of Joe was not so romantic as he was very reserved. If somebody would have told me then that he would be the man I was going to marry, I would have ran away at that moment itself,” says Ganga. He, however, was impressed with her socialising.
 The long car rides in the next three weeks changed the equations drastically. “We talked about our personal lives and realised that though representing vastly different cultures, we had a lot of common views. Still, it was the shock of my life, when he, after a week, confessed me that he liked me. I turned him down but one more week later, I found myself liking him too.”
 Soon it was time to part ways. Joe went to Tanzania for another project while Ganga returned to Kerala. Mails and skype followed, not all of it official.
 
 Three months later, they decided to get married. For Joe, it was a bit strange to marry a girl whom he knew for such a short period but getting married was the only way to be together. “Luckily, it was not so difficult to convince my family,” says Ganga.
 
 Six months after their first meeting, Joe came down to Kochi with his parents and best friend. The Germans were astonished to see the 500-strong crowd while the Indians thought it to be a modest wedding. “Joe still complains about the 300 photographs for which he was forced to smile.” 
 
 Ganga joined him in Berlin and found that language was a major barrier. There were other barriers too. “We are so different. Introvert to extrovert, writer to talker, reader to cook, musician to gardener, cycling to watching movies...We never share any hobbies. But then, we really compliment each other. We do all our holidays to household works together.” 
 
 Daughter Emma was born in India and they stayed on in Kochi. “So Joe started working as a renewable energy consultant in Kochi and I started a small business that deals with landscaping and terrariums. We enjoyed every moment of our six years in Kochi with lots of fun and fellowship.”
 
 She adds: “When it is time for Emma to start schooling, we came back to Germany and settled here now. In Joe's words, I am living physically here and mentally in Kerala. I continue my business in Kochi and am very well updated on all happenings in Kerala.”
 
 
 
