CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   on Tuesday granted interim bail to Dr  , one of the accused in the case of castrations of Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS) followers. Dera chief   is also an accused in the case.

 Fearing that CBI could arrest him, the 45-year-old Panchkula-based surgeon had approached the HC. He has to appear before the special CBI court on Wednesday. HC has also issued notice to the CBI seeking its reply by March 7 on the contentions raised by Garg.
 
 HC has order there would be stay on his arrest till then. In his plea before the HC, Dr Garg argued that he has not committed any offence and allegations in this case have been leveled after 12 years delay without any explanation. “Allegations in the FIR are vague and even not supported with any documentary evidence despite lengthy investigation by the CBI. Allegations in the FIR are also contradictory to investigation carried out by the agency. It may be case of suffering of hurt, not causing of hurt,” he argued pleading innocence.
 
 Claiming to be a renowned surgeon, he pleaded for directions to stay his arrest in the case as he had been summoned by the special CBI court in Panchkula to appear on Wednesday. A resident of Sector 15 in Panchkula, Dr Garg submitted that during the investigation of the case, he had fully cooperated the CBI and had made himself available to the investigation agency, whenever he was called.
 
 He also claimed that he had appeared before the CBI on three occasions in the past three years. On February 1, CBI had submitted chargesheet before special CBI court Haryana in Panchkula against dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and two doctors, Pankaj Garg and Dr M P Singh in relation to the castration of followers inside the dera.
 
 As per the chargesheet, a large number of followers were castrated at the behest of Gurmeet by Dr Garg and Dr Singh. While Gurmeet Ram Rahim and Dr Singh were already behind bars in relation to other offences, Dr Garg was never arrested. They have been charged under sections 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 417 (cheating) of the IPC.
 
 
