CHENNAI: Forget the political posturing over the   reducing Tamil Nadu’s share of   water by 14.75tmcft,   officials well-versed with the subject say the state would only benefit if the order is implemented in letter and spirit.

 As per the Supreme Court order, the Centre should set up an authority to manage release of water from   and Tamil Nadu should get its share based on the distress sharing formula. “If these are done, the state will benefit. But the big question is if they would be implemented,” said a senior bureaucrat.
 
 On an average, in the past 25 years, TN has been getting 243tmcft of water that is 25% more than the final award of the Cauvery water disputes tribunal, but most of this water has been released when it is monsoon in Tamil Nadu. “June-July is crucial for kuruvai (short crop), where — according to the tribunal — we should get 44tmcft, but we never get water when it is most needed,” says C Prakash, a farmer who was part of last year’s protest in Delhi.
 
 The water requirement for growing paddy for three crops, kuruvai, thaladi and long-term samba is high, but the cropping pattern suitable to the soil condition has been practised in the delta region for ages. The delta has met its requirements between February and July from groundwater, as surface flow despite tribunal award for those months were not adhered to.
 
 TN government sources say the voluntary release by Karnataka has been negligible in the last 25 years.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, 192 tmcft water used to be released from   to TN as per CWDT directions in this manner: 3 tmcft in January, 2.5 tmcft each in February, March, April and May, 8 tmcft in June, 34 in July, 50 in August, 40 in September, 22 in October and 15 in November. The SC said since the total release from Billigundulu has been reduced to 177.25 tmcft, the monthly releases would be proportionately reduced. Rejecting the Centre’s stand that it had discretion to frame a scheme for the implementation of the judgment allocating Cauvery waters, the CJI-led bench said: “We direct that a scheme shall be framed by the central government within a span of six weeks from today so that authorities under the scheme can see to it that the present decision which has modified the award passed by the tribunal is smoothly made functional and [the] rights of states as determined by us are appositely carried out.” It said no extension of the six weeks’ time frame would be granted on any ground.
 
 The SC said Karnataka cannot fault the 1892 and 1924 agreements with Tamil Nadu (earlier part of Madras Presidency) now as it never questioned them after Independence in 1947 nor after the formation of Karnataka in 1956. However, it said that since the 1924 agreement was contemplated to remain in existence for 50 years, it had expired in 1974.Rejecting the states’ arguments faulting the approach of CWDT, which was formed in 1990 and gave its award in 2007, the SC said, “We are of the opinion that the tribunal was correct in its approach.”
 
