Madurai: With Rajinikanth all set to launch his political party, his fan clubs are in the process of being integrated under one body. Madurai which has one of the highest numbers of mandrams, 1,400 to be exact, is to be integrated as one. 

 The Makkal Thalaivan Rajinikanth Thalamai Narpani Mandram was the first fan club which was started in 1977 in Madurai. The clubs slowly grew to over 600 clubs which has got official recognition and then over 700 more were approved by him. Each club has a minimum of 25 members with five office bearers, president, secretary, deputy secretary, treasurer and advisor.
 
 President of the Mandram S M Rabik said that he joined the fan club after Rajinikanth’s move ‘Aayiram jenmangal.’ “Though I had connections with various political parties, I never joined them and was always hoping Thalaivar would start a party,” he said.
 
 Rajini Mandram district secretary A Pandian said that they were going to begin their work with a special worship at Alagarkoil in Madurai, where they have decided to sacrifice goats and provide a feast to about 1,000 members on Jan 7. “Thalaivar said that he would like to provide us with a non-vegetarian feast, but was unable to do so because the meeting was held at Raghavendra mandapam. So we are fulfilling one of his wishes,” he said. There are over one lakh registered members in these mandrams and several lakhs more are coming to enroll now, including women, he added.
 
 They say thousands of youth, who were fans of the actor, were rearing to go and eagerly awaiting to be given a command. Mandrams in villages were also awaiting orders.
 
 The actor had asked them to chalk out a list of things that their region would want and accordingly they will be regular meeting in the mandram office at Anna Nagar in Madurai. “One of our first priorities is bringing industries to the region and also asking Thalaivar to bring the IT parks in Madurai into full-fledged operations,” said Pandian.
 
 “Madurai has more idly shops in all corners than industries, so we are going to ask him to take steps to create jobs for youngsters, which could result in bringing down the crime rate,” he said.
 
 Their integrated body would include thirteen unions, three urban bodies and the 100 wards of the Madurai Corporation. “We know the requirements of the wards, like the back of our hands as we have always been working with the people and meeting their requirements, and providing welfare measurers like sewing machines among others,” said Pandian.
 
 
