KOLKATA: The guardians of a south Kolkata school, which was rocked by sexual abuse allegations on November 30, will give shape to a guardians’ forum by applying to register it as a society on Monday. A meeting was held on Sunday to discuss the process. 

 The guardians will meet again on Tuesday to decide the forum’s office-bearers and move to formally petition before the state Registrar of Societies for enlistment. The formal application will then be given to the school. But the school has refused to react to the developments.
 
 Schools in Kolkata usually have some guardians or parents as part of the school managing committees, but a registered guardians’ forum under the 1961   may have manifold implications. The parents intend to submit a formal application for the society registration on Monday after paying the requisite fees. The money receipt, along with the meeting resolutions to form the forum, will be submitted to the school.
 
 One of the parents, Manasi Mukherjee, said, “The forum, as we envisage it, will play a key role in putting forth our collective demands before the school management. The guardians are also key stakeholders in any educational institution. The forum is not a disruptor, but an enabler for the long-term well-being of the school and its students.”
 
 During the meeting in  , it was decided that every class will have one representative among the guardians. For classes IX and above, which have only one section, there will be one guardian representative. The forum will first press for the speedy implementation of the security measures, including CCTV coverage, at the school. 
 
 The parents also resolved to stand by the father of the four-year-old girl who was reportedly abused by two teachers. 
 
 “It was that incident which led to the events today. The meeting also reaffirmed our support to the child’s parents. We demand exemplary punishment for the accused teachers. If need be, we will also petition chief minister  , demanding justice,” said a parent. 
 
 The girl’s father is likely to send a legal notice to the school seeking a transfer certificate. 
 
 
