CHANDIGARH: A delay in the repair of almost two-decade-old sewage and water pipelines has turned out to be a major reason for water crisis in various areas of the city.

 Residents of Sectors 19, 22, 30, 34, and 35, besides  , has for the past more than a year asking for the replacement of old pipelines but all in vain. At some places, the pipelines were replaced after the intervention of the area councillors but still there is no proper water pressure in the residential zones.
 
 A 2011 report prepared by the MC’s public health department states that the existing pipelines in old sectors, including 18, 19, 20, 22, and 23, need to be replaced urgently, since the distribution lines have worn out and outlived their guaranteed period. Frequently, it leads to leakage and breakage, causing sewage spill and loss of precious water. The report further states that all these pipelines were laid in the 1950’s or 1960’s, and there was no instrument available to detect leakage or bursting of the pipelines below the surface.
 
 The municipal corporation records show that these water pipes were installed in the residential areas of Manimajra almost 25 years ago. Ignoring its own reports, the civic authorities have been trying to resolve the issues by repairing or replacing small sections of the pipelines laid below the city. The water pipes have rusted and developed serious holes. On the complaints of residents, the municipal corporation teams even do temporary repair of the pipelines but the leakage returns time and again, flooding the parks and swamping the streets.
 
 On the past one month or so, pipes have burst in many sectors as the water pressure increased.   resident welfare association (RWA) president Colonel   said the public health department of the corporation used to send over repair teams to fix the Manimajra water pipelines but every time they expressed their helplessness to get it fixed permanently. “The workers told us it was no longer possible to weld these pipelines. Every time, they came for repair, they dig up the neighbourhood parks that the residents have maintained with such hard work.”
 
 Sector-40 resident and   secretary S K Khosla said: “Despite the sufficient availability of water, the residents experience water shortage because many hydrants and pipelines in the city remain leaking for days. Unfortunately, there is no check of this wastage.”
 
 In the dock
 
 The civic authorities are in the process of replacing the city’s sewerage pipelines in phases. Recently, we approved a proposal from Sector 47 for the replacement of pipelines. We have complaints coming in from the Industrial Area as well and been dealing with these on priority. It’s only when the leakage comes up to the ground that we come to know that the pipeline has punctured. Otherwise, the department had no gadget to detect what’s going on under the surface. The field staff has orders to keep monitoring the situation
 
  | MC chief engineer
 
 
