MOHALI: Nearly 3,000   cases are reported in   every year, but the   has no count of dogs, stray or pet, in the town. 

 While   and Chandigarh have data on the number of stay dogs, the exercise is yet to start in Mohali. That’s not all. The district administration and Mohali MC are not on the same page when it comes to carrying out the exercise. 
 
 While MC joint commissioner  , when contacted, said the civic body had written to the administration to get a count of   in the district, including the town, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur   said she was not aware of any such letter.
 
 Stray dogs happen to be a menace on Mohali streets. Last year, nearly 3,000 dog bite cases were reported in the town and the number is expected to increase this year. According to Mohali senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Surinder Singh, the town’s civil hospital in Phase VI receives 8-10 cases daily. “Serious cases are referred to PGIMER or other, bigger hospitals,” he said.
 
 Avneet Kaur said they would be seeking an approval of the MC house to start registration of pet dogs in the town. While Sapra expressed indifference over the letter, she said the administration would help the MC in carrying out the census of stray dogs if assistance had been sought. “Though, primarily, it is the job of the MC to get the count conducted,” she said. A source in the MC’s sanitation department estimated the number of stray dogs in town at 4,500-5,000. 
 
 The figure, if true, is much lower than that of Chandigarh. According to a census in 2011, there were 8,000 stray dogs in Chandigarh. In Panchkula, there were over 4,500 stray dogs in the same year.
 
 Earlier, Mohali MC had outsourced the project of sterilization of stray dogs and the same company was also asked to conduct a count of stray dogs. The company also had to identify areas where maximum stray dog bite cases are reported in town. But, all this is yet to be done. To date, MC has sterilized 1,835 stray dogs since June 2017. Of these, 905 are male and 930 female, said Avneet Kaur. 
 
 
