Thiruvananthapuram: While questions are being raised on the effective implementation of city corporation’s Rs 3 crore   (animal birth control) project, a   has taken the route of crowd-funding for ABC and ARV (anti-rabies vaccination).

  A pet care NGO named ‘Street Dog Watch’, founded by a British couple Steve and Mary Muscroft, has started raising money through a crowd-funding campaign with an aim to expand their animal birth control/anti-rabies vaccination (ABC/ARV) clinic. The aim is to develop a puppy house and a dog retirement home, all under one roof. The campaign, which began on April 20, targets to raise Rs 9 lakh collecting Rs 300 each as donation from the public in three months.
 
 “There are so many dog lovers but when it comes to ensuring welfare of the animals only a few come forward. Our main focus is on animal birth control. So far, we have sterilized around 1,500 dogs. Vaccination was given to around 2,400 animals. We now take care of 94 dogs at our home and it will be difficult to accommodate more animals with our limited facilities. We need more funds to run our activities on a larger property,” said Mary Muscroft.
 
 The Muscrofts’s more 4,000 Facebook followers help them in fund-raising. Within a week of announcing the proposal, they received Rs 23,450.
 
 The couple, who visited Kerala a decade ago, has made Kovalam their home only because of their love and affection for  . In 2013, the Muscrofts officially launched their NGO Street Dog Watch with a vision of rescuing, vaccinating and sterilizing stray dogs. At present they have 94 dogs and three cats. The NGO rescues and rehabilitates dogs and also cares for injured and disabled animals. Currently the NGO is running the ABC and ARV programmes with the help of some private sponsors.
 
 A year ago, the couple had put forward a proposal before government bodies such as district tourism promotion councils, local self-government department and city corporation for help. “Initially local residents were not that supportive, but now they also help us in rounding up the dogs. We are still in talks with the government authorities. We have requested them to pay per dog for the sterilization project. We are hoping for a positive reply from the authorities,” said Mary.
 
 
