

 2004 was the year I decided to love a boy who very clearly did not love me back. It was the year Bridget   had a joyous ecstasy trip in the ocean, calling into question everything our health teacher told us about drugs.
 
 And 2004 was the year that the phrase ‘DPS MMS’ entered our collective consciousness.
 
 The   scandal, as it came to be known, was a grainy video shot on a mobile phone and shared via Multimedia Messaging Service — the only way to send a picture or a video between mobile phones back then. The video, 2 minutes and 37 seconds long, featured a teenage couple from   engaging in oral sex. Or, to be more accurate, it featured a schoolgirl giving her boyfriend a blowjob. He shot the video; we never saw his face.
 
 The video went viral, and this was back when viral was the reason you got to stay home from school and watch  . The footage was circulated widely and eventually uploaded on to the internet, where it was cached, copied and stored for all eternity. The video unearthed what had been carefully buried: the knowledge that our children — and most significantly, our girls — were doing ‘those kinds of things’. The kinds of things relegated to the evil influences of the Western world. The kinds of things you saw in pornos featuring white people. The kind of things that had absolutely nothing to with the purity of upper-caste, upper-class Indian Culture.
 
 Middle-class India masked its fears under self-righteous outrage — but it was too late. The video was out there, and no number of indignant protests could stop it from being watched over and over again. The film industry picked up on it and has been running with the idea ever since. Aside from making a movie centering on the case (Dev D) and one focusing on similar cases (Love, Sex Aur Dhokha), Bollywood rode a wave that made the word ‘MMS’ itself synonymous with an illicit, racy pleasure. (Think Ragini MMS Or Ragini MMS 2.) It gave ‘caught on camera’ a new meaning in a new digital India, and that meaning was here to stay.
 Just like Cadbury’s was a synonym for chocolate in pre-liberalization India, DPS MMS came to serve as a stand-in for all sexy, homemade videos. This also changed the way Indians saw technology. After 2004, digital technology was transformed into something that simultaneously opened twin doors. First, to new atrocities, and second, to new scandalous pleasures.
 
 And in this way, the purveyors of morality ignored what the DPS MMS case was actually about: a devastating violation of consent.
 
  Till very recently, I never bothered to close the curtains while undressing. My attitude was, and in many ways still is, I don’t care if they see me. Of all the things I am concerned about, passers-by catching a glimpse of my bare bum is at the very bottom of the list.
 
 My partner took a very different approach, though, and spent a lot of time racing me to the bedroom to pull down the blinds before my thinly towelled ass made it in there. I found it unnecessary at the best of times, and irritating the rest of the time. I walk out on to the same road in dresses that cover less of me than this towel, so why on earth does it matter?
 
 But then he pointed out something that gave me pause for thought (not that I admitted it to him): one of these gazes took place on my terms; the other did not.
 When I leave the house, dressed to the nines, people on the busy street are looking at me. And while I don’t welcome their stares, I’m still being seen on my own terms. To an extent I control their gaze, at least in that I am aware of it, and that a certain framing of my body — a framing that I have created myself — is being seen.
 
 But when someone surreptitiously watches you, they ‘catch’ you in a moment that is vulnerably and specifically yours. Your top is stuck around your neck, you frown at your underwear drawer, you scratch your thigh. You have not framed this shot and you didn’t agree to it; in fact, you are most likely not aware that an image of you is being created at all.
 
 For women, the experience of being watched, or surveilled, is frighteningly routine. Men watch us — on buses, in bars, in our own homes — and this experience is built into the fabric of our lives. So much so that we often brush it off, because if we didn’t, we’d drown under all those prying eyes.
 
 The phrase ‘stolen glances’ is one I think of a lot here. Their glance steals something from you, and that something has nothing to do with virtue and modesty, and everything to do with power.
 
 For everyone, but for women and minorities in particular, the fight to control how we are seen is closely linked to our bodily and sexual autonomy. So when the frame takes a more permanent form — like a photograph or a video — the power equation intensifies too. As Susan Sontag writes in On Photography, ‘To photograph is to appropriate the thing photographed. It means putting oneself into a certain relation to the world that feels like knowledge — and therefore, like power.’
 And if you capture someone who can’t see the trap you’re laying down — someone who doesn’t agree to the terms of the image you’re creating — the act of framing, looking or photographing can be one of violence.
 
 And with the entry of digital technology into our everyday lives, this violence is extending into new battlegrounds. From photos uploaded by jilted lovers to a live feed from a clothing store’s changing room to a rape video circulating on WhatsApp, illegally acquired images are the result of a complete disregard for the subjects of the content and whether or not they wanted to be anyone’s masturbatory fantasy.
 
 And the subjects are almost always women.
 
 
 
 
