CHENNAI:   is perceived to be a water-intensive activity but a team of researchers from the   has shown that this is a myth by devising a low-cost method to reduce water consumption in paddy fields.

 Prof V K  , a member of the team, told TOI that 1.82 million hectares of paddy is grown annually in the state for which 1,200 cubic millimetres of water is required per hectare. To reduce water consumption without decreasing the yield, the team adopted an alternate wetting and drying method. In this method, irrigation water is used resulting in the farm land getting flooded and non-flooded alternately. The number of days of non-flooded soil between irrigations can vary from one to more than five, depending upon soil type, weather and crop growth stage, he said.
 
 The method is generally implemented using PVC pipes. However, a TNAU researcher who is also part of the Center of Excellence for Change Amishi Nayar instead used perforated 2 litre water bottles hammered into the soil in the four corners of the field, with 15 cm protruding above. The soil from the top portion is removed and a float is dropped. When the water is released, the float stays on top. As the water level goes down, the float also dips. When the land is parched, the float is at the bottom indicating that the land requires water, which the farmer can release. There is no need for paddy to be soaked in water, which actually reduces the yield, Ravichandran said.
 
 Apart from reduced water consumption, which means reduced power use for pumping water, the technique is also more affordable as the device costs only Rs 30 compared to nearly Rs 600 per PVC pipe. Another benefit is that it does not involve the emission of greenhouse gases damaging the ozone layer, unlike the water soaking method.
 
 Ravichandran and his team have set up the device on a trial basis on land belonging to 50 farmers in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and   districts. The team is planning to scale up this technique soon and has launched an app for farmers to understand and use it, he added.
 
