SHIMLA: The second oldest printing press in India, set up 146 years ago in 1872 in Shimla, is being shut down by the  .

 The Government of India Press at Shimla, perhaps one of the last surviving big letter printing presses in the world, played a vital role for the colonial government during the World War II and it was here that copies of the Constitution of India were printed.
 
 “It is a matter of pride for us that copies of the Constitution of India were printed in this press. We still have a copy of the first print edition preserved with us. In the last 146 years, this printing press has rendered great service to nation, the Government of India should reconsider its decision to close down this printing press,” said Mohan Dutt Sharma, president, Government of India Press Workers’ Union, Shimla, who along with other employees is opposing the decision to shut down this printing press.
 
 The   is being merged with the Government of India Press in Mayapuri, New Delhi, and all the personnel posted in Shimla are being shifted to this press in New Delhi. However, the Shimla press employees are not happy with this decision. “We are demanding that the order of December 5, 2017 regarding the mass transfers of 90 employees should be withdrawn and the printing press should not be shut down,” the union’s Shimla general secretary Rajinder Singh said.
 
 The Union Cabinet in 2002 took a decision that the Shimla and Gangtok presses as well as the   should be closed down, five presses should be merged, three textbook presses should be transferred to the state government and the remaining 12 Government of India Printing Presses should be retained and modernised. Last year, the Centre decided to implement this decision.
 
 The protesters said a delegation led by Shimla MP Virender Kashyap had met Union minister of state for urban development Hardeep Singh Puri on the issue. The protesters have formed a “Citizens’ Forum” to fight against the Centre’s decision to shut down this historic printing press.
 
 The history of the Government of India presses dates to 1862 when the British colonial government established a central printing office at Calcutta and later added the unit at Shimla in 1872. The press at  , was originally established at Calcutta as the Press of the Private Secretary to the Viceroy. This was shifted to Delhi after the British India’s capital was moved from Calcutta.
 
 Shimla-based historian   said the   at Shimla is perhaps among the last surviving big letter printing presses in the world. He said the Shimla press has an enormous historical value. “Upper case and lower case letters were used in printing here and today old type printing press are rare to find. Printing presses using big letters are found nowhere in the world today,” he said.
 
 Urging the government to convert the press into a museum, Bhasin said old machines at the press will be a great source of knowledge for the new generation. Before Independence, all major documents, including secret documents were being printed from Shimla, he said, adding that from an architectural point of view, the residence of the manager of the printing press is the most attractive building in Shimla.
 
 
