SHIMLA: Taking into consideration the tough topographical conditions of state, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Thursday decided to introduce free   to be operated by Heli-mission Switzerland with the assistance of Lady Willingdon Hospital, Manali. The decision is being seen as a step in strengthening the health transport services and timely air lifting of patients, particularly from remote and tribal regions of the state.
 
  
 
 Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presided over the meeting in which approval was given to set up health care transformation project — TATA Digital Nerves Centre Platform (DiNC) — in Kullu district. DiNC is a service led platform model and facilitates to and fro communication between patients, hospitals and doctors irrespective of their geographical locations. It helps screening basic symptoms, facilitates doctor consultations and to send alerts for follow-up and manages records of the patients.
 
 The cabinet also gave its nod to fill up 1,235 posts of transport multi-purpose assistants in  . It accorded approval to fill up 200 posts of clerks in state secretariat administration department (SAD) on contract basis through direct recruitment and 25 posts of junior scale stenographer in SAD on contract basis.
 
 It was also decided to fill up 100 posts of junior engineer (civil) and 20 posts of junior engineer (mechanical), 25 posts of assistant engineer (civil) and two posts of assistant engineer (electrical) in public works department on contract basis. It also approved to fill up two posts of consultant and two of data entry operator under state medicinal plants board in ayurveda department. Approval was also given to upgrade civil hospital Nurpur in Kangra district to 200-bed hospital along with creation of additional 42 posts of different categories.
 
 The cabinet also decided to fill up seven posts of different categories for the establishment of programme management unit in ayurveda department sponsored by Ayush ministry. It accorded approval to open new state-of-art industrial training institute at Chhatari in Thunag tehsil of Mandi district besides creating requisite posts of different categories to man the institute. It decided that gram panchayat veterinary assistants who have completed as five years of service will be brought under contract. 
 
 It gave its approval to purchase 26 new ambulances under National   Service-08 as replacement to facilitate the patients.
 
 
