TRICHY: Tension prevailed at the offices of the troubled telecommunication operator, Aircel, across Trichy as customers frustrated at their inability to process mobile number portability (MNP) blocked the roads here on Tuesday. They had grown restless since Monday afternoon on coming to know that the branch offices of the bankrupt service provider had been remaining closed.

 A large number of people waiting outside the locked Aircel offices said that they felt impaired without mobile network as their numbers were linked to Aadhaar, LPG and bank accounts. The public also vented their anger at the governments and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) for not doing enough to address their connectivity issue.
 
 D Manikandan, a resident of  , said, “After standing in serpentine queues outside the Aircel office for hours on Monday, I was handed over a token by an executive asking me to visit on Tuesday. But the Aircel offices across the city remained closed on Tuesday.” 
 
 People hailing from rural areas were the most affected as they are not tech savvy enough to opt for MNP facility that helps retain a mobile number by switching to the network of another telecom service provider. 
 
 They said that they heavily relied on Aircel offices as individual efforts to opt for MNP had gone in vain multiple times.
 
 The customers were also worried over the fact that they were missing SMS alerts sent from the banks every time a withdrawal was made through ATMs. Hence, they were unable to monitor the activity in their bank accounts. 
 
 “Since MNP could not be carried out by Aircel users for two days now, we have requested the Trai to direct other telecom service providers including BSNL to process the mobile porting requests in bulk. This could ease the situation to an extent,” M Sekaran, member,  , said.
 
 With no technical support coming even after waiting for hours outside the Aircel offices, the anxious mobile subscribers resorted to road roko at the Salai road near Thillai Nagar on Tuesday morning. Subsequently, the Woraiyur and Thillai Nagar police personnel rushed to the spot and pacified the protesters.
 
  “We could not reach the Aircel executives. But we managed to rope in a few executives from other telecom service providers to help the people waiting outside Aircel offices to perform mobile number porting formalities,” said a police source. Though the protest was withdrawn after the peace talk, there was no in the crowd outside the locked offices on Royals road, Thillai Nagar and Salai road throughout the day.
 
 
