HYDERABAD: Terming the Union budget as pro-development and pro-poor,   state president K   said the NDA government made allocations considering all sectors while allocating the amount for agriculture, health and welfare sectors. He said the government has been making efforts to ensure benefits reach the needy through direct benefit transfer eliminating middlemen. Laxman said farmers will now get minimum support price irrespective of their crops. 

 "About 10 crore poor families will get health insurance of 5 lakh each. This will ensure a healthy India," Laxman said. 
 
 He said the state was not getting adequate additional funds as the money allocated was not being utilized. tnn 
 
  Hyderabad: Senior   leader and leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council, Md Ali Shabbir, has charged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government with once again failing to get any benefits from the Centre in the Union budget-2018 despite supporting the BJP-led NDA government on demonetisation,  , President and Vice-President elections. 
 
 "The   government has failed to exert pressure on the central government to get allocations for Bayyaram steel factory, railway coach factory at Kazipet , 4,000 MW power plant at Ramagundam, AIIMS and national project status to Kaleswaram. Why is CM   silent despite the BJP-led government doing injustice to Telangana in the budget? Even the TRS MPs did not raise their voice against the injustice in Parliament," Shabbir added. 
 
 "All opposition parties, including some NDA partners, got funds and schemes from the Centre for their respective states, but KCR and TRS had failed to even get what is due to the people of Telangana as per the State Reorganisation Act," Shabbir added.
 
 Though the economic survey indicated that negative impact of demonetisation and GST had come to an end, the cascading effect of steep petrol fuel prices still continue to affect the common man adversely. They had ruined small and medium-sized enterprises, he added.
 
 Shabbir said the BJP-led NDA government has failed to not only dig out black money, but also failed to meet its commitments to Jandaan accounts of poor people, particularly farmers and small traders. 
 
 Union finance minister   focussed on granting sops to eight states scheduled to go to polls in 2018, but neglected demands and assurances given to Telangana during bifurcation of the state by Centre.
 
 
