Panaji: International charter flights looking to fly to Goa could have smooth landing next season as the   is considering an online system for application and allotment of landing and take-off slots. AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra said on Friday that the online flight slot allocation system would bring in transparency and time-bound approvals for charter flight operators and airlines. 

 The move is likely to make life easier for ITP (inclusive tour package) operators. “That is the basic requirement for them,” Mohapatra said. 
 
 AAI officials said that currently, requests for flight slots are dealt with through physical applications, and charter operators often complain about slots allotted.
 
 In 2017, even 15 days before the charter season began in October, AAI had yet to finalize allotment of slots for chartered flights at Goa airport. 
 
 In the absence of dedicated slots, sources say that international charter flight operators turn apprehensive and are unable to market tickets to passengers in the UK, Russia, and Scandinavian countries.
 
 The new system should be in place by next year. “Perhaps by the next tourist season, operators will have the facility,” Mohapatra said. “The online system would be more transparent and it would definitely expedite things.” Currently, the two concerns with the system are that things are not very transparent and you have to run from pillar to post. With the new system, “this will not happen”, says Mohapatra. 
 
 Mohapatra was at the Goa international airport to inaugurate a new airport operations control center, which would enable real-time information about flights operations, ground handling processes, and resource utilization.
 
 Queried about the impact of the greenfield international airport at   on operations at the civilian enclave at  , Mohapatra acceded that airlines may consider operating out of the new airport being built by GMR Airports. However, Mohapatra said that there was enough air passenger demand for both   to sustain.
 
 “There will be one airport for the north and one airport in the south. It is quite possible that some of the flights coming to our airport will go there, or the same airline may start two different flights, one to Mopa and one to Dabolim,” the AAI chairman said.
 
 
