American inventor   nailed it when he pointed at creativity being lost out of the Indian academic system. He was not wrong when he said that in the process of looking for good jobs, the hunger for creativity has taken a backseat.

 
 Google CEO   had echoed similar views in December 2017 and the   (UNDP) in 2014, had ranked India 66 out of 140 countries in terms of local dynamics of innovation.
 
 Educationists have time and again, blamed social conditioning for the disparity. Parents, especially in smaller cities, want their children to choose mathematics and biology over humanities, to secure a professional degree.
 
 "I come from a small city and, most certainly, people expected me to study biology or mathematics. But I did not change my path as I knew what I wanted. My friends were pressured to be doctors or engineers,"  , a law graduate, tells Education Times. She adds, "We have a mindset to give preference to a job that gives monetary gain over satisfaction or passion. This must change to bring in creativity"
 
 "I have seen very intelligent students not having had a great future, because they got into a mundane routine of a 9-to-5 job. Creativity takes a backseat when money becomes a priority," says  , a teacher from a Gurugram-based private school.
 
 "I never wanted to be an engineer, but I took up because I can switch careers in between. I could have taken up arts but was not too convinced," says  , an engineering student.
 
 The transition is seen more among engineering students where 30% of students switch to non-technical courses or jobs such as media, advertising, corporate communications and more.
 
 Vamsi Krishna, an IIT graduate, transitioned into entrepreneurship and co-founded, Vedantu, with three other alumni  ,   and Anand Prakash.
 
 Krishna blames the mad rush for a good job to the socio-economic fabric of the country, where people want job security more than creativity. "What Wozniak talked about is true for any developing economy," he said.
 
 "Few years ago, Americans ran after financial security because it was then a developing economy. India, being where it is, is quite naturally following this curve and a few years down the line, we will drift towards arts," Krishna says.
 
 "This also depends on the awareness levels. Engineering or medicine seem to be the easiest way out to earn well. The new generation, however is learning the alternative jobs which are equally lucrative. The US has already gone through this transition, and India is going through it," he adds. 
 
 
 
 
 
