NEW DELHI: The   is considering a B Division of   to accommodate all the associate state associations in the national league. The idea was discussed at the technical committee’s meeting in Kolkata last Saturday. If the proposal is ratified in the next general body meeting, the division will see Bihar, five north-eastern states and Puducherry competing against each other.

 
 
 
 The   committee has recommended that all states should come under the ambit of BCCI with equal voting rights. In January, the court had also directed the board to accommodate Bihar in the Ranji Trophy. The BCCI’s move is aimed at maintaining a balance in competition with new teams coming in.
 
 
 
 “These teams have no experience of playing at the highest level. There could be heavy mismatches and some matches could degrade the standard of the Ranji Trophy. It is better these teams play at a slightly lower level and get promoted in a few years,” a top BCCI official told TOI.
 
 “There are other issues as well. These states will be getting full grant from the board, which is a hefty amount, but they don’t have much of an infrastructure to maintain or build. Then there will be issues of sourcing players from other states and getting domicile certificates made. The purpose of strengthening the sport among the locals will not be served,” the official added. The other problem is that these states don’t have proper stadiums yet.
 
 Sources close to the development said that the matter was initially raised to just get Bihar back into the premier league since the local association had filed a petition in the court. The other members were of the opinion that if Bihar was inducted in the premier league just because they have filed a court case, then the other states would also follow the same route.
 
 “Anyway, at the junior level tournaments last season, they seemed lost in the field. Their performances will improve gradually. The basis of relegation and promotion could be figured out if the idea is ratified by the general body,” the official reckoned.
 
 Irani Cup to be played as usual: Board officials also clarified that the Irani Cup - played between Ranji champions and the Rest of India - will happen as usual this season contrary to reports which claimed the match may have been done away with. “The board’s press release didn’t mention the Irani Cup but it will be played after the Ranji Trophy. The board only released the proposed changes,” a BCCI official said.
 
