LUDHIANA: Stand off over seat sharing in the wards of East constituency for the coming municipal corporation elections has led to a logjam between the   (AAP) and   (LIP). Both parties had fought the 2017 assembly elections after forging an alliance. With the LIP leaders raising a demand for fielding candidates from some wards in East constituency, the   leaders are seeking representation for their candidates from Atam Nagar and South constituencies, which were represented by the LIP in assembly polls. 

 With the local leaders unable to resolve the issue, all eyes are now on the state-level meeting to be held in Chandigarh on Friday where a decision is expected to be taken in the matter. During the assembly elections, the East and West constituencies were with AAP candidates while Atam Nagar, South, Central and North were with the LIP. 
 
 Earlier a meeting of the local leaders from both parties had taken place on Wednesday evening. It is learnt that the AAP had expressed willingness to field its candidates from Atam Nagar and South constituencies after which LIP leader Simarjit Singh   had asked them to provide a list of candidates. According to sources, the AAP list looked stronger than LIP list of candidates resulting in a stalemate. 
 
 While the LIP agreed upon sharing six seats with AAP from Central and North constituencies, for West constituency too LIP leaders stated that the AAP could field its candidates for all wards but the problem aggravated when they demanded seven tickets in the East constituency in lieu of six seats in Central and North constituencies. 
 
 The sources also revealed that both party heads have taken in writing from their candidates that decision by the party high commands would be accepted to them. Meanwhile, AAP district president   said the state-level leadership had been apprised of the situation and a decision would be taken accordingly in the coming days. 
 
 However AAP state co-president Aman   said differences among the leaders in the alliance parties could be tackled and on Friday they would discuss the issue in detail. Arora added that the leaders were hopeful that the issue would be resolved in this meeting. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bains claimed there were no issues with regards to the seat sharing and said they would reach a final decision in the meeting on Friday. “We will announce strong candidates to give a tough fight to the opposition parties,” he said.
 
 
