Seven years have passed since the Pune Cantonment Board ( ) demolished the police chowkey at the Golibar Maidan chowk, but the men in uniform are yet to be provided with land for setting up of a new facility.

  
  
 
 The situation is making life much difficult for the policemen manning traffic at the congested chowk, as they have no place to take shelter.
 
 A new chowkey, however, cannot come up at the spot again because of the construction of a compound wall and installation of a statute of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.
 
 The Golibar Maidan police chowkey was one of the over 20 such facilities the British had set up to keep a check on the movement of the revolutionaries since 1895. Once India became independent, the control of the chowkeys was gradually taken over by the   for maintaining law and order.
 
 Five chowkeys were handed over to the   traffic branch for managing traffic as the city started growing fast due to rapid urbanization. 
  On the demolition of the chowkey, retired additional director general of police Rajendra   said, “The British-era chowkey was initially used by the Wanowrie police station before it was handed over to the traffic branch. The road was raised after years of tarring, The chowkey remained at a lower elevation. The structure made of Deccan Trap stones, wood and Mangalore tiles was in a dilapidated condition. It was decided to demolish the chowkey because of the increase in the number of vehicles. The road had become narrow and motorists coming from Kondhwa were facing difficulties in taking a left turn towards Swargate.”
 
 Golibar Maidan chowk links traffic to M G Road, East Street, the Mahatma Gandhi bus terminus at Pulgate and Indira Gandhi road. It also connects motorists to Pune-Satara and   highways.
 
 Traffic through the crossing is heavy round the clock, while the annual Palkhi processions passed through the area as well.
 
 Sonawane said, “The stone structure of the chowkey was intact, but its roof developed leaks. The police personnel faced tough time during monsoon. The Pune Police should immediately take up the issue of having an alternative space for opening a new chowkey with the PCB and the Defence Estates Office, Pune circle.”
 
 PCB elected member Vinod Mathurawala claimed that the chowkey was demolished after consent from the Pune police. “The cantonment board had offered a space on the Sardar Vallabhai Patel Cantonment General Hospital premises, but the traffic police did not like it. Since then, the issue has been pending because the police and the board officials could not reach any consensus,” he said.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale said, “We are checking records and correspondences made between the police and the PCB in the past. The British-era chowkey was located at a prime location. We will pursue the matter with the board officials and will appeal to them to construct a new chowkey at an alternative site around the Golibar Maidan chowk at the earliest.”
 
 
