CHENNAI: Weaving a strong political message in a speech that focussed largely on the making of his latest starter 'Kaala', aspiring politician and superstar   on Wednesday said time was not yet ripe to unveil his political plan. 

 He insisted that the film was not "political" and that he had turned down a script narrated to him by Oscar award-nominee Vetrimaran because it had strong political overtones. 
 
 At the audio release of his upcoming film 'Kaala', songs of which are loaded with political content, Rajinikanth said, "The good time (to announce my political plan) has not come yet. What can I do? With God's blessings and the support of the people, good times for Tamils will be possible."
 
 'Kaala' songs include numbers such as 'urimayai meetpom (we will win back our rights, our right is the land), 'nikal nikal', 'sema weightu' and 'theruvilakku'. 
 
 The songs espouse the cause of the downtrodden, but Rajini insisted that "Kaala is not a political film. There is only a little bit of politics in it."
 
 The song ' ' has the lines, "We can never bow under anybody, our lives will not be laid down before we reclaim our rights; rise up, question authority; fear will get us nowhere. This is your nest."
 
 Rajinikanth began his speech by recalling the success of his film ' ' (2007). 
 
 "I remember Dr Kalaignar's speech (during the function to mark its successful run). I can never forget his voice and what he said that day. I pray to god that I will hear Kalaignar's voice again. When Vetrimaran narrated his script, Rajinikanth felt that the film was so political that it may confuse his fans. "I had not decided about my political plunge then," added Rajini.
 
 Sounding a warning to his political opponents, Rajini said, "Believe only the smart ones. The ones who are trying to be too smart will flee in fear from us."
 
 Earlier, actor  , who is the producer of the film, said Rajini must be the next chief minister. As Rajini fans cheered, Dhanush, his son-in-law, said, "Today he is our leader, tomorrow?" 
 
 Rajini declared that his dream is to link all the rivers in south India. "I agreed to K S  's 'Lingaa' (2014) because it was about a man who built a dam to tackle the water scarcity faced by his people. My dream is to link all rives in south India. I do not mind dying to achieve it," he said.
 
 The actor concluded his speech with a small story. "There was a bunch of frogs trying to scale an impossible wall. All other frogs gave up, but one managed to scale the wall. The frog was deaf and was not discouraged by the voices of dissent. I am that deaf frog. I will keep rising no matter what comes my way."
 
 
