VIJAYAWADA: The ruling TDP will continue to fight for the demands of Andhra Pradesh, while discussing the formulae being chalked out by the Union government. Interacting with the media, AP TDP president   said that they wanted a time-frame for the promises made by the BJP government to be delivered. He said that they were seeking fulfilment of the promises made in the   Reorganisation Act.

 The TDP even circulated a counter note to the statistics given by AP BJP president K Harbabu. Andhra Pradesh planning board vice chairman dubbed the note given by the BJP as a cinema script and said that the saffron party should show when they had released funds. The TDP is keen on cornering the BJP on how AP would be given a special status, which will include tax incentives, concessions in excise and customs, and income and corporate taxes in line with other states, which were enjoying these benefits.
 
 A development package for backward districts, in line with Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput (KBK) region and Bundelkhand on the basis of per capita was promised. Also promised were making Polavaram a national project and ensuring that RNR package was also included. The TDP argues that the RR is not being considered by the Union government, neither the funds spent by the state government till now on the project are being completely reimbursed.
 
 Revenue deficit of the state government at the time bifurcation has not yet been reimbursed completely and the TDP rank and file is now confronting the BJP for not talking about the issue of railway zone for Visakhapatnam. Funds for Amaravati is another major demand of the TDP.
 
 However, the attack on the BJP continued on Sunday not only by the TDP but also by various other players. Tollywood actor Shivaji tweeted, asking when did BJP MPs speak for the state in Parliament. CPI state leader of Ramakrishna demanded that BJP MPs and ministers from the state resign.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP minister of state in the Union cabinet RK Singh, who visited Machilipatnam on Sunday, claimed that the Centre had released more funds to AP than to any other state.
 
 
