CHANDIGARH: The   (PHRO) headed by Justice Ajit Singh   (retd) has given documents to DGP Suresh Arora submitting that the alleged rape survivor had turned hostile against former minister Sucha Singh Langah after he facilitated transfer of the controversial land back in her name on January 9. Justice Bains has sought a high level probe in the case submitting that the woman has committed perjury “after taking bribe/consideration and even denied scientific evidence”. He also alleged that his information proves that the rape case complainant was paid huge amount to depose in favour of Langah before the court.
 
 “It is also learnt the victim had taken Rs 25 lakh from the political opponent of Langah to release the said video during the Lok Sabha byelections of   constituency and later on at the time of deposing in favour of accused during trial, the so called victim had taken Rs 2 crore, in addition to the money which Sucha Singh Langah was not returning to her,” Justice Bains submitted.
 
 It was on September 29, 2017, that an FIR on allegation of rape was registered against Langah at police station Gurdaspur city on the complaint of a female employee of   police. The complainant had alleged that Langah had raped her for years on the pretext of providing job. She also alleged financial embezzlement by Langah during their relation. 
 
 The complainant had also produced a video recording to prove Langah’s sexual acts with her and had recorded her statement before the judicial magistrate. It was also mentioned in the FIR that one acre land of the complainant was sold to one   Sohal for Rs 30 lakh on January 9, 2015, on the pretext to arrange plot at Chandigarh by Langah. But the complainant submitted that out of sale amount only Rs 4.50 lakh were paid to her and rest were kept by Langah. 
 
 Whereas on February 28, during the case trial, the complainant turned hostile denying any illicit relation with Langah, making of video, and later handing it over to the police.
 
 Justice Bains has submitted that his organization has received important documents, including sale deed of the one acre plot dated January 9 in the name of complainant. The sale deed mentions that Rs 8 lakh has been paid by the complainant to Gurdev Singh “but the mode of payment is not mentioned which shows that the same is not paid.” Justice Bains has also submitted that it appears that the purchaser lady being a government employee has also not taken permission from the government before purchase of land. He has submitted “from the very beginning, the facts of the case are very suspicious”.
 
 
