BENGALURU:   police have registered a case of rape and cheating against the owner of a cyber café, who befriended a woman, secretly filmed their   and threatened to   on the internet when she asked him to marry her.

 The 29-year-old woman had visited the café in Nandini Layout to upload the form for a ration card, but allegedly fell victim to the guile of the owner, Rakesh Gowda B R. Gowda reportedly fled when the woman approached police on Saturday. 
 
 The woman said she first visited the café “a few years ago”. Gowda obtained her mobile number, saying he would inform her once the ration card was ready. The two then began calling each other and soon became close. Gowda allegedly told the woman that he wanted to marry her. She refused since she was already married, but the two slipped into an intimate relationship. The woman claims Gowda secretly filmed their intimate moments. Meanwhile, the woman’s husband began to grow suspicious and at around this time she asked Gowda to marry her. He refused saying she was already married and that she belonged to a ST community.
 
 “He used the videos as a weapon to silence her. He showed her them and threatened that he would upload it on the internet if she kept asking him to marry her,” police said.
 
 Besides rape and cheating, Gowda was booked under provisions the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
 Techie still in jail in similar case
 
 Arindam Nath, who was arrested in a similar case in September 2017, was recently denied bail and remains in jail. Viveknagar police had filed a chargesheet against Nath, 28, a software engineer, and the trial will begin once a court frames charges against him.
 
 Nath was arrested on charges of raping a colleague, filming the act, and circulating the video on pornography websites. According to the woman, Nath invited her to his flat in 2016 and raped her, recording the act on his cellphone. He later blackmailed her, demanding that she visit his flat when he called her. The woman claimed she was raped several times. 
 
 
