GUWAHATI: The Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 began its hearing in New Delhi on Tuesday, leading to strong protests across the state. Tribal, youth and student organizations took to the streets, demanding unconditional withdrawal of the bill, that seeks to grant citizenship to refugees belonging to religious minorities from  , Pakistan and Afghanistan. 

 "On valid grounds, we have argued that if people from the minority communities in Bangladesh get citizenship in India, the entire demography of Assam will change," All Assam Tribal Sangha (AATS) general secretary Aditya Khakhlari told TOI. AATS has been camping in Delhi and attended the hearing on Tuesday, in the presence of JPC chairman Rajendra Agarwal. The tribal body said the bill would be "suicidal" for indigenous tribes and communities in the state.
 
 "Moreover, the amendment bill threatens the secular character of the Indian Constitution and the Assam Accord, which is in place for detection and deportation of all illegal migrants who entered Assam after March 25, 1971," Khakhlari added.
 
 Student bodies like the All Bodo Students' Union, the All Adivasi Students' Association of Assam and more than a dozen organizations representing various indigenous tribes and communities echoed the sentiment.
 
 Aasaa general secretary Joseph Minz said, "Most of the organizations have agreed to the 1971 deadline and no question of extending it beyond arises for the interest of any special communities."
 
 "Assam has borne the burden of migrants for a long time. The Constitution must safeguard the communities that are facing a threat in the wake of illegal influx, at a crucial time when the   is being updated in Assam to detect illegal migrants," Absu president Pramod Boro said.
 
 The state's leading minority organization, the All Assam Minorities Students' Union, boycotted the hearing since it had earlier demanded that the hearing be held in Guwahati. "Aamsu clearly said it won't take part in any hearing if the JPC doesn't come to Assam," Aamsu adviser   said.
 
 In Guwahati and Morigaon, several activists of the   and its frontal wings were detained after they scuffled with police during state-wide protests on Tuesday. KMSS observed the day as Black Day, opposing the hearing outside Assam and alleged that several leading organizations of the state have been left out of hearing.
 
 
