PATNA: Airports Authority of India (AAI) has initiated bidding process to rope in a firm for construction of new   at   airstrip. Regional flights are proposed to be launched from Darbhanga to places like Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru under Udan (Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik) scheme of Union civil aviation ministry.

 AAI officials said the proposed terminal building would be a temporary and mostly pre-fabricated structure. “It will be an interim terminal building comprising porta cabin arrival and departure areas, security hold area, VIP lounges with the provision of toilet blocks in each lounge and allied facilities. The terminal building would be fitted with LED Ligthts, airconditioners and fire alarm system among other utilities,” Patna airport director Rajender Singh Lahauria said.
 
 The terminal building would be made ready in six months utilizing funds to the tune of Rs9.67crore, he added.
 
 Earlier, low cost airlines   was awarded a letter to operate flights from Darbhanga to Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai in January under Udan scheme under which fares are capped at Rs2,500 for one-hour flights. The scheme is to connect unserved and underserved airports in the country.
 
 Minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha had said on February 12 in Patna that flights would start operating from Darbhanga airbase within the next six months. The Darbhanga airstrip is owned by Indian Air Force (IAF) and a civil enclave or terminal building along with ATC (air traffic control) tower, parking apron and cargo among other facilities are required to be provided for commencement of commercial flight operations.
 
 Sources said the runway at Darbhanga is at least 8,000 feet long in which aircraft like A-320, extensively used by domestic carriers, can easily operate. “We had demanded 50 acre land from state government to develop a permanent terminal building. But only 5-6 acre land is being provided as of now. Accordingly, interim terminal building is being developed for the time being,” Lahauria said.
 
 Incidentally, the state government is keen to commence commercial flight operations from Darbhanga as well as Purnia airstrips, both controlled by IAF. Sources said the state government is already acquiring 50 acre land at Purnia for civil enclave and other facilities with funds to the tune of Rs 21crore.
 
 There are 21 airfields in   out of Bihta, Purnia and Darbhanga are controlled by the IAF. Nine others are in the category of ‘kachha and abandoned’ airfields, including at Jehanabad and Ara. The remaining are under the category of metalled runways having airstrips made of reinforced cement concrete (RCC).
 
 Officials in civil aviation directorate said airstrips at Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Birpur, Valmiki Nagar, Rajgir and Gopalganj are also proposed to be developed under Udan scheme.
 
 
