By Abhijeet Kalra

 CHANDIGARH: More than four public parks of Sector 8 need urgent cleanliness. Residents accuse the civic authorities of ignoring the maintenance of these green spaces so much that children have stopped going there to play.
 
 Most of these parks have piles of garbage dumped around, and the odour makes it difficult to walk or even sit inside. “The local children have stopped playing in the parks,” resident Suchet Singh said. “We have taken our complaints to the authorities concerned many times but the problems never get resolved. The maintenance of the parks is a jurisdiction of the municipal corporation that hasn’t cared for these even a bit.”
 
 The locals claimed that the even the smaller parks next to the houses have trash piled up at every entrance. The people who live near these parks claim the foul odour to be a big nuisance. One of the parks created recently doesn’t have benches, playing area, and other amenities.  , a resident, said: “If a park is made for residents, it should have at least basic seating space and play area for children. Instead, our park has garbage piles, while the residents and children stay away.”
 
 Stray   and drug addicts have made these public parks their home, so the nearby house owners avoid goingthere after dark. Sumit Pahwa, a nearly resident, said: “The trimmed grass is not picked up for days. The blades flow into the drain and choke it. The visitors have to sit on the park floor, amid stench.” Heaps of dry leaves and trimmed grass are a common sight at these parks.
 
 The residents demanded urgent maintenance of the parks, besides a partnership with the civic authorities in maintaining these. A newly washroom in the public park along the Sector-8 market remains closed, and people wonder what’s the point of building it if they not able to use it. Kavita, who works at a boutique nearby, said: “Both men’s and women’s toilets are locked. There’s no other public convenience nearby. Opening these washrooms will be a great relief.”
 
 Ranjana, a nearby resident: “The garbage is not collected for days. Stray dogs who feed on this waste in the park terrorise visitors. They have even injured people. The MC should ensure timely lifting of garbage.”
 
 
