MUMBAI: Sheer apathy and bureaucratic red tapism have put the career of over 100 Urdu medium students of diploma in education (D Ed) in the city at stake. The BMC-run Rahmatullah Currimbhoy (R C) D Ed Colleges at Mahim and   at Dongri face serious teaching and non-teaching staff crunch.

 The Mahim college has no principal for the last three months and a teacher has been the acting in-charge principal for the last four years at the Imamwada College. Interestingly,   also has the dubious distinction of being run with just two qualified teachers, including the in-charge principal, for 87 students, all of them girls.
 
 The BMC’s apathy to recruit teachers for the teachers’ training colleges forced some politicians to initiate steps.   Amin Patel whose office is in the Imamwada College’s vicinity recently held meetings with senior municipal officials, including deputy municipal commissioner (Education) Milind Sawant and education officer Mahesh Palkar.
 
 “The career of many girl students is at stake since there are no trained teachers to guide them. When I was told that only two trained teachers and three teachers from secondary level who are not even qualified to teach D Ed students run the college, I met the officials who have promised to recruit adequate number of teachers soon,” said Patel. “We have sent the proposal of recruitment of teachers to the general administration ( ) department,” Palkar told TOI.
 
 Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh who too has fought on behalf of these colleges said, “The recruitment of teachers is in the pipeline and will happen soon.”
 
 While Imamwada College’s principal refused to comment,   who retired as Mahim College’s principal in August this year regretted the delay in appointment of the staff. “The staff salaries come from the state while the BMC’s job is only to run it. And yet it has ignored our genuine grievances,” said Khan.
 
 Activist Mudassar Patel who has petitioned the authorities many times also complained about the delay. “It is shocking that, despite a senior BMC official’s instructions, the appointment of teacher is being delayed.”
 
