Trichy: Over 8500 students across various schools took part in the fifth edition of state level spell bee competition - an innovative quiz programme which provides a platform for school students to test their linguistic skills.

 While the numbers of participants have been increasing every year, organisers say that many of the schools have made it mandatory for their schools students to attend the competition considering its significance.
 
 For S Naveen, a nine-year-old who has been attending the competition for the past 4 years, it is more just a competition. While his performance has been improving every year for which he credits his grandmother for his inspiration, Naveen stood first in the competition by scoring 84 out of 100 in oral and 41 out of 50 in a written test.
 
 The aspiring archaeologist says that his curiosity for new words has been helping him to learn more complex and interesting words which help him improve his vocabulary.
 
 The second place was secured by Roshan Ram by scoring 24 out of 100 in oral and 46 out of 50 in writing. He was followed by M Alisha scoring 26 out of 100 and 41 out of 50 in writing. The winning students were awarded cash prizes for their exceptional command over spelling and pronunciation of English words.
 
 Many participants found the contest pretty tough for being unable to crack some complex spelling errors. However, they have resolved to fight it back the next year.
 
 Coordinator of the Trichy edition of Wiz spell bee, Yasmin Nazeer said that the number of participants have been increasing over the past five years.
 
 “This competition helps children know where they stand in terms of knowing right spellings of English words and pronunciation. Thus schools have also been instructed to send their children to the competition.”
 
 Most of the parents who accompanied their children said that their children are unable to pronounce words in the correct manner and blamed the schools for its shift in focus towards completing school curriculum off late. These competitions help them learn better, they say.
 
 While students from a total 44 schools in Trichy took part in the event, Yasmin said that selected students from the competition will take part in the national level event in the upcoming months. 
 
 
