AHMEDABAD: The recently organized   Global Business Summit 2018 saw a number of NRGs from various countries, committing investments worth crores in the state or even for the community. One of them was a motel owner based in Atlanta, Chandresh Patel, who is thinking of a handsome investment of Rs 200 crore in the state.

  Sharing more details, Patel said, “I am looking to establish a waste-to-energy plant. The initiative will be a joint one with a Dutch firm which will also be investing in the project. The project has a major scope not just in   but in India as it helps the burning issue of solid waste disposal.” Patel said that the Dutch firm will be primarily investing in the machinery as they’re the ones bringing in the technology. “At present, we are in the process of identifying the land and we expect some cooperation from the government as well. We are looking for a piece of land somewhere around Ahmedabad itself,” added Patel, who hails from Nardipur village in Kalol taluka of   district. Patel, who had come to attend the Patidar   Summit 2018, is also the trustee of the Kadwa Patidar Samaj in Atlanta, USA – a firm which undertakes philanthropic work for the community members. 
 
  Patidar doctors who live abroad do their bit for community
 
 Dr  , neurologist, Pennsylvania, was one of the guests of honour at GPBS 2018. At an individual level, he has been sponsoring the education of underprivileged children. “Every year, we sponsor at least 50 children’s education who are brilliant in studies but do not hail from economically sound backgrounds. I am here because my objectives align with those of the members here,” he said.
 
 Dr Chitranjan Patel, consultant physician, Chicago, has been working towards the issue of supporting education of students and creating healthcare and lodging and boarding facilties for senior citizens. “We have various initiatives going on in these areas. My only wish is that these initiatives by the community members go beyond the Patel community and also benefit others in the society,” he said.
 
 
