AMRITSAR:   (CKD) has become the battleground for the Congress and SAD leadership trying to wrest control of the 115-year-old Sikh body after disgraceful exit of its president Charanjit Singh Chadha.

 What’s more, the race for the coveted post of the Sikh body is not just between these political parties but also between urban and rural Sikhs representing both Congress and SAD.
 
 Ahead of CKD’s executive body meet scheduled for February 5, groups of its executive members aligned with both parties are busy holding marathon meetings and trying to garner maximum support in their favour for next president’s election.
 
 Sources said the race was primarily between officiating president of CKD Dhanraj Singh, relative of Congress-backed   (Delhi) president  , and SAD’s former   member Rajmohinder Singh Majithia. Chadha had recommended making Dhanraj as the officiating president of CKD.
 
 “Traditionally, urban Sikhs have been dominating the managements of CKD and Khalsa College Governing Council. This time also there is probability of repeating the past tradition but Rajmohinder not only has the backing of SAD but also of Akal Takht,” sources in the know claimed. They said Akalis could gain the dominance in CKD if   showed ‘keen interest’ as it has already indicated.
 
 Sources said that the agenda for the February 5, executive body meeting of CKD was to accept the resignation of Chadha, his suspension from primary membership and announcement for the election of new president of the Sikh body.
 
 On January 23, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh had directed CKD secretary N S Khurana to accept Chadha’s resignation and suspend him from the primary membership and inform about the same to the Akal Takht secretariat.
 
 Former secretary of CKD Bhagh Singh Ankhi said the executive committee, in its meeting, would announce date for next elections. “In my view there should be election of the new executive body since the old body was nominated by Chadha,” he said.
 
 A controversy had erupted after a video allegedly showing Chadha with a woman principal of a school run by the CKD had gone viral on December 26, 2017. Following that one of CKD member had lodged a complaint with Akal Takht to summon Chadha and take action against him.
 
 On December 28, 2017, Akal Takht had summoned Chadha to appear before the Sikh clergy. Following the incident, Charanjit’s son Indepreet Singh Chadha shot himself to death on January 3. During its meeting held on January 23, Akal Takht had told Chadha that it would keep an eye on his character for next two years. In addition, the Sikh clerics had also banned Chadha from addressing any religious, social, political or academic functions.
 
