NOIDA: The   has filed an FIR against its former managing trustee   for embezzlement of Rs 4 crore, and also accused him of illegally transporting blood from Noida for commercially use in Kanpur and Gorakhpur. Singhal has denied the allegations and termed the move as vendetta.

 Sudhir Walia, the trust’s president, and Sudhir  , a managing trustee, filed the complaint against Singhal on April 5 in Sector 20 police station. Police launched a primary investigation and registered a case against Singhal on May 3, under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust).
 
  of Noida had created the trust on April 16, 2007, for setting up a blood bank, as well as its management. Singhal, a resident of ATS Hamlet, Sector 104, was appointed as the president. He later rose to become its managing trustee, and continued till October 22, 2017.
 
 As per the complaint, the trust’s steering committee held its first meeting on October 14, 2017, and elected Walia as its president. In its very second meeting, on October 17, the committee noticed ‘malpractices’, including illegal transfer of blood and manipulation of the trust’s bank accounts.
 
 Walia said when the facts emerged, Singhal submitted his resignation on October 20, 2017. Sudhir Minda was elected as managing trustee on October 22. The 10-page FIR states Singhal took a Rs 24 lakh loan against the trust’s fixed deposits, by ‘forging’ signatures of six other trustees in 2013. “When informed, the six other trustees denied the signatures which were used for obtaining loans by Singhal were theirs,” it said.
 
 The complainants also said during internal examination, they found Singhal had opened another blood bank in the name of Mayanajali Charitable Blood Bank in Kanpur, and transferred about 7,000 units of blood collected by Rotary Noida Blood Bank, for which there is no record of payment, etc. “The value of 7,000 units of blood would be Rs 1.19 crore,” the FIR said. The complainant further said 1,087 units of blood, worth Rs 18 lakh, was also transported to Sree Lakhan Sewa Kalashi Charitable Blood Bank in Gorakhpur. Singhal is also accused of misappropriation of cash purchases in machine and laboratory equipment.
 
 Singhal said the allegations levelled against him are baseless. “I’m the founding member of the  . I worked tirelessly to realise this dream for people’s welfare. A group of people have now ganged up and conspired to remove me from the board. I’ve just been informed that they have filed a complaint against me. This is vendetta,” he said.
 
 Singhal admitted he took the Rs 24 lakh loan, but said it was for the development of the blood bank. “The principal amount of the loan has been paid back. I’ll talk to police and put my point across,” he said. 
 
 Rotary International has removed Singhal from the post of district governor.
 
 
