HYDERABAD: "If I cannot defend the honour of my mother, I better die," actor   tweeted early on Friday morning. That set the tone for his activities for the day as he went unannounced to the office of the Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce at Film Nagar to vent his ire against some   for allegedly demeaning not just his mother but the entire Telugu film industry. Later, he called for a boycott of three channels, who he said were 'making business out of nudity and profanity'. 

 Even as Pawan put out a series of tweets and spent several hours at the film chamber, his supporters damaged the OB van of a Telugu TV channel and two more vehicles at Filmnagar. Police tightened security at the office of a TV channel even as Pawan urged his fans to refrain from violence.
 
 Pawan's move came in the backdrop of actress   using a vulgar word about his mother and some TV channels telecasting it repeatedly. Though Sri Reddy subsequently apologised, Pawan went to Film Nagar to question why the film industry is not able to unite to stop such shows.
 
 In tweets since morning, Pawan also called it a deliberate attempt by the managements of these channels to target him and alleged at a political conspiracy involving AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu and his son IT minister Lokesh.
 
 "Would you dare to think of doing the same abuse to Naidu and Lokesh. Will you even think of telecasting abusive rants on opposition leaders? Will you ever attempt on  ? But only Pawan Kalyan and his ageing and frail mother deserve such abusive rants and repeated telecasts, analysis and debates. Why this special exclusive treatment for me and my old mother?" he asked. 
 
 Interestingly, Pawan put out photographs of the owners of TV channels he was miffed with. He also shared a photo of a major shareholder of a popular Telugu channel against which he held a grudge. "This is his new look," Pawan tweeted.
 
 Producer Allu Aravind, actors Ram Charan Tej, Hema and Nagendra Babu, Movie Artistes Association president   and a few directors and producers also visited the film chamber separately on Friday.
 
 Later, following an appeal by Pawan, the Telugu film industry has decided to meet on Saturday to protect the film industry against being demeaned. This was informed by Jana Sena party in a note. Pawan also said he is ready for legal battles against the TV channel owners.
 
 
