He understands one language — of rhythm — and he has mastered it. And every moment of his life is pure abhinay (expression). At 80,   gracefully wears ghunghroos around his ankles and enthralls the audience with the sheer magic of his tapping feet. Apart from performances, Maharajji (as he’s fondly called) tirelessly travels across the country to hold workshops for students of Kathak. Recently, he was in Mumbai for the biggest   event of the year, wherein the Pt Birju Maharaj Crown was presented by the maestro himself to the winner of the Kalashram Kathak Contest (Kalashram is his dance school, which is dedicated to teaching and popularising the dance form across the world). 

 
 ‘For me, rhythm is life’
 He excitedly says, “Right now, we have about 700 students, who are keenly pursuing dance. Shauk se bahut log seekhte hain, but eventually, I know that there will probably be only three-four students who will want to dedicate their life to it. I learnt under the tutelage of my father (Acchan Maharaj), Lachhu Maharaj and Shambhu Maharaj, toh teeno ka ansh mere nritya mein dikhayi deta hai. Any good art form leaves an impression, and I know that many artistes have been influenced by my dance. Even after all these years, I am still exploring my art. I believe that dance should look beautiful and graceful. It is not just about following rhythm or impressing by dancing in speed. A dance performance needs ang, roop and expressions. For me, rhythm is life, and abhinay is a part of us. From the time a child is born, he does abhinay. He cries, laughs, throws tantrums, too, and this is all a part of abhinay and no one has taught him to do that.”
 
 The legend, who boasts of a legacy of seven generations of Kathak dancers, says, “For years, I have been holding workshops across the country. Traditionally, guru ke paas shishya jaate hain, ab guru khud hi shishya ke paas jaate hain. I understand that most of the students are working and studying; at the same time, giving them taaleem is important. So, it’s convenient if I hold workshops for them in their cities. I want more students to pursue this art form.” 
 
 Talk to the Padma Vibhushan awardee about how today’s generation is allured by various other forms of dance, which are often passed off as fusion, and he interjects, “I believe that those who think that they are lacking in something, resort to fusion. Within our classical forms, there is tremendous potential to reinvent and create something new. It is limitless. We can tell innumerable stories through our dance, if we really want to. Today, dancers are also aided with ample technology, and performances are mounted on lavish sets with props, and enhanced with special effects. 
 
 While the visual impact is stunning, we ask the veteran if all this really enhances the art form. He says, “During my chachaji’s time, the trend of coloured lights had newly been introduced for performances. Someone asked him, ‘Maharajji, kaunsa rang doon aapko?’ He turned around and told him, ‘I don’t need any light, jo rang meri aankh, meri bhaav paida karegi, wahi rang dikhayi dega’. If your art is pure and strong, you don’t need other frills. Of course, to perform on stage you need to enhance your eyes and lips with colour so that your expressions are visible from a distance. Earlier, the audience would sit closer, so every nuance and movement was visible. Nowadays, you can see such close-ups only when you are watching a performance on television.”
 
 
 ‘Satyajit Ray understood my art’
 Birju Maharaj has had a long association with movies. He has choreographed outstanding pieces of dance for the silver screen — Satyajit Ray’s ‘Shatranj Ke Khilari’ (1977), Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Devdas’ (2002) and ‘Bajirao Mastani’ (2015), and Abhishek Chaubey’s ‘Dedh Ishqiya’ (2014), to name a few. 
 
 Talking about Madhuri Dixit-Nene’s stellar performance in ‘Kaahe Chhed Mohe’ (‘Devdas’), he says, “I think that once a dancer has a deep understanding of rhythm and movement, he or she can understand any dance form. Madhuri has that understanding of dance; hence, she picks the dance movements fluently. I love working with her as she understands every expression that I show her. She would tell me, ‘Mujhe aap ki tarah nahin aata hai’, but would keep fine-tuning her movements. I started choreographing for movies with Satyajit Ray, he understood my art”. He laughs and adds, “Aaj-kal movies ke gaane mein actors ko itna uchalna aur bhaagna padta hai. Sometimes, half the song is shot on a helicopter in mid-air, and the other half is shot on a ship. It’s too much!”
 
 Interestingly, the maestro is not such an avid fan of Bollywood movies. He confesses, “I watch very few Hindi films. In fact, I like watching action movies at night. I like films that have a lot of action, fights and horses. Main likhta kavita hoon, dekhta hoon action movies”.
 
 Recently, he was seen on Remo D’Souza’s reality show (‘Dance Plus 3’), on which some of the participants paid a tribute to the legend. They performed to Mohe Rang Do Laal, the song picturised on   in Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Bajirao Mastani’, and choreographed by Maharajji.
 
 When asked about the trend of reality shows and the kind of talent that we see on the silver screen, he said, “It was a good experience being on Remo’s show and when he asked me what I thought about the performance, which they presented for me, I told him that woh dancer body ke har hisse ka istamaal bahut accha kar raha hai, par mere mooh se yeh nahin nikla ki woh dance kar raha hai. Usme bahut fark hai,” he smiles and explains.
 
 While we are in conversation at NCPA (National Centre for Performing Arts), in front of us, dance rehearsals are on in full swing on stage. The dancers are adding the final touches to their piece, perfecting every move, step and sway. We ask Maharajji about what more he would want to achieve in his 80th year. His face lights up as he tells us about how he wants to continue teaching and dancing as that’s all he has ever wanted to do. He pauses, strikes a beautiful pose while giving instructions to the dancers, then he quickly turns around, smiles and says, “Yehi zindagi hai meri!” For a legend like Maharajji who views his entire life through nritya, we aren’t surprised. Dance is movement, and there is nothing stopping Birju Maharaj. Rhythm and grace in perfect unison, he moves on and on…
 
 
 
