GAYA: Whereas there is huge rush for the post of VCs of several universities of the state including Patliputra University, Patna,  , Munger and  , Purnea, there are few takers for the same post in the 25-year-old Veer Kunwar Singh University ( ), Ara.

 The number of aspirants for the post of VC of Patliputra University, as per information available on the Raj Bhawan official website is 161. It is 153 for Purnea University and 146 for Munger University. 
 
 Only 23 applicants are there for VKSU, Ara. More importantly, senior academics have greater charm for the post of pro-VC of the Ara-based university in comparison to the top post. As against only 23 aspirants for the VC’s post in Ara, the number of pro-VC post aspirants in the same university is 57.
 
 With 28 applicants for the post of VC, even the somewhat less important   and Persian University, Patna, figures high as compared to VKSU. The VKSU VC post is regarded as hot potato as a couple of months back, VC Prof Syed Mumtazuddin tendered his resignation within a few months of joining on account of unrest in the university.
 
 The VKSU and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University stand on the same pedestal in respect of women aspirant for the top job. 
 
 The lone brave woman ready to accept the challenging job in VKSU as well as Arabic and Persian University is Dharmshila Prasad. For the post of VKSU pro-VC, five women including   and Bina Thakur have thrown their hats in the ring.
 
 Like VKSU, in Nalanda Open University (NOU) too, the post of pro-VC is more sought after than the post of VC. 
 
 Though, eligibility criteria for both the post of VC and pro-VC is the same with 10 years teaching experience as professor being the entry level requirement for both the post, as against 62 aspirants for the post of pro-VC, there are only 15 applicants for the post of VC in Patna-based Nalanda Open University.
 
 Senior academics have greater charm for the post of pro-VC of the Ara-based university in comparison to the top post. As against only 23 aspirants for the VC’s post in Ara, the number of pro-VC post aspirants in the same university is 57
 
 
