KOLKATA: There may not be any comparison between the Mumbai and Kolkata suburban services but at least the local trains are starting to look similar. On Sunday, the first ever 3-phase alternating current EMU rake under Eastern Railway (ER) was flagged-off from Howrah station by Mrinal Kanti Mondal, the senior-most employee of ER’s electrical department in the presence of  , divisional railway manager, Howrah and other senior officials.

 
  
 
 Such rakes are already operational in Mumbai’s suburban network and some have just started arriving for Kolkata. A few days ago, a similar rake was flagged-off by   (SER) and some are already operating between Howrah and Midnapore/Kharagpur.
 
 “This is a very advanced rake with 3-phase propulsion system and regenerative braking. These rakes can run at a top speed of 100 km/hr. The interiors are also much more comfortable for passengers. The body is made of stainless steel for better maintenance. There are more fans and lights and the seats are more comfortable. The ventilation system is also better than normal rakes. The passenger information system in the coaches are GPS based and gives talk time information on the location of the train,” a senior official said.
 
 According to Goel, the women’s coaches have been specially designed with   cameras inside. “This is for increased security. The CCTV cameras have recording facilities and will also telecast footage to the motormen’s cabins. In case of an emergency, when an alarm chain is pulled in a women’s compartment, a flasher on the roof will glow and a hooter will sound for quicker identification of its location,” the   said.
 
 Another unique system in these rakes is their propulsion system. Unlike normal rakes, these draw alternating current from the overhead equipment and are more efficient.The first rake will run between Howrah and Bandel. Goel said that more such rakes will arrive shortly and would be introduced in other sections.
 
 “We want more such rakes. Why didn’t it arrive earlier when the Mumbai suburban service had them?” Aasked  , a schoolteacher who commutes daily.
 
 
