NEW DELHI: The one-hour rule that saw President   limit his presence at the national film awards is intended to ensure that his public outings focus on, to the maximum extent possible, engagements in states and areas close like education and health.

 Kovind wants to take the presidentship to the heartland outside Delhi and in 10 months of his term, he has already visited 23 states, with plans the visit   later this month, said an official. He has visited some states more than once. On May 10, the President will visit   for a day, only the second president to do so after Dr A P J Abdul Kalam.
 
 “It’s a punishing schedule, which is what is expected of a modern President. The President wants to utilise the time on actually bringing about change, and not just let it be a ceremonial post,” said the source.
 
 The view that the President’s duties are not demanding and he could have spared more time for the national film awards where 55 winners did not show up in protest against Kovind handing out only 11 awards is incorrect, said sources.
 
 “The only occasions where the rule is not enforced is for Padma awards or Republic Day function. Even there, the Padma awards are conducted in two phases where they are less than an hour,” said the official.
 
 In the past few months, Kovind has asked IITs,   and other institutions to confine events to an hour, while keeping even the Teacher’s Day awards — close to the President’s interests — in the one-hour mark.
 
 The President has been keen on education. “He has been working quietly on bringing the central universities and HRD ministry together to smooth out stumbling blocks on infrastructure, financial and other fronts,” the official said.
 
 Adding to Kovind’s schedule are his international trips. Till date, Kovind has visited 11 countries. In contrast, former president   visited 21 countries in five years. “All the international visits are planned by the government,” said an official. The reason, he said, was India’s increasing international engagements. 
 
