PUNE: Love is in the air and what better way to ramp up romance than to splurge on roses, chocolates, heart-shaped cushions, teddies, candlelight dinners, and more.

 Cashing on the sentiment are roadside vendors, gift shop owners, florists and restaurateurs. Even lemonade sellers are going all out to make the most of the romantic day of the year. 
 
 For the past two days, Lakshman  , who sells lemonade on F C Road, has filled his handcart with roses wrapped in plastic with messages like ‘I love you’ and ‘Be my valentine’.
 
 “I started selling roses since last year when a friend mentioned about Valentine’s Day. My customers are mostly college students,” he said.
 
 Roses, which are a classic way of expressing love, are on high demand across the city. Florists in the city too are busy catering to orders for the V-Day. “Prices of most flowers have increased by at least Rs 10. Prices of roses have almost doubled. A red rose, which is usually available for Rs 10, is being sold at Rs 30,” said  , a florist on F C Road.
 
 Ranmale has also stocked up on teddy keychains, handmade chocolates and heart-shaped boxes. Archies, the gift shop, has also geared up to help the cupid struck to profess their love in the form of gifts and greetings.
 
 A six-page greeting card, which plays three songs from love saga   and priced at Rs 2000, is the most expensive card in its collection.
 
 “We sell the highest number of greeting cards during the Valentine’s week. People are extremely enthusiastic about Valentine’s Day. The footfall we have in February is equal to the footfall for the rest of the year,” said Vikas Kale, marketing manager of Archies at Deccan.
 
 According to him, teddies, greetings, photo frames, cushions, jewellery and bottle pre-written messages are most in-demand.
 
 Restaurants across the city too have drawn up plans for lovebirds. From poolside candlelight dinners to parties where couples can narrate their love story, there are plenty in store for the cupid struck. “I have been to several trips where people share anecdotes from their travel diaries. So I thought why not adopt it to Valentine’s Day, love stories are worth listening to,” said  , owner of an event management company.
 
 For those not basking in the warmth of love are finding solace in memes. Several events like #PyarEkDhokaHai by   and #happilysingle have been trending on social media. “I will be celebrating Valentine’s Day with my friends. Who says you need a soulmate to celebrate love when you have friends?” asked  , 22-year-old medical student.
 
 
