NEW DELHI: The Centre on Wednesday informed the   that cleaner Euro-VI petrol and   would be dispensed at all retail outlets in the national capital from  . On February 5, SC had asked the secretary of the petroleum ministry to file an affidavit clarifying whether Euro-VI or BS-VI standard motor fuel would be available at all retail outlets of oil marketing companies in Delhi, or only at select petrol pumps.

 In an affidavit filed through advocate  , the petroleum secretary said, “All OMCs having retail outlets in NCT of Delhi — Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum, Reliance Industries and   — have confirmed that BS-VI auto fuels will be supplied in their retail outlets in NCT Delhi with effect from April 1.”
 
 The number of registered vehicles in the national capital crossed the 1-crore mark in May last year, further raising concerns over rising pollution levels and poor traffic conditions in the city. Data put out by Delhi government’s transport department put the number of registered vehicles in the city at 1,05,67,712 till May 25, 2017, including 31,72,842 cars. The biggest chunk of registered vehicles in the city (66,48,730) is motorcycles and scooters, which are known as major polluters due to poor emission standards.
 
 According to a Centre for Science and Environment analysis, in case of cars, “the particulate matter norm will reduce by 82% and nitrogen oxide (NOx) by 68%; PM and NOx emissions from two-wheelers will reduce by 89% and 76%, respectively; and PM and NOx emissions from trucks and buses will drop by 50% and 89%, respectively”, when BS-VI emission standards are implemented for all vehicle categories.
 
 CSE researchers also said that BS-VI fuel would bring down sulphur content by five times from the current BS-IV levels — an 80% reduction. They said that the moment fuel quality was improved, the emission control systems in the existing fleet would perform better, wear and tear would be less and PM emissions would be lower. But the maximum benefit will be felt when the automobile technology is advanced to support BS-VI fuel.
 
 
