TRICHY: After making a mark in  ,   is now gearing up for star rating of garbage-free cities. With the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) launching the new system,   (ULB) will be rated as 1,2,3,4,5, and 7 star civic bodies based on their performance in implementing solid waste management rules, 2016. The higher the rating, better is the cleanliness index of the city. 
 
  has been in the process of assessing itself as sought by the union ministry to apply for the rating framework. While Swachh Survekshan being conducted for the past three years identifies the existing cleanliness in cities and ranks them accordingly across the country, the proposed star rating of garbage free cities is intended to enhance their waste processing capabilities. 
 
 Through the star rating framework, civic bodies would be certified based on self-assessment and self-verification, after which the self-declaration would be verified by an independent third party agency appointed by MoHUA. As many as 11 key parameters have been mentioned in the star rating framework including enforcement of ban on plastic and cleaning of storm water drains. As in the case of Open Defecation Free (ODF) status, if a civic body satisfies all the 11 key parameters, the city would earn a 7-star rating besides being conferred garbage-free city tag. “For each rating, several conditions have been listed by the Union government which have to be achieved before self-declaration,” Corporation Commissioner   told TOI.
 
 Unlike Swachh Survekshan, which focused heavily on solid waste management, star rating framework also sheds light on the existing condition of storm water drains and water bodies which will be the most challenging task for Trichy Corporation as storm water drains have been in neglect. The visible beautification of the city achieved with the help of citizen groups is to be taken into account as part of the star rating system. “Union ministry has asked us to provide information such as self-assessment and self-verification. As in Swachh Survekshan, we are confident of fetching an admirable position for Trichy in the rating system,” the commissioner added. 
 
 Civic body sources said that Trichy might either self-declare for 5 or 7-star rating as the infrastructure here was robust and satisfied the parameters of the rating framework. The rating provided after the independent verification will remain valid for a year after which reassessment and re-certification will be done every 12 months. 
 
 Sources said that the star rating process would commence soon after the results of Swachh Survekshan 2018 were released after May.
 
 
