MARGAO: While cries of ‘ossai ossai’ and ‘ghumche katar ghum’ rent the air as Curchorem celebrated the government-sponsored Shigmo on Thursday, the spirit of the celebrations, however, were visibly dampened with a sense of anxiety and desperation over the prospects of mining shutdown from Friday casting its dark shadow.

 A day ahead of D-Day, the mining belt bore a peculiar atmosphere, like that of an army retreating from the frontiers. Mining machinery and earthmoving equipments were moved out of mining leases and trucks were shifted to safer places. Though Thursday was the last day for mining excavation and transportation, contrary to expectations, most trucks stayed off the roads, probably owing to the hectic mine closure activities underway inside the leasehold areas.
 
 “Transportation from only one mine is happening today. The work of dismantling the plants and disposing off the materials is going on at a hectic pace inside all mining leases,” a source associated with the mining industry told TOI. Most of the mines had begun shifting their machinery, material and mineral ore from inside the mining leases to their plots, yards and jetties, days ahead of the March 15 deadline. 
 
 With uncertainty looming large over the resumption of mining operations, it’s the question of livelihood that has come to haunt the minds of the thousands whose lives are largely centered around the mining activities.
 
 There’s a whole ecology that is built around the mining industry – the truck owners and drivers, the machine operators, truck mechanics, tyre retreaders and truck spare part dealers, restaurants, traders of consumer durables – it’s a symbiotic economy that thrives solely on mining in the mining belt. Mining shutdown will have a cascading effect on all types of trading activities in this area. If truck owners are worried over how to repay their bank installments, families of mining dependent people are alarmed over the prospects of long time closure of mines.
 
 “It’s going to be pretty bad situation – even worse than the 2012 mining ban,” says Sanjay Naik, a member of   panchayat. “Back then, people had made enough money that saw them through the bad times. This time, mining was just beginning to pick up when another ban has come about. People had invested all their savings and secured loans to make their rusting trucks road-worthy and businesses ready for the mining season. Their livelihoods are now at stake.” 
 
 Pent-up feelings of anger and frustration also find an expression during conversation with local village leaders.
 
 “These political leaders have let us down,” fumes Vinayak Gauns,   deputy sarpanch, and president of Dharbandora truck owners association. “They were talking of recovery of thousands of crores of rupees. The looters have gone scot free, it’s the common man like a truck owner who is made to bear the brunt of the mining loot.” Gauns disclosed plans of organizing a morcha in   of mining dependents to protest the ban within the next few days.
 
 Meanwhile, at the Curchorem vegetable market, a tribal lady vendor selling breadfruits calls out to her prospective customer, “Yo re bab, nirponnos vhor re....sovai dita. Falea mining bond jatorir konn kai vhorpana.” (Come, buy some breadfruits, I will offer you a good price. When mining closes tomorrow, there won’t be any takers). The tenderness of her voice clearly reflected the pathos of the impending situation. 
 
 
