Gurgaon: The 10  , busted in the city two days ago, offered various technical and financial solutions, ranging from software updates and anti-virus programs to cheap loans, and cheated hundreds of foreign ‘clients’ over the past eight months, said police on Wednesday.

 Though the exact number of people duped and the sum of money extracted were not known till now, police said around 500 employees, working at these call centres, used to contact 4,000-5,000 ‘customers’ — mostly based in America, Australia and the UK — daily.
 
 While police have already arrested 33 “team leaders” or “managers” and are in touch with most of other employees, they are still clueless about the mastermind of this well-organised racket.
 
 The 33 arrested men were produced in a city court on Wednesday and taken on three-day police remand. Sources said at least five teams from Sohna, Palam Vihar, Farrukhnagar, Sector 17 and Sector 18 police stations were questioning the accused to extract more details.
 
 “They posed as bank executives and enquired about customers’ loan requirements. If anyone showed interest, he would be asked to submit various documents for eligibility assessment. It was just a trick to win his confidence. The caller would contact the customer again and tell him that his loan had been approved, and ask him to deposit anything between 50 and 100 dollars as processing fee,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon.
 
 Sometimes, they would pose as officials from multi-national companies and call people, informing them about huge sums that they had won in a lucky draw. “They would ask the ‘winner’ to deposit a ‘processing fee’ online, promising to credit the prize money to their bank accounts within 48 hours,” Kuhar added.
 
 Similarly, some callers used to contact people, offering software updates or anti-virus for their laptops, desktops and Smartphones for a ‘nominal charge’.
 
 Investigations so far revealed that most of 500-odd employees were from Delhi-NCR and used to get between Rs 20,000 and Rs 25,000 as salary. Some of them were from other countries but lived in Delhi and Gurgaon.
 
 “The employees used to get customers’ details from their respective team leads and make calls at night. As of now, it seems they used to target customers only from the three countries,” said another senior cop.
 
 “We have identified a couple of men, who apparently owned the centres and provided customers’ data. But, it is still not clear how and from where, they sourced the data. We are trying to first nab the masterminds, who can throw light on all these aspects,” Kuhar said. 
 
 
