AURANGABAD: There seems to be no quick solution in sight for shortage of ward boys at the   ( ). 

 The issue came to fore when the visuals of a nine-year-old girl holding saline bottle for her father, who had just undergone an operation, went viral on social media. The GMCH administration had then gone on the defensive saying that it was not more than two minutes before the stand was made available.
 
 However, this defence of the administration fell apart after Tatyarao Lahane, deputy director, directorate of medical education and research (DMER) visited the hospital. The senior officer of DMER had lambasted the staff and told the media that nurses and ward boys are responsible for arranging IV stand and action would be taken against the guilty. 
 
 However, when Lahane was asked the reason behind the absence of staff to receive and escort accident victims and serious patients at the casualty ward, he said the GMCH is running short of ward boys. 
 
 “There are only six ward boys for a ward with 120 patients. So, it is difficult for them to be available to receive the patients at the entrance. But the state government will not be hiring more ward boys. It will fill the required posts with contractual workers,” he said. 
 
 However, DMER deputy director did not tell when the government will undertake the process of filling the posts and how many ward boys will be hired.
 
 Incidentally, the state-run hospital which caters to 2,500 patients daily has 700 posts approved for ward boys. At the moment, the hospital has 490 ward boys working for it. “The hospital is short of more than 200 ward boys,” GMCH medical superintendent   said. 
 
 Patients’ kin told TOI that due to this shortage, those who are rushed to GMCH and require urgent attention have to wait for a long time for the formalities to be completed before they are seen by a doctor. The kin of the patients have to run around for stretchers to take the patients inside the wards. 
 
 Lahane said the hospital’s need for more ward boys will be met through contractual hiring but did not spell out details of how and when it would be done.
 
 
