AMRITSAR: Sikh advertisement campaign ‘We are Sikhs’, launched by   (NSC) in US, has won ‘Best of the Cause’ category PRWeek US Award 2018. The campaign was launched last year on Baisakhi. 

 NSC co-founder Dr Rajwant Singh told TOI on Friday that they had engaged FP1 Strategies, former US president George W Bush’s marketing team, to market the national effort by the Sikhs to inform Americans about Sikhism and the Sikh identity. The award is considered as the Oscars for the PR industry in the US. The winner was announced at the PRWeek Awards ceremony in New York 
 
 “The Sikh advertisement was made by AKPD, former US president Barack Obama’s media team, under a strategy developed by the Hart Research Associates, whose clients included  , the   and Bill and Malinda Gates Foundation” said Rajwant, adding that NSC had raised over $1.3 million from various Sikh communities across America to fund this effort national effort.
 
 Stating that winning the award was a great victory for the Sikh community across the US, he said, “Countless Sikhs have had to face bullying, discrimination, and hate crimes due to the lack of understanding of our faith and our values. Our community decided that we needed to communicate effectively with our fellow Americans. Thousands of Sikhs across the country volunteered and donated to make this campaign a reality with the ultimate intention of creating a better future for their children and loved ones.”
 
 The campaign had started as a small team working in coffee shops and college libraries in Washington DC and within a few short years, the campaign grew into a nationwide movement said  , Executive Director of NSC.
 
 NSC communications director Shawn Singh Ghuman said the award didn’t belong to NSC “but to the entire Sikh community.”
 
 About FP1 Strategies, Rajwant informed that the firm was Washington DC based public affairs firm which had led the execution of the “We Are Sikhs” campaign nationally as well as locally in markets such as Fresno, California. It highlighted the contributions of the Sikhs to the American society leading to significant increases in the broader public’s knowledge and understanding of Sikhism
 
 
