Thiruvananthapuram: Breaking the barriers of superstition, three more children from Anakal, a remote tribal hamlet in   here, are set to join school. 

 In a major attempt to bring in more children from 27 tribal settlements to schools this new academic year, district child protection unit (DCPU) is organizing awareness camps and study tours for children from these hamlets. 
 
 In Podiyam the camp is being organised from May 2 while at Kottur it will begin from May 16.
 
 “After last year’s awareness camp, six children from Anakal hamlet, inhibited by the members of the Kani tribal community, joined the school. Yet, when a child fell ill, the community members considered that it was the wrath of the vedic sage, Agasthya, since they opted for education and development instead of leading a traditional life. Other reasons for the tribesmen's resistance include lack of proper roads that forces children to walk long distances of 13 to 14 km through the remote forest path. During the rains, the trek becomes more difficult,” said an official from the social justice department.
 
 “Three children from Anakal, aged 9, 11 and 13, are yet to join school. In addition, the effort is to ensure that there are no dropouts by creating awareness among the children and youth in these hamlets through camps and community meetings,” said district child protection officer (DCPO) K K Subair.
 
 “There are about 222 children, all aged below 15, from 13 tribal hamlets of Kuttichal. Our effort is to ensure that all of them are in school. Last year, there were 32 dropouts. This year three dropouts were reported from tribal hamlets. There should be no dropouts in the next year and all children should be in school,” Subair said.
 
 Yet, as many as 108 children from the tribal hamlets of Kuttichal have no birth certificate and 65 other kids don’t have aadhaar. SJD officials are trying hard to complete procedures and get them these documents.
 
 While, residents in other tribal hamlets in Kuttichal do not oppose education, their prime concern is the safety of their children who will have to walk many kilometres to reach a school at Kottur. 
 
 From Podiyam tribal hamlet, the children will have to walk 17km through the forest to reach the school at Kottur. 
 
 At Kottur, there is a lower primary school and an upper primary school. 
 
 While from Anakal to Kottur, it is a 24km walk and there is no proper road, the official said.
 
 
