GHAZIABAD: An   was shot at by a   during a   near   on Saturday night. The gangster, Sonu alias Sunder, was wanted in several cases of loot, murder and attempt to murder cases. Sonu had stabbed to death a data entry operator, Pravesh Sharma (30), in Vijay Nagar, Ghaziabad, on February 8.

 According to police, the shootout took place as Sonu tried to evade a check-post and opened fire on a police team that cornered him at around 8pm near the highway. The SHO of Vijay Nagar police station, Naresh Singh, sustained a bullet wound on the left midriff. Singh has been admitted to the ICU of Flores Hospital in Pratap Vihar.
 
 “Sonu was on a splendor motorcycle when he was stopped by sub-inspector Shahnawaz at a check-post near a traffic intersection in Vijay Nagar. However, he evaded police and sped in the direction of NH-24. Another team led by SHO, Vijay Nagar, Naresh Singh, cornered him as he was trying to access NH-24. He opened fire on the police van and the cops in which the SHO was injured. Sonu sustained a gunshot wound on his left leg in the retaliatory fire and has been hospitalised. A total of seven to eight rounds were exchanged during the gunfight. The condition of Singh is stated to be stable at the ICU,” SP (city) Akash Tomar told TOI.
 
 A .315 bore country-made revolver with four cartridges has been recovered from Sonu. According to police, he was jailed in the past for cases of loot and attempt to murder and under the Gangsters Act. Sonu, who is in his mid-30s, belongs to Hapur district. He was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 for his arrest.
 
 “The modus operandi of Sonu was to stab people before robbing them. We are examining his criminal history. There are at least six to seven cases in which he had stabbed and robbed people. The SHO had a narrow escape in the gunfight,” SSP Vaibhav Krishna told TOI. On February 8, Sonu had stabbed and robbed a data entry operator, Pravesh Sharma, in Vijay Nagar. Sharma, who worked in a multi-national company in Greater Noida, was walking home around 1am after being dropped by a cab near his home when Sonu attacked him. After stabbing him, Sonu had fled with Sharma’s mobile phone and wallet. Bleeding profusely, Sharma had managed to reach his home, a rented accommodation in Vijay Nagar. He was taken to a private hospital by his family members but was declared dead on arrival. He is survived by a one-month-old daughter.
 
 A case of robbery and attempt to murder is registered against Sonu in Pilakhuwa police station too of neighbouring Hapur district.
 
 Incidentally, the district police has launched an operation to nab wanted criminals and those having non-bailable warrants against them on Saturday. The mission, code-named Operation Dastak, is being led by SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 
