TIRUPUR: The city corporation has declined to provide answers to an applicant under the Right to Information ( ) Act, claiming that “the applicant has sought information on different subjects in one application.”

 The   said such applications may force the state government to bring a rule that an applicant could seek only limited answers on one subject in one application. The rule may affect other applicants.
 
 S   of Nalaiya Tirupur Makkal Amaippu, a people’s forum, filed two applications with the corporation under the   seeking answers for 31 questions. He received replies from two executive engineers -S Thirumurugan (south) and MVD Tamilselvan (north).
 
 Following are some of the questions raised by Sundarapandian in his RTI applications: “Give details on total funds allocated to   under the Amrut scheme and Swacch Bharat Mission. What are the projects undertaken under Amrut scheme ward-wise? Between 2012 and 2017, how many budgets were presented in the civic body, give a booklet on it? How many new roads/streets were laid in all 60 wards?”
 
 Both the EEs have sent Sundarapandian the same reply: “In one application, the applicant has sought more details on different subjects. Respective officers need to give answers for each subject. Seeking so many answers in one application was like wasting precious time and work of a responsible official.”
 
 “The public information officer might have to spend several hours to prepare answers for all the questions raised in one application. Further, it would fetch only a meagre amount as application fee for the government,” they said.
 
 “It seems the application’s aim was to disturb the PIO than obtaining information. The country should not witness a scene where government officials spend 75% of their work time in collecting information to provide answers to RTI applicants. There should not be a situation wherein government officials prepare answers to RTI applications, affecting their regular duties. There should not be fear psychosis among government officials on being punished for not answering the RTI applications.”
 
 “If the present applicant wants to appeal against the decision, he can appeal with the corporation city engineer,” they replied.
 
 Commenting on it, Sundarapandian told TOI: “I have sought the information to know what were the works undertaken by the corporation in public interest. But the authorities have replied to me saying that I have vested interest to disturb them rather than obtaining information. I will not leave them until they provide me the answers.”
 
