KARNAL (HARYANA): "Poo to Power" may sound awkward and impractical, but Aditya Aggarwal and his brother Amit have done it in Karnal, Haryana. Two industries, one producing wire nails and another tinner rivets, owned by the family run on 100% electricity produced from cattle dung they get from nearby 'gaushalas' or cow sheds. The cattle dung-based power plant started in 2014 and that too without government support. The bio-gas plant generates close to two megawatts of power daily.

 Sukhbir Singh of Silani village in Jhajjar stumbled on the idea to produce electricity from chicken faeces at his poultry farm to escape the clutches of corrupt electricity department officials in 2010. Singh, his father Subedar (retired) Ram Mehar and brother Ranbir had several cases against the local electricity department. Today, their bio-gas plants generate enough power to meet most of the electricity needs of four poultry farms.
 
 Such real life change-makers and several others like them in Punjab, Uttarakhand and Tamil Nadu have come in handy for the Modi government to make its "Gobar-Dhan" scheme distinct from other government schemes by encouraging entrepreneurs to convert cow dung and other bio-mass available in rural areas to generate electricity, gas and fertiliser and make it a part of their business model. Their case studies have helped the government to avoid reinventing the wheel and make the initiative financially sustainable.
 
 According to government estimates, India has about 30 crore cattle population and about 30 lakh tonnes of cattle dung is produced daily. This can be a major source for bio-gas and manure. The government plans to roll out the scheme across 350 districts in the first phase and cover the rest during the second phase. In 2018-19, it targets to set up about 700 bio-gas plants across the country by providing performance-based incentives to gram panchayats, self help groups (SGHs) and bulk generators like gaushalas. Officials say government will provide 25% advance amount as incentive for panchayats and SGHs.
 
 The scheme was launched by drinking water and sanitation minister Uma Bharti on Monday.
 
 Aditya said they initially set up a fertiliser plant close to their industrial units to manage the huge quantities of cattle dung from local 'gaushalas'. His father was in the managing committee of these cow sheds. "We used to spend Rs 5 lakh annually to manage the cattle waste. When we started our focus was to make fertiliser, but later we realised we can tap the gas to generate electricity for our own consumption. We use 20,000-30,000 kg of cow dung daily. For us, cow dung is 'green gold' like people consider milk as 'white gold'," said the computer science graduate.
 
 Sukhbir (58), who was into TV repairing before he joined his brother and father in the poultry business, said the idea to use chicken faeces to generate electricity came because of their dire need. "We had many issues with the electricity department; officials would ask for bribe. But my father being a retired Army man would refuse to pay them. When we realised that the chicken faeces that we dump in the open can generate huge gas and that can be tapped to produce power, we set up our plant. It's working well without any government help," he said.
 
