GREATER NOIDA: PriceWaterhouseCoopers ( ), the agency preparing the techno-economic feasibility report (TEFR) for the sanctioned international airport at Jewar, has projected that the airports in Delhi and   will cater to over 300 million passengers annually by 2050.

 The agency has also projected that the   ( ) will become saturated with a 100-million passenger count by 2024-25, which will give rise to the need for a second airport in NCR. The airport at Jewar would fulfil the need, PWC said.
 
 According to the TEFR, the current   at the IGI airport in Delhi is 60 million, which is likely to get saturated in the next seven years. The report says NCR will feel the need for another airport once the passenger count in Delhi crosses the 100-million mark.
 
 In the first phase, the Jewar airport will have two runways and will cater to a passenger count of 80 million when it is likely to get operational by 2022-23, two years before the IGIA reaches its threshold traffic handling capacity, PWC says. Hence, all passenger traffic from IGIA will be diverted to the airport at Jewar.
 
 According to the TEFR, Jewar will have two additional runways in the second phase, which will further increase its traffic-handling capacity.
 
 Spread over 5,000 hectares and with four runways, the sanctioned international airport at Jewar is being billed as “India’s biggest”. Officials said the authority had enough land along the   and the airport could be expanded if needed.
 
 Together, the two airports in Delhi and Jewar will be able to cater to over 300 million passengers, according to the report. To make the plan a success, the revenue generation model could include providing parking facilities for aircraft besides implementing a Maintenance, Repair, & Operation (MRO) system, YEIDA officials said.
 
 The officials further said Prabhat Kumar, the YEIDA chairman who also holds post of the divisional commissioner of Meerut, had reviewed the progress of the preparation of the TEFR on Tuesday. The final TEFR is expected to be completed by March 15, along with the proposed project’s environment and social impact assessment. The bidding process for the proposed airport is likely to commence by June-July. If all goes according to the plan, the foundation of the project is likely to be laid in 2018, the officials said.
 
 
