ARA: In its attempt to make Ara a clean and green city, the Ara Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided to adopt the latest solid waste management technologies and make   out of wet waste, such as fruit and vegetable peels and leftover cooked food.

 The AMC has also proposed to recycle inorganic waste, such as plastic, metal or paper and earn handsome profit in the process. AMC officials said Ara would be the second town in Bihar after Muzaffarpur to generate compost from wet waste. 
 
 AMC has entered into an agreement with a solid waste management company – Harit Recyclers’ Association – for the purpose of making compost out of wet waste and recycling inorganic waste. The firm will provide its technical support for the project besides doing monitoring, supporting and designing work.
 
 AMC city manager Shekhar Kumar Prasad said more than six municipal wards have been selected in the first phase, where wet waste will be used to generate compost, which will be rich in plant nutrients and help the farmers in getting the top soil of the plant healthy.
 
 “The detailed project report (DPR) has been prepared and the work will begin from second week of March. The space for making compost pits is being identified in different wards,” Shekhar said, adding residents in the municipal area will also be made aware about segregation of dry and wet waste in their home, before handing it over to the garbage collectors.
 
 Shekhar said 120 tonnes of waste is generated daily in AMC area, out of which 60 tonnes are wet waste, which will be used for generating compost.
 
 Calling trash “black gold”, Harit Recyclers’ Association secretary Shashi Bhushan Pandit said, “When properly segregated, trash can fetch handsome profit for municipal corporation. The municipal corporation can in fact earn Rs7.5 per kg by selling manure made from the wet waste. As far as inorganic or dry waste is concerned, sky is the limit if properly recycled or segregated at the source. For instance, human hair is sold at Rs 3,000 per kg and animal bones at Rs 50 per kg.” 
 
 
