BHOPAL: Vidhan Sabha Speaker Sitasaran Sharma said he did not expect the   members would create an uproar during inaugural sitting of Budget session. The Speaker called an all-party meeting in the evening seeking cooperation from legislators even as   leaders took on   members for their gross disorderly conduct in the House.

 “We had a meeting before the session, but I did not expect Opposition members creating disturbance during Governor’s speech in the House. It came as a shock to me. I urged them to maintain calm and cooperate during the House proceedings. I expect cooperation from both main parties to actively put forward public issues during session without creating any disturbance,” said Sharma after the House adjourned for the day on Monday.
 
 The Speaker said members from all political parties have so far submitted more than 5,500 queries, over 100 call attention motion, some adjournments and information during ‘zero hour’. Most of members have taken up issues related to farmers and poor, which is a good sign. We hope the session would be fruitful and effective, he said.
 
 As Congress members continued to raise demand on farm loan waiver and withdraw high VAT on petrol even after the House was adjourned, BJP leaders attacked them alleging misconduct by the Opposition benches during the Governor’s address.
 
 “Congress members never raised justified demands. They were always busy with drama. They should focus on productive issues rather than playing games. Sometimes, they protest with stoups (kamandal), sometimes without clothes, sometimes protest with apron and sometimes on bicycles. There is no need to flex muscles in the House. We need to talk and discuss, which require intelligence,” reacted government spokesperson and public relations minister Narottam Mishra.
 
 Revenue minister Umashankar Gupta said Congress members have no issues to discuss in the House. “They concoct stories and resort to blame game instead of engaging themselve in positive discussions. Their behaviour in the House is not justified,” he said.
 
 State home minister Bhupendra Singh and health minister Rustam Singh attacked Congress members for creating the uproar. Speaker Sharma said the House would continue till March 28 and would complete its business. 
 
 The budget session comes two days after the keenly-contested bypolls in Mungaoli and Kolaras assembly constituencies on February 24.
 
 
