NEW DELHI: Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s much awaited visit to India will take place from February 17 to 23, the government announced on Monday. Apart from New Delhi, Trudeau will be travelling to Agra, Amritsar, Ahmedabad and Mumbai, making it one of the longest-ever state visits to India in recent times by a head of government.

 “The visit is aimed at further strengthening bilateral relations between the two countries in key areas of mutual interest including trade and investment, energy, science and innovation, higher education, infrastructure development, skill development and space,” said the government in a statement.
 
 Cooperation in security and counter-terrorism as well as exchange of views on global and regional issues of mutual interest, it added, will also form important components of the visit.
 
 According to the Canadian government, Trudeau will also speak to students, and visit several landmarks, including Taj Mahal, the Golden Temple and the Swaminarayan Akshardham temple in  .
 
 “Canada and India share a special bond, and are linked by tremendous people-topeople connections. The more than one million Canadians of Indian origin make the relationship between our two countries a truly special one. I look forward to meeting with Prime Minister Modi, and further strengthening the   friendship,” said Trudeau.
 
 Job creation is likely to be a focus area for the two leaders with the Canadian government saying that they will discuss ways to create “good middle class jobs” for Canadians and Indians alike.
 
 “Prime Minister Trudeau will also participate in several business roundtables to promote further trade and investment between Canada and India. The Canadian delegation will also work closely with Indian leaders to advance mutual growth and prosperity,” it said.
 
 This will be the fourth meeting between Trudeau and Modi. The two leaders met previously in November 2017 during the East Asia Summit in Manila, Philippines; in July 2017 during the G20 in Hamburg, Germany; and in April 2016 during the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington, DC. Trudeau also met Modi in his capacity as Leader of the   in Toronto in April 2015 during Modi’s official visit to Canada.
 
 
