MUMBAI: Bowing to pressure from parents,   in Dadar has decided to allow   students to continue in the SSC board this year. The school, however, will continue with its plan to migrate to ICSE section for classes I to IV. The school started SSC admissions for class V on Monday.

 The school, now known as the  , had faced protests from parents’ groups for its decision to migrate from the state board to ICSE for classes I to V. The parents had also raised concerns about the procedure the school had followed for name change and other permissions to start the ICSE section.
 
 Over the last week, several parents met with authorities demanding that the school doesn’t move to the ICSE board. Following the talks, authorities on Monday restarted admissions for the SSC section, but only for class V. “We have been in constant touch with the parents over the past two years, but since they had apprehensions, we decided to allow class V students to continue with SSC. However, we will migrate to the   for classes I to IV,” said Akaram Patil, the school’s trustee.
 
 In a related development, the BMC education department has asked the school authorities to apply afresh for starting an ICSE section and not shut down the SSC section. “The school acquired a no-objection certificate from the state education department to start an ICSE section and change the name to SVM International School. The school cannot migrate from SSC and to ICSE section; a fresh application for the same must be made,” said Mahesh Palkar, BMC education officer, in the order. 
 
 The Shiv Sena, along with a group of parents, plans to continue the protest for the school to continue SSC section for the lower classes too. “Even students from class I to III do not want to move to the ICSE section, but the school has made a consideration only for class IV. We will write more letters to the state and civic education departments and take up the cause of the parents,” said Sainath Durge, a Sena member of the BMC education committee.
 
 
