NEW DELHI: How does   change our brain, behaviour or personality?

 A group of scientists from AIIMS, JNU and Max Planck Institute of Psycholinguistics, Netherlands are mapping this by conducting the   on 100  . The two-year project started in 2016, and sources say it is near completion. Data is being collected to assess the changes. 
 
 Professor Vaishna Narang, ex-dean linguistics, JNU, said not only did they observe major changes in the brain structure and function of women who were taught basic Hindi and mathematics; there was also a significant change in their personality. “It was quantified through scores on structured behavioural tests,” he said.
 
 MRI analysis was also done to read structural and functional changes in the brain. Dr Vidur Mahajan, head of research and development at Mahajan Imaging, which was part of the project, said, we are in the process of analysing close to 25 million images of these subjects. “Preliminary analysis reveals major changes in the part of the brain that associates with word formation as well as the pre-frontal cortex that controls complex behaviour, including personality development,” he said.
 
 The doctors said 25% of the population in the country is illiterate and the study revealed that even short-term education could help improve quality of life.
 
 In this ongoing study, the researchers said,   illiterate women between 20 and 59 years were recruited and tested on different behavioural parameters. 
 
 They were divided into three groups where one group was made to read basic Hindi while fundamental mathematical operations were taught to the other group. The third group comprised women who had basic exposure to formal education. “Initially, the women were hesitant to come to class. But as they noticed changes in themselves, their enthusiasm improved and so did their participation,” Dr Mahajan said.
 
 Preliminary analysis revealed that there were major personality changes in those who were learning well. “There is a significant change in their general learning abilities, aptitude and motivation to participate in similar activities and events among those being taught,” Dr Mahajan, who is also one of the researchers, said. 
 
 Other researchers involved in the study ‘The impact of literacy and numeracy acquisition in cognitive functioning in illiterate adults: A longitudinal study’ sponsored by Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Netherlands include professor Vaishna Narang and Sushil Jha from JNU, Falk Huettig from Max Planck, R K Mishra from University of Hyderabad, Senthil Kumaran from AIIMS and Harsh Mahajan from Mahajan Imaging. 
 
 
