NAGPUR: Against the backdrop of state-wide farmers’ protest in the state, the state government on Saturday decided to amend eligibility criteria for the compensation for crop loss. The decision makes over 50%  , who were hit the most due to pink bollworm attack, eligible for the relief.

 The compensation amount will now be decided as per the survey jointly conducted by the revenue and agriculture departments in December 2017. Earlier, the revenue and forest departments, through a notification dated February 23, had announced compensation as per the survey conducted under Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme. TOI was the first to report about the notification on February 25, highlighting that many farmers would be left out of the benefit.
 
  
 The amendment has raised number of beneficiaries from less than 10% to over 50% in the state but the relief amount has not been increased.
 
 In the notifications issued on Saturday and on February 23, only one eligibility criterion for compensation — of 33% or more   — is the same.
 
 According to data of the district, there is a huge difference between survey of the revenue and the agriculture departments, and that of the  .
 
 As per PM Crop Insurance Scheme, 13,954 of total 2,11,000 cotton growers from the district were eligible for the compensation totalling 6.61% beneficiaries. As against the cultivation of 2,39,135 hectare, survey reported damage to 14,853 hectare (6.21%), making a total compensation amount at Rs13.25 crore. Some parts of 14 tehsils were shown as affected.
 
 As per the joint survey of the revenue and agriculture departments, the compensation amounts to be Rs68.57 crore, taking an increase of Rs55.32 crore, after almost 52% (1,10,000) increase in the number of beneficiaries on 69,193 hectares of cultivated land post amendment.
 
 State agriculture minister Pandurang   had announced the damage to over 50% cotton crop from total cultivation of 41 lakh hectares in the state during winter session of the legislature held in Nagpur in December last year.
 
 The same amendment will be applicable for the damage to paddy crop which was hit due to pest attack. However, the damage to paddy crop is less as compared to cotton. Compensation amount will be Rs1.67 crore as per survey conducted by the revenue and the agriculture departments.
 
 The survey under PM Crop Insurance Scheme, however, reported zero loss to the paddy in the district.
 
 Phundkar said the government has been trying to increase the compensation amount by recovering money from seed companies as per provisions in The Maharashtra Cotton Seeds Act, 2009. “We held a series of meetings with the companies and notices will be served soon. We requested Rs2,500 crore aid from the Centre under National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF). But we decided not to wait and give compensation from the state’s funds to the farmers,” he said.
 
 
