GAYA: Absolute lack of winter rain does not augur well for the   as, on account of ever dipping   table, recharge avenues get lost. As per statistics available on average rainfall in the district month wise,   used to have 20.3 mm rainfall in the month of January. Till date not a single droplet has fallen and as per medium term meteorological forecasts, there is little possibility of rainfall this January.

 Not only January, November and December too remained more or less dry. Average rainfall for the month of November is 14 mm and 5 mm for the month of December. Gayaites now desperately look for February. 
 
 The average rainfall for the month of February, as per district's official profile is 25 mm. Though, for the last so many years, winter rain has been considerably less than long term average, things had not been so bad in the recent past, says activist Balram Sharma.
 
 Lack of winter rains adversely affect Rabi crop yield. But for Gayaites, more than Rabi crops, drinking water matters. 
 
 As nearly 60% of the 70,000 plus registered households under the   (GMC) do not have access to tap water, they solely depend on personalised mechanism like hand and submersible pumps. 
 
 As the water table dips, most of the hand pumps go redundant. In several areas even submersible machines fail. Even those receiving tap water with frequent disruptions caused by technical snags need winter rain to recharge the water table. Municipal pumps draw water from Falgu river bed. 
 
 Rain water is stored in the bowl like formation beneath the Falgu bed. More than Gaya, rain in neighbouring   facilitates water storage in Falgu sub-surface. There are no reports of winter rain in Chatra (Jharkhand) either to feed Falgu. During the last several years, the Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) heavy duty pumps have, on several occasions failed to draw water for tap supply. 
 
 As per existing arrangements, the machines can pump water only upto 40 feet down the bed. In case, water table in Falgu bed drops below 40 feet, pumps stop functioning. Former Gaya DM Sanjay Singh conceived a plan to draw water from other river beds like   and Morhar to supplement water supply in Gaya town. According to a former municipal councillor Lalji Prasad, nobody appears to be serious about solving the town's water scarcity. 
 
 Gaya town MLA-cum-minister   and MP Hari Manjhi, though belonging to the same party have been working in different directions. “Whereas   has been talking of linking Falgu with Ganga for about a decade now, a few months back, the MP came with the demand to link Falgu with Sone. We are neither here nor there,” said Prasad.
 
 Not only January, November and December too remained more or less dry. Average rainfall for November is 14mm and 5mm for December. Gayaites now desperately look for February with high hopes
 
 
