NEW DELHI: Outside the Dandi Park   complex at Yamuna Pushta, a man lies rolled up in blankets, his head balancing against the cold edges of a wooden cart and the seat of his cycle. He is not alone. It is well past 10pm and one finds a group of rickshaw pullers spreading their blankets on the footpath.

 They know the cold may kill them, but to survive another day, they need their carts and rickshaws. Hence, they hold on to their vehicles at night — even if that means putting their lives at risk.
 
 “What if our rickshaws are stolen?” a man snaps at you, when asked to go inside the complex. Another cites the fear of losing the measly Rs 200 he has earned during the day to pickpockets inside. Most of those who sleep inside the shelters are daily wagers, beggars, elderly and the disabled.
 
 Nine years ago, the city had 25-odd bare tents to accommodate the homeless; there are over 260 shelters — permanent and temporary — now. However, there are two sides to the story. On one side are those who have learnt, or are learning to, make peace with these shelters, as they use the space for rest and as a route to bond with the society again; on the other are people who continue to battle with the vagaries of nature in the open for a variety of reasons. 
 
 Some complain that their place of livelihood is far away (in most cases, public land is not available in proximity to   concentrations); others say that presence of drug addicts and beggars keeps them away. Still others cite dirty blankets — they are washed every 15 days — and lack of physical space. Many stay out to get first access to people who come there to donate food and blankets. 
 
 Three men sleeping on the footpath along the   wake up with a start when this correspondent urges them to go in. The reception is less than cordial; just then, a car stops a nd a woman hands out blankets to them. Inside the shelter, managed by voluntary organisation Prayas, the caretaker’s register shows that space is filling up fast. 
 
  
  
 Drive down towards Nigambodh Ghat, the scene is much the same. It is estimated that between   bypass to Geeta Ghat — a 3km stretch — nearly 3,000 men sleep in shelters. There are no women along the Pushta, reflecting the socio-economic dynamics that define the lives of poor migrant labourers who come from other states alone to make a living and end up homeless. The register at one of the shelters with a capacity of 225 shows occupancy of 235. Other shelters on the stretch have space. No one is being turned away, say caretakers.
 
 At most of these complexes, some movie or other is running on TV screens. At Pushta, there is a shelter reserved for the elderly.   (64) comes in after begging the entire day. He has Rs 150 in his pocket. Four elderly men play a game of ludo in a corner.
 
 Driving on, one finds 98 patients at the Geeta Ghat recovery shelter for homeless. At least 130 people are watching a film. The shelter has a movie club where the  , a voluntary organisation, holds sessions twice a week.
 
 On the footpath, a man lies under a blanket. A patrol van stops and a policeman asks him to go inside the complex. He refuses. The cop shrugs and leaves; the man goes back to his uneasy sleep. A DUSIB rescue team is alerted to rescue him. 
 
 
