JAIPUR: The state government is contemplating enhancing the compensation for   of the villages from the core and buffer area of tiger reserves in the state.

 A committee of officials comprising additional chief secretary ( ), principal sectaries of  ,   and additional chief principal conservator of forest has been constituted to decide on the compensation package to shift out the villages still stay put in the reserves.
 
 Sources said, the committee would meet on Monday to deliberate on the matter.
 
 The state government had revived the efforts to relocate the villages in the aftermath of Sariska tiger, ST-11, falling prey to poaching recently. Sources said the government considers relocation a priority issue now after a recent poaching incident in Sariska and the compensation would be made more attractive so that the wild life as well as the settlers benefit from it.
 
 “The package would be made more attractive so that the villagers still living in the reserves shift out voluntarily to avoid human animal conflict,” said an official privy to the development 
 
 More than 247 families continue to live inside the   (STR) as they are unwilling to leave forest alleging that the compensation package is inadequate. Many efforts were made in the past to rehabilitate these villagers but have not been successful.
 
 The Union government had announced a package of Rs 10 lakh for each adult member of a family or six bighas of agriculture land, a residential plot and Rs 2.5 lakh as compensation to the families to settle them outside the reserve. However, it has failed to attract these villagers
 
 “With each passing day and the increase in the population of the villagers settled inside the reserves, the relocation becomes more an onerous task,” confided an official. Besides with plan for more tigers relocation to Sariska and the likely increase in its population, it is likely to escalate the man –animal conflict in future giving urgency to the relocation to the villages.
 
 As per the records, currently there are 26 villages in critical tiger habitat (CTH) that need to be relocated and that are said to have violated the tiger habitat. Out of these, 10 villages are on 'priority 1' and the rest are on 'priority 2'. Till now, only three of the total 29 that come under the critical tiger habitat could be fully shifted.
 
