NEW DELHI: Prime Minister  's two-day meet with Chinese President   is widely being seen as a significant thaw as far as the relation between the two Asian powerhouses is concerned. The year 2017 was a typical specimen of the love-hate affair the nations have shared over the years. Indian and Chinese troops had been locked in a standoff for 73 days last year in the Doklam area near Sikkim before "disengaging" on August 28. However ironic it may seem, but in the just ended (2017-18) fiscal year, the volume of India-China bilateral trade reached an all-time high of $84.44 billion, witnessing a 18.63 per cent rise on a year-on-year basis. 

 
 Yet, as the two leaders meet, there will be bones of contention on the commerce front.
 
 Just days ahead of the Modi-Xi meet, India refused to express support for China’s ambitious One Belt-One Road (OBOR) initiative. In doing so, Sushma Swaraj became the only foreign minister at the meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) to not be party to a joint communique released at the end of the meet. Other SCO members, including Russia, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, “reaffirmed support” for OBOR.
 
 The Belt and Road is Chinese President Xi Jinping's landmark scheme to build infrastructure to connect China to the rest of Asia and beyond, a giant reworking of its old Silk Road.
 
 India has consistently opposed the initiative as parts of one key project, the $57 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), run through Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir.
 
 Another money matter which might feature in Modi-Xi's agenda is the 10 per cent tax on imports of key components for manufacturing smartphones, that the government had imposed earlier this month. This was despite the fact that late last month, China, Canada and the United States among others had raised concerns at the World Trade Organization (WTO) around India's imposition of duties on such devices. China, of all countries has reasons to worry because at $21.77 billion, the largest chunk (28.23 per cent) of China's exports to India, consists of electrical machinery and equipment.
 
 
 
 
 In early March, China’s parliament reversed a 35-year-old rule limiting the tenure of a president to two five-year terms and paved the way for Xi Jinping to continue in power indefinitely, putting the 64-year-old in the same league of Mao Zedong, founder of Communist China.
 
 Buoyed by the newfound status, at the close of China's annual parliament session in earlier this month, Xi promised to open the country’s economy further and lower import tariffs on few products like automobile. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang reiterated this view. China's bid to open trade came right in the middle of an unprecedented standoff with the US, which threatened to turn into a full-blown trade war. 
 
 As US and China wait to see who blinks first, it is imperative for the dragon country that it discovers new trade prospects to ward off the hostile winds of protectionism blowing from the west. The largest share of India's imports (about 17 per cent) comes from Chinese shores. On the other hand, India is China's seventh-largest export destination and a burgeoning market for its products. Thus, the two countries complement each other as far as the classic rule of demand and supply is concerned.
 
 The first steps towards sweetening this relationship has in fact been initiated. After a meeting with his Indian counterpart Suresh Prabhu, Chinese commerce minister Zhong Shan in an official statement, "welcomed Indian investment in China and promised to address the trade deficit between the two countries".
 
 
 
 
 If India swore by non-alignment during the Cold War days between the US and the erstwhile USSR, it is officially 'not taking sides' in the trade war between US and China either. "India suo motu has been the supporter of the rule-based multilateral trading order. In that sense, we don't have to take sides either one-way or the other," Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar had said on the sidelines of Strategic Economic Dialogue between India and China held in Beijing earlier this month.
 
 Besides looking to ramp up bilateral trade with China to $100 billion from the current $80 billion, India is seeking more oil, drones and aircraft from the US to help narrow its $28 billion trade surplus, news agency Bloomberg reported on Tuesday, quoting government officials. Along with South Korea, India was the only other country to cut its trade surplus with the US after Trump took charge. The surplus dropped to $28 billion in 2017 from the $30.8 billion in 2016, according to data from the Office of the US Trade Representative.
 
 
 
 
 In a rare gesture, Xi will not meet Modi in capital Beijing, but at Mao Zedong's private villa in the city of Wuhan. The capital of Hubei province, Wuhan boasts of the picturesque East Lake, where a Modi-Xi boat ride is on the cards -- a seeming sequel of Xi's 2016 visit to India, when the two leaders sat on a swing on the banks of Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad.
 
 Despite being termed as an 'informal' one, the meeting is widely dubbed as a crucial one, given the flux in geopolitical dynamics. Xi's elevation as the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao and the coming of age of the second largest economy, that he is talking about, leaves Modi with a lot of levers to pull. Modi himself, leading to an election year, will be looking to bolster the country's economy which only just seems to be recovering after the twin reform of demonetisation and GST.
 
 The two leaders might well act out a famous Chinese proverb, "The best time to plant a tree was twenty years ago. The second best time is now".
 
