BENGALURU: Although peaceful, Friday proved anxious for parents and school managements across the city. With uncertainty over which way the Supreme Court verdict on the   river dispute will go, and protests it could trigger, a few schools let their students go home earlier than usual, while others restricted the movement of their buses and asked parents to personally pick up their children from campus.

 However, officials in the department of public instruction said that no directive was given to schools to shut down. Parents of Mallya Aditi International School received a message, saying that the school would close at 11.30am. Buses from the school had left the campus by 11.40am, dropping students at all scheduled stops.
 
 
  Associated Managements of Private Unaided Schools (KAMS) issued a circular to its constituent schools to not allow children out of the school premises in case of any untoward incidents. Instead, they were instructed to ask parents to pick up their children.
 
 City calm, border areas wary
 
 Elaborate police bandobust was deployed across Bengaluru city on Friday, in view of the Cauvery verdict. Police personnel remained in front of Metro stations and bus stands, sensitive pockets of west and south Bengaluru through the day.
 
 However, Kamasamudram in   and   in Anekal, the two major border areas connecting Karnataka with Tamil Nadu, saw less   on Friday morning, police officers said. Lokesh Kumar, SP, Kolar Gold Fields, told TOI that their staff gave advisory tips to occupants of private vehicles crossing the border from Karnataka.
 
 “We had deployed armed police force at the borders since early morning. Though no signs of protest or agitations were seen after the judgment, we advised people crossing the border to drive carefully and avoid places where protests may happen later in the day,” he said.
 
 SK  , DySP, Bengaluru Rural, said, “Around 100 armed police personnel were deployed at the Attibele border since 6am. Vehicle population was less than normal. However, there were no untoward incidents,” he said.
 
