Hyderabad: In a major validation of the standing of the `City of Nizams’ as the crown jewel of the Indian retail market,   founder CEO Kishore Biyani on Wednesday said Hyderabad will be the highest grossing city for the group in 2018-19 with a turnover of Rs 4,000 crore, which is 10% of the group’s targeted revenues of Rs 40,000 crore. 

 In the current 2017-18 fiscal, the group hopes to mop up Rs 2,500 crore from the Hyderabad market of the total group revenues of Rs 30,000 crore.
 
 “Hyderabad is one of the most buzzing cities which we identified and we thought this is the first city we should launch all our new brand… look at launching new technologies and working on anything new that we are going to start,” Biyani said while unveiling the group’s new rice brand.
 
 Elaborating on the reasons for his exuberance over Hyderabad, Biyani termed it as the best consumption market. “We used to call it the Punjab of the south, especially in fashion and even in food…I think consumption (in Hyderabad) is much, much more than the rest of the country. I would say it compares to the north… the per capita consumption is far higher than any other state…we have always been very successful here…its an interesting consumer market,” he said.
 
 Hyderabad has always been an ideal testing ground for the group thanks to its been a market of firsts for the Future Group with most of its formats like Pantaloons, Big Bazaar and Central coming up first in the city, he said adding that was the primary reason they zeroed in on Hyderabad when they decided to embark on a journey to take up 10 cities to connect with and win the minds and hearts of consumers to build marketshare.
 
 Talking about the newly launched sona masoori rice offering, a variety that is primarily consumed in the south markets, he said the group wants to make sona masoori rice South India’s answer to Basmati rice that has been “glorified too much”. 
 
 He said apart from retailing sona masoori rice, for which the group has set up a dedicated processing mill in Karnataka, through the Golden Harvest brand, the group is also planning to launch it under the Shubhra brandname in the north markets. 
 
 He also said the group is looking at expanding its Heritage Fresh chain, which it acquired from Hyderabad-based Heritage group that is promoted by the kin of Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, from the 60-odd stores to about 150 by next year, primarily in Hyderabad and its outskirts.
 
 Biyani also announced that Future Group has roped in Rana Daggubati’s Suresh Productions for making television commercials and conducting events like food festivals and fashion shows as part of its high-decibel consumer engagement strategy.
 
 
