CHANDIGARH: Cycling through a busy street can be scary. But when it comes to Chandigarh, the city has separate lanes for cyclists. In fact, the city was planned to suit the needs of the cyclists. However, in reality, the situation is different. The residents are not really happy with the way these cycle tracks are being maintained by the   officials. According to the residents, the MC should take efforts to repair the tracks and then think of promoting cycling in the city.

 During a visit to various sectors including Sector 7, 18, 22, 23, 35 and 36, TOI found out that the tracks, which were constructed recently, lack basic facilities. Some sectors with cycle tracks have non-functional street lights and are riddled with potholes, thus adding to the woes of the riders. Take the example of sectors 22 and 23. Here, the street light poles were installed in the middle of the cycle track and the lights are non-functional.
 
 In sector 7 near the fuel station, the cycle track is ‘extremely narrow’. The residents complained that the cyclists hardly use the track. 
 
 In sectors 35 and 36, there is no street light on the cycle tracks due to which the cyclists avoid riding in the dark. The residents complained that a huge amount of money was spent for the construction of the cycle track, but MC hardly bothers to maintain it.
 
 Sunita Dhawan, area councillor of ward number 4, visited sectors 22, 23, 35 and 36 after the residents complained about the ‘poorly-maintained’ cycle tracks. She said she raised the issue with the authorities two months ago, but till date, nothing has been done. She said she will again take up the matter with the mayor as MC is encouraging residents to take up cycling on a large scale and they should provide the basic facilities also.
 
 Surinder Sharma, member of resident welfare association (RWA) of sector 15, said the residents are yet to realize the importance of the cycle tracks in the city. According to him, the authorities should take more efforts to promote cycling in the city. S L Luthra, senior vice president, RWA, Manimajra said he has taken up the issue a number of times with the authorities. He also said that the authorities should maintain the cycle tracks properly and then think of promoting cycling in the city.
 
 He also said that the rickshaw pullers should be motivated to use the cycle tracks, which will ease traffic flow on the main roads of the city.
 
 Ashok Kumar, president, RWA sector 7, said, “The authorities are not maintaining the existing cycle tracks properly. MC needs to take note of the issue so that the citizens can use these tracks regularly. It is not safe for the commuter to cycle on the existing tracks, which are uneven and lack the facilities of street lights.
 
 
