MADURAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam jointly inaugurated the famous   event at Alanganallur in   district on Tuesday morning. The Alanganallur jallikattu is a state government-sponsored bull-taming event.

 In his address, the chief minister said bulls were not harassed. “The owners raise the bulls like their own children. I can see how fervently the event is being celebrated by the people. I thank the organisers for the preparation which has been done in the best way that the whole world can watch it.”
 
 The chief minister read out an oath while others repeated it. Palaniswami also greeted the bull tamers. Around 1,150 bull tamers and 1,000 bulls from different parts of the state are participating in the event.
 
 Soon after the inauguration, the first bull was released amid applause and whistles from thousands of spectators. The spectators have come from different parts of the state, other states and even foreigner countries.
 
 Tamers were being allowed to enter the arena in batches of 100 at a time.
  
 Two cars and three two-wheelers were among the prizes to be distributed to the winning bull-tamers and the owners of the winning bulls. Gold coins, electronic items and cash were also part of the prizes. 
 
 The event was being held under the supervision of a jallikattu inspection committee led by Animal Welfare Board of India member S K Mittal. 
 
 Forest minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, revenue minister R B Udayakumar, cooperation minister Sellur K Raju, information minister Kadambur Raju, dairy minister Rajendra Balaji, adi dravida welfare minister Rajalakshmi, IT minister M Manikandan, Ramanathapuram MP Anwar Raja, Madurai South MLA Rajan Chellappa and a few other leaders were present when the event was inaugurated.
 
 The event will conclude around 4pm.
 
 It happens a day after a 19-year-old spectator was gored to death by a bull during a jallikattu event at nearby Palamedu. More than 25 people were injured in the   jallikattu. 
 
 
