KOLKATA: A 43-year-old woman leapt to her death from the 17th floor of her rented apartment in the   residential complex on Saturday afternoon. She was undergoing treatment for acute depression.

 Sonali Aikat’s death marks the ninth suicide at South City since 2012, with eight of the nine choosing to end their lives by jumping off. The most sensational of these tragedies was the triple suicide of 2012 in which an 83-year-old and her two daughters leapt to death from the terrace of a 35-floor tower. The complex has around 1,600 flats housed in four 35-storeyed towers and one 14-storeyed tower.
 
  
  lived in a   building and spent time occasionally in the rented apartment in South City. She came down to South City on Saturday morning and called the domestic help to pay the monthly salary; this help was the only person inside the flat when Aikat took the plunge.
 
 “Didi paid me immediately after I reached her flat around 12.10pm. She then sat down on the sofa and I went into the bedroom to sweep the floor. Five minutes later, when I returned to the drawing room, I saw her slippers neatly placed before the sofa. But she was nowhere to be seen,” the maid recounted. Aikat, cops said, jumped off the balcony in those five minutes.
 
 The immediate trigger was not clear but her parents, who stayed at the Ballygunge Park Road flat, told police that she had been suffering from dep-ression for over two years and used to consult a psychiatrist. Her last visit to the doctor was on February 26. The doctor’s prescription was found in the South City flat.
 
 Police also found several books and the victim’s writings that dealt with her thoughts on life and death. “It was apparent from her writings that she was suffering from some sort of depression and that it had increased in the past one year,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Acute depression could drive anybody to suicide, irrespective of financial condition and social standing, psychiatrist J Ram said. “Once depression strikes and turns acute, money or social standing cannot act as a barrier,” he said.
 
 In a Facebook post written exactly a year ago, Aikat had held forth on her views on mental illness. “Mental illness is not funny. It should be an obvious fact. But sadly it is not. I remember hearing of a colleague who suffered from mental illness. He tried to commit suicide in a fairly public place. The whole office got to know about the incident. And the reaction was laughter, bullying and harassment. I really do not understand people. What is it about suicide that is funny? How can so called normal people take so much pleasure in someone else’s pain? Again, someone I know suffers from kleptomania. Once more the reaction is laughter and gossip. Indian society does not comprehend mental illness. I wish we, as a society, change and learn to treat handicapped people, both physical and mental, with empathy,” she wrote.
 
 Her last post though was one expressing joy about her experience of teaching children at the Art of Living School. A fan of Bruce Springsteen and Phil Collins, Aikat was an admirer of movies by Ritwak Ghatak and Rituparno Ghosh.
 
 
