CHANDIGARH: It has been almost a year since the Maur Mandi car blast took place in Bathinda, snuffing out six lives and injuring 13 persons, but Punjab police are yet to crack the case. 

 Despite this, state DGP Suresh Arora claims the police are close to solving the mystery in this case. On the evening of January 31 last year, barely four days ahead of the assembly elections, an improvised explosive devise (IED) kept in a Maruti 800 car exploded after Congress candidate from Maur Harminder Singh Jassi’s rally came to an end. The blast took place around 8.30pm when Jassi’s convoy crossed the parked Maruti car.
 
  A shrapnel hit Jassi’s Fortuner but he escaped unhurt. His office manager   Palli lost his life. Jassi is a close relative of   head  , who was arrested on August 25 last year after being convicted in a rape case.
 
 The police had recovered a pressure cooker filled with ammonium nitrate, bolts and nuts from the blast site. Had the pressure cooker bomb exploded, it could have resulted in massive damage. On April 25 last year, the police had also released sketches of two suspects after taking eyewitness accounts, but none could be arrested till now. 
 
 However, buoyed by the success of cracking targeted killing cases of Hindu leaders and shooting down of dreaded gangsters   and Prema Lahoria in an encounter on January 26, the DGP says the police have made great progress in the case and are almost going to make a breakthrough. “There are operational issues. In such cases we refrain from sharing information with media,” reasons Arora.
 
 But the DGP made it clear that the Maur blast case had no connection with people involved in targeted killing cases in the last over a year across the state. Arora also ruled out the theory of any connection between the material used in the Maur blast and the chemical recovered from fire tenders in Panchkula during the operation when Dera Sacha Sauda head was arrested on August 25 last year. 
 
 The SP (detective),  , investigating Maur blast case, told TOI, “Our teams are actively working on all clues and inputs. We hope to crack the case very soon but cannot share sensitive information now.”
 
 
