Nagpur: Delhi chief minister and national convener of Aam Aadmi Party Arvind Kejriwal on Friday attacked the BJP-led government in Maharashtra and said a party that cannot run schools cannot be trusted to run a government.

 Referring to Devendra Fadnavis regime’s decision to wind up over a thousand state-run schools for want of pupils and funds, Kejriwal said people of Maharashtra would not forgive the government that has crushed the dreams of Chhatrapati Shivaji, Babasaheb Ambedkar, Jyotiba and Savitri Fule, who strived for spreading education and equality among people.
 
 Paying tributes to Shivaji’s mother Rajmata Jijau on her birth anniversary at her birthplace Sindkhed Raja in Buldhana district of Vidarbha, Kejriwal said he was implementing the ideals cherished by Jijau by which Shivaji established Swarajya.
 
 “It’s a shame for Maharashtra government if it cannot run schools and is in a hurry to close them down saying they have no money. “They have enough to swallow (corruption) but not for schools,” Kejriwal said and recounted how he has transformed government schools in Delhi within three years. “We have opened 300 new schools with swimming pools, gyms, lifts etc. And these schools have started showing better results than private ones,” said the Delhi CM.
 
 “Why are electricity rates highest in Maharashtra? In Delhi, I ordered audit of private power companies and forced them to cut rates. Today, Delhi has lowest power rates in the country,” said Kejriwal. “Here (in Maharashtra) the government is only worried about giving profits to power companies, not about people,” he said.
 
 On agriculture, Kejriwal said the BJP government was indifferent to farmers’ plight.
 
 “The government had promised to implement Swaminathan Commission recommendations on crop prices. But it looks like we have to organize a national agitation to force the government to fulfil that promise,” Kejriwal warned. He claimed within three months of coming to power in Delhi, he as CM provided relief of Rs 50,000 per hectare to farmers as compensation for crop loss because of heavy rains.
 
 “Like the British who ruled Indians by dividing them, BJP also believes in creating rift among the people and continue in power as communities fight each other. What Pakistan could not do in 70 years, the BJP has done in three years by destroying country’s social fabric and running riots on religion and caste lines.” the AAP leader alleged referring to Bhima-Koregaon violence. Several people, including Brig (retd) Sudhir Sawant, joined AAP at the well-attended rally.
 
 “This is not my personal battle, if you want to save the country, let’s fight together to throw the BJP and Congress out like we did in Delhi,” he added.
 
 
