BATHINDA: The Punjab director general of school education (DGSE) has announced to shut down the Adarsh school at Pathrala village in   from the forthcoming academic session, over the private partner not taking over the school. 

 This move has come at a time when 20 former teachers have accused the management of two Adarsh schools in Faridkot, at Pakka and   villages, of forcibly terminating their services even after court ordered a status quo on their jobs. DGSE-cum-Punjab education development board (PEDB) secretary   said the private partner had not taken charge of the school in Pathrala due to which the purpose of setting up the Adarsh school had been defeated. “On completion of the academic session, the board has decided to shift the students to adjoining government schools and close the Adarsh school. The file will be sent to the state government for approval,” he said.
 
 The retrenched women teachers of the schools at Pakka and Midduman, meanwhile, have decided to hold a protest against the management on International Women’s Day, Thursday. The Pathrala school has no building of its own and is run from the village dharmshalsa. Villagers want the building to be constructed, but authorities have expressed inability.
 
 The concept of Adarsh schools was conceived during the previous SAD-BJP government in 2011, through Punjab education development board (PEDB) to provide benefit of free education to poor rural students. The cost of the schools was to be shared in the ratio of 70:30 by the government and private parties, respectively. The state government provides nearly Rs 1,900 per student per month to the private players. The three schools have nearly 1,500 students. 
 
 In all, 26 Adarsh schools are being operated under PPP mode in Punjab. Apart from these, 11 schools are being run by the   and six under the   (RMSA) of the Union government. Pathrala resident   said, “It is unfortunate that instead of constructing the building, the authorities have decided to close down the school and shift students out. The state government has not made it clear where teachers will go.”
 
 Sarika Dhawan, former principal of Adarsh school at Midduman, said the management had been harassing the teachers. “Earlier, it was not paying salaries and then it retrenched teachers on flimsy grounds. We approached court, which ordered status quo on continuing our services but that order too has not been implemented. Now we have decided to hold a protest at Faridkot on Thursday,” she said.
 
 
