MUMBAI: Diversity may have traditionally given rise to a number of cuisines distinct to regions, but changing food habits and extensive migration of workers are spreading local tastes across the country.

 For instance, a sweet variant of the Gujarati Gorkeri pickle from a leading national player gets its highest sales from West Bengal. Similarly, a Rajasthani sweet lime pickle from the same brand gets its highest sales from Delhi, followed by Karnataka and Maharashtra. Packaged foods major ITC noticed that its branded wheat atta is growing faster in the south as compared to other geographies. Given the growing cosmopolitan consumer behaviour, brands are framing strategies in line with the emergence of fresh consumer demand across regions.
 
  
  
 Sanjana Desai, head of food division business development at Desai Brothers (Mother’s Recipe) said, "India is 20-30 different countries as far as food habits and tastes are concerned. Food companies that cater to community preferences are better placed to grow in India. Regional brands play a key role driving the business with their hands-on knowledge of the local consumers and their needs. Each region offers unique tastes & culture and brands are also now expanding and increasing their market shares due to the present growing cosmopolitan consumer behaviours. For example, a Punjabi living in Chennai due to work will be living on local cuisines and get accustomed to it and when he/she goes back to Punjab will thirst for the same and expects to have the product available in that region. Hence the regional brands are now growing on this increasing cosmopolitan Indian culture."
 
  
  
 
 ITC’s Aashirvaad atta has, in fact, enabled this shift in consumer trend through various marketing initiatives.
 
 
 
 Engagement- and activation-led initiatives are being done to convey the benefits of adopting atta as part of the everyday diet. Consumers are being introduced to new wheat-based dishes and accompaniments, which is being disseminated through digital and conventional platforms.
 
 Hemant Malik, chief executive of foods division at ITC, said there is a rising trend of people becoming increasingly health conscious, which is reflected in lifestyle changes. An IMRB exploratory study showed that the Indian housewife is making changes to her diet and lifestyle as a result of concerns related to lifestyle-related diseases and adulteration.
 
 Malik said, “We have been witnessing this trend in the south with consumers increasingly adopting wheat and wheat-based dishes. The incidence of ready-to-eat chapatis is also on the rise. According to a study done in  , households consuming atta at least once a week for breakfast has risen more than twofold in last one year. Chapatis & wheat dishes, which were earlier restricted to only dinner, are now becoming more accepted as a breakfast meal. This is reflected in household panel data, which shows that Aashirvaad atta enters about 75 per cent of households in the south.”
 
  
  
 
 Even in the ready-to-cook segment, Desai said the company has seen some special Kerala variants like Malabar chicken roast getting good traction in markets like New Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and other parts of India as well. Similarly,   is being sold in Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and northeastern states and has seen the demand increasing.
 
 Key factors driving sales are consumers, who are well travelled, experimenting with other cuisines. Brand expert Harish Bijoor, who founded Harish Bijoor Consults, said, “As migration becomes the norm, geography becomes history. People migrate for jobs beyond the boundaries of state, language, and indeed food-lines. As this happens, there is still a craving for what one is used to. Therefore, if you suddenly find a Haldiram’s Mathri — with a pickle sachet in it to boot — doing well in Madurai, do not be surprised.”
 
 “India is today certainly not what it was twenty years ago. Today, India is a quilted reality. A stitched (and not woven) and colorful quilt in literally every city and small-town, where the local and original is defied and the mixed and the new is the reality. People travel. And they do travel for various reasons. People from the villages move to the bigger town and the big city alike," he added.
 
 
