NAGPUR: While disposing off the PIL against construction of pillars near   by Maha Metro Rail Corporation Limited’s (MMRCL), Nagpur bench of   pointed out that Vivekanand Memorial at the dam’s spillway was bigger threat than MMRCL’s construction. 

 Quoting the observations from report submitted by Central Dam Safety Organisation (CDSO), a unit of Central Water Commission, the court stated that life of “the 146 years-old dam has already come to an end”.
 
 “The CDSO’s technical opinion reveals various contributing factors which may be a threat to the said dam. One of them, is a monumental structure ( ), which is constructed immediately downstream of spillway bar in the tail channel. Perusal of inspection note would reveal that the monumental structure poses much more threat to the dam safety,” a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar pointed out.
 
 The bench clarified that metro rail construction doesn’t affect or encroach the flood discharging capacity of downstream spill channel or bridge. “When an experts' body having expertise in the dam safety has opined that on account of construction of metro rail, there is no danger to dam, there is no reason to disbelieve the same.”
 
 The judges lamented that haphazard construction cropped up around the dam’s vicinity, also possess threats to the structure. They flayed politicians who allowed the constructionin clear violation of rules.
 
 “Over the years, the planning authorities permitted construction of buildings, roads, and allowed commercial activities within 200 metres of the dam, which may now lead to a flood-like situation.” 
 
 Criticizing the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the judges said, “The CDSO report stated that there is no technical impediment to dam due to metro. It also advised the NMC to implement preventive measures to avoid any hazardous situation in the future.”
 
 Lauding petitioner Mohammad Shahid Sharif’s efforts, the judges observed that a public spirited citizen like him ought to have approached HC much earlier when such illegal constructions and commercial activities were permitted by the planning authorities or monuments were erected. 
 
 “However, we find that though belatedly, petitioner's approaching HC has given us an opportunity to issue directions to various authorities to ensure dam safety, so that a flood like situation is avoided. Because of him, we could issue directions and avoid a situation, which may have disastrous consequences of Panshet like situation,” the court noted.
 
 
