CHENNAI: If sharing bed is the only way for women to come up in life, then does it include all women who are holding high posts now? This was the hardhitting question raised by the Madras high court in response to the controversial   post made by actor and   spokesperson S Ve   degrading women journalists.

 
 Justice S   made the observation on Thursday while refusing anticipatory bail to Shekher who apprehended arrest in connection with an FIR registered against him under Sections 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 505(1)(c) (Statements conducing to public mischief), 509 (Word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2002. Noting that words are more powerful than acts, the judge said, “Forwarded message is equal to accepting the message and endorsing it. When a celebritylike person forwards such messages, the common public will start believing it.”
 
 
 
 The language and the words used are not indirect, but direct, abusive, obscene and foul, which is not expected from a person of this calibre and age. There cannot be harsher words than this which portray all working women coming up in life as sacrificing their chastity, Justice Ramathilagam added.
 
 Pointing out that Shekher had only regretted forwarding the message, the judge said, “But he has not denied what is said in the message. No one has the right to abuse a woman and, if done, it is done in violation of her right. Using such unparliamentary words to abuse a woman is more heinous than calling a person by the caste name.”
 
 As to the contention of Shekher that the message was immediately deleted after noticing the mistake, the judge said, the message was only deleted and not erased. People should not go with a feeling that they can air anything and get away with a word ‘sorry’, the court added.
 
 Dismissing the plea, the court directed the police to proceed with the case the way they would investigate any other case.
 
 Shekher, in his petition, submitted that he was not the author of the Facebook post and had not known its contents when he forwarded it after receiving it from his Facebook friend Thirumalai Sa.
 
