HYDERABAD: People of India cannot be bound by a single narrative as democracy allows for multiple stories and counter-narratives, without the barriers of caste, religion, gender and language, said social activist   while delivering the valedictory address on the closing day of the Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF 2018) on Sunday.

 Fiercely championing the need to revisit the Constitution to preserve and protect the "secular, democratic republic" that India has always been, she echoed the concern of a large section of the country today which, Roy said, has been rattled by a distorted narrative which calls for amending the Constitution and portrays "Gandhi as a traitor and Godse a hero".
 
 "India has come a long way since Independence. We are less illiterate but increasingly more uneducated," said a feisty Roy, who has been living in rural Rajasthan for the last 44 years. "The moment matters of intelligence are discussed in public, we are asked to keep quiet. We are called anti-national and sometimes even jailed," she added.
 
 Questioning why places of dissent are fast disappearing, she passionately urged "aware India" to raise their voice against it and "demand a central place in a city" to speak to the seat of power. That   is now out of bounds for protesters and people have to cough up a hefty charge of 50,000 to converge at the   to make themselves heard are, Roy said, extremely unfortunate developments.
 
 Her gripping dialogue traversed through a slew of pertinent subjects - from Right to Information (which she played a pivotal role in curating) and Right to Freedom of Expression to religion, poverty and India's plurality. 
 
 "Targeting people through religion is the most heinous thing," she said, sounding a word of caution about the "collective memory" that India is building for it today by submitting itself to colonial and feudal ideas. "It will destroy India tomorrow," warned the founder of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan.
 
 Roy, once a civil servant, repeatedly called on the people to make way for logic and rationality instead of prejudice and absurdity in building India, as she reiterated on the burning need for more people to speak up. Borrowing from the English novelist,  , she reminded the gathering how 'in a time of universal deceit; telling the truth is a revolutionary act'.
 
 
