VADODARA: From constructing it on a land where animals were buried, to its architecture not being according to ‘vastu’ and inaugurating it on a no moon day – several such bad omens are being related to the new court complex in Diwalipura.

 The architecture and selecting an inauspicious day for inauguration were talking point among lawyers in the past too, but messages pointing out that animals were buried at the site many years ago and a temple should be constructed on the campus to ward off the bad omens are abuzz now. 
 
 According to advocates, it is because of these bad omens that the issue of their seating arrangement had cropped up and the lawyers went on a strike and that their work is yet to pick up. 
 
 It was on the day of inauguration when   president Nalin Patel had pointed to no moon day, but had ruled off the bad omen. After Patel, cabinet minister   and   assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi too in their speeches had mentioned about no moon day, but both of them had said post-afternoon, the date according to Gujarati calendar had changed and that an auspicious period of Chaitri Navratri had begun.
 
 However, the bad omen of no moon day remained at the centre of discussion among lawyers during and after the strike till recently when somebody circulated a message of existence of a graveyard on the same land. An advocate said it was actually not a graveyard, but animals on which experiments were conducted by Vaccine Institute lay buried there after their death.
 
 To ward off this bad omen, the buzz among lawyers is now that a temple of Lord Shiva, like the one which was there in Laal Court, should be constructed on the court campus.
 
 “At  , people come in search of justice and if a temple is made people will get hopes. Lawyers too will be able to pray at the beginning of the day,” a lawyer said.
 
 “There may be such talks, but it is practically not possible. Today, some lawyers are asking for a temple, tomorrow Muslim advocates would demand a place of worship, Christians for a cross to be placed and so on,” Baroda Bar Association president Patel said. 
 
 
