KOZHIKODE: Researchers from the   ( ) have discovered prehistoric cupules believed to be dating back to the Stone Age from Malappuram and  . 

 
 Cupules, also called cup stones, are man-made depressions on rock surfaces and are the earliest known prehistoric art but are found rarely in the state.
 
 The discoveries have been made by a team of researchers led by P  , head of the department of history. The team found a number of cupules on rock surfaces from the two sites at Mepperi Kunnu near Ambalavayal in Wayanad and from Parambath Kavu near Valanchery in Malappuram. 
 
 The site at Parambath Kavu is near the history- rich hillock at Vendallur from where CU researchers had earlier found evidences of possible continuous human settlement in the form of megalithic post-hole burial cists and petroglyphs dating back to Iron Age to hundreds of clay dolls from late medieval period.
 
 The other major cupule sites in the state are Muthalamada in Palakkad, Piralimattom in   and Mattidampara in Kollam.
 
 "Both the sites where the cupules were discovered also have megalithic burial sites and this point to existence of human settlement in the area dating from prehistoric times. The cupules could have had its origins in the Stone Age and could be used till the megalithic period dating back to 600 BC. A comprehensive historical study is required in both the sites," Sivadasan said.
 
 He said that while six cupules were found on top of a rock outcrop on top of a hill at Mepperi Kunnu, at Parambath Kavu there were three sets of cupules numbering around 24 on laterite surface and one had a definite pattern.
 
 "We don't know the exact purpose for which the cupules were used. The prehistoric petroglyphs could either be work of art or could have been used for ritualistic purposes. The cupules in both the places are 2.5-inch-wide and have a depth of around one inch deep," he added.
 
 Historians have also called for steps to protect the rock motifs as the ones at Mepperi Kunnu in Wayanad were facing threats from granite quarrying. "Already, half of the hillock where the cupules have been found have been devoured by a quarry which has now been abandoned," Sivadasan added.
 
