The recent Supreme Court verdict, reiterating that adult men and women have the right to live together or be in live-in relationship without marriage, came as a boost to many live-in couples in the State. 

 The ruling was made while restoring the marriage of 20-year-old Thiruvananthapuram natives, Thushara and Nandakumar, whose marriage had been annulled by the Kerala High Court on the grounds that the groom has not attained the marriageable age.
 
 While the apex court’s reassertion has been hailed by the progressive lot in the society, many are still circumspect on how much of a change it will bring about in a country where friendships between a boy and a girl are still frowned upon and a majority still hesitate to provide accommodation to single men and women. We ask a few if today’s norm of   is socially acceptable in Kerala.
 
 
 
 Welcoming the apex court’s verdict, Nandakumar, who works in a travel agency, says he is happy to become a reason for the ruling. “I believe that the verdict will make it easier for the youth to live with the person they love. And now that it is legal, the moral policing might also reduce,” he says, adding that Thushara and he plans to register their marriage with the support of their families when he turns 21.
 
 While those in live-in relationships laud the verdict, they still say that the prevalent social stigma prevent them from revealing their relationship status. Anjali, a 23-year-old from Ernakulam who studies in Chennai, says that “a live-in relationship is a test run”.
 
 “It is a method to judge if two partners can co-exist together in the future. We can vote when we turn 18 years old, so why can’t we choose our own partners?” she asks. “I have been in a relationship with a Malayali guy for three years. I think more people especially in the towns should start accepting such couples so that they could live together without any fear.”
 Supporting her is 48-year-old bio-engineer Anil Jose, from Kochi, who says that one must be bold enough to say that they are in a live-in relationship.
 Anil, who is living together with his partner Aswathy Krishna, says, “You being strong enough to reveal your relationship status is the first step to change the mentality of society. Sharing a roof with another person is your freedom and privacy. Others have no right to interfere. So, I don’t think the SC verdict will change everything overnight.”
 
 He brings up a hotel-booking app that shows the number of hotels that allow unmarried couples to share a room. “In Ernakulam, 90% of the hotels don’t entertain unmarried couples. So, whom should we blame?”
 
 
 
 While living together is legally approved, there are still ambiguities regarding property rights for their children. Writer CS Chandrika who has been in a live-in relationship for the past 23 years, says only financially stable women should opt for this.
 “I chose this life as I don’t believe in marriage, which according to me is a patriarchal institution that has the wife live based on the interests of the husband. In a live-in relationship, you can call it quits easily if you face violence. There are no long legal procedures like divorce involved. But the woman must be financially independent, especially if there are kids born in that relationship as it doesn’t have any legal validity,” explains Chandrika.
 
 Though divorce can become an ugly conclusion of a matrimonial life, a marriage certificate can safeguard a woman’s rights. But cohabitation implies less legal obligations even though the law recognises it as being a “relationship in the nature of marriage”.
 
 J Sandhya, a lawyer based in Thiruvanathapuram and former member of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, says female partners are safeguarded under Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. “There have been many cheating cases under the live-in system. In many cases women go through mental traumas to overcome the split especially if the relationship has lasted several years,” she says.
 
 Though the law supports her if she faces any atrocities under the relationship, there are certain complications also, says Sandhya. “The victim should present proof of their relationship. It becomes necessary if the couple have children from the relationship. As it is not marriage, in cheating cases women will be mentally stressed and humiliated to prove the paternity of the child and could even be pushed for DNA test,” she says.
 
 
 
 The young generation though has welcomed the liberal view of the judiciary as it gives them the freedom to choose their partner and live with them.
 The concept of marriage or monogamy established in India 60 years ago was to stop a person from having multiple partners at a time, says Karthyayini Nair, a culture coordinator. The 23-year-old opines that with the passage of time, lifestyle of the people has changed and live-in is a concept which gives them the freedom to choose whom they want to spent their life with. 
 
 “As a person I don’t believe in this single-partner relationship. Live-in is a process where both partners work out their relationship by checking their bonding and mutual understanding. If they fail to connect, they can just break up. The partners have no strings attached. They are emotionally prepared to move on in life and find other person who is suitable for them,” says Karthiyayini.Though she welcomes the practice, she adds the decision to start a live-in relationship must not be a selfish act as it may upset parents who value traditional morals.
 “As an individual, I am ready for a live-in relationship. But as a daughter, I also value my parents’ beliefs and they don’t support the modern norm of co-habitation. Majority of our Indian parents want their children to get married and settled. I think it will take time for live-in relationships to be acceptable,” she adds.
 
 Majority of the parents though are still on the other side of the fence, against live-in relationships.
 Sudha G Prasad, a retired government school teacher from Vattiyoorkavu, says that the live-in system can be encouraged by the present generation when they become parents. “The culture passed on from our forefathers gives importance to husband and wife relationship. I also want my children to follow that. When their children get into live-in relationships and they feel it is right, then they can encourage it.,” she says.
 
 Sudha says that if the current generation insist for live-in relationships, 30s would the perfect age to do it. “It is a stage where they become more matured as adults. So if they believe live-in is the best option then, as a parent I believe I should not interfere in their decision,” she says. 
 
 
