Mohali: The Greater   Area Developmental Authority (Gmada) has finally prepared a plan to install a lift at the Fateh Burj at Baba   Memorial at Chappar Chiri. The proposal is awaiting Punjab government's nod, said Gmada chief administrator Ravi Bhagat. 

 The Gmada would further spend Rs 10 lakh to Rs 12 lakh to modify the Burj structure to fix the lift, Bhagat said. "We have prepared a plan to install the lift at Fateh Burj. Recently, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh issued directions to get the lift installed at Fateh Burj. The plan has been sent for approval to Punjab government."
 
 Fateh Burj at   Bahadur Memorial is the tallest victory tower in the country standing at around 103 metres tall. The lift is to be installed to take visitors till the third floor of the tower, from where they can have a view of the memorial.
 
 While explaining the modifications to be made in the Fateh Burj to install the lift, Gmada engineer Sunil Kansal said, "We have prepared a plan to modify the dimensions of the Burj structure as per the lift specifications. It may take approximately three months to build it after we get approval from the Punjab government."
 
 He also added that the lighting of Fateh Burj will also be re-introduced soon as some repair works are also under way. The lights got damaged during the flooring of the area near Fateh Burj.
 
 Last year, Haryana chief minister   also visited Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Memorial to take inspiration of Fateh Burj to be replicated at a memorial in Lohgarh, the capital of the first Sikh state established under Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, in Yamunanagar district.
 
 Fateh Burj, which commemorates the victory of Banda Singh Bahadur over Mughal governor  , was inaugurated with much fanfare by former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal in 2011. The 338-foot tower, dedicated to the Sikh warrior, is part of a memorial spread over 20 acres. 
 
 Set up at an estimated cost of Rs 35 crore, the memorial made it to the heritage map of India. Even though the memorial receives 2.2 lakh visitors annually, the Gmada, which is responsible for its upkeep, has failed to attract more visitors. 
 
 
