SRINAGAR: Clashes erupted in several parts of Kashmir following the recovery of two more bodies from   village in   district on Monday, a day after an Army vehicle was attacked by terrorists. The South Kashmir district remained on the edge after police recovered the bodies, taking the toll in Sunday night's firing on the Army vehicle to six, amid a shutdown call by separatists.

 The police recovered the bodies, including that of a LeT terrorist, from an orchard at Saidpora in Shopian. The slain terrorist was identified as Ashiq Hussain Bhat. “The terrorist had been missing since November 13, 2017. Investigations suggested Bhat was part of the terror squad which had attacked the Army vehicle at Pahnoo village in Shopian on Sunday,” police said.
 
 On Sunday night, one terrorist and three overground workers were killed in the Army firing after a mobile vehicle check post had come under attack.
 
 Schools, colleges and educational institutions remained closed on Monday due to the strike. Public transport was off the roads in most parts of Kashmir and train services from Baramulla to Banihal was suspended. Authorities imposed restrictions in areas falling under seven police stations of Srinagar. While mobile internet service was completely snapped in Shopian and Pulwama districts, high-speed service was suspended across Kashmir.
 
 DGP SP Vaid said, “The police began probe into the Shopian incident in which two terrorists and four others were killed on Sunday night. The firing began after the terrorists opened at Army personnel during a routine checking, prompting the Army personnel to retaliate.”
 
 Clashes erupted in several parts, including Budgam, Bandipora, Anantnag and Shopian. Hurriyat leaders Syed Ali Geelani, Yasin Malik and Mirwaiz Umer Farooq had called for a shutdown in the   in protest against the “killings”.
 
 Police detained JKLF chairman Malik after he tried to stage a protest against the alleged killing of civilians. Thousands of people, including armed terrorists, joined funeral of the six deceased, say police.A large number of people took to the streets in Tral, Awantipora, Pulwama, Shopian and several areas of South Kashmir, triggering clashes with forces.
 
