 has won a favourable order in a longstanding service tax litigation. In a recent order, the Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) has set aside service tax demands and penalties of nearly Rs 25 crore that had been imposed on the police for providing   to various parties.

 Security had been provided by Mumbai Police to banks, high profile individuals, Mumbai Port Trust, Mazagaon Dock, and Tata Power, to name a few. Security had also been provided during cricket matches, such as IPL, and for various other functions. Service tax authorities held that these activities performed by the police were in the nature of ‘security agency services’ which are taxable. Thus, it imposed a service tax demand of Rs 13.5 crore and a penalty of Rs 10.9 crore. The period of demand covered nearly six years (from May 2006 up to February 2012). The service tax litigation finally reached the doorsteps of CESTAT, which adjudicates indirect tax disputes.
 
 Speaking to TOI, chartered accountant S S Gupta, who represented Mumbai Police, said, “The police carried out sovereign functions for the purpose of maintaining law and order, which cannot be subject to service tax.”
 
 Before CESTAT, he relied on a decision of the Jodhpur tribunal, which had been upheld by the  . The tribunal had held that activities of deploying police personnel on payment basis is also part of the statutory function of the state government. The fees that are recovered and deposited with the state government are also statutory in nature. Its order also noted that all the conditions mentioned in a circular issued by the   ( ) were met, viz: the police performed statutory duties, collected fees as per the charges fixed by the state government and deposited the sums with the state government. Thus no levy of service tax could be imposed on these activities carried out by the police department.
 
 Service tax is now subsumed in the Goods and Services Tax (GST), which was introduced on July 1 last year. According to FAQs (frequently asked questions) issued by the CBEC, services provided by the police to private business entities will be subject to GST. However, differing views also exist. “There is no change in the character of the activities performed by the police, which will continue to be sovereign in nature. Thus, GST cannot be imposed,” said Gupta.
 
