KOLKATA: The railways may have launched a drive to fill up nearly 90,000 posts in what is being touted as the world’s largest online recruitment drive but   will have to continue to rely on other zones to fill up vacancies for motormen. And Metro will be requiring several more motormen in the days to come with several new sections getting commissioned.

 “Metro Railway motormen are on lien from   (ER) and   (SER). Though driving metro trains will become a more challenging task in the days to come with rakes getting more technologically advanced, no system has evolved to recruit them directly in the Metro Railway cadre. Presently, motormen from ER and SER serve for two years with the Metro and then return to their respective zones,” a senior Metro Railway official said.
 
 Under the latest recruitment drive, ER and SER hope to fill up more than 1,000 posts of assistant loco pilots (ALPs). It will be years before these ALPs become qualified enough to take charge of passenger trains and move to the Metro for a couple of years. After initial training and handling, an ALP becomes a shunter and is in charge of moving empty rakes between the stations and yards. After nearly five years, the shunter would get promoted to a good train driver. It would take at least three more years before the person will be placed in charge of a passenger train.
 
 “It may even take 10 years for an ALP to be promoted to a passenger train driver. A passenger train driver can’t drive a mail or express train but can be the motorman an EMU local or metro rake. This means that Metro Railway borrows passenger train drivers from other zones. The problem is that there is a crunch of manpower in every zone and it gets difficult to spare staff. The Metro has nearly 200 motormen now and many of them would be completing the two year terms and returning to their respective zones soon. Trouble is that there are no promotion prospects for motormen in the Metro and they don’t wish to stay,” another official said. 
 
 
