JAIPUR: The   (MHTR) will soon get a tiger. The state   is working on a war footing to develop infrastructure for the reintroduction of tiger at MHTR, a pet project of chief minister  .

 Planned in the reserve’s Darrah region, the tiger relocation is expected to be done by March 31, the deadline given by chief secretary  . The wildlife department has also sought dates from the chief minister to inaugurate the project in April.
 
 
 Principal secretary, forest and environment department, Subodh Agarwal inspected the MHTR area on Thursday. Senior forest officials accompanied Agarwal.
 
 For the soft release of tigers, the MHTR has constructed an enclosure in 28 hectares. The enclosure is being built to help the animal acclimatize before being released into the wild. “The work to relocate the tiger is going on at full swing. Nearly 800 people have been deployed to complete the work by the given deadline, i.e., March 31,” Agarwal told TOI.
 
 The forest department chose Darrah as it would give the tiger a contiguous habitat of 200 sq km, which is estimated to be larger than the core area of Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR). Before the first tiger is released into the reserve, the wildlife department will also develop a prey base and improve the living conditions for the big cat at MHTR.
 
 “More cheetal from Jaipur zoo and Delhi will be shifted to the reserve to increase the prey base for tigers. Directions have also been given to develop more water points,” added Agarwal.
 
 MHTR will be the third reserve in the country, which will see the reintroduction of tigers. Following the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)’s approval, the wildlife department had initially shortlisted eight big cats—five males and three females—to be relocated from RTR. It has now shortened the list to four. Out of this, only three—one tiger and two tigresses—will be relocated to MHTR. Initially, the department will consider one male tiger, T-91, that recently left Ranthambore and reached the forests of Bundi. The tiger has been traced to Ramgarh sanctuary in Bundi district.
 
 The project was first initiated in 2003 and notified in 2013, shortly before Raje became chief minister for the second time. The relocation project is expected to be completed during the present BJP government’s tenure. The densely wooded and picturesque Darrah sanctuary is spread over the hilly terrain with valleys and gorges near the Sawaan Bhado Dam. Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sq km, covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, initially, only 200 sq km in Jhalawar will be dedicated to tigers.
 
