MHOW: Several inmates and   at   are worried and fear any possible   or clash between prisoners since Indore-based notorious gangster   has been transferred here on the direction of senior jail authorities. 

 The jail staff is anxious about the possible clash since two other history-sheeters, Mangilal Thakur and Hemant Luniya, are already at the jail. Besides the duo, the jail has 52 other inmates who are facing trials in several murder cases. 
 
 Jail sources said, it is a sub jail, which is meant only for the undertrials facing cases in the Mhow court. The jail manual says, as soon as any court convicts any inmate of Mhow Jail, he is required to be sent either to Central Jail or District Jail in Indore. Despite such rules and regulations, Luniya and Shakir and other hardcore criminals have been transferred to Mhow Jail. It has put not only the jail staff but the other inmates too in a fix.
 
 The jail staff, on condition of anonymity, has expressed their fear regarding a gang-war like situation inside the jail and other untoward incident. The reason for their panic is an old rivalry between Shakir and Thakur. Thakur had murdered Ajay Thas alias Bambam, who was a close aide of Shakir. Sources say that Shakir has purposely managed to get lodged in Mhow Jail probably to take revenge of his aide’s murder.
 
 Another source claimed that there is a possibility that Shakir could have taken a contract of killing Thakur due to which he has come to Mhow Jail.
 
 Recently, many senior officials of jail department and administration inspected the jail to check for any irregularities. In almost all their surprise inspections, objectionable items were recovered from the possession of the inmates. It clearly indicates about the lapses in the jail security.
 
 Jailor Sunil Chaurasia said that Mhow Jail was not suitable for criminals like Shakir. He said that he had already apprised his seniors of the possibility of any untoward incident since notorious criminals of Mhow and Indore were being kept together in the small jail.
 
 Seven years ago, a notorious criminal Jitu Thakur was murdered at Mhow Jail and after the incident it became infamous throughout the state. Jitu was murdered by three criminals, who managed to enter the jail by firing at a sentry and injuring him before forcing him to unlock the main gate in broad daylight.
 
 
