GURUGRAM: The district health department has asked for more   deployment at government hospitals in Gurugram after two men assaulted a government doctor at General Hospital, Civil Lines, on Friday. The assaulters were allegedly inebriated and got upset when they were asked to wait for their turn for consultation. 

 At around 5:30am on Friday, Rohan, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, and Arun, a resident of Om Nagar, visited the emergency ward of the hospital. They had been drinking and got into a scuffle during which Rohan hurt his arm with a liquor bottle. In an inebriated state, the friends reached the hospital and went straight into the doctor’s room where they started yelling after they could not find a doctor there. 
 
 Dr Irfan who was on emergency duty at the time was treating another patient in the hospital. The doctor proceeded to allot a bed to Rohan and asked the two men to fill the patient’s form as the bruise wasn’t very deep. But this irked them further and they started hurling abuses in loud voices at the doctor. When the doctor asked them to lower their voices as it might be disturbing other patients, the men started thrashing him. The doctor was injured in his eye, stomach and arm. 
 
 An FIR was filed at Civil Lines police station on Friday under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). The duo were arrested on Friday and were produced in the court on Saturday and were released on bail later in the day. 
 
 Following the incident, health officials met the deputy commissioner and submitted a memorandum, demanding a beef-up in security arrangement at government hospitals. The health officials have requested for strengthening of the police posts at hospitals by deployment of more cops. They also demanded that a PCR be stationed outside hospitals for emergencies. “This is not the first incident of assault on a doctor. We work in very vulnerable circumstances and we want better security for us so that doctors can feel secure and confident while providing medical assistance to patients,” said Dr Pradeep Sharma, principal medical officer, Gurugram.
 
