NEW DELHI: Just a day before the city markets are going to observe a total bandh,   floors of 38 properties at south Delhi’s posh   market were sealed on Monday. 

 Manmohan Singh, general secretary of the Hauz Khas traders’ welfare association, alleged that the process had been turned into an extortion activity. “We have sanctioned plans for these floors and are paying commercial taxes. In many cases, we have even paid the amnesty scheme charges,” he said. The Supreme Court-empowered monitoring committee and the corporation “are creating an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty all over Delhi,” Singh alleged. 
 
 Officials of the south corporation’s building department said basements and upper floors at the complex were being sealed for violations such as unsanctioned floors and non-payment of conversion charges. “All basements will be sealed without any exception,” he added.
 
 The establishments affected include BBC Media Action, Uber India, Perfect Accounting, State Bank of India, UCO Bank, Bank of Baroda and ICICI Bank. Sections of Chandni Singh Studio and several law firms were shut, too. 
 
 “Our locker section has been sealed. What will we tell our customers? In case of UCO Bank, it is even worse as its basement also houses the treasury,” said an SBI official. Priyanka Dutt, who heads BBC Media Action, said they had been operating out of it for the past 11 years without any issue. “We comply with all regulations,” Dutt said, adding that they could take out their files before the storage unit was sealed.
 
 The market, developed by DLF in 1960s, has 52 plots. Several traders showed the   team slips for payment of amnesty conversion charges ranging from Rs 30 lakh to Rs 1.2 crore but to no avail. Ravinder Singh, owner of a new three-storey building on plot No. E-26, said that despite paying Rs 1.19 crore as conversion charges on Monday itself, the basement was sealed. “They have accepted Rs 38 lakh as conversion charges for this basement barely a few hours ago. They are taking our money and still penalising us,” Singh said. At least 11 other traders also paid the charge on Monday.
 
 The market had been declared a commercial place in Master Plan 2001, making the current action illegal but no one is listening, said Dinesh Madan of the traders’ association.
 
 The north corporation also carried out a similar drive in Model Town, Rajinder Nagar, Karol Bagh and Kashmere Gate, taking action against 81 properties. The largest number of shops — 58 — were sealed in Old Rajinder Nagar Market, Ramesh Nagar and an MCD market in Karol Bagh. In Paschim Vihar, the basement of Shri Ram Global Pre-school was shut. Ten transport units at Gokhale market near Tis Hazari were sealed for allegedly operating commercial units or godowns illegally in basements and second floors, an official said. Corporation mayor Preety Agarwal asked the commissioner on Monday to bring in a proposal to waive off interests and penalties on conversion charges to facilitate early deposits.
 
 
