LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to life imprisonment after finding him guilty in a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and protection of children from sexual offences act. The court of additional sessions judge   also imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh on the convict and in case of default in fine payment, he will have to further undergo one-year rigorous imprisonment. 

 On May 11, 2017,   police had booked the accused, who worked at a tyre workshop, under Section 304 of the IPC after he pumped air into the private parts of a minor worker from a pressure pump. Later, after investigation, the police added Section 302, IPC, against the accused and booked the owner of the shop. However, later after investigations by a senior officer, Section 302 was deducted and protection of children from sexual offences act was added in the case.
 
 As per prosecution, on May 11, 2017, a police party of Dugri police station was at a checkpost on the side of a canal when the mother of the victim came to them and recorded her statement that her younger son used to work at a tyre shop. She said that on May 10, 2017, her younger son went to his workplace and after some time a worker of the workshop came to her and told her that her son had suffered serious injuries and the accused and owner of the workshop were taking her son to a hospital. Later, he died during treatment at a hospital.
 
 The complainant said that on the day of crime, his son’s clothes had got wet because of washing a car and he was drying them with a pressure pump. She added that the accused got furious because and he pushed the pressure pump pipe into his private parts after which her minor son suffered serious injuries and later died during treatment. The police booked the accused and arrested him. The police also booked the owner of the shop but later let her off after she was found innocent.   said that the next day they came to know that the accused had run away from the workshop after which they got the statement recorded with the police. 
 
 The court after taking evidence on record convicted the accused. 
 
 
