Nagpur: The state’s commissionerate of agriculture has forwarded a proposal to Central Insecticides Board and Registration Committee (CIBRC) seeking a permanent ban on five pesticides found to be used by last year’s inhalation victims. The state has also sought a ban on all pesticides which carry red triangle mark on the packets. The red triangle classifies the product as highly toxic. If the CIBRC accepts the proposal then a whole gamut of pesticides will be banned apart from the five named in the state’s letter to the board.  Last year, over 60 persons, mainly farm workers, had died between August to October due to accidental inhalation of pesticides. The highest toll was in Yavatmal district which also has the disrepute of being the farmers’ suicide capital. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government body for farmers, said, “Maharashtra is the first state to seek a permanent ban on the pesticides.”  Located at Faridabad in the national capital region, CIBRC is a unit under the Union ministry for agriculture and farmers’ welfare. The proposal comes in line with the high court’s judgment issued in February this year in the PIL filed by social activist Jammu Anand. The court had directed the state government to move the Centre with necessary material for banning the sale, distribution or use of the particular insecticides in the state. The ruling also called for doubling the compensation to victims’ kin to Rs4 lakh and framing a uniform policy for awarding a compensations in case of such incidents. “The policy is being worked out,” said a source in the government. In November 2017, the state government had issued a notification banning five pesticides found to be used by the victims. It was a temporary ban for a period of 60 days, applicable in the affected districts of Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Washim and Yavatmal. A state cannot ban any pesticide for a period more than 60 days. A permanent ban needs a decision from the CIBRC. The pesticides banned for the 60-day period include — acephate 75% SP, monocrotophos 36% SL, diafenthiuron 50% WP, firpronil 40%+imidacloprid 40% WG, profefonos40%+ cypermethrin 40% EC. Out of these, monocrotophos is classified as an extremely toxic pesticide. Others range from moderate to highly toxic chemicals.  Sources in the pesticide business say a number of other pesticides are available in the market which carry the red triangle mark. The state has now sought a permanent ban on the sale and distribution of the same insecticides. The letter forwarded to the CIBRC over a week ago mentioned that there was no antidote available for two of the pesticides — diafenthiuron 50% WP, and fripronil40%+imidacloprid40% WG. Will govt ban glyphosate? There have been suggestions from field level offices of the state’s agriculture department to ban the use of glyphosate, a chemical used in herbicides. American biotech giant Monsanto is one of the major manufacturers of glyphosate-based herbicides. Availability of glyphosate in the market encourages the use of illegal herbicide-tolerant seeds. A query seeking the state’s stance on the suggestion on glyphosate ban to the principal secretary (agriculture) Bijoy Kumar went unanswered.