AURANGABAD:   is considered among the most progressive states in the country but it is far behind with respect to conviction in prohibition cases. Data available with the state criminal investigation department (CID) shows that the state recorded less than 1% conviction in cases of sale of illicit liquor that are registered under the prohibition act. 

 In 2014, the state recorded 1.35% conviction in prohibition cases, in 2015, it reached 1.65%, only to register a dip and reach 1.14% in 2016. Compared to 2016, the year 2017 registered a further dip to reach a new low of 0.57%.
 
 Several districts in the state do not even have a single conviction. Last year, 1,03,453 cases were registered in the state, out of which 47,864 were tried. Out of them, only 273 cases ended in conviction, making it to 0.57%. Nashik, Nagpur and   had nil convictions in 2017. In contrast, the Mumbai railway police topped with 58.33% , followed by Mumbai city commissionerate and   commissionerate with 28% and 9.61% respectively.
 
 An analysis of prohibition cases in 2016 shows suspects in 76% of the cases were acquitted only because of witnesses turning hostile. The serious dip in the conviction rate clouded the recently concluded conference on crime. The conference, which was held in Navi Mumbai, was attended by senior police officers from across the state. Director general of police ( ) Sanjay Barve, who presided over the conference, was shocked when he came to know about the falling conviction rate. Barve asked all the 35 superintendents of police and the 10 commissioners of police to ensure maximum convictions in prohibition cases. 
 
 State director general of police   could not be reached for his comment on the issue. Prabhat Kumar, inspector general of police (law and order), said, "Investigation officers are found to be filing charge sheets without chemical analysis reports. The Maharashtra Prohibition Act 1949 being a special act the investigating officer is supposed to get the chemical analysis report within a year and submit it to the court but it is not being done.
 
 Director general of police (prisons)  , who also heads the state's law and order, said, "The conviction rate is very poor because of the poor quality of investigation, chemical analysis is done but the reports are not collected. In some cases, the reports are collected but not sent to the court. In several cases, the samples are not collected or even sent for chemical analysis."
 
 
