Dr Partha Banerjee is a human rights activist and labour educator in America. After his Bengali memoir titled “Ghotikahini” in 2016, the New Yorker came up with an English translation of 18 Bengali stories titled “Music Box and Moonshine” this year. The 42nd  , which concludes on Sunday, was the venue for the launch of his book.

 
  
  
 
 Banerjee is among the many immigrant authors writing in Bengali whose Kolkata Book Fair connection dates back to childhood memories. For some among them, nothing gives them a greater kick than having their books released at the fair.
 
 New Jersey-based veteran author Alolika   is currently in Kolkata. A columnist with a leading Bengali daily for 20 years, Mukhopadhyay has edited Bengali literary magazines published at the Banga Sammalen. “This year, a collection of my stories titled ‘Deshantorer Swajon’ was released at the fair,” said Mukhopadhyay, who already has seven published works.
 
 Author Subodh Sarkar describes most of these authors as “perpetual fighters”. “They are neither respected as poets in America nor taken seriously in Bengal. This is doubly frustrating. But I wait for good poetry whether it is in California or in Kolkata. I find Alokesh Duttaroy of Boston, Goutam Dutta of Dallas and Rudrasankar of Atlanta quite engaging. They really write good poetry,” Sarkar said.
 
 Dutta, who is a chemical engineer by profession in Dallas, is a regular at the Kolkata Book fair this year. He doesn’t have a release this year but is still happy to be back. His first book – “Joddha Ghumiye Achhe” - was published some 20 years ago. Since then, he has four published works. One of them is titled “Aami Amar Mrityur Por Swadhinota Chaina”. Along with  , he edited this work of 34 translators on 100 years of African American poetry in Bengali. “Since 2010, I have been running a bilingual webzine titled ‘Uralpool’. It is published four times a year. We also give awards to poets at the book fair,” Dutta said.
 
 Duttaroy, who is a scientist by profession and a poet by passion, met up with Dutta at the fair grounds. The author of “8000 Mile”, “T-20” and “Notes@Facebook” released his fourth book titled “Keyboarder Kobitagulo” at this Book Fair. The smell of books, the nostalgia and the thrill of watching readers pick up his books from the shelves for their quality and not because he is an NRI writer is addictive. “My expression and craftsmanship are unique and not very common in contemporary Bengali poetry. However, I am not a big fan of the ritualistic part of book release events at the fair. Book readings at the fair with interactions with the readers are more fruitful,” he said.
 
 Among immigrant authors, Duttaroy appreciates the poetry of Aryanil Mukhopadhyay, Shoumyo Dasgupta, Ankur Saha and Goutam Dutta for “their exhilarating diasporic expressions and sense of deep-rooted historical perspective”. He recommends the plays by playwright Sudipto Bhowmick and novels of Koushik Sen for “capturing the duality of current immigrant society” and “prolific character portrayal” respectively. “I also like Partha Banerjee’s razor sharp comments on social values,” Duttaroy added.
 
 Banerjee couldn’t be personally present at the fair. But his wife, Mukti Banerjee, represented him at the launch of his book where he translated stories by Rabindranath Tagore, Saratchandra Chattopadhyay, Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay to Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay, Syed Mujtaba Ali, Leela Majumdar, Sharadindu Bandopadhyay and Sunil Gangopadhyay, among others. “I really don’t have any particular fascination about launching at the Book Fair. If I am there, I would attend it. And that’s about it,” Banerjee said from New York, while admitting that attending the fair has also become some sort of a status symbol, especially for authors living abroad.
 
 
