GUWAHATI: The spirit of festivity has emerged victorious as Assam gears up to celebrate   braving the severe cold weather. Ignoring the extremely chilly weather conditions that the state has been reeling under for almost about a week now, people have completed their preparations for the harvest festival which will be celebrated on the auspicious occasion of Makar Sankranti on Sunday. 

 Magh Bihu is one of the biggest festivals of the state celebrated with merriment across the Brahmaputra valley. Held during the Assamese month of Magh, it is also known as   as feasting remains an integral part of the festival. The occasion marks the abundance of grains after the paddy harvesting season in the state gets over. 
 
 Traditional Assamese delicacies such as Laroo (Laddu) and Pitha (Rice cake) made of coconut, sesame and jaggery are being made in large numbers before the festival. Mejis have been built to be lit up on Magh Bihu as a traditional form of paying obeisance to the fire god. And with Uruka set to be celebrated on Saturday night, the festive spirit has already gripped the state.
 
 IMD officials said on Friday that the cold spell will continue across the entire northeast, and especially Assam, till the end of the Magh Bihu of celebrations. "The chilly weather conditions will continue to prevail in Assam and northeast during this Makar Sankranti. There's not much of an immediate relief in sight, but it is likely to get warmer by the next weekend," a senior official of IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) based in Guwahati told TOI. 
 
 RMC officials pointed out that amongst the northeastern plains, the lowest minimum temperature of 7 degree Celsius was recorded at Tinsukia in upper Assam during the last 24 hours, while among the hill areas, Shillong continues to remain the coldest at 2 degree Celsius. However, night temperatures rose across Manipur and no significant change was observed in the rest of the region during the last 24 hours.
 
 "Temperatures were below normal in Meghalaya and normal across Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Tripura during the last 24 hours," said an RMC bulletin issued this morning. Along with Assam, dry weather conditions continue to prevail across Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura and there is little relief from the severe cold during the night hours.
 
 
