Asia may not have made great strides at the World Cup but, at least in  , you could see some progress. For the first time, Asia will have five representatives as Australia, Japan,  , Iran and Saudi Arabia take centerstage. A record 16 match officials from the continent have also been handpicked for official duty at the biggest sporting spectacle in the world.

 
 
 
 Saudi Arabia will play the opener in Moscow on June 15, and while all eyes will be focused on hosts Russia, Asia will have something to cheer.
 
 Saudi Arabia’s clash with Russia will be the 100th clash at the World Cup involving an Asian team since the Dutch East Indies, now Indonesia, represented the continent for the first time in 1938. It’s a landmark for Asian football, although there are scars to heal, more particularly from the last edition when the four teams collected a total of just three points.
 
 
 
 Nobody expected Asian teams to set the World Cup alight like they did in 2002 when, playing at home, South Korea made it to the semifinals and Japan fought their way to the round of 16. It was a remarkable achievement for Asia, but neither before, or after, has Asia lived up to the hype.
 
 “Asia’s performances at the World Cup have been in line with every continent, with the exception of Europe and South America. There is still a large gap between the traditional powerhouses of Europe and South America and those from the rest of the continents. By putting in place the technical building blocks such as youth, coach education and grassroots charters, the AFC is trying to close that gap as quickly as possible,” Andy Roxburgh, technical director for the Asian Football Confederation (AFC), told TOI in an exclusive interview.
 
 Among the most influential Scots in world football, the former Scotland manager has a point. Apart from USA (1930) and a remarkable South Korea (2002), no team from beyond South America or Europe has made it to the last-four stage of the competition. Many have come close but the gulf in difference is there for all to see.
 
 Asia is hoping it will change in Russia.
 
 Iran, the continent’s best-ranked side, have a difficult group with former World champions Spain and European champions Portugal favoured to go through. Team Melli have the arsenal though;   is the toast of the continent and Alireza Jahanbakhsh finished as the top scorer in the Dutch league. If the three Iranian players, Azmoun, Saeid Ezatolahi and Milad Mohammadi, put their Russian league experience to good use, they might make everyone sit up and take notice.
 
 South Korea have an equally tough group with Germany, Mexico and Sweden jostling for the knockout berths. Australia, who lost all their group matches in 2014, will look to make amends, helped by a favourable group where, apart from France, they have to contend with less fierce opposition.
 
 Saudi Arabia, the worst ranked team in the competition, should fancy their chances from a group that, at least on paper, is the weakest. A group that has Russia, Egypt and Uruguay is certainly no group of death.
 
 Since making their debut in 1998, Japan have appeared at every single tournament, with Russia set to be their sixth appearance. They should make that count, particularly from a lightweight but tricky group that has Colombia, Poland and Senegal.
 
 “We have to be realistic and recognise that this development will not take place overnight. We wish our teams the best of luck in Russia,” said Roxburgh, asked if the presence of five Asian teams at the World Cup for the first time will change equations.
 
 Whatever the past, there is lots to look forward to after a century at the World Cup. No wonder the AFC’s slogan remains ‘The Future is Asia’.
 
