

 CHANDIGARH: After TOI had reported last week that Punjab   secretary   was roaming freely despite
 
 her anticipatory bail being dismissed by a local court in a dowry and cheating case, she has gone underground.
 
 Mishra is not available at her house in Sector 38 and has not been attending office since last week. Police have visited her house but failed to locate her. Meanwhile, she has filed an anticipatory bail application in the Punjab and Haryana high court, which would come up for hearing on Monday. Mishra had conducted an exam in   on February 10. She along with her husband and son were booked by Chandigarh police nine months back but police have not been able to arrest her despite giving in writing in court that she is not cooperating in the investigation.
 
 Investigating officer Sarvan Kumar said, “I went to her house thrice but she is not traceable. In fact, her husband is also not at home.” Neighbours said both the wife and husband have not be spotted since last week. Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker   said, “It’s her personal matter. The whole family has been booked. They have moved the high court and it’s up to the court to decide.” The police had booked Mishra and her husband S M Mishra along with their son   for allegedly harassing their daughter-in law.
 
 
 
 
 The police had booked Mishra and her husband S M Mishra along with their son Janesh Mishra for allegedly harassing their daughter-in law. All were booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 406 (punishment for criminal
 
 breach of trust), 498 A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Sector 17 on May 18, 2017.
 
 Janesh resides in the US. The complainant is a deputy advocate general of Punjab and Haryana High court, Brij Mohan Vinayak.
 
 In his complaint, Brij Mohan Vinayak, deputy advocate general in Punjab and Haryana high court, had said his daughter was married to Janesh in 2010. After 15 days of marriage, he and her-in-laws allegedly started harassing her for dowry. Brij Mohan alleged Janesh married his daughter only for money because at the time of marriage she was getting a handsome salary. As she left her job, they started thrashing her and demanding money and costly household items. Brij Mohan said his daughter left the house of her in-laws in 2011 and started living in Mohali. He alleged her husband Janesh fled to the US. Her daughter also went there to live with him on the assurance of Shashi, but Janesh allegedly thrashed her in the US too. She had also filed a domestic violence case in the US. After one month, Brij Mohan brought her back to India.
 
 
 
