LUCKNOW: Even as   is eyeing to wrest   and Amethi parliamentary seats from the Gandhi family, the   leadership is contemplating to
  by not fielding its candidates in the twin   strongholds in coming general elections.

 
 BSP leaders close to party chief   confirmed the reports and said that the move would stop division of votes and pit BJP in a direct electoral contest with Congress. SP has not been fielding candidates in Amethi since 2004 and in Rae Bareli since 2009 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 “One cannot rule out chances of party staying away from Amethi and Rae Bareli if the alliance with SP materializes,” said a senior BSP leader. “In doing so, the party may well be able to transfer its votes to Congress,” he added. A senior BJP leader, meanwhile, admitted that 
  .
 
 BJP had last won Rae Bareli Lok Sabha seat in 1996 and 1998 elections. But later, it fared poorly against Congress, even BSP overtook it in performance.
 
 In 2009 Lok Sabha elections, BSP’s vote share in Amethi and Rae Bareli was 14% and 16% against BJP’s 4% and 6%, respectively.
 
 Earlier, in 2004, BSP had a vote share of 17% in Amethi, while SP got 19% votes.
 
 In 2014 elections, BJP fielded   from Amethi and its vote share in Amethi and Rae Bareli rose to over 34% and 21%, respectively.
 
 Sources said that opposition parties are already working on seat sharing. “BSP and SP will decide which seats to contest based on their past performance while Congress will be given 10-12 seats where it is strong. These will definitely include Amethi and Rae Bareli,” said a Congress leader.
 
 Congress has also been supporting BSP with its seven MLAs having first voted for BSP candidate in   election and then pledged support for him in council elections.
 
 Even after losing Rajya Sabha election, BSP chief Mayawati had thanked Congress, saying she was grateful to the party for having ensured that all its MLAs voted for BSP candidate even as SP, the party with which she has officially aligned, could not guarantee all votes for BSP candidate.
 
