NEW DELHI: Finance minister Arun   on Saturday blamed inadequate oversight by regulators and auditors as well as sloppy bank management for the 
  , and said if needed law would be tightened to punish fraudsters.

 
  "Unethical behaviour in lender-borrower relation has to end, the industry needs to get into the habit of doing ethical business," Jaitley said while addressing the Economic Times Global Business Summit 2018.
 
 Jaitley also stressed on the importance of regulators in preventing scams and said that they need to be more vigilant
 
 "Regulators have a very important function, regulators ultimately decide the rules of the game and they have to have a third eye which perpetually be open. Unfortunately, in the Indian system, we politicians are accountable but regulators are not," he said.
 
  
  
 Congress leader 
  to Jaitley's remark and said that he finds it hard to believe that political system or the finance ministry was not aware of the scam.
 
  "Why blame only regulator? What about political system and the fact that Finance Ministry must have known about it? What was nominee of the government doing in these banks? Issues need to be investigated, it is very glib for people to say regulators are responsible," the Congress leader said.
 
 The finance minister also argued that cases like   fraud, in which jeweller  , along with his uncle  , duped the bank of Rs 11,300 crore, affects the ease of doing business in the country.
 
 "Cases of willful default is something which is much more than a business failure and also bank frauds. If you periodically have incidents like these, the entire effort of ease of doing business goes to background and these scars on the economy take the front seat," he said.
 
 The minister said that it is a cause of worry that a scam of such a massive magnitude was orchestrated despite multiple layers of auditing system.
 
  "If a fraud is taking place in multiple branches of the banking system and no one raised the red flag, doesn't that become worrisome for a country. Similarly, top management who were indifferent, multiple layers of auditing system which chose to look other way, it creates a worrisome situation," Jaitley said.
 
 Earlier this week, the finance minister had slammed the public sector banks for not safeguarding taxpayers' money spent to keep them afloat, and warned that the government would explore all options to punish the "cheats" responsible for bank frauds.
 
 "The first important question is with regard to the lack of ethics that a section of Indian business follows. Therefore, it is incumbent on us, as the state, till the last legitimate capacity to chase these people to the last possible conclusion. To make sure that the country is not cheated," Jaitley said in his first comments since the PNB fraud came to light.
 
