BHOPAL: For someone like   who has lived off cricket his entire life, seeing his daughter become a cricketer one day was his dream. But Ambore’s daughter Pooja had different plans.

 13-year-old Pooja Ambore, who has seen her father toil away his days as groundsman at  , has set her sights on making it big in throwball. And to achieve her dreams, she has left no stone unturned. Buoyed by her performance at the Senior National Throwball Championship in  , she is now preparing for the sub-junior national throwball championship to be held in May in the state capital.
 
 “I am not complacent, but I am confident that I will make to it for the sub-junior level tournament,” said Pooja.
 
 Her bigger dream, however, is to play for the country. Living in a one-room accommodation with her entire family at the Old Campion ground, Pooja has participated in five nationals so far.
 
 “I know my family has very limited resources to offer. However, I am not disheartened. My sole objective is to keep playing for the state and then eventually for the country,” said Pooja.
 
 Pooja has two siblings. Pooja has even encouraged her younger sister Dia, who is in class V, to learn taekwondo. Her elder brother Durgesh has represented the   under-14 team in cricket.
 
 Her father   said, “I am thankful to the sports department for constructing a proper shelter for my family. Having a home is a big thing for me. Pooja is a talented girl and I wish to see her playing for the country one day.”
 
 Interestingly, Pooja’s decision to take up throwball was her own. “Being a groundsman in cricket I was hoping that she would choose this game. Three years ago, she told me that she wanted to play throwball. I have always supported my children in everything so it took no time for me to let her take up throwball,” said Mangal.
 
 For daily practise, Pooja goes to a throwball ground at E-3, Arera Colony. “No matter what season it is be it rain or sun, I do not miss practise on any day,” said a determined Pooja.
 
 She also spoke about the support from her mother. “I am very close to my mother. She has been the sole motivator for me. She has allowed me to attend practice daily as I go walking alone to the ground,” she said.
 
 Her talent is such that even Indian throwball team captain Kamal Kushwah, a Vikram awardee last year, has only praises for Pooja. “She is an immense talent. Playing in the senior team despite being a sub-junior is a not an easy task. Everyone wants her to keep playing for a long time,” said Kushwah.
 
 
