NEW DELHI: A well-known south Delhi businessman's son was kidnapped for a Rs 5-crore ransom on the evening of January 1. After a five-day top secret operation, the crime branch has managed to rescue the victim and arrest three kidnappers. A hunt is on for the fourth suspect. 

 An ex-employee of the businessman, identified as Rahul, alias Sumit,was the mastermind. After being sacked for a "frivolous reason" and with Rs 55,000 of his salary pending with his employer, he decided to kidnap his son. Rahul roped in two of his friends, Sunil Singh and Ghanshyam, for the crime. A ransom of Rs 4 crore was paid by the hostage's family but the cops have recovered Rs 3.96 crore.
 
 The high-profile drama unfolded around 7pm on January 1 when 24year-old Vicky (named changed) left from his office for his house located near Vasant Vihar. 
  
  
 He was in an i20 car. Vicky is the only son to his father and has a sister. He helps his father in his construction-related business. 
 
 The kidnappers, who were in a Swift Dzire, intercepted the i20 near Vasant Kunj and held Vicky hostage using a toy pistol. One of them drove the i20 and parked it near RK Puram while the others took the victim to a rented apartment in east Delhi. The victim was made to wear a mask, sedated and confined in a room. 
 
 The family received a call at 9.17pm from his son’s mobile number and the caller asked for Rs 5 crore ransom after informing about his son’s abduction. 
 
 The family was already worried as Vicky’s phone was coming switched off. The kidnappers asked the family to collect the i20 car from near RK Puram as a proof of abduction. 
 
 After finding the abandoned car, the family in formed the police and crime branch was roped in. The kidnappers took the cops on a wild goose chase for three days during which the ransom was brought down to Rs 4 crore. 
 
 On the intervening night of Jan 5-6, Vicky was rescued after the ransom was paid in an “controlled operation” near Mahipalpur in south Delhi. Cops then swung into action and began to pick up the suspects based on their location. Rahul was picked up from Faridabad and he led the cops to the other two. 
 
 Cops are looking for the fourth suspect who has Rs 4 lakh on him and raids are being conducted in UP and Haryana to nab him. The three accused are on police remand for interrogation. During interrogation, Rahul, who belongs to a village near Ghaziabad, disclosed that he felt humiliated due to the way he was sacked. He had willingly not accepted the dues as he wanted to settle scores with them. Rahul worked in the accounts section and had a fair idea that his employers had big money and would pay easily to ensure their son’s safety.
 
 
 
 
  was engaged in a sensational and high-profile kidnapping and ransom case on the very first day of 2018. Cops relied on advanced technical surveillance and analysis to zero down on the suspects and crack open the case.
 
 Though first-timers, the suspects had shown the shrewdness of professional kidnappers. They made around 45 ransom calls in a span of 90 hours from 30 different locations in Delhi-NCR and still managed to remain elusive to authorities.
 
 None of their calls lasted beyond a minute, as they suspected that the call and their location were being traced. Mastermind Rahul did not even speak to the victim to mask his identity.
 
 At times, cops came close to tracing them, but did not approach to ensure the safety of the victim. The breakthrough, however, came after prime suspect’s movements coincided with that of the victims, days before the operation. This was when Rahul was conducting a recce of the timings and the route taken by victim from office to home.
 
 Explaining the operation, a source said that there were nearly 120 cops involved in the entire operation. Nobody, however, knew the details of the case and was briefed on a need-to-know basis.
 
 A source identified two people travelling on that same route as the victim. One of them turned out to be an ex-employee. The sensitivity of the case could be imagined by the fact that the local police of south Delhi was not even informed about the incident and the Crime Branch was roped in from the beginning.
 
 Sources said that the family had informed their relative, a top IPS officer in Rajasthan Police, who in turn informed police commissioner  . The special cell, obvious choice to crack such cases, was not roped in as they were busy with the Republic Day security. The cell, however, provided crucial technical inputs.
 
 The operation was carried out by joint commissioner Alok Kumar and DCP (crime) Joy Tirkey. For the raids, trail and surveillance on suspects, 15-20 member teams were formed. Three ACPs were assigned to monitor developments in eight-hour shifts as kidnappers would call at random hours. For three days, negotiations were carried out to engage with the kidnappers as cops developed leads in the backdrop.
 
 However, this case, coupled with the high profile kidnapping cases reported in 2017, has again highlighted the need to have a dedicated cell which would deal only with kidnapping cases. In almost all kidnapping cases reported in the last one or two years, cops have been visibly helpless. In 2017’s Ola kidnapping case, the abductors took the police on a wild goose chase for nearly 13 days.
 
 
 
