BEBGALURU: Tapping into the city’s fitness fetish, potential candidates from constituencies in Bengaluru are hoping to harvest votes by setting up gyms in neighbourhood parks and playgrounds. The BBMP had earmarked Rs 5 lakh per ward for open and multi-gyms at playgrounds and parks. Now, sitting MLAs, who are seeking reelection, have gone on an overdrive to ensure that the benefits reach their constituents as the election date approaches.

 “The urban population is growing more and more health conscious and it is our duty as representatives to cater to their needs,” said K Gopalaiah, JD(S) MLA from Mahalakshmi Layout. Gopalaiah has created a record of sorts by setting up more than 150 gyms in his constituency which has 53 parks. The 40 gyms set up at the 10-acre Circular Park in Nandini Layout are a big hit with residents around. The gyms sport modern equipment separate for men and women.
 
 “What we like is the ambience of the gym,” said Sharath Kalkod, a retired journalist, who spends at least an hour every morning and evening at the gym. “People of all age groups use them twice a day. We get newspapers to read and free generic medicines.”
 
 Gopalaiah claimed around 1,500 people visit the gyms at Circular Park every day, while gyms elsewhere in his constituency — at Vrushabhavathi Nagar and Shankar Mutt for instance — also draw as many people.
 
 In Malleswaram constituency represented by BJP’s Dr C N Aswath Narayan, nine multi-gyms and 17 open gyms have been inaugurated in recent days. This is besides play equipment for the specially challenged in as many as 15 play grounds across the constituency.   ward has just got a new paddle court, while Malleswaram Grounds is aglow with new LED lights. The constituency also has two swanky basketball and volleyball stadiums.
 
 “People may think that we are doing this keeping an eye on the elections. But the fact is that this sports infrastructure is the result of projects taken up long ago,” said Narayan.
 
 An open-air gym exclusively for women was inaugurated recently at JP Park, Mathikere in   assembly constituency represented by   legislator Munirathna. The 85-acre park will soon get walking tracks as also a badminton court. “I hope people will recognise the good work done,” said Muniratna.
 
 Ravi Subramanya,   MLA from Basavangudi, said each of the six wards in his constituency has around four gyms and they are all overcrowded. “I am planning to set up more gyms,” he added. Pointing out that maintenance is a challenge with no funds coming from BBMP, B N Vijayakumar, BJP legislator representing Jayanagar, said: “We hope the civic agency takes note of this.” 
 
 
