After finding out Dadi's plans to steal and hide the 'shank' in   and  's room, everybody is in shock. Naira, who is taken aback by Dadi's words, tells her that she was the one who always put women before men and asks her how could she do something like this now. 

 Kartik also says that the family has always run according to Dadi's wishes but not anymore. In fact, he says that the baby will only be their's and nobody has the right to take a decision except them. He also adds that he will be very happy to have a little Naira. Dadi stops him and says that this is her greatest fear. Naira's love has blinded him.
 
 Naira says that she will go back and keep the 'shank' in her home. Everybody stops her from doing so, thinking that it will be humiliating for them but she goes, anyway.
 
  
  
 We see everybody gathered at the Singhania household. Naira enters. Kirti is also present there. She does not tell anyone about returning the 'shank' and keeps it in the room. She prays that it is her duty to maintain harmony between the two families. Naitik comes there and says that he is indeed proud to have a daughter like Naira.
 
 Elsewhere, everyone questions Surekha's involvement in the crime. Swarna informs that Naira kept the 'shank' silently and nobody got to know about it. They are relieved to hear this.
 
 Meanwhile, Kirti asks Naksh to come along for some work but he refuses. He later says that he wants Kirti to be independent.
 
 Dadi and Kartik meet again.She says that Kartik's happiness means the world to him and she would do anything for him. She also tells her the reason why it was important to have a son, who would lead the family in the future. She tells him that Naira is very stubborn and if they have a daughter, she, too, will be like Naira.
 
 Kartik is taken aback by her words. He does not like the way she treats Naira and makes a decision. He says that they are not going to have children.Naira also reaches there. Kartik says that it his wish and he doesn't regret it at all, considering the way he has suffered through childhood.Dadi leaves the room. Naira apologizes to her on Kartik's behalf.
 
 Kartik confesses he was angry but doesn't regret that he hurt Dadi.
 
