JAIPUR: Legendary Australian leg-spinner   was on Tuesday named the mentor of   for the 2018   ( ) which will see the western outfit make a comeback after a two-year ban. 

 The 48-year-old, who was Rajasthan's captain-cum-coach during their sensational title win in 2008 inaugural edition, confessed that the Jaipur franchise had always been close to his heart. 
 
 "I am very happy and excited to be back with the Rajasthan Royals who I believe hold a very special place in my cricketing journey. I am overwhelmed by the love and affection showered on me by the franchise and fans of Rajasthan Royals," Warne said. "We have a strong, young and energetic bunch of boys and I am looking forward to work with them."
 
  Stokes to join England squad in NZ, says ECB: Ben Stokes will join the England squad in New Zealand after he pleaded not guilty to a charge of affray in court on Tuesday, the England and Wales Cricket Board said. "Having entered his plea at Bristol Magistrates' Court today, Ben Stokes will now travel to New Zealand to join the England squad," said an ECB spokesman. "He departs tomorrow, Wednesday 14 February, and will arrive on Friday 16 February, ready to train with England team-mates in Hamilton." 
 
  Shakib ruled out of first T20I vs Lanka: Bangladesh captain Shakib Al Hasan has been ruled out of Thursday's first T20 International against Sri Lanka after he failed to recover from a finger injury. The star allrounder also missed the recent Test series against Sri Lanka after sustaining the injury during the ODI tri-series final against the same opponents in January. Left-arm spinner Nazmul Hossain has been asked to join the squad as a replacement for Shakib. But the Bangladesh Cricket Board is yet to name a captain. Shakib replaced Mashrafe Mortaza as Bangladesh's T20I skipper in the series against South Africa in October. 
 
  Oz pacer Bird out of SA tour, Sayers called up: Paceman Jackson Bird was on Tuesday ruled out of Australia's Test squad for South Africa with a hamstring injury and replaced by fellow speedster Chadd Sayers. Bird pulled a hamstring while bowling in a domestic match in Brisbane last weekend and is expected to be sidelined for up to three weeks, opening the door for the uncapped Sayers. Sayers joins fellow quicks Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazelwood, Pat Cummins and Jhye Richardson for the four-Test South Africa series which kicks off on March 1. 
 
  Australia squad: Steve Smith (captain), David Warner, Cameron Bancroft, Pat Cummins, Peter Handscomb, Josh Hazlewood, Jon Holland, Usman Khawaja, Nathan Lyon, Mitchell Marsh, Shaun Marsh, Tim Paine, Jhye Richardson, Chadd Sayers, Mitchell Starc. 
 
  Indian cagers bag silver at Asian Games test event: The Indian men's team bagged the silver medal at the Asian Games 5x5 basketball test event in Jakarta after losing 68-78 to Indonesia in the final on Tuesday. The hosts thus avenged their loss to India in the group league stage of the invitational meet. 
 
 
