CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has issued chargesheet to Indian Forest Service ( ) officer   for permitting illegal felling of trees last year in Mohali district.

 The chargesheet has been issued in a case where the IFS officer had on November 14 last year written to the Mohali divisional forest commissioner to permit felling of trees in case of ‘Raja’ Shivdev Inder Singh in Jayanti Majri village of Mohali district on his private land despite the   ( ) blanket ban. 
 
 The IFS officer has written that the NGT ban was only applicable in case of government land.
 
 When contacted, Harsh said he had already apologised before the NGT for issuing letter without the land demarcation and the tribunal had closed the issue. He added that he had not yet received the chargesheet. 
 
 Elaborating about the case, the IFS officer said, “The NGT had asked me why I had not carried out the land demarcation first in that case. Though it is district forest officer’s responsibility, but I had apologized for that.” He alleged the chargesheet was being issued to him because the department officers want to halt his promotion to the rank of principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), which has to be made from the back date.
 
 Hearing a petition filed by Sangrur-based environmentalist Dr Amandeep Aggarwal, the NGT on November 24 last year had recorded in its order, “Harsh Kumar Sharma, IFS, chief conservator of forests (hills) Punjab is present. He tenders unconditional and unqualified apology and submits that the letter was issued under some misconception.”
 
 The order further reads, “Learned counsel appearing for the state of Punjab submits that the competent authority has already withdrawn the letter dated November 14, 2017, issued by the said officer. In fact they have further issued directions that no officer should issue such letters and all letters should be referred to the competent authority...” 
 
 “In view of the above circumstances, we do not consider it necessary to take further action against the officer. We accept his apology and withdraw notice issued to him.”
 
 Asked about the ‘misconception’, the IFS officer said, “The misconception was that the intra-demarcation of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) and the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) had not been carried out.”
 
 
