CHANDIGARH: As many as 525 students were awarded prizes for excelling in the field of academics and co-curricular activities during the 36th annual prize giving function of Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, here on Monday. As many as 24 students were honoured with roll of honour for academics and 12 students were awarded college colour in academics, 26 in co-curricular activities and 40 for sports. 

 As many as 311 students were awarded academic prizes for university positions and house examination and 89 students were awarded mementoes for being office bearers, student editors, best blood donor, women cell, sports and co-curricular activities.   was awarded to   of BCom (I), Talwinder Kaur of MA (II) and Sakshi of BSc (III). Priya Gupta of BA (III) and   of MSc microbial biotechnology (II) were awarded best graduate of the year award and best postgraduate of the year award, respectively. Laxmi Devi memorial cash prize of Rs 2,100 was awarded to Priya Gupta of BA (III). Priya Gupta and Jyoti Kaushal also got Pranshu-Anmol Garg memorial award of Rs 11,000 each.   cash prize was awarded to 19 students, who excelled in the field of academics. 
 
 On the occasion, SCOOP (newsletter of functional English department) and book authored by Dr Purnendu Ranjan was also released by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, who was the chief guest. He congratulated the college, lauded the achievements of the students and appreciated the efforts of the faculty and the principal. Badnore highlighted the progress towards women empowerment and affirmed that gradually gender differences would get blurred.
 
 Principal Prof   highlighted the achievements of the college for the current session, which included 66 positions in university exams, 38 prizes, including 10 first prizes, 9 second prizes, and 19 third prizes, in the PU zonal outh festival and various accolades in the sports arena. She also stated that the college had received a grant of Rs 2 crore under infrastructure head from the HRD ministry. She also congratulated the faculty and students as the college has been placed amongst the top 10% colleges of the country in the National Institution Ranking FrameWork-2018. The college has been recently been selected under   to involve higher education institutions in the sustained development of village clusters.
 
 
