KOLHAPUR: All major districts in   witnessed tense situation on Tuesday after people took to streets to protest against the violence reported at Bhima-Koregaon near Pune that led to the death of a youth.

  and demonstrations were organised at various places. As part of the protest, protesters in Kolhapur district have decided to observe a one-day bandh on Wednesday.
 
 An incident of stone-pelting on MSRTC bus at Korochi in Hatkanangle taluka was reported along with burning of tyres at Bindu Chowk and other parts of the district.
 
 People organised a motorcycle rally in textile town of Ichalkaranji and presented a memorandum of their demands to sub-divisional officer Sameer Shingate. Youths organised rallies in Hatkanangle, Kagal, Kabnoor, Herwad, Hupari and Pattankodoli villages of Kolhapur district.
 
 In Kolhapur city, major market areas nearby Shivaji road and Bhausingji road were shut down on Tuesday. Protestors had gathered at Bindu Chowk area on Tuesday morning to protest against the incident. The agitators organised a rally from Bindu Chowk to Shivaji statue and further reached the Town hall area.
 
  was observed for some time on major chowks, including Tararani, Bindu and   chowks. Police claim that they managed to convince demonstrators to refrain from disrupting traffic and were disbursed after observing a token demonstration.
 
 Prashant Amrutkar, deputy superintendent of police (Kolhapur city), said, “Protesters gathered at Bindu Chowk later moved to the Town Hall via Shivaji road and Bhausingji road. They raised slogan and left for home after gathering peacefully near Town hall. No untoward incident was reported.”
 
 In   district, state transport bus service from Miraj was disrupted for some time after five Maharashtra   (MSRTC) buses were targeted by protestors. According to an MSRTC official, buses were damaged causing loss of Rs 55,000, but bus services resumed after some time.
 
 In Sangli, the protesters organised rallies on major roads as shops and major commercial centres were also shut down in the city. Villagers from Deshing in Sangli district observed bandh on Tuesday.
 
 Rallies were also organised in Satara and Karad district. In  , one person was injured after the protestors pelted stones on a MSRTC bus at   area. 
 
 
