CHENNAI: A team of officials from the Public Works Department ( ) left for   to explore the possibility of importing   from the northeastern state to meet the requirements of sand-starved  . The visit follows Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s offer to supply sand for construction purposes to the state during his recent visit to the city.

 PWD sources said the team of three officials left for Assam on Wednesday. “The purpose of the visit is to see the viability of sourcing sand from the northeastern state after that state’s chief minister had said that Assam was ready to provide sand for us. The team would be visiting the Brahmaputra river and a few other places in Assam,” the official said. Asked whether the Tamil Nadu government has taken any decision to source sand from Assam, official sources said the visit was meant only to look at the resources available in the state. “Sourcing sand from other states involves a lengthy process with several issues that need consideration before taking a decision,” the official added. 
 
 Interestingly, the development also comes in the backdrop of the state government, which mandated that sale of sand brought from other states or Union Territories for the purpose of constructions can be done only through the PWD. It further said that sand from other states and imported from overseas should be sold through the PWD. In November last year, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court had ordered closure of all sand quarries in the state within the next six months, while saying that no new sand quarries should come up in Tamil Nadu.
 
 The Chennai chapter of the Confederation of   Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) has said sand from Assam can be transported to West Bengal and shipped to Chennai through sea. CREDAI Chennai president Suresh Krishn said that the developers body had planned to ferry sand from Odisha to overcome the prevailing acute shortage. Welcoming the move to explore Assam for sourcing sand, he said, “The Tamil Nadu government should take some steps to ensure that sand is available for the construction sector.”
 
 
