NEW DELHI: Bought an antacid or multivitamin lately which did not seem to have any effect? It might have been   medicine manufactured locally by an inter-state syndicate which, apart from producing the  , was also printing their labels, strips and packaging them. Raids by the crime branch have led to the seizure of more than 90,000 capsules and tablets of   and multivitamins commonly consumed in every household. Cops are trying to find where the suspects procured the “salt” — a licensed item to produce the fake  .

  
 Joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar said that a crime branch team led by ACP Jasbir Malik and inspector Neeraj Chaudhary got information on Friday that one Ashok Kumar (40) and his associate, Bijender Singh (55), would come to the Ajmeri Gate railway station with a consignment of fake medicines to deliver it to someone. “A team was formed to track them down and they were caught with four cartons of drugs and a pickup van while they were about to drop the cartons outside the parcel yard,” Kumar said.
 
 The gang used to manually fill up capsules with leftover salts from pharma units based in Rishikesh and Badri. Police say that the samples of the salts have been sent for a forensic analysis. A few employees of Ashok have also been detained for questioning.
 
 The cops had also roped in a team from drug control unit that checked the parcels and found close to 40,000 capsules of Pan D. It was revealed that the medicines were being produced at a factory in outer Delhi’s Kirari area.
 
 A raid was conducted at the factory where cops found batching and stripping machines that were used to pack the medicines in foil which were then put in cartons and supplied through medical representatives to shops across the city.
 
 “We have registered a case of cheating, impersonation and under sections of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and are trying to trace the suppliers,” said Rajesh Deo, DCP, crime. Ashok and Bijender claimed that they had not met their suppliers and provided the cops with their mobile numbers, which are being tracked down. The employees of a medical representative firm are also under the scanner.
 
 Kumar claimed that he had set up the factory in his wife’s name two years ago. Bijender revealed that he used to work as a mechanic at a firm that used to produce machines that manufacture drugs. He had worked in different factories in Haryana and Delhi-NCR for 20 years. During this, he had come in contact with Ashok Kumar. They decided to combine their resources to produce   medicines.
 
 Police said the production unit operated from one room in the factory. Kumar and Singh used to ferry the cartons to the suppliers themselves in order to avoid suspicion. 
 
 The Delhi government is also checking samples of the spurious drugs. “As such, the drugs found in the premises are of doubtful quality, hence samples of the drugs were collected for test/analysis to ascertain the quality of drugs. Specimen samples were also collected to verify genuineness of the drugs from original manufacturing firms,” said Sandeep Kumar Sharma, drugs inspector, Delhi government.
 
 Kumar and Singh had contacted small-time medical representatives to arrange for sellers who would mix the spurious medicines along with the original ones, sometimes at lower prices to attract customers. Efforts are being made to track the sellers as well.
 
 They also revealed that they had earlier sent some batches of medicines to Bihar and Bengal for distribution at hospitals in rural areas. State police have been informed about this as well.
 
 
