It is not so often you see   happening in the cities these days. The number of artistes who perform Therukoothu have come down drastically in the last 20-30 years. It is at this juncture, Akku, a Chennai based   group along with Coimbatore’s Udalveli organised a play (Adavu) on Therukoothu recently. The play was about a bunch of Therukoothu artistes performing the popular ‘Panjali Sabatham’ from the   and what kind of treatement they get from the organisers and people. CT caught up with Vetri MV (founder of Akku, who directed the play) for a chat.

 Adavu is the first from Akku, starts off Vetri “After forming the group, the first thing that came into our mind was Therukoothu, because it is the traditional art of Tamil Nadu. We wanted to dedicate our first play to those artistes.” He says, adding, “If you look at the current scenario, Therukoothu artistes are struggling without proper income. It is not like other professions, where people switch jobs. Here, people are so passionate about the art and they don’t want to leave it. That is the main reason I directed this play.”
 
 Vetri says all these songs in the play were originally written by Kalavai Krishnaswami years ago. “However, we learned these songs from Purisai Sambandha Kannappa Thambiran. He gave us the costumes and the whole setup. We have just modified it and added some dialogues to make the play relevant now,” he says.
 
 Therukoothu is usually performed from 10pm to 6am. But, Vetri says that he is not sure how many are aware of that such an art form existed. “So, we wanted to show the current generation how Therukoothu looks like. We restricted the duration of the play to 50 minutes since they won’t have the patience to sit through whole night and watch it. Out of 250 people who watched the play, at least 10 would be interested about the concept and they would pass on the information to others. We want to try and revive the art,” he adds.
 
 Ask him the reason behind including ‘Panjali Sabatham’ in the play, he says, “We wanted to create some interest in people. It is one of the most popular and engaging chapters in Mahabarata. We could add humour and more drama to the narrative and even the children who came to watch the play have enjoyed it.”
 
 Vetri adds that there is one more reason why he decided to choose the plot. “It showcases how the society has been ill-treating women. Women were harassed in the past and it still continues. We just wanted to show how bad the society has been to women.”
 
 Talking about cinema, he says that people should give equal importance to   and traditional art forms. “The importance we give to theatre and Therukoothu is extremely less compared to cinema. If we think digitalisation is the reason behind that, it can’t be accepted. Because, even in Bengaluru and Kerala things are digitalised, but they still give equal importance to theatre and cinema. But, it is not the case in Tamil Nadu. I still don’t know the reason behind it. The format of Therukoothu can only be revived if it is taken up by students and art clubs in every city. It has to be included in schools and colleges, and only then the next generation will be involved in reviving the format.”
 
 However, Vetri is extremely happy about the response he got for the play. He says that the response from the audience was overwhelming and it gave a big boost to the actors.
 
 
