DHARAMSHALA: Noted personalities from food industry including, food critics, chefs, culinary historians have landed in   to expose the food culture of Himalayan region. They have also worked in north east and other parts of the country.

 Dr Ashish Chopra culinary historian and writer of "Travel cuisines of India" told TOI that during his tenure as advisor to governments of north eastern states of the country he did research on the food habits of the people from Himalayan region.
 
 “I did a research for more than 30 years, the Himalayan food has a lot of variety and a great history behind them. But the only thing is that this culture lack proper exposure” he said adding that he had also visited part of China and Tibet for his work.
 
 Izzat Hussain, a renowned chef known for making herbal food without water told that regional cuisines at touristic places in this region are overshadowed, this needs to be changed.
 
 “There are many herbs too which are found in Himachal and Kashmir which were not known to local people and now are on verge of extinction. One is stone flower, it boosts immune system but people don’t know how to use it in food” he added.
 
 Surprisingly, these food personalities have joined a village level entrepreneur who is running a 'Firangi  ' in Raja Ka Bagh village of Nurpur area of Kangra district.
 
  (33) owner of this Dhabha told this correspondent that he was running a restaurant in Mumbai after completing his studies in   but then he shifted to his native place.
 
 “I have invited these personalities as I wanted to join their mission for food. They too agreed to my proposal, now we are making people aware of this and teaching them too” he said adding that research would be done on local food of Himachal and through these personalities a TV show was also planned so that people across the globe can get information about the food and the history of this region.
 
 This activity would go on for five days starting from April 6, 2018. Rakesh Mathur (former vice-president of ITC group), known food critic and media personality Vinod Dua and many other were supposed to participate in this event, said Mahajan.
 
