NEW DELHI: Unhappy that professor  , whom they had accused of   them, had been given bail by a   on Tuesday, five of the eight complainants said on Wednesday that the   professor’s argument in court that he was being targeted for insisting on compulsory attendance was baseless.

 Addressing the media with their face obscured by scarves, the women claimed not only to have the required attendance but also contradicted Johri’s contention that the complainants were left-wing activists and pointed out that six of them were registered   members. They released documents from the   laboratory signed by Johri that showed the students had been attending classes regularly.
 
 “Two of the complainants are former students. Why would they be concerned about attendance?” asked one of the complainants. “The students have genuinely come out to protest against sexual harassment.” Saying that they had “put our academic career and personal and professional lives at stake” in filing the charges, the complainants asserted that if they hadn’t spoken up, others would have had similarly demeaning experiences.
 
 The complainants also alleged that while they were being threatened to retract their accusations, the   administration had not approached them or taken action against Johri. They claimed to have approached the dean of the school on the matter, but hadn’t received support. “SLS has a hierarchical structure where the supervisor is very powerful. He can destroy our careers if he wants to. After one of us complained to the dean, Johri became vindictive, and we were frightened to come out in the open with our grievances.”
 
 Meanwhile, the JNU administration blamed the students for “preventing other students, teachers and staff from entering School of Social Sciences, School of International Studies, School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies because of which holding of admission-related viva voce, MPhil/ PhD viva voce, classes and mid-semester examinations are facing enormous difficulties”. 
 
 
