CHANDIGARH: Despite Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s directions to review the appointment of Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer Raman Kumar Kochhar for not having a graduation degree, the concerned authorities have been sitting on the case for the last around two months.

 
 The TOI has accessed a file note written on March 3 that reads, “Based on the given facts, the chief minister has expressed that appointment of Raman Kumar Kochhar to PCS has been given by going away from the rules which should be reviewed.” But no action has been taken till date.
 
 Kochhar is posted as assistant commissioner (general) in Gurdaspur. He was working as senior assistant in then food and civil supplies minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s ministerial staff when he was appointed as PCS officer in September 2016 at the fag end of the SAD-BJP rule.
 
 A senior officer dealing with the case told the TOI that the matter was being brushed under the carpet because of the political pressure being put by one of the cabinet ministers in Amarinder’s own government.
 
 In its April 29 edition, TOI had also reported that Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had written to Punjab chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh to appoint former Akali minister Kairon’s close aide, Kochhar as his officer on special duty ( ).
 
 A senior officer said on Tuesday that the file has been sent to the chief secretary clearing Kochhar cannot be appointed as OSD to the minister since rules do not permit such an appointment. Punjab government’s March 3 file note further reveals, before the chief minister ordered review of Kochhar’s appointment, he went through the adverse advice tendered by legal remembrancer-cum-secretary law   on July 8, 2016, and again on December 12, 2016, on the basis of UGC’s comments sent on October 3, 2016.
 
 As per the file note, Puri had advised on December 12, 2016, “This department has already tendered opinion vide its advice dated July 8, 2016, to the fact that Raman Kumar Kochhar cannot be considered for appointment to the post of PCS (executive branch) as he is not having a basic degree of graduation. Now, the University Grants Commission ( ) has made it more clear (on October 3) the fact that before getting the master degree, the basic degree of graduation should be obtained. Even on reconsideration, the advice tendered by this department vide dated July 8, 2016 still holds good.”
 
 Interestingly, official records reveal then chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal issued Kochhar’s first posting order as assistant commissioner (general) at Tarn Taran on November 8, 2016, “by curtailing his training”.
 
 In its October 2 edition last year, TOI had reported as to how the previous SAD-BJP government and Punjab Public Service Commission ( ) had selected Kochhar despite not having a graduation degree. Kochhar’s selection is under challenge before the Punjab and Haryana high court by Punjab government’s employee Promila Sharma.
 
 The March 3 file note also discloses that advocate general Atul Nanda had on July 7 last year conveyed his decision, “The state of Punjab should have the matter which is presently pending in the court disposed of with a statement that the state would have a fresh look at the matter and then act in accordance with law.”
 
