Nagpur: In the biggest ever blow to Naxalites in Maharashtra, security forces gunned down at least 16 of their cadres on Sunday morning. The encounter took place in Rela-Kasnasur forest close to Tadgaon village, near Maharashtra-Chhattishgarh border, in   tehsil of Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra, about 350 km from Nagpur. 

 It was a joint operation of C-60 commandos of Gadchiroli police and jawans of  .
 
 The firing started at 10 am about 60-km from Aheri police headquarters and continued for around one-and-half hours. Though Naxalite casualties have officially been stated as 16, the number could go as high as 25, sources said. Searches were yet to be called off following the biggest success of forces in Maharashtra against the rebel movement.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who holds the home portfolio too, has briefed Union home minister   on the encounter. 
 
 Two divisional committee members Shrikant Rawthu (51), alias Shrinu, and Dolesh Atram, alias Sainath (36), are learnt to be among the cadres killed. 
 
 Shrinu had 82 offences against him in his 15 years of involvement in the movement. Sainath, who had been controlling the movement in south Gadchiroli, had 75 offences against him in his 14-year stint with the outfit. This is the third top cadre of divisional committee member rank eliminated by the forces, after Sunil Kulmethe of Sironcha dalam who was gunned down earlier this month. Shrinu and Sainath were identified by the surrendered cadres who were taken along with the squads for their assistance. 
 
 The Maoist cadres, who had been moving around in the locality in different formations and holding meetings at tribal hamlets, were gathered for a meeting possibly to be participated by Perimili dalam, a section of Company 10, Platoon 14 and Aheri dalam, when the forces zeroed in on them, sources said.
 
 It is learnt the Maoists cadres, least expecting the intrusion of the security forces in deep forest, were caught off guard when firing began from all sides. The two C-60 squads under commander Vasudev Madavi and Madhukar Netam, supported by  , are learnt to have surrounded the rebels taking vantage positions that did not allow guerrillas to escape. 
 
 As they realized the strength of rebels, forces called for more reinforcements using satellite phones. After firing from rebels’ side ceased, the forces went in and began pulling out bodies, weapons and other materials. The bodies were being transported to Gadchiroli district headquarters for post-mortem late in the evening. 
 
 They said substantial arms including AK rifles, ammunition, communication gadgets, electronic material, wires, explosives, pen drives, laptops and Maoist literature have been recovered from the site. Many rucksacks have also been found from the spot. 
 
 Sources claimed many injured cadres may have dragged themselves to nearby tribal hamlets in the adjoining areas and the forces were trying to trace them. 
 
 DIG, Naxal range, Ankush Shinde said action was based on a specific intelligence input. The operation was launched from Pranhita headquarters at Aheri. 
 
 “We are in the process of calculating the exact losses inflicted upon the Maoists as the scale of the operation and outcome are big. Many simultaneous searches are underway,” he said. 
 
 Police sources claimed the forces were already engaged in collecting inputs regarding the cadres as there was an encounter at Mokela, a few kilometers from this place last week, from where the rebels had fled leaving behind two dozens rucksacks. The security forces had already started concentrating on inputs from this region. 
 
 
