BATHINDA: Over 6,000 applicants are vying for just nine posts of   and process servers in the Bathinda district courts. Interviews to choose final candidates for these Class IV posts started on Monday and will continue for three more days.

 The chosen candidates will get only basic salary for three years in the pay scale of Rs 4,900-10,680 along with grade pay of Rs 1,650 for process servers and Rs 1,300 per month for peons.
 
 Required   for process servers is   and it is Class VII for peons, but graduates, including engineers, and post-graduates have applied for these low-paid posts.
 
 Some 6,028 applications were received for nine available posts till March 12, the last date to register for the two posts. Out of these, there were 3,114 applicants for five peon posts and 2,914 for four posts for process servers. Over 100 women too appeared for the interview on the first day.
 
 “Anticipating a large number of applications, the court authorities staggered the interview process over four days. On the first day, candidates with names starting with alphabets A to G were called for the interview. Nine counters were set up to provide roll numbers to 1,817 candidates who were interviewed on the first day,” a court official told TOI.
 
 Anand Kumar, a B Tech in computer science from Patiala, has applied for the post of process server. “I have worked for few months in a private company, but now I am applying for a Class IV job. I had got an offer during the job fair organised by the state government, but at Rs 7,000 per month, it was too less.”
 
 Arjun Kumar, from Patiala who has graduated in humanities and has a diploma in computer applications, said, “I am working in a tele-calling company and want to get any secure job to support my family.”
 
 Another aspirant, Deepak, from Sirsa in Haryana, who has a diploma in mechanical engineering, said any job was acceptable to him — be that of a peon.
 
 Bhagyashri, from Maur Mandi town of Bathinda who is a humanities graduate and is pursuing a master’s degree in Hindi through distance education, said she was also working as a tele-calling executive at Bathinda. “I am ready to do any job as I have to support my family. No job is lower in status when you are in need,” she added.
 
 A homemaker and a graduate, Jagriti, from Barnala works at a private college and was among the applicants. She said she wanted a stable job for a secure life, so she had applied for this government job.
 
 Commenting on the huge number of applicants for these nine posts,   Sudeep Singh said: “Various political parties woo youngsters for electoral gains and make claims of eradicating unemployment. However, the reality belies such claims when such a large number of unemployed youths come forward for such low-paid posts. It clearly showcases the level of unemployment in Punjab as even highly-qualified youths are not hesitating to apply for a Class IV job.”
 
 The state government needs to take a look at the joblessness levels and do something to provide employment avenues, he added.
 
 
