HYDERABAD: The registration process for Degree Online Services   (DOST) will begin from May 10, according to a notification issued by the   on Tuesday.

 Addressing a media conference on Tuesday, the higher education department authorities declared various reforms that have been introduced in degree admissions for the academic year 2018-19. To curb simultaneous blocking of seats by students, the   has linked DOST and admission process for engineering, agriculture and medical seats.
 
  
 “Last year, admission process was linked to biometric system. For the ensuing academic year, we have linked Aadhaar card details of students with the admission process. Through Aadhaar number, if a student confirms a seat in an engineering course then the seat blocked by him/her in DOST will automatically be cancelled,” said  , commissioner of Telangana collegiate education department.
 
 However, there are19 private degree colleges with an intake of about 9,000 seats that have moved court against DOST.
 
 “Colleges opposing DOST are those who are violating fee norms set by the affiliating university. We found that they have been using back-door methods to charge fees as per their whims and fancies. Students applying through DOST will have 100 per cent transparency on the fees charged by various colleges,” said Mittal.
 
 Private degree colleges, especially those falling under the jurisdiction of Osmania University, have been demanding the Telangana government to enhance the tuition fee structure for the past few years. Following representations submitted, by various colleges, the TSCHE has constituted a committee to examine the same. “We have constituted a committee to examine whether it is possible to have a uniform fee structure for all degree courses across all state universities. The proposal is still under deliberation and may take some time to be implemented,” said  , TSCHE chairman.
 
 Others demands including spot admissions and management quota for degree courses are also under deliberation.
 
 
