PUNE: The Bombay high court has suspended a Pune trial court’s sentence of   and   to 45-year-old divorcee  , who was tried for murdering   lawyer   on October 13, 2011, in the city. 

 The sentence of December 15, 2015, will remain suspended pending hearing and final disposal of a criminal appeal filed by Anushree, the high court said. .
 
 “Prima facie, the infirmities in evidence highlighted by the counsel for applicant (Anushree) could not be explained by the prosecution,” the bench of Justice S C Dharmadhikari and Justice Prakash D Naik held on April 27. 
 
 “We are conscious of the fact that we are dealing with the application of bail and the appeal challenging the judgment and order of conviction is to be heard finally. However, in the light of the observations (regarding infirmities) stated herein above and considering that the applicant is in custody since last six-and-a-half-years, she can be granted bail on certain terms and conditions,” the bench said.
 
 The bench directed Anushree not to leave India without its prior permission and told her to deposit her passport with the court. Her lawyer, Vaibhav Jathar, said, “We will furnish a certified copy of the HC’s order to the sessions court here on Thursday for completing the bail formalities.”
 
 The crime was committed after Anushree’s live-in relationship with Juhi’s fiancee Nimesh Sinha, an employee of a software company, soured. Anushree (then aged 39 yrs) was pressurizing Nimesh for marriage but, his family had objected to the same as she was 12 years older to him. 
 
 Nimesh’s marriage was fixed with Juhi. On October 12, 2011, Juhi came to Pune from Delhi after his mother told her that Anushree was at his rented flat at New Market Plaza in Wanowrie.
 
 Throughout the intervening night, the three were involved in a heated argument before going to sleep around 6am on October 13, 2011. Between 9am and 9.30am, while Nimesh and Juhi were sleeping on a bed, Anushree poured an inflammable liquid on them and set them on fire. 
 
 Juhi succumbed to 85% burns in a private hospital on October 22, 2011, while Nimesh sustained 18% burns. While in hospital, Juhi had recorded two dying declarations. The prosecution’s case primarily rests on Nimesh’s evidence and the two dying declarations.
 
 The bench observed, considering that Anushree was standing near the legs of Nimesh and Juhi when the incident took place, there was doubt as to how Nimesh sustained burn injuries only to his hands while the deceased sustained 75% to 85% burns. The first dying declaration was recorded around 10.15pm on October 13, 2011, and the FIR too was recorded at that point of time. “There was a long gap in setting the law into motion and showing involvement of the applicant in the crime,” the high court said.
 
 “The scribe of the first dying declaration is not examined. It is not clear as to who recorded the said dying declaration. As far as second dying declaration is concerned, the defence pointed out several infirmities and submitted that the same is not genuine which could not be explained by the prosecution,” the high court said. 
 
 The prosecution did not bring on record medical papers to prove that Juhi was in a conscious, well oriented condition to give a statement in such a great detail to the naib tehsildar and neither the said witness had stated in her evidence that she had ascertained that Juhi was conscious, well-oriented and able to give statement, the high court said.
 
 “There is distinction between kerosene and petrol. The prosecution appears to be doubtful as to what was being used by accused to allegedly set the victims on fire. The witnesses have referred to kerosene/petrol being used for commission of alleged crime,” the high court said, adding that all these circumstances could not explained by the prosecution.
 
 
