BHOPAL: Nine days, five attempts and wastage of oil worth over Rs 2 crore later, officials of the   Power Generation Company Limited have failed to light up a 500 MW thermal power unit of   Thermal   in Umaria district. The unit was shut due to some technical snag on December 22. 

 While the officials were busy with failed but costly attempts to light up the 500 MW unit of the thermal power station, adding more to the troubles another 210 MW unit tripped off on Tuesday. 
 
 Of the 1,340 MW of installed capacity, power station was producing an average of 1,000 MW of power prior to December 22, when its 500 MW unit tripped. The average production of the power station since then has been around 600 MW.
 
 Officials of GENCO first lighted up the unit on December 24, but it tripped. The unit was again lighted up on December 25, but tripped again two days later. They again lighted it up, but in vain. For the fourth time, the unit was lighted up on December 29, but it also went in vain. Again after two days, officials tried to start the unit on December 31, but it failed to start, sources said.
 
 In every attempt to light up a 500 MW thermal power unit, a total of around 1 lakh litres of heavy furnace oil (HRO) and around 20,000 litres of another oil is required. While the former costs around Rs 31 per litre the latter costs around Rs 41 per litre. Thus in all five attempts to light up the plant, cumulatively around 5 lakh HRO and close to 1 lakh litres of other oil was used. In monetary terms, it translates to close to Rs 2 crore, said sources. 
 
 When contacted, Sanjay Gandhi Thermal Power Station superintending engineer V K Kailasia said, “We have called experts from BHEL, earlier a team from Nagpur had arrived, now a team of   is coming from Haridwar. It will reach Umaria district on Tuesday. We are hopeful of starting up the unit. There is some technical problem in governing system.” 
 
 On consumption of oil, Kailasia said, “We have to make attempts and this problem is also with other power stations.” 
 
 Sources, however, said if experts would have been called after the first failed attempt things could have been better.
 
