PUDUCHERRY: After several days of bitter and acrimonious exchanges,   lieutenant governor   and chief minister   came together on the same platform to take part in government functions on Thursday night and Friday morning. Though they did not publicly interact at the Thursday event,   invited   to translate her speech at a function on Friday morning. Without hesitation, the chief minister obliged and translated her address by standing beside her amid thunderous applause from the audience.

 Bedi initially invited education minister R   to translate her address. Kamalakannan said he would try his best in translating her address. Bedi’s attention immediately fell on Narayanasamy, and she sought his help in translating her address while complimenting the chief minister’s multilingual skills. Narayanasamy readily accepted her request and stood behind her with a microphone.
 
 The two exchanged pleasantries and Bedi cracked a joke by warning Narayanasamy that he should translate only what she spoke. Narayanasamy said he could not give such an assurance and burst into laughter.
 
 Bedi said she wanted to be friendly with him for the next 10 minutes. Narayanasamy went a step ahead and declared that he was for an eternal friendship. Bedi replied that she too wished the same and began her address.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Bedi insisted on presenting cash awards for winners of contests on Kambaramayanam to be held as a part of the festival, ‘Kamban Vizha’, held every year. She said financial assistance for the award will be extended equally from the relief funds of the chief minister and lieutenant governor. Narayanasamy immediately accepted the proposal.
 
 The two leaders, despite their difference of opinion, maintained dignity and decorum and interacted in a civilised manner. Unlike  , a healthy political culture prevails in Puducherry. Politicians irrespective of party lines set aside their political ideologies and maintain decorum and decency while interacting in public places. Narayanasamy on Wednesday had demanded that Bedi ‘resign on moral ground’ as the “Union government had lost faith in her and overruled her decisions while upholding the cabinet’s decision.” He released a letter from the Union home ministry which upheld the cabinet’s decision for extension of tenures of the chairpersons of various boards and corporations. Bedi had hit out at Narayanasamy asking him to understand that “one resigns from a job, not a mission.”
 
 Earlier, Narayanasamy said he had directed the territorial officials not to keep files in their possession for more than three days. Bedi released letters exchanged between Narayanasamy and her and accused him and his cabinet colleagues of keeping files for long thereby delaying postings and disciplinary issues among other vital administrative affairs in the Union territory.
 
 Bedi said when she had sought him to expedite the process (of clearing files expeditiously), he had shot back claiming that there was “no time limit” for him as he is “people’s representative and is accountable only to the people.”
 
 “I think this rule (not to keep files for more than three days) must be practised by the CM first on himself and some of his colleagues, who keep certain files for long with them thereby delaying postings, and disciplinary issues and service matters. He also says there is no time limit, which applies to him. As a people’s representative he is accountable only to the people,” Bedi said.
 
 
