Jamshedpur:  , a 15-year-old   talent of the Steel City, has won the silver medal in the   Under-16 Open Standard Category held at Chiang Mai in  . 

 On the concluding day of the six-day tourney on Monday, Vatsal ended his journey in the Asian meet by losing to Piyumantha M Sasith Nipun from Sri Lanka in a tie-breaker. Vatsal’s fellow Indian player Sankalp Gupta clinched bronze medal.
 
 General secretary of All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA), Neeraj Kumar Mishra, said, “Vatsal had the chance to strike gold in the match but perhaps he was playing under pressure and eventually broke down in the tie-breaker.” Mishra has mentored Vatsal since his formative years at the Chess Academy in JRD Tata   Complex here.
 
 By clinching the silver medal Vatsal obtained the Fide Master title. His contribution has also helped the Indian team win gold in the Blitz and Rapid categories in the tournament that witnessed participation from 26 countries. 
 
 “Interestingly, Vatsal was a special entry to the tourney and was not part of the official delegation of the Indian team,” Mishra said. 
 
 Vatsal, a former student of Carmel Junior College in Sonari, has temporarily shifted to Chennai in 2017 to pursue his sporting career under the guidance of chess grandmaster R B Ramesh. Vatsal is presently studying at Velammal Vidyalaya there. 
 
 Son of a businessman father Anil Singhania and mother Asha, the gifted board game player, Vatsal had won the Commonwealth Chess Championship in July last year.
 
 “We were expecting him to win the gold but he missed it in the tie-breaker,” said Anil Singhania. 
 
 Among other achievements to his kitty, Vatsal finished third in the Aeroflot Open International Tourney held in Moscow in February 2017 besides U-15, U-17 and U-19 national titles to his credit. 
 
 “He is a born chess player whose consistency and dedication to the sport is tremendous,” secretary of AJCA, Pritam Singh said, adding that Vatsal has been regular to the academy since 2007. 
 
 Vatsal will return to India on April 22, 2018 following a overseas tourney.
 
 
