LUCKNOW: The stretch from   crossing to Ambedkar crossing in   seems to be awaiting a major mishap. 

 
 In a risky trend, commuters said that people coming from   take a wrong left turn towards Vijay Khand and Mithaiwala crossing, causing jams and accidents. However, police have failed to take any action.
 
 The worst hit are schoolchildren, office goers, and those plying on public transport from Mithaiwala crossing to Hazratganj
 
 For Ajay Saxena, a resident of Vijay Khand II, dropping his son to La Martiniere College in the morning daily becomes a tough job. 
 
 "Around 8am, the stretch from Mithaiwala crossing to Ambedkar crossing is chock-a-block. The reason is that those coming from Polytechnic also turn left from Madhurima flyover to reach Mithaiwala crossing, which is not allowed," said Saxena.
 
 The stretch, under a flyover, is narrow and it is difficult for two vehicles to move on it without causing a congestion. No traffic police personnel has been deployed to regulate traffic on it. 
 
  Ashok Gautam, who was returning with his family in a car from a restaurant near Mithaiwala crossing, met with an accident due to an e-rickshaw coming from the wrong side on the night of April 29. 
 
 Gautam said there are no signboards or barriers to stop people from taking the wrong turn from Madhurima flyover to reach Mithaiwala crossing and Vijay Khand.
 
 Contradicting the claims of commuters, ASP (traffic) RS Nim said four traffic personnel had been deployed on the cut at Madhurima flyover to stop people from taking the left turn towards Mithaiwala crossing. 
 
 A barricade has also been placed, he said. Meanwhile, more than 150 people have been booked for violation in the past three days. 
 
 "In peak hours starting from school rush time to office rush time, the stretch has been assigned to a traffic sub inspector and he is effectively handing it," said Nim. 
 
 He also said that a review will be done after a week and if the measures are not found to be enough, further steps will be taken. 
 
 However, when TOI visited the stretch for a reality check, no traffic personnel was found manning the left cut from Madhurima flyover.
 
 
