The new   government in   is determined to pull the state out of the financial stress and restore law and order, Chief Minister 
 told ET’s 
 in an interview. Thakur, 52, the youngest of five children of a farmer, dismissed   in the party as a factor in governance and said he has political and administrative experience to handle the party of heavyweights and run the hill state. 
 : 

 
 The biggest challenge for us is that the previous government has left behind a debt of Rs 40,500 crore. But we are confident that the Modi government at the Centre will provide us help and we will work hard to speed up development of the state. Himachal is also known as ‘Dev Bhoomi’ the world over but its image has been sullied due to bad law and order in the state. Cases like Gudia’s rape-cum-murder and Hoshiyar’s killing have led to questions over the credibility of the police. I am very firm and determined to restore law and order to inculcate faith of the people in the administrative mechanism.
 
 
  Factionalism within the party has no value. Victory and defeat take place in elections. At the same time what happened was unfortunate. I don’t think this (factionalism) is a challenge. Our party is united and strong…. We will try to work in the same manner in HP as PM   is leading the country and Amit Shah the BJP. 
 
 
 I am not a fresher. For the last 20 years I have been in the assembly; I am a five-time MLA. From mandal president to state party president, I have shouldered responsibility. I have also been a state minister. Keeping my past in view, I don’t think anyone should have any problem. I have experience and I will use that.
 
 
 Many Congress leaders are facing graft charges. Especially former Congress CM is facing serious charges of corruption and the cases are now in courts…. We will not work with vendetta but the government cannot remain silent if people indulge in corruption. Our stand is very clear – we have zero tolerance towards corruption. 
 
 
 I have met the PM. I spoke to him about issues which are beneficial to the state and sought his assistance. He conveyed his best wishes, advised me to work hard and promised all necessary help for the development of Himachal.
 
 
 This decision is in the interest of the masses. We will not allow the economy to become a hindrance to serving people’s interest. I have seen in rural areas that many elders eagerly wait for their pensions since it provides them cushion to meet their monthly expenses. This attempt is for upliftment of poor people.
 
