There is more to the battle in Nagamangala assembly constituency of Mandya district than meets the eye.

 
 Congress is grooming its candidate, N Chaluvarayaswamy, as its Vokkaliga face in Mandya, making the contest a prestige battle for his former party, Janata Dal (Secular).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Chaluvarayaswamy had led a group of seven JD(S) MLAs who quit the party and joined Congress. Their former acolyte’s defeat would not only mean sweet revenge for JD(S) bosses HD Deve Gowda and HD Kumaraswamy but also ensure that Congress will be stranded in the entire Mandya district without a credible leader in its ranks.
 
  
  
 
 JD(S) has fielded Chaluvarayaswamy’s rival for years, Suresh Gowda. In Congress for years, Gowda moved to JD(S) after his bête noire shifted sides.
 
 Unlike most parts of Mandya district, Nagamangala is not irrigated and is considered one of the drought-prone regions in the state. The constituency also houses the Adichunchanagiri Mutt to which Vokkaligas swear allegiance.
 
 Chaluvarayaswamy won from Nagamangala in 1999 and 2004 before losing to Suresh Gowda in 2008. After winning the 2009 Lok Sabha elections from Mandya by defeating actor turned politician MH Ambareesh, he returned to Nagamangala in 2013 when he won the assembly polls against Suresh Gowda.
 
 The two rivals have again locked horns, this time having swapped their party affiliations. But Suresh Gowda’s alleged inaccessibility, he is nicknamed ‘Switched Off Gowda’, could cost him dear this time too.
 
 The electorate comprises 98,000 Vokkaligas, 33,000 Dalits, 28,000 Kurubas, 12,000 Muslims and 5,000 Lingayats. Smaller communities like Ganigas, Vishwakarmas and Acharyas could be the decisive factor in the event of Vokkaliga votes getting split between the two major contenders.
 
 BJP candidate Dr V Parthasarathi, who had contested the previous election and secured just 1,085 votes, says lakes filled with silt, lack of proper roads and poor drinking water facilities, unscheduled power cuts and recurrent crop loss are problems that lie unattended. A confident Chaluvarayaswamy, however, is focusing on improving Congress’ chances in other segments of the district.
 
 While roadshows and door-to-door campaigns are the mainstay of the campaign of all the three major parties, candidates are also knocking on the doors of the Adhichunchanagiri Mutt in Nagamangala taluk to enlist the support of Vokkaligas.
 
