Chandigarh: School-going children with disabilities in Chandigarh have been facing difficult times as the education department has failed to get enough educators for them. In Chandigarh, there are around 4,418 students with special needs as per academic session 2017-18 with only 26 special educators, implying the presence of 1 educator on every 169 such students. 

 As per   ( ), there should be one regular special educator in every school. There are 115 total government schools in Chandigarh with 26 resource teachers. In UT the special educators are on contract.
 
 There are 3,332 students in Classes 1 to 8 under   (SSA) and 1,086 students in Classes 9 to 12 under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA). For these students,   has 22 teachers and RMSA has four teachers which has further played havoc with the pupil-teacher ratio (PTR).
 
 One of the resource teachers, requesting anonymity said, “It is this year that the clusters were rationalized by the education department after which the number of students per teacher were distributed in a better way. Now, I have 175 students in six schools. Earlier, I had more than 400 students. The number is still very high as it creates hindrance for us in focusing on every child.”
 
 The teacher added, “I have a student with special needs in one of the schools I go to, who needs a lot of attention but with 175 children under me, I only can visit the child once a week. So whatever I teach him is forgotten in the gap and we start from scratch every week. The children are suffering due to this. There are still teachers who have to cater to as many as 250 students.”
 
 A recent survey by Panjab University (PU) has also highlighted how children with disabilities have been suffering in the absence of apt number of special educators. The report of the same was published in TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 The CBSE has already made it mandatory for every affiliated school to have a minimum of one special educator and had been asking the schools to do so since 2015. The last circular in this regard was issued on June 13, 2017. CBSE officials have stated that a special educator is specifically required in schools to work with children and young adults who require additional support in order to complete their learning successfully. As per CBSE, special educators are supposed to work with children with physical disabilities, sensory impairments, developmental disabilities such as autism, cerebral palsy and specific learning disabilities, as they are emotionally vulnerable and have behavioural difficulties. A special educator can also work with gifted and talented children.
 
 When approached school education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said the department has already been sent a proposal under Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan for more resource teachers.
 
 A study that has been carried by National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), Chandigarh also stated the need of training of the teachers dealing with the differently-abled students in the city schools. The survey also pointed out that there was a need for special curriculum according to the specific needs of such students. Such specially designed curriculum is expected to help students with disabilities to cope up with their studies and move forward with the rest of the class, the study states.
 
 
