Ahmedabad: The State government’s dream of having   and aero sports activities at the   may well go for a toss with the Centre giving the go-ahead to set up an air force base in Deesa. The Cabinet Committee on Security cleared the plan on Wednesday. However, civil aviation director is still hopeful that Deesa airfield, currently with the  , will come to the state government. 

 
 
 The plan to have a forward fighter base close to Deesa in Banaskantha is a long-pending one. The location is strategic for strengthening security in the western part of India as it will plug the gap between air bases in   (Bhuj) and   (Rajasthan). However, the State government has been seeking possession of the Deesa airfield. It has made several requests and held meetings over last couple of years during which Deesa airfield was an agenda. However, nothing has happened of it. 
 
 
 
 
 Besides hosting aero sports activities, Deesa could also be important in connecting Banaskantha with other major cities in the state. Director of Civil Aviation, Government of Gujarat, Capt Ajay Chauhan pointed out that that Deesa has two different locations. “The one we seek is the old airport that Gujarat State Aviation Infrastructure Company Limited (GUJSAIL) can develop as per aero sports plans. 
 
 We are waiting for AAI’s approval to hand it over it to GUJSAIL.” He said he believed that the site for the air force base was different. However there is no clarity on it . According to state civil aviation sources, the airfield in Deesa is perfect for adventure sports. “There is no air traffic. In the past, it was used for adventure sports by several skydiving federations. It is also a certified drop zone, ideal for skydiving. 
 
 The Indian Parachuting Federation even conducted skydiving camps at the airfield till 2012. But that stopped when the airfield changed hands and went to AAI from the state government,” sources said. Now, the State government plans to resume and promote aero sports under its aegis, sources close to the development stated.
 
 
 
 Gujarat has highest number of airfields— 9 AAI-owned, three Air Force-run, four state government-run and two private ones.
 
 
