MELBOURNE: There's a new edge to  , the quintessential nice guy of the men's game. He has a sterner countenance. His body language is a tad more reserved. He doesn't look over the net or take his leg off the pedal. He keeps running. The Croat gave a fair demonstration of his advanced version in the   semifinal against the 49th ranked Briton   on Thursday.

 The 29-year-old came through 6-2, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 in 2 hours and 18-minutes to move into his third Grand Slam final. The Croat, some four inches taller in height than the 6 ft 2' Edmund and some more in stature, is ranked No.6 in the world and is the 2014 US Open winner. He's also the first from his country to make the final at Melbourne Park.
 
 "I was up and down on my returns in the second set," Cilic said while applauding his opponent. "He has a big serve and a great forehand, but I stayed mentally focused and played every single point. He has played some great tennis to make the semifinals, but it has left some scars on his body, just as it has on mine. I noticed in the third game of the third set, when he let a couple of balls go, that his movement was somewhat restricted."
 
 Cilic, who wasn't broken in the match, faced a couple of breakpoints in his opening service game. Once he negotiated that, the sixth seed was on his way.
 
 At 2-2 in the second set the Briton exploded when he thought chair umpire   didn't use the 'hindrance rule', when he thought a line call obstructed his shot. The 23-year-old called for the referee, but didn't get a reprieve. He pushed the set to tie-breaker, where Cilic stood taller.
 
 Edmund, who appeared edgy for most of the semifinal, was broken early in the third set which all but seal the direction of the match. He sent a backhand into the net to surrender serve. The 23-year-old, born in Johannesburg, and whose family moved to Yorkshire, resides in Nassau in the Bahamas, in the semifinal, his game was somewhat scattered too.
 
 Cilic, who managed his quarterfinal win superbly against the injured world no.1  , not concerning himself with the wear and tear of his rival's run, was hunting for the insurance break against an opponent who was pushing with all he had to take it as far as he could in the third set. Cilic broke again in the long-drawn seventh game and then served out the match.
 
 The Croat, the 2014 US Open winner, who reached the final at Wimbledon last year, but failed to make a match of it against Federer. 
 
 
 
 
