NAGPUR: More than 10,000 people (above 25 years) in Maharashtra die prematurely every year due to toxic emissions from thermal power plants, which is the highest in the country. Nationally the figure is nearly 80,000 adults. All this because 300 thermal power plants have failed to meet the air pollution norms that were granted an extension by the   and Central Pollution Control Board.

 
 TOI analysed the study by Louisiana State University (LSU) released on Wednesday and it revealed that 9 lakh premature deaths in the country can be avoided if mitigation measures to curb air pollution are taken. Additional data provided by the author Hongliang Zhang, assistant professor at the department of civil and environmental engineering at  , discloses that 10.39 lakh people in India die prematurely every year due to different sources. This includes air pollution from coal-fired power plants, industries, household, different modes of transportation, crop burning, open burning of municipal solid waste and dust.
 
 An earlier study conducted by the Conservation Action Trust, Greenpeace India and Urban Emissions had stated that pollution from coal-based power plants resulted in 85,000-1.15 lakh premature deaths between 2011-12. While this study included people of all age groups, the one by LSU only takes into account the population above 25 years.
 
 “With the expansion of thermal power plants and rising pollution in the last few years, the number of premature deaths have gone up,” said Sunil Dahiya, campaigner at Greenpeace India. 
 
 TOI has been reporting on how Indians will continue to suffer for the next few years if the power plants do not comply with environmental norms. While new power plants are all set to come up in various parts the country, the study concludes that cancelling the construction of the proposed coal-fired power plants can save 26,000 lives. Maharashtra is also likely to get its first ultra supercritical thermal power plant soon. 
 
 As stated by the   (WHO) earlier, household air pollution is taking away maximum lives in India. The data provided by Zhang substantiates this. According to it, 5.76 lakh adults die pre-maturely every year due to air pollution arising from burning fuels like biomass, kerosene and coal for cooking and heating purposes.
 
 LSU’s study, which is based on mathematical modelling, concluded that reducing the use of solid fuel in households by 50%, especially in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and the North-East can avoid 2.58 lakh deaths annually. 
 
 Uttar Pradesh witnesses maximum premature deaths due to residential pollution — 1.43 lakh per year. Next in line is Bihar with 75,300 deaths annually. 
 
 After household, the second-largest killer in India is industrial air pollution which causes 2.04 lakh premature deaths per year. According to the data, Uttar Pradesh witnesses the highest deaths from this source — 44,000 per year. Being the most populated state, it is also the worst polluted when it comes to air pollution from transportation, crop burning and dust.
 
 Open burning of municipal solid waste, which was banned by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016, is killing 2,400 adults every year, the data states. With 3,300 deaths annually, Chhattisgarh tops the list of worst affected states due to garbage burning. It is followed by Assam which has 500 deaths every year. Assuming that waste burning is reduced by 80%, the study highlighted that 46,000 lives can be saved across the country. 
 
 The data further shows that around 4,900 people living in Punjab die prematurely due to crop burning in and around the region. “If crop burning is completely abandoned, almost 55,000 premature deaths per year can be avoided,” the study stated. 
 
 Though last year the government framed rules to tackle dust pollution, they remain unimplemented at several places. While dust pollution kills 5,800 adults yearly in Uttar Pradesh, 5,200 die in Maharashtra.
 
 
