NEW DELHI: Students,   and physically challenged persons may get some relief from the increased   fare with urban affairs ministry writing to DMRC to explore whether discounted or special fares could be offered to such persons. 

 “At least, there should be some special fares for senior citizens and students. We have already proposed that to the Delhi Metro. I’ve asked the Delhi Metro chief to find out some way. We will do it,” PTI quoted housing and urban affairs minister   as saying. 
 
 College students had protested against the fare hike and any move to provide concession would help DMRC tide over criticism over declining ridership since the fare hike.
 
 On October 10, TOIhad first reported that the Centre was open to provide some relief to students and senior citizens who “regularly” use Delhi Metro. TOI had also reported that urban affairs ministry was keen to explore the possibility of issuing monthly passes to such persons to reduce their burden. 
 
 Puri had said he understands the concerns of students, senior citizens and physically challenged persons. 
 
 On January 2, the minister had told Lok Sabha that his ministry would soon recommend that Delhi Metro offer concessional fares to students and senior citizens. Replying to a question, he had said, “The question was asked whether we are doing it. It is not our task to do this but we will be happy to make that recommendation. Whenever the next Fare Fixation Committee (FCC) is established, we will be happy to make that recommendation.” Puri had said the initiative should not be considered “populist” and it would be within the framework of the law. 
 
 The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is a 50:50 joint venture between the Centre and the Delhi government. Its fares are revised on the recommendation of the FFC. 
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party government had opposed the fare hike and CM Arvind Kejriwal had last week raised the issue again at a public function attended by Puri. Kejriwal is scheduled to meet Puri on Monday where various issues including the DMRC phase-IV and ongoing sealing drive are likely to come up for discussion.
 
