 and   have a rather unusual love story. The two met on ' ', with millions watching their every move on TV every night. Their romance blossomed on the show and has remarkably survived the end of the season. Puneesh himself quips, "'Bigg Boss' ki toh dostiyan bhi nahi chalti. Hamara toh pyaar bhi chal raha hai."

  Recently, the couple was in Gurgaon to spend a couple of days with Puneesh's family. It was their first visit to the city together and we caught up with them to chat about everything from the Delhi vs Mumbai debate and Gurgaon's party spots to their marriage plans.
 
  
  
 
 The two have been living together in Mumbai for the past few months now, and admit that the most frequent question they get is, 'When are you getting married?' To that, Bandgi simply replies, "What's the need of getting married? Shaadi karke saath hi rehna hai. Woh ab bhi reh rahe hain. I don't see the point in getting married just for that stamp of approval." Puneesh adds, "Right now, we are happy staying together. And we have known each other for just six months. It's too soon to think about marriage right now. Jab honi hogi, ho jaayegi."
 
 For now, they are happy, they say. And quite comfortable too! "My family adores her," says Puneesh, adding, "Now, they don't even call me at times. They simply call her and ask her if I'm around." This is what prompted them to come to Gurgaon. "I wanted to come home but I also did not want to leave her back in Mumbai. And I thought this would be a good opportunity for me to get her to Gurgaon and show her around," he says. But spending time with family wasn't the only agenda during their brief Gurgaon trip. Puneesh had been waiting for months to meet his gang of friends. "Having lived in Gurgaon, I love to party here. And I have been waiting to meet my friends here, and also take Bandgi to a few spots like Cyber Hub and Sector 29, and of course, to some places in Delhi," he tells us.
 
 
  
  The lovebirds were in Gurgaon to meet Puneesh's family
 
 
 
 
 Bandgi is also not new to Delhi and Gurgaon. Before moving to Mumbai three years ago, she used to live in South Ex. She says, "I used to go to   or CP with my gang of girls all the time, and sometimes Gurgaon as well. So I'm familiar with the place." However, she is quick to add that she prefers Mumbai to Delhi. "I have felt safer in Mumbai, and also freer. In Mumbai, you could be out at night roaming around and nobody would interfere. That is something which is not there in Delhi or Gurgaon. Also, Delhi sleeps early. In Mumbai, no matter what the time is, there is always some place to go to." This prompts a quick defence of Delhi-Gurgaon from Puneesh. He jokes, "I think she hasn't seen Gurgaon's parties that go on till early morning, which is why she is misinformed. As for people in Mumbai not interfering, main bas kahoonga Mumbai walon ko ek-doosre ki parwah hi nahi hai. I always prefer Delhi. Apna shehar hai." Both say that this Delhi-vs-Mumbai debate is a constant in their lives. Bandgi says, "I prefer Mumbai and he prefers Delhi. So be it food or lifestyle or roads, we will constantly argue about what is better where. All in fun, though."
 
  
  
 
 
 A while back, Bandgi and Puneesh were trolled for attempting to recreate a romantic picture posted by Anushka Sharma, with several trolls calling the couple "copycats". To that, Bandgi says, "Of course, it was copied. But we weren't trying to be compared with them (  and Anushka Sharma). We like how they are as a couple. They are couple goals for us and we – as fans – just tried to recreate that."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
