is in the town, its time for you to focus on all the days individually and do something special each day to bring closeness in your relationship.A teddy bear is perhaps the first love of many girls—a constant companion during her bad days or the soft pillow to hold onto as she slowly drifts off to sleep. Indeed, this adorable toy rightly deserves a day to celebrate the festival of love.

 
  
  
 The reason behind the origin of Teddy Day as one of the important days during the Valentine’s week has nothing to do with romantic couples or a love story. Named after US President Theodore 'Teddy' Roosevelt, this adorable soft toy was created to honour the decision of the President to not kill the animal during one of his hunting trips. 
 
 Whatever may the history be, 
 is one of the most important days of the Valentine’s week. 
 
 
 
 
 A teddy is more than just a soft toy for a girl. It gives her warm hugs when you are not around and helps your girl sleep better. At times when you are unavailable to speak to her, the teddy will do the job. Girls love talking to their teddies and it becomes their ‘Happy hour’.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Gift a pair of two cute small teddies preferably stocked in a mushy box. The gift is certainly going to win the heart of your Valentine.
 
 
 
  
  
 Get a bucket personalised in the name of your valentine and stuff with cute teddy bears along with chocolates and cards. This is a sure way to win the heart of your girl this Valentine 2018.
 
 
 
  
  
 You can also another category of soft teddies other than the usual bears.   is the currently the most popular soft toy to woo a woman. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Buy a couple teddy dressed for wedding to hint your girl about your dreams. If you wish to propose her marriage, this will make for an ideal gift.
 
 
 
  
  
 Nothing beats the ripples huge teddies create in the hearts of the lovers. Choose a red or a pink gigantic teddy bear and you will never forget the expressions of your lady love on receiving it.
 
 
 
  
  
 There could be many opposing the idea of such mushy days and chose to not celebrate them But once you receive a teddy like this, it will melt your heart right away! Choose a teddy couching on a big heart and see how it makes an impression your girl this Teddy Day!
 
