GHAZIABAD: More than 100 shanties were gutted in a massive fire that was triggered by a cylinder blast in Indirapuram’s Kanawani village on Tuesday morning.

 Though there were no reports of anyone being killed in the fire, six people sustained minor burns. the blaze left over 250 migrants labourers, mostly from West Bengal, homeless.
 
 Eyewitnesses said they heard a loud explosion around 10.30 am and soon after the fire engulfed the hutments with tin shades that were spread in an area of two acres, which was followed by at least 30 back-to-back explosions. Though many labourers had left for work, there were still about 75 of them, including children and the elderly, when the fire broke out and they were evacuated by locals and firemen.
 
 Some residents of the settlement claimed the fire tenders reached the spot nearly 45 minutes later and all the hutments were gutted by that time. Nine fire tenders took one-and-a-half hours to douse the flames.
 
 Aslam, who lived in one of the hutments with his family, said as soon as he heard an explosion, he rushed out and found a hutment on fire. “The fire started spreading rapidly. I quickly alerted my neighbours and evacuated my elderly parents as I knew that the blaze would soon engulf my house too,” he said. Chaya, who works as a domestic help in neighbouring highrises, had gone to work, while her two children, aged 8 and 12 years, were in the hutment with their father when the fire broke out. 
 
 “As soon as I got the news of the fire, I rushed back. A thick smoke was billowing out that could be seen from a distance and when I heard back-to-back explosions, I became worried about the safety of my family,” she said. “Fortunately, all my family members could get out of the hutment unhurt. However, all our belongings were gutted in the fire,” she said.
 
 An elderly man, Shiv Charan, suffered minor burn injuries while trying to escape the inferno. 
 
 “My aged father was asleep in our hutment when the fire broke out, he suffered burn injuries in his back and hand, and had to be rushed to a local hospital,” said Mithun, his son.
 
 Aslam, who also lost everything in fire, said “the fire tenders reached around 11.15, but that was too late”.
 
 However, Sunil Kumar, chief fire officer, refuted the allegations. “We received information around 10.38 am and within 15 minutes, we had dispatched the first fire tender from Vaishali, which was followed by eight more fire tenders which were called from Noida and Hindon Air Force fire stations. In about one-and-a-half hours, the fire was brought under control,” he added.
 
 When asked about the cause of fire, Kumar said that it was due to human negligence. “Fire started in one of the shanties while food was being cooked and spread due to   cylinder blasts. There were close to 30 blasts that rocked the area as the fire spread ,” he added.
 
 The administration, meanwhile, said the land where the shanties stood was a disputed one. “We are given to understand that the land belongs to GDA and some people from the village had encroached it and rented out hutments to migrant labourers,” said additional district magistrate Gyanendra Singh. “The matter is being investigated and if need arises, a case will be lodged against the landlords,” he added.
 
 
