CHENNAI: Buckling under pressure from civil society groups and senior doctors for its lack of transparency, the state   authority has finally released a record of licensed psychiatrichomes and de-addiction centers. The irony: at least a dozen names that advocated better accessibility to these services are missing from the list.

 In a notification last month, titled ‘List of Licensed Psychiatric Homes and De-addiction/Rehabilitation Centres’, the state health department has put out names of only those that got new licenses or renewed existing onesin 2017. Centresthat were registered in the preceding years were omitted. Senior health officials could offer no explanation. According tothe notification, 43 psychiatric homes and rehabilitation centers were issued licenses in 2017, including 11in Chennai.
 
 Institutions that have been running facilities for the mentally ill for more than two decades and which have also played an active role in framing policies related to mental health, like Schizophrenia Research Foundation, the Banyan and TTKde-addiction centre in Chennai, were absent from thislist. Dr R Padmavati, joint director of SCARF, said they had separate licenses for all three of their facilities. “We renewed them in 2016,” she told TOI. “Who is this notification intended for? If it’s for the public, why hasn’t the state released the entire list?” she asked.
 
 Dr  , directormedical services at T T Ranganathan Clinical Research Foundation (TTK hospital), said the hospital has for long been pushing the state to come up with a concrete licensing policy and to make the list accessibletothe public.
 
 “It won’t just guide families but will also help us in referrals,” she said.
 
 The state mental health authority issues licences to centres that comply with the theIndian Mental HealthAct, 1987. Though licencing was legally mandatory since 1993, it became an important issue only after the Erwadi incident in which 28 chained mentally ill peoplewere charredto death in a faith-run mental asylum in August2001.
 
 Repeated calls to Dr Kalaiselvan, thedirector of Institute of Mental Health, Kilpauk, went unanswered. A retired director TOI spoke to said the authority is reluctant to put a list in the public domain as it would put more pressure on them to crack down on unlicensed ones. “A preliminary internet search will reveal more than two dozen centers that are not on our list. We don’t have sufficient staff to check each unlicensed center,” said a former director. This was corroborated by other sourcesin theInstitute.
 
 Vandana Gopikumar, cofounder of The Banyan, said by not revealing the entire list, the state is losing an opportunity to set up a network of rehabilitation centers for the mentally ill.
 
 Health department officials said they are working on setting up a new mental health authority, comprising 15 members, which will be chaired by the health secretary as stipulated by the the  , passed by the Parliament last year.
 
 
