PUNE: The process of subject evaluation for students — whose answer sheets were destroyed in a fire at a zilla parishad school in Beed — is so “confidential” that not only are the officials unwilling to talk about it, they claim information is outside the ambit of even the Right to Information Act.

 “We cannot talk about the method of giving marks to these students, but we can assure that no student will suffer. The method is so confidential that it is exempted from the RTI Act,” said Shakuntala Kale, the chairperson of the   of secondary and  . The officials also denied the possibility of a re-exam.
 
 A former chairman of the board, however, shed some light on the evaluation methods that may be adopted in cases when answer sheets are destroyed due to the board’s fault. “Most of the time, the executive body of the board meets and decides what to do. Once a student has written the exam, it is considered unfair to make him or her write the exam again. Moreover, a re-exam requires many processes. Most of the time, the method of ‘average’ is used to award marks,” said the former chairman.
 
 Explaining the process, he said, “If there are five subjects, and in four of them a student has scored 50, he/she is likely to be awarded 50 marks in the fifth subject as well, in case the answer sheet for the fifth subject is destroyed. If there is a practical element to the total marks, then a similar formula is adopted.” However, he admitted that barring re-examination, all other methods are also unfair to students who may have done well in that particular subject. “Suppose a student has done exceptionally well in mathematics and not so well in other subjects. Now, if the answer sheet for mathematics were to get destroyed, the student will unfairly get poor marks in mathematics as well because his average in the other subjects was poor. Conversely, this method will benefit students who have done poorly in maths,” he said.
 
 Questions are also being raised about the rules regarding storage room safety measures. “The police deploys personnel at these centres to make sure nothing untoward happens. But in case of a fire, what can the police do? Most of the answer sheets that were destroyed were of mathematics,” said Kale.
 
 A board official, who requested anonymity, said there was no fire-fighting equipment in the storeroom.
 
 
