HYDERABAD: Questioning how schools have become more powerful than the government, the Hyderabad School Parents’ Association on Wednesday said school managements are violating government directions which says fees cannot be hiked for the academic year 2018-19 until further orders.

 The parent organisation said the move to hike fees is a direct assault on the authority of the government and asked the latter to initiate the strongest action possible, even if it means de-recognising some schools or withdrawing their No Objection Certificates (NOCs).
 
 In a letter submitted to education minister  , the   said, “We would like to bring to your kind notice the fact that most of the schools have still gone ahead and increased the fees totally ignoring the government orders against doing so. You would note, sir, that this is not an exception but arule that the schools brook no authority over them, not even that of the government.”
 
 
  
 
 The letter further says, “This (hiking of fees) is giving rise to several doubts and questions in the minds of all citizens if the schools have become more powerful than the government itself. It’s, of course, another question altogether as to what morals and ethics the schools will teach our children, the future citizens of our state and nation, when they themselves follow none. We see such actions of schools as a direct assault on the authority of the government and do hope that that the government will initiate the strongest action possible.”
 
 Members of HSPA met the minister at his residence, and thanked him for issuing an order against fee hike for 2018-19.
 
 “This step has generated great positivity amongst parents and has given us hope that our government is listening to us. We do, however, note that this is an interim step and the final relief would come only in the form of a final order, preferably an ordinance setting up fee regulatory commissions,” said  , vice-president, HSPA, adding that the association hopes that the government would go all the way and set up fee regulatory committees before end of March 2018.
 
 The education minister said he would look into the issue and asked parents to cooperate and not pay the enhanced fee. He also said that schools demanding hiked fee must be reminded of instructions issued to the  .
 
