THANE: Two burglars, involved in a house break-in case at actor Bhagyashri Patwardhan’s in-laws home, have been arrested by the Thane crime branch unit-5. The victims,   and his wife Shakuntla, lived in Hirak Society, Irla

 The accused—Pintu Nishad (26) and Mahesh Nishad (33)—were absconding since January 24, 2014, after committing the burglary. They were traced to Thane and caught while they were planning to strike in Vasant Vihar last week.
  
 Two men—Sanjaykumar Nishad and Rakesh Jaiswar—were earlier arrested by the Mumbai crime branch in connection with the robbery. 
 
  
  
 The names of Pintu and Mahesh emerged while cops were probing a burglary case registered at Vartak Nagar   station. “We learnt through our network of informers that the two were likely to strike in Vasant Vihar and laid a trap,” said assistant police commissioner Mukund Hatote.
 
 The sleuths seized a 12-inch chopper, a screwdriver and a sack of accessories, which are used for house break-ins, Hatote told TOI. “Upon interrogation, the men revealed that they were also involved in the robbery in 2014 at Bhagyashri Patwardhan’s in-laws home,” said a police officer. 
 
 “The two worked as help and gained the Dasanis’ confidence. They kept a close watch on their daily activities and spiked their coffee with sleeping pills. Along with two others, they escaped with jewellery and other valuables worth Rs 26 lakh,” said senior inspector Jairaj Ranavare. The police had registered an offence under sections 307, 328, 381,120B of the Indian Penal Code against them on January 24, 2014. Jewellery worth Rs 62,000 robbed from a flat in Vartak Nagar was seized from Pintu and Mahesh, said police sub-inspector Shivraj Bendre.
 
 The sleuths have not ruled out their involvement in other similar crimes at the homes of the rich.
 
 “It is suspected that they may have robbed rich people after seeking employment in their homes. It will be clear after the inquiry progresses,” Bendre informed. They will be handed over to the Mumbai police.
 
 
