JALANDHAR: Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh   on Monday submitted a complaint to Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) against   additional district and sessions judge   for providing wrong information to the regional passport office (RPO), Jalandhar to obtain a fresh passport for his daughter. Bains also annexed several documents, including the affidavits submitted by the judge, his wife and his daughter to the RPO, obtained through the   route.

 Addressing a press conference here after submitting the complaint in Kapurthala, Bains said if the Kapurthala police did not take any action on his complaint he would move the   under Article 32 of the Constitution.
 
 He said he had submitted the complaint to the Kapurthala SSP as the ‘false’ documents were procured from different offices in Kapurthala. He also provided copies of all the documents with the complaint.
 
 The complaint and documents submitted by Bains include birth certificate of Jossan’s daughter Sally Jossan, along with his own and his wife Manu Jossan’s affidavit which mention that Sally’s date of birth was July 28, 1997 and she was born at a hospital in Jalandhar. The copy of the passport, issued on July 12, 2000, also mentions place of birth as Jalandhar. However, in another set of documents—including copies of birth certificate issued by registrar of births and deaths, Kapurthala, Sally’s date of birth is mentioned as July 28, 1998 and place of birth has been shown at Kapurthala.
 
 According to Form No. 2, providing information of birth which mentions Jossan’s profession as civil judge, a midwife facilitated the birth. The documents about registration of birth also mentioned the parents claimed that they could not intimate about the birth in time and then they got “not found” certificate after which a late entry was allowed and daughter’s birth was facilitated by a midwife. Name of their daughter is mentioned Sarah Jossan and copy of the passport shows that it was issued first on October 5, 2006 and it was further renewed on June 29, 2012. The documents also include two affidavits by Sarah Jossan.
 
 Both set of documents submitted by Jossans show the residence address as House Number 50, Aman Nagar, Kapurthala. The complaint also mentioned that all these documents were procured under the RTI from RPO Jalandhar and Jalandhar deputy commissioner.
 
 When contacted, the Kapurthala SSP Sandeep Sharma said the complaint had been marked to the DSP, Kapurthala for investigation.
 
 When Jossan was called up on the official landline number, an aide asked to call after sometime saying that he was still in court. Later, no one picked up the phone. ADJ Jossan neither took calls on his mobile phone in the evening not responded to SMSs mentioning the specific allegations leveled by Bains in his complaint.
 
 
