Nagpur: While dealing on a law point regarding proceedings in the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence (DV) Act, 2005, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday stressed on the importance of a family in the society stating that being a smallest unit of an organized society, it’s a nursery for children to acquire values. The three-judge bench comprising Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari, Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Swapna Joshi also settled a dispute on law point on whether the proceedings under DV Act are in nature of criminal proceedings and whether the HC can exercise its powers under Section 482 of CrPC. While answering both queries in affirmative, the court suggested a rider in first one by clarifying that proceedings under the DV Act are predominantly of civil nature, and only when there is breach of the protection order and failure to discharge duty by the protection officer, those can assume the character of criminality. Disposing of the plea by Nandkishor Vyawahare filed in 2011, the judges clarified that not only aggrieved men, but also women can approach HC under Section 482 to prevent abuse of process of court under the DV Act proceedings to secure ends of justice. Vyawahare’s wife Mangala had lodged a complaint against her husband under DV Act. Following which criminal proceedings were initiated against Vyawahare. The chief justice had constituted a three-judge bench after Justice (retired) Ambadas Joshi had referred the case while citing conflicting verdicts delivered by Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Shukre.  Coming to the rescue of victim women, the judges observed that Parliament treats domestic violence as a human rights issue and “a serious deterrent to the development”. “No family with children as its members attains its completeness without a woman. If there is any disturbance, mental or physical, for a woman member of the family, it would have it's deleterious effect on the health of the family as a whole. A disturbed and distressed family would not be able to give its contribution to the society to grow, develop and flourish in the world community,” the judges said. Quoting references from the history, the judges added that going through texts of different religions, they found that at different points of time, in the history of human civilizations, there are instances when women and womanhood have been respected, revered and sometimes even put on a high pedestal. “Israelites considered Deborah as mother of Israel and she has been eulogized in a poem. One of the Ten Commandments found in Exodus, calls upon children to honour their father and mother. Hindu texts present diverse views on the subject, though, they generally acknowledge the feminine energy as the essence of the Universe (Devi Sukta — Rigveda), the one who creates all matter and consciousness, the external and infinite, the metaphysical and physical reality (Brahma), and the soul (Atman) of everything. Even Manusmriti, not generally considered as treating women with equality, praises them,” the judges said. The court also named an array of luminaries who fought and worked for emancipation of women in India in modern times. “From Mahatma Jyotiba Phule through Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, Jawaharlal Nehru to APJ Abdul Kalam, all have seen that no human society can ever make progress unless its women are treated with dignity and honour they deserve. At international level too, a global consensus on the need for protecting women against all kinds of violence has emerged among the nations, which is seen in the Vienna Accord, 1994, the Beijing Declaration and the Platform for Action (1995), and the United Nations Committee on Convention on Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).”