Come 12 pm and womenfolk in most Kannadiga households are seated in front of their television sets, eagerly taking notes of recipes on Kannada’s most loved cookery show, Oggarane Dabbi. The programme recently clocked 1,250 episodes making it the longest-running   on   television. “Of course, what can be more gratifying than the fact that I’m the host of the show? When I took over   five years ago, it’s TRPs were at an all-time low and was on the verge of being taken off air. I took it up as a challenge and turned the tables around,” says a visibly thrilled  . While the success has been sweet and Murali’s cheeky and nonchalant anchoring skills have fetched him much notice, his entry or rather re-entry into the world of anchoring is an interesting tale.
 It was in 1995 that Murali got into television, given his gift of the gab. “I started by hosting a dial-in show and it became extremely popular. The cable TV boom had just about started and all the cable TV operators began inundating me with offers to host similar shows for them, too. In the interim, I had joined an internationally-known TV network as their distribution head for Karnataka, so during weekends, I’d go to different towns and cities of Karnataka and host the dial-a-song programme for them. This went on for many years and when a rule came in that employees of our company should not be seen on visual medium, I had to give anchoring a pass,” he recalls.
  Marital bliss followed and when the kids came along, Murali shares that it was their banter that made him return to anchoring. “They had seen clips of my earlier programmes and wanted to know why I am not seen on the small screen any more. That’s it... that one innocent query made me do a rethink and I decided to enter the fray once again,” concurs Murali.
  Having already established a name and a rapport with various channels and television heads, Murali then approached some friends in a popular channel to give him a programme which he could anchor. “And they said, ‘Ok, we have a cookery show, but it has dismal TRPs. See if you want to take it up.’ I took it up as a challenge and decided I had to bring up the TRPs to at least 2. The contract was drawn up and we gave ourselves 40 days to make that change. The previous makers of the show had even left the sets intact thinking I wouldn’t tick long. This was in 2013. What started as a 40-day stint has today celebrated 1,250 episodes,” says Murali. So what was the secret of this success? Murali attributes it to the casual format of the show. “Prior to our show, all the cookery shows had a formal tone. ‘Gas mele banale idi’, which was then followed by some western music, after which again the anchor would say ‘banalege heccchida tarakari haaki’, which was again accompanied by music. All this made the programme very holier than thou and I decided to change that. I spoke to the participants in a jovial manner, pulled their leg, enquired after their families and teased newly weds about their amateur cooking skills. People loved this and housewives appreciated the easy nature of the show,” he avers. “I also got caterers, home cooks, Ayurveda experts and regional cuisine connoisseurs on the show. For example, Chandrappa has been coming to our home to cook for family functions for over 20 years. He became so popular that he has five small hotels today,” says a proud Murali. So where to from here? “I have no clue. There are 2,400 housewives waiting to come on the show. A stalwart like Sadanand Maiya, who is usually reserved but extremely knowledgeable, has come on our show and personally shown us age-old recipes. I can’t but feel fortunate when such things happen on my show. Star hotels want to tie up with us. Currently, I am basking in this glory,” signs off Murali.
