JAIPUR: The department of tourism, art and culture has failed to form 'board of governance' for three academies—Brajwasi (Jaipur),   Sahitya Sanskriti (Bikaner) and Rajasthan Sangeet Natak (Jodhpur)–even fourand-a half-years since the present government were formed.

 The absence of boards has caused great damage to promotion of languages that come under these academies. Funds have been lapsing and there have been fewer publications, seminars, conferences, workshops and award ceremonies, etc. It has turned these academies non-functional. The inactive academies especially Rajasthani Bhasha and Brajwasi have invited sharp criticism from academicians and activists who have been camping for these Hindi dialects to be included in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.
 
 
 Rajasthani language is popular in Eastern Rajasthan especially in Marwar region and in some parts of Sindh in Pakistan. B D Kalla, former education minister's (1998-2003) proposal of inserting recognition of Rajasthani into the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution of India, was passed by the   in 2003. He accused BJP government of not only blinking their eyes on the proposal but they are neglecting the academy due to its political reasons.
 
 “State has well-known literary figures in Rajasthani language. Despite the government has neither appointed the chairperson nor the board. I have repeatedly approached them about the same but it fell on the deaf ears,” said Kalla.
 
 Similar is a fate of  . Spoken mainly in Bharatpur, Alwar in Rajasthan the language is considered older than Hindi. Until few years ago, the academy was centre of Brajwasi literature in the country. Its quarterly journal, Braj Shatdal, was famous in entire Braj region was last published three years ago due to absence of contributors.
 
 Kalanath Shastri, former member of Brajwasi Academy, expressed his pain over the neglect by the state. “Brajwasi is the language of Lord Krishna dynasty. The academy which use to promote dozens of upcoming writers by providing them finance for books, platforms like conferences and seminars to showcase their work is sitting idle,” said Shastri.
 
 Same goes with the Rajasthan Sangeet Natak Academy. The funds for many programmes have lapsed due to absence of officious.
 
 Minister of tourism, art and culture, Krishnendra Kaur (Deepa) says that they will fill the vacant positions soon. “The vacant positions in boards will be filled on the right time,” said Kaur, who didn’t respond when asked when is the right time comes. TOI called Subodh Agarwal, principal secretary, of tourism, art and culture department who refused to speak.
 
