RANCHI: Ruling   parties in the state officially announced to contest both seats of   on Sunday evening but the central office of the party released only the name of   from Jharkhand in the list of 18 candidates. The list was released late on Sunday evening and the state leaders were waiting for the second name to be released. 

 Congress on Sunday too nominated two-time Rajya Sabha member   as its sole candidate for the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls scheduled for March 23. 
 
 BJP's chief whip in the state,  , said the party has decided to contest on both seats which was ratified in the meeting of the NDA legislative party. 
 
 "BJP is a national party and the final decision is to be taken by the central election committee. We are expecting another list to be out soon," he said. The legislators have been directed to assemble at chief minister's Dhurva residence on Monday morning, the last date for filing nominations, and from there accompany the candidates to the office of the assembly secretariat. Kishore said the name for the second seat is likely to be released by Monday morning.
 
 Oraon is the former MLA from Sisai Assembly seat in Gumla district and is known for his clean image in the party. At present, he is vice president of the state unit and has also led the ST wing of the party for quite some time. He also enjoys the support chief minister Raghubar Das. 
 
 Asked if the party will field another local candidate from the second seat, Kishore said the state unit had conveyed its sentiments to the central leaders. "We want the state is represented in the Upper House by a grassroots worker," said Anant Ojha, member of state election committee. 
 
 In the 81-member Jharkhand assembly, with effective strength of 80MLAs after disqualification of JMM MLA Yogendra Prasad, BJP has 43 MLAs and is likely to secure one seat easily for which it requires 27 first preference votes. Bagging the second seat is likely to be a tough challenge with the support of remaining 16MLAs of its own and four MLAs of AJSU (Party). BJP needs to arrange at least seven votes of first preference to win the second seat as well.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress legislative party leader Alamgir Alam made its announcement in the afternoon and said Sahu will be backed by Congress, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Jharkhand Vikas Morcha - Prajatantrik (JVM-P) and Left party MLAs. 
 
 Sahu, a Lohardaga-based businessman and a Congress functionary for 20 years, was picked by the party's central leadership ahead of veteran politician Rajendra Prasad Singh. The 59-year-old had taken his nomination papers last week while the state Congress leadership was busy stitching a pre-poll alliance with JMM. He will file his candidature on Monday. 
 
 Sahu was first elected to the Upper House in 2009 for a brief tenure of 11 months before being re-elected to a full-term in July 2010. Hailing from a family of politicians, Sahu has held various Congress posts in between 2005 and 2017, including vice-president and treasurer. He also contested the Lok Sabha polls from Chatra twice but lost.
 
 Alam said Sahu will have 29 votes in the 81-member-strong state Assembly. "The BJP does not have the number to ensure a win for their second candidate. If they still contest in both the seats, they will resort to horse-trading like previous year," the Pakur MLA claimed. 
 
 The 2016 Rajya Sabha poll was mired in controversy after a series of events came to light before and after the polling. Congress MLA Nirmala Devi accused a top cop of threatening her if she voted while a video surfaced showing chief minister Raghubar Das negotiating with her politician-husband Yogendra Saw.
 
 A Congress MLA abstained from voting too and a JMM MLA was prevented from casting his ballot on the poll day. The EC had directed the state government to initiate an action ,which is still pending.
 
