BHOPAL: The image of the state capital, battered and shamed by a spurt in crimes against women is looking for redemption. To make women feel safe and at ease, officials and some educational institutes are toying with the idea of replicating a successful project of Kerala— The  .

 In Kerala, the corridor has CCTVs, sanitary-napkin dispenser, toilets, benches and success stories of women painted on the walls.
 
 In Bhopal, three educational institutes that share a common geographical location around Shivaji Nagar have come forward to help translate the idea into reality. The Sarojini Naidu Government Girls college, Government Women's Polytechnic College and   are located in such a way that they can be connected through a common corridor which would be exclusively meant for the girl students. 
 
 TOI found out that the three institutes would be ideal for developing ‘She-Corridor’, a 700-metre in stretch.
 
 Principals of the three institutes have expressed their willingness to earmark a small stretch of road especially for women. Identifying an area for the ‘she-corridor’ on the road adjoining, TOI spoke to the principals of the three institutes asking for more details about the proposed project. 
 
 Manjula Sharma, principal Sarojini Naidu Government Girls college said, “If the road linking the three institutes is turned into a pink-corridor, it will definitely be of a great help for women and girl students. Girls residing in the nearby hostels and those coming to the she-market in the ground opposite the college will feel safer. They can use the place for recreational activities without any fear.”
 
 Sharma suggested that a small library and women-run cafeteria be set up in the corridor.
 
 K V Rao, principal Government Women's Polytechnic College and Hari Bhavan Singh Tomar, principal Sarojini Naidu Girls Higher Secondary School also gave their affirmation for the corridor, saying it’s a good idea to dedicate the road for women. The corridor will make the stretch of road safer for around 6,500 women studying in the three institutes as well as those residing nearby.
 
 Shama Ashfaq, a final-year student at the polytechnic institute, said, “This is a brilliant idea. If the corridor is equipped with   cameras, it will definitely be a safe place for girls. Last year after the annual function, some girls were waiting for their parents so principal sir along with a few male teachers had to wait with them to ensure their safety. If this place is turned into a pink-corridor, we can safely wait here, without fear of mishaps or harassment.”
 
 A student of Sarojini Naidu College, Shubhada Londha said that after college gets over girls walking to the bus stop sometimes feel uncomfortable and those studying in schools were also subjected to harassment, but the corridor can be a good step in curbing such activities. 
 
 Pointing out the practical problems that will be required to be overcome and suggesting alternate measures, chief city planner of   Subhash Banarjee said, “The road connecting the three institutes also connects Shivaji Nagar to Char Imli, MP Nagar and Board Office, so we cannot make that stretch of road especially for women. But we can build a pedestrian pathway, equipped with all the facilities, connecting the campuses with each other, the bus stand and hawkers’ point for women. It’s not impossible.”
 
  Capital Project Administration (CPA) superintending engineer Jawahar Singh said, “This can be easily done if the institutes are ready to cooperate. A few facilities can be made inside the campuses as well.”
 
 
