NOIDA: Ekisha Sah’s family and friends organised a candlelight march on Wednesday evening from Film City to the   (GIP) Mall, demanding justice for her. Her family had moved a plea in the Supreme Court on Tuesday and a hearing is scheduled on April 6. Ekisha committed suicide at her Noida home on March 20. Her family claims she was harassed by teachers. 

 Raghav Sah, Ekisha’s father, said that even after nine days the Noida police have not made any significant breakthrough. “Noida police officials are not investigating the case seriously. We have approached the Supreme Court demanding a CBI probe. We have no other way to seek justice. The apex court is the only hope for us now,” Sah said.
 
 Ekisha, a student of  , Mayur Vihar, lived with her parents and elder brother in Noida Sector 52. She hanged herself from a grill of her house when the family members were away. She was rushed to Kailash Hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. 
 
 The victim’s family alleged that Ekisha took the extreme step after she was sexually harassed and purposefully failed in science and social science exams. Police initially registered a case of abetment to suicide and criminal intimidation against the school’s social science teacher Rajiv Sehgal, science teacher Neeraj Anand and principal Dharmendra Goyal. However, later Section 354 (outraging woman’s modesty) of IPC and POCSO Act were also added to the FIR. Sah alleged that the police may be under pressure from the school management and hence no arrest has been made so far.
 
 Ekisha’s mother Deepmala Nutan said that this fight for justice was not only for Ekisha. “We are trying to ensure no other student meets such an end,” she said. The school management has denied the allegations, saying the school has been following promotion policies of CBSE. The management said the student’s parents had not made any complaint regarding harassment in the past. Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida said that the police have not found any evidence to corroborate the allegations of sexual harassment levelled in the FIR. “We had requested the CBSE to form a board for a re-evaluation of the student’s answer-sheets. They have issued a letter and formed the board. We are now seeking permission from the court for a date for re-evaluation,” he said.
 
 
