Mumbai: Bandra’s Linking Road was abuzz with activities on Sunday morning. 

 The 3km stretch was blocked for pedestrian use from 7am to 11am. Equal Streets—a movement supported by Times of India—aims to reclaim the otherwise busy roads for pedestrian use and pulled a crowd of more than 30,000. “From Monday to Saturday, we feel like we live in a small village. Otherwise, how can a boy have the luxury of cycling on a main road? I am coming here for the third time this year and I love this initiative,” said Dr Jeriwala. 
 
 “This is just the beginning… we need to have this initiative all year round. It should not be a once-in-a-blue moon phenomenon,” said his friend Prabhu Solanki. All through the stretch, there were citizens engaged in various kinds of activities. Cyclists and skaters enjoyed the morning breeze, chess enthusiasts concentrated hard on their next move, kids drew on the road, musicians from around the city displayed their talent.
 
 Straight out of Bandra was one such crew that drew crowds. “We are rappers and street artists who come from all over Mumbai, from all social classes. This is a great platform for us to showcase our talent and interact with our target audience,” said Nikhil Tangle, the founder of ‘Straight Out of Bandra’.
 
 On-duty police personnel seemed to have a lingering smile on their faces. “This is the time we get to interact with the public and seeing kids play on the street reminds me of the Mumbai of my childhood,” said police sub-inspector Sachin Katkar. Assistant municipal commissioner Sharad Ughade, filmmaker and   trustee Ashoke Pandit, corporators Alka Kerkar and Swapna Mhatre, Ramchandra Jadav, senior inspector of Khar police station, and Bandra MLA Ashish Shelar attended the event.
 
 “It’s very rare to see faces with expressions of freedom and excitement in this city. Today I see everybody smiling and that encourages feelings of harmony and community living,” said Ashoke Pandit.
 
 It was not just humans that reclaimed the streets, there were tonnes of canines roaming the free streets and seeking attention from passersby. 
 
 A workshop by ‘The Yoga Institute’ was another crowd-puller. “We are a 100-year-old organisation that tries to simplify yoga and bring it to the householder. We have been associated with this movement right from the beginning,” said Manoj Alim Chandani, an active member of the institute. “The Equal Streets concept gives us a sense of owning the city and that we, as citizens, need to take care of it. This will allow all stakeholders to utilise the public space and this in itself is a welcome concept,” said Ashish Shelar.
 
 
