CHANDIGARH: Tertiary-treated water supply project by Chandigarh municipal corporation for watering the parks hasn’t turned out well as the residents welfare associations (RWA) have listed out a number of complaints against it.

 Residents of various sectors said the supply of the tertiary-treated water is not regular, which affects maintenance of the parks. Also, the facility is yet to be started in some areas, even though ex-mayor   made it mandatory for all neighbourhood parks last year. Because of this too, the associations are not being able to adopt it for the maintenance of the parks in the area. 
 
 Apart from this, leakages in the tertiary-treated water supply pipelines pose problems to people visiting the parks for morning or evening walks.
 
 Manjeet Singh, a resident of Sector 51, complained that there is a serious issue of leakages in the the tertiary-treated water supply of the area. The pipelines which were laid are hence not meeting the RWAs’ requirements to manage the parks.
 
 General secretary of Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh (Foswac) J S Gogia said from past one year, they are taking up the matter with the authorities. “ We asked them to provide tertiary-treated water to all the neighbourhood parks in the city regularly to encourage the RWAs in maintaining them. But, nothing has been done,” he said. “How can the associations manage the parks in their area without proper supply of water?”
 
 President of resident welfare society, Sector 35, Amarjit Singh Sivia said there is a tertiary-treatment water supply pipeline installed in the parks of the area. “However, it is not operational everyday. Due to this, the maintenance of the green belts have become a big problem in the area. MC had implemented this project after spending crores of rupees, but the residents are not being benefitted out of it,” he said.
 
 Former mayor Asha Jaiswal said during her tenure, she made the tertiary-treated water usage mandatory in the parks and tried to get the pipelines laid across all the green belts across the city. She was surprised to know about neighbourhood parks in her own area not having the supply. “I will get the tertiary-treated water supply connected to all the parks in the area, so that the RWAs are able to adopt it for their maintenance,” said Jaswal.
 
 President of active social welfare association, Sector 19, Rajiv   said the association is interested to maintain the parks. But the problem is, only one out of eight parks has the supply of tertiary-treated water. “Maintenance is impossible without the supply. We have raised the issue with the authorities. SWe have informed them that the pipelines are installed till the road outside the park, they just have to connect it inside the park. But till date, nothing has been done,” he said.
 
 In the dock
 
 I have received complaints of irregular supply of tertiary-treated water in various parks. This is due to lack of coordination between public health department, which supplies the water and horticulture department, which maintain the parks. I will look into the matter and try to resolve it as soon as possible.
 
  | Mayor, Chandigarh MC
 
 
