CHENNAI: Just prior to the start of  's semifinal clash against   at the   here on Tuesday,   had expressed anguish with her poor health and indifferent performances in the ongoing Senior National Basketball Championship.

 
 It's well-documented that Poonam, who stands at an imposing 6'11", is fighting a mild brain tumour that was diagnosed in 2014 and suffers from headaches as a result. She put all her issues momentarily aside, though, as she notched up a match-winning 44 points for Chhattisgarh on Tuesday to take them to the final. For Chhattisgarh, India's tallest-ever woman hoopster stood up when it mattered.
 
 "I wasn't able to sleep last night thinking about this match. It was a very important game for us and I had to deliver. I was not happy with the way I had played before today. I have not been feeling well over the last one week and had headaches right through this match as well. That's why I stopped every few minutes to take a breather," Poonam said on Tuesday.
 
 While the 22-year-old India regular has been undergoing Ayurvedic treatment on a daily basis since 2013, it hasn't affected her ability to have a decisive say on games. On many occasions on Tuesday, Karnataka had as many as two to three players marking her and yet she turned out to be the difference between the two sides. Encouragingly, she played the entire duration of 40 minutes for her side.
 
 Asked about the impact she made, Poonam shrugs it off as no big deal. "44 points is nothing great for me. I think the maximum I have scored is 67 points in a junior match. Karnataka can use how many ever players they want to counter me. That does not matter. When I am feeling good, it's difficult to stop me," she added, exuding confidence.
 
 Going forward, Chhattisgarh coach   is optimistic that the youngster, who originally hails from Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, can be cured completely. "In the initial stages of her treatment, the size of the tumour was 3.6mm. Now, it's come down to 2.1mm. It's gradually improving," he informed.
 
 For the time being, Poonam's brilliance has given the Chhattisgarh women a shot at their third national title since winning their first in 2014. While Poonam has been at the heart of their emergence, it wouldn't have been possible without a group of young girls daring to dream. It's the kind of story that prompted actor-producer Lara Dutta to formulate plans of making a film back in 2015. Coach Patel informed that the movie is on track. "The script for the movie has been completed. The shooting is scheduled to start in March. It will be a great initiative to highlight the story of the Chhattisgarh team," a proud Patel stated.
 
  
  
 
