PATIALA: Fifty years of  ,  , saw the school’s alumni across generations coming together on its sprawling campus to relive old memories on Friday. While some shared stories of their school days, others were struck by the changes the school and its campus have undergone all these years. However, one thing bound all who attended the event, even if they were decades apart in age — the Yadavindrian spirit. 

 Colonel H S Attarri (retd) reached the school wearing a   medal won during his school days. Colonel   studied at Aitchison College, Lahore, before Partition and contniued his studies at YPS when it into existence in 1948.
 
 The great grandson of late General Sham Singh Attariwala, a general in the Sikh army of Lahore Durbar,   said he had been working for restoring the heritage of Punjab and recently got “India Gate” constructed in Amritsar. “Maharaja Bhupinder Singh himself awarded me this gold medal. I am proud of it, so I decided to come wearing it,” he said.
 
  (retd), who won a gallantry award for his heroics in the 1965 war, was also present at the almuni meet. “I spent only a year in the school after I joined in 1949. Our classroom was the first one along the stadium. I have met one of my six chaps and I have come here after more than 68 years. There are a lot of changes in the building of the school, and the culture as well has improved. Looking at the boarding house and the stadium all my memories are now alive,”   said.
 
 Col Attari, however, expressed concern over schools these days not concentrating on buildings their students’ character. “Schooling are the roots that build a person’s character. It doesn’t matter if the school is having a large building and other facilities. The kind of education being imparted to children these days needs attention,” he said. “More than theoretical education, schools need to concentrate on character-building.”
 
 Sharing his memories of Aitchison College and YPS, he said people on both sides of the border shared love for on another. “I blame petty politics for hatred between the two nations. At the 125th celebration of Aitchison College, they invited us. Even CM’s brother   attended it,” he said.
 
 
