The   recently hosted a special screening of  's documentary 'Raising The Bar' on   in Delhi. The documentary is an inspiring tale of six youngsters with Down syndrome from India and  , who met at the World Down Syndrome Congress in Chennai.

 
 
  
   , one of the kids who has been featured in the documentary, with her mother Cate Sayers, who is a co-producer of the film
 
 Apart from embassy officials, Deputy CM  , school principals and teachers were also present at the screening. While everyone supported the idea of making such documentaries, Onir added that apart from documentaries, we should have characters with Down syndrome in mainstream movies too. He said, "Films are a very strong medium. I want characters with Down syndrome in films, as that's how more people would accept them."
 
  
  Manish Sisodia, Deputy CM
 
  
 Onir, who also interviewed parents and youngsters in India and Australia, said that in the process of making the documentary, he realised that India lacks the support system to bring up kids with Down syndrome. 
 
  
  
 
  Harinder Sidhu, Australian High Commissioner, said, "When I saw the trailer of the documentary, I was incredibly impressed.The UN estimates that in India at least 18 million people live with disability. Also, around 30,000 babies are born with Down syndrome every year in the country. This documentary is close to my heart because two of my cousins have Down syndrome. Their journey has been a little bit of my journey. All such children have an enormous potential and if they are given opportunities and love, like every other child, then we as a society will get richer."
 
  
  Chris Elstoft, Deputy Head of Mission, Australian High Commission, and fillmmaker Onir
 
 
  
 
 Priyanka Singh, a teacher who attended the screening, said, "It is an inspiring story. I really liked how Onir connected stories from India and Melbourne together."
 
  
  Devanshi, who was featured in the film, and Mitu Bhowmick Lange, one of the co-producers 
 
  Another attendee, SM Khanna, said, "We must make sure that this documentary reaches out to as many people as possible. We are not an inclusive society and such documentaries will make people aware."
 
  
  
 
 
