BHOPAL: Refusing to budge from their stand, over 100   youths from across the state were back at   on Sunday to stage protest, a day after they were arrested and released later. On Satuday, four of them, who were on an indefinite fast, were admitted to   and the rest were taken to the Central Jail from where they were released. 

 The visually-impaired youths are staging a dharna for close to a month in support of their demand for job, better educational facilities and pension. Making their intent clear, they said their agitation would not end till their demands were met. The agitation is being carried out under the banner of “Drishtihin Berojgar Sangharsh Samiti Madhya Pradesh” for the past 28 days. The protesters insist instead of doing something on its own to improve their condition, the state government was not even executing the order of the high court. The order, according to them, directed the social justice department in 2013 to fill 22,668 posts with disabled people since they had not been extended the benefit of reservation despite a 6% reservation in place for them. 
 
 “We are not asking for special favours from government. We simply want order of the Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court should be executed in letter and spirit. The social justice department was appointed the nodal department to execute the order, but state government was defying the court,” said Sanjay Yadav, a protestor from  , who is a post-graduate in Hindi literature. He alleged that some posts were filled with disabled persons following court order, but fake disability certificates were used to give job to handpicked rather than to genuine persons. He demanded a probe to find out who were given jobs against the posts advertised for the disabled. Another protestor said posts of contract teachers are being filled in plenty over years, but 6% posts, which should have been reserved for disabled persons, were never kept reserved for them. 
 
 Many among agitators were Industrial Training Institute pass-outs and post-graduate diploma holders in computer application, but without jobs. They said Rs 300 allowance given to visually-impaired under the Social Security Pension Scheme was pittance and it should be raised to least Rs 1,500 per month.
 
 When asked how the state government responded to their demands, they said minister of state for cooperative and gas relief Vishwa Sarang visited them once and assured their demands would be sympathetically looked into. “That was about it. And till their demands are me they won’t call off their agitation,” they said.
 
 
