Manvendra Singh Gohil, who has always been vocal about the LGBT cause in India, was in Ahmedabad to talk about the acceptance and awareness of the LGBT rights recently. As AT caught up with the gay rights activist, Manvendra opened up about the LGBT Centre he is going to come up with, people’s approach towards him, how life has changed for him after the   and   and a lot more. Excerpts from a chat: 

 Has there been a change in the mindset in recent years so far as the LGBT community is concerned? 
 People are going to be homophobic, come what may, and one cannot change that. But this is more about how you try and explain to a person about the suffering of the community members. When we still don’t encourage sex education in schools, how can we expect homosexuality to be accepted. But with the influence of various western cultures, now one can see some positive impact on the acceptance of LGBT in India. There are parents who are coming together in support of their kids, so gradually, we can see some positive changes happening around us.
 
 What according to you, are the ways one can spread awareness and acceptance about the LGBT community?
 The best way is to have an open dialogue with youngsters on LGBT issues. It is important that colleges and other educational institutes take initiative, discuss about these issues and make students aware. There have been students who have come to our office to help us in our cause. They document things, make a film on this subject and show it to people to spread awareness. This is a practice not only happening in colleges but also in schools, which is a positive sign for the future.
 
 How is your family supporting you in everything that you are doing?
 My family has always been a strong support system. Even though my mother is still not very comfortable, my father has been very supportive. In fact he laid the foundation of LGBT Centre. Some of my relatives thought of me as a criminal, but they are the same people who see value in me now. After going to the Oprah Winfrey show thrice and Keeping Up With the Kardashians, my nephews and nieces want selfies with me and want to show off to their friends, as I am a celebrity now. 
 
 You are coming up with an LGBT Centre in India. Tell us something about it.
 The work is in progress. It is going to be the first ever resource center in India for the members of the LGBT community. Not just that, the center will also be for those who support the community and their cause. As we believe in being inclusive, we want the supporters to take benefits of the centre and that will also help us bring more acceptance and support from the society. We have started raising funds for it through various campaigns on different platforms and various people have come forward to help us including the erstwhile prince of Kapurthala with whom I share close family relationship. 
 
 How is the centre going to function?
 People from the LGBT community as well as others can come and stay at the center. Most people face rejection and boycott from the society after they come out, and that’s when we come into the picture and give them a safe space to stay.
 
 
