GHAZIABAD: Police are relying on forensic test reports to investigate the death of a   in their Indirapuram flat after Holi celebrations and have ruled out any   in the case.

 As the postmortem report has been inconclusive, the couple’s viscera have been sent to the state forensic lab in Agra for tests. Police sources said it would take at least a month for the test results to arrive.
 
 Hours after extended Holi celebrations with family and neighbours, Neeraj Singhania, an executive at a cellular services company, and his wife Ruchi Singhania, who worked with an MNC, were found dead in the bathroom of their Indirapuram flat last Friday.
 
 Neeraj, 38, a deputy general manager with Matrix Cellular (International) Services Limited, and his wife Ruchi, 35, who worked with a US-based IT company in Noida, lived with his parents, younger brother and sister in a 3BHK flat in Indirapuram’s Gyan Khand 1. They have a five-year-old daughter.
 
 SSP HN Singh said on Monday statements of family members and neighbours had been recorded and they did not suggest any foul play. The officer also negated an apprehension that the couple could have died of suffocation, saying the bathroom where they were found dead had enough ventilation.
 
 “The close relatives of both Neeraj and Ruchi were present in the flat when the couple were found dead. No foul play has come to the fore as of now. The forensic report will hopefully explain the reason behind their mysterious death. I have written to the Agra lab to expedite the process,” Singh said.
 
 The police have not received any complaint in the case so far.
 
 Neeraj and Ruchi had celebrated Holi through the day on the roof of their flat and retired to their room around 6pm. When they did not respond to repeated knocks on the door around 9.30pm, Neeraj’s younger brother looked through a slit in the window and found his sister-in-law’s leg protruding from the bathroom.
 
 Sensing something amiss, the family broke open the door. The couple were found lying on the floor of their bathroom without any clothes. Strips of tablets to treat blood pressure lay strewn around the bodies.
 
 They couple were declared dead on arrival by a private hospital. The police were subsequently informed.
 
 
