WASHINGTON: One of the highest-ranking Indian-origin executives in the US automotive industry had been fired for “inappropriate behaviour”.

 Raj Nair,   Motor Company’s president of North America, resigned after the company said a recent review found that “certain behaviour” by him violated its code of conduct.
 
 “We made this decision after a thorough review and careful consideration,” Ford CEO Jim Hackett said in a statement. “Ford is deeply committed to providing and nurturing a safe and respectful culture and we expect our leaders to fully uphold these values,” he added.
 
 The company did not say what the inappropriate behaviour was and provided no other details of the incident or incidents, but a slew of prominent Americans in the entertainment industry and corporate world have been felled by allegations of predatory sexual behaviour.
 
 On his part, Nair, 54, confirmed he had slipped up. “I sincerely regret that there have been instances where I have not exhibited leadership behaviours consistent with the principles that the Company and I have always espoused,” he said in a statement released by Ford after being eased out. “I continue to have the utmost faith in the people of Ford Motor Company and wish them continued success in the future.”
 
 Nair has been the head of Ford’s North America division since June 2017, and before that, he served as Ford’s head of global product development and chief technical officer. He first joined Ford in 1987 as an engineer, according to company records.
 
 Although Ford has had several high-ranking executives of Indian-origin, including  , whose work on catalytic converters, emissions and 53 other patented technologies won him Presidential and national honours, Nair was said to be one of the highest ranking people of colour in the auto industry.
 
 Auto industry analysts described him as a “rising star” who was associated with several Ford launches and successes in recent years.
 
 The St-Louis–born Nair grew up in Edwardsville, Illinois, where his father  , originally from Trichur, became dean at Southern Illinois University after emigrating from India in 1962. The young Nair said in one interview that his father persuaded him to enroll at the Kettering University (then General Motors Institute) in Flint, Michigan, after recognising his aptitude and also potential opportunities in the auto field, although he himself was a biologist.
 
 “I was one of the kids that was always taking things apart. If it had a motor, I was interested in it,” Nair said in a Kettering alumni feature some years ago. “My dad thought Kettering would be a good programme for me because I was interested in engineering and racing cars.”
 
 Nair joined Ford in 1987 as a Body and Assembly Operations launch engineer and held various positions on more than 11 vehicle programmes in 13 assembly plants, going on to launch Ford’s Fiesta, Focus, Transit and Mondeo in Europe. As vice-president of Engineering for Product Development, he oversaw all engineering for car, truck and SUV vehicles for the Ford and Lincoln brands. He was promoted as Ford’s president of North America in June 2017, with responsibility to lead all aspects of Ford’s North American business units.
 
