GURUGRAM: Scores of   and their workers took to the streets in Gurugram city on Tuesday to protest against the government for not implementing its promise of minimum wages. 

 The protesting workers alleged that the government was tinkering with the labour laws and pointed fingers at the recent scrapping of the pension scheme. The national heath mission ( ), accredited social health activist ( ) and anganwadi workers participated in the protests.
 
 Protesters gathered at Kamla Nehru Park in Gurugram city at 10am on Tuesday. They took out a   at 10.30am and moved towards the mini secretariat, volunteering for arrests by policemen. 
 
 The protesters said the move was part of their “jail bharo andolan”. “We volunteered for the arrests,” said Anil, general secretary (Gurugram) for All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), adding, “We have the Asha and midday meal programme as well as anganwadi workers with us, today.”
 
 The protesters said that the police arrested them at the mini secretariat and put them in buses headed to the   park, which allegedly served as a “makeshift detention centre”. 
 
 They were arrested in groups of 10-15 and the buses went back and forth between the mini secretariat and the Tau Devi Lal park, said the protesters. 
 
 “We were kept there till 3 pm,” Lata, a worker from the government’s midday meal programme told TOI. “The police came, noted down our names and then, let us go.”
 
 “The government is meddling with the labour laws and this is unacceptable to us,” said Satvir Singh of Centre of Indian Trade Unions ( ), one of the bodies that was protesting on Tuesday. “They recently shut down the pension scheme and they are restricting the operations of labour unions. The government is also reneging on its commitment to implement the policy of minimum wages of Rs 18,000,” added Singh.
 
 Speaking to TOI, sub-divisional magistrate Bharat Bhushan confirmed the sequence of events but said that the police were overseeing the detentions of the workers and he only visited the spot later.
 
