Deep inside the forests of the Western Ghats in   – on the Goa-Karnataka border – lies a village called  . Not very many know of this village that hosts one of the most unique, spectacular and spine-chilling festivals in Goa.
 On every full moon night of the last month of the Hindu calendar, people from the neighbouring villages and towns flock to Zarme for   – a festival celebrated in the memory of the four thieves that were misidentified and beheaded by the villagers here centuries ago.
  
  
 
  
  THE STORY BEHIND CHOROTSAV
  
  It is believed that centuries ago, a pathway in the village of Zarme lead to  , connecting both   and Goa, and making it a popular route for traders.
  Legend has it that on one fateful day, six brothers of varying ages were caught there by the villagers of Zarme, and wrongly labelled as thieves, since they were carrying a precious stone with them . The villagers presumed they had stolen it, and hastily punished each of the brothers – beheading the four elder ones, and torturing the younger ones to death.
  When the parents of the brothers came looking for them, and realised their sons were killed, they wailed to the forest deities, asking them for justice. Meanwhile, the villagers realised their fault in killing the innocent men, and before the forest gods could punish them – or worse, a calamity struck the village – they began their sacred rituals to beg for forgiveness.
  From that time onwards, the remorseful villagers have celebrated Chorotsav to honour the innocent men who were killed on that day.
  The evening begins with loud drum beats, with 15-20 villagers dancing around the open space in the centre, while chanting slogans and songs. Two poles, with a seat on them, are erected on the ground, and two adolescent boys are made to sit on each, as the play based on the story of the four brothers begins.
  
  
 
  
  Within a few minutes, a couple – dressed in traditional costumes – enacts the role of the brothers’ parents, who are searching for their sons. They question the people of the village and call out to the deities. The play includes dialogues and musical numbers, with traditional musical instruments playing in the background.
  That’s when the curtain lining the space close to the temple falls, and the audience gets a closer look of the eight beheaded chors, buried in the ground in different angles. While some men are buried with their face underground and only their bodies showing, others are buried with only their heads on the surface. The scene lasts for a very short while before the curtains are drawn up again.
  Satu Majik, another elder from the village, explains how they do it – “We have to depict four beheaded men. However, we use eight men to create the scene. We do not disclose our secret and only a few people in the village know of it.”
  
 
  
  “We have been putting up this play year after year, ever since I can remember. It’s a folklore initiated by our forefathers, which we are carrying forward in the exact same way as it was passed down to us in. Some of the details have been lost though. For example, we don’t know where the robbers originally came from,” says Rajaram Gawas, an elderly local.
  After the play, the villagers, some dressed like horses, dance while circling the maadi erected in front of the temple. A few elders join in to sing songs, while circling one of the boys sitting on the pole, before he is brought down and carried into the temple.
  “There isn’t a significance to each and every ritual we follow on this day. This is all just folklore passed down by our ancestors, and we just keep it alive by enacting it each year as is,” Satu tells us. Rajaram adds, “Later, during the night, we will also enact the death of the wives of the four thieves, while in the next seven days, we will celebrate some other festivals in the village.”
