LUDHIANA: Waking up from their slumber, the Ludhiana municipal corporation and the fire department is going to tighten noose around defaulters, who have not made any fire safety arrangements nor have taken any no objection certificate (NoC) from the latter, by starting a survey-cum-fire audit in the city. By next week, the fire brigade will kick off the survey and the drive will start with hospitals, which will be checked by the designated teams. The officials have been told to seal the building in case there is no arrangement for fire prevention and heavy penalty will also be imposed on unit owners. 

 The step has been taken following fire and building collapse incident in Amarson Polymers in   on November 20, 2017, in which 16 people had died, including nine firemen. The municipal commissioner   had earlier requested the director of the local bodies department for a fire audit but as they did not receive any reply, now   will do it at its level.
 
 A list has been prepared by the MC officials regarding number of educational institutes, hospitals, malls and hotels where first all notices will be served. However, the MC had also sought a list of factories from the industry department, but it is yet to receive the same. As a result, it will conduct the survey on its own. The officials are, however, silent about the units running in the industrial areas and semi-industrial areas. 
 
 A meeting was conducted on Tuesday wherein officials concerned have been asked to start serving notices to the defaulters for making appropriate fire safety arrangements and then inspection will be conducted on unit premises. Through this survey it will become mandatory for the commercial establishments to take an NoC from the fire brigade department. 
 
 While confirming the development, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said that the fire brigade teams would conduct the survey and they had been told to seal those buildings where there were no safety arrangements and in case partial arrangements had been made then owners will get some time to make required changes. He added that they would also recover NoC charges from the defaulters. 
 
 Notably, during the drive the fire officials will also check water arrangements, extinguishers, sprinklers, water pressure and proper fire exit points in the buildings. 
 
 
 
 
 Though civic officials are planning to take action against defaulters, fire officials are silent about the survey in government buildings especially zonal offices of the MC and the fire department buildings where there are hardly any arrangements for prevention of any such incident. Government buildings, including the   office, MC offices and other departments, have never obtained NoC from the fire department. Now, will the government departments be told to make arrangements as the survey begins next week?. When contacted, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said that they would first make arrangements in MC offices and would also take up the issue with the deputy commissioner for arrangements in other government offices.
 
 
