LUCKNOW: A local court on Saturday sent ruling party MLA   to sevenday CBI custody for interrogation in connection with the   rape case. In a related development during the day, the investigating agency also arrested  , one of the co-accused persons in the case. A CBI team brought him from Unnao to Lucknow at 4.30pm.
 
 In the police complaint lodged by the rape survivor’s mother, Shashi Singh is accused of luring her to MLA Sengar.
 
 Sengar was produced before the remand magistrate under tight security. He was brought in an Ambassador car with two CBI officials, while another vehicle with four others followed them to the court. On reaching court, Sengar said, “I have faith in God”. The court first accepted his judicial custody till April 28 and then, on CBI’s plea, allowed them his custody. Additional chief judicial magistrate Sunil Kumar said starting Saturday evening, when the MLA was produced in court, CBI custody remand would continue till 10am on April 21. The central agency’s investigating officer, deputy superintendent RR Tripathi, had sought a 14-day custody of Sengar, stating that they wanted to recover evidence, including clothes, which were key in the case. Sengar’s lawyer   was present with his team during the proceedings but did not contest the remand.
 
 The judge retired to his chamber where he readied his order for more than an hour and then pronounced his decision. The court permitted Sengar to consult his lawyer for 15 minutes on each day of the remand, either at 10am or 6pm.
 
 The CBI said that it would reconstruct the scene of crime and bring the survivor and the MLA face-to-face, besides visiting the crime spot. Earlier in the day, after holding MLA Sengar in its custody for over 23 hours, CBI sleuths took him to Dr   for a medical check-up at 3.10am. Sengar was crying throughout while being taken to the hospital. The central agency had formed an eight-member team for Sengar’s questioning. Officials told TOI that the same set of questions were asked to the MLA by two persons after every one hour. He was asked to narrate the sequence of events and his location at the time of the crime. Sources said that Sengar kept saying that he was unable to recall the incidents exactly now. CBI officials said that the six cops of Makhi police station would be interrogated again.
 
