BHOPAL: Residents huffed and puffed as the capital city recorded 43.1 degree Celsius — the season’s highest temperature on Saturday, which was three degrees more than the normal mark.

 
  
 Scorching conditions gripped Bhopal till late afternoon hours, due to blowing of dry hot winds in the absence of any moisture incursion.
 
 But, weathermen says this is just the beginning. Temperatures in Bhopal and other parts of the state will rise further. Before Saturday, the highest temperature of the season was 42.8 degrees Celsius on April 28.
 
 Officials at the Meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said there is trough from   to Jharkhand that is passing through  . It may lead to thundery development in certain parts of the state, but will not give any respite from the hot and sultry weather.
 
 The   website predicts 43 degrees all of this week, till May 11. It’s best to take precautions and avoid stepping out in the afternoon if you can. It will feel even more scorching for those out on the road because of the heat radiated by tarmac.
 
 The minimum temperature in Bhopal was recorded at 25.4 degree Celsius on Saturday, which was at the normal mark. , while the wind direction in the city was westerly and the average wind speed was 18 kilometres per hour.
 
 The highest temperature in the state on Saturday was recorded at 44 degree Celsius in   and Shajapur, while Khajuraho and   recorded traces of rain during the day.
 
 In Sunday’s forecast for Bhopal, Met officials said there would be cloudy sky in the evening, while the weather would be largely dry during rest of the day. The day and night temperature would be around 43 degree and 26 degree Celsius respectively, while the average wind speed will be around 22 kmph.
 
 Met officials said there is a possibility of rain and thundershowers in some parts of MP, including Sheopurkalan, Morena, Bhind, Gwalior, Datia, Shivpuri, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Panna, Satna and Rewa, while the weather would be largely dry over other places in the state.
 
