NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s longest corridor, Pink Line — which connects all existing corridors — was split into two because of a land issue between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri station. After a long drawn out battle, with residents who were to be relocated raising various objections, the issue has finally been resolved.

  is in the process of getting additional land which will facilitate construction of quarters for all the affected families, clearing the way for building a 255-metre long viaduct and making the entire line operational.
 
 
  
  
 The 58.6-km line, from Majlis Park in the north and Shiv Vihar in north-east, is like a loop. The stalemate at Trilokpuri’s Block 15, prevented DMRC from constructing a crucial stretch. So, it was decided that one section would function from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket 1, with trains reversing from this spot, and the other from Shiv Vihar to Trilokpuri station, with the train reversing in the other direction. There was a gap of 1.5 km in between.
 
 “Trilokpuri is a densely populated residential area and land was needed for construction of 10 pillars to build a 255-metre long viaduct,” said a DMRC spokesperson. “The occupants of 108 plots in Block 15 are to be relocated to make this land available for the construction.” Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board had allotted 11,138 square metres, comprising three plots, between Block 15 and 18, for relocation of the families. The rehabilitation work, however, could not be taken up due to resistance from the residents.
 
 The residents filed a petition in the Delhi high court but the court ruled in favour of DMRC. Barely had DMRC started the relocation work that some residents filed a case in the National Green Tribunal claiming that the land allotted to DMRC was a part of the green belt. 
 
 However, DDA clarified that the land use of two plots was recreational and of one residential. DMRC approached DDA to change the land use of the two plots from recreational to residential. When things started looking up, DDA put a spanner in the works by insisting that the right of way in front of the plots should be 30 metres wide. This resulted in some land being taken from the plots meant for relocation. On the rest, only 66 quarters could be constructed with no land left for 42 quarters. However, DMRC is now being allotted more land.
 
 “The process of relocating these occupants is going on and 66 quarters have been constructed at one location while land has been received for constructing rest of the quarters at another location close by. “Construction of viaduct between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Trilokpuri metro station will start after the relocation is over,” said the spokesperson.
 
