MADURAI: A Sri Lankan woman refugee has filed a case before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court seeking action against the Q branch police alleging that they have been threatening her ever since she refused to pay a bribe.

 T   staying at Mandapam refugee camp filed the case. She alleged that Q branch inspector Kennedy is continuously harassing her demanding bribe. When she refused to give, he started threatening her over phone by saying that a false case would be filed against her and family members, which she had recorded in her mobile. The inspector who came to know about it, then tortured her, against which she filed a case before the high court bench seeking police protection.
 
 She further claimed that the inspector who could not tolerate her approaching the court instigated Mandapam police inspector and both of them on December 28 last trespassed into her house and started videographing and photographing the family members. Besides, the photograph of the entire family was published in newspapers saying that an arrest warrant was pending in a Sri Lankan court.
 
 To defame and victimise the entire family, police adopted third degree methods of police atrocities. As per rules laid down in CrPC, protection of women from harassment, she should have been given prior notice and should have been investigated by the women police personnel. 
 
 Besides, the Supreme Court, National Women’s Commission and   have issued proper guidelines for investigation of women and children. But, those were deliberately violated by the police. They committed criminal intimidation, trespass, defamation and harassment, the petitioner said.
 
 The   have been insisting that human dignity and other civil and political rights of refugees have to be respected and should not be violated. 
 
 Due to their action, the morale of children and their education have been ruined. The issue was taken to the notice of the special deputy collector of Mandapam refugee camp and the superintendent of police of   district on December 2 by demanding action against inspector Kennedy and Mandapam police inspector.
 
  But, there was no action on their part, she said.
 
 
