“My trade is such that I source raw material from the Atlantic and   oceans free of cost. The energy used in production is also free of cost. The machinery involved costs just Rs 150. But my end product is indispensable, irrespective of community, culture, caste or creed.”

  Bhobe, a sprightly octogenarian and notary by profession, juggles your grey cells as he introduces you to his traditional occupation. Nestled amid undulating fields in Nerul, low-lying, rectangular niches hold small portions of the world’s oceans. Up above, the flaming afternoon sun guzzles this water up to saturation point while a few men use large, rake-like contraptions to separate the crystallised substance from the fluid and draw it out. And that’s when you realise how the truly indispensable end product, salt, comes to be.
 
 
  
 
 A family of small landlords, the Bhobes have indulged in salt extraction since the Portuguese era. Their cluster of saltpans spans several thousand square metres and is the only one in Nerul that has withstood the winds of change. Fifteen others in the village have long died unceremonious deaths.
 
 While Govind’s father, the late  , preferred leasing out the saltpans and drawing a rent, Govind was keen on operating the business himself. So, when he eventually took over the reins in 1963, he became “owner, producer and seller; three-in-one,” as he puts it.
 
 Made using 100% natural, non-polluting methods, 15kg of such salt sells for a paltry Rs 70. But despite it going this cheap, the product has few takers, what with the ever-growing demand for processed, iodised salt.
 
 The lack of willing workmen is another obstacle. A labour-intensive job, salt extraction requires dedication and industriousness, qualities that are hard to come by among Goan workers. “My labour force comes from   and I go all out to ensure they are happy, else they too, may lose interest in the job,” Govind says.
 
 The odds are stacked up against him, but the 81-year-old, who has also taught in several institutions, has no intention of giving up the trade just yet. “I could have easily chosen to fall back on my income from law and teaching, but I have a passion for this business,” Govind says. His children are gainfully employed and haven’t shown an inclination to carry on this legacy, he laments and adds, “I don’t know what the future holds, but until I can, I will do my best to keep this trade running.”
 
 
