Bengaluru: All the schools in the state will have to put in place various measures to ensure safety of children from sexual offences, disasters, health issues, incidents occurring due to transportation etc in six months. 

 The education department has notified draft regulations to amend the   Educational Institutions Act-1995. Among the highlights are points to be followed while implementing a child protection policy as well as steps to be taken to ensure proper infrastructure, cyber security and disaster management within schools.
 
  Each school must prepare a student protection plan and take steps to create a safe learning environment for students. Schools have to prepare monthly reports on cases registered with the   and action taken. The guidelines list five sections where safety protocols need to be added. While implementing the Child Protection Policy is mandatory now, schools must advocate a ban on corporal punishments, bullying, discrimination or prejudice.
 
  
 Features of the child protection committee must be displayed on the school premises in a way that it is noticed by parents, children and visitors. Awareness should be created on the Special   Police Unit (SJPU), the childline (1098), child welfare commissions, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) and district child protection units (DCPU). A child counsellor, children’s clubs, a child safety checklist and an updated list of contacts of parents and guardians have also been mandated. 
 
 
 
 
 All schools must be disabled friendly. This includes sensitizing teachers and bus drivers while taking care of such students. The infrastructure facilities like classrooms, play areas, toilets, drinking water, labs etc. must be provided in the school as per the standards of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD).
 
 Schools must ensure that all assistive aids and appliances that are provided by the school are in good condition. When in emergency evacuation drills, special attention must be given to these students by teachers and other staff.
 
 
 
 
 A suggestion/complaint box must be placed on the school premises to facilitate children and parents to raise issues regarding child protection and safety. The child protection committee must review feedback and ensure that the complainants are not singled out, harassed or victimized.
 
 
 
 
 The schools must give students the lowdown on various acts like the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences, Juvenile Justice, income tax, Indian Penal Code, and more to create awareness on child protection policies as well as cyber security.
 
 
 
 
 It's good to see the department finally acting on the child protection policy, something that should have been done when the policy first came out in 2016. However, the road map ahead must be followed in the right manner by ensuring quality training and workshops. Many schools still have no knowledge about Juvenile Justice Act, POCSO and others which can't be taught through mere powerpoint presentations. We hope the department will consult experts and resource persons while carrying out training across all schools, said  , director,   which aides the government with training and implementation of the child protection policy .
 
 
