In the latest episode of  , we see Bau ji talking to Devyaani. He says that Dhanraaj Ji cannot come since shops are getting demolished. Naitik hears this and tells them to forget about all of this for a while. They get ready to go attend Naira's performance. Naira also comes out.

 Baisaa asks about Kartik. They all pray before leaving the house. Naira hopes everything goes well for Kartik and her.
 
 Naira gets a call from Kartik while he gets ready for the meeting. He wishes her good luck. She tells him that the function would start at 5.
 
 They reach the academy. We see a truck approaching there. A man comes and says the demolition would start from the dance academy building.
 
 Dadi asks Kartik to not worry. She tells him to finish his meeting and come. Dadi asks Aryan to take them there. He is upset about missing office.
 
 Naira gets a call from Manish and tells her that the meeting has been postponed. He tells her that if Kartik knows of this, he will create a scene and Manish will lose his trust in him. He tells her that her performance was important but they need him right now.
 
  
  
 Kartik gets to know that the meeting venue has been postponed. He is shocked. Naira sends him a picture of herself dressed up and asks him to come soon. Dadi and other members of the family reach the venue. We also see Priyanka who tells Naitik to inform the family.
 
 Meanwhile, talks of demolition continue. The notice had already been sent before and hence they cannot delay it any longer.
 
 We see Kartik reach the venue. He meets Naitik and tells him that the meeting would take place at the academy. He tells her it was all Naira's plan. Naira is getting ready. She dreams about Kartik being there.
 
 Dadi comes there and gives her blessings. She is about to inform Naira that Kartik is not going to be there when Naira tells her about the new plan. She is upset. Naira says that she doesn't want Kartik to suffer because of her. Dadi goes.
 
 Naksh goes out to get something out from the car and just then he sees the demolition men. 
 
