Having a daughter, you are bound to watch a lot of cartoons and movies about Disney princesses - Rapunzel,  , Aurora, Snow White, Little Mermaid and so on. Though I can't really blame my daughter alone; even I grew up reading and listening to these stories.

 A look into her toy room and you'd find Cinderella bag, Rapunzel lunch bag, Snowhite and Aurora dolls and figurines, Jasmine play mat and much more. Not only that. Even our bedtime stories were about them.
 
 But when my daughter turned 4 and demanded a Cinderella cake for her birthday, something churned inside me. When I dissuaded her, she asked for a Rapunzel cake as her second choice. That's when I realised that this fantasy world of princesses needs to end. She needed better role models.
 
 So that night when she demanded listening to Rapunzel or Cinderella story at bedtime, I told her - "Did I ever tell you, I don't like these stories at all?" That shocked her. The mommy who’d been happily narrating these stories so far was suddenly telling her she didn't like them. I continued, "If I was in the place of Cinderella, I would not have waited for the Prince to rescue me. And if I was Rapunzel, I would have done something on my own to escape the situation. Don't you think?" She nodded and waited for me to go on. "See, Cinderella could have any time walked out of the house and be free and happy but she chose to stay and be miserable. Isn't that stupid? That was entirely her fault." She added, "Yes mumma. And even Rapunzel could have cut her own hair so the evil witch could never reach her." "Exactly," I said. "Or mumma she could have cut her hair and used them to escape from the tower!" " Absolutely," I added with delight. "They all wanted to be happy but they waited for male figures to make that possible for them- which in my opinion is STUPID."
 
 When my daughter told me that a certain boy in her class bullies her and she doesn’t know what to do, I snapped at her and said, ‘Fight back’. Her instant reply was, ‘But he is a boy and he is stronger than me.” It broke my heart. It is surprising and shocking at the same time that these stories somewhere tell them it is okay to be the damsel in distress, when it is absolutely not.
 
 But then I started noticing a change. When the bedtime stories stopped, she spoke more about characters like Moana - who fought her own battle and saved the world and her tribe from perishing. She was brave and independent and that’s what made her the modern day princess. Or Merida from Brave who showed determination and strength to do what she wanted. Mind you – these two princesses didn’t even have a love interest. They both were fierce and independent in their own right.
 
 Have you ever thought how these popular princesses make our daughters believe that they need to have a particular shape to be called ‘princess’ ‘pretty’ or ‘beautiful’ and in the process they forget to focus on more important characteristics like strength and determination. But I could see things changing at my place and when it was my daughter's 5th birthday and I asked her about her birthday theme - she gestured sailing a boat and said, 'Moana'.
 
 
