MUMBAI: After IndiGo last week grounded 3 A320neo (new engine option) aircraft in the wake of the European aviation regulator’s order that all such aircraft in which both Pratt and Whitney (PW) engines were of a certain faulty category be grounded immediately, it has emerged that India has at least 11 A320neos where one engine is flawed. Airbus 320neos are two-engine aircraft. TOI had reported this alarming development on Sunday. 

  Airbus said in response to a query on Monday that India has 14 A320neo aircraft in all where either both PW engines or one is of the said category of PW1100 engines.
 
 If one engine fails, a twin-engine aircraft can safely land with the other operative engine. But aviation experts said an aircraft that starts off with one engine that’s unreliable was not their idea of air safety.
 
 A senior commander said: “On a three- or four-engine aircraft, having one unreliable engine is ok. But not on a two-engine aircraft like A320neo.”
 
 As of now, 113 PW-powered A320neo aircraft are flying with 18 operators around the world, said Airbus. Statistics from Indian carriers show 45 out of these are in India. IndiGo is the lead operator with 29 (excluding the 3 grounded A320neos), followed by GoAir with 13. 
 
 Last Friday, the   (EASA) issued an emergency directive following several occurrences of engine failure reported on A320neos fitted with a certain category of PW engines. The directive said this category of PW engines was more susceptible to failure and so A320 neos with both engines belonging to this category should be grounded. But A320 neos in which only one engine was of this category have been allowed to operate. 
 
 Whether the 14 aircraft mentioned by Airbus include the 3 grounded by IndiGo is not clear. Currently, how many A320 neos are being operated by IndiGo and GoAir in which one of two PW engines is faulty is not known. Both airlines did not respond to a query sent by TOI.
 
 On Monday, PW said 43 engines installed on 32 A320neo aircraft worldwide come under the affected category. Of this, 21 aircraft have one faulty engine from the faulty category, and 11 aircraft have two. It did not specify how many of these are in India.
 
 Capt Mohan Ranganathan, an air safety expert said, “Knowing that there are many obstacles, especially in Mumbai, that are higher than permitted, flights with unreliable engine raise a big question mark.” 
 
 When told that EASA had okayed operation of A320neos with one faulty engine, Capt Ranganathan said, “This is fine in a perfect system where rules and standards are conformed to and not in a case where reliability of one of two engines is questionable.” 
 
 Airbus said of the total 113 aircraft worldwide, some 10% have both engines affected. “This means a minimum of one engine needs to be changed on these aircraft. The rest of the fleet is safe to fly as per guidelines issued by   and EASA,” it said.
 
 “About 30% of 113 aircraft in operation worldwide are equipped with either both or one engine affected. The speed and thoroughness with which this issue is being addressed by all stakeholders (authorities, manufacturers, suppliers) demonstrate that aviation is one of the highest regulated industries. There is no compromise on safety. It demonstrates that the global airworthiness processes work and ensure continued safe operation of aircraft,” it added.
 
 PW said the latest problem relates to “a knife edge seal” on the engine’s high pressure compressor. It’s the latest in a long series of problems the PW 1100 engines manufactured for A320 neos have been throwing up since their introduction into the global airline fleet two years ago. Till now, there have been problems with its oil chips, combustion chamber, gear system, bearings, plus other issues like high engine vibration, all leading to engine failures. “In history this kind of thing is not known, that one after another different components should fail,” said the senior commander. Airbus has currently stopped deliveries of A320 neos fitted with PW engines.
 
 InterGlobe Aviation Ltd, which operates IndiGo, reported a 56% rise in Q3 profit%. Net profit rose to Rs762 crore in the three months ended 31 December 2017 from Rs487.25 crore the year earlier. Media reports attributed the jump to foreign exchange gains and compensation received from PW for engine problems. Before that, in the September-ended quarter Q2, and June-ended quarter Q1, the profit was four-fold and three-four respectively, thanks in part to credit from PW for grounded aircraft and delayed deliveries.
 
 
