BENGALURU: Chief minister   on Monday accused PM Modi of disgracing his position by misleading the people of Karnataka with a bundle of lies, and rebutted the “10% commission government” allegations, saying elections should be fought with dignity and based on facts.

 “Modi made politically motivated allegations against our government, in a desperate move to show us in poor light and disgraced the post of PM. He is morally unfit to be PM of this country,” said Siddaramaiah, countering allegations made by Modi at the   rally in Bengaluru on Sunday.
 
 Siddaramaiah said Modi has no moral right to make corruption allegations against his government when half a dozen of his colleagues, including their own chief ministerial candidate  , have gone to jail on corruption charges, and set a precedent by  .
 
 
 
 
 ‘‘By making such a person the party’s CM candidate, Modi is facilitating corruption,’’ he added. Siddaramaiah said Modi as Gujarat’s CM did not appoint a Lokayukta for nine years, fearing he would be exposed as he had allegedly unduly favoured some industrialists. As PM, Modi also failed to appoint a Lokpal, fearing the scams in his government would be out in the open.
 
 Attacking Modi for his allegations that the Karnataka government facilitates “ease of doing murder” rather than ease of doing business, Siddaramaiah recalled the 2002 Gujarat riots. “How many died during their tenure in Godhra? Is there any law and order in Rajasthan, UP, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana which tops the crime rate in the country? Wherever the BJP is in power, there is no protection for minorities,” the CM said.
 
 On the PM’s claim that his government has granted a huge financial package towards development of the state, which has failed to utilize it, Siddaramaiah countered it with: “PM keeps making comments that he has given so much money to the states. Where is this money is coming from? It’s the taxes collected from the states which are sent to the Centre. It’s our money which comes back.”
 
 He also claimed that Karnataka has received less than its entitlement. “As per the 14th  , in the past three years, we were to get Rs 95,000 crore, whereas we got Rs 84,500 crore, so they have to give us Rs 10,000 crore. Though we contribute 9.47% to the exchequer, we receive only 4.65% in return,” he said.
 
