SURAT: Prime Minister   on Sunday called for making of a ‘New India’,  ,  , corruption, and poverty which would help India become a global power to reckon with in next few years.

 Modi addressed a huge crowd before flagging off of the night marathon in Surat city, a day after he visited the adjacent Union territory Daman. 
 
 “Everyone wants India to be a global power. But this is possibly only when we work to overcome our own shortcomings and rid ourselves from vices. The New India should be free from the venom of casteism, poverty, communalism and filth. There should be no place for corruption. We want an India where women are revered and youth get a conducive atmosphere to chase their dreams,” Modi said, addressing a public gathering at the Lalbhai Contractor Stadium on Dumas Road.
 
 Stating that achieving New India by 2022, when the country celebrates 75 years of its Independence, the Prime Minister said that it was not a difficult task to accomplish. “A country is neither made by a government or political leaders. It is made by sheer peoples’ power. If 125 crore people of the country resolve to do so unitedly, no power in the world can stop us from achieving this.”
 
 Modi recalled the 1942 Quit India Movement where people were determined to root out the British from India and did it in just five years.
 
 The PM also heaped praises on the   saying that people of Surat have always shown a grit to achieve anything that they once decide.
 
 “Many think Surat is only about undhiyu and locho. But there is another distinct identity of this city. When people here decided to achieve something, they do it unitedly,” he said to a cheering crowd.
 
 He also urged Surtis to create a world record of participation in the ‘Run for Unity’ that will be held across India on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel on October 31 as well as another record on June 21 - the International Yoga Day. 
 
 “You have three months. Practice yoga and home and in public gardens. You have to learn the syllabus,” he said. 
 
 Modi also lauded the marathon organizers saying that organizing such events with massive public participation inculcates values of unity in the society.
 
 
