BENGALURU: Smoking may be completely banned in restaurants, bars and cafes in Bengaluru, if the high-power committee on tobacco control has its way.

 On February 5, 2018, the panel suggested that no designated smoking zones be allowed in bars, restaurants and cafes, citing that they are only providing room for such establishments to violate the ban.
 
 Dr Vishal Rao U S, member of the high-power committee on tobacco control, said besides writing to BBMP, meetings have been conducted to ban smoking in pubic places, especially eateries, pubs and cafes. “No restaurant has maintained the designated smoking zone as per norms. In some cases, smoke from these zones is being let into children’s play areas, resulting in passive smoking. The recent Global Adult Tobacco survey data shows India has high exposure to second-hand smoking,” he said.
 
 Section 3 of the   Prohibition of Smoking and Protection of Non-Smokers Act 2001 prohibits smoking in public places to avoid passive smoking. 
 
 “We’ve suggested to the BBMP to ban smoking in bars, hotels, restaurants, pubs and cafés and not allow any designated areas for smoking,” he added. 
 
 The Karnataka Fire and   recently requested the panel that bars and restaurants be declared no-smoking areas, keeping public interest in mind. The department said any negligence by smokers could pose a fire hazard, given that these establishments use a lot of combustible material on their premises.
 
 
 
 
 Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner (health), BBMP said notices will be issued to all pubs, bars, restaurants and hookah bars in the city to implement the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act. Simultaneously, inspections will be conducted.
 
 “During inspections of many hotels and pubs, it was found that their smoking zones were not as per norms. Smoking zones can be created in restaurants with more than 30 tables. They should ideally have exhaust fans and make sure the smoke does not enter any other room. But this is being violated everywhere,” he pointed out.
 
 G Honnagiri Gowda, president of Karnataka Wine Merchants’ Association and representative of Karnataka Pub Owners’ Association, said the associations will support the ban. “It has become a nuisance for other customers every time a person smokes inside pubs,” he said.
 
 K Shamaraju, treasurer, Federation of Hotel and Restaurants Association of India, said many hotels have already banned smoking. “We have implemented the rule. Customers who want to smoke are told to go outside. Smoking is not entertained within restaurant premises,” he said.
 
 
  
 
