NEW DELHI:   in north Delhi witnessed   on Tuesday afternoon after a teenager   at an   in full public view. The undertrial, Dinesh Karalia, was shot in the back and is being treated at a hospital.

 The shooter was chased and nabbed by a few Special Cell sleuths who were in the court. DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav confirmed the developments. The 17-year-old shooter is a member of the Sunil Tillu gang. Karalia is an associate of Delhi’s most wanted gangster,  .
 
  
  
 A probe has revealed that one Amit Dabang alias Tajpuria from Tajpur village, a member of the Tillu gang, had assigned the task to the juvenile and provided the weapon. Incidentally, the juvenile was also involved in the murder of Monu Nepali, a shooter of the Gogi gang, three months ago near Rohini court on Tajpuria’s instructions.
 
 Karalia had been brought to   from Rohtak jail by Haryana Police in a case of armed robbery committed by him in Ranhola of west Delhi in 2015. “A team of southwestern range of Special Cell comprising inspector PC Yadav and SI Maan Singh had gone to court to get information about the gangsters,” DCP Yadav said. The juvenile shot Karalia with a country-made pistol just when he was entering the jail van parked inside the court complex. Karalia ducked for cover and was hit near his left shoulder. A stampede-like situation occurred as people ran for cover. The juvenile tried to mingle in the crowd, but was chased and pinned down by the Special Cell sleuths and cops from the north district. The pistol was recovered from the spot.
 
 DCP (north)   said that an FIR has been registered for attempt to murder and under Arms Act. Police are inquiring how the teenager managed to smuggle in the pistol inside the court. The security is also being reviewed. The Gogi and Tillu gangs have been at loggerheads since the 2013 Delhi University college students’ union elections. Around a dozen people have been killed in the last one year in a gang war between the two groups.
 
 Gogi escaped from the custody of Delhi Police in Bahadurgarh in 2015 while on his way for a court hearing. Since then, he has been hiding in Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh and comes to Delhi only to commit crime. He carries a reward of Rs 2 lakh. Tillu operates from jail through Tajpuria.
 
 On January 15, Gogi, his close associate Kuldeep Fajja and a few others killed Tillu’s close aide,  , by shooting him 30 times in full public view in Prashant Vihar. This is when the Tillu gang decided to regroup and take on Gogi and his men. Tuesday was the second bid to take on the Gogi gang. Cops suspect that Gogi may try to seek revenge by killing a rival gang member.
 
 
