Mumbai: It was a murder that silenced a man and his pen, at one stroke. It brought a “syndicate hit” to life on Mumbai streets as motorcycle-borne gunmen opened fire, at the behest of gangster  , a special trial court held on Wednesday. 

 The court relied on Rajan’s “extra judicial confession’’ (statement to TV reporters after the killing) which the judge said he had “not retracted’’ and was made by him as a “free man’’ while still abroad and not accessible to police in India. The defence questioned its evidentiary value.
 
 Defence lawyers of the accused said they would be appeal the verdict. Santosh Deshpande, defence lawyer of sharp shooter Rohee Tangappan Joseph alias Satish Kalya and two others, said the findings including on the reasons stated behind the murder are not borne out by the evidence brought on record by the CBI. The special MCOCA judge Sameer Adkar had after analyzing depositions by four journalists held that Rajan had got Dey murdered as he was “having doubts about the honesty of Dey’’ and was “not happy with what Dey was writing.’’ The defence lawyers had argued that the journalists “improvised’’ on the earlier versions of their statements to Mumbai police. 
 
 The defence lawyers had also argued that if the CBI case is to be believed of Rajan deciding to kill Dey after a June 2 article, there was no evidence of Rajan hatching a conspiracy involving the rest of the accused. There was no witness statement on record to show when the conspiracy was hatched or who had hatched it, argued Kalya’s lawyer. 
 
 The confession of accused Arun Dake had proved crucial as he outlined how the bikers had gunned down Dey. He had retracted it “immediately’’ before the magistrate and complained of police assault and threats, argued the defence lawyers. But, the court said Dake’s confession “clearly shows that it was Kalya who had fired five bullets on the person of J Dey”.
 
 The defence had made noise about how the ballistic evidence was a “major dent’’in the prosecution since there were discrepancies in which police unit had seized and sent the revolver and empty cartidges for analysis. The court held that the “ballistic report shows that ‘lead was recovered from Dey’s body’ and “characteristic features of the firing pin Tallied with cartridges which were test fired,’’ thus proving it was the same firearm used for the murder. The defence had argued however, the recovered ‘lead’ was “black’ as mentioned in Post mortem but a “silver grey’ was produced in court.
 
 
