The leaked content of the upcoming book by   (PTI) chairman Imran Khan’s ex-wife Reham Khan has stirred a political storm ahead of its publication.

 A day after the manuscript of Reham’s book was leaked online, many PTI leaders took to Twitter to accuse her of being part of an agenda to malign Imran Khan’s character and reputation ahead of the upcoming general elections. The book is said to revolve around Reham’s marriage to Khan.
 
 Salman Ahmad, one of Pakistan’s most famous musicians and a PTI member, alleged that Reham had taken £100,000 million from   Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) to malign her former husband.
 
 “A close source has informed me that Reham was given £0.1m (Indian Rs 89.3 lakh approx.) from PML-N to write the book,” he , adding that she had also offered him money to malign Imran Khan. “I have all the evidence. I have the email that she had sent me,” he said. “According to her,   is a hypocrite and a liar who doesn’t fast or pray.”
 
 Pakistani actor  , who is also a supporter of PTI, has also tweeted how he had the “unfortunate experience of reading a manuscript of Reham Khan’s book”. According to him, the summary of the book is that “Imran Khan is the most evil man to walk the face of this planet. Reham is the most pious righteous woman ever and Shahbaz Sharif (former PM Nawaz Sharif ’s brother) is an amazing guy”.
 
 In response, Reham posted on social media an email sent to her by Abbasi last year, saying that PTI had substantial data against her provided by some “agency or hackers”.
 
 In a tweet, Reham wondered how it was possible for the actor to read the manuscript of her book, since it had not been released yet. “Only possible through fraud or theft,” she said.
 
 PTI’s spokesperson Fawad Chaudhry said the timing of the book’s release was aimed at defaming PTI. “I will call it pre-poll rigging,” he said. Chaudhry accused Reham of meeting Maryam Nawaz, ousted PM Nawaz Sharif ’s daughter, saying his party had solid evidence to prove the claim. According to him, the meetings were arranged by former interior minister Ahsan Iqbal.
 
 As the controversy deepened, Dr Ijaz Rehman, Reham’s former husband, vowed to expose the “truth” regarding Reham Khan very soon. “This truth will highlight Reham’s ‘drug addictions’, ‘affairs’ and violence,” Rehman said.
 
 According to PTI sources, Imran and a few other party leaders came across the script of Reham’s book after it was leaked on social media. “A meeting was held during which the party decided to counter the contents of the book and PTI social media accounts subsequently sent out tweets in condemnation of Reham,” sources said.
 
 Earlier, Imran’s close friend and London-based businessman Zulfiqar Bukhari threatened to take legal action against Reham over her upcoming book.
 
 For some social media users, the PTI has effectively provided Reham much-needed publicity for her book before its launch.
 
