JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notice to the state government over re-employing Dr B B  , director of the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Jaipur, for the third time at the age of 71 on a petition filed by   (RFSS).

 The single bench of Justice V S   issued notices to the respondents, chief secretary; additional chief secretary (finance); principal secretary, department of personnel; and Dr Arora.
 
 The petition said the order extending employment of private respondent Dr Arora for a third time at the age of about 71 years is arbitrary and illegal. Dr Arora retired on February 28, 2007.
 
 He was employed again for a period of two years from 2007 to 2009. After a period of six years, he was once again engaged on December 30, 2015. His service has now been extended bypassing the objection raised by the department of personnel. The order extending the reemployment is a violation of rules, said the petitioner.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner   said the state government has a policy that one cannot be reemployed beyond 65 years even on a contract basis. It’s highly unwarranted and uncalled for to post him as the director of FSL at the age of 71.
 
 The petition said Dr Arora had manipulated the affairs in the FSL in such a manner that nobody gets a promotion in the department. The letters written by the government in January, February and April 2017 for sending proposals for the departmental promotion committee (DPC) have not been sent. Such inaction shows that he wants to hold the post indefinitely. Further, he has harmed the annual confidential report (ACR) of persons who were entitled for promotion. By the time the   was corrected, such people had retired and the private respondent continued to be reemployed.
 
 Despite of availability of experienced and qualified persons, the continuation of man of 71 years, whose credibility is under a cloud, is causing serious prejudices and frustration amongst officers of the department as the avenues of their promotions are curtailed, the petition said.
 
 
