HYDERABAD: Seventy-seven IndiGo passengers had a close shave at   on Wednesday night as tyres of an aircraft coming in from Tirupati burst on landing. The mishap led to the closure of the runway, disrupting 31 flights and leaving over 2,000 flyers stranded. 

 The runway, which was closed at 10.04pm, resumed operations only at 2.22am. While the airport has a second runway, sources said it does not have night landing facility and hence could not be used. In fact, it is only used when the primary runway is under maintenance, said a source.
 
  While IndiGo claimed that only one of the tyres burst,   ( ) confirmed that all the four gear wheels burst on landing. 
 
 
 
 "Since all four main gear wheels burst, the aircraft was rendered completely immobile. An IndiGo team, supported by Hyderabad airport officials, changed two of the tyres as per disabled aircraft recovery plan, post which the aircraft was safely towed away and operations resumed at 0222 hours on March 29," a GHIAL spokesperson said.
 
 "It took longer to resume operations as IndiGo's towing equipment wasn't working efficiently. Alternative arrangements had to be made by the airport staff to remove the aircraft from the runway and clear it for subsequent arrivals and departures," a source said. IndiGo, however, denied the claims.
 
 "It could have been a major tragedy considering all the main landing wheels, both on the port (left side) and starboard (right side), burst. The aircraft fell right on its belly. At that speed, passengers could have been seriously injured. This is a very unusual occurrence," said a private airline staffer familiar with the incident.
 
 
 
 Angry scenes erupted at the airport around midnight as sleep- and food-deprived flyers started to grow impatient with hardly any updates coming their way from airline operators or airport authorities. 
 
 "After the first hour, there was just no place to sit. We stood for six hours at a stretch," said Sreekesh Yeniganti, a Hyderabad resident travelling to Delhi for a job interview. "Forget food, even water was scarce. Nobody seemed interested in giving information to passengers."
 
  "I was worried about my two young children. After a point, I didn't know how to calm them down. I could only find some dry rice to feed them. It was depressing and infuriating," said Anita R, who was travelling to Bengaluru. 
 
 
