GURUGRAM: Well-known Gurugram-based financier   (60) was arrested on Tuesday night in what could turn out to be a big case of financial  . Parnami is accused of cheating around 300 families, including some NRIs, of crores of rupees. 

 The accused was produced in a city court on Wednesday, which sent him for questioning to three days of  .
 
 Cop said Parnami’s 40-year-old business was based upon collecting money from investors with the promise of high interest (up to 18%) in return. Investors said that for decades, they were happy with him, but alleged that since demonetisation, he had stopped paying interest. 
 
 Following pressure from investors, he had issued post-dated cheques which were returned by banks over the past few months. 
 
 Fearing for their investments, many of them then filed complaints during the last month, and even held a protest in front of Parnami’s house.
 
 On Tuesday evening, more than 70 investors reached his Sector 4 home and called police. An FIR was registered against him based on one of the complaints, by Nirvana Country resident Amit Sharma, filed on March 15, in which he claimed the accused had duped him of Rs 36 lakh, at 18% interest. Later that night, he was arrested, and cops asked all protesters to file their complaints separately.
 
 Sources said the accused ran a ‘chit fund’ company, where people were paid interest in return of their investment. The investors claimed they did get the returns as promised for the first few months, but the it stopped.
 
 Advocate Harish Kumar Malhotra said many investors have already filed cases against Parnami, while others have sent him notices. 
 
 “I’ve sent notices to Parnami for my clients, a Canada-based NRI who was duped of Rs 3.2 crore. His brother also lost Rs 45 lakh, while another NRI lost Rs 15 lakh. Another person, Gupta, is in touch, with claims of over Rs 60 lakh,” he said.
 
 The failure of the real estate market reportedly spelt Parnami’s doom. He used to invest the money he had collected in property, and pay high interest from the profit he made by selling them. “ I’ve heard he squandered money investing in foreign countries like Dubai, Morocco and Hong Kong, through money laundering channels,” wrote Amit Sharma in his complaint. 
 
 “We have booked the accused under sections 402 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and arrested him. Actual amount of fraud is not clear yet, as we are asking more people to come up and file their complaints,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (west & crime), Gurugram. 
 
 
