Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government sent out mixed signals on Padmaavat after Supreme Court rejected MP’s bid to reinstate a ban on the release of the controversial film. While chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that it’s not a question of law and order but “public sentiments”, home minister Bhupendra Singh Thakur said the administration will abide by the SC order.

 “We have filed a review petition in the honourable Supreme Court to reinstate the ban on the movie in Madhya Pradesh. We have pleaded that this is not a law-and-order problem but a question of public sentiment, therefore we should be heard,” Chouhan told reporters in Bhopal here on Tuesday. After a pause, he repeated that it’s only because public sentiments are involved that the state is seeking a review. “We have pleaded that sentiments of the public and community should be respected,” said Chouhan. He reiterated his stand during a programme in Jabalpur later in the afternoon.
 
 On the other hand, Bhupendra Singh, who had earlier said that even playing the songs of Padmaavat is “violation of rules”, assured on Tuesday that the government will follow the SC order. “We shall abide by the SC verdict on the screening of the movie. We will also maintain law and order in the state after the release of the film,” he told reporters in bypoll-bound Mungaoli. The apex court has made it very clear that states are obliged to maintain law and order after the release of the movie.
 
 For all its talk about the ban, the MP government is yet to issue a formal order prohibiting the release of the film. The film is scheduled to be released nationwide on January 25, ahead of the long Republic Day weekend, and advance bookings have begun in the rest of the country, but theatres in MP have yet to list it. Chouhan did not comment on law and order, and the threats by those opposing the release of the film.
 
 The Karni Sena kept up its vitriolic campaign against the movie but the women threatening to commit Jauhar took a step back and sought “permission for suicide”. The Sena’s ‘Jauhar Samiti Sansthan’ will meet with the Film Certification Appellate Tribunal in Delhi while in Madhya Pradesh, Karni Sena office bearers are exerting pressure on the government to ask distributors not to release the movie. 
 
 Karni Sena state president Jeevan Singh Sherpur said, “We are talking to the government in Madhya Pradesh and want it to ask the film distributors not to release the movie in MP.” Organisation secretary Shailendra Singh, who had earlier warned that “many things will happen if the film is screened”, said that the Sansthan office-bearers have an appointment with the Tribunal at 2.30pm on Wednesday. “We will put forward our point of view strongly in the meeting to convince the Tribunal that the movie should not be released,” he said.
 
 Then, pulling out his trump card, Shailendra Singh warned: “If the movie is still released, there are 17% Rajputs in Madhya Pradesh and we have already demonstrated our strength in Ratlam last year. The agitation will be intensified on Wednesday.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Karni women activists have withdrawn their pledge of “Jauhar”. Instead, they are sending applications to district collectors “seeking permission for suicide”. Speaking to TOI, Urmila Prahalad Singh Tomar, state president of women’s wing of the Sena said, “ Our leaders have asked to change the form of the agitation. Many of us have already sent applications to collectors seeking permission to end our life”.
 
 
