JAIPUR: The   has directed the   (JMC) to remove shop owners who have not replied to notices issued by the   for encroaching government land on  . 

 The division bench of M N Bhandari and G R Moochandani was hearing a suo motu petition on encroachments on government land at Moti Doongri around Ganesh Temple.
 
 The counsel for JMC informed that 24 shops in the area were given notice to furnish documents to prove their ownership of the land where the shops have been set up. 
 
 But only four have replied to the notice so far. The court then observed that those who had not responded to the notice could be encroachers and directed the JMC to initiate action against such shop owners.
 
 
 
 
 The high court asked the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) to furnish details of the action taken on the stray cattle menace in the city by February 27.
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari was hearing the suo motu petition on the stray cattle menace and poor civic condition in the city on Wednesday.
 
 Showing pictures of the cattle roaming around the city, amicus curiae Anant Kasliwal said the problem was still persisting in the city and the JMC had to fully comply with the order of the court. However, the JMC counsel argued that the pictures could be of earlier dates and the JMC had actively dealt with the menace and the situation had improved drastically.
 
 
 
 
 The high court issued notice to the secretary, food and civil supplies department; Dausa DSO; collector and tehsildar over irregularities in allotting a ration shop.
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari issued the notice on a petition filed by Magh Singh that a ration shop at Nahar Khora Panchyat (Sikrai) was allotted to Rajesh Kumar Meena illegally. He said it was allotted by furnishing fake income certificate.
 
 Satish Khandelwal, counsel for the petitioner, said that though the interview by the district committee was held last year on August 24, the income certificate furnished by the allottee was that of over a month later, dated September 26. This shows he got the shop allotted in his name in connivance with officials subverting due process.
 
 
