LUCKNOW: The much-hyped   of   ( ), which sprawls across 765 acre, encountered severe protest from the villagers on Monday. 

 The project had got much appreciation during the UP Investors' Summit with a big housing group showing keen interest in developing it. However, LDA's first attempt at claiming the land failed on Monday with the locals turning violent and chasing the LDA team out of the field. 
 
 The project is slated to be a hi-tech township, which, if completed on time, will be second to   (on  ) in terms of its extensiveness and pace of construction. LDA had pinned high hopes of generating revenue from the project and showcased it in the summit to attract builders. LDA officials even claimed that a big housing group had shown interest in developing it and visited the site soon after the summit to check the land and design. 
 
 However, when an LDA executive engineer along with his team visited the site to claim the land, the locals protested and turned violent. Executive engineer Arun Kumar Singh said, "A few even pushed us and damaged our vehicles. We wanted to construct a boundary wall around the acquired area as LDA has already paid compensation to the villagers. But the locals turned violent and thrashed us."
 
 He said that though his team members' injuries were not severe, the locals had been obstructing the work ever since its inception. He said, "We had asked for police force for the drive but they didn't reach on time, which is why the villagers could manhandle us. The Kakori police station even refused to register an FIR against the locals claiming that the land was not under their jurisdiction. How are we supposed to fulfil our duty when police don't support us?"
 
 LDA plans to conduct the drive again in a couple of days and has asked for more police force next time. Kakori station officer (SO), Sanjay Pandey said, "We went with the team at around 12:30 pm but then they left us at Pyarepur and moved ahead. After that, we have no clue where the conflict took place and how they got injured."
 
