SECUNDERABAD: The silence of dawn is broken by the sound of heavy boots of soldiers undergoing training at 1Electronics Mechanical Engineers (EME) Centre abutting the   state highway, popularly known as Rajiv Rahadari. The army training began recently and the area is now abuzz with trainee soldiers doing physical activities like jogging and running, crawling through difficult terrain or simply walking at the four-kilometre track.

 With the initiative of General Officer Commanding (GOC), Telangana Andhra Sub Area, N Srinivasa Rao, the Eagle Jogging Track has come up on the premises of 1 EME Centre to provide orientation to trainees in cross country and jungle terrain.
 
 Before the track was created, the trainee soldiers used to jog on civilian roads and encounter heavy traffic, resulting in knee, muscle and back problems. “Physical training is an important part of the curriculum of every trainee. All trainees must practise four-km cross country training followed by battle proficiency test,” senior instructor of 1 EME Centre, Lt Col   R told TOI.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “Now, the trainees are jogging without any disturbance on concrete roads laid in certain areas of the premises. This kind of jogging track cannot be found anywhere in the country,” Venkatesan added.
 
 Venkatesan further said the trainees have to do exercises twice a day to gain physical fitness and battle worthiness. This physical curriculum of the trainees would continue for up to two months and then they would be posted at northern and eastern borders.
 
 Referring to the food served to the trainees, the senior instructor said breakfast includes paratha/puri, egg and tea, while for lunch chapati, dal, two curries, rice and fruits are served. The same menu is repeated for dinner too.
 
 Apart from this menu, non-vegetarian items are also served.
 
 “We don’t feel the stress during jogging and other physical exercises. Moreover, we complete the exercise schedule in a short time. I’m thrilled to be part of this specialised training. It will help us protect our nation,” said  , a trainee soldier from Punjab.
 
 “Crawling through channel, walking bare foot, stepping stones, ditch jumping and balancing are the best exercises. The beautiful environs of the 1 EME Centre adds to the ambience. We feel relaxed even during the study hour and strenuous exercises,” said another trainee,  , a native of   in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh.
 
