DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s chief wildlife warden DVS   has complained to Border Security Force (BSF) officials against Loveraj Singh Dharmshaktu, assistant commandant in BSF who had disclosed the matter regarding blindness in   species of Gangotri National Park. 

 Khati raised an objection to the celebrated mountaineer and Padma Shri awardee, Dharmshaktu, having shared the information about sheep going blind with media instead of informing the forest officials. The sources said that Khati was of the opinion that the revelation has put the state in bad light.
 
 Khati told TOI, “I complained to the higher authorities against Loveraj Singh Dharamshaktu for exposing the blue sheep blindness to media and not to the forest officials. It is against the professional ethics.”
 
 According to sources, Dharamshaktu has been advised by the senior officials not to talk to the media directly, but convey through spokesperson or media channels in BSF so he did not speak on the matter.
  
 TOI tried to contact  , commandant BSF in   unit Dehradun, where Dharamshaktu is posted currently, repeatedly, and texted him a message for his version, but he did not respond.
 
 However, Dharamshaktu had earlier told TOI which was carried in the news coverage that Dharamshaktu had brought the matter to the notice of range officer and, then deputy director of Gangotri National Park in September when he spotted blue sheep with eyes popping out or hanging.
 
 Later, he also talked to Khati on phone which was felicitated by the Gangotri National Park officials during his expedition. However, for three months, the wildlife officials did nothing to track the matter and investigate the mysterious disease. It was in December that TOI got access to the photographs of infected blue sheep and then had interaction with Dharamshaktu who shared the matter with genuine concern for the sheep going blind.
 
 A BSF official on the condition of anonymity said, “There is a discontentment among BSF unit at Doiwala in Dehradun for senior official asking Dharamshaktu, a celebrated mountaineer, who will lead BSF expedition for Mount Everest this year, to keep silent on this issue. He and his entire team who discovered these infected blue sheep should have been rather awarded for their noble work for the protection of wildlife.” 
 
