Nagpur: The decomposed body of eight-year-old   Yadav, missing for last nine days, was found in a plastic   on Thursday in Sonegaon Lake. Vansh’s 17-year-old cousin was rounded up by crime branch for the murder.

 Vansh, a student of standard III, had reportedly rudely refused to serve water to his cousin, leaving him enraged. The boy is learnt to have retorted at his cousin that he was not his father’s servant. This humiliation in front a friend led to the cousin later strangling the boy with a rope until he fell motionless.
 
 In a twist, Vansh’s inconsolable mother Gauri and the rest of the family began protesting when the crime branch detained his   cousin for the murder. “I have already lost one child. Vansh’s cousin (my sister’s son) is no different to me. In fact, Vansh grew up playing in his cousin’s lap. How can he kill my son?” she said, demanding a DNA test to ascertain whether the body was of her son. The family also claimed Vansh had left home in shorts and vest, but the body was clad in full pant and shirt.
 
 Crime branch API Gorakh Kumbhar and others had a harrowing time convincing the family at the Kachipura chowkie. The scene outside the chowkie was heart-wrenching as Gauri recalled the last moments with her son. “I wanted to make him a paratha for tiffin, but he wanted Rs10. I had only Rs7, so he took only Rs5,” said Gauri, recalling how he used to call her ‘moti’. “He was sad as we did not have Rs1,800 for his exam fee. I had assured to arrange Rs900 but he was reluctant to go to school,” she said choked with emotions. “Vansh would have been safe if he had gone to school,” she said.
 
 Gauri was out selling curd while her husband Omprakash was distributing milk, and elder sister Vanshika (10) was at school, when Vansh disappeared. He had been alone with his cousin and a couple of others. When Gauri returned, Vansh was nowhere to be spotted. After a brief search, the family had approached Rana Pratap Nagar police.
 
 The Yadavs reside in the hutments on a public utility ground behind Khamla police chowky, and own a few cows. They shift the cow dung to the open space, where it is dried for sale in retail market.
 
 The cousin told police he had taken Vansh on scooter to the open space in front of Vrundavan Apartment to pack some cow dung cakes for sale in the plastic sack. Vansh’s refusal to help also angered the cousin, leading to the murder. The accused minor is a school dropout after Standard X, and used to work in the family business.
 
 It’s learnt the cousin tried to dispose of the body at a place close to a colony, but then hurled it into the lake. Police said the body was spotted by a morning walker, who alerted control room. Sonegaon police contacted Rana Pratap Nagar counterparts as a missing person case was registered there.
 
 Vansh’s father Omprakash and other relatives immediately identified the body after seeing the familiar plastic sack and rope tied to it used by them, even though the face was beyond recognition.
 
 Rana Pratap Nagar police have now added the murder charge to the FIR. The minor would be produced before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate on Friday.
 
 
