Ranchi: After a month long hullabaloo, residents across 34 urban local bodies will finally choose their representatives in the state-wide Urban Local Body elections on Monday. But with the scorching summer heat ready to daunt even the bravest of souls, voters must observe a few tips to defy the wrath of the sun and exercise their right to franchise.

 “The smartest idea is to stay hydrated. Many polling centres have long queues with little or no shade, and it is a wise idea to carry a bottle of water, preferably loaded with electrolytes. Covering your arms and face with cotton clothes can be of help too when you are waiting for your turn to cast your vote,” said A S Ranjan, a city-based physician. 
 
 It is not just the summer heat a voter needs to handle. Locating one’s polling booth and bringing along the required documents are crucial too. Shashank Shekhar Mishra, an ex-campus ambassador for the Ranchi election commission said, “Having a voter ID card doesn’t ensure that one will be allowed to vote. One must confirm that their name is on the electoral roll beforehand. In case one doesn’t have a voter ID card, one can bring along their Aadhar card, Pan Card, bank account copy or driving license matching the details on the electoral roll.” He added that new voters must ensure that they use the EVM machine correctly.
 
 “In this poll, the voters need to cast votes for three positions; that is the mayor, deputy mayor and ward councillor. Voters need to ensure that they cast their votes for all the three positions before they leave the polling booth,” Mishra said.
 
 Seating arrangements will be available at the model polling booths in Ranchi while other polling booths will have disability access, especially in the case of loco motor disabilities. Voters can also check out their polling booths online in the electoral rolls published on the website of State Election Commission, Jharkhand before stepping out to vote.
 
 Box: Timings: 7 am to 5pm
 
 Best hours to avoid the sun: 7 am to 8am and 4pm to 5pm
 
 Number of polling booths – 798
 
 Documents to remember- Voter ID/ PAN/ Driving License/ Bank Passbook
 
 
