KOLKATA: Those receiving funds from the   government have to be accountable to the finance department over their expenditure. That was the rule for government departments, undertakings, rural and urban bodies, but not for autonomous bodies like universities. But now, they have to fall in line.

 State universities will have to keep all records from the government sanction, no-objection from the line department such as public works department(PWD) for construction of a building or a road inside the campus, details of the tender process and an undertaking from the departmental head of the university that the work was satisfactory.
 
 The university finance officer will have to preserve all the documents and vouchers relating to the work done so the university can produce the papers whenever asked for.
 
 State universities cannot bypass the state government even while opening bank accounts. Moreover, they can’t have more than one bank account for government funds and will have to park the entire money there. Learning hard from the recent financial muddle in   — where a senior official was removed for opening fixed deposits in the university’s name without the consent of the highest policy making body — the university syndicate, the state finance department has sent clear instructions to take prior approval from the department before opening fixed deposit accounts.
 
 State finance secretary   issued the new set of rules on Tuesday for all autonomous bodies from panchayats to state universities. The finance department circular is a follow up of what state education minister   has been insisting for long. In fact, the point was raised by former   vice-chancellor  . They contested the autonomy argument saying funds released by the state government are public money and therefore the assets created by universities are public assets.
 
 Under the new rules, autonomous bodies will have to route their capital expenditure projects through PWD. It will, in turn, will execute the project through its enlisted contractors.
 
