NAGPUR: In 1998, the pursuit for a picturesque landscape took a fine-arts student to Wela Harichandra village — around 12 kilometres from Nagpur. There, in the middle of nowhere, he stumbled upon a ruin and spent hours sketching it.

 Manoj Bhanuse, then, didn’t know that he had stepped into an over 600-year-old stepwell built by the Bhonsalas. In Vidarbha, step wells are known as ‘bavadis’, ‘bahuli’ or ‘’pairyachi vihir’.
 
 The ancient structure didn’t catch the eye of heritage conservationists but it did excite a group of college students and lecturers who began to document it in 2010. That year students of the Institute of Design Education and Architecture Studies (IDEAS) were discussing locations for the documentation of sites having prominent architectural elements. Bhanuse, who is now working as an assistant professor in the college, thought back on the ancient structure. “I suggested the stepwell was an ideal subject,” he told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The research on the step well started soon according to associate professor Kirti Bhonsle who is also one of the authors of the documentation. “We found that despite being a unique contribution to architectural heritage, the stepwell hardly has a recorded history,” she says. In April 2016, British scientist Philip Earis, who was mapping ‘India’s forgotten stepwells’, read the documentation and came all the way to Nagpur to visit this site, adds Bhonsle.
 
 Since almost eight years, the college is documenting the structure which is completely in a shambles. Bhanuse claims his sketch showed two-three arches and sculptures. But a recent visit by the students and faculty revealed that many elements have gone missing. 
 
 “A large part of the structure has collapsed. Such stepwells are well preserved in   but it is disheartening to see such a beautiful piece of architecture with intricate carvings in this pitiable condition,” says assistant professor  , who took a group of students to the site on Wednesday for the latest documentation. 
 
 On Thursday, TOI visited the site and found it to be littered with plastic and other waste. Though locals don’t know its exact history, they narrated some folklores passed down from generations. 
 
 To ensure that the villagers do not cause damage to the structure, the college keeps organizing awareness programmes. “Students also worked out the plan and section of the structure and tried to reconstruct certain portions that may have existed at that time,” says Bhonsle. 
 
 The stepwells of Vidarbha find a mention in K Girhe’s book ‘Architecture of Bhoslas of Nagpur’. “In ancient times, digging of wells was the easiest method for obtaining water. Idea and architecture of a stepwell is solely influenced by the Mughal architecture,” reads a paragraph from the book. 
 
 Girhe calls stepwells ‘India’s contribution to the architectural wealth of the world’. “In medieval times, stepwells were a major source of water and people then would protect them. At the time of invasions, they would fill up the wells to prevent the enemy from destroying them,” says Milind Gujarkar, head of department, Ideas. 
 
 Though well-protected centuries ago, the stepwell is getting step-motherly treatment from the agencies. An official from the Archaeological Survey of India says that such structures are usually not preserved by the ASI.
 
 Confirming that it is not mentioned in the heritage list, architect Ashok Mokha, who is also a member of the   says, “It is a fantastic and first of its kind discovery for our city. The structure probably missed the heritage list as it is located in the outskirts. But we will now take it up with the Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) and make sure it is preserved.” 
 
 As stepwells are famous worldwide, Mokha adds that the site can be developed for tourism. 
 
 
