AHMEDABAD:   leader   on Tuesday said that the government can provide reservations to all communities in the non-reserved category, to include Patidars in the reserved section. The Patel leader was speaking on his plans for a ‘Patidar Nyay Mahapanchayat’ at Dhrangadhra in Surendranagar district this Saturday, where he will raise the Patidar quota issue with MLAs of the community from both parties.

 Hardik once again emphasized reservations after a long time, after rebels in his organization, Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), started speaking against his “autocratic style of functioning”.
 
 Speaking to TOI,   said, “The main issue of this Patidar Nyay Mahapanchayat is to press our demand for reservations for Patidars. If the government cannot give reservations to Patidars and it thinks all non-reserved communities should be given reservation, then you just give reservation to all savarnas (non-reserved communities).”
 
 “We will also demand that cases of sedition and other offences slapped on innocent Patidar youths be withdrawn. If the government accepts all these demands, we will stop our agitation that very day,” added Hardik.
 
 Hardik on Tuesday wrote to Gujarat Congress chief Amit Chavda and Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani, besides the 38 Patidar MLAs of both parties, to join the ‘Patidar Nyay Mahapanchayat’ (convention for justice to Patidars) at Dhrangadhra, to discuss the issue of excesses on Patidars during the quota stir.
 
 In his letter to 23 BJP MLAs and 15 Congress MLAs, Hardik said if leaders do not come to the convention, the community will believe they are not with them in the fight for justice.
 
 The letter reads, “For three years, the Patidar community has been fighting for the rights of its next generation and PAAS has been leading this fight. In continuation to that, PAAS will organize a Nyay Mahapanchayat at   village in Dhrangadhra taluka of Surendranagar on Saturday. PAAS invites your MLAs to this convention and you will have to sit with us to extend your support to the community. If you do not attend the ‘Patidar Nyay Mahapanchayat’, it will be believed that you are not with the community in its fight for the quota.”
 
 “So many new Patidar MLAs have been elected in 2017. We will know their feelings towards the community only if they attend our convention,” said Hardik.
 
 
