VITTAL (DK DISTRICT): India, in its quest to become a ‘vishwa guru’, will take all countries along and not use its independence to browbeat others. Instead, India will use its independence to help other countries stay independent themselves. India has a lot to give to others (countries) and less to take from them, said  , sarsanghchalak of   (RSS).

 Inaugurating the ardhamandalotsava of   at Moorukaje in Vittlapadnuru village in Bantwal taluk on Tuesday, the RSS chief said it is this facet of India’s history and tradition that will see that no Hitler is born in the country. “India has its honour and its traditions have their glory,” he said, adding the country has always gone with the premise of treating the world as one family and all its actions are aimed at securing the welfare of this global family.
 
 “Education tells individuals to be good (human beings). But there are some slip-ups along the way,” he said, adding the experiment with an exclusive gurukul system for women that is going on at Maitreyee for the past 24 years is being replicated across India.
 
 Sri Sri Ravishankar, founder of Art of Living who presided over the function, said Maitreyee Gurukul has carried out a silent revolution in a remote village, setting and broking various taboos pertaining to women’s empowerment. “The system of education imparted at the gurukul has also broken myths that surround such type of education and proved that traditions can coexist with modernity. The country needs a second wave of spirituality, and gurukuls can provide the same,” he said.
 
 In his benedictions,  , head of  , said the need of the hour for India is to understand its history and traditions first. “India can dwell on its glorious past rather than hanker after elitist western education,” he noted. 
 
 The organizers honoured Bindeshwar Pathak, founder of Sulabh International, Sudhir Kumar Mishra, DG, BrahMos, Anand Shetty, CMD, Organic group, and locals Aikala Harish and Venkataramana Bhat on the occasion.
 
 
