JAIPUR: The standing committee of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) in its enquiry report on the death of tiger ST-11 and missing tigress ST-5 has recommended an immediate up-gradation of the radio collars of all the nine tigers at the   (STRF). The SBWL has sought GPS enabled, very high frequency (VHF) radio collars.

 Unable to locate Sariska’s missing tigress ST-5, the state forest department had blamed the   (WII) for its search operations going kaput. In the report, the board has highlighted technological error in daily monitoring, done by WII with   (RFD), as the reason behind the tigress remaining untraceable for two months. 
 
 Other recommendations in the report suggests 24X7 monitoring of the big cats with teams working in shifts. Moreover, the report seeks that WII, Dehradun should sort out all technical problems with radio collar signals and frequencies in order to ensure that when a signal goes missing there is no delay in informing the Rajasthan Forest Department. 
 
 While the state forest department has been blaming the WII for thr ST-5 mishap, wildlife enthusiasts have raised questions over monitoring of tigers at Sariska. Sunayan Sharma, a retired IFS officer and president of the   said, “ There is no efficient foresters at   for tracking tigers. The administration is blaming radio collars but proper monitoring should be done in the forest to maintain the ecosystem. The focus is on tiger death and it’s monitoring. Many leopards in the forest are dying due to inadequate staff.”
 
 In the report, the SBWL has highlighted that a highly diverse intelligence network should be created in order to prevent illegals acts of snaring and poaching. A senior forest official on the condition of anonymity said, “ Death of tiger ST-11 happened a few kms away from the   headquarters. This raises a big question mark on forest officials’ tracking system. Illegal activities, such as laying traps for wild animals, are prevalent in STR. All these incidents are happening due to politics within the forest staff. The deployment of local guards is deterring the efficiency of other guards who are willing to work. The administration should take the issue seriously.”
 
 On the death of ST-11, the board says that such deaths will keep occurring untill all villages within the reserve are relocated on a war footing. “ STR is facing a grave crisis as there are 26 villages located at the critical tiger habitat (CTH) of STR which needs immediate relocation.” 
 
 For the protection of area , the board has recommended creating a Sariska strike force, something that has been kept pending for the past 10 years. Moreover, the constitution of a wildlife crime cell has been recommended with a sole purpose of preventing , detecting and investigating wildlife crimes. 
 
 
