NEW DELHI: High intake of sodium — a key component of the common salt we consume daily — causes hypertension and a host of diseases associated with it.

 But what happens if you try cutting down on sodium intake by opting for ‘low sodium salts’ being marketed by many companies?
 
 Nephrologists say the substitution is an equally bad choice because low sodium salts have higher percentage of potassium, which, if consumed in larger amount, can be equally bad for health. It can cause hyperkalemia — excess levels of potassium in blood — that is known to cause symptoms such as weakened pulse, slow heartbeat or muscle weakness.
 
 
  
  
 
 “I get four to five kidney patients every month who have switched to   without consulting doctors. In some cases, the change is highly detrimental to health and patients have to undergo emergency dialysis or implantation of a cardiac pacemaker,” Dr R P Mathur, senior consultant and head of nephrology division at   told TOI.
 
 Low sodium salts are marketed by   companies as a panacea to control high blood pressure. Dr Mathur said it is not advisable to use any special salt without consultation with the treating doctor.
 
 Doctors from B L Kapur super specialty said in 2013, a 55-year-old woman visited their outpatient clinic with a short history of tremulousness of hands. “She was a known case of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and diabetic nephropathy/CKD-5 on conservative treatment with a stable renal function (serum creatinine 4.0 mg/dl). On routine investigations, she was found to have hyperkalemia (serum K+ 8.3 meq/l). ECG showed tall T waves, but her vitals were stable,” they detailed the patient’s case history in the Indian Journal of Nephrology.
 
 Perusal of her documents, doctors added, revealed that no medication was likely to cause hyperkalemia but when questioned about her dietary practices, the woman revealed that she had started taking low sodium salt as it was advertised as being helpful for blood pressure control. “Our patient could be managed successfully with anti-hyperkalemic measures and her symptoms resolved completely after correction of hyperkalemia,” they wrote.
 
 Doctors, however, warned that they have come across a number of cases where patients with renal diseases use “low salt” substitutes without being aware of its potential life threatening side-effects and develop hyperkalemia. “These salt substitutes are marketed as low sodium salt, but it is not appropriately highlighted that they contain potassium in higher amounts. Hence, although patients were instructed to reduce potassium intake, they were unknowingly taking these salt substitutes with high potassium content,” doctors said.
 
 Dr Anoop Misra, chairman of Fortis-C-DOC (Centre of Excellence for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology), said he never advises his patients to go for low sodium salt. “Instead of looking for substitutes, one should focus cutting down   to reduce blood pressure and keep healthy,” he said.
 
