Kolkata/Digha: A Calcutta High Court division bench of acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and Justice Arijit Banerjee upheld the single-judge order allowing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) to hold Pratirodh Sankalpa rally from Contai to Cooch Behar under supervision of a court appointed special officer. 

 But the bench did not allow BJYM to hold the rally from Burdwan to Shantipur on Friday and from Birbhum to Bahrampore on Saturday.
 
 It has appointed advocate Rabi Shankar Dutta as the special officer who will accompany the rally, along with judicial magistrates of the districts concerned (to be deputed by district judge of those districts). The special officer will be accompanied by a police force led by officers not below the rank of deputy police commissioner or deputy superintendent.
 
 Earlier on Wednesday, BJYM state president Debjit Sarkar moved the trial court alleging that Bengal Police had denied them permission to hold the rally. While the outfit had applied to the DGP for permission on January 5, it was denied on January 9.
 
 Police feared the rally would cause disruption in the Gangasagar pilgrimage. They argued there was a scarcity of policemen as a large number had been deployed at Gangasagar. Justice Debangshu Basak had in his order said the mere apprehension had no basis and right of rally could not be denied to any political party. He also said the rally route was not likely to interfere with the movement of pilgrims.
 
 Following the single-judge order, the state government on Thursday moved the HC division bench with the plea that they did not have enough policemen to manage the BJYM rally due to Gangasagar Mela. Appearing for the BJYM, advocate Saptangshu Basu argued that only 200 bikers would take part in the rally and this would not require a large force to ensure security.
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday morning, Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal flagged off the rally from New Digha. Soon after he left, police came to the spot and stopped bikers from going further. A team of officials led by Digha OC Basukinath Bannerjee asked bikers to remove party flags stuck to the vehicles. Police claimed they did not have the orders to allow the rallyists to carry on. 
 
 “We had decided to put up a dais at New Digha and the work was afoot. But police came and asked us to take it down. Later, we arranged a makeshift podium on a Matador,” Sarkar said. “We were stopped by police although the single bench had not given any stay order,” he added.
 
 The division bench also ordered that in case of any violation, the special officer could immediately stop the rally. The rally, which reached Kolkata, will be flagged off from a point between Shyambazar and Bagbazar on Friday morning.
 
 
