NEW DELHI: The   held its first   on Tuesday. There was a visible push for  , with one full section dedicated to it. However, for most students, the   conducted by the   were the  .

 According to officials, the conclave — to be held over two days and inaugurated on Tuesday — is a platform for students to interact with professionals and get their career-related questions answered. 
 
 Last year, the Delhi government had started conducting personalised aptitude tests for its school students. It also created a portal — and each student was given access to it — so that they would get an alert related to admissions and form deadlines. The assessment results were also given to the Guest Educational and Vocational Guidance Counsellors (EVGC) allotted to each school, who give the children one-on-one counselling.
 
 The career conclave was an extension of this exercise. It had its own set of teething troubles, though. For example, as some complained, that there was little information for students who have taken commerce in school. Mohammed Mubil, a Class XII commerce student, complained that there was nothing for him at the conclave, though it was a fun experience to be there among friends and see options available to them as students. 
 
 “I really liked the interaction with the Navy personnel, though I am not going to chose that as a career option. I want to join a bank, but there was nothing on that for me here,” Mubil said. “There is more here for science and arts students,” added another student.
 
 The conclave also gave children a few options in hand, even for those interested in arts and engineering. For example, while the focus was on government schemes and schools that give children access to vocational training, several kids were unhappy to find that not much was told to them about engineering and medicine at the conclave. A class X student told TOI that he wanted to pursue engineering after school, but had no idea about the IITs. 
 
 Stalls were also dedicated to NIOS and Patrachar. Interestingly, Ambedkar University, known for its liberal arts education, had also showcased only the School of Vocational Studies at the stall, while the other courses were listed on an A4 sheet. Also present at the conclave were a stall on Delhi University, which remained deserted for a large part of the day, Jamia Millia Islamia and IP University.
 
 However, it was the interaction with the armed forces personnel that encouraged children and touched a chord. “I want to join the army,” said Sonu Rajak, a Class 10 student from Kiran Vihar. 
 
 
