Coimbatore: The regional science centre and science museum on Avinashi Road in the city will soon get a nuclear zip gallery (a miniature version of hall of nuclear power). The gallery will have models of nuclear reactors along with audio-visual elements and information panels. It will be set up in a 500-sqft area at the centre in collaboration with the Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL), said officials at the centre.

 NPCIL has already provided the centre with a model of a 220MWe pressurized heavy water reactor. The model, fitted with coloured LED lights, has options for playing 3-minute audio recording which explains about the reactor’s working in English, Tamil and Hindi.
 
 Officials from NPCIL said the gallery was part of a pan-India project to set up nuclear zip galleries at regional science centres. An official said the gallery would be a miniature of the hall of nuclear power at Periyar Science and Technology Centre, Chennai. “The hall of nuclear power would have a complete presentation on nuclear power, but a zip gallery would present a crisp version of how nuclear power is produced,” the official added.
 
 Officials at the regional science centre said they expect the gallery to come up in six months. Models of reactors such as Water-Water Energetic Reactor and Boiling Water Reactor will come up at the centre, they said. “There will also be panels on methods of nuclear power generation and safety measures followed in nuclear power stations,” said an official. 
 
 “Once the gallery is set up, we plan to conduct several activities to create awareness on nuclear power generation. We are planning to rope in experts to give talks on the topic,” the official added.
 
 The regional science centre has around 200 exhibits in three permanent galleries. The centre also has a temporary exhibition hall. The facility also has an inflatable planetarium, a 3D film show facility, an auditorium, a conference hall and a library. 
 
 The centre gets a daily footfall of 300 people, most of whom are students brought from schools, said officials at the centre.
 
 
