CHANDIGARH: Less than a year ago, city residents were pressing for lifting of embargo on conversion of leasehold residential properties to freehold. For them, the issue was so important that it was repeatedly taken up with the Chandigarh administration and elected representatives. Complaints were even lodged with the Prime Minister’s Office ( ) against the administration for going slow on the issue. The embargo on conversion of properties had also been projected by various pressure groups in the city as a “hurdle” in the growth.

 
 
  
 
 Residential properties in city were freely allowed to convert to freehold till April 2012, when the practice was discontinued. The decision to again allow conversion of leasehold residential properties to freehold was announced in August last year. All the hype, however, fizzled out soon after local MP   made the announcement on August 18, 2017 amidst much fanfare.
 
 There are around 50,000 leasehold properties allotted by the   (CHB) and estate office in different parts of the city. However, only 30 have been converted to freehold since resumption of conversion last year.
 
 
 
 
 The residents are blaming high rates of conversion fixed by the administration as the main reason for poor response.
 
 The administration had fixed the conversion rates of flats allotted by CHB and estate office on a pro-rata basis (proportionate allocation according to share). For plotted houses, residents will have to pay conversion charges calculated as per the formula prescribed in the Chandigarh Conversion of Residential Leasehold Land Tenure into Freehold Land Tenure Rules, 1996. Earlier, the administration was charging only Rs 1,710 per square yard for plotted houses.
 
 The administration was forced to fix the rates as per prevailing “Not many can afford such huge amount of money,” rued Panchhi.
 
 
 
 Majority of group housing societies are not eligible for conversion as the land on which these societies were constructed is yet to be transferred in their name. To avail of the benefit, the group housing societies will first have to get the land transferred in their name, which again requires a hefty payment. market rates (collector rates) as it was directed by the ministry of home affairs ( ).
 
 Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, chief adviser of the Property Consultants’ Association, said Rs 8,383 had to be paid for a plot measuring 150 square yards as conversion charges, but now the amount had shot up to Rs 3 lakh. In case of a 500-square-yard-plot, conversion charge now would be Rs 84.4 lakh, which earlier was only Rs 69,178.
 
 Most societies don’t even have occupation certificate (OC) from the administration. This document certifies that the construction has followed the building code and the structure is in a condition suitable for occupancy. Of the city’s 112 group housing societies — in Sectors 48, 49, 50, and 51 — only 10 have land in their name and only 35 are on freehold land. Group Housing Co-operative Societies’ Welfare Council chairman Satish Chandra Sharma said different societies have started the process of collecting funds from their members to get the land transferred in their names so that they could then apply for conversion.
 
 
 
 
 The conversion rates are high as they are calculated as per the collector rates, or the lowest rate at which a property is registered. It is fixed by the administration and revised every year. The existing collector rates in Chandigarh are higher than Panchkula and Mohali. At present, collector rates in many areas of the city are disproportionately higher than the actual property rates.
 
 Reduction of collector rates will bring down the conversion rates. The administration from past two years has been reducing the rates by up to 20%. MP Kirron Kher has also asked the administration to cut the collector rates so that residents can benefit.
 
 
 
 
 The UT administration is yet to resume conversion of 2,000-odd industrial leasehold plots to freehold. The administration had set up Phases I and II of the Industrial Area on 147 acres allotted between 1973 and 1982.
 
 
