Jaipur: Three days after busting a gang involved in manufacturing of spurious and   and drugs, the ISC crime branch of   on Tuesday have busted a factory involved in the manufacturing of fake medicines in Bhiwadi town of   district. It was a joint operation in which the factory owner   (31) has also been arrested.

 On March 17, the ISC crime branch had raided a place and arrested two persons, including one Bijendra Singh, a native of Haryana and Ashok Kumar and native of Delhi. During then heavy amount of spurious medicines and equipment were seized.
 
 
 “During the investigation, we came to know about a similar factory operating in Bhiwadi town of Alwar district. Thus, in a joint operation along with the drug controller office, Rajasthan, we have arrested one Naveen Bansal,” said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner (Crime) while talking to TOI over phone from Delhi.
 
 The accused was arrested on Tuesday and the Delhi police, crime branch have also taken him in police custody of 10 days. “He would be interrogated on various things including where he has been supplying these medicines,” said a senior officer of crime branch on the condition of anonymity.
 
 According to the drug controller office, the medicines worth nearly Rs 50 lakh were also recovered from the Bhiwadi area. “We have found that the packing material of the medicines were of different companies. Accused is also found packing medicines and selling it with the name of various branded companies,” said Ajay Phatak, drug controller.
 
 It was also a violation of Drug and Cosmetics Act, he added.
 
 Accused was found allegedly manufacturing antiulcerant and antibiotics including Pentocid DSR, Taxim O, zifi-200 and pen-40.
 
 Local police in Bhiwadi said that they were unaware of any such arrest from their area.
 
 It may be recalled that   had arrested two persons for allegedly manufacturing and supplying spurious medicines. During then a heavy amount of these medicines, equipment and material was recovered.
 
