CHENNAI: The city police on Tuesday dispatched a team of investigators to Kolkata in hot pursuit of the prime suspects in a weekend break-in at the   branch in  .

 
  
  
 The team set off on a day of rapid developments in the probe, with two customers, Maria Anbalagan, of Chennai, and Suchitra, of Abu Dhabi, whose lockers the gang looted, confirming that they had lost gold jewellery and precious stones worth at least Rs 40 lakh — significantly more than early police estimates. The KK Nagar police, who started the probe, on Monday said the burglars had taken just 80g of gold worth around Rs 2.3 lakh and a bag of silver jewellery.
 
 Also on Tuesday, investigators confirmed that  , 38, a security guard from Nepal who had worked at the bank for five years, was the key suspect. They said new evidence — forensics experts linked three sets of fingerprints from the crime scene to the suspected burglars — indicated that Shabi Lal’s son Dillu, 18, took part in the crime.
 
 “It appears that the pair had an accomplice,” a senior police officer said, adding that investigators had taken a flight to Kolkata on a tip that they may have taken the Coromandel Express to Howrah station that departed from Chennai Central at 8.30am on Monday. “We intend to stop them before they get to Nepal. Another police team will cover border crossing points.”
 
 “We have requested the Nepal police to help us arrest the suspects,” he said. “They have photographs and ID cards we seized from a house in Vellavedu near Tiruvallur, where the guard’s family stayed.”
 
 Shabi Lal had sent his wife Sushma, 35, and daughter Pushpa, 14, back to their hometown in Nepal two months ago, another police officer said. “Neighbours said the couple’s son   stayed on his own in the house after that.”
 
 Shabi Lal, who used a gas cutter to break open a grille and gain access to the bank vault, stayed in a back room attached to the branch. “We found the guard’s Aadhaar card and state government-issued ration card,” the second officer said.
 
 In a police complaint on Tuesday, Suchitra said 1kg (125 sovereigns) of gold jewellery, diamonds and rubies worth Rs 34 lakh were missing from a bank locker that she had taken on rent. She was in Abu Dhabi on Monday night when bank officials informed her about the theft. Maria Anbalagan said she lost Rs 7.46 lakh in of gold and silver ornaments.
 
 
