New Delhi: Twenty years ago, an additional DCP named Vivek Gogia and an SHO named inspector Surender Sharma had come in the line of fire for their “shoddy” probe in the Jessica Lall murder case. Sharma was the IO in that case, and controversy had resulted in the registration of an FIR against the investigation team. 

 Fifteen years after that, their paths crossed again when   died. Gogia was then a joint CP and Sharma the area ACP where Pushkar’s body was found. 
 
 The investigation generated a lot of bad buzz initially with allegations of botch-up and protocol violation. Though the police maintained that they were doing a professional job, lack of any visible action was what brought the police under scanner. 
 
 “An eerie silence had prevailed at the scene of crime as the deceased was the wife of the Union human resource development minister and Congress was the ruling party then. There was no place for any laxity. However, we were indeed hesitant in following the laid out procedures like seizures etc as we would do in a normal case. Everything was being done after orders from high command,” a source in the first SIT recalled.
 
 The first in a series of controversies arose when there were reports that an IG-rank officer gave   his phone instead of seizing it at the spot. His medical examination also couldn’t be conducted as he got himself admitted to a hospital the day after complaining of chest pain. 
 
 Another twist came when the then police chief, B S Bassi, transferred the case to Crime Branch and then took it back within a few hours. It was said that Crime Branch wanted to register a murder FIR to begin probe. 
 
 Months later, the AIIMS medical board reprimanded the police for collecting evidence casually, following which a police team went to the Leela hotel to collect pieces of broken glass and stains on the carpet and curtains. 
 
 The next controversy was triggered when an SIT formed to probe the case was virtually dismantled. The IO was shunted out to a security unit and the DCP was virtually forced to move out.
 
 Since June 2014, things speeded up, a top source said. On January 1, 2015, a murder FIR was lodged and a DCP named Prem Nath was sent to an FBI lab with the viscera samples.
 
 New officers were brought into the SIT, mobile numbers were intercepted, Tharoor was interrogated and his aides put through “third degree” as alleged by him in a letter to Bassi. A separate EOW probe into alleged irregularities in an IPL franchise began separately. Polygraph tests and raids were conducted, and Pakistani columnist Mehr Tarar was questioned too.
 
 However, forensic autopsy on suspects gave case a new lease of life.
 
 
