DEHRADUN:Union HRD minister  , who was in Dehradun on Friday said that the recent bypoll results were not a reflection of any change in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity or the performance of his government. Claiming that the   will return to power at the Centre even stronger after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the minister said, “We have seen that wherever the PM has held his rally, his popularity has been immense and the craze that people have for him is undiminished.”
 
  When queried on why the ‘Modi magic’ didn’t work for the BJP in the recent bypolls, Javadekar said, “As far as the bypolls in UP are concerned, the voting percentage was quite low – realistically speaking, it was just around 40% and this affected our performance.” He added that there was “a big difference in an election and a byelection.” “To illustrate with an example, the polling in the general elections in Kairana was 73 per cent, which dipped to 53 per cent in the bypoll. Eight lakh people were voting earlier which dipped to 3 lakh. So this will definitely affect the results.” He further said that “bypoll results cannot be a pointer to what is going to happen in the general elections.” “In any case, Modiji was not in the picture in the bypolls. He did not go anywhere. So it shouldn't be perceived as a verdict on his government under whom the country is doing well on every front," the minister said.
  
  He added that in the last four years of   rule, there had not been a single corruption charge against any minister. “Unlike the previous Congress regime, we have put in place a system under which corruption cannot grow, by eliminating middlemen. Now 100 per cent of the money released by the Centre under welfare schemes reaches the beneficiaries," he said
  
  He also sought to disprove the perception that power was centralized in the hands of PM Modi and  . “They play the role of guiding us but all of us (ministers) have the freedom to take our own decisions," Javadekar said. On being asked about the opposition parties coming together and whether it was a threat to the saffron party, the 67-year-old politician said that opposition unity was a distant dream. “The main hurdles to opposition unity will start when it comes to seat sharing between parties of different backgrounds.”
