Love is a mighty force and the definition of love differs from person to person. As   said, "Love is blind and lovers cannot see" and in comparison,   said, "Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies" - no two definitions can be alike.

 And to explore this feeling,   has come up with the love saga of a lifetime -  .
 
 The inspiration   got for his enchanted realm of writing was his love for wordplay and to convey the greatest emotion, at the stroke of his penmanship.
 
 His penchant for penning down a clean story filled with love and longing is what began as an inspiration for this story, written during his tenure in college.
 
 Initially touted as a simple story, a revisit in later years unearthed a layered approach towards storytelling which added a couple of myriad layers to the story.
 
 A full-fledged story, transpiring across eras, was in order and Hamid found the impetus to rise up to this challenge.
 
 With age and time, Hamid's approach towards his craft matured, giving rise to endless possibilities.
 
 The initially printed 2500 copies sold off like bestsellers, as he embarked on a journey towards fame and recognition, printing 1000 more copies to cater to the overwhelming positive response.
 
 The book witnessed another set of positive feedback, with close to 2000 digital copies being downloaded on Kindle. This has propagated Hamid to jet set towards venturing into a new project, "The Lesser Red", which is scheduled to be launched later this year.
 
 "I am thrilled with the success of my book that holds a special place in my heart. Love is a mighty force which not only shapes your character, but also gives you the strength to make the difficult choices. Love goes beyond all orders to deliver a feeling that is universal to all the segments of the population, irrespective of their age, cast and creed. I have tried to prove the same through Little Maryam, as it takes you through all the troughs and crests of sheer madness, called love," Hamid Baig said.
 
