MUMBAI: One of the people accused in the   case, Yug Tulli, co-owner of Mojo's Bistro, surrendered before   on Tuesday morning.

 Tulli was arrested for culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with the fire tragedy that claimed 14 lives. He will be produced before a court later in the day.
 
 The 29-year-old co-owner of Mojo's Bistro surrendered at the N M Joshi Marg police station, a day after a sessions court rejected his anticipatory bail application.
 
 Tuli had been on the run - around the country - since his name was included in the FIR on January 6 as one of the people accused. A 'look out notice' had also been issued against him at all the airports in the country. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Mumbai police, which had been trailing him, missed him in Hyderabad just by 50 minutes. 
 
 Seeking pre-arrest bail for his client, Tuli's lawyer contended that the devastating fire at Kamala Mills on December 29 had erupted in from the adjoining 1Above pub. Therefore, the owners of Mojo's Bistro could not be blamed for the tragedy, he argued.
 
 However, the prosecution said that a report of the   as well as eyewitnesses said the fire started at Mojo's Bistro.
 
 In its preliminary probe report, the Fire Brigade said the blaze possibly started at Mojo's Bistro due to flying charcoal embers from a hookah.
 
 The husband of Parul Lakdawala, one of the fire victims, had filed an intervention application, opposing the anticipatory bail plea of Tuli, saying that the latter was responsible for the death of his wife and others.
 
 The police have already arrested Yug Pathak, a co-owner of Mojo's Bistro.
 
 Pathak, the son of a retired IPS officer, and Tuli, a Nagpur-based businessman, were booked under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life and personal safety of others) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 The names of Pathak and Tuli were added to the FIR lodged on December 29 against the owners of 1 Above -- Kripesh Sanghvi, Jigar Sanghvi and Abhijeet Mankar. The three have now been arrested and remanded in police custody.
 
 On December 29, a fire swept through 1Above and the adjacent Mojo's Bistro at the Kamala Mills compound, resulting in the death of 14 people.
 
 
