CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu is facing a dual problem on the power front. While the coal stock on hand is hardly enough to meet power generation needs for a little over 8 days, the demand for power has been increasing steadily over the past few days.

 Demand for power in Chennai alone touched a new high of 2,800MW on Monday evening and the overall demand across Tamil Nadu increased to 14,910MW, a new high for this year.   normally has coal stock that lasts for 15 - 20 days.
 
 Tangedco officials told TOI that coal stock will last only till April 10 at the current rate of coal consumption, unless immediate steps are taken to increase the stock from  . Meanwhile, the   has been increasing due to domestic and   consumption. 
 
 “The coal stock a week back was for 15 days but due to shortage of railway rakes, the stock has come down to 8 days which is lower compared to the average stock. If the demand continues to be high, we will need not less than 72,000 tonnes of coal per day and to evacuate so much tonnes, we need at least 20 rakes,” said a senior Tangedco official. 
 
 The   started last September after the south-east monsoon when the coal stock came down to less than 5 days for Tangedco. But after a few months, the situation became better, with chief minister K Palaniswami writing letters seeking increase in coal supply to Tamil Nadu. 
 
 “We are hopeful of managing the coal shortage problem in the next few days, as we have asked for more rakes to transport coal from mines. We need more coal to meet the summer demand,” said a Tangedco power generation official. 
 
 Meanwhile, the power demand has been increasing the last few days. “Across Chennai city, the domestic demand has increased as residents have started using air conditioners to escape from the heat, as the demand is peaking during the evenings,” said the official. 
 
 Besides the domestic demand, agriculture demand is also on the rise. “Demand from farmers has been on the rise as many in the delta are using motors to draw ground water,” said the official. On the contrary, there has been no increase in demand from industries. “Demand from   is more or less static,” the official added.
 
 On the supply side, Tangedco is sourcing power from some northern states as part of swapping scheme. On the nuclear power front, only one unit in Kudankulam is working and the second unit will re-start only in May,” said the official.
 
 
