LUCKNOW: A 23-year-old BEd student allegedly committed suicide at her hostel room in Dr Shakuntala Misra   under Para police station on Thursday evening. She was found hanging from the grill of the window of her room in the evening.

 Later, students held a protest against university authorities for lack of medical facilities as there was no ambulance on the campus and the girl was rushed on a two-wheeler to the hospital where she was declared brought dead. The agitated students did not allow police to enter the premises till late in the night. They also vandalized university property.
 
 Identified as Parul, a resident of Deoria, the girl was a student of BEd Semester IV and lived in room number 219 of the hostel.
 
 
 
 The proctorial board got the intimation about the suicide at 7 pm. When we reached the hostel, she had already been rushed to hospital. The reason for suicide is not known as students are not allowing us to access her room. Her parents have been informed,” said proctor Rajiv-Nayan.
 
 Six companies of PAC were deployed outside the campus of the university as crowd of the students grew by every passing hour. However, students did not allow ASP (East), CO (Alambagh) or even any female officer to enter the campus.
 
 Circle officer, Alambagh,   said the room was locked and the police was yet to get access so we can't say if the girl left any suicide note before taking the step.
 
 Agitated over the incident, the students assembled outside the hostel and raised slogans against the university administration while demanding the vice-chancellor of the university to reach the scene. The deadlock continued till the last report came in.
 
 “Students said that when her roommate returned after a tea break in the evening, she found the room locked. When she didn’t open the door, she peeped through the window to find Parul hanging with a ‘dupatta’ from the grill. She raised an alarm and informed the hostel warden. The hostel staff and students broke open the door and rushed her to a private hospital from where she was referred to   where she was declared brought dead by the doctors.
 
 As the news of her death reached hostel inmates, a huge number of students got assembled on university campus and raised slogans against the university administration alleging that the girl was under pressure due to tough academic schedule. Raising anti-university slogans, students said had the ambulance reached on time, her life could have been saved.
 
 “No ambulance was available on the campus and she has to be rushed to hospital on a two-wheeler,” said a BTech student.
 
