It is disappointing for many men and women entering  . The beer gut, the spare tire, the muffin top … there are plenty of names to describe   fat. This "middle-aged spread" — the   we gain in our 30s and 40s, often around the middle — is an extensive phenomenon, and occurs because of a combo of physical and lifestyle changes. 

 Measuring your waist   can help you find out how much fat you have stored around your stomach. You can get an idea of whether or not you are at risk of obesity-related chronic diseases. Gaining few extra pounds during the year may not seem like a big deal. But these pounds can accumulate over the period of time. Carrying weight around your middle can make it harder for your body to control the levels of sugar in the blood, even if you have a healthy BMI. This can increase your risk of Type 2 diabetes. It can also make it harder for you to manage   if you have it. This is why it’s important to find out your waist measurement.
 
 Many of us underestimate our waist size. Your waist size is not necessarily your jeans size. Measure yours now by finding the top of your hip bone and the bottom of your ribcage. Use a tape, measure around your middle between these two points. For many people, this is near the belly button. A waist circumference of 102 centimeters (40 inches) or more in men, or 88 centimeters (35 inches) or more in women, is associated with health problems such as type 2 diabetes, heart disease and high blood pressure.
 The circumference of your waist is a good indicator of how much abdominal, or visceral, fat you have — the fat you carry around your middle, including your belly. A little bit of that sort of fat is useful which protects your vital organs. But abdominal fat also produces more of the inflammatory chemicals that interfere with the body's normal function than fat stored elsewhere on the body, like the buttock or thigh. When you have a lot of visceral fat, it releases these inflammatory chemicals which have profound effects on other parts of the body. That includes an increased risk of developing chronic diseases like heart disease and type 2 diabetes.
 
 So how do you give the spare type the boot? Give your body ample exercise; do not miss your planned days at the gym or the daily yoga sessions. Eat more fruit, vegetables, nuts, and whole grains, reduce on sugar, oil and fatty foods; replace carbohydrate rich foods with protein rich ones, drink loads of water and fresh juice, completely avoid soda; limit your intake of alcoholic beverages. Prevention is better than cure so check your BMI and waist size regularly. Make corrections in your exercise and diet regimes accordingly. 
 
 
 
 
