PATNA: With  , the headquarters of CM Nitish Kumar’s home district  , making it to the list of the Centre’s flagship ‘Smart Cities Mission’, the state urban development and housing department (UDHD) has pulled up its socks to start development work there without any delay.

 UDHD principal secretary Chaintanya Prasad said the project, which has been sanctioned by the Centre, would now be sent to the state cabinet for adoption. “A special purpose vehicle (SPV) will be formed and once it is approved by the state cabinet, the execution work will begin,” he said.
 
 The proposal submitted by Biharsharif focused on enhancing the quality of life of the residents. The proposals, shared by Biharsharif municipal commissioner Saurabh Jorwal, included 24X7 water supply, development of sewerage system and construction of 45 bio-toilets and underground storm drains.
 
 For providing better transport facility, Rs 43 crore will be spent on upgradation of Khandakpur bus stand, development of city e-rickshaw stand and setting up of charging points for electric vehicles. Another Rs 176 crore will be spent on re-designing all road junctions, especially Ramchanderpur Chowk on bypass, widening of road connecting Ramchanderpur Chowk to the railway station and construction of ropeway between   to  . Meanwhile, Rs 35 crore will be spent on construction of 80km-long pedestrian pathway and 20km cycle track.
 
 A sum of Rs 118 crore will be spent on development of commercial areas, which includes vending zones, re-development of municipal market, Ramchanderpur bus stand and railway station. Construction of a new skill training centre has also been proposed along with renovation of the existing skill training centre, training of self-help groups and development of tourist information centre. Altogether Rs 22 crore will be spent on these.
 
 Other proposals include promotion of agro-based products and development of logistics and trading hub in Bazaar Samiti area, cargo complex at railway station, redevelopment of Ramchanderpur industrial area, agro-based training and research institute and single-window clearance system for industries.
 
 For preserving natural resources and cultural heritage of the city, Rs 152 crore will be spent. Development of a riverfront with recreational facility, aeration of lakes, renovation of Badi Dargah and installation of rooftop solar panels on government buildings have also been proposed. 
 
 
