VADODARA: A day after vandalism at the   in  ,   held a meeting with the district judge J C Doshi and other judges to solve the burning issue of seating arrangement of lawyers.

 However, the meeting did not yield any result following which the lawyers continued their agitation. Meanwhile, seven advocates decided to go on an indefinite hunger strike “for the self-esteem” of the advocates.
 
 While announcing the details of the meeting to the agitating advocates, senior advocate Kaushik Bhatt said, “We had a meeting with the district judge and we also had a conversation with the registrar of the   high court. The registrar will meet the chief justice and justice Bela Trivedi and inform us about the time of our meeting with them.” “
 
 Bhatt added that the district judge will inform them about the alternative arrangement that can be done. “But we will continue our agitation peacefully and not enter the court premises,” he added.
 
 On Monday, the registrar general of the high court had to written to the district judge informing that the chief justice and other judges of the high court had decided to not allow advocates to place their own tables and chairs at any place in the main court building premises without district judge’s prior permission.
 
 The letter also stated that on the instructions of the justices, the district judge should seek assistance from the police department to ensure the safety and security of the judicial officers, staff members, litigants and public property of the Vadodara district court.
 
 Later in the evening, Edwin Dabhi, one of the advocates who had joined the hunger strike, collapsed due to sunstroke and was rushed to a private hospital on Old Padra Road.
 
 Court complex fortified
 
 The police had expected a major ruckus on Tuesday too, especially after an FIR was registered against 11 advocates and a mob of 150-200. To keep the situation under control, the city police had deployed a large police force inside and outside the court complex. Many policemen and women were stationed outside at the gates in riot control gear and a vehicle with water canon too was deployed so that an untoward situation could be brought under control immediately.
 
 Bar associations extend support
 
 The alleged attack on the lawyers by the police on Monday was criticized by different bar associations of the state. Ahmedabad Criminal Court’s Bar Association, Surat District Bar Association, Gandhinagar Bar Association, Mehsana District Bar Association, Panchmahal District Bar Association, Nadiad Bar Association and Bhavnagar Bar Association among several others have extended their support to the agitation of Vadodara advocates and they too boycotted court proceedings on Tuesday. Several office-bearers of these associations have even decided to come down to Vadodara to participate in the agitation.
 
 Friction between female advocates, women police
 
 When the advocates sat near the gates of the new court complex, there was a friction between female lawyers and women police. The women cops were jostled when one of them allegedly did not allow a lady advocate to sit. However, after intervention of senior police officials and male advocates, the situation was brought under control within few minutes.
 
 
