GURUGRAM: School students in Haryana are lagging behind those from the rest of the country, according to the National Achievement Survey (NAS) which was carried out in November. The survey covered students of classes III, V and VIII from government and government-aided schools across the country.

 Under the survey, students of classes III and V were given test booklets on EVS, mathematics, language (Hindi), while students of Class VIII were given test booklets on mathematics, language, science and social science. 
 
 The survey covered 22,191 Class III students from 1,255 schools, 24,250 Class V students from 1,258 schools and 23,095 Class VIII students from 1,053 schools across Haryana. Professor Indrani Bhaduri, head of the educational survey division at  , and national coordinator of NAS, said, “The learning levels of 2.2 million students from 1,20,000 schools across 701 districts in all 36 states/UTs were assessed. The findings of this survey will help guide education policy, its planning and implementation to improve learning levels among students at national, state, district and classroom levels.”
 
 On an average, a total of 58% Class III students of the state cleared the maths paper, 61% cleared the EVS paper and 65% cleared the Hindi paper. On the national front, these percentages are much better — 64, 65 and 68, respectively. 
 
 A total of 46% of Class V Haryana students cleared the maths paper, 52% cleared the EVS paper and 55% the Hindi paper. Again, across India, the percentages are higher at 53, 57 and 58, respectively. Similarly, 57% of Class VIII students cleared the Hindi paper, 37% the maths paper, 42% the science and social science papers. The percentages for students across the country are 57, 42, 44 and 44, respectively. 
 
 In particular, maths appears to be a major hurdle for students in the state. Muni Ram, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Kadipur, said, “There are 833 students in classes VI-VIII but only nine teachers in our school. We don’t have a designated maths teacher. One of the nine teachers gives maths lessons.” 
 
 The study shows only 50% Class III students in the state can read and write numbers up to 999 and 49% can solve simple problems, using addition and subtraction. Only 27% Class V students applied numerical operations in daily life and only 19% Class VIII students can find surface area and volume of cuboidal and cylindrical objects. 
 
 Another striking result that came out is that only 89% students in the state can understand what teachers say in class. Also, 27% of school buildings need significant repair. 
 
 The district-wise data shows Class III students in Gurugram schools lag behind students in Rewari schools, Class V students in city schools lag behind students in Jhajjar, Mahendragarh, Rewari and Faridabad schools, and Class VIII students in city schools lag behind students in Jhajjar, Rewari, Panipat, Mahendragarh, Sirsa and Hisar schools. 
 
 The gender-wise data shows the achievement of boys in the state to be behind the national average. A total of 41% Class VIII boys cleared the social science paper in comparison to 44% boys across the country. 
 
 Only 58% of Class III boys cleared the maths exam in comparison to 64% boys in India. Girls are doing better than boys but still lagging behind the national average. A total of 43% Class VIII girls in the state cleared the social science paper, whereas 44% girls across the country cleared it and 59% Class III girls in the state cleared the maths exam, whereas 64% girls across the country cleared it. Deepti Boken, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Farrukhnagar, said, “Boys don’t pay attention in class. Girls ask us to hold more classes, so that they don’t have to do household chores.” However, Bhaduri said, “The difference is not much when it comes to the gender score.”
 
 The report on social groups show general category students are doing better than SC, ST and OBC students. In the state, as many as 57% Class III students from ST and SC backgrounds, and 60% from OBC background, cleared the maths paper, in comparison to 61% from the general category in the state, and 67% general category students from across India. 
 
 
