PATNA: Eighteen Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and 208 Bihar Administrative Service (BAS) officers in the state are facing   on charges of corruption, misuse of office and dereliction of duty.

 According to a report prepared by the general administration department (GAD) recently, 12 IAS officials have been facing departmental proceedings from the period before March 31, 2016. The state government initiated similar proceedings against six more IAS officials between April 1, 2016 and February 2018. 
 
 Similarly, altogether 145 BAS officers had been facing departmental proceedings before March 31, 2016. The state government initiated similar proceedings against 63 more BAS officers between April 1, 2016 and February 2018.
 
 These officers apart, 94 employees of Bihar Clerical Service are also facing departmental proceedings on various charges of corruption, misuse of office and deliberate negligence of duty.
 
 “If the clerical staff are included, the total number of state government officials and employees facing departmental proceedings will come to 320,” a GAD officer told TOI on Friday.
 
 He said under the departmental proceedings, a senior officer of the department concerned conducts an internal inquiry into the allegations against the person in question. “If the charges against the official/employee are found to be very serious in nature, the matter is referred to the departmental inquiry commissioner for further action,” he said.
 
 He also said three IAS officials have been suspended for serious charges of corruption against them. One of them, Sudhir Kumar, has been in jail since February 24 last year on the charge of leaking question papers of a recruitment examination conducted by the Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC). Sudhir, a 1987-batch Bihar cadre IAS official, was the BSSC chairman at that time. Three of his relatives, including his brother’s wife and a nephew, were also arrested in the question leak case.
 
 Other two IAS officials under suspension are S M Raju (1991 batch) and Deepak Anand (2007 batch).
 
 An official said the Vigilance Investigation Bureau sleuths also arrested 83 officers/employees while accepting bribe in 2017. 
 
 
