Rajkot: The Rajkot district administration on Wednesday paved the way for a new Racecourse like open space by handing over the possession of 1 lakh square metre land to Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) at Ghanteshwar. The civic body has planned a massive beautification project of the lake there along with development of land on its periphery. Chief minister Vijay Rupani is expected to lay the foundation stone of the project later this week. According to an RMC official, the project New Racecourse — as it is called— will have jogging track, amphitheatre, art installations, play area for children, toy train and much more. This will be much bigger than the present Racecourse which is in the centre of the city, they added. In first phase, the lake which is in bad condition will be deepened at the cost of Rs 1.59 crore. The lake is currently spread over 68,000 sqmt area. Deepening of the lake will be completed before monsoon. The beautification and development of the lake and the land surrounding it will be taken up in second phase, after monsoon. The New Racecourse project on the New Ring Road will be developed under the smart city project.  The New Racecourse will have a bicycle track, a jogging park surrounding the lake, besides three colourful fountains. There will also be art installations, exhibition area and a special children play area. A toy train has also been planned.  Further, RMC plans to develop a special food zone inside the New Racecourse. The new attraction will be artificial trees with solar panels. This trees will work as shades for people and at the same time generate solar energy which will be used for electrifying the park. Other facilities include free Wi-Fi and special sitting arrangement around the lake.  RMC commissioner Banchha Nidhi Pani said, “We plan to finalize an agency to develop the New Racecourse during the monsoon period and after the season we want to start the beautification work. Since this is being developed under the smart city project, budget will not be a constraint.” 