JAIPUR: 
  have rung the alarming bells for ruling BJP, both at the Centre and in the state. People in two parliamentary constituencies and one assembly seat spread across three regions of the state have completely rejected BJP by giving a clean sweep to Congress in the bypolls held on January 29. 

 In the results declared on Thursday, Congress recorded comfortable victories in Ajmer and Alwar Lok Sabha seats as well as in Mandalgarh assembly (in Bhilwara district) seat. All three seats were earlier held by BJP but the deaths of its MPs and MLA necessitated the bypolls. 
 
  
  
 
 The Congress wrested the Mandalgarh assembly seat in Rajasthan from the BJP and was on the road to victory in both the Ajmer and Alwar Lok Sabha seats. Congress candidate Vivek Dhakar trounced Bharatiya Janata Party's Shakti Singh Hada by 12,976 votes. While Dhakar got 70,146 votes, Hada secured 57,170 votes. 
 
 In Ajmer, with 61 per cent of the vote count over, Raghu Sharma of the Congress was leading by 77,868 votes by securing 391,754 votes. The BJP's Ram Swaroop Lamba had got 313,706 votes. In Alwar, after 82 per cent of the vote count done with, Karan Singh Yadav of the Congress was leading by 144,914 votes. He had garnered 520,434 votes, leaving behind Jaswant Singh Yadav of the BJP at 375,520 votes.
 
 What should worry BJP more is that Congress has taken a lead on all 17 assembly segments - eight each in Ajmer and Alwar parliamentary constituencies and one Mandalgarh seat - in the bypolls, which were dubbed as semi-finals before the assembly elections due in December. 
 
 Initial reports suggest a massive swing of vote percentage in favour of Congress in these assembly segments as compared to 2013 and 2014 elections.
 
  "Since people have given a lead to Congress in all 17 assembly segments, which are spread across different regions of the state, it's a clear rejection of BJP and its policies. Chief minister  , who got a splendid opportunity with a massive mandate in 2013, failed on every front in fulfilling people's expectations. She should now resign on moral grounds," said  , the PCC chief. He added, "Since these elections for parliamentary seats were held after 'notebandi' and GST, it is a mandate against the BJP government at Centre too. Congress will make a comeback not only in Rajasthan this year but also in other states and at the Centre." 
 
 Chief minister Raje later tweeted, "We have worked tirelessly over the years, with the people of Rajasthan as our centre of attention and shall work harder, with renewed fervour and dedication, taking our beautiful state to new heights."
 
 
