JAIPUR: There is some relief for students who have completed their MBBS and internship as the Medical Council of India (MCI) has given permission to increase PG seats in clinical courses in five government medical colleges, including Sawai Man Singh Medical College in the city.

 The relief has come after MCI recently denied permission to seven proposed government medical colleges as well as to start new PG courses in seven government and private medical colleges.
 
 It has now given permission on the condition that these medical colleges fulfill the norms to increase seats.
 
 The permission to increase 32 more PG seats will come as a relief for students and the medical education department.
 
 “The MCI has recommended increasing seats in PG (broad specialty) courses for the year 2018-19 in clinical subjects of government medical colleges/PG institutes across the country in the light of amendment in the teacher-student ratio,” says a letter issued by the Centre.
 
 “The MCI recommendation is subject to submission of an undertaking by the state health secretary stating that the institution will fulfill the minimum required facilities like infrastructure, beds, faculty and other necessary norms, failing which, the council/central government may withdraw the permission granted,” says the letter.
 
 The   in Kota is major gainer in seats, with the Centre approving 17 PG seats in anaesthesiology, obstetrics and gynaecology, and ophthalmology. Seven PG seats have gone to   in Ajmer, five to SMS Medical College, and two and one seats to colleges in Bikaner and Udaipur, respectively.
 
 According to the health department, there are all together eight government medical colleges and eight private medical colleges. These medical colleges have 2,600 seats for UG, 1,107 seats for PG and 97 for super specialty. Medical education department officials claimed that over the past four years, 1,000 UG seats (250 in government and 750 in private medical colleges) and 349 PG seats have been increased.
 
 
