NEW DELHI: When   revamped their squad for the 11th season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) at January’s player auction, hope was renewed for the franchise’s fans. Daredevils have perennially been laggards in the IPL, rarely reaching the play-offs despite having several big-ticket players, but when the owners roped in  , Jason Roy, Colin Munro, Glenn Maxwell and Trent Boult and bought back Kagiso Rabada and  , it looked like they had formed a squad capable of contesting the title in  .

 
 
 
 Four matches into the season, and Daredevils languish at the bottom of the points table with a solitary win from four matches. This has left skipper Gambhir bitterly disappointed, but equally surprised at the vitriol his team faces on social media. Writing in his column for 
 , Gambhir pondered the circumstances that have led fans of the GMR-owned franchise to question Daredevils’ focus and team selection while expressing hurt.
 
 
 
 “To my mind we now have a new body part – a smart phone. You just need to glance around and you will know what I mean. Currently India has 490 million smart phone users. Or, for those like me who are more comfortable with crore, 490 million equals to 49 crores. A healthy chunk of this number is on social media/Whatsapp and the other blah …blah… Many of these are sitting with their judgement glasses on, eager to hurl verdicts. As I was writing the column I got this one on my new team: “Drop Mohammad Shami and play Avesh Khan. Drop Vijay Shankar and play Prithvi Shaw. Besides there are too many Ds in the name Delhi Daredevils which is not a good sign as D stands for defeat,” wrote the 36-year-old.
 
  
  
 
 “With one win in four games, social media trial has begun for Delhi Daredevils. In the times when everything is judged on “trolls”, “hits”, “followers” or “likes”, it seems my team has committed some sort of crime. If we don’t react in a certain way it doesn’t mean we aren’t hurt.
 
 “We are all concerned that we conceded almost 200 runs in two consecutive games. We won against Mumbai Indians but even that night I went to bed worried. Yes, we should have been more competitive against Kolkata Knight Riders. But if you read what your smart phone has to say it would seem that we have given them a walkover!”
 
  
  
 
 Coming off the 2017   season in which they finished sixth on the points table with six wins from 14 games, Daredevils again face a very tough road ahead but Gambhir, who led Kolkata Knight Riders to two IPL titles, was not about to throw in the towel and urged the franchise’s followers to remain positive. 
 
 “One of my fellow captains – majorly bugged by the overtly demanding team owners – once said, “Everyone knows what should be the playing eleven. The trouble is no one knows who is this ‘everyone’? ” Like for a batsman form is one stroke away, in a team game winning combination is one win away. Just keep the faith or in social media glossary: just keep the “likes” coming,” wrote Gambhir, who is the IPL’s fourth-highest run-getter with 4210 from 150 innings. 
 
 “IPL is a sort of a tournament where it is crucial to get combinations right. I am not one to hide behind excuses but in a new team like ours getting right combinations can take a few games.”
 
 Daredevils next play Royal Challengers Bangalore on Saturday.
 
