PUNE: Digitally signed mutation extracts of land for nearly 30,000 villages in the state will be available online from May 1 ending a 16-year wait for digitisation. 

 People in these villages can download their   from two government websites-Mahabhulekh and Aaple Sarkar- from anywhere.
 
 
  
  
 
 State revenue minister   told TOI that of the 43,000 villages in the state, 30,000 villages will have digital land records in the first phase. Work for the rest will be completed by June.
 
 "These villages are in 250 talukas. The programme started in 2002 and will be completed this year. Maval taluka in Pune district is fully digital. There are some issues with mutation extracts in several talukas," Patil said.
 
 
 
 
 Land records across the state were available online in a read-only format and for official purpose.
 
 “Now, a citizen can access it from anywhere, download it from the government website, at kiosks in the collectorate or from the talathi office,” deputy collector Ramdas Jagtap said.
 
 He is the state coordinator of the programme under the digitial India land records modernisation scheme to ensure transparency and to reduce frauds in property deals.
 
 The 7/12 extracts or the mutation extracts are part of the land ownership register maintained by the revenue officials. It mentions the survey number of the land, the name of the owner, its cultivator, the type of cultivation and transfer of land from one owner to another.
 
 Jagtap said the land title document is essential to establish clear title and ownership and is widely used in rural and semi-rural land deals.
 
 “The state would get lakhs of requests for these land ownership records, every year. Now that is is a public document, it can be downloaded easily,” the revenue official.
 
 It will be free initially, but charged at Rs 15 per copy at the kiosks at the collectorate. Patil said that from May 1 there will be no manual signatures.
 
 “Corrections have been completed after a public reading in these villages and checking the record with the land holders. We now have an updated list,’’ the minister added.
 
 The state has nearly 2.5 crore 7/12 or mutation extracts that will need digitization. The digital signature will ensure that citizens don’t have to run to the tehsildar or any other revenue department office to verify the document.
 
 
