AHMEDABAD: Former IPS officer Rahul Sharma asked the special court hearing the 2002 Naroda Gam massacre case that if he had not disclosed the existence of the CDs with mobile phone data for the period of the   2002 riots, “how did the fact of the existence of the CDs come to the knowledge of the world at large”.

 Sharma said so in his reply to the SIT court, opposing a demand by an accused person during the trial to arraign him as an accused for destroying vital evidence in form of the CDs. Sharma was assisting the crime branch in investigating the post-Godhra riots cases and as part of the probe, he obtained call detail records from mobile service providers AT&T and Celforce.
 
 Sharma stated, “For some reason, the data in the aforesaid CDs were not analysed by crime branch, Ahmedabad city. The existence of the CDs was lost sight of. The question that arises is how did the fact of the existence of the CDs come to the knowledge of the world at large, including the investigating officers of crime branch?”
 
 Sharma gave information about the CDs to the Nanavati Commission in 2004. “Had I not disclosed information about the existence of the CDs, this crucial data would have escaped the attention of the   as well as the investigating agency,” Sharma stated.
 
 Sharma cited an order passed by the   (CAT), quashing a departmental chargesheet that accused him of destroying vital evidence in the riots cases, to argue that he cannot be prosecuted for information revealed during his deposition before the inquiry commission.
 
 Sharma also stated that there was no government sanction to prosecute him under section 197 of the CrPC, because he was a police officer then. He also claimed that no question has been raised about the authenticity of the data before the court, not even by the accused. The   has verified the authenticity of the data.
 
 Sharma also argued that there is no evidence that he destroyed evidence. He reiterated aspects of his earlier depositions that the CDs, after he copied the data on to his personal computer, were sent back to crime branch JCP P P Pandey, who later denied having received them. Sharma contended that in the absence of evidence of their destruction, it could at the most be said that the CDs were misplaced.
 
 Further proceedings in the trial will take place next week. Eighty-four persons were charged with killing 11 Muslims in this incident on February 28, 2002.
 
 
