 will probably want every one day game to be played in pink if one goes by the way fortunes turned their way at the Wanderers on Pink day. They have never lost a game played in pink uniform and did so again thanks to some rain that meant the match was reduced to the D/L method and some good fortune in a catch being missed and a no-ball negating a wicket that had been taken. David Miller who was the beneficiary on both the occasions then played some lovely shots to take the initiative away from India and Heinrich Klaasen playing in only his second game also took his chances and succeeded in hitting the spinners who had tormented the team in the first three matches of the series. 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 India’s decision to bat first can be questioned especially if they knew about the possibility of rains coming down later though the manner in which Kohli and Dhawan were toying with the Proteas attack it didn't seem to matter. As is well known the D/L method invariably favours the team chasing a target and that's what it did. India had earlier not helped its cause by not getting past 300 runs which they should have after Dhawan - Kohli duo batted so splendidly. The problem with batting first is the team seldom knows what’s a safe score and it was in trying to push the scoring rate that Kohli got out and missed out on another hundred which was there for the taking. Dhawan did not miss out this time but the rain interruption would have disturbed his concentration for he got out immediately after resumption of play.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Still the manner in which the Indians started their defence of their score made it look as if another win was on the way. It was that man   who gave the stagnant South African score just the push that it needed and then that no-ball from Yuzvendra Chahal gave South Africa the luck that it didn't have earlier.
 
 This is now the second time that a no-ball has cost India the match by giving a life to batsman who has gone on to turn the match around. With all the technology, available a no-ball in limited overs cricket is nothing short of criminal for it shows a neglect and laziness to stick to basics. Not only does it cost a run but it also means that the next delivery is a free hit which can actually free a batsman who might have been shackled till then which is what that Chahal no-ball did to Miller. Bumrah too is cutting it fine and he along with bowling coach must mark out his run-up so that it’s his toes and not heels that are touching the batting crease. This way even when he tries an effort ball he will still be behind the crease and not bowl a no-ball.
 
 India won’t be too worried with this loss as they know that it was the weather more than the no-ball that got them into that position. Good teams though learn from their previous mistakes and we will see if the Indians have learnt at Port Elizabeth.
 
 
