   chief   on Sunday said his party would contest next year's Lok Sabha and state assembly elections on its own. 

 This despite the   brass making peace overtures. During his visit to Mumbai last month, BJP chief Amit Shah said he hoped that the Shiv Sena continued to remain part of the NDA.
 
 Thackeray was in Nashik on Sunday to interact with party leaders and office-bearers of all parliamentary constituencies in north Maharashtra. He held separate meetings with the party's office-bearers of various constituencies like Jalgaon, Raver, Nandurbar, Dhule and Dindori in view of the coming Lok Sabha and state assembly polls. He has sought reports from each constituency about the party's strength and prospects.
 
 The legislative council polls are being held for six seats in the state, including Nashik. The Sena is contesting three seats. Thackeray said the party's office-bearers have been told to take a decision on supporting BJP candidates in the other three seats.
 
 Thackeray said that the party, which has a tie-up with the BJP in local bodies like the Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation, would not break ties till the term is completed. "The Sena is committed to this," he said.
 
 Asked whether the Sena and BJP will jointly contest further elections, Thackeray said, "We will contest the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections on our own. Hindutva and the interests of the common people will be our focus."
 
 Thackeray said there were no differences between party leaders in Nashik. "I don't think there are differences among party members at the local level. However, we will not spare anyone involved in anti-party activities," he said.
 
 Thackeray said the refinery would not come up at Nanar. "The notification has been cancelled. Lawmakers from Vidarbha are demanding refineries in their region and there is nothing wrong with that. On the contrary, the state should do this for Vidarbha's development," he said. Uddhav said Marathis in Karnataka should support the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti.
 
 
