TRICHY: ‘Nanthaai Vaazhi Cauvery’ that roughly translates to ‘You walk along flourishing lives on the banks’ is a profound reference made at Cauvery for sustaining agriculture and allied activities in the delta districts. However, for the farmers, it is an old story having no relevance now as kuruvai, the short term paddy cultivation, has not helped them significantly in past six years. What is affecting kuruvai is the low water level in Mettur dam, poor monsoons, and depleting groundwater table. As the protest seeking the constitution of the   ( ) spreads across the state, farmers said that establishing the board would ensure cultivation of kuruvai paddy crop to the full potential provided the proposed autonomous body regulates and discharges Tamil Nadu’s monthly share of Cauvery water.

 For the past decade, the delta districts had witnessed a slew of protests by political parties, farmers, and other organisations demanding the state’s share of Cauvery water. However, the protests did not evoke any response from the authorities as farmers could not sustain their protest for long. Moreover, many cultivated paddy using groundwater. But now, owing to depleting groundwater table and failing monsoons, farmers have no other alternative but to demand Cauvery water.
 
 The scheduled opening date of Mettur dam is June 12, but in the past 10 years, only on a couple of occasions the sluice gates were opened on or before June 12. The delay had wreaked havoc with paddy cultivation in the delta districts.
 
 Delta districts were earlier known for three-term cultivation - kuruvai, thaladi and samba. Now, we struggle for even one crop. If CMB is constituted, the monthly water share of   will be ensured, which will subsequently improve the water level in Mettur dam," Swamimalai Vimalanathan, president of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers’ Protection Association, said. Of the potential 1.19 lakh hectares in the delta districts, kuruvai cultivation was done on only 51,615 hectares last year owing to the poor water level in Mettur.
 
 For three straight years, Tamil Nadu government, to encourage farmers take up kuruvai cultivation, has been offering special package for delta farmers. But farmers allege the package is helpful for those in the groundwater surplus belt only. "Groundwater table in summer is gradually depleting across the delta districts as there is no rain to recharge the aquifer," an agriculture department official in a delta district said. As a solution, a section of farmers has suggested their counterparts to skip kuruvai and go for pulses cultivation, and later on, once the Mettur dam was opened, samba paddy cultivation could be taken up.
 
 
