 chief   said on Wednesday that he remains the best person to lead the social network despite acknowledging mistakes in underestimating abuse of the platform.

 Zuckerberg told reporters on a conference call that he accepted responsibility for the hijacking of private user data and other abuses, but when asked if he remained the best person to lead Facebook, he answered,"Yes."
 
 "I think life is about learning from the mistakes and figuring out how to move forward," the Facebook CEO said. "When you're building something like Facebook which is unprecedented in the world, there are things that you're going to mess up. What I think people should hold us accountable for is if we are learning from our mistakes."
 
 Zuckerberg, who co-founded Facebook in 2004, asked for another chance to lead the company. "This is a huge mistake. It's my mistake... Give me another chance," he said. Embroiled in a massive data breach following the   scandal, Facebook on Wednesday said data on about 87 million people - mostly in the   - may have been illegally shared with the London-based political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica. When asked if the company's board of directors has akked him to step down in the wake of the data scandal, Zuckerberg said: "Not that I am aware of... Nobody has been fired because of this scandal."
 
 Zuckerberg said the scandal has not much dented into its business. "I don't think there's been any meaningful impact that we've observed. But, look, it's not good ... It still speaks to people feeling like this was a massive breach of trust and that we have a lot of work to do to repair that," he said, seeking to downplay the sis. Shares of   rose as much as 4.2% on Thursday following the statement.
 
 Responding to a question, Zuckerberg said it will take years for Facebook to fix the problem. "It will be a multi-year process to combat disinformation," he said, adding that this will be a "never-ending battle"."I'm confident we're making progress against these adversaries but they're very sophisticated. We can't expect to fully solve a problem like this," he added.
 
