HYDERABAD: Hi-Tec City, Gachibowli, Banjara Hills, Secunderabad and other areas in the city will soon get piped natural gas as   (BGL) has decided to extend the city gas distribution project.

 Falling much behind the target of providing 2.66 lakh domestic piped natural gas ( ) connections in Hyderabad in five years, BGL has decided to lay 30 km of steel pipeline this year in areas like Hi-Tec City, Gachibowli, Tolichowki, Mehdipatnam, Masab Tank, Banjara Hills, Bolarum, Alwal, Secunderabad, Nizampet and Pragatinagar. So far, 40-km pipeline has been laid by BGL, but only 2,706 connections were given in areas like Shamirpet, Medchal and Suchitra, according to a BGL report.
 
 BGL officials said, currently steel pipeline works for 14 km were under progress out of which 6-km pipeline has already been laid. “The pipeline construction in progress will pass through Kukatpally, Balanagar, Chintal and  .”
 
 ‘Reluctant consumers now coming forward for piped gas’
 
 BGL official Gurunath Babu told TOI, “It will open up huge potential for compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas connections. Works at Medchal are also in full swing. Residential houses, which were earlier reluctant to take piped gas connection, are slowly coming forward.”
 
 BGL is in the process of completing 17 km medium-density polythene international network in Alwal for more PNG connections. BGL will set up mass flow meters at unloading points and a custody check flow meter at mother station. Though PNG has several advantages, consumers were not coming forward over safety of gas pipe maintenance. On June 18, 2016, an incident took place at NTR Statue in Medchal when the water department was digging the road for laying water pipeline and, the BGL gas pipeline got damaged.
 
 To check mishaps,   has recommended ‘Dial before you dig” notices should be supplemented by GIS mapping of the city gas distribution network to minimise damage by third party activities.
 
 In Vijayawada, BGL completed 34km of steel pipe network. In financial year 2017-2018, a steel pipeline of 20 km, 11CNG stations, 15 commercial stations and polythene grid of 497 km and 10,000 PNG domestic connections were targeted. APIIC has allotted land to BGL at Kondpally for inventory. In Kakinada, BGL laid 33.5km steel pipeline network. In 2016-17, BGL got 1.13 lakh standard cubic metre per day of natural gas. Reliance started supplying LNG for industry and commercial segments from August 2017.
 
