CENTURION: The teary-eyed press conference of right-arm medium pacer  , back in January 2017, when he announced he was quitting international cricket and heading to Hampshire, England, armed with a three-year Kolpak deal, is still fresh in the minds of South African cricket followers.
 
 'Hero or traitor?' went the headlines when, despite  's ( ) efforts to convince him to stay back and play for the country, Abbott decided to move on. Life had never been the same for him after he was dropped from South Africa's playing XI for the semifinal of the 2015 ICC World Cup in favour of  .
 
 South Africa's well-documented quota set-up - which is still spoken about in hushed tones around here and debated as good and bad in equal measure - had taken its toll.
 
 Year after year, be it Abbott or more recently the push to have Temba Bavuma in the playing eleven at the cost of  , considering the latter's unwillingness to commit to Test cricket on a long term basis, has been a thorny subject of discussion. While the 'quota system' epitomises South Africa's long quest for transformation from apartheid, cricket has been at its forefront in sending out this message globally.
 
 Back in India, reservation is the word to understand this very delicate African sensibility.
 
 On Wednesday, two black bowlers from the South African team made an attempt - a very small beginning at that, but, perhaps the most pertinent one yet - to mark a change.
 
 Debutant Lungi Ngidi and the world's top-ranked bowler   became the first black South African pair to polish off all the wickets in an innings. While CSA and the South African team management can very well do their quota calculation - 60 out of 110 SA caps have to be coloured, that's the rule - Ngidi and Rabada now present a scenario, which, colloquially put, is colourfully far more engaging.
 
 Ngidi, 21, was declared the manof-the-match at the SuperSport Park on Wednesday for his 6-wicket haul in the second innings. Rabada, a year elder to the debutant, picked up three. Between the two, they left every other bowler in the South African camp under their shadow.
 
 The South African team management's headache, to mathematically calculate the average number of coloured people match-by-match or make up for it by the end of the season under official directive, is certain to see some respite.
 
 "When new guys come into the team, from my side it's important to make sure they feel like they belong, but then for them to perform like this means they have good heads on their shoulders and don't see the occasion as too big. They just see it as another game where they can perform. When I looked at Lungi I never sensed any nerves. He was really calm and just wanted to bowl. His control impressed me a lot, which is a good sign for his Test career going forward," South Africa skipper Faf du Plessis said.
 
 For a team often left battling selection dilemmas, Ngidi's Wednesday triumph is a win-win for South Africa. Along with Rabada, the duo only helps reduce the country's quota calculation headache.
 
