MUMBAI: With just two rounds of league matches to go in the 11th edition of the Indian Premier League, it is a mad scramble between teams to make it to the playoffs. While Sunrisers Hyderabad and Chennai Super Kings have already made the cut - they would be at most involved in a fight to grab the No. 1 and 2 positions - the remaining teams, barring Delhi Daredevils, who have already been eliminated, are in with a chance to make it to the Playoffs.

 
 
 
 
 In that sense, the Mumbai Indians v Kings XI Punjab match to be played at the Wankhede Stadium on Wednesday evening is of critical importance to both teams. It is a virtual knock out game. Of course, mathematically, Mumbai could still be in contention to grab a playoff berth because of their impressive net run-rate.
 
 
 
 The performances of both teams involved in Wednesday’s match have been nothing short of contrasting. While Mumbai Indians started their campaign disastrously, only to bounce back into contention with wins at crucial junctures, Kings XI Punjab have jeopardized a decent start with three straight defeats.
 
 Considering the sequence of events towards the business end of the tournament, hosts Mumbai can be safely termed as favourites to win this encounter. They will have to fix one important issue when they take on Kings XI Punjab though. 
 
 Of the six matches they have played at home, Mumbai Indians have lost four. The string of losses began with a thrilling one-wicket defeat against Chennai Super Kings in the tournament-opener. Mumbai then went down against Daredevils by seven wickets. Against Sunrisers, the Rohit Sharma-led Mumbai were found wanting yet again and went down to Kane Williamson’s boys by 31 runs. Their most recent defeat at home was against Rajasthan Royals, where the visitors triumphed by seven wickets on Sunday.
 
 In between these losses, Mumbai accounted for two big teams in the form of Royal Challengers Bangalore, who they defeated by 46 runs and Kolkata Knight Riders by 13 runs. 
 
 The team management has noted this flaw and back-up wicketkeeper batsman Aditya Tare acknowledged that they have to iron out this blemish. “The major thing is that we have not been up to the mark at Wankhede. Usually, we are a very tough team to beat at home. Unfortunately, though, this has not been the case this season. That is the only worry for us,” Tare said on the eve of the match.
 
 The wicketkeeper, who has not yet played in a game, insisted the mood in the camp is upbeat. “The picture is quite clear, you win two games and anything can happen,” he said.
 
 The problem with Punjab, on the other hand, lies in their over-dependence on openers KL Rahul and Chris Gayle to score runs. Once the two are back in the pavilion, none of their batsmen have put their hands up and taken responsibility to see the team through. A case in point was the match against RCB on Monday.
 
