BENGALURU: Hundreds of   are queuing up for slots at the   being set up in  , and authorities claim the response has been overwhelming.

 By the end of this financial year, the state will boast of 337.2 acres dedicated for women entrepreneurs. They’re spread across six parks, with 194 acres set aside for future use. As of Wednesday, 920 applicants have reached the commerce and industries department and 210 have been cleared.
 
  
  
 
 
 There are women-only parks in Gujarat and Uttarakhand but not on this scale. Karnataka was the first to announce such an initiative in 2014, although implementation took longer. Of the six parks, the one in Harohalli has the most land — 300 acres with 106 in the first phase and 194 in the next —followed by 58.5 acres in Ballari, 50.7 acres in Kalaburagi, 48 acres in Mysuru, 44 acres in Mangaluru and 30 acres in Dharwad. “Layout formation process has begun in Harohalli, Kalaburagi, Dharwad and Ballari. We’ve issued notifications in Mysuru and Mangaluru,” M Byregowda, assistant director, Karnataka Udyog Mitra and nodal officer for these parks, said.
 
 Sources said applicants, who range from sectors as diverse as IT, ITeS, telecom and electronics to textiles, garments, food processing and manufacturing industries, have lined up investments more than Rs 290 crore and employment generation is in the range of 3,500 to 4,200.
 
 Old-age homes & creches
 
 The parks will, for the first time in the state, have old-age homes, creches and hospitals.
 
 Chief secretary K Ratna Prabha, who came up with this idea when she was additional chief secretary of the industries department, said: “The journey began in 2014-15, and to see the initiatives grow from just a few meetings with women entrepreneurs to forming of Ubuntu (a coalition of women entrepreneur associations), to having women-only parks, is more than satisfying.”
 
 Rupa Rani, state president, Confederation of Women Entrepreneurs (COWE) which is part of Ubuntu, said the government has done more than setting up parks: From a separate chapter in the industrial policy to a slew of concessions and subsidies, there are a lot of benefits for   and the industrial parks just take this forward. “We’re glad we have support, and are confident of growing our industries. Old-age homes for aging in-laws, creches for young mothers and hospitals will aid women perform a dual role,” she said.
 
 The high demand for space from women is not surprising. Of the 20.5 lakh MSMEs in Karnataka, 5.1 lakh are owned by women. Also more than 40% or 20 lakh of the 50-odd lakh employees in the   are women.
 
 
 
 
