CHANDIGARH: In another example of dog menace in Sector 49, after two consecutive incidents on Thursday and Friday, a seventy-six year old man was bitten by a stray dog right outside the rear gate of Pushpac Society, a residential society in Sector 49 while he was out for a morning walk around 6 am, here on Friday. 

 The victim, identified as B K Chaudhary, a resident of IAS/IPS Society, in Sector 49 A was attacked by the female canine from behind, while he had managed to walk past her, after trying to shoo her away with the help of stones and loud gestures. However, after sensing danger,   started walking a lot faster than usual and was then attacked by the canine and was severely bitten on his right calve, that caused him to fall down on the road. Chaudhary also bruised portion of his left knee, after the fall. 
 
 However, soon after, a second man, identified as  , 19, hailing from Jagatpura, was bitten by the same female canine, while he was on his way to his tutions, raising the cases of dog bite to four within the last three-days. Earlier on Thursday morning, a female domestic help working in Pushpac Society was bitten by the same dog, followed by a similar incident of dog bite involving another domestic help on Friday involving the same bitch.
 
 “This was so sudden. I don’t even know what happened to that dog. I have been going on morning walks in this area on the same route for almost twelve to fifteen years now, but never has something like this happened. I tried dodging her too, but to no avail. People told me that the bitch has recently given birth to some pups," said Chaudhary, DIG (Retd),   Police. 
 
 However, Chaudhary, who received a wound almost as deep as an inch due to the canine’s teeth, the bleeding could not have stopped until much later in the afternoon. “After being attacked, I realised I was alone at the spot and there was no one around. Hence, I dragged myself upto a park where I called out for one of my neighbours who took me to the hospital the Civil Hospital Sector 45,” he added. 
 
 According to Chaudhary, despite being administered with an Anti-Rabies injection and a tetanus, the hospital lacked a serum, and they were directed to the Sector 19 dispensary. However, the Sector 19 dispensary also lacked a serum and Chaudhary had to purchase the same for Rs 930 on his own to use it. “I had money because I am economically stable, but what if a labourer or a poor person faces the same problem, how will they afford this? It should be readily available at hospitals and dispensaries," added K.P Singh, a BSNL employee and victim's neighbour. 
 
 The residents of Pushpac Society, while speaking to TOI, complained about almost fifty stray   infesting the interior of the society since many months. “We are dealing with over fifty stray dogs in the society and this is such a big problem. Over eight incidents of dog bites have happened within the last three months. We have complained several times to the dog catchers, who even come with dog catching vans, but nothing has happened so far. They claim to sterilize them, but how can they be sterilized when at least 3-4 female dogs have given birth to pups recently. We had even written a letter to the MC three months ago, but nothing happened, said  , resident, Pushpac Society. 
 
 Moreover, the residents of Sector 49 also complained about other dog-friendly residents encouraging dogs to be around by feeding them biscuits, milk and bread which makes them infest the public parks too.
 
 
