G Ashok’s multilingual 
  ' ' releases today in 
 , 
  and 
 . Starring  ,   and Jayaram in lead roles, '
 ' charts the journey of a do-gooder who falls in love with her perfect counterpart. But what happens when she’s framed for a crime she did not commit and sent to a haunted house during the duration of her sentence? Will she make it out alive? Before 'Bhaagamathie' movie review is out, lets take a look at five reasons to watch the film:

 
 
 
 Anushka Shetty has through the years proven her versatility by picking varied roles. Be it Devasena of ‘Baahubali 2’ or Sweet in ‘Size Zero’, the characters she picks are always loved by many. If ‘Arundati,’ ‘Vedam’ and ‘Rudrama Devi’ took her to another level, ‘Bhaagamathie’ will surely give the star bigger scope. 
 
 
 While many in the Telugu states are excited about Anushka Shetty and the film being directed by the one who directed Nani’s famous ‘Pilla Zamindar’, the film also features Unni Mukundan and Jayaram who are well-known in their respective industries. The Tamil and Malayalam version also release on January 26, much to the excitement of fans. 
 
 
 Thaman is well-known not just for his songs, but also his background music. Judging by the trailer, the film’s BGM is all set to be taut and engaging, elevating the movie watching experience for the viewer. It remains to be seen how well the music will gel with the theme of the film.
 
 
 Judging by the trailer and promotional posters, the film does not shy away from showing some gore. While the sight of blood might be off-putting to some, gore is key to the effectiveness of certain films. ‘Bhaagamathie’ seems to be ticking all the right boxes for the gore fans. 
 
 
 While the script of ‘Bhaagamathie’ was penned by G Ashok in 2012, specifically keeping Anushka in mind, he waited four long years for her to give him the dates. While the team approached the actress and she had even liked the film, she was unable to commit due to her pending projects. The film was also delayed due to ‘Baahubali’, ‘Linga’ and ‘Size Sero’. The film finally commenced shoot in June 2016. 
 
