BHOPAL: After happiness,   now wants its elderly to feel elated. To be sure it happens, the state government thinks there is a need to sensitise youth on how to behave with elderly people.

 
 Trying to keep all sections of society happy in an election year, the state government has issued instructions to run a dedicated campaign throughout the state and the make the youths learn to respect the old-aged people.
 
 This decision comes after the government packed its employees on all-expense paid happiness trips and promised free of cost studies to poor children while introducing a slew of schemes to placate the farmers and rural residents and hiking retirement age of state government employees.
 
  has ideated the project and is implementing the concept. Officials said, initially a sum of Rs 10 lakh would be incurred to release hand-outs, pamphlets and brochures for the campaign.
 
 In addition, the divisional commissioners have been issued specific instructions on how to run the campaign. Department of social justice officials would visit educational institutes — schools and colleges and interact with the students to educate them on how to behave with elderly people.
 
 There are as many as 65 lakh people over the age of 60 in Madhya Pradesh. Social justice, disability welfare department’s principal secretary,   told TOI that the move is to ensure that the elderly people are not left alone and have a social safety net. It is a step towards integrating them in the society.
 
 Youths should come forward and speak out on the issues faced by elderly people and make them feel important. We want the youth to understand that there is life after 60 years of age and everyone will get old one day, he added.
 
 Officials said the instructions to the start the project have already been issued and the activities will begin within a month. Recently, the government has been raising issues of elderly people. It is also in the process of developing a state-of-the-art old age home in the state with star facilities. But, this will not come for free. Those willing to use the services will have to shell out money like in a hotel or guest house. The old-age home is being developed in 12 acres of land in   area. The home will have all the facilities from recreational to yoga and medical emergency.
 
 In another move, the government announced that free physiotherapy will be provided to all aged people in day care centres across the state. At a cost of of Rs 1.5 crore, the department of social justice would set up the physiotherapy centres in the existing ten day care centres across the state in the first phase.
 
 In second phase the physiotherapy facility would be extended to the remaining state, the officials said, adding that it would be first started in Bhopal followed by other major cities of the state, before extending the facility to all 51 districts.
 
 
