AMRITSAR: Shiromani Akali Dal-backed   faction of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) that lost to Santokh Singh group, have announced to file a complaint against the ousted CKD president Charanjit Singh Chadha for allegedly violating Akal Takht directives and putting his might behind Santokh Singh to secure votes.

 “Chadha had himself dropped several CKD members outside   in the CKD headquarters to vote,” alleged Majitha, while talking to TOI on Monday.
 
 
 When asked about the reason of his defeat with a mere margin of 10 votes, Majitha said, “We had done our best to stop male members with shorn hair and trimmed beards to cast their votes but a lot of female members appointed by Chadha still managed to poll their votes by covering their faces and head with dupatta,” he alleged.
 
 He said he would meet the   and handover complaint against Chadha, seeking religious action against him. “We have detailed evidence against Chadha and we will submit it to the Akal Takht secretariat,” he said.
 
 Notably, Akal Takht had on December 28, 2017 directed Chadha to not address or participate in any social or religious activities for two years, during which time, the Akal Takht would keep an eye on his character.
 
 The Akal Takht had given directions following an objectionable video of Chadha with a women principle of one of the CKD-run school that went viral.
 
 Majitha said he would context next general elections of the CKD scheduled for February 2019 and had begun preparations for the same.
 
 Another presidential candidate Dhanraj Singh who also lost to Santokh also blamed Chadha for helping the CKD members appointed by him. “He himself had been running a campaign in support of Santokh Singh,” he alleged adding that he wouldn’t file a complaint against Chadha with Akal Takht since the same would further denigrate the name of the CKD.
 
 When asked about next elections, he said he would contemplate over it and would contest if his health permitted him.
 
 Meanwhile, Santokh along with vice president   paid obeisance at   Sahib and held a meeting to discuss about the further development of the institution.
 
