NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   today demonstrated to Chinese President   how he used to serve tea as a humble 'chaiwala' many years ago, live feed from   showed.

 
 This is what transpired. Modi and Xi took a leisurely boat ride on the picturesque   in Wuhan city on the final day of an ice-breaking summit. On disembarking, they were greeted with steaming cups of tea.
 
 After sipping on the the hot beverage from miniature tea cups, Modi had an animated discussion with Xi and the attendants conducting the tea ceremony. The Indian PM curiously peered into the colourful tea pots in which the tea leaves were steeped, before reaching for a silver kettle placed next to them. 
 
 While we can only conjecture what Modi told Xi and the others, his gestures made it apparent that the Prime Minister was displaying how he served tea to his customers when he was a tea seller on a railway station in  .
 
  
  
 
 In the course of his 24-hour stay in Wuhan, PM Modi has struck a warm and friendly rapport with Xi through intimate conversations, a visit to the Hubei Provincial Museum and a lavish banquet dinner where Chinese musicians serenaded the two leaders with an instrumental rendition of the classic Hindi song "Tu, tu hai wahi dil ne jise apna kaha". 
 
 Modi later said he held "extensive and fruitful" talks with the Chinese premier during the first round of the two-day informal summit.
 
 "I am very pleased to meet with President Xi Jinping in Wuhan. We conducted extensive and fruitful talks and exchanged opinions on strengthening India-China relations and other international issues," Modi said in a post in the popular Chinese social media Weibo, where he has 1,83,112 followers.
 
 Today, the second and concluding day of the summit, the two leaders were seen deep in conversation as they took a stroll and then navigated the blue waters of the East Lake on a house boat.
 
 Chinese state media has praised the tone of the trip so far.
 
 The overseas edition of the ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily said in a front page commentary on Saturday "two great countries ought to have great cooperation", and showed a large picture of the two leaders shaking hands.
 
 "There is reason to believe that this Wuhan meeting will increase mutual trust, manage and control disputes, deepen cooperation and lead to a new phase in China-India relations," it said.
 
 "It is quite clear that strategic agreement between the two countries far exceeds the specific differences, and the need for cooperation far exceeds local friction," it said.
 
