BHOPAL: A sloth bear strayed in Karond locality triggering panic and injuring some 10 people on Sunday morning. Forest officials said the bear entered the city through Nabi Bagh, lumbered to Shabri Nagar and Chopda Kalan on Bhopal-Vidisha Road.

 
  
 
 Soon after an alert was raised and forest officials launched a massive search operation in the area. Even after 10 hours of search, forest officials were unable to trace and rescue the bear.
 
 Officials said, the bear entered the   (IISS) campus in Nabi Bagh by jumping over the boundary wall. It was the same area where a tiger entered two years ago, sparking scare among people, officials said. It was around 7 in morning when the bear was spotted on the institute campus. Guards said there was no one at campus farm as it was Sunday. A guard spotted the bear and informed other employees.
 
 
 
 
 Institute director’s driver Sukhram and other guards attempted to capture the bear, but the omnivore attacked and injured the driver. The bear then ran towards Shabri Nagar and injured a youth on the way.
 
 As it moved, bear attacked a woman injuring her with claws. Around half an hour later, the ferocious bear reached Rusalli Kheri, injured four persons and moved towards Shabri Nagar where it injured three persons, including a 10-year-old girl. After that it entered Rusalli Kheri village and injured three persons.
 
 As per forest officials, from Rusalli Kheri village, the bear walked towards Chopda Kalan village but copuld not be traced. Forest officials burst crackers to scare the animal, but their efforts proved futile.
 
 District forest officer SC Tiwari said, “Soon after we were informed about the incident, a search team was deployed in the area. We carried the search operation till late evening, but could not locate the animal after Chopda Kalan.” “Rescue operation will be resumed on Monday morning,” Tiwari said. “Within seven hours, the bear moved from Nabi Bagh to Chopda Kalan and injured several people out of fear.”
 
 “The forest department will bear medical expenses of those, who were injured. For immediate help, family members have been provided a interim relief of Rs 5,000. As per rules, we can give maximum of Rs 3 lakh in such cases.”
 
 
 
 
 Sukhram Sen, 51, who lives in family quarters on IISS campus, works as a driver. He recounts, “I was walking in garden when I received a call that a bear entered the campus. 
 
 Four of us rushed to the spot. We took sticks to drive away the omnivore from the campus. When the animal attacked, security supervisor Anurag and I stood there while the other two ran away. 
 
 It attacked on my neck. The bear bit on my wrist. He would have dragged me to death, if Anurag had not rained stick blows on the bear.” Sukhram was rushed to a private hospital where he got nine stitches.
 
