Nagpur: Even as pre-farming operations have started at Pandharkawda in Yavatmal district, and man-animal conflict is expected to raise its ugly head again, the three-month-long operation to capture a problem tigress is coming to a naught due to lack of trained elephants and full time vets. Problem tigers have killed 10 persons in last 21 months in Ralegaon forest area under Pandharkawda division. After the last human kill on January 29, orders to shoot the tigress were changed to capture the big cat since it was found to have two 4-month-old cubs. “Over last three months, forest teams have failed to trap the tigress due to lack of full-fledged veterinarians and elephants. A fresh human kill will lead to disaster,” warned Yavatmal honorary wildlife warden Ramzan Virani. In his complaint to PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra, Virani pointed out, “No doubt, field staff is continuously monitoring the animal, but there is no round-the-clock veterinarian. The vets here have other work in their own areas in Nagpur and Chandrapur. We need wildlife vets trained in handling the situation and a rapid response unit (RRU).” Sources said that in the last three months, the tigress was unsuccessfully darted only once at Borati nullah, on April 9. “On April 11, the big cat was spotted at Anji. It was hardly 20 metres away from the team in the lantana bushes. We were there from 7.30am till 6.45pm, but still couldn’t tranquillize it,” sources said. Yavatmal CCF PG Rahurkar was not available for comments. Pandharkawda DyCF KM Abharna said, “We have been doing our best with limited resources. Hostile terrain, dense lantana, no vehicle accessibility inside, and fragmented forest patches touching villages are hurdles.” Abharna said the forest is almost dry and teams waiting to tranquillize are clearly visible to the tigress. “It is risky to go close to the animal on foot. We even made a camouflaged stone wall, with vet Dr Chetan Patond hiding inside with a darting gun, but we failed,” she says. Virani says, “The operation is heading towards a dead end. A Tadoba elephant was sent here, but it used to chase the animal. We need at least three elephants trained in tiger tracking. Farmers have started visiting fields for soil work, and any fresh attack will spell trouble for the department. Delay will also make capture of tigress and growing cubs difficult after May.” Virani said mishandling of Ralegaon episode will also put the safety of nine cubs and seven adult tigers outside Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in jeopardy. Besides, dispersal of tigers is expected to continue with five adults and nine cubs present inside the sanctuary. “If right steps are not taken conflict will increase further. In the last three months there is not a single case of human attack, because farmers had harvested crop and were not regularly going to their fields. The tigress too was confined to Anji dam site, where human presence was nil,” said Virani.