LUDHIANA: Chief minister Captain   played a host to some of the prominent industrialists of Punjab and sought their   on the state’s  . 

 The industrialists were all praises for the new industrial policy and appreciated the effort put in by government and the officials who devised the innovative policy which puts existing industry at par with the new units in terms of incentives.
 
 According to sources, one of the major highlights of the meeting was the request put forward by some businessmen to set up a regulatory body to check the mushrooming of engineering colleges which are playing with the future of students by just awarding them “paper degree” sans any practical experience. 
 
 The CM took a serious note of this suggestion and promised action in this regard. In addition to this, the issue of high rate of power being charged from small industry and pending VAT refunds were some of the points which were raised prominently by businessmen.
 
 Meanwhile speaking to TOI, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of Avon Cycles, Onkar Singh Pahwa, who attended the meeting said, “It turned out to be a very good meeting and was conducted in a very friendly environment. Small industrial units engaged in manufacturing of bicycle parts are being charged very high rate of power and their VAT refunds are pending from quite some time now. These are the people who contribute in making 90 percent bicycles in the country and if their problems are not resolved it will have huge repercussions”
 
 According to  , managing director of the  , “CM asked us for suggestions and improvements for the new industrial policy. The policy is infact very good and favourable for both the existing and the new industrial units, particularly the provision of passing on the benefits at par to both old and new industries for modernisation. My only suggestion was the deadlines of any clearances to be given to the industry should be done within the stipulated time period”
 
 According to Akshay Bector, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of Cremica Foods Limited, “Punjab’s industrial policy is very well thought policy and this is working in the tandem with the union government’s policy in particular for the food processing sector. We apprised CM about Punjab’s industry being at receiving end as we are logistically at a disadvantage and only way out is to improve productivity and continuous innovation, so farm productivity and innovation should go further up and for that reason there is going to be a large opportunity for the food sector in Punjab”
 
