TUTICORIN: Terming Vedanta, the parent company of Tuticorin-based copper manufacturer Sterlite, as the major corporate donor of the BJP, CPM general secretary Sitaram   said a separate probe should be conducted by a commission chaired by a sitting high court judge to bring out the larger picture behind the killing and the role of the governments behind it.

 "Should not be surprised why Modi has not condemned the police firing that claimed 13 lives in  . He has not condemned any such incidents in the last four years. This raises the suspicion of political funding," he told reporters here on Sunday and claimed that Vedanta group is the largest donor of BJP since 2014. It could be the reason behind the copper smelter getting sanctions and environmental clearance by relaxing norms. Sterlite has managed to win the favour of the ruling party and that the closure of the plant with a GO by the state government will not stand before the court of law, he said.
 
 Addressing reporters after visiting the kin of those killed in the firing and those injured in the incident, the CPM leader said that the firing did not seem to be intended to disburse the crowd. The police are instructed to fire below knee to disburse the crowd. "But in Tutucorin, most of the protesters have suffered bullet injuries above the waist and chest. The protocol for crowd management and disbursal was not followed. In Tuticorin, firing was used as the first option. The police had come fully prepared," he said and suspected that the police acted on the orders of the state government.
 
 Not expressing confidence over the one member retired high court judge committee to probe the incidents, Yechury said that a sitting high court judge or central bureau of investigations under the monitoring of the high court should probe the matter to ensure that the victims get justice.
 
 Condemning the state government for allegedly campaigning that the mob turned violent, he claimed that no policemen or women suffered serious injuries. He said that criminal charges should be slapped against the collector and superintendent of police till the inquiry is completed. He also condemned their absence in the city during the incident.
 
 He also demanded to withdraw false cases registered against the protesters.
 
 
