NEW DELHI: Taking   of the   flagged by the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General ( ) on the functioning of various Delhi government departments in 2016-17, which was laid in the Delhi assembly on Tuesday, the government is likely to seek a CBI probe to nail the guilty. Chief minister   said exemplary action will be taken against the guilty in each case of corruption or irregularity and no one will be spared.

 The Delhi government may recommend 50 cases of irregularities for probe to the CBI. The number of cases for probe can increase.
 
 Kejriwal tweeted to point out a CAGobservation that eight vehicles which ferried 1589 quintals of food articles from the godowns of Food Corporation of India to the fair price shops had the registration numbers of two-wheelers, three-wheelers and buses. This raised doubts about whether the foodgrains were actually transported or not. He slammed the LG, who the CM has claimed recently “rejected” the   government's doorstep delivery of ration.
 
 “The entire ration system is in the grip of a mafia protected by political masters. This is what the LG is trying to protect when he rejects doorstep delivery of ration,” said the CM in a tweet. The government has been claiming that there is “stiff resistance” from the bureaucrats to the proposed doorstep delivery.
 
 Deputy CM Manish Sisodia had recently alleged there was a “nexus between some bureaucrats and the ration mafia”. He said CAG had pointed out serious irregularities in the functioning of the PDS system but the LG says the system is working fine. 
 
 Speaking on the report in the assembly, Sisodia pointed out several irregularities, including one of excess expenditure on provisions during the previous years which have not been regularised and PSUs having arrears of accounts. He said CAG’s highlighting of the irregularities offers an opportunity to the government to get them rectified. “Some of these irregularities are so deep that even if the ministers examine the files for 24 hours, they cannot find them. The CAG report helps the government to see its historical mistakes,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the leader of the opposition, Vijender Gupta, said the report was a sad commentary on the working of the government. “The CAG report highlights the poor financial management and budgetary control of the government,” he said. The ongoing budget session of the assembly has been extended by two days to allow for important discussions to take place.
 
