The happy calm that wraps this small village is broken only by a steady rat-a-tat made by men beating earthen pots into required shapes. For the last 200 years,  , a small village 100km from Nagpur in Khawasa (Seoni district), has been home for potters who came and settled here from  .

 They set up their wheel and began shaping matka and surahi from the soil dug out from the jungles. “Our ancestors had first settled in Ramtek, but the soil over there was not as good and smooth as we find it here,” says Devendra Ghate, one of the many potters engaged in this work.
 
 In those days, earthen pots were also used to cook and store food and grains. “People would buy these pots from us and give us grains in return,” says Ghate, adding that gradually the settlement grew as many more families settled here.
 
 The pilli mitti or the soil of this region gets strengthened after being baked, explains Kishor Pande, who has a mound of soil in front of his house. “Ten years ago, a ban was imposed on collecting the soil from jungles, and now we collect it from farms. This is not of the same quality and purity. It cracks many times while being baked,” he says.
 
 The two century-old tradition of making pots has given this village a look of a rustic studio. Each house has a potter’s wheel placed right outside, at the entrance along with huge mounds of mud. The technique too has not changed much.
 
 “The clay is moulded on the wheel and given the shape of a vessel. It is first dried and beaten to shape. We hold a stone on one hand which is on the inside of the pot. From outside, we hammer it with a wooden spatula to give it the required shape,” says Pande, adding, “We cover it with coal powder while shaping which gives it the black colour and keeps the stored water cold.”
 
 The pots come in five sizes. “Buyers come every week and pick up truckloads which are sold in Nagpur, Wardha, Amravati, Akola, Yavatmaal,” says Bhimrao Ponde. The village has 70 households and each of them make around 100 pots per week. The pots sell anywhere between Rs14 and Rs32 depending on the size. The water pots are made during the four summer months after which potters get busy making the ghat or earthen vessel used during Navratri and diyas for Diwali.
 
 Unlike other villages, this one is devoid of poverty and squalor. The sprawling mud houses have cows mooing and hen clucking all around. Each household makes around Rs 30,000 per month from the sales. “But it is a lot of hard work as the entire day we knead the mud to make it smooth. The soil we are getting now is full of sand which makes the pots break easily,” says Malati Devi.
 
 Business has increased manifold and there is a huge demand as earthen pots are now preferred for storing water and cooking. “Medically also, people are advised not to use metal or plastic vessels or glasses for drinking water or storing it. Besides, many resorts in the nearby Pench area are also buying from us,” says Anil Sanichara, a fourth generation potter.
 
 “There is also a demand for fancy stuff like glasses, tea cups, bottles, jugs and serving bowls which we have started making since last year,” he says and adds, “There is no dearth of buyers.”
 
 However, the products being made by Sanichara and his ilk are very raw and lack finesse. “Previously, we used a mud wheel which did not have perfect balance. Now, we are using a concrete one with bearings which is steadier,” says Laxmi Lal. “Even a 12-year-old in this village can turn the wheel and make these pots. But we are now eager to learn newer techniques,” says Sanichara.
 
 In 2015, the collector of Seoni, Bharat Yadav, adopted the village. He allotted 10-acre land on   for these potters to dig out soil and brought an artist from Bhadravati, Satish Bhonsare, to train the villagers.
 
 “We learnt to make artefacts like masks, turtles and carvings on diyas from him. Our products are finding a place in government showrooms. Tourists who visit the jungles also pick up these items from us,” Laxmi Lal adds.
 
 
