AGRA: A shocking video of a dog eating a body at the mortuary of the district hospital in Aligarh went viral on social media on Monday, triggering outrage.

  
  The video turned up just a week after photos of stray dogs moving around in the general ward of the Agra women hospital, close to patients and newborn babies were widely shared on social media.
  
  In the video, a stray dog is seen feeding on the body of an unidentified person, which was lying in the mortuary of the hospital.
  
  Aligarh district magistrate (DM) CB Singh has ordered a detailed investigation into the incident. He said, “Two in-charge pharmacists of the mortuary,   and Ravi Dixit, have been suspended. Police have also been asked to identify the policeman who had taken this body to the mortuary. According to procedure, bodies taken by police for post mortem have to be handed over to the in-charge of the mortuary.”
  
  Chief medical officer (CMO) ML   admitted that the incident was “shocking”, and said that the stray dogs apparently enter the compound from the main gate, as the other side of boundary wall is secure with a pond on the other side.
  
  “The matter is being inquired into in detail and those responsible for this inhuman neglect won’t be spared,” Agarwal added.
  
  The CMO, however, blamed police for the “irresponsible” act. “While the job of the doctors is to conduct the post mortem, police personnel should ensure that bodies are handed over to the mortuary staff in accordance with the procedures. At present, there are two fridges that accommodate four bodies but soon they will be replaced by two new fridges with six compartments,” he said.
  
  Superintendent of police (SP) city,   said, “We are trying to identify the policeman who had taken the body to the hospital. Strict action will be taken against whosoever was responsible for it.”
  
  Social worker   claimed that this was not the first time that such an incident had occurred. “In 2004, a mongoose had eaten parts of a body but at that time health officials had given the excuse of lack of storage space for bodies,” he added.
