AGRA: Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has estimated that Rs 60 lakh will be spent on the repairs of the minarets of the royal and south gates of Taj Mahal and the finial of the Shahi mosque that were damaged during the storm that hit Agra and the neighbouring districts on April 11.
 
  Superintending archaeologist, ASI (Agra circle), Bhuvan   said it will take about 20 days for the repairs to be completed. “Besides this, the strengthening work, if needed, will also be undertaken,” he added. According to ASI, another Re 10-20 lakh will be spent on two other monuments, Agra Fort and  , which were also damaged in the storm. 
  
  
  On last Wednesday, winds with velocity of over 130 km per hour had damaged a 15-foot-high and 50 cm wide minaret of white and black inlay at the Taj Mahal’s royal gate and another 10-foot-high and 40 cm wide minaret at the monument’s south gate along with a red sandstone flower vase at the tomb of Sirhindi Begum and a portion of the wall of Rewti ka Bada. A ramp for handicapped people at the royal gate, too, was damaged.
 
  
  
  Meanwhile, the ASI’s horticultural wing on Monday auctioned the trees that were uprooted during the storm for Rs 62,000. Deputy superintendent of horticulture department, SC Meena, said that over 100 trees were damaged in storm and 50% of them were uprooted. He said that plantation will start soon, as estimates are being prepared.
  
  
  
  The Agra administration has also issued an alert for a possible “storm” for today. According to the order issued by the additional district magistrate (finance/revenue), Rakesh Kumar Malpani, all departments have been directed to ensure proper safety arrangements. The order also states that officials should also inform villagers about the alert so that they can make proper arrangements to safeguard their animals, crops, houses, etc.
 
  
  
  The order also directs various departments, including forest, power, water, municipal corporation, health and Awas Vikas Parishad to form teams in advance for any relief work, if needed. Emergency health facilities should be on alert at all health institutes, including SN Medical College, district hospital and CHCs, the order said.
  
  
  
  On April 11, heavy rains coupled with strong winds that lasted for over four hours caused considerable damage in Agra, Mathura and Firozabad and Bharatpur and Dholpur districts of neighbouring  . Nearly 22 people, including 7 children, were killed in UP and another 20 in Rajasthan. Most of the deaths were reported due to house collapses.
