
Although the Indian Super League ( ) is in its infancy, it has made giant strides when it comes to popularising football in a country whose first love is cricket. What has probably made this possible is the right mix of Indian talents and foreign players in teams.
 
 To throw light on the reach of football in India, the evolving fan culture and more, we caught up with Kerala Blasters players - Malayali Rino Anto and Wes Brown, who had also played for England and Manchester United:
 
 
 
 : In Europe, we live football and we would start a lot earlier. I didn’t go to Manchester United till I was 12 or 13. But nowadays the starting age is five or six, and so you get the basics right away and playing becomes routine. And then you get drafted to the football clubs.
 
 From what I have seen in this season, the ISL is moving in the right direction and the experienced foreign players coming in have really helped as well. The Indian lads will push that on and hopefully people will watch more football and the sport will grow. That way I am sure Indian footballers would get to play in Europe in the future.
 
 
 I was in the I-League first, and they didn’t have multiple-year contracts like in the European clubs. I think young Indian players need to be offered at least three years, so they know they are safe and will be able to give their best without being worried about what’s going to happen to them next year.
 
 
 
 : Actually the fan base is swelling everywhere. In Pune, the number of fans has risen this year. In Delhi, it’s less because cricket is more popular. States like Kerala and Goa have always enjoyed great support. In Bengaluru, I read the other day that their fan base has actually doubled in the past year alone.
 
 
 From the grounds we played at, we can see that there are fans. When we play at home in Kerala, our fans are unbelievable. They are the best I have seen. In Kochi, we had about 45,000 in attendance but in Delhi, there were only 4,000. That’s a massive difference. But I think that will change as the game grows.
 
 
 
 : That’s how I grew up. I am a Manchester United fan, and we are passionate about our team. I used to always look forward to the games against Liverpool and Manchester City games, and that’s all that fans talked about a week before the matches.
 
 Even now, my friends and I get into big discussions in our WhatsApp groups. We would all love to be the manager of the team and throw in our inputs, but at the end you just want your team to win. Even if they don’t, it doesn’t mean we aren’t going to support them.
 
 
 
 : Definitely. Players like Sahal Abdul Samad, Jishnu Balakrishnan and Sujith MS are from North Kerala. More people want to see them playing. We have now about six to seven local players and that number is improving, and I am hoping more fans too attend the matches.
 
 
 
 : India has a great talent pool and the sport is growing in the country. However, we can’t play in Europe as we are low in the rankings. Most of us have watched these players only on TV, so playing with them is exciting and also great opportunity for us to learn and improve.
  
 
 When I was offered the deal, I talked to a few players I know and have played here. They told me it was a great experience. I came here with an open mind and I have really enjoyed it. The standard is pretty good and the Indian lads are great. It’s a lot different than I what I am used to, the weather being one. It’s very hot but I am not going to complain. I look forward to going on a holiday for the five weeks we have off every year in the summer in England. So, being here is great for me. 
 
