In the latest episode of  , the Goenkas come to Singhania's house for lunch. Naksh and Kirti inform everyone about Kartik and Naira coming in a little late. 
 
 Meanwhile, Kartik and Naira hide behind a curtain when they see Rahul hugging Suhana and get shocked.
 
 As Suhana goes and tries to open the locker, Naira catches her. Suhana asks her what was she doing there. Naira asks her to come clean but Suhana challenges her and says that Naira won't be able to stop her.
 
 Suhana tells Naira that no matter what Naira and Kartik say, Shubham and Swarna will always believe her. Naira tells Kartik that they had to stop her and suggests a plan to bring out the real truth at the sangeet ceremony.
 
 Dadi, Shubham, Manish, and others come back home and discuss the wedding plans. Naira suggests that Suhana and Shubham should get married soon and says that the mehendi and sangeet ceremony should happen the next day. Suhana agrees but says that she wanted to have a simple wedding, without any sangeet ceremony. Swarna asks Dadi about the same.
 
  
  
 Dadi says that the wedding would happen with all the rituals and in a planned manner. Naira and Kartik try to trap Suhana and convince her to have a lavish Mehendi and Sangeet before the wedding.
 
 Kirti worries that the plan might fail and Suhana might get away with everything. Naksh asks her to relax.
 
 As Naira gets busy with some work, Suhana comes and taunts her. Naira says that she won't let anybody split up the family.
 
 A strange guy stares at Naira's photos on his phone and says that he will surprise her with a gift on the day of the Sangeet.
 
 The Mehendi and Sangeet functions start the next day. As she gets ready, Naira sees a gift waiting for her on her bed, which she thinks is from Kartik but was kept by the stranger who comes in to her room without anybody knowing, posing as Shubham's friend.
 
 Shubham looks at Suhana and blushes. Dadi sends him away and his friends to look after the arrangements. Suhana gets ready but Dadi sees that she was not wearing any jewellery and asks Swarna about the same. Suhana says that since Rahul and Savita were not back yet, she had nothing to wear. Swarna suggests that she will wear some of her jewellery for the function. As she goes to get it, Naira stops her.
 
