PATNA: The prevailing chilly conditions is expected to become harsher as India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued warning for cold day at many places in Bihar on Tuesday along with dense to very dense fog from midnight to morning hours till January 5.

 Cold day condition is declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature. Cold day condition was observed at Patna and Bhagalpur and severe cold day at Gaya on Monday.
 
 The maximum temperature in the state capital on Monday was measured at 17.0 degrees C, which was five notches lower than the respective normal. Minimum temperature on the other hand, was recorded at 8.1 degrees C, which was incidentally lowest of the season for the city.
 
 Most parts of the state were enveloped with dense fog cover from Sunday night and although the sun was visible in the afternoon it was not enough to beat the cold. Met officials attributed the chillness to cold north- westerly winds blowing in the region.
 
 Deliberating on the prevailing weather conditions in north India plains, the all- India weather bulletin issued by IMD on Monday evening stated: “Light winds are prevailing over Indo­Gangetic plains and relative humidity is more than 80% over the region. One after another feeble western disturbances are passing over western Himalayan region. Under the above scenario, there are two areas under the grip of dense fog, one over Punjab and West Haryana and, another over East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.”
 
 Western disturbances are low pressure area or extratropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea. While moving eastward it causes winter rainfalls in northwestern Indian subcontinent. The frequency of Western Disturbances is usually the highest in the month of January as compared to months of December and February.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet Weather reported on Monday the winds- direction is expected to change after 24 hours, which may lead to further plunge in mercury column in north- western plains including Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 
 Fog cover on the other hand, would continue to prevail over the next four days owing to high level of moisture in the lower level of atmosphere. The average relative humidity at Patna on Monday was recorded around 90%, which condenses under low temperature condition, leading to formation of fog. Met officials claimed that dense fog further prevents sunrays to penetrate to lower  , leading to the day cold conditions.
 
