Twenty-five-year-old Shreyasi Gopinath hasn’t lived in Kerala much and was born and brought up in Delhi. 

 However, the   dancer, who has roots in Ottappalam, is a familiar face in the dance circuits of the State. Staging her own choreographies on the one hand and dancing to the more traditional tunes of her art form on the other, she has been part of numerous stage shows in the State ever since 2014. Shreyasi, who recently performed in Thrissur, tells us about her love for Bharatanatyam and more.
 
 “I had a passion for Bharatanatyam from a very tender age,” recollects the dancer, flipping through the pages of her memories. “I used to watch the classical dance shows on TV and used to copy the steps and even experiment with them. I eventually told my parents that I too want to learn dance. I was hell bent on it, and I guess I picked Bharatanatyam as I liked the costume. My grandmother chanced upon the dance school of my first guru, Saroja Vaidyanathan coincidentally, and my family agreed to enrol me there.” However, the guru was very clear that she would admit only children above the age of seven. “I was devastated and had to wait, but finally got to enrol for the class as my seventh birthday gift,” she recalls.
 
 By the time she was a fifth grader, the little girl was sure that being a dancer was her calling. Her mom, who worked with a magazine and dad, who was in the army, fully supported her wish. “The dance class was a stress buster for me and I never missed it, come what may. I had my arangettam when I was 14. After Class 10, I enrolled in Kalakshetra in Chennai, where I studied for the next six years, completing a diploma and a post diploma in Bharatanatyam.” As part of the course, she also got to learn Kalaripayattu, yoga, Kathakali and more. “Kalakshetra taught me a lot about discipline. We used to dance for about eight hours, daily and it wasn’t easy, but those were the best days of my life,” Shreyasi recalls. Did the introduction to other art forms trigger in her a love for any of those too? “I liked them, but nothing could trade places with Bharatanatyam,” says the dancer, who is also a ministry of culture scholarship holder.
 Shreyasi, who has been professionally active since 2014, has performed across the country and also in countries like China, Hong Kong and Mexico. She is currently training under guru Jamuna Krishnan. “My guru is the first to introduce North Indian poetry into Bharatanatyam. She can even quote pages of Surdas, Kabir, Meera and Vidyapathi, though she is in her seventies now. I wish to be like her,” Shreyasi says. She also performs to the works of these eminent poets from the North. “I always try to ensure that I perform in a language that can connect the best with my audience. For instance, if it’s a show in Chennai, I might include an item or two of Vidyapathi or Surdas, and the performance would be mostly to Tamil music.”
 
 Inspired by her guru, Shreyasi has also been into choreography for quite a while. “I staged my first solo dance drama about Karnan and his wife Urvi, at the Soorya festival. They are fascinating characters, Karnan, in particular, and they became a lot more interesting once I researched about them. When I told Krishnamoorthy sir about it, he felt it’s new and said I should do it,” she says. She is currently working on a Bhratanatyam - Kathak jugalbandi based on bhakti movement.
 
 The dancer has also been doing a lot of rural programmes for underprivileged children. “It is my way of popularising the dance form in the North, where the inclination is more towards Bollywood dances, unlike in the South. My guru’s pieces come in handy in this initiative as they are in a language that people can understand. I believe that connecting with people through their own language is the key to popularising the art form further,” she concludes.
 
 
