NEW DELHI: Shooting sensation  's insatiable hunger for medals - especially gold - has left her wondering over her future in the 10m air pistol mixed team event. A day after winning the gold in 10m air pistol individual event in  , Manu was despondent at not getting the chance to compete in mixed team events.

 
 
 
 
 According to her father Ram Kishan, the call from Manu from Gold Coast on Sunday revolved around this topic, apart from the talk about her gold medal victory. "She asked me: 'Why am I not getting preference in mixed team competitions when I know I can win gold there too?' Even I want to ask the authorities the same question," Kishan told TOI, citing Manu's win in the Nationals and now  .
 
 Manu's father believes the 16-year-old stands a fair chance in the mixed team events but the  's ( ) prefers to field senior compatriot   - citing the Punjab girl's seniority and ranking - in the mixed team competitions.
 
 According to NRAI, when the mixed team events were introduced by the   (ISSF), Heena was the No.1 woman shooter in her discipline, while Manu was gradually climbing up the rankings ladder.
 
 
 
 
 "The NRAI's governing body decided in September last year that the top-ranked ranking shooters in both the men's and women's air pistol events would form the pairing. Heena was chosen as she was No. 1. In January, when we announced the teams for different competitions, it was Heena who got the preference. Manu only started doing well from the Nationals in December," NRAI secretary general Rajeev Bhatia informed.
 
 "For the upcoming World Cups in Korea, USA and Germany, Heena will partner  ... that's decided. We can't change the pairing in between. At the end of June this year, after conducting another round of trials, we will see the progress of Manu. The NRAI will definitely take into account her impressive performances in recent months," Bhatia added.
 
 But Bhakers are a little worried. They feel that Manu should get a chance to compete in mixed team events in the upcoming World Cups in South Korea, the US, and Germany. They also fear that she could miss out on mixed team events in Jakarta Asian Games as well.
 
