CHENNAI: As the teams lined up for the opening ceremony at the 68th National Basketball Championship at   here on Wednesday, the sight of Satnam Singh Bhamara being hounded for selfies not just by fans but also other teams was hard to miss. It gave a glimpse of the star status the 7'2" hoopster from Punjab enjoys, having been the first India-born player to be picked in the   draft back in June 2015.

 Almost three years since then, though, it's clear that Satnam's career is at a crossroads. With the 22-year-old from Punjab returning to India in late 2017 after his contract with   came to an end, there are question marks over his future. During his three-year stint in the USA, his game time was limited to a handful of appearances for Texas Legends (Dallas Mavericks' affiliate) in NBA's Development League.
 
 Satnam's hunger to get back into the NBA scheme of things, though, hasn't diluted at all. "It was a big opportunity to play over there. Now, I'm back in India. I am looking to improve my game here and get back into the NBA main league. That remains my goal. So I might be back here for now but it is with a desire to go back there," said Satnam, who is in the city representing Punjab in the week-long national tournament.
 
 Recalling his experience in the NBA, Satnam's biggest regret seems to be the lack of opportunities which hardly gave him a chance to showcase his talent.
 
 "It was a stressful time. I didn't get much game time at all. I mostly got only four-five minutes in games. They did not give me an opportunity to play with the ball. I needed time to play with the ball so that I improve my game. I wasn't getting that. So I had to come back to India," he acknowledged.
 
 Having now come back home, Satnam hopes to improve his all-round game and make a mark for the India in the coming tournaments. "I'm trying to work on my game. Everything from my footwork and speed to my shooting has to improve. If I keep performing well for the Indian team, it will give me the best chance to again be picked in the NBA. Performances at the international level are noticed by the NBA for sure," assessed Satnam.
 
 In the process of trying to become a better player, Satnam went through a rigorous training regime and has already shed more than 20 kilos. Appearing a lot fitter and leaner now, he just looks to be enjoying himself once again. "The fitness work just involved a lot of running and cycling every day. I feel I am faster, have more moves with the ball up my sleeve and certainly made me more agile. It has helped in every aspect."
 
