MUMBAI: Farmer groups, united under the banner of the  , on Tuesday formally announced a   from June 1 to 10, when cultivators will stop supplies of milk and vegetables to cities. 

 However, key groups from the state who were part of the historic   last year—The Kisan Sabha, Peasant and Workers Party, Prahaar Sanghatna and Raghunathdada Patil’s Shetkari Sanghatna—plan to stay out. This may lead to the strike having a limited impact in  . 
 
 Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh’s demands include  ,   and implementation of the Swaminathan Commission’s recommendation on minimum support prices.
 
 Some groups feel the strike will cause losses to farmers by impacting the sale of produce, as had happened during last year’s strike. Others say the strike is being led by disparate groups, and not national farmer organizations. “Last year’s strike was historic, but farmers suffered heavy losses. We cannot afford to strike every year, especially during the kharif sowing season,” said Dhananjay Dhorde from Aurangabad, one of the key organizers of last year’s strike. Bachchu Kadu from the Prahaar Sanghatna echoed the view.
 
 The Kisan Sabha is holding a separate agitation during the same period. 
 
 “We will be gheraoing tehsil offices on the crucial issue of low milk prices on June 1,” said Ajit Navale of The Kisan Sabha. 
 
 Jayant Patil of Peasant and Workers Party and Raghunathdada Patil of Shetkari Sanghatna said the organizers had not contacted them.
 
 “There is a difference between Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh’s strike and the earlier one in Maharashtra. This time, farmers can sell their produce in villages at their prices, but will not supply to cities,” said Shivkumar Sharma Kakkaji, one of the convenors. 
 
 When asked if the strike would hit farmers, he said, “The government is leaving us with no choice but to strike... The rising price of petrol and diesel and GST on farm inputs has also affected farmers.”
 
 When asked why key farmer groups in Maharashtra and national farmer organizations were not part of the strike, he said: “These groups are linked to politics and stand for elections. We are an apolitical platform. All groups, including the BJP, are welcome to join the protest but without their flag and banner.” 
 
 
