HYDERABAD: Will the initial euphoria over keeping all the civilian roads open in Secunderabad Cantonment be short-lived? With the   ( ) claiming that it is yet to receive a formal order from the ministry of defence (MoD), lakhs of residents in the Cantonment and adjoining areas are harbouring doubts if the MoD’s instructions will be followed in letter and spirit or not.

 Highly-placed defence sources told TOI there will be clarity on opening of the Army/civilian roads only after the LMA receives the orders. Following the decision taken by defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday, there was an air of expectancy among the residents and commuters.
 
 
 
 Residents of the Cantonment area were hopeful that LMA would issue a release on Monday, making it official to keep the roads open but no such step was taken till late in the night.
 
 The ‘slight delay’ has thrown a spanner in the works, forcing a 20-member delegation led by the Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS) to rush to the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) office on Monday and represent the matter to the higher authorities. The team asked SCB CEO SVR Chandra Sekhar to ensure immediate removal of barricades from the civilian roads and ensure free flow of traffic since the MoD had given the go-ahead. “We demand that the LMA open the roads immediately by implementing the MoD’s decision for the benefit of lakhs of commuters,” a members of the delegation told TOI.
 
 Two iron gates at Allahabad Gate (Mahendra Hills) and a tent for the   to check vehicles towards   (Gough Road and All Saint’s Church) were still in place. A permanent wall at the defence residential quarters (towards All Saint’s Church) and another at Lakadawala (to proceed towards  ) still exist. Barricades were also put up at Yapral. “Commuters are waiting anxiously for LMA to remove all these,” a senior representative of FNECS told TOI.
 
 SCB VP J Ramakrishna said, “In a day or two, all ward members will meet GOC, TASA, N Srinivasa Rao, to get the structures removed.” He said SCB would convey the anger of locals to authorities.
 
 
