Noida: On the occasion of Uttar Pradesh Day, three mega infrastructure projects worth Rs 349 crore were thrown open to Noida citizens on Wednesday. All the three projects — the long-awaited multi-level parking facility at Sector 18 and two underpasses at sectors 94-95 and 60-61— were launched by the previous government.

 Foundations for another three projects worth Rs 130 crore were also laid on Wednesday. The projects were launched by Union minister Mahesh Sharma along with UP excise minister Jai Pratap Singh, who is also Gautam Budh Nagar district in-charge, and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh.
 
 However, the   facility, which has missed seven deadlines since its construction started in July 2013, did not see even a single vehicle parking within its premises. The few vehicles using the underpasses thrown open to traffic on Wednesday saw smooth traffic movement, but congestion was not noticeably reduced at the major crossings in the city.
 
 Despite its opening, Noida Authority officials said the parking facility will be fully operational only from February 1. “ Since eight lifts are yet to be installed at the facility, commuters may find it convenient to park their vehicles only in the basement, ground and first floors till then,” said project engineer SC Mishra, who is in charge of the project.
 
 “The current parking rates will be applicable till the end of this month. From February 1, the entire parking for Sector 18, along with the facility, will be taken over by the new contractor, and the new rates will come into effect,” he added. 
 
 Despite the launch of the underpasses, the major crossings of the city were still gridlocked during peak time. The   at the tri-junction of Master Plan Road-3 and sectors 94 and 95 was expected to ensure a signal-free commute to those travelling from Faridabad to Sarita Vihar via Kalindi Kunj-NH 24 and benefit those coming from Delhi towards Noida sectors 125 and 94.
 
 
 “The underpass at the tri-junction will be more effective for morning traffic, and that too only for those travelling from Delhi towards Amity University via Sector 15A,” said Noida traffic inspector Layak Singh. “ But the evening traffic moving from Noida to Kalindi Kunj, Delhi and Faridabad will continue to witness congestion until the under-construction parallel bridge across the Yamuna is ready,” he added.
 
 Singh further said the underpass at the crossing of sectors 60-61, 66 and 71 saw a 50-50 response. “However, today is the first day. Once commuters find out about the facility has been opened, its benefit will be clearer,” he added.
 
 
 Foundation for three new projects was also laid on Wednesday. The new projects include an underpass between sectors 96 and 126 and two new industrial sectors in sectors 155 and 156.
 
 The proposed underpass will be located at chainage 2.36 on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. “There is already a minor underpass located at this point, which will be enhanced to four lanes. It will provide connectivity to sectors on both sides of the expressway,” said Sandeep Chandra, chief project engineer, Noida Authority. 
 
 “We will soon initiate tenders for the project. The facility is likely to be completed by December 31, 2019,” Chandra said.
 
 Officials further said the two new industrial sectors will be located in sectors 155 and 156. These two industrial sectors will be ready for handover by December 31, 2018. 
 
 
