BHUBANESWAR: Anyone present at East Bengal’s training sessions during the past few days would be familiar with shouts of ‘goaaaal’, ‘here goes another one’, ‘what a strike, man!’ In match situations, though, what has stood out is a misfiring forward line which has failed to translate the training drills into goals. Khalid Jamil’s side may have mastered the art of eking out wins by the smallest of margins - 2-1 v   and 1-0 against both Aizawl FC and FC Goa — to make the Super Cup final, but their survival strategy will face the strongest challenge when they face Bengaluru FC in the title clash at Kalinga Stadium on Friday.

 
 Jamil is aware that if his players continue to fluff their lines and fail to make scoring opportunities count, they will be inviting trouble against the Sunil Chhetris and Mikus.
 
 While the red and golds continue to sweat over Dudu Omagbemi’s fitness, the team is exploring other options of arranging their arsenal. The Nigerian striker suffered a hamstring sprain soon after scoring the match-winner against FC Goa in the semifinal and stayed back in the team hotel when others sweated it out at the Kalinga Stadium’s training ground on Wednesday. Dudu believes he’ll be fit to take the field against BFC, but the team management is not so sure yet.
 
 The most likely rearrangement will see Ansumana Kromah replace the Nigerian, if the latter fails to make the starting XI. The other option is to field two strikers, bringing   into the frame. Jamil, however, is not known to tinker with his midfield and defence. So it remains to be seen if he finally starts with two strikers.
 
 Midfielder Katsumi Yusa watched 10-man BFC’s 4-2 demolition of   on TV on Tuesday, and was all praise for Albert Roca’s football philosophy. But he refused to believe that BFC would start as favourites in the final.
 
 “Unlike other teams which play direct football, BFC tend to keep the ball in possession and also have attacking variety, especially through Miku and Sunil. It’s all credit to their Spanish coach’s philosophy,” Katsumi said after training.
 
