NEW DELHI: Indians have been putting in the profits during the last 15 months with eight victories on the Asian and European Tours. Right now, there are five golfers in the Top-200, including two in the Top 70. With the   teeing off at the DLF   & Country Club’s Gary Player course on March 8, the chances of another home triumph seem high.

 
 While SSP Chawrasia belied all expectations with his regulation golf on what is considered a course known for driving distance, crippling hazards and undulating fairways and greens, there are those who have a different game plan.  , who is ranked at 195, is one of them.
 
 The Delhi golfer knows all about winning after a hat-trick high last season. There are various ways to reach the goal and his philosophy is worth a listen.
 
 “In hindsight, there are a couple of things I would do differently but not to say it will turn out right,” Kapur says. “You realize the strategies you work on in practice doesn’t always work in tournaments. Like I said during the Panasonic Open, I would go into a shell and play a little conservatively which I thought was smart golf and DLF is a course which puts in a shell right away with talk about being the toughest course playing on your mind. But sometimes you have to go out and attack a course and accept you are going to make a few mistakes.”
 
 The one player catching global attention is Shubhankar Sharma and there is talk he may get a Masters invite after his two wins on the  . “He is very level-headed, it’s fantastic how he handles himself under pressure,” Shiv talks of the World No. 71, who is the highest ranked Indian now. “He’s got a maturity well beyond his years and if he finds he gets a wild card for Masters he is not the kind of kid who would get overwhelmed because he will embrace the challenge.”
 
 “It’s great that at this young age, he has such a complete game. He doesn’t seem to have any weaknesses and mentally he is there,” he adds.
 
 Perhaps, it is the golden age of Indian golf with the generations pushing each other.
 
 “I also think there is a lot of healthy competition out there among the Indians.   is still knocking on the door. Jyoti (Randhawa) and Jeev (Milkha Singh) are playing well. There’s Shubhankar (Sharma), Anirban (Lahiri), Gaganjeet (Bhullar) and Ajeetesh (Sandhu) and many more. The camaraderie is also fantastic on the Tour. We are actually rooting for each other and envious of each other. At the same time you see one winning and you believe you can win it too.”
 
