BENGALURU: Alleging an increase in the number of fraudulent cases before the   (MACT) owing to collusion between claimants, medical practitioners, police and advocates, an insurance company has moved the high court's Dharwad bench. It has sought probe by a   (SIT) into the matter. 

 Citing the example of   where such a team was constituted and then upheld by the Supreme Court in January 2017, Bajaj  , in its petition, alleged that a beneficial legislation like Motor Vehicles Act is being abused by unscrupulous persons, and claim petitions are filed based on concocted medical documents.
 
 "Though the alleged victims haven't sustained any fractures or grievous injuries, certain hospitals are issuing false certificates, discharge summaries and supportive medical documents. The insurance companies have fallen prey to such dubious claims and paid money," the petitioner said. Hospitals in and around Davanagere, Hosapete, Chalakere and Ballari are allegedly part of the nexus.
 
 Justice K S Mudagal ordered notice to the government, SPs of Davanagere/Haveri, commissioner of   corporation, Karnataka Medical Council, hospitals located in Davanagere and medical practitioners.
 
  
 
  The petitioner cited the example of a claim plea filed on behalf of road accident victim Dhananjay Singh's family before the MACT, Ballari. They said he was a supervisor in a construction company with a monthly salary of Rs 22,009. Based on the family claim, the tribunal awarded a compensation of Rs 23,43,840. However, in another petition filed before MACT, Kudligi, Dhananjay's wife said he was paid Rs 344 per day, and the muster roll and wage register showed his monthly pay was 6,250. The Kudligi tribunal awarded her another Rs 8,26,098 as compensation. 
 
 "Since both the insurance companies had sent the documents to one advocate, the dual claim fraud came to light. If the papers had been sent to different advocates, public money worth Rs 35 lakh would have been lost," the petitioner said.
 
 
