Indore: Several academicians, registrars, examination controllers and senior staff on Monday underscored the need for change in the existing examination pattern in higher education, advocating introduction of the globally accepted credit based choice (CBC) system at Devi Ahilya Vishwavidhyalaya (DAVV). 

 The university in association with Association of Indian Universities (AIU) began a three- day-long workshop to discuss ‘examination reforms in higher education’ at the Institute of Management Studies (IMS). 
 
 Under the CBC system, students can chose subjects on their own and also tell the examiner to conduct the examination when they will be ready for it.
 
 "Neither subjects are imposed on students in the CBC system, nor the date of examination," said professor Veera Gupta from National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NUEPA) in the first session of the national level workshop. 
 
 University representatives from 15 states of the country participated in the workshop to chalk out reforms needed in the existing examination system in higher education and also the problems being faced in the present system. 
 
 The participants echoed that emerging trends like online examination, complete internal assessment, immediate supplementary exams, speeding up the process of assessment in India. 
 
 At the inaugural session, AIU vice president and research in-charge Dr Amrendra Pani, expressed the need to overcome traditional examination practices and necessity for innovation. “We will have to leave the traditional examination system as we practice traditional system to an extent that we stop accepting new trends. Teachers also need to be techno pedagogues,” said Pani. 
 
 DAVV former vice chancellor Dr Bharat Chapparwal stated that the present examination system forces the students to indulge in mugging up instead of learning. He also came forward and supported the semester system instead of annual examination system. 
 
 Apart from this vice chancellor, professor NK Dhakad also discussed about the drawbacks of the examinations system followed by DAVV presently. He stated that the university conducts 700 examinations every year owing to the large number of affiliated colleges thus examination reform on such a huge level is a sensitive process. 
 
 “We have planned step by step reforms in our examination system first one includes scanning of marks through OMR sheets. Gradually we will implement other projects also. CBC system has been implemented in the university but to implement this system in affiliated colleges is difficult,” said Dhakad. 
 
 
