KOLKATA: A young homemaker lost her right arm and had to undergo multiple surgeries on her right leg after she fell under the wheels of a bus she was trying to board at the Ultadanga crossing last week. Days after the accident, TOI took a stock of the Ultadanga crossing near the   station, the spot where the woman was trying to board the bus. These are the problems that seem to plague the veritable death zone:

 
 
 Even if bus drivers and pedestrians want to follow traffic rules, they possibly cannot at the Ultadanga crossing as the bus bay is right in the middle of the road. As a result, the stop remains empty, while passengers are forced to wait on the road for buses. Autos have conveniently usurped the lane closest to the footpath and buses are forced to pick and drop passengers in the middle of the road. “It is impossible to board a bus from the stand. The buses do not come this far, and we have to manoeuvre our way past speeding autos. At the same time, the police do not let the buses halt for long there, and so, most times, we are forced to jump onto or alight from running vehicles,” said  , a resident of Dum Dum cantonment, who regularly boards a bus from the   crossing.
 
  
 
 
 
 In a bid to rein in the autos, which cut across lanes from all sides at Ultadanga, the police have dedicated the entire left flank for the three-wheelers. But even then, the errant drivers continue to speed, overtake from left and criss-cross lanes, posing danger to pedestrians and motorists alike. “Auto drivers here continue to drive recklessly and in a manner that makes it impossible for us to catch a bus,” said Usashi Dutta, a Maniktala resident. Bikers are no better either, driving in the wrong direction just to avoid a detour for a U-turn ahead.
 
 
 
 The cops have sealed almost every gap at the divider on  , but pedestrians with little respect for rules have found rather innovative and athletic means to cross the road at the wrong place, rather than take a few steps to cover some extra metres before taking the foot overbridge to cross over safely. TOI spotted several youths scaling the iron railings. not only that, even some elderly people were seen squeezing themselves through a gap between two bent railings. The youths jumped over the four-ft-high iron rails and dangerously crossed the road, putting lives at risk. “We have ensured that no gap is found in the railings on the divider. What can we do if people scale them to cross over?” said a constable.
 
 
 
 
 From fruit and vegetable stalls to eateries and extension of shops, unauthorized structures have completely taken over pavements at Ultadanga, pushinh pedestrians on to the busy road. To clear way for pedestrians, cops even cut out a portion of the main carriageway and demarcated it with guardrails to allow people walk on that stretch till the Ultadanga station. “There is almost no space for us to walk. Hawkers and eatery-owners have taken over the entire footpath, forcing us to walk on the road. Accidents are bound to happen,” said   (67), a retired state government executive.
 
 
  
 
 
 
