KOCHI: The first cadaver   has happened after a gap of six months with an accident victim's family deciding to  . The heart, liver, both kidneys, two hands, pancreas and eyes of  , a 29-year-old youth from  , were harvested at a private hospital.

 Arun Raj had met with a motor vehicle accident on the evening of April 1 evening. He was driving pillion with his friend on the airport road, when a car hit their bike from behind. He was rushed to Little Flower Hospital, Angamaly, where he was declared brain dead on Monday. He worked as a ground staff for a private airline.
 
 His family members decided to donate the organs after his friends informed family members that as DYFI member, he had pledged his organs for donation. “Let my son live through others,” said Arun’s father Rajan, a daily wage worker. A team of doctors along with a government doctor examined Arun twice on Monday in the six hour gap before declaring him brain dead. They did apnea test to assess brain death. Once ascertained, the authorities decided to go ahead with the organ transplant. The whole process was videographed.
 
 One kidney has been donated to a patient undergoing treatment at Kottayam Medical College, two hands, one kidney, pancreas and liver has been given to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) to be transplanted on different persons in the Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS) wait list. Eyes have been retained by the Little Flower Hospital.
 
 However, as there was no matching recipient found for the heart in Kerala, the KNOS authorities contacted their counterpart in Tamil Nadu. One reason for this was the increasing reluctance amongst cardiac surgeons in the state to prepare patients for heart transplant.
 
 “We have no confidence to prepare patients for heart transplant as there is no guarantee to get a heart. Due to this, we are losing patients to Chennai hospitals,” said Lisie hospital’s cardiac surgeon Dr Jose Chacko Periappuram.
 
 The heart was transported to Fortis Malar, Chennai, to be transplanted on a 19-year-old boy. It was taken in a flight from here at 12 pm and reached Chennai around 2.30 pm.
 
