NEW DELHI: Finance minister   came down heavily on public sector banks on Tuesday for not safeguarding taxpayers' money spent to keep them afloat, and warned that the government would explore all options to punish the "cheats" responsible for bank frauds.

 
 "The first important question is with regard to the lack of ethics that a section of Indian business follows. Therefore, it is incumbent on us, as the state, till the last legitimate capacity to chase these people to the last possible conclusion. To make sure that the country is not cheated," Jaitley said in his first comments since the Rs 11,300-crore   came to light.
 
 He also asked supervisors to make an example of wrongdoers so that such "stray cases" were not repeated, a message meant for  , whose role itself is under the scanner for not blowing the whistle on irregularities at PNB, which helped  ,   and their enablers to take out money.
 
 At a conference on development finance, finance minister Arun Jaitley expressed his displeasure with the management of state-run banks, saying they had failed to keep the trust the government put in them by not interfering with their decisions.
 
 "The PM himself announced at the Gyan Sangam that we want you to be autonomous. He said no one is going to call you up and, therefore, take your own decisions. When authority is given to the managements, you are expected to utilise the authority effectively and in the right manner. Therefore, the question for the management itself is: Were they found lacking? And, on the face of it, the answer seems to be yes, they were. They were found lacking in also to check who among them was a delinquent," Jaitley said.
 
 The FM also said it was not easy for the government to earmark scarce resources to recapitalise banks, which are grappling with a record pile of non-performing assets created by "unprincipled sections of the industry".
 
 He said with the money needed to spend on development needs, there were "moral issues involved in sparing a huge amount for banks", which are in line to receive Rs 1.45 lakh crore from the government during the current and the next financial year.
 
