NAGPUR: Here is a good and bad news for the people residing in  , the famous industrial area located 26km from the city, as the state government has upgraded it from gram panchayat to municipal council but excluded it from   development.

 A couple of months ago only, the government had approved the development plan (DP) of Metropolitan Region, including Butibori, and approved it as one of the nine urban growth centres in Metropolitan Region area, raising a question mark on the state government’s urban planning.
 
 It took the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) seven years to prepare and get sanctioned the DP of Metropolitan Region area. Now, the Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) will have to exclude Butibori with population of around 40,000. The NMRDA had also proposed to develop waste to fuel project (dumping yard with scientific disposal of garbage) in an area of 208.79 hectare at Poha and Mandwa adjacent to Butibori. If these area falls under Butibori municipal council, which is yet not clear, NMRDA may lose the land.
 
 NMRDA commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar confirmed Butibori municipal council will not be part of Metropolitan Region area anymore. “We have prepared systematic development plan for Butibori. The new municipal council can take over the plan and develop on its own or also can omit it. There will be no threat to proposed waste to fuel project’s area,” he said.
 
 The government decision has also put question mark on the elections of Zilla Parishad (ZP) and Panchayat Samiti (PS) in Butibori.
 
 As per norms, the government cannot make any changes in the status of any area six months before elections. The elections for 58 ZP seats and 116 PS seats were supposed to be held in January last year. But the elections were postponed when the government upgraded Wanadongri to municipal council and Parsheoni to municipal panchayat four months before the elections.
 
 Again, when the elections for the ZP were to be conducted in June, the state government changed the status of the place, Butibori, where the elections had to be taken place. Couple of days ago, the state election commission had even started the process for ZP and PS areas’ delimitation, including Butibori. The ZP has conveyed the state election commission about population of ZP areas as 16 lakh including 40,000 of Butibori. 
 
 The state election commission will also have to hold Butibori municipal council elections after completing delimitation of areas falling under the new municipal council.
 
 
