NAGPUR:   ( ) felicitated   and newly crowned   (IM)   at its office here on Friday.

 
 
 Both the young players have been doing exceptionally well this season and brought laurels to the city by excelling in their respective fields. Despite their tender age, both aspire to achieve greater heights in their respective sports.
 
 Sixteen-year-old Malvika has been selected in the Indian school team for the forthcoming Asian Schools Badminton Championship slated to be held in the city in July.
 
 Twelve-year-old chess prodigy Raunak became the youngest IM of Maharashtra after a series of impressive performances in the national and international tournaments in the last few months.
 
 A Standard XII student of Shivaji Science College, Malvika hopes to continue good form and break into the senior national team sooner than later.
 
 “My ultimate aim is to be a part of the senior Indian badminton team. As far as this year’s targets are concerned I want to reach No. 1 ranking in India in the U-19 girls singles. I want to perform well in all the state and national ranking tournaments to realize my goal,” she said while interacting with the local scribes.
 
 The junior India No. 3 shuttler said in the Asian School Badminton Championship, slated to be played at the Mankapur Stadium from July 9 to 14, she will be confident while playing in front of the home crowd.
 
 Although, Malvika was disappointed for not being selected for the Asian Junior Championship to be played at Jakarta next month, she congratulated her citymate Ritika Thaker for her selection in the Indian U-19 squad.
 
 “Ritika has been in great form and she is a strong medal hope for India. Asian School Championship is also a prestigious meet. My college always supported me and it will be my priority to represent my college at the international level. The competition will be tough as countries like China, Chinese Taipei, Indonesia and Malaysia are likely to take part,” said Malvika, who credits coach Kiran Makode and parents for her success.
 
 Things are moving quite rapidly for Raunak. The Standard VII student of Centre Point School, had never expected to become IM so soon. Now with IM landmark achieved, he is now aiming to become Grandmaster.
 
 “I never thought that I will become IM so early. When I played first round in 2016 in the tournament in Spain, that time the first thought of becoming IM crossed my mind. Then things started falling in place and it was a dream run for me in the last one year or so,” said Raunak.
 
 A trainee of Vidarbha’s first GM Swapnil Dhopade, Raunak, who practices for 8 to 10 hours daily and loves to play attacking game, said, “My ultimate aim is to become GM but I am not in a hurry. Consistent performance will be the key factor from here onwards.”
 
 Raunak, who also loves swimming, said chess does not affect his regular studies but he knows how to balance both sports and academics.
 
 “My idol is Vishwanathan Anand. I am thankful to my coach Swapnil Dhopade, who taught me positional play and strategies,” said Raunak.
 
 He started playing chess at the age of eight under the guidance of his father.
 
 Earlier, SJAN secretary Sandeep Dabhekar and SJAN treasurer Suhas Nayse welcomed the sportspersons. Dr Ram Thakur conducted the proceedings.
 
 
