Actors   Sheikh,  ,   and Shubhangi Atre were in Kanpur and Lucknow recently to promote their show ' '. Interestingly, the show too is based on Kanpur and the makers have not only been copying the local dialect in the serial, but have always highlighted topics relevant to Kanpur. The actors seemed quite excited to be a part of the city in which they have been living in reel life. Aasif, who plays the character of   in the show, said, "This is the first time that I am visiting Kanpur but somewhere the feeling was that it’s not a new city for me. Yeh koi filmi baat nahi hai, Kanpur mein na rehte hue bhi aisa lagta hai ki jaise main Kanpur main hi rehta hoon. It’s because my character of Vibhuti is shown to be a hard core Kanpurite. Kanpur aane ke baad main jitne logon se mila woh mujhe bade jaane pehchane se lage. Jis baat ne mujhe sabse zyada touch kiya woh yahan ke logon ki warmth thi. Jaise hi maine hotel mein check in kiya waise hi ek bachche ne mere pair chhuye…main usse janta nahi tha but he gave me respect and I also clicked a few selfies with him."
 
  Saumya Tandon (BCCL/ AS Rathor)
 
 Adding further, Aasif said, "Aisa kisi aur sheher mein nahi hota hai. My first visit to Kanpur was really overwhelming for me. Another interesting experience was in Varanasi. I was there to campaign for a family friend during the civic poll elections. I wanted to buy a sari for my wife and I went to Gwodoliya area there. Mere saath dus baarah log aur bhi thay par tab hi logon ne mujhe pehchaan liya aur sahab uske baad toh mujhe aisa laga jaise sab mujhe apne ghar le jaayenge. Yeh sab UP mein hi ho sakta hai."
 Actor Rohitash Gaud, who plays   in the show, agreed that despite being from Kalka and working in Mumbai, he has a strong connection with Kanpur and Lucknow. “The last time I came to Kanpur was to promote my show Lapataganj. But this was the first time I got exposed to the witty and humorous side of Kanpur. Ashwini Dheer, the writer and director of ' ', is from Kanpur and during that visit he exposed me to Kanpur’s language and culture. What I realized was that Kanpurites have a great understanding of literature. During my visit that time, people were talking about the works of eminent poet Sharad Joshi, whereas on the other side, I also noticed that Kanpur has a unique language style. I really liked words like 'chiraandh' and ‘ghuiya ke khet mein’ which were new to me at that time. But when I got to know about their humorous meaning, I thought of using them in my upcoming project," said, Rohitash.
 
  
  Aasif Sheikh, Shubhangi Atre and Rohitash Gaud enjoying chaat (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
  For Saumya Tandon, coming to Kanpur after nearly a decade was like homecoming. "Originally my family belongs to Kanpur. My dadaji used to own a paint manufacturing factory in Kanpur and I would come to Kanpur during my vacations. I still remember my cousin, who is older to me, used to make me stand on a scooter and would take me out for a ride. The industrial area of Kanpur was highly polluted at that time but today when I came here, I was surprised to see the cleaner side of the city. Aaj bhi jab main Kanpur aa rahi thi tab unhi dino ko yaad kar rahi thi jo maine yahan apne vacations mein spend kiye hain," said Saumya, who also inquired about several other places in the city that she used to visit as a kid. 
 By Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
