CHENNAI: An once uncommon viral infection is landing the city’s children in hospitals, government and private, with pink eyes and   distress.

 While doctors prepared for treating the routine spike in summer-related ailments, the spurt in infections caused by adenoviruses – a group of common viruses that infect the lining of the eyes and airway – has stumped the white-coats.
 
 So much so that a group of paediatricians in a children’s hospital here is in the process of studying the   they describe as being “nasty” and “unpredictable”. “The increase is unprecedented,” said Dr S Balasubramanian, medical director of Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital. While the total number of children admitted in the hospital in the last three months wasn’t immediately available, he said at least 10 children affected by the virus, some less than two years old, required admission in the intensive care unit for acute respiratory distress. 
 
 The most common manifestation of this highly contagious, air-borne viral infection is  , cold, sore throat and fever. The symptoms last for close to a week. Although it isn’t fatal, infants and people with weak immune systems, or existing respiratory or cardiac diseases, are at higher risk of developing a more severe form of pneumonia.
 
 “The virus doesn’t respond to medication. We only provide supportive treatment,” said Dr Indira Jayakumar, senior consultant, paediatric intensive care unit, Apollo Children’s Hospital. In the last month, the hospital has admitted six children, who tested positive for the infection. Three of them required  . “We still haven’t understood why it affects some children more than the others, but it’s nasty and needs to be contained,” said Dr Jayakumar. 
 
 Doctors say they only test children with acute respiratory distress. “There are several children who have been showing symptoms of the viral infection, but since it is self-limiting, I don’t send them for screening,” said paediatrician Dr Benny Benjamin. “But if admissions are on the rise, the state needs to investigate,” he said. Doctors at the Institute of Child Health, Egmore, which has a daily patient footfall of 1,500, said they have been seeing children with infections caused by adenoviruses, which is “unusual” for this time of the year. “But we haven’t seen an alarming rise as yet,” said a doctor.
 
 
