ROHTAK: The former faculty member of the Indian Institute of Management (IIM),  , who had filed the sexual harassment case against the institute’s director Professor  , had apprised the institute’s chairman of the board of governors (BoG) of the matter through a letter on March 25.

 The Rohtak police registered an FIR under Sections 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) and 354A (demand for sexual favours) of the IPC against   on the complaint of the woman member who joined the institute in September 2017.
 
 Meanwhile,   public relations officer (PRO) Guneet Sethi had informed the media that the complainant was terminated from the service on May 10, and her decision to lodge a complaint against the director was an ‘afterthought.’
 
 Talking to TOI, the victim, who has rich academic and professional credentials, said she was terminated on May 10 but she had raised the issue with the BoG chairman on March 25 and had also written to the Union ministry of human resources development (MHRD) as well as the Prime Minister’s office (PMO) about the issue.
 
 “I tried all channels and even informed the higher authorities that since I was raising voice against the  , there were high chances that I may be ousted from services and sought their intervention to no avail,” she claimed.
 
 According to the letter written to the board chairman Ravi Kant, the director was causing the complainant tremendous mental stress and affecting her family life. “Towards the end of September last year, the director sought my view on extramarital affairs, stating that in today’s society such things are common, and he was open to it principally until that affects one’s family,” the letter reads.
 
 The director commented multiple times about personal life of the victim and demanded undue loyalty towards him. In her letter, she stated that Prof Sharma had referred to his contacts with the ministers and bureaucrats and shared incidents of his influencing the judiciary to move things in his favour.
 
 In the same letter, she expressed her concern that after writing this letter to the BoG chairman, the accused would employ all possible measures and manipulative skills to oust her from the institute. She again wrote to the board chairman on April 6 and May 1 to inform him about more harassment suffered by her at the institute.
 
 
