New Delhi: The   was   with the National Highways Authority of India ( ) for its   in the   on Thursday where it allegedly blamed the   of   for   in opening of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway ( ), meant to decongest traffic in the capital.

 Soon after the SC order setting the deadline for opening the 135 km road on or before May 31, highways minister Nitin   told TOI, “The inauguration of EPE has been delayed because of the pending work. PM had given two dates earlier for opening of the expressway on our request, but we wanted to complete the entire stretch before its inauguration since it’s an expressway.” He added work of building a large rail over bridge (ROB) is still underway and will be completed soon.
 
 Ministry officials said the prime minister’s office has been keen for early completion and tentative dates were indicated. “But these had to be deferred as till now only one side of the ROB is ready. The second carriageway will be ready quickly. The interchange connecting the expressway with NH-1 is still under construction. We are confident of early completion,” said a top official.
 
 Meanwhile, NHAI said their counsel from the law firm M V Kinni has informed that she did not mention anything about non-availability of PM for the inauguration. “We are waiting for the court order. We will enquire into when the counsel made any such statement on PM and if it’s found we will take necessary action,” NHAI chairman Deepak Kumar told this newspaper.
 
 TOI in its report on April 16 had highlighted how work of ROB had just started and the government needed to get completion and safety audit certificates to ensure that the high speed corrdior is complete and safe. 
 
 It is also learnt that the ministry had been updating the PMO about the progress of the stretch including how mammoth and time taking the construction of one-of-its-kind ROB is.
 
 “The general arrangement drawing for the ROB was revised by railways and span was increased to 70 metres single span to accommodate the underpass. There was a big challenge to design and construct single span of 70 metre with deck width of 21.5 metre. It required construction of massive temporary structures,” a source said. NHAI officials added that there was two instances of the breakdown of the high capacity cranes. Besides, frequent thefts of the gusset plates and bolts that are specially designed for the structure have also hindered work. 
 
 
