CHENNAI: From now on, parents need not travel all the way or write to head office in Chennai to take action against private matriculation schools that demand excess fee or deny applications for   admissions. 

 The state school education department on Friday issued orders restructuring the administrative set-up, thereby giving powers to field level officers to inspect and take action against erring schools. 
 
 It is the duty of the block educational officer (erstwhile assistant elementary educational officer) to ensure that matriculation schools collected fees as recommended by the   determination committee. 
 
 The officer will also be monitoring implementation of 25% admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) Act in not only matriculation but also CBSE and ICSE schools. Respective district educational officer (DEO) and chief educational officer (CEO) will   block educational officer’s (BEO) work. 
 
 At present, many aggrieved parents end up filing police complaints as district-level committees constituted in 2009 had turned ineffective. Complaints were invariably forwarded to the head office in Chennai. 
 
 Until last year, nearly 950 district-level authorities of equivalent pay scales were given the task of regulating and inspecting different types of schools, including government, aided, private matriculation and nursery schools.
 
 “All of these authorities have overlapping territorial jurisdiction,” said state school education secretary  . It has made inspection and monitoring difficult and has not only affected quality but also resulted in duplication. 
 
 Also, senior officials at the headquarters act as appointing and disciplinary authority for teachers in academic subjects, physical education, languages and for vocational instructors. 
 
 It is virtually impossible for these officials, having substantial work in their own offices, to monitor performance and exercise disciplinary powers over such a huge number of staff working across the state, Yadav added. To eliminate this, a four-layer administrative set-up – CEO, DEO, BEO and directorate – has been created. Field officers (CEO, DEO and BEO) have been given the power to monitor all types of schools in their territorial jurisdiction. Posts like inspector of matric schools have been done away with. 
 
 The jurisdiction will be divided in such a way that all these officers get similar number of schools, the order read. It also stated that no new posts will be created and pay scale will remain the same. 
 
 
