CHENNAI: In an attempt to help the state government achieve its objectives set in the Vision 2023 document, unveiled around five years ago, CII   on Friday urged the state to create comprehensive policies and rebrand Tamil Nadu for investment attractiveness. It also suggested enhancing infrastructure and connectivity with Tier 2 & Tier 3 cities to facilitate inclusive growth across the state. 

 CII also identified three growth drivers in key sectors, including automotive & auto components, light & heavy engineering as well as aerospace and defence, besides IT, healthcare, poultry and agro industries, to achieve targets set for 2023. "The Vision 2023 was unveiled quite a long while back and the macro environment has quite changed in the last five years. If we have to achieve that target, we need to go forward by identifying top three key growth drivers in each sector. That is what we have prepared in the 'Vision 2023 - Growth Drivers' document that we presented to the state government,"   president P Ravichandran told TOI. "They have assured us to study and evaluate the suggestions and revert," he added. Tamil Nadu has a significant contribution to the Indian economy with a 9% contribution to GDP and achieved a 7.2% CAGR growth in GSDP over the past five years. While banking and services sectors grew at 9%, manufacturing growth was muted, but growth in labour intensive sectors, including agriculture, contracted.
 
 With Tamil Nadu being a leader in multiple segments like auto/auto components, textile and IT/ITeS, there is a need to rebrand and project the competitive advantage of the state in the areas of infrastructure, talent pool creation and skill development, which will attract and retain investments,   suggested. It also wanted the state to create an industry advisory board comprising business leaders across segments and geographies within the state to advise and provide perspectives to the government on vision, policy frameworks, implementation and building ecosystems in both traditional and emerging areas. "We have suggested the setting up of a Consultative Forum, consisting of industry leaders, which could regularly meet with the state government. The idea is to have an ongoing dialogue on a regular basis to address issues that may crop up from time to time," he added.
 
 
