VADODARA/ ANAND:   Trust’s to replace the ‘akhand jyot’ (eternal flame) with LED bulb at the ancestral house of   Vallabhbhai Patel has sparked a row in Karamsad. 

 The trust which manages the 150-year-old Sardar House in Karamsad, where country’s first deputy prime minister had spent his childhood days, had recently replaced the ‘akhand jyot’ kept in front of the portrait of Sardar Patel with LED bulb. 
 
 On Tuesday, a group of locals gathered at the Sardar House to protest against the decision terming it a “shameful act” not befitting the stature of India’s Iron Man. “We are very saddened by this. The trustees should have consulted local residents and elders before taking such a step. Many PMs, presidents and public figures have visited the house to pay homage to the akhand jyot,” said  , a resident . 
 
 Another resident Nirav Solanki said, “It is shameful that those taking votes in the name of Sardar Patel cannot even afford 100 grams of ghee or oil to keep the flame burning.”
 
 Others in the group said that if the trust or the Karamsad Nagarpalika cannot afford, they are ready to voluntarily provide the required ghee or oil to keep the ‘jyot’ burning.
 
 After locals staged protest, Amit Chavda, president of Gujarat’s   unit too jumped in demanding that the state government and the trust ensure that traditions followed in such historic places are maintained. “It is a matter of faith for many who visit Sardar House. In form of the ‘akhand jyot’, they believed that Sardar was still alive,” Chavda said.
 
 Officials of the Sardar Patel Trust, however, told TOI that the decision to replace the ‘jyot’ with LED bulb was taken after advice from heritage experts and conservators. “Sardar House is a heritage building. A couple of experts had advised us not to keep the lamp burning for 24 hours as it may result into some fire mishap that could permanently damage to the building,” said Hasmukh Patel, secretary of the trust. 
 
 “Sardar House remains open for all irrespective of anyone’s political or religious beliefs. We cannot take the risk of keeping the ‘jyot’ burning even when we are advised otherwise by the experts,” he said, adding that it was two months back that the trust had replaced the lamp with the LED bulb which is connected with an invertor to keep the artificial lamp running as symbolic gesture. 
 
 Patel also refuted the claims that the ‘akhand jyot’ has been running since last 50 years. “It was nearly 8-10 years ago that a couple of youngsters from Nadiad had brought this ‘akhand jyot’ to the Sardar House. It has remained there since then.,” he said, adding that the lamp itself had no other historical association with the life of Sardar Patel. 
 
 The trust which also manages the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Veer Vithalbhai Patel Memorial apart from Sardar House was set up in 2000. 
 
 
