BHOPAL: Harsh sun and hot winds turned the City of Lakes into an oven on Wednesday, as the mercury shot up 44.4 degrees Celsius, making it the   of the season. What made it worse is that the scorcher of a morning came after a sweaty, uncomfortable night, one of the hottest of the season.

 
 And all this just 48 hours before the traditional onset of Nautapa — nine days of blistering heat. Mausam Bhavan in New Delhi has already warned that there will be no let-up in the heat in central and western India till May 27 (Nautapa begins on May 25).
 
  
 Streets were deserted in Bhopal and a majority of street vendors vanished on Wednesday as the heat shot up three degrees above normal. Bhopalis suffered through an unusually warm night — at 31.2 degrees, five degrees above normal. It was the third consecutive ‘warm night’ in the city. And as the day progressed, hot winds swept through the city and into homes at 20kmph.
 
 Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said hot and dry winds from   are pushing up the heat in MP. The highest temperature in the state was recorded at 47 degrees in  , followed by Sheopurkalan at 46.6 degrees. Intense heat will continue to bake the city and most parts of the state as summer reaches a peak, says the weatherman. On Wednesday, Mausam Bhavan put a third of the state on code orange — severe heatwave, where the administration needs to be prepared. The forecast for Thursday is worse, with half of the state painted orange, and the rest yellow (heatwave likely to persist for two days).
 
 There are three weather systems over the state — a trough over east MP to south Tamil Nadu, a cyclonic circulation over   and a trough over east Rajasthan to West Bengal across north MP and Jharkhand. These systems could lead to showers at some places, but the possibility of any respite in Bhopal is bleak.
 
 The temperature has been hovering around 42-43 degrees the state capital all of May, with the mercury stuck at 43.7 degrees for the last three days before shooting to 44.4 on Wednesday.
 
 On Tuesday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 32.7 degrees, which was seven degrees above normal and the hottest night of the season.
 
 With the minimum this high, houses, roads and offices that bake in the heat all day get no time to cool down before the sun comes up again. The forecast for Bhopal on Thursday isn’t too pleasing: 44 degrees during the day and 31 degrees at night, with hot winds blowing at 20kmph. The only hope is the prediction of a cloudy sky during evening hours, when parts of the city may witness thundery development.
 
 Heat wave warning has been issued for Gwalior, Chambal, Umaria, Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Damoh, Raisen, Rajgarh, Khandwa, Khargone, Dhar, Barwani, Burhanpur, Shajapur, Ratlam, Rewa and Satna. There would be warm nights at Sheopurkalan, Tikamgarh, Hoshangabad, Bhopal and Guna, met officials added. There is a possibility of thundery development at Jabalpur, Betul, Hoshangabad, Sagar, Damoh, Chhatarpur, Neemuch, Mandsaur, Aagar, Ratlam, Jhabua and Alirajpur.
 
