The world renowned   and visionary, Stephen Hawking, passed away at 76 on the early hours of Wednesday. March 14 will forever go down as the day that the universe lost one of its brightest stars. While the   community will face an unmeasured loss and will miss his contributions, the bright physicist was well-known for his sense of humour and his presence in pop-culture. A regular on shows like The Simpsons and The Big Bang Theory, he was even portrayed on-screen by Oscar-winner, ' ' star,   in ‘The Theory of Everything’. Even ‘Sherlock Holmes’ and ‘Doctor Strange’ fame   had once played him on-screen. Above all,   had taught many how to live with courage and Vizagites reflect on the impact he has left on them. 

  
 
 I was just talking to my friends about him this morning when I found out about his death. I believe the world has lost one of its greatest thinkers who, above all, has taught us that to be alive is to have hope. I think he will continue to give hope to every one of us who are still alive. There’s nobody like him in the field of science and he’s one of the brightest sparks that was created in this experiment called life. What he leaves behind is a massive legacy and that is something each one of us should reach out to till infinity. Long live his theories. 
 
 
 
  
 
 I will best remember Stephen Hawking as the public figure and best-selling author who zoomed around the world on a wheelchair. Words fail when I try to express the influence his quotes have had on my life. The best eulogy I can offer to him, is by talking about his quote that describe the understanding of human behaviour. He once said, “While Physics and Mathematics tell us how the universe began, they are not of much use in predicting human behaviour because there are far too many equations to solve. I am no better than anyone else at understanding what makes people tick, particularly women.”
 
 
 
  
 
 While Stephen Hawking never believed in the afterlife, he has done enough for his legacy to remain with us forever. His purpose may have been unique to his ability, but to me he is a role model for having lived his life beyond his ability. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Stephen Hawking is one of the greatest theoretical physicists of the present era. He is considered as a genius amongst the science community, to be counted along with Isaac Newton and Albert Einstein. Isaac Newton was considered as a genius in his era, so was Albert Einstein for their contribution. Similarly, Stephen Hawking has contributed much to the field of cosmology, be it about black holes or the origin of the universe via the Big Bang Theory. The radiation emitted by black holes is even called Hawking Radiation due to his discovery. The science community is proud of his achievements and he will be remembered forever in the history of humanity. He will continue to inspire many young scientists in the future and his legacy will live on. 
 
 
 
  
 
 His passing away leaves us with a deep sense of loss. He pioneered the realisation of Einstein's dream of unifying gravitation and quantum mechanics inspiring many scientists to venture into new avenues. 
 
 
 
 
 
