JAIPUR: AICC general secretary and former chief minister Ashok   on Thursday lashed out at BJP’s Centre and state governments and claimed that Prime Minister   would not be able to return to office after the next general election.

 Gehlot said,   governments everywhere have lost credibility as there was no law and order under their rule, houses of Dalits were torched in the presence of police during the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on April 2, incidents of rape and loot have risen and corruption was rampant.
 
 “Not a single section of the society is happy with Modi ji or CM Vasundhara Raje ji, who came to power by telling lies. Both stand exposed now. There have been 10 Lok Sabha bypolls in past four years and the BJP lost all of them. What does this show? Modi ji will not be the PM again. ‘Acche din aa rahe hain, Modi ji ja rahe hain’ (good days are approaching, Modi is leaving),” Gehlot said, talking to reporters at his official residence here.
 
 Gehlot targeted RSS too. “RSS has wandered away from its claimed ideology of protecting Hindutva values. Now it is enjoying power. It is just busy deciding who should be the PM or CM or minister. It would be better if it joins BJP and openly participates in politics,” he said.
 
 On BJP’s daylong fast led by the PM, the   leader said the saffron party learnt fasting from Gandhi ji, whom it earlier opposed. “I have been tracking this party and its leaders for past 45 years. They have been anti-Dalit, anti-reservation and anti-Gandhi ji. But now they are fasting like Gandhi ji used to do. One by one, they are embracing all the great Congress leaders. A time will come when they will accept Nehru also as their leader,” Gehlot said.
 
 He added, “When Congress fasted (on April 9), the effect was, there was no violence during the ‘Bandh’ on April 10.” Trying to douse the controversy over some Congress leaders eating at a restaurant just before sitting on fast on April 9, Gehlot said, “The entire Congress did not fast that day. Some leaders simply came and sat in support of those who were fasting.”
 
 The former CM held Raje-government responsible for the attack on former minister and Dalit leader Bharosi Lal Jatav’s house in Hindaun (Karauli district) on April 2 and 3. “The ex-minister’s house was torched in the presence of district SP and collector first on April 2 during ‘Bharat Bandh’ and then again on April 3. In fact, on April 3, the police asked Jatav’s family members to leave Hindaun as it was unable to protect them. Such a thing has never happened in Rajasthan,” Gehlot emphasised. “I met Jatav ji last evening. His throat choked while recalling the violence; mentally he has still not recovered of the shock. Yet, neither the CM nor her ministers nor the officials have met him till date,” Gehlot said, adding that Raje has lost the moral ground to continue in office.
 
 
