AHMEDABAD: The   on Wednesday said that the   (AMC) should pay compensation to those who sustain injuries in accidents caused by damaged  . A bench of Justice M R Shah and Justice A Y Kogje made the observation in response to a letter from Reenaba Waghela, which complained about accidents caused by such roads. In the letter sent to the HC last month, she complained that her husband Hitendrasinh fell from a two-wheeler in Vastrapur and sustained serious head injuries. Since the accident, he has been bed-ridden in a completely paralyzed condition. She also complained that the family is in dire financial situation as the expenditure incurred on her husband’s treatment is around Rs 30 lakh. She demanded stern action against those responsible for poor roads.

 The hearing before the HC was taking place on a PIL filed after last monsoon with regard to damaged roads. Petitioner’s advocate Amit Panchal mooted the constitution of a Public Injury Board for a compensation scheme for accident victims. The PIL also contained a prayer for devising a compensation scheme.
 
 When the HC asked the civic body to consider compensating such victims, the AMC’s counsel argued that many people would turn up with false claims. This led the judges to say that the city of Ahmedabad has its own pride, and citizens are tolerant. People would come forward for help only if they are made to suffer a lot, they said. The judges said that they would pass an order in this regard.
 
 The HC was annoyed with the sluggish pace of road repair works and expressed its displeasure at the way the civic body constructs speed-breakers. It sought to know whether any law or guideline regulates the construction of speed-breakers that is taking place in a haphazard manner. The judges also questioned why directions issued earlier are not being followed. The AMC admitted before the court that it is facing problems due to poor urban planning. The judges sought details of budgetary provisions and property tax collection from the AMC.
 
 The HC again questioned what actions the authorities have taken to deal with traffic situation on crossroads. The judges reminded the AMC of unrestricted parking outside hospitals and malls. They suggested that personnel inducted in the traffic department be trained. Further hearing is posted for next Tuesday.
 
 
