KOCHI: The question on everyone’s lips is – has Kochi lost its healing touch after citizens ignored the plight of three accident victims last week and walked away without extending them a helping hand.

 On Saturday evening, a middle-aged man from Thrissur fell from the third floor of a lodge near   near MG Road. Saji Anto of  , lay unconscious even as passers-by peered at him; nobody bothered of rushing him to a nearby hospital or call an ambulance. A woman’s presence of mind finally saved his life. She forcefully pleaded with   onlookers to take Saji to the hospital. On Sunday, two young bikers rammed a car near Padma Junction and sustained head injuries. While Arjun (24) lost consciousness and was barely breathing,   (23) managed to get up despite intense bleeding. A TOI reporter, who was passing by, sought help to lift Arjun from the middle of the road. For a while nobody came forward. Then a taxi driver and another good Samaritan stepped forward and took them to a hospital.
 
 Experts said that this change did not happen all of a sudden. They said that people refused to take accident victims to hospitals since they feared that they would get entangled in legal cases afterwards.
 
 “Instead of taking the injured to the hospital, they prefer to be a passive onlookers. They think about the legal mess and are not ready to carry the victim in his or her vehicle. They also think about the blood on the body that will leave a spatter on the seats. The empathy element vanishes then,” said psychiatrist CJ John.
 
 He added that nobody realizes that one day even these onlookers may become victims and face the same predicament of the injured. John recounted an incident in Kollam where a man walked away from an accident victim. “Later, he realized that the accident victim was his own son,” he said.
 
 Experts feel that the large crowd of onlookers had hampered rescue efforts by authorities many times. John felt that the government should include an awareness programme for rescue operation in the curriculum to bring a change in public attitude.
 
  said auto and ambulance drivers always help accident victims. “We cannot generalize all people as onlookers. Policemen won’t book rescuers in such cases. I will look into both accident cases,” he said.
 
  department authorities said that in government hospitals, there are only emergency care units. “We will start the first trauma care unit at Ernakulam general hospital next year. The construction work is in its final stage,” said deputy DMO Vidya.
 
 
