CHANDIGARH/KURUKSHETRA: The medical examination of a 15-year-old Dalit girl, whose half-naked body was found from the bank of a water channel in Haryana’s Jind district on Saturday evening, has indicated that she suffered Nirbhaya-like brutalities. The teenager was gang-raped and her body was brutalised by her assailants, who inserted a foreign object into her private parts that caused massive internal injuries.

 The extent of the injuries suffered by the Class X student is horrific, according to the head of PGIMS Rohtak’s forensic department. “In all, her body had 19 injuries — largely on face, head, chest and hands. Her lungs were ruptured, suggesting someone might have sat on her chest,” Dr S K Dattarwal.
 
 At the same time, water was found from her body. Her body parts were badly damaged, suggesting both unnatural act and gang rape. There were internal injuries as well, suggesting the assailants had inserted a foreign object,” Dr  , the head of the hospital’s forensic science department, told TOI on Sunday.
 
 “The girl was subjected to immense brutality. We have asked the police to provide us the scene of the crime report and photographs of the spot for confirmations,” he added. The girl was elder of two siblings, born to a tailor living in a village under Jhansa police station in Kurukshetra. She had gone missing with a 20-year-old person from her village and her family had got him booked in a case of abduction. The 20-year-old, who has not been identified, is missing from his village. As yet, there is no proof linking the man to the crime.
 
  
  
 
 Kurukshetra SP Abhishek Garg said an SIT under a DSP and four more squads were formed to arrest the accused.
 
 In Kurukshetra, the teen’s family refused to accept her body for cremation. They demanded the case be handed to the CBI, a government job for a member of her family, Rs 50 lakh from the Nirbhaya Fund, two arms licences. It was only after Haryana minister   assured them of a timebound probe and release of compensation, the family received the body for cremation.
 
 
 
