GURUGAON: Amid protest by the residents welfare association ( ) against delay in completion of pending infrastructure work in Suncity, the department of town and country planning ( ) has issued the   to the Sector 54 township.   is only the second township in the city, after Rosewood City off Sohna road, to get a completion certificate. 
 
 The township, according to sources, can now be taken over by the MCG as issuance of the completion certificate is the last mandatory procedure that needs to be completed before the handover. 
  
 Interestingly, the completion certificate was issued to the developer on January 16 this year, but most of the senior officials in the department are unaware about the development. 
  
 The residents, who have been protesting the delay in completion of pending work, alleged that the developer colluded with government officials to obtain the completion certificate. 
  
 When TOI visited the township, work on sewer lines was going on in front of houses C 71-C 74. 
  
 Residents said the work should have been completed before issuing the completion certificate. 
  
 The RWA has been opposing the authorities’ decision to issue the completion certificate to the project, alleging that the coloniser did not complete the pending internal development work. 
  
 The developer had applied for the completion certificate in December 2016, after which a team of officials from the senior town planner’s office visited the township and inspected the infrastructure along with residents. After this, a report was submitted at the town and country planning headquarters in Chandigarh. 
  
 However, residents alleged that there were several deficiencies in the inspection report as, according to them, it didn’t highlight improper sewer line, flaws in water supply and repair work on internal roads. 
  
 Several residents also alleged that 70% of pavements are missing in the township. According to them, electrical infrastructure is still incomplete as it has only 4.67 MW capacity as against the required 14 MW. 
  
 Rainwater harvesting and sewage treatment plants also don’t have the required capacity, according to residents’ claims. 
  
 VMK Singh, RWA general secretary, told TOI that once the completion certificate was issued, no developer would bother about the pending development work. 
  
 “Suncity residents will have to struggle as no one will take responsibility to carry out the pending work on water supply, sewage lines and internal roads,” Singh said. 
  
 Abhay Poonia, former president of RWA, said the DTCP overlooked all norms while issuing the completion certificate. “We will file a complaint at the chief minister’s office against the officials who had issued the document,” he said. 
  
 Asked if the builder had completed the pending infrastructural work already, Ankit Goel, director of Suncity Projects, said the DTCP had issued the completion papers to the project as per the norms and all pending work had been completed before that. 
  
 A senior official of the DTCP said internal development work within the residential project were completed by the builder as per the terms and conditions of the project licence and the approved plan, and only after that the completion certificate was issued. 
  
 Asked about the financial irregularities revealed in the audit report, he said the charges would be probed. 
  
 Meanwhile, the MCG has prepared a detailed project report for the takeover, which stated that Rs 18 crore would be spent for the upkeep of the colony in next five years. 
  
 
