KOLKATA: Eleven rallies and political agitations from 8am till late on Thursday left several hundred ICSC, ISC and CBSC examinees who will appear for their examinations tomorrow —as well as their parents — anxious. Although, unlike Thursday, police said Friday’s political calendar has only one scheduled programme at Esplanade near Lenin Statue at 4:30pm, the state   president’s threat to renew their agitation on Friday has left examinees fretting.

 Ashika Jain, a student of Queen of the Missions School, Salt Lake, appearing for her ICSE examination, said, “Personally, I haven't faced the brunt of political processions till now, but it’s frustrating to feel that anything might happen. I will keep extra time in my hands to reach the venue. Our politicians should change their perspective and keep education as their top priority. They should not hold any political meeting or procession during examination time.”  , a student appearing for ISC exam from   in   said, “I am lucky that my school is within walking distance from home. But several of my friends travel long distances and may be affected. The examination is far more important than political rallies.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Academics also raised concerns. “During exams, any kind of delay due to processions or agitations always disturbs students’ minds and distracts their focus from the examination they are about to take. The elders should keep that in mind because students should be kept stress-free,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission School. “Political rallies are best avoided during exam time. The political
 
 parties should have some empathy for youngsters,” said  , principal of  .
 
 However, the secretary of Board of Governors of La Martiniere School, Supriyo Dhar, said, “We will advise students to leave homes early so that they can reach the examination centres well in time. Candidates should be prepared for any eventuality. It is no point criticising political parties.”
 
 Thursday’s rally and procession schedule had left police at their wits end. Around 1pm, the Rashbehari Crossing agitation and the ruling party’s Mayo Road programme started. Several hundreds clashed at Rashbehari crossing, but police managed to keep the traffic moving till 2.40pm when the main BJP rally reached the site. Only the west-bound traffic from Rashbehari was diverted along Tollygunge Phari and Hazra Crossing. “We changed the signals to manual mode and did not allow cars to pile up at the crossing,” said a traffic cop.
 
 At Mayo Road, nearly 25,000-30,000 people converged, leaving Brabourne Road, Central Avenue and SN Banerjee Road to bear the brunt of traffic disruptions.
 
