MUMBAI: Even as Chief Minister Devendra   described Budget 2018 as a historic one, state   president   and senior bureaucrats said  , and Mumbai in particular, have got a raw deal.

 Chavan said considering Fadnavis’ goodwill with both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and finance minister Arun Jaitley, more was expected from the Budget for Maharashtra. “I am told a few crores have been sanctioned for the Mumbai suburban network, but the rest of the state, including backward areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha, have been deliberately ignored.”
 
 Chavan further said a day after railway minister Piyush Goyal declared that a coach manufacturing factory would be set up in Latur, in his budget speech, Jaitley announced that it would come up in Gujarat. “Under the NDA government, all-out efforts are being made to reduce the importance of Mumbai,” he said.
 
 Senior bureaucrats expected huge grants for the Rs 42,000 crore Nagpur-Mumbai super expressway, an International Finance Services Centre as well as the housing sector. “We were expecting that in view of the state government’s critical financial situation, Jaitley would declare financial assistance for the Nagpur-Mumbai super expressway project but it did not find a mention in his prolonged speech. So far, the state government has not been able to raise funds for the chief minister’s dream project,” said a senior official.
 
 Two, the official said the fate of International Finance Services Centre, another dream project of Fadnavis, hangs in balance. “Recently, Jaitley told the Parliament the Mumbai project will be considered only after optimum utilization of the Gujarat centre.” The official added that the Centre was expected to grant special financial assistance for upgrading infrastructure of Mumbai. “I don’t know if Fadnavis had asked for special assistance, but it needs a special grant of at least Rs 1,000 crore.” 
 
 Three, at a juncture where the Centre has drafted the housing for all by 2022 project and homes constructed under PM Awas Yojana are expected from payment of GST, the same concession is not extended for projects under the SRA schemes. 
 
 
