

 
 Honestly, I never knew I’d end up acting opposite Madhuri until I got a call from Tejas (Deoskar, the director). I almost said no to the part, given that Tejas’ shoot dates were clashing with another project. But things just fell into place, and I was soon on board. Madhuri is paired opposite me for her Marathi debut; I think that’s big!
 
 
 We’re all in awe of Madhuri, but not once did I feel like I was working with a star. There’s this thing about people like her; they always make their co-actors feel comfortable. It has been 30 years since the release of Tezaab (her first commercial success), yet her passion remains untouched. Tejas is a relatively young director, but Madhuri was always open to suggestions. That’s the hallmark of an actor who has been around for years. This is something many actors today can learn from people like Madhuri.
 
  
  
 
 Pune is second home to me. This is where I shot for my first show, Faster Fene. In 1996, we were stationed at FTII for a month while shooting for another TV show. I also have memories of performing plays at Bal 
 Gandharva Rangmandir. Besides, Chinmayee’s (his wife) parents are also from Pune. Work or otherwise, the city is close to my heart.
 
 
 You’d actually need to ask my wife and children about how they rate me as a husband and father, but I’m definitely not like Sahil, and Chinmayee thankfully isn’t like Monisha either (laughs)! I’m quite a chill family guy, but I have my own shortcomings. I have this OCD, where I need to see everything clean and in order. That way, I’m similar to my dad, but not nature-wise. He’s the calmest person I’ve seen. I am hyper!
 
 
 I have no idea how soon that will be. Singing for a live audience is different from doing so in a recording studio. But if any music director is willing to put his money on me, I wouldn’t disappoint!
 
  
  
 
 
 It has been very encouraging and satisfying. But what’s important is that Marathi films have also come of age. There are some amazing scripts. With young, dynamic directors on the scene, and big names like Riteish Deshmukh and Ajay Devgn investing in the market, the industry’s future looks very promising. There are no stars over here; content is king. It is a great time to be a part of the 
 industry.
 
 
 
 
