KOLKATA: As the euphoria over the first successful   in the city ebbs, health administrators, doctors and organ donation activists are bracing up for a challenge — to get the critical care and trauma experts the confidence to declare a brain death when they clinically diagnose one instead of allowing the opportunity to slip away. This challenge should have been overcome years ago, but remains the biggest hurdle in giving the movement the desired impetus.

 
 “The heart transplant that happened at Fortis is a landmark event. But we cannot lose
 
 sight of the fact that the heart came from Bengaluru. The next goal should be to find donors locally and transplant the organs here. Hopefully, one day, there will be enough organs at hand to actually transport a patient from Bengaluru or elsewhere to Kolkata and undertake the heart transplant,” said commodore V M Swami, an activist working on deceased organ donation.
 
 Though the first brain-death declaration happened in 2012, there have been only nine cases thus far, of which, organs could be harvested from eight patients. Critical care doctors admit that each hospital has at least one brain-stem death every month, but the matter is not reported. In contrast, there have been 850 deceased organ donors from Tamil Nadu between 2012 and 2017, and 459 from Andhra Pradesh-Telangana combined.
 
 Dr V V  , nephrologist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals, says the reticence of critical-care specialists is due to battering that private healthcare facilities have received both from the public and the government in the past couple of years. “Right now, the credibility of private healthcare in Kolkata is only slightly better than the legislators in Karnataka. The government needs to back the movement,” he said.
 
 Arpita Roy Chaudhuri, joint director of Regional Organ & Tissue Transplant Organisation, who has been driving the initiative for a couple of years, pointed to the need for a change in mindset across sectors. “The heart transplant that happened on Monday established that Kolkata has the infrastructure to carry out such a complex procedure. While transplanting liver is more complex surgically, given that the organ is much smaller than the heart, in case of heart transplants, the outcome is immediate: either the recipient survives or dies on the operation table. The next logical step has to be retrieval of heart in Kolkata for transplant here,” she said.
 
 The first heart retrieval would actually have happened on November 10, 2017, when Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences declared Kalyani Sarkar brain dead.
 
 “Unfortunately, the prospective recipient who lived in Chaibasa, Jharkhand, could not arrive on time. Hence, only the kidneys and the liver were transplanted,” said Aditi Kishore Sarkar, state nodal officer for deceased organ donation.
 
 Most senior medical professionals in the city viewed heart transplant as science fiction when they were in medical school. Though the first heart transplant happened in 1967 when 53-year-old South African grocer   received a 25-year-old accident victim’s heart, Sarkar recounted that even during his days at RG Kar in 1974, they viewed reports from the US and UK on developments in heart transplant with a sense of disbelief. But that has changed now.
 
