KOCHI:  , the high-quality black pepper from Rajakumari and surrounding highrange villages, is losing its premium price in the market, said exporters. Due to its relatively high density, size and quality, this variety of pepper had been commanding a premium of Rs 25-30/kg as it had been demanded by snacks and seasonings manufacturers.

 “Usually, Rajakumari pepper is in great demand among buyers, but this year it has fallen drastically with almost no takers for it,” said Jojan Malayil, CEO of  , a leading exporter of spices. Compared to pepper from other regions, Rajakumari pepper has a higher density of 610-620g/litre in comparison with the produce from Adimali or Kumily that have a density of 560-570g/litre. Also, this variety is bigger in size (described as ‘extra-bold’ in trader parlance) with dried, wrinkled berries having a minimum size of 4.25mm and above.
 
 
 “Though density remains the same, the percentage of bolder berries has reduced drastically over the past three to four years,” Malayil said, adding that deterioration in soil quality and changes in weather pattern were the reasons for this decline.
 
 Siby Kollarackal, a pepper merchant of Rajakumari, said that he was confronting the issue of low-demand for his stock this year. “Usually, intermediaries who collect the product from us and sell it in Kochi could dispose the product in a day. However, now they say that it takes up to one week to find buyers,” he said.
 
 “Earlier, you were able to get 35-40 kg of extra-bold berries during the grading of 100kg of ungarbled pepper. This has come down to 25kg now,” said Joy Olickal, a wholesale dealer who supplies to trading firms in Kochi, the terminal market for black pepper in India. Olickal observed that the density of berries declined as there was a rain shortfall. “Three years ago, the average density was 650g/litre, which declined to 560-570g/litre last year due to drought. With timely rain during the current crop year, it has grown to 600–610g/litre,” he said.
 
 Principal scientist at   in Kozhikode   said that there were solutions. “We can restore the quality of soil by amelioration process. The deficiency of   could be cleared by foliar spraying of micronutrients. Another reason for deterioration in quality of pepper is soil acidity which was caused by erratic rainfall. This can be rectified by irrigation,” he said.
 
