They've got the oomph, the aah-titude and the panache. Some surprises, some regulars, but each of these divas are stunners. Here are the ladies you've voted for and chosen as the   30   in  . 

 
  She came, she saw, she conquered’ — that would best describe Oviya. The actress shot to instant fame after taking part in the reality show, Bigg Boss Tamil. Be it her cutesy expressions, her famous line “Neenga Shut Up Pannunga” or the way she pulled off the tongue- twister “Kokku Natta” — she swayed the hearts of the audiences across the globe. The darling of masses is what she became on the reality show, and even as we speak to her now, she is fun, crazy and charm personified. When we tell her that she’s   Woman of 2017, decided through a month-long online poll, and she is stumped. “Ennala namba mudilla,” she says. An actress with all heart and no airs, Oviya’s easy charm and girl-next-door appeal have fetched her an army of fans that she still finds unbelievable. Instead of riding the popular wave, Oviya has not let it go to her head and is thoughtfully choosing her projects.
 
  She’s crashed through the glass ceiling to be now christened as the Lady Superstar. One of the most-in-demand actresses, her presence in a film is almost akin to its BO success.
 
 There’s Vignesh ShivN in her life.
 
 Her enigmatic personality, her feminine allure, her mystique... what more do we say!
 
 
 Spyder with Mahesh Babu, Theeran Adhigaram Ondru with Karthi and a film with each Karthi and Suriya are proof of her popularity in K-Town . 
 
 Single, but very open to marriage whenever it happens.
 
  A looker, this girl is bubbly, quick-witted, and a karate and golf champ to boot.
 
 
  Yamaha Fascino Miss Diva - Miss Universe India 2017, she’s a Chennaiite by birth and at heart.
 
  She has the universe at her feet, so we’ll have to see who sweeps her off hers!
 
  She’s gorgeous and very unaffected by her success. And how can we not mention her tresses!
 
 
 She’s Kollywood’s ‘queen’! An actress who’s shared screen space with all the K’ town biggies, Kajal is in it for the long haul.
 
 She’s single but that’s not enough for rumour mills to not spin a few tales every now and then.
 
  Confident, very much her own person, a fabulous sense of style, and those shiny pearly whites!
 
 
  She maybe a firang import, but Kollywood has claimed her as its own. There’s much excitement about her 2.0 with the Superstar.
 
 She’s been in and out of relationships. Her social media handle is a good place to get updates on that. 
  She oozes oomph and sex appeal, and glamour is her middle name.
 
 
 The multi-talented Andrea won plaudits for her acting in Taramani, her badass coolth in Thupparivaalan and her fearlessness in Aval. 
 
  The love of her life is music. Guys, so you know how to woo her.
 
 She defines the contemporary woman — smart and sexy.
 
 
  Sanchana, who finished top 3 in the fbb Colors Femina Miss India Tamil Nadu 2017, rocked 2017 with her role in the web series As I'm Suffering From Kadhal. She also has 2.0 in her kitty.
 
  She’s apparently in a relationship.
 
 Her innocent charm, her vivaciousness, and her energy are huge draws.
 
 
 Critics only had good things to say about the way Miss Universal Peace and Humanity 2013 Ruhi Singh carried herself in her debut Tamil film, Bongu.
 
  She is quite single at the moment and is in no mood to get married. So men, lay off!
 
 She carries her oomph with class. 
 
 
  This fbb Colors Femina Miss India Tamil Nadu 2017 has everything going for her. This engineering graduate is now set to make her Kollywood debut with Kasu Mela Kasu. 
 
  Hard to believe that this sassy lass is single. 
 
 Those captivating eyes and that mesmerising smile has helped her earn a spot on the list.
 
 
  After wowing audience with her performance in Kaatru Veliyidai, she is back with Mani Ratnam’s Chekka Chivanda Vaanam. 
 
  She’d like to date someone who has self-respect and a sense of humour. 
 
 Her petite figure and diva-esque personality have always won hearts. 
 
 
  She waltzed into the hearts of men, thanks to Bigg Boss Tamil. She is now busy with Pyaar Prema Kaadhal, which is already generating a lot of buzz. 
 
  With so much happening in her professional life, who has the time for love?
 
 A hot bod and super confidence to carry it off make her desirable.
 
 
 This Kaaka Muttai actress forayed into Bollywood with the highly acclaimed film Daady last year. 
 
 She’s been in two relationships previously, but Aishwarya says the third time she falls in love, it will be for keeps! 
 
  This powerhouse performer has a raw sex appeal and doesn’t shy away from flaunting her sensuality.
 
 
 Bãhubali 2: The Conclusion — it’s enough to define her success last year. Over the years, Anushka has proved herself to be one of the most bankable actresses in the industry. 
 
 Rumours were rife that Anushka was dating Prabhas. But the actress asked fans to not expect Baahubali and Devasena-like chemistry in real life. 
 
 She’s tall, stately, and yes, very regal, too.
 
 
  A look at her filmography will tell you that she has been juggling commitments in Tamil and Telugu industries with much ease. For her, 2018 started on a high with the release of Thaana Serndha Koottam. 
 
 The actress tells us that she hasn’t ever fallen in love, but is quite open to the idea.
 
 Her eyes speak volumes and this bubbly girl steals your heart with her charm and simplicity.
 
 
 : Chennai girl Samantha has been juggling both Telugu and Tamil film industries with ease and has been successful in both. 
 
  Her wedding to Tollywood star Naga Chaitanya gave many girls #weddinggoals. 
 
 This feisty girl is a great combination of confidence, style and talent.
 
 
 She has had a steady and meteoric rise in the industry. While she had Bãhubali: The Conclusion to her credit last year, she is now busy with over six films this year, including the remake of Queen. 
 
  She is ‘committed’ to her career. 
 
  Her innocent smile and expressive eyes is a winning combination.
 
 
 After winning hearts with her TV show, Kalyanam Mudhal Kadhal Varai, she made a breezy entry in Kollywood with Meyaadha Maan. 
 
  She is committed, but is fiercely protective of her personal life.
 
 She has an earthy charm.
 
 
 After making a spectacular entry into people’s hearts with her impeccable and stylish moves in Vanamagan, she is being touted as the next big thing in Kollywood. 
 
  Sayyeshaa says she is too young to get into a steady relationship.
 
 Flawless complexion, svelte figure and her captivating smile work like magic.
 
 
 The Pakka actress, who earned hordes of fans with Bigg Boss Tamil, has pinned high hopes on her future projects. 
 
  There were rumours of her dating a businessman, but Bindu maintains there’s no truth in that. 
 
  She is a good blend of girl-next-door and trendy diva.
 
 
  The actress-musician is busy with her dad Kamal Haasan’s Sabaash Naidu and also spends ample time making music.
 
 She is going steady with London-based actor Michael Corsale.
 
 Bold and beautiful. Yes, that’s her. 
 
 
  Quite a hot property in the fashion world, the buxom beauty has turned many heads with her stunning appearances in various shows. 
 
 Guys, she’s single. 
 
 This sizzling model’s perfect frame. 
 
 
  With an experience of over a decade-and-a-half, Trisha still gives other actresses a run for their money. 
 
 She has had a few link-ups, but is currently single.
 
 Her sky-high confidence, grace, and love for the four-legged furries make her desirable.
 
 
  Her magical voice has won her many admirers. Though her entry into films as an actress is still awaited, we’re sure it’s going to be worth the wait. 
 
  Single, now does that sound like music to your ears? 
 
 Smile that reaches her eyes, and a voice that tugs at your heartstrings. 
 
 
  After letting it rip as the senior Vijay’s wife in Mersal, Nithya is presently busy with Appavin Meesai.
 
 This effervescent actress is so occupied with work that she has no time for a relationship. 
 
 Her mischievous smile and go-getter attitude make her hot 
 property.
 
 
  She made a mark in films like Maanagaram and Saravanan Irukka Bayamaen. Now, everyone’s attention is on Mr Chandramouli and her Telugu film Awe.
 
 Single, and she dismisses reports of her dating actor Sai Dharam Tej as just rumours. 
 
 Those killer curves and killer attitude are such a lethal combination. 
 
 
  She captured the attention of audience with her first film, Meesaya Murukku, and is now busy with the much-anticipated Naragasooran. 
 
  Hard to believe, but this hottie is single. 
 Desirability Quotient: She has a sharp sense of fashion and a mesmerising smile.
 
 
  She raked up a storm with her performance in Thiruttu Payale 2, and is now busy with Bhaskar Oru Rascal and a psychological thriller, Raatchasan. 
 
 She is presently enjoying her single status. 
 
 Her don’t-care-attitude and her insouciance add character to her 
 persona. 
 
 
 Last year she was seen in special numbers in films like Motta Siva Ketta Siva and Khaidi No 150. But what made it truly special was her B-Town debut, Julie 2. 
 
 She is rumoured to be dating choreographer-actor Veer Aryan.
 
 Her bikini bod, which she carries with much confidence. 
 
 
 This is one girl who isn't slowing down. After gaining popularity in Kollywood and Tollywood, she debuted in Mollywood with none other than Mohanlal, in his Villain. 
 
 She is yet to find the man of her dreams.
 
 She can slay you with her angelic face and innocent charm. 
 
