SRINAGAR: Authorities today imposed restrictions in parts of Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, as a precautionary measure to maintain law and order in view of the killings of three terrorists- one of whom hailed from the city, police said.

 Restrictions under Section 144 of the CrPc have been imposed in eight police station areas of Srinagar, a police official said.
 
 He said the curbs have been imposed in the jurisdiction of Nowhatta, Khanyar, Rainawari, Safakadal, M R Gunj, Maisuma, Kralkhud and Soura police station areas of the city.
 
 The official said the restrictions have been imposed as a precautionary measure to maintain law and order.
 
 Three terrorists were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in   area of Anantnag district of south Kashmir today.
 
 Two of the slain terrorists were identified as Eesa Fazli, a resident of Soura area of the city here and Syed Owais, a resident of Kokernag in Anantnag. The identity of the third militant was being ascertained.
 
 Meanwhile, a spontaneous shutdown was observed in many areas across the valley as shops and other business establishments were shut and public transport was minimal, the official said.
 
 Clashes between groups of youths and security forces broke out in several areas of the city, he said.
 
 He said stone pelting have been reported from Soura, Anchar, Old Barzulla, Lal Chowk and other areas of the city.
 
 Authorities have ordered closure of schools and other educational institutions as a precautionary measure in Srinagar and south Kashmir.
 
 Kashmir University has suspended classes for the day and postponed examinations as well. Islamic University of Science and Technology has also postponed examinations for today.
 
 Mobile internet speeds have also been reduced across the valley. Police have issued an advisory for the citizens, seeking their cooperation.
 
 "Your police seeks cooperation of citizens for maintaining order and ensuring peace. Today you will find restrictions in some parts of city # Srinagar. While it is a cause of inconvenience, we assure these control orders are temporary. For any assistance pl dial 100 (sic)," the Jammu and Kashmir Police tweeted.
 
