India's triumphant finish in the T20 series in South Africa was justly deserved. They were by far the superior team in both the limited overs series and outplayed the Proteas in just about every game. 

 
 True the Proteas were without their senior experienced players and the bowlers were relatively new to international cricket but the Indian batting was awesome and the bowling unit was not just restricting runs but also taking wickets. They also out-fielded the Proteas which is an even bigger achievement as the Proteas have been among the outstanding fielding teams in the world.
 
 
  
  
 
 Pakistan are still the number one team in the world in the T20 rankings because of their consistent performances and India will have to wait a few months before they can think of getting to the top side simply because they don't have enough T20 internationals to get ahead in the rankings.
 
 They do have the   in   next week which should be an engrossing event. The hosts Sri Lanka have been brilliant ever since   has taken over as the coach and on the recent trip to   they won all three formats but were especially devastating in the T20 series. 
 
 Bangladesh too have upped their game especially after the   where they not only got more T20 experience but the huge plus of their players sharing the dressing room with some of the world's best players and learning from them. They play fearlessly now and are capable of beating any team particularly in this format.
 
 India have decided to rest their star players after the arduous South Africa tour and this gives an opportunity to some young players to show their mettle and that they are ready for international cricket. These players have done well in the ongoing domestic limited overs games and won't be short of experience either as they play in the IPL too. 
 
 The selectors clearly have an eye not just on the 2019 ICC World Cup in England but beyond as some senior players may well want to retire from the international scene then.
 
 It should be an absorbing event as the T20 format usually is, but on the flat pitches of the Emerald Isle it could well be the batsmen who will be the setters and game changers.
 
