Tirunelveli: Members of the Tirunelveli district inland fishermen who depend on fishing in ponds and tanks for a living have threatened to boycott the local body elections to condemn the district administration and government for their alleged inaction on their long-pending demands that are yet to get a favourable solution. They said that their demands were genuine but were ignored. President of the association, P Murugesan said their key demand is seeking rights to fishermen cooperative societies for fishing in tanks, ponds and lakes under the control of the public works department (PWD). “Cooperative societies are given the right to do fishing in waterbodies in neighbouring Kanyakumari district. But only those with money, muscle, political and caste power are able to win the right to fish in Tirunelveli,” he alleged. Fishermen in their representation to the district collector also lamented that the government has not given them relief for the heavy losses they incurred during cyclone Ockhi. They said that fish they raised in netted enclosures were washed away when heavy downpour during the cyclone flooded waterbodies across the district from November 29 to December 1. “Fisheries department officials visited the affected waterbodies but have not helped us get relief,” Murugesan said. They also claimed that fingerlings were unavailable in the hatchery at Manimuthar dam, despite the government allocating Rs 13.65 crore for breeding them in six hatcheries across Tamil Nadu, including the one at Manimuthar, in 2016. They said that they are forced to depend on private hatcheries who fleece fishermen by charging four to six-fold more. Fishermen claimed that private players charged Rs 2,000 and above for 1,000 katla kendai variety fingerlings, against Rs 375 charged by the government hatchery. They added that they pay more than Rs 1,000 for 1,000 roghu and mirgal kendai fingerlings while it costs only about Rs 250 in the government hatchery. They appealed to the government to raise adequate stock of fingerlings in the hatchery at Manimuthar dam,” Murugesan said. 