NEW DELHI: Indian   (IOB) had been chasing a textile unit in Tamil Nadu for several years to recover its dues. But, it wasn’t until the threat of action under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code ( ) that the borrower came forward to clear the outstanding amount. Similarly, in Delhi,   is seeing several medium-sized companies come forward to settle their debt.

 
 “Wherever the unit is viable and assets are there, promoters are now coming forward to clear the dues. They don’t want to lose control of their company,” said IOB managing director & CEO R Subramaniakumar. The threat is bigger for SMEs, where the promoter has more riding on the venture. IFCI managing director Emandi Sankara Rao said that of the 14 companies identified by the NBFC, three have already come forward for settlement till December. Recovery from companies that were   added up to Rs 900 crore. A similar trend is expected next year and the cases referred to the NCLT (the bankruptcy court) will show results.
 
 “From a situation where the debtor was in possession (of assets), it is now the creditor who is in control,” explained IOB’s Subramaniakumar. While this quarter is going to make lenders bleed once again due to the RBI’s new provisioning norms, requiring them to set aside funds for even one-day delay in repayment, the recovery of loans locked up in sticky assets will pick up. Of around Rs 80,000 crore sticky assets,   hopes to recover around a quarter, the fraud-hit bank’s MD   had told TOI in a recent interview.
 
 “The mindset is changing. The cleaning process is nearing completion,” financial services secretary Rajeev Kumar told TOI. The mindset change that Kumar is talking about is not limited to borrowers but extends to state-run lenders, which have been forced to rework the way they do business in the wake of strict monitoring and new business strategies being pushed by the government. Although this has meant abandoning the universal banking model that was pushed by the finance ministry 15 years ago, lenders realised that being a fringe player in insurance or mutual fund does not make much sense. Similarly, from staff quarters to erstwhile headquarters, every real estate in portfolio is being reviewed to see if some of it can be used to raise cash.
 
 While these steps will alleviate the current problems, some practices under loan giving are being altered. For instance, the earlier model of having a consortium of 20-25 banks is being junked as only three-four lenders were calling the shots across various corporate loan accounts and juggling the loans between them. It also made the situation tough as a small lender held-up decision-making, often at the calling of the errant borrower. Even the role of appraisers and auditors in sanctioning the loans and valuing the assets is under the scanner.
 
 There are several practices that are now being dispensed with. For instance, instead of having the same executives deal with pre- and post-sanction action, roles are being split across banks. The earlier practice often resulted in fresh loans being given to keep the previous one as ‘standard asset’ in what is being seen as a case of conflict of interest.
 
 The finance ministry’s recent directive to scan all NPAs of over Rs 50 crore is also expected to throw up a large number of cases, where there was wilful default or fraud as the onus is now on bank managements to report all such cases to the government as well as law enforcement agencies. For the moment, there is emphasis on monitoring of all loans of Rs 250 crore or more to generate early warning alerts.
 
 
