NEW DELHI: On a day city traders observed a bandh,   and   reconciled their political differences to find a way to tide over the crisis resulting from the ongoing sealing drive. 

 On Tuesday, Congress leaders Arvinder Singh Lovely and Subash Chopra led by Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee chief Ajay Maken went to the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. AAP and the government were represented by Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, urban development minister Satyendar Jain, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, AAP’s Delhi convener Gopal Rai and MLA Somnath Bharti. Even though BJP was also invited to this all-party meeting, it boycotted it. 
 
 Sisodia said in the days to come, the sealing drive was likely to intensify and also reach the rural areas. “An all-party delegation will approach the (Supreme Court-appointed) monitoring committee to discuss the master plan and its interpretations among other related issues. The different parties will put forward their views,” Sisodia said. 
 
 While Kejriwal “missed” BJP in the meeting, AAP and Congress attacked BJP for missing an opportunity to “speak for the traders”. “We had a very good meeting with the representatives of Congress. BJP boycotted it. I wish BJP had also participated in the meeting in the interests of Delhi’s traders,” Kejriwal later tweeted.
 
 Sisodia said another such meeting would be called and BJP would be invited again. 
 
 BJP had earlier expressed apprehensions about the meeting, with MLA Vijender Gupta even advising other participants to wear helmets. More than half a dozen policemen were deployed additionally apart from the regular security deployment outside the CM’s residence for the meeting. 
 
 Maken came out of the CM’s house looking satisfied and said that he had “very fruitful” discussions on the issue and attacked BJP for missing the meeting. “We have given a representation to CM and AAP. It will be sent to BJP also. There is a solution against the ongoing sealing in the master plan and existing laws,” Maken told the media. He also advised Kejriwal to move court. 
 
 “I have requested Delhi government to ask the director local of bodies to direct the municipal corporations to inform the public about the reasons for sealing before the sealing is carried out. Because it is not being done now, there is chaos,” Maken said.
 
 He also raised the issue of the pending notification of 351 roads. Sisodia replie: “We have completed all preparations for the notification of these roads even though these are out of sealing purview. The government is likely to submit the matter to SC coming Monday,” said Sisodia. 
 
 AAP might pass a resolution in favour of traders in the assembly budget session and send it to the Centre for consideration. 
 
 
