Coimbatore: Hardly a week after TOI reported about the plight of the Mill Road, the city corporation has started repairing it.

 “We had dug up the stretch from Sukarwarpet Junction till Gandhi Park to lay underground drainage pipelines. We also replaced water pipelines that were very old. But, we did not lay the road as it was part of a scheme. Since there were several complaints and news reports about the bad condition of the road, we decided to patch it up. We will make it motorable and then lay the road after a few weeks,” a corporation official told TOI on Sunday.
 
 The stretch from the Vadakovai Junction till Sukarwarpet Junction comes under the state highways department, while the stretch from Sukarwarpet Junction till Gandhi Park Junction comes under the city corporation. The stretch from Gandhi Park Junction (Thadagam Road) is a state highway connecting Anaikatti.
 
 Last laid 20 years ago, the road has always been filled with potholes. “Even now, they are conducting just a patchwork. I want them to re-lay the entire stretch, because this is one of the major junctions in the city. It connects R S Puram to the Poo Market and the Town Hall. It is also one of the major stretches connecting Avinashi Road to Thadagam Road. The corporation had turned a blind eye to this road for more than a decade,” said Mohan A, an auto driver.
 
 Expressing his happiness about the road work, Arpit Bothra, a commuter, said the ride on the road was backbreaking. 
 
 Shruthi R, a homemaker, said accidents were frequent on the stretch due to potholes. “There were several potholes that were nearly one feet deep causing traffic congestion. Buses, lorries and cars that tried to avoid the potholes made it worse for two-wheeler riders,” she said. 
 
 City corporation officials said that they will re-lay the road soon. “The road will be re-laid after the patch work is done. Several roads are to be laid across the city and they are all a part of a package. Once that is sanctioned by the state government, we will re-lay them,” said an official.
 
 
