CLEARED SKHER

 Kolhapur: The civic body resumed clearing encroachments on the roads in the old city areas on Tuesday and 169 illegal structures. 
 
 Since the last one month, the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has undertaken the drive to remove roadside encroachments and illegal hawkers from the major roads. As of now, the encroachments along the major entry roads have been cleared. Over 500 encroachments have been removed since last one month and the drive was halted for over two weeks. 
 
 On Tuesday, the KMC deployed over 150 workers of Shivaji Divisional Market Office and secured heavy police deployment for the action. The encroachments along Bhausingji road, Shivaji Putala, Juna Rajwada, Jotiba Road, Karveer Nagar Vaachanalay, Bindu Chowk, Papachi Tikti, Gangavesh, Rankala Stand and Tarabai Road were removed. 
 
 The encroachments along these roads are always considered contentious as several times the KMC has faced opposition from the hawkers and locals. However, during Tuesday's drive, only minor scuffles took place at two places while at rest of the places, the drive was smooth. The KMC removed 33 cabins, 30 roadside stalls, part of illegally placed shades and hoardings. 
 
 Harshjit Ghatage, deputy city engineer of KMC, said, “We resumed the action following orders from higher officials. Along Jotiba Road, we appealed to the hawkers to not to disturb the visitors to Mahalakshmi temple. The roads such as Jotiba, Bhausingji and Karveer Nagar Vachanalay were opened for traffic after the illegal cabins and encroachments were removed.”
 
 Along Bindu Chowk road, the shop owners opposed the drive stating that they were not given enough time to remove encroachments and the KMC authorities will be responsible for the financial loss. Local hawkers’ representatives intervened and asked the officials to stop the action. In response, the KMC showed them the notices issued to the shop owners from time to time and continued with their drive. 
 
 The hawkers’ associations had opposed the no-hawking zone along these roads. The civic authorities maintained that soon hawkers will be identified and they will be allowed to sit along major roads leading to Mahalakshmi temple. However, till then, they will be considered illegal, added Ghatage.
 
 The KMC is going to continue the drive for next few days and its focus will be clear the internal major roads for smooth traffic flow.
 
 
