GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister   on Monday released the ‘Reuse of Treated Waste Water Policy’ at a high-level meeting in Gandhinagar. The policy, he said, aims at creating a water-grid, on the lines of power-grid, for reuse of treated waste water from urban areas. The plan is to set up sewage treatment plant in each and every municipal corporation and over 150 municipalities. States like Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and   have either adopted the policy in the last two years or in the process of approving a policy. 

 The plan is to fulfil 50 per cent of the requirement of water from retreated water in collaboration with the state’s industrial units, because the bulk of the retreated waste water is to be used by the industries. Rupani said that the purpose is to reduce the burden on underground and surface water. He said the month-long   launched on May 1 last created additional water storage capacity.
 
 Rupani said the latest waste water reuse policy is to make Gujarat ‘Panidar’, brimming with water, and leave drought behind. The government has undertaken task of setting up 8 to 10 desalination plants along the 1,600km long coastline. Approval for one such plant has been received. Tender has been issued to build a barrage near Bhadbhut on the   at a cost of Rs 2,800 crore. The Tupper Dam in Kutch and Aji Dam in Rajkot have been revived twice, thanks to Narmada canal waters. 
 
 Deputy CM   said the retreated water would be available at a cheaper rate that that from surface and underground resources, at the same time reducing the burden on traditional sources. The state’s per capita consumption of water from the Narmada and other irrigation projects is 600-700 litres per day for 6.50-crore people. He complimented the people for their support to Jal Sanchay Abhiyan. Under the new reuse policy a separate system for treating domestic or industrial sewerage is created. The policy encourages creation of decentralised water treatment plants and water reclamation centres in the midst of residential area as well. “Such decentralised small STPs can be built underground to avoid the problem of odour and parks can be maintained on the roof of treatment facility,” said a senior municipal official privy to the drafting of the policy. 
 
 
