BARWANI:   (CMHO) has directed Sendhwa block medical officer (BMO) to issue a show cause notice to   and   of Pisnawal sub health centre for running a tailoring shop at the health facility.

 The ASHA worker Mangla Dabar’s husband was running a tailoring shop at the   for the past 10 months in absence of proper monitoring system. The sub-health centre, 11 kilometres away from Sendhwa sub-divisional headquarters, had not witnessed any doctor or auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) inspection until January 28. 
 
 It gave courage to the ASHA worker and her husband to open a tailoring shop at the centre. Patients had to return from the centre and travel to Jhoplai and Sendhwa for treatment and medicines since the facility had turned into a tailoring shop.
 
 On Monday, Sendhwa block medical officer JP Pandit inspected the centre after he came to know about the tailoring shop through media persons. On the basis of his inspection report, CMHO Dr VB Jain issued show cause notices to ANM Shanta Suliya and ASHA worker Dabar. The tailoring was also removed from the spot.
 
 CMHO Jain said tailoring shop was not supposed to be run from the sub health centre. “Half of the portion of a sub health centre can be used for residential purpose by an ANM. But, at the Pisnawal sub health centre, the ANM had given the place to Asha worker because her house is being constructed. The ANM and her husband were using the sub health centre for their business purpose. It was affecting the sub health center function. Gram Arogya Kendra, which was shifted to sub health centre under supervision of ASHA worker since its building was in poor condition, was also not running at the centre,” Jain told TOI.
 
 Pandit told TOI that sector medical officer Dr OS Kanel has also been issued a show cause notice.
 
 Earlier, a youth, Mukesh was spotted ironing newly stitched clothes at the sub-health centre. When he was asked about the shop, he had told TOI that he had been working there for the past 10 months under the ASHA worker’s husband. Initially, a few villages protested their act, but later everything was settled.
 
 The husband of the ASHA worker too was asked about the shop and he fearlessly said that his house was being constructed and the ANM had allowed them to stay at the centre for cleaning purpose, so his family was living there for the past eight months.
 
 
