Madurai: With short distance bus fares hitting the roof, many travelers who commute often between towns in southern Tamil Nadu, preferred to take a train on Sunday, as train fares are cheap compared to TNSTC bus fares.   junction saw huge crowds trying to get a seat on a train.

 Bus fares were hiked over the night on Saturday and many people, who depend on the public transport, were hit hard. It was a common sight on Saturday, to see passengers arguing or pleading with the conductors of the buses as they did not have the required amount to purchase the tickets.
 
 Over twenty members of the communist party, who protested in Thirumangalam in Madurai and Melur on Sunday, were arrested by the police. However, many people who had to travel and thought that arguing would be futile made a beeline at the Madurai railway junction. The southern districts, including Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, and Kanyakumari are well connected by the railways, but many take the bus because of the fast journey. But on Sunday, many decided to take the train.
 
 Jayabaskar, of Tirunelveli, who works in Madurai said that he visits his parents during the weekends. But as the TNSTC bus fare which had been Rs 105 went up to Rs 162. He decided to take the train as the fare was only a mere Rs 35 in an ordinary train. “If I take an express train it will cost me only Rs 70, or a superfast express only Rs 85, which is 50 % less than the bus fare,” he said.
 
 Rahul Kumar, who studies in a college at Coimbatore comes home every weekend. “I came on Friday for Rs 125 and I am returning today to college and had to pay Rs 180. If only there was a convenient train service to Coimbatore, I will have to pay only Rs 60 for a journey,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, vendors from the villages around Madurai, who are being asked to pay double the fare for luggage that they carry, said that they will have to trade only on alternate days as the bus fare hike had hit them badly.   of  , said that she has to pay Rs 100 for a one-way journey with her luggage which was too high for her. “I will have to spend Rs 3000 on my bus fare alone, whereas my business during some months is only Rs 3000. So travelling every day will not be feasible,” she said.
 
 
