This year, actor   completes 30 years in the film industry since his debut in 1988 with Aparan. But a look at his recent filmography shows that the star is slowly trying to reinvent himself – through his looks as well as his characters. His recent outings in Telugu and Tamil industry are also in keeping with the trend.

 Just before starting work for the day on the sets of Ramesh Pisharody’s directorial debut  , Jayaram talks to us about being choosy, getting to work with his old gang again in Tamil and his son Kalidas’s much-anticipated debut as a hero in Malayalam:
 
 
 
 There’s no lead in the film. I think the old concept of ‘the guy who sings is the hero’ is done with in our movies. This film has 18 characters and each of them is different in their own way. The story happens on a New Year’s Eve. For me, the best part of doing the movie was that I could work with the old team of Sathyaraj sir, Nassar and Remya Krishnan. Also, working with director Venkat Prabhu and team is effectively like going to a party. The movie was shot in Fiji Islands, so all of us enjoyed being on the sets and working together. I have a lot of expectations for the film.
 
 
 
 I am unaware of the perception of the audience. I try to select good movies and do them. I am speaking from my heart, I have been extremely choosy about my movies. But the fate of the movies is not in our hands. That depends on the audience and you also need a bit of luck for that. For each of my films, I put in a lot of time, and once the shoot of a movie is over, I take a break of at least 30 to 40 days before taking up the next. I am also hoping that a lot of different roles come my way, especially after Panchavarnathatta.
 
 
 
 Yes, I have shaved my head and put in a lot of work to bring in a physical transformation of sorts. I don’t want to reveal much about my role. Pisharody and my co-star Kunchacko Boban are people I have good rapport with, and that always reflects in my performance.
 
 When they learn that Pisharody is directing the movie, people might be expecting something on the lines of Badai Bungalow with a lot of comedy segments strung together. But I think more than comedy, the film has emotions and he’s handled the script and the team as adeptly, like an experienced director.
 
 
 
 In the last 30 years, I have got many offers from the Telugu film industry. I remember, 25 years ago after my Tamil movie Purusha Lakshanam, many big directors had approached me to do the Telugu remake of the movie as well. But I wasn’t confident with the language.
 
 A lot of my Malayalam and Tamil movies were dubbed into Telugu earlier and in fact, I had done the Telugu dubbing myself for some of them. However, this was my first proper Telugu film and I am glad that I could finally say my lines fluently in this film.
 
 Also, the director of my latest Telugu movie G Ashok knew a bit of Malayalam and Tamil, and so it became easier for me to communicate. That also gave me confidence and is one reason why I could effortlessly dub in Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu for the movie.
 
 
 
 Poomaram will release in March. Cinema has always been his passion. Even for his first movie Kochu Kochu Santhoshangal, he was the one who chased Sathayettan (Sathyan Anthikad) insisting that he wants to act. So, he lives and breathes cinema. He wants to be part of good movies and doesn’t mind waiting for one or two years to do that. I believe that if he is sincere about his wishes and is dedicated, God will grant him his wish.
 
