NAGPUR: Almost on the verge of extinction, sighting of a flock of five endangered   in Kolamarka conservation reserve in   division of Gadchiroli during All Indian Tiger Estimation 2018, has raised conservation hopes.

 The wild buffaloes were sighted in Penkasa near   while walking on transect line on the first day of exercise on Saturday by forest staff and local youths who have been roped in for monitoring the species regularly.
 
 “This is perhaps for the first time geotagged pictures of the shy mammals could be taken from a close distance. The staff has also collected samples of scat and grass from the spot. We will send these samples for testing to labs to verify it is genetically pure breed,” said Tushar Chavan, deputy conservator of forests (DyCF), Sironcha.
 
 Wild buffaloes are listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and it has been listed as endangered in IUCN Red List. The genetically pure breed of wild buffaloes is only found in Sironcha and Indravati bordering  .
 
 Kolamarka was declared a conservation reserve on January 8, 2013, especially to save wild buffaloes. “Despite being a Naxalite-prone area, five years of fruitful efforts by staff and forest officials working here with local communities have borne fruits now,” says Chavan.
 
 “We hope there may be 28 wild buffaloes in Kolamarka. During last year’s estimation in March-April, 28 buffaloes were counted,” he adds.
 
 Central India head of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) Prafulla Bhamburkar says Kolamarka is divided by Indravati River adjoining Chhattisgarh. Wild buffaloes migrate both sides crossing the river.
 
 “In Kolamarka we sighted two wild buffaloes in 2009. Since then though indirect evidence was found abundant in the area, there was dearth of direct evidence,” Bhamburkar said.
 
 “Sighting of wild buffaloes is really heartening news. The success goes to better management practices and protection taken up in the reserve, especially with the help of locals,” said Satpuda Foundation chief Kishor Rithe, who pushed for notification of Kolamarka.
 
 Chavan attributes the conservation success to awareness drives among locals and constant monitoring and patrolling. “Besides, we are working on prolongation of favourable grass species and a proposal for funds has been sent under CAMPA,” he added.
 
 Chavan says tab on teak smugglers also added to biotic free zone. “We are doing our lot despite Naxalite presence, no road and network connectivity and no use of camera traps. We will welcome further scientific research in the field,” he said.
 
 
