PATIALA: The   on Friday rejected the interim bail application filed by former senior superintendent of police (SSP)   in a disproportionate assets case against after the vigilance bureau told the apex court that he was not cooperating in the investigation. The SC had earlier given Grewal interim bail asking him to join the vigilance probe into allegations of him amassing wealth worth several crores of rupees.

 As per the challan filed by the VB, during his postings as SSP of Moga and then Fazilka from 2005 to 2014, Grewal had amassed wealth that was disproportionate to his known sources of income.
 
 After being denied the bail by the district court and then the Punjab and   high court, Grewal had moved the apex court. Following the apex court’s order, Grewal joined the investigation and visited the VB headquarters on March 21. He was questioned there for over five hours.
 
 Vigilance bureau SSP Jaspreet Singh Sidhu said, “Though he had joined the investigations, he did not co-operative with the investigators and the same conveyed to the Supreme Court. We had requested immediate arrested of the accused for further investigations. Following this, the SC rejected Grewal’s bail plea and asked him to surrender before the concerned court.”
 
 In its order on Friday, the SC said the court was not inclined to grant interim protection to the accused and thus his special leave petition stands dismissed.
 
 The VB report had stated that during his tenure as an SSP, he resorted to massive corruption to amass black money and parked this ill-gotten money in moveable and immovable assets. The VB report says that the accused police officer bought benami land at different places across the state, besides putting around Rs 25-30 crore in fixed deposits. A search of bank lockers held by him and his family members also led to the recovered of around 40kg of gold and Jewellery, which the VB said been purchased with the black money collected by the former cop through illegal means.
 
 
