Kanyakumari: More than 40 days after cyclone Ockhi claimed the lives of many fishermen, their counterparts from Vallavilai in Kanyakumari district who went on a fishing expedition stumbled on the decayed and unidentifiable body of a fisherman in the Arabian Sea. Though the body was found on January 12 and videographed the same day on their mobile, it came to light only on Sunday due to network connectivity mid-sea. It may be recalled that this is the second body spotted by fishermen in less than a week’s time. The same day (January 12), a body was netted by fishermen about 34 nautical miles off Colachel.

 According to the fishermen, they spotted the body at a distance of 250 nautical miles from Kochi and about 60 nautical miles from Mangaluru on Friday. They shared the video and photographs of the body with fellow villagers upon reaching Kochi on Sunday evening. However, they did not being the body ashore as they were not well-equipped.
 
 Thirteen fishermen from the district, including Sango, 25, whose father Philip, 51, is one of the nearly 30 fishermen missing and feared dead from that village, had gone fishing in a mechanised boat from the Cochin Fisheries Harbour on January 7. They were engaged in deep sea fishing when they spotted the body.
 
 “The decayed body was getting damaged when the fishermen tried to retrieve it. There were also chances of us getting infected if we had carried it in our boat as it would take two days to reach the Kochi port,” said P Dickson of Vallavilai. Fishermen from the coastal village said that they have shared information about the location where they spotted the body to government officials in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. They suspect that the man could have died a few days after cyclone Ockhi struck as the possibility of a body floating for 45 days is close to impossible.
 
 So far, 18 fishermen from Kanyakumari district have been confirmed as dead. This includes 16 of them who were confirmed through DNA analysis. So far, 247 people have given blood samples for DNA matching with decayed bodies of fishermen that have been retrieved from the sea, said Kanyakumari collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan. Till Monday, 10 unidentified bodies are lying in the mortuaries of various government hospitals in Kerala and Monday was the last day for the kin of missing fishermen to give blood sample for DNA analysis. “The unidentified bodies could be of fishermen from Tamil Nadu, Kerala or other states who went fishing in boats of our fishermen,” the collector added.
 
 
