As we enter the auditorium of Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, we hear a flawless rendition of the evergreen melody Lag Jaa Gale… from the Sadhana -Manoj Kumar starrer ‘Woh Kaun Thi’. The man behind the mike is a 22-year-old singer from  ,  . What’s interesting is that Khakhraman doesn’t speak a single word of Hindi. He along with his family comprising his father Ermatov Rustamjon Gulomjonovich ( director), mother Ermatova Matluba Murotkhojaevna (producer) and siblings Gulomjanova Shaknoza (soloist and pianist), Gulomjanov Dostonbek (violinist and soloist) & Gulomjanova Robiyakohn (violinist and soloist) are in Coimbatore for their first ever concert in the city. The group, which was founded in 2010, is called   and the members are the winners of several international contests.

 Havas Guruhi recently performed their first Bollywood concert for a huge audience in Uzbekistan. “The concert was dedicated to the 25 years of diplomatic relations between Uzbekistan and India and it was a huge success,” begins an excited Rustamjon.
 
 So, how did the family get interested in Indian music? “Bollywood films are quite popular in Uzbekistan. Actors like Raj Kapoor, Shah Rukh Khan and singers Sonu Nigam, Shreya Ghoshal and Arijit Singh have a huge following there,” says Shakhnoza.
 
 Khakhraman, the lead vocalist, explains the family’s tryst with Bollywood. “My parents used to listen to the legendary actor Raj Kapoor’s songs at home and that’s how the Bollywood bug bit us. I grew up on a steady diet of Bollywood music. I tried to sing those songs but since, I didn’t understand the language, it was difficult for me to sing. So, I sought the help of internet and translated the lyrics to Uzbek. Once, I understood the meaning, it was a tad easier. I jammed regularly at home until I got the lyrics right. We performed our first concert in 2010.”
 
 The family is excited about their first ever concert-tour to India. “We have already performed in Delhi, Agra and Mumbai. Veteran actor Rishi Kapoor was in attendance at our Delhi concert. He said every time we performed a Raj Kapoor number, he had tears in his eyes. It was a great moment. We also visited the RK Studios while we were in Mumbai. It was a dream come true for us to visit the studio of the legendary Raj Kapoor, “says Rustamjon.
 
 The Uzbek music family group has also been experimenting with songs in Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Punjabi. Khakraman confesses, “We have tried singing in different Indian languages and I must say Tamil is one of the most difficult languages. We have been practicing Nenje Ezhu… and Ennodu Nee Irundhal… composed by  .” When asked if they had the opportunity to explore Coimbatore, Khakhraman says, “Yes, Coimbatore is beautiful. I especially loved the temples here. And, the streets are so similar to that of Uzbekistan. It feels like home.” 
 
