KOCHI: Services of the   were suspended after the concrete structure of an under-construction two-storey building near   station sank on Thursday night.

 No casualties have been reported, police said.
 
 The service from Aluva to Maharaja’s will end at Palarivattom on Friday due to safety reasons, authorities informed on Thursday evening.
 
 Metro services to Maharaja’s station will resume only after safety assessment, they said.
 
 The structure, around 30 metres in height, was being constructed for commercial purposes and was supposed to house the outlet of a Tamil Nadu-based textile group. Situated next to the culvert near   metro station, the building sank at around 9.30pm.
 
 Only the structure of the two-storey building was in place and piling work was reportedly going on when the entire structure sank, leaving little of it visible above the ground level.
 
 The impact left deep cracks on Banerji Road, forcing authorities to close road traffic. Services of Kochi Metro services were also stopped as doubts were raised regarding the structural stability of nearby pillars. Metro services from Maharaja’s College station towards Kaloor on Thursday night were ended at the next station whereas schedules from Aluva to Maharaja’s College ended at Palarivattom station.
 
 Metro services can be resumed only after a team of track experts conduct a safety assessment as the collapse had occurred close to the Metro site. According to Metro’s operational guidelines, a safety check is mandatory if the impact of any event is closer than 10 metres to a Metro site. The inspection was progressing at the time of filing of this report. A team of police officers, including city police commissioner M P Dinesh, reached the scene and put in place safety restrictions. District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla, MLA Hibi Eden, and a team of fire and rescue services personnel also assisted the police team. While the two-storey structure has sunk completely, another building adjacent to it is leaning to a side.
 
 Yakub Mohan George, a former PWD engineer, said the collapse at the piling stage could have been due to fault in piling work. Soil test is mandatory prior to construction and the land in the area is marshy and requires careful piling work, he said.
 
 
