AGRA: The controversy over Muhammad Ali Jinnah’s portrait in   Muslim University took an ugly turn on Saturday when some students from Dev Samaj College, backed by certain right-wing outfits, pasted the Pakistan founder’s pictures in public toilets across the city. In another development, the portrait of AMU founder Sir   disappeared from the PWD guest house. 

 
 Aligarh district magistrate CB Singh said that he has sought a report from the SDM in both the incidents. The DM, however, said, “PWD guest house is a state property and the decision on selection of pictures is made by the government.” One of the students TOI spotted pasting the picture inside a loo, said, “The right place for people like him who divided India is a toilet and not an educational institution.” 
 
 Principal of DS College, Hem Prakash, said that it was an attempt by certain mischievous elements to vitiate the atmosphere. “As soon as I came to know about the pictures, I got them removed,” he said. 
 
 However, the college students admitted to their involvement in the episode unabashedly. One of them, Amit Goswami, an ABVP activist, said that he had pasted Jinnah’s picture in the toilet. “This is a message for his supporters,” he said, adding that AMU students’ union must remove his portrait from the union hall. Meanwhile, Aligarh district vice-president of Hindu Yuva Vahini, Aditya Pandit, justified the students’ actions. 
 
 “Our CM has already said that   cannot be honoured in India and hence a toilet is the right place for his picture.” Meanwhile, the local unit of Shiv Sena on Saturday announced a cash award of Rs 5 lakh for the person who removes the portrait of   founder MA Jinnah from the AMU. 
 
 Local unit deputy in charge Ajay Chaubey said, “Any person from any caste or community who removes the portrait of Jinnah would be given a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh by the party.” He also demanded that a case of treason be lodged against AMU authorities for putting up Jinnah’s portrait in the campus. He added that Jinnah was a villain who forced the division of the country on communal lines.
 
