MUMBAI:   finally announced commencement dates of semester-end   on Friday. But students will have to wait for a few more days for the exam schedule. The dates were approved at the board of examinations meeting on Friday.

 While some college   complained about lack of planning in deciding exam dates, many believe assessment of papers will run into the summer vacations and will impact the announcement of   again.
 
 A university official said the exam dates are similar to last year. “The final   for TYBCom exams considered to be taken by the most students (over 80,000) commences on April 3. By the time it ends in the second week of April, we have scheduled the first year exams. Teachers will have to start assessment work immediately after TYBCom exams to ensure against delays,” said the official. Dates for engineering exams are yet to be announced.
 
 But principals and teachers are not convinced with the schedule. “The policy of having a uniform time-table for first and second year exams across colleges will continue to have an adverse impact on final exam results. Teachers will be busy conducting exams throughout April and to an extent in May. They are likely to get time for assessment only in May, when vacations begin. We cannot expect them to work throughout the year without a break,” said a principal.
 
 Prior to 2016-17, colleges completed first and second year exams by the third week of March and they focused only on university exams that commenced in April. Despite requests from several principals to decentralize exams for first and second year, the university decided to continue with it.
 
 Another principal pointed out that the university has not yet taken punitive action against colleges whose teachers do not participate in assessment. “With no action against such teachers and colleges, they will continue to skip assessment work, delaying the process. Papers are yet to be assessed in law and post-graduate exams. All this is likely to delay results again and impact next year’s admission season too,” said the principal.
 
 A teacher said, “We were expecting a cascading effect of last year’s chaos to continue for two to three exams. The university needs to take serious efforts to contain it. We can see a lack of proper planning in deciding exam dates. There are printing errors in commencement dates released by the university. According to the schedule, few exams are scheduled on March 4 and one is in April. Such goof-ups could have been avoided.”
 
 
