MUMBAI: Days after the   ( ) became the first campus to get   hostel space, some of the students have raised “objections” to the   issued by the institute.

 The notification issued last week states that “self-identified transgender, non-binary, gender non-conforming persons can apply for rooms in the gender-neutral hostel”. The notification was a culmination of students’ demands and campaigns over the years.
 
 A student from the campus said that though the institute had the right intention behind allowing it, the purpose of calling it “gender-neutral” is lost if the notification specifies who can apply. “It is a gender-neutral space, so as the name suggests it should be neutral and accessible for   of all genders. Since it is the first year and there are fewer rooms, preference could be given to transgenders, non-binary and gender non-confirming students, but it is not a transgender hostel. We have asked the institute to make changes accordingly and they have agreed,” said a student. “Though we need a secured space, we do not want it to be segregated. The point of inclusion will be lost,” the student added.
 
 The hostel should be open to allies of transgender, non-binary identifying and gender non-conforming students too, said the students at a meeting with institute officials on Wednesday. An ally may be a cis woman or a cis man who may identify as heterosexual, gay, bisexual and is someone who supports rights of trans persons too, believes in equal civil rights and takes a stand against discrimination on the grounds of sexuality, said a student. So far, 13 students have applied for rooms in the facility.
 
 It was decided that to ensure the space is safe for all gender-diverse persons and their allies, the hostel committee will be formed to have a preliminary conversation with anyone who wishes to apply.
 
 P K Shajahan, dean of students’ affairs, said the institute will appoint a warden exclusively for the gender-neutral hostel and will be identified by members of the gender amity committee, which will have faculty and students’ representation. “The committee will frame guidelines, issues of access and mobility, which are essential for running this facility. The students have said they do not want it to be segregated and also not open-for-all without regulations,” said the professor.
 
 
