NOIDA: Tension prevailed in   of the   area near Noida Extension on Friday after a statue of B R Ambedkar was found vadalised. Locals said it was an attempt to instigate sectarian tension in the village ahead of   on Saturday.

 The   is suspected to have happened on Thursday night and came to light early on Friday when morning walkers spotted the damaged ears and nose of the statue that stands inside a park in the village close to Mahagun Mywoods housing society in Noida Extension.
 
 As soon as the news spread, local residents gathered at the spot and staged a protest, demanding the arrest of the culprits. They dispersed only after the district administration brought a new metal statue from Aligarh and replaced the old one, made of cement, in the afternoon.
 
 Local residents said the village has no history of communal divide. “This can only be aimed at disrupting Ambedkar Jayanti celebrations on April 14,” Kuldeep Singh, a local resident, said. The village has 60% Jatav and Dhobi population and 40% Yadavs.
 
 “The statue was installed at the park 25 years ago. In 2010, Noida Authority beautified the park, adding a fence and some neem trees. The boundary collapsed at several points and there is no check on people’s entry,” Singh said.
 
 Laxman Singh (70), former village headman, said people have been living in communal harmony for several years. “The village population comprises mainly STs and OBCs. They all have great respect towards Ambedkar. We do not know who vandalised the statue,” he said.
 
 The district administration had deployed two constables at the spot after the April 9 protest by Dalits across the country on the SC/ST Act, sensing the statue might be a target. On Thursday evening, the cops had left the park, after which the vandalism happened, officials said.
 
 “They left the spot for some other work at night. We have launched an investigation and a report will be filed against the constables. We have also registered a case against unknown persons for vandalism,” said SP (rural) Suniti. “The police team and local intelligence unit have been alerted to gather information about the miscreants,” she added.
 
 SDM (Dadri) Amit Kumar said. “We are taking all necessary action. We will form a committee comprising local residents. The residents will mutually decide on the statue’s safety measures and submit their recommendations. The park’s boundary wall will be repaired and a gate will be fixed.”
 
 This is the second time an Ambedkar statue has been vandalised in Gautam Budh Nagar in the past two years. On August 24, 2016, a statue was vandalised in a Noida Sector 37 park. A case was registered against unidentified persons under Section 427 (creating mischief) and Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups) of IPC but no one has been arrested till date as there was no witness.
 
 On August 9, 2016, Bisrakh had witnessed another incident of statue vandalism when a group of miscreants defaced an idol of Ravana and another deity at a local temple. Locals believe Ravana was born in Bisrakh, which is why he has an idol in the temple.
 
 Lakhmi Singh, BSP president in Gautam Budh Nagar, said the police should investigate and bring the accused to justice. “In both cases of Babasahab’s statue vandalism, we protested and demanded swift action. The district administration manoeuvred swiftly and controlled the situation. But no criminal was arrested,” Singh said.
 
 
