KOLKATA: It is present perfect and future tense for Kolkata’s   projects.

 The five Metro projects on the ground in the city — the showpiece  , the two links to the city’s airport (the New Garia-Airport line and the Noapara-Barasat via Airport line), the Joka-BBD Bag route and the   line — will not suffer from lack of funds, show the allocations for railways in this year’s  .
 
 But a question mark hangs over the fate of the four proposed Metro lines that are extensions of either existing routes or routes on which work is on or fresh routes (Kavi Subhash-Baruipur, Barasat-Barrackpore, Joka-Diamond Harbour and Kolkata Terminal-Salt Lake). CM   said this was an exa-mple of the Centre’s stepmoth-erly treatment of Bengal.
 
  
  
 
 The ongoing projects have got adequate funds that will ens-ure work does not stall or slow down, say officials. The allocation for the four ongoing projects directly under Metro Railway has gone up from Rs 620 crore in 2017-18 to Rs 768 crore in 2018-19. The outlay for the E-W Metro corridor has come down from Rs 1,937 crore to Rs 1,100 crore but officials said land hurdles in 2017 prevented them from using up even 50% of the allotted sum. These projects would not suffer, they added, as they were being directly monitored by the PMO.
 
 “This will be made up this year and the outlay revised accordingly. Work is progressing in full flow and there will be no lack of funds. We are starting with Rs 1,100 crore but there will be more funds available when required,” a   official said. Nearly 70% of 2017-18’s target has been met and this will be 100% by Ma-rch-end. “The stretch between   Sector-V and Salt Lake Stadium can be commissioned this June,” the official said. 
 
 But the zero allocation for the four proposed lines, for which surveys have been completed, has put a question mark on their fate. “The surveys have just been completed and it will now have to be decided whether the projects are viable and how much funds are required. Only after that can any allocation be made,” an official explained.
 
 
