NEW DELHI: A day after a six-year-old girl died   being allegedly raped, an FIR was lodged on Saturday. Police have invoked sections of POCSO and IPC (376) in the case. 

 Police have begun investigation to find out the culprit. They said the preliminary medical report has not ruled out   assault though the final postmortem report is awaited. 
 
 A senior police officer said they would question friends and relatives of the family and also record the version of the school administration to go to the bottom of the case. 
 
 On Friday, TOI had reported that the original observation of the medical board of  , where the autopsy was conducted, didn’t point towards sexual assault. Delhi Police had said quoting the medical team that there were no injuries on the body. “The girl died due to severe infection. So far, neither the family members nor medical reports have suggested any sexual assault. But we are waiting for the final postmortem report to take a final call on this,” DCP M N Tiwari had said on Friday afternoon. 
 
 But using the same report, police said on Saturday that they couldn’t rule out sexual assault. DCP Tiwari said on the basis of certain indications from the report, they have registered a case and taken the opinion of doctors. “Whatever information we have received did not rule out sexual assault. Our team is investigating the case from all angles,” he told TOI. 
 
 Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s statement that was issued to the media on Friday had clearly indicated the possibility of a sexual   and an MLC was registered in that regard. It had said that the girl was bleeding with injuries to her private parts, and upon detailed examination, the doctors had suspected sexual assault. 
 
 The victim’s grandfather said they were all very tensed due to the series of events that have happened, and didn’t approve of the way the police were examining them and calling them to the police station one after the other. 
 
 Other family members have, therefore, requested the school and a coaching centre the girl attended to provide them CCTV footage of the places she visited on Sunday and Monday. The grandfather said they have prepared a list of suspects and were trying to get to the bottom of this. 
 
 
