PORT ELIZABETH: India’s fielding coach   says wind will be a crucial factor when India take the field at St. George’s Park on Tuesday.

 
 “That is something that is important, especially for balls that go high up in the air. You have to keep that into account. No matter where you are fielding on the boundary line, you need to be aware which way the wind is blowing,” Sridhar said on the eve of the fifth One-dayer here, adding “accordingly you should be able to prepare in terms of wanting the ball to come to you”.
 
 He does admit that India’s fielding was “below par” in the last match played at the Wanderers. A catch dropped by Shreyas Iyer at deep square-leg allowed the dangerous David Miller to survive and in turn he set the pace for South Africa’s victorious chase.
 
 “One catch went down. Shreyas made a great attempt. It was not a Grade 1 catch, but it’s easy to be harsh on ourselves sometimes. It’s the easiest thing to do. But if you see, that was a difficult catch,” Sridhar said.
 
 Going into a game that could present India with their first ever ODI series win in South Africa, Sridhar said, “These things happen, but we are practising for them. We’ve got our players to pay attention to every little detail of every minute aspect of every skill, not just fielding. We try and do that every game”.
 
 On the road to 2019, India’s fielding is still a work in progress, especially given coach Ravi Shastri’s views that it is fielding that makes all the difference between a good and a very good team. While work lies in progress, Sridhar does believe this Indian ODI team has been right up to the mark more often than not.
 
 “If I’m talking about the One-day side, definitely there is more athleticism to be seen on the ground. It’s on view. If you see even the last three-four series, right from the Champions Trophy, in West Indies, against Australia and Sri Lanka, the athleticism on the ground has been good,” he says, adding “We have been saving more runs than we have been giving away. We have been saving a lot more runs than the opposition.
 
 “Definitely we are one of the better One-day fielding teams in the world. I can vouch for that.”
 
 Sridhar says the positive for this team is that the difference between the good and bad days is very less.
 
