CHENNAI: When the   rail's underground section at Anna Salai opens later this year, passengers heading to the stations can simply walk down a pedestrian subway to board a train. CMRL will be linking three underground metro stations at Saidapet, DMS and   with the existing pedestrian   nearby to provide easy access to commuters. 

 "In Saidapet and DMS, the pedestrian subways will be linked on one side. At the Government Estate metro station, the subway will be linked to the station on both sides of the road," a metro rail official said.
 
 The linking of pedestrian subways will not only make it easy for passengers to get access to the stations but also help cut down on the space that station entry structures take up. Further, these stations are close to the bus stops where many MTC buses plying to suburban areas halt.
 
 The DMS and Saidapet stations are part of the 3.3km stretch on Anna Salai which is expected to open in the next few weeks. At DMS metro station, which is one of the few hubs with crossovers for trains to shift tracks during emergencies, work is on to build the entry point on the side leading to Thousand Lights from Saidapet and link it with the existing pedestrian subway. The subway is otherwise under the control of the highways department.
 
 Built with high walls to protect from floods and having a curved structure, the Saidapet metro station is ready for opening. The pedestrian subway, which was closed for a long time during the construction of the station, has been linked on the side leading to the Little Mount elevated station.
 
 Pedestrians will also be able to use metro stations at Nandanam and Teynampet as a subway to cross the road. They can simply walk down the station and get out on the other side by using the non-paid area in the ticketing level.
 
 With the metro stations in Anna Salai getting ready for opening, the highways department is renovating three subways near Anna Flyover, Thousand Lights and Guindy. These subways will have portals similar to the metro stations.
 
 
