NAGPUR: The   zoo wall on  , constructed at a cost of Rs 27 crore, has become an eyesore for the National Highways Authority India ( ), which plans to widen the road to four-lane.

 The NHAI has proposed to convert the 100-km stretch between Nagpur-Warud into a four-lane. However, as NHAI has no right of way (ROW) in the 4.8-km stretch between Katol Road toll naka and Fetri, it complained that the wall is not straight and hence is vulnerable to mishaps.
 
 The issue was raised by Union highways minister Nitin   himself in a meeting with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis last month, based on which forest ministry issued letter to Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) mentioning Gadkari’s concerns.
 
 However, senior FDCM officials said the 9-metre road is a highway but that is also not sure whether it belongs to NHAI. The ROW on both sides of the road is a reserve forest land and for   a proposal will have to be moved under the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for diversion of land which comes to over 10 hectares.
 
 “There is hardly any scope to expand the road by taking additional forest land as work of chief minister’s zoo project is in progress and compound wall is in place on forest land only,” FDCM officials said.
 
 On the ownership of said road, NHAI officials say a joint survey will be done and the land record department will tell to whom the road belongs. “We don’t want to create a dispute with FDCM but plan to widen the road within existing ROW,” they said.
 
 However, nature-lover   demanded that NHAI should construct flyover in the entire 4.8km stretch to avoid conflict with wildlife and forest.
 
 Environmental activist Shrikant Deshpande said NHAI’s move to widen the road close to the compound wall will prove to be dangerous for tourists where there are entry gates to the forest area on both sides of the road.
 
 In another development, Gadkari is also said to have complained to Fadnavis about forest department not expediting proposals to divert forest land under the   for four-laning going on in the state.
 
 At some places, the duration to clear such proposals is even more than a year. Based on the complaint, the forest ministry, in a letter to all chief conservators of forests (CCFs), has asked to review the proposal and if any delay is found, they have been asked to take action against the staff.
 
 
