JAIPUR : Twelve   illegally transporting sand (bajri) were seized from   and   on Saturday.

 The Muahana police said they had received important information about illegal transportation of sand, following which nine trucks were seized while there drivers detained. “They were carrying sand from Tonk and headed to Jaipur. There papers are being checked,” an official of Muhana police said.
 
 In another incident the Chaksu police also seized three trucks illegally transporting banned sand (Bajri) from Tonk. Three persons were also arrested during the raid.
 
 Chaksu SHO, Rajesh Vidhyarathi told TOI that a specific input was received about the movement of trucks in the city, following which, the teams at a toll was alerted.
 
 “The initial investigation indicates that the trucks were coming from Tonk district and headed to Jaipur city. We intercepted the vehicles and searched them, following which they were booked under relevant sections,” Vidhyarathi said.
 
 The city police officials said that most of the illegal transporting is happening from Tonk area. “There are nearby districts which have become hotbed of illegal sand mining. The mining mafia is benefiting from it too, they load the trucks in the nigh and head straight for the city,” the official said.
 
 According to one estimate, the state has suffered an approximate revenue loss of over Rs 150 crore in the last few months, according to mining department sources. The mafia excavates sand from the river bed in Tonk and Sawai Madhopur districts and transports 800 to 1,000 trucks daily in violation of the apex court order.
 
 As sand commands an exorbitant price in the grey market, these trucks are overloaded beyond capacity. The incidents of violence have been reported across Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, and Dholpur where locals staged protest against the mining Mafia which continues to transport sand during night time. The illegal transportation continues even as the police and mining department have been promising strict monitoring on suspected vehicles.
 
 
