PATNA: The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), a student wing of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), might have suffered big reverses in the last students’ union elections held in Delhi, Allahabad, Jawaharlal Nehru, Kashi Vidyapeeth and Banaras Hindu Universities, but it made a surprising comeback in Patna University by virtually sweeping the PU Students’ Union polls held on Saturday. Almost all the five key posts of the union, except that of joint secretary, were captured by   in the election. The results were announced in the wee hours of Sunday. 

 The impressive victory of ABVP is perhaps an indication of the students’ continued enchantment with the Narendra Modi magic. Surprisingly, however, the student wing of JD(U), a major partner of the ruling NDA government in Bihar, failed to make even its presence felt though it had contested the election separately for all posts. 
 
 Independent candidate Divyanshu Bharadwaj, a PG student of political science, who was earlier with the ABVP, was declared elected PUSU president, defeating Gautam Kumar, the Chhatra Jan Adhikar Party candidate, by a margin of 112 votes. While Divyanshu got 1862 votes, Gautam secured 1750 votes. There were altogether 16 contestants for the post. 
 
 ABVP’s Yoshita Patwardhan of Magadh Mahila College was elected vice-president defeating her nearest rival Anushka Arya of All India Students’ Association-All India Students’ Federation alliance by a record margin of 853 votes. While Yoshita got 1768 votes, Anushka could get only 915 votes. There were 14 candidates in the fray for the post.
 
 Again, ABVP’s Sudhanshu Kumar Jha, a student of Patna Science College, was elected general secretary defeating his nearest rival Manish Yadav (independent) by a margin of 180 votes. While Sudhanshu secured 1647 votes, Manish got only 1467 votes. There were 12 contestants in the field.
 
 Chhatra Jan Adhikar Party’s Azad Chand, a student of Patna College, was declared elected joint secretary defeating his nearest rival Rajiv Ranjan of ABVP by a margin of 150 votes. Azad got 1545 votes, while Rajiv secured 1395 votes. There were only 10 contestants for the post.
 
 Nitish Patel of ABVP and a student of Patna College was elected treasurer defeating his nearest rival Danish of AISA-AISF alliance by a margin of 213 votes. While Nitish bagged 1206 votes, Danish got 993 votes only.
 
 Those elected to the PUSU executive council from different constituencies are Mansi Sinha, Madiha Jawed, Sapna Kumari and Pragati Prakash (Patna Women’s College), Anjali Kumari, Bhamya Bharti and Anuradha (Magadh Mahila College), Piyush Kumar Gulshan and Madhusudan Prasad Mukul (B N College), Mandeep Kumar and Ashish Pushkar (Patna Science College), Satya Prakash and Ankit Kumar (Patna College), Firdausi Bakhsh (College of Arts and Crafts), Anupriya (Women’s Training College), Raj Himanshu Arya (Patna Training College), Mohit Prakash (Vanijya Mahavidyalaya), Suman Saurabh (Patna Law College), Shrawan Kumar (faculty of science), Vivek Kumar and Kumar Satyam (faculty of social science), Abhishek Raj (faculty of humanities) and Arvind Kumar Chaudhary (faculties of commerce, education and law). 
 
 
