CHANDIGARH: The Punjab vigilance bureau on Tuesday arrested   additional deputy commissioner (ADC)   for allegedly misappropriating Rs 8 crore from the money given to a village panchayat in Mohali after acquiring its land for the international airport. 

 With Sarao, officials have also arrested development and panchayat officer (DDPO)   and panchayat secretary Ravinder Singh. They have been accused of misappropriating the money while buying agricultural and commercial land in Mohali's Jheurheri panchayat in 2008-09. 
 
 Sarao is one of the seniormost Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officials to be arrested in a corruption case. The accused trio was produced before the Mohali duty magistrate on Tuesday evening and sent to two days' vigilance remand. Vigilance bureau chief director B K Uppal said 36 acres of Jheurheri panchayat's shamlat deh land (village common land) was acquired for the airport project. 
 
 The government had released Rs 54.17 crore compensation to the panchayat. The money was given to the rural development and panchayats director instead of the panchayat.
 
 Vigilance bureau chief director B K Uppal added that after getting the money, Jheurheri sarpanch Gurpal Singh in alleged connivance with the three officers, bought more than 25 acres of agricultural land in Karimpura and Kandipura villages in Fatehgarh Sahib for an inflated price of Rs 13.62 crore.
 
 The land was purchased at Rs 54 lakh per acre against the prevailing collector’s rate of Rs 9.77 lakh. The three officials have been accused of pocketing the balance amount. Even the market rate of the Fatehgarh Sahib land was between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 17 lakh per acre. Sarao was then Mohali DDPO.
 
 Vigilance bureau officials said corruption has also been detected in the purchase of 6,700 square yards commercial land in Sanauli village of Mohali by the three officers for Rs 10.11 crore. In this case, the accused committed a fraud of about Rs 1.50 crore by mentioning higher rates than the amount paid to the land owner.
 
 
