BENGALURU: The   has upheld an   from an Indian Institute of Management Bangalore (IIMB)   over his failure to clear a  , stating courts can’t be a substitute for expert opinion in academic matters.

 Dismissing a writ appeal filed by Amit Gupta challenging the IIMB’s decision to remove him from the Corporate Strategy Policy fellowship programme, a division bench of Justices H G Ramesh and P S Dinesh Kumar noted that IIMB is a premier management institute and the appellate committee has examined the procedure followed and evaluated the appellant’s performance.
 
 It is a settled law that courts do not substitute opinion of experts in such academic matters, the judges said, adding: “We see no error in the single bench order.”
 
 Amit, a resident of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, had enrolled himself for the fellowship programme with IIMB in 2013. He was eligible to write the examination after completing his two-year course.
 
 As per the course requirement, Amit submitted a research paper in business history. A viva voce examination was scheduled for September 11, 2015, but he was orally told he had to re-appear for viva voce and present a new research paper as the one presented by him wasn’t well-written and he hadn’t explained the unit of analysis to the committee members. 
 
 Accordingly, Amit presented his second research paper and appeared for viva voce on November 12, 2015 before the same committee. Amit was later asked to leave the fellowship programme as he had failed in the second viva voce exam too. He unsuccessfully challenged the committee’s action before the appellate committee and thereafter filed a petition before the Karnataka high court.
 
 On November 21, 2016, a single bench dismissed Amit’s petition, saying courts neither possess the requisite expertise nor expert knowledge which the appellate committee members have. “Courts cannot sit in armchair judgment over experts’ assessment of the suitability of a candidate,” the bench had observed while dismissing the petition.
 
 
