GUNTUR: Inspired by teacher-turned minister  , senior officials of the municipal administration department are now going door-to-door looking for students abstaining from school. The mission is to ensure all the   students attend schools for next 30 days without a break and clear the annual examination. 

 Bringing back students who bunk schools regularly is no easy job. The most pressing of the multitude of reasons is the financial troubles of the parents. Taking a cue from minister Narayana, senior officials and municipal commissioners are counselling parents to send their wards to schools just for another 30 days, which could help them earn better in future. “30 days in school-100% result” is the new slogan of the municipal administration department. 
 
 In fact, minister Narayana set the department officials a target of achieving 100% pass rate from municipal schools right at the beginning of the academic year. He made municipal administration director K Kanna Babu a special officer to oversee the schools’ performance so that all municipal school students clear the annual examinations.
 
 Narayana, a schoolteacher by profession, has decided to track the situation himself, as only a month is left before the annual board examinations. He visited the homes of at least five students in Nellore town, and convinced them to return to school till the completion of annual examinations. 
 
 Jubilant over the visit by the minister, their parents agreed to send them to school, so that they clear the examinations. “We have noticed that about 3% students are nor regularly attending the schools, mostly over petty reasons. We decided to talk to them and their parents, and telling them the importance of attending school an earning an SSC certificate. It will help them shape their career in future,” Narayana told TOI.
 
 He said that students themselves will not sit idle once they clear high school and join the higher classes. “SSC is a crucial link to pursue higher studies. We do not want a single student to leave the school in distress,” he said. “We’re confident of getting all the   back into the academic stream.” 
 
 Interestingly, the fortunes of municipal schools were completely changed after Narayana took over the reins of the municipal administration ministry four years ago. The success rate of municipal schools jumped from 53% in 2013 to 87% in 2017 annual examinations, chiefly due to the reforms introduced by Narayana. The admissions rate in primary level jumped by 10% and 7.5% at high school level during the last academic year.
 
 In fact,   as minister is to ensure the construction of a world class capital city, Amaravati.
 
 
