’Tis the season for list-making, especially if you’re a sports journalist. Here, then, for your perusal, contemplation and probably irritation, is TOI Sport's Test team of the year.  This was the left-hand opener’s most prolific year ever, and how important it proved for a South African team looking for stability at the top and to move up the rankings. Elgar’s year began with a hugely influential 129 against Sri Lanka that countered a Cape Town green top that almost backfired on South Africa and set up a 282-run win. Runs followed in New Zealand and England and at home against Bangladesh, where he was Man of the Series after scores of 119, 18 and 113. All year, Elgar was reliable, durable and a helpful senior partner to young opener Aidan Markram, which could prove his most key contribution yet.  
	
	
	 







  The third most successful opener this year. Began by smashing a century off 78 balls against Pakistan in the New Year’s Test in Sydney, just the fifth batsman to hit a century before lunch on day one. Struggled in India, with a best of 56, but then produced two excellent hundreds in Bangladesh; one to keep Australia afloat in a defeat and the second to help them level the series. In his own words, the 112 in Mirpur, in defeat, was Warner’s best Test century. Was strong against England at home and played a role in getting back the Ashes, with 385 runs in four Tests before the year closed.  
	
	
	 







  The second-highest run-scorer in Test cricket this year. The joint third-fastest Indian batsman to 4,000 Tests runs. Man of the Match against Australia in Ranchi for his 202, the longest innings by an Indian batsman in terms of balls faced (525), as India averted defeat. Consecutive hundreds in Sri Lanka as India won 3-0. Then 143 as India beat Sri Lanka in Nagpur. Consistency personified, with an appetite for big hundreds.  
	
	
	 







 This has to be said: Kohli averaged 9.20 in three Tests against Australia this year, which means he scored 771 of his 1059 runs against Sri Lanka, and 242 in one Test with Bangladesh. But he was irresistible when in flow, and three double-centuries in a year further underscored what Kohli does for an impressive Indian team that maintained its hold on the No 1 spot. His second-innings 104 at Eden Gardens turned the Test around in a flash and propelled India to a position from where they almost won. The doubles that followed in Nagpur and Delhi were soaked in such confidence that it was Kohli on one side, his team-mates on the other.  
	
	
	 







 The game’s best batsman did what has been doing for the past three years: scoring by the truckload, once again finishing a calendar year with over 1000 runs. Was on a different level in India (499 runs, with three centuries) and at home against England (604 runs and counting) and each of his hundreds bordered on the sublime. After driving Australia to victory in Brisbane with 141* and Perth with 239, Smith denied England victory with an unbeaten 102* at the MCG. The short two-Test tour of Bangladesh was an aberration against such gorging, but it did include a crucial 58 in the second Test to help end the series 1-1.  
	
	
	 







  His critics - and there are many - will point to Shakib opting out of Bangladesh’s tour of South Africa, but focusing purely on the matches he did play, the top-ranked Test allrounder had a bumper year. In January, he eclipsed Bangladesh’s previous highest individual score, hitting 217 in New Zealand. Then he left an imprint on the team’s first victory over Sri Lanka with the sole century of what was Bangladesh’s 100th Test. Nothing could top, however, his counter-attacking 84 and 10/153 in a historic defeat of Australia.  
	
	
	 







  Before he missed the Ashes on account of a drunken bar drawl, Stokes kept up his reputation as the most exciting allrounder. Put England ahead 2-1 in the third Test against South Africa with a crackling 112, which included three successive sixes to get to his hundred. In the next Test, a crucial 58 in the first innings. Scored 100 and 58 in a loss to West Indies, and in the deciding Test ripped through the visitors with 6/22 in 14.3 overs on day one at Lord’s to put England on course for victory. 
	
	
	 







  The most successful wicketkeeper of the year, and a handy batsman to have at No 8. Safe behind the stumps, taking the most catches of all glovemen. Scored his runs at a strike-rate of 73.25. Struggled in England, where he managed two fifties in eight innings, but was influential in beating Sri Lanka and New Zealand with innings of 101, 91 and 90.  
	
	
	 







  The most successful fast bowler of 2017. Began the year by blowing away Sri Lanka in a 282-run shellacking at Cape Town, struggled in New Zealand, but 16 wickets in three Tests in England - he would have had more if he hadn’t been suspended for one game - and a tenth ten-wicket haul against Bangladesh saw him become one of the youngest bowlers to take 100 wickets. Rabada ended 2017 at a career-high No 3 on the ICC Test bowlers table.  
	
	
	 







  The highest wicket-taker of the year, with an imprint on each series he played in. In India, Lyon helped Australia stun the hosts in the series opener, and then claimed a record 8/50 on day one of the second Test. In Bangladesh, he took nine wickets in a surprise defeat in the first Test and then 13 to lead Australia’s revival on the decider. Six of those came in a marathon second-innings spell as he recorded the second-best match figures by an Australian spinner. Then came a starring role to help regain the Ashes - 17 wickets in four Tests, sending Australia into 2018 on a high.  
	
	
	 







  The lowest average and economy of all bowlers in 2017. Touched No 1 in the ICC rankings. Became the third fast bowler to get to 500 Test wickets. Remarkable, given than Anderson is 35 and has played 133 Test matches. Four five-wicket hauls, including a career-best 7/42 to steamroll West Indies at Lord’s, plus four and three as South Africa were smashed at Old Trafford. Should have been part of a famous victory in Adelaide after taking 5/43. Shows no sign of fading.  
	
	
	 







 India’s second-highest wicket-taker in 2017. Better average, strike-rate and economy than R Ashwin, in one Test fewer. Twice Man of the Match for roles in series-clinching wins over Australia in Dharamsala and Sri Lanka in Colombo. Man of the Series for 25 wickets as India beat Australia 2-1 and regained the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. Became No 1 bowler and allrounder in Tests. Second fastest to 150 Tests and the fastest left-arm spinner. 
	
	
	
	 







