Chandigarh:   was doing bhangra in the ground with his teammates and simultaneously his father, Darshan Singh and mother, Baljit Kaur were doing the bhangra in their living room in Kharar, Mohali after India’s emphatic 8-wicket victory over the Aussies in the U-19 Cricket  . Though, Arshdeep featured in just two games in the tournament but his parents were overjoyed.

 Darshan, a former Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) employee credits the success of the team to Rahul Dravid, the coach of India U-19 cricket team.
 
 “The day Arshdeep donned the Indian jersey in the U-19 World Cup was a huge breakthrough. Rahul sir has left a tremendous impact on him (Arshdeep). I completely agree with Rahul’s post-match comments that this memory should not be cherished as greater opportunities lie in future,” said Darshan Singh.
 
 Kharar is a small town 13 kilometers from Chandigarh. Arshdeep commuted via cycle carrying his kit bag to his academy in Guru Nanak Public School, Sector 36 partly to save costs but primarily because he believed that it would strengthen the legs and back.
 
 “The bus timings were not suitable and travelling was tiring as he would not get a seat in the evening. Thus, Arshdeep’s then coach Jaswant Rai gave him the idea to cycle which he readily adopted,” said Darshan Singh.
 
 Jaswant Rai, who played 70 first class matches for Himachal Pradesh, was elated at Arshdeep’s development.
 
 “He was nowhere in the national scenario six months ago. But as fate had it, he was eventually called up as a replacement when left-arm spinner Anukul Roy missed out from the India Under-19 team for the Asia Cup due to an injury. I think he left a good impression on Rahul Dravid during his dubut in the tournament (Asia Cup),” said Rai.
 
 Arshdeep has been training under Rai for the past four years. Even the coach who refined Arshdeep’s bowling feels that he has completely revamped his action in the last two years.
 
 “There were several loopholes in his action, like wrist position, follow through and it took a year to change his bowling style. He has become more accurate, which endangers the batsmen who often fall prey to toe-crushing Yorkers and sharp bouncers. I am confident that he will clock above 140 kmph within a year,” added Rai.
 
 Arshdeep did not make the cut for   senior side for the upcoming Vijay Hazare Trophy unlike his teammates Shubman Gill and Abhishek Sharma. Instead, he will be playing for the Punjab U-23 team. Coach and father believe that it is a positive move for the lanky youngster. “Gill and Sharma have cemented the fact that they are established cricketers but Arshdeep didn’t get the exposure to test his mettle. I think it is a good move by Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) as he will only get better,” stated Rai.
 
 
