PATNA: At least 1500 security personnel, 20 doctors and 50 firefighters have been deployed for the security of 98 delegates attending the four-day Commonwealth   ( ) conference of India region in the state capital from Friday.

 An armed company of BMP-14 and a platoon of BMP-1 have been deployed at different locations in the city.
 
 That apart, more than 400 unarmed personnel have also been deployed at several hotels and other vital locations, including the Patna airport, Ashoka Convention Kendra and   where several programmes related to the conference are scheduled to take place.
 
 Sources said that SWAT (Special Weapons and Tactics) teams of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the state police would also remain on standby to handle any emergency situation.
 
 Police sources said each of the 98 dignitaries has been provided with a liason officer and personal security officer, who would stay with them during the conference. Two dignitaries from CPA secretariat at London, one each from Africa, Australia and Pacific region, apart from members of state assembly and councils from different states across India, are participating in the meet.
 
 “Bomb detection and disposal squad (BBDS) and dog squad will remain on their toes around the three hotels where the dignitaries are staying,” sources said.
 
 Patna civil surgeon Pramod Jha said five ambulances, including two near the Gyan Bhawan, have been deployed for any medical emergency. “Nine teams of two doctors and a pharmacist each have been deputed at the three hotels in eight hours shift,” Jha said, adding a specialized ambulance for Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC) would be near Hotel Maurya.
 
 “At Gyan Bhawan, a two-bed make shift hospital has been created with doctors and paramedical staff. In addition, two ICU beds each at IGIC, IGIMS and at a private hospital on Bailey Road have been kept reserved. Ten cottages at   (PMCH) have also been kept reserved for emergency,” Jha added.
 
 Meanwhile, Lodipur fire station officer   said nine big firetenders are deployed across several vital locations for the conference. “At least 50 firefighters will remain on standby during the conference,” he said. Prasad also said portable firefighters would be installed at several locations by Saturday morning.
 
 
