MUMBAI: The   members are all set to raise ‘serious concerns’ over the manner in which the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators ( ) has ‘denigrated’ India’s stand at the International Cricket Council ( ) over the last one year and taken decisions at the National Cricket Academy (NCA) without ‘adequate considerations’.

 
 
 
 These concerns form a part of a detailed agenda that has been put together as the BCCI gears up for a Special General Meeting ( ) in New Delhi on June 22.
 
 A day after more than a dozen members of the cricket board came together and demanded for the SGM to be scheduled, CoA too did not waste time in sending out a statement saying the notice for the said SGM is in violation to their directives issued in March this year. On March 16 this year, the CoA had released a 12-point directive for members of the BCCI, one of which categorically read: “No meeting of the general body will be allowed without approval of the COA”.
 
 
 
 
 
 BCCI members, nevertheless, are in no mood to follow the CoA’s directives. Their view on the matter is based on the logic that the SC-appointed CoA’s remit is only to supervise the day-to-day administration of the BCCI and ensure that the recommendations of the Lodha Committee are adopted.
 
 The notice for the SGM has been sent out by acting secretary  . “Now, since the SC itself is studying those recommendations, the CoA has no remit.
 
 “That’s the basic thing. Further, their day-to-day supervision is what has gone on to hurt the BCCI more than anything else. The SC has not said anywhere that the members can’t meet. CoA’s note is in direct violation of whatever the SC is saying,” say members.
 
 The members of the board are convinced that the CoA has spared no effort in damaging India’s stand from a global cricketing perspective and have tried to get themselves involved in matters where they neither have the proper understanding nor the remit. “They’ve caused India loss of revenue and reputation,” say board members.
 
 
