LUDHIANA: Two children died and their mother and two elder brothers were hospitalized after they ate khichdi, which allegedly had a poisonous substance, at their house in Sunet.

 The deceased, Abhay Kumar, 2, and his brother Aryan Kumar, 4, were sons of Arun Shah, a fast food vendor who belongs to   in  . The hospitalized include Tinku, 30, and her two sons, Rahul Kumar, 11, and  , 7.
 
 Police officials said on Friday evening, the family cooked khichdi and all the members had it. Later, they had diarrhoea and vomiting all through the night. In the morning, their relatives living in the neighbourhood rushed them to a private hospital in the area.
 
 After the two-year-old died and the condition of others worsened, the doctors referred them to another hospital on Saturday morning. In the evening, Aryan succumbed during treatment. Arun Shah didn’t face much problem and was discharged on Saturday. His wife and two sons were still undergoing treatment, cops added.
 
 Officiating SHO assistant sub-inspector Lakhwinder Singh said, “The condition of the woman and her two sons is stated to be stable. We got post-mortem examination of Aryan conducted at civil hospital, but that of the two-year-old couldn’t be got done as the family had already cremated him. The health department has collected food samples. Their test report is awaited.”
 
 Daulat, Arun’s sister who lived in the same area, said she came to know about the incident on Saturday morning. “My brother didn’t face much problem as he had little food,” she added.
 
 Rajinder Kumar, Shah’s brother, said, “Tinku had cooked khichdi. The family had it with curd they bought from a shop in the area.” 
 
 The ASI said, “We learned about the incident on Sunday morning after the hospital apprised us of Aryan’s death. We went to their house, but didn’t find anything suspicious there. The family had washed utensils after dinner. The post-mortem report will make things clear.”
 
  Sources said, “The two-year-old had died at home. It seems the food was poisoned.”
 
 The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC as the family doesn’t suspect any foul play.
 
 An area resident said the family lived peacefully, ruling out any domestic discord.
 
 Police officials said Arun Shah had been running the fast food vend in BRS Nagar for a long time. His sons studied in a local school and wife was a homemaker.
 
 
