HYDERABAD:   gave a thumbs down to the   government's last budget for failing to match up to the expectations of employers and employees alike. It felt the thrust on healthcare, education and agriculture may prove beneficial in medium-term provided the government walks the talk.

 Telangana's apex trade and industry body  's president Gowra Srinivas felt it failed to provide any substantial incentive or impetus for trade, industry or the salaried class. Adding insult to injury was the FM completely ignoring   and AP that have been waiting for funds under the special package promised to them during bifurcation.
 
 He felt the announcement on revisiting the norms for sanctioning MUDRA loans may pave the way for increased business activities for small players that have begun recovering from the after-effects of DeMon and GST. FICCI's Telangana State Council chairman Devendra Surana, said: "It was very disappointing that instead of coming down, tax rates have gone up for corporates thanks to the 1% hike in cess, especially at a time when the US has reduced tax rates from 25% to 21%."
 
  
  
 
 While a section of industry was disappointed, some felt the focus on education, health and agriculture would strengthen the country's fundamentals in the coming days. "The impetus to agri and education sectors and access to healthcare for all may support the country in reaching development goals. As more than 50% of the population still depends on agriculture for livelihood, any increase in farmers' income would lead to overall economy's growth," said CII Telangana chairman V Rajanna. City-based IT player  's chairman Niranjan Chintam felt the reduction in corporate tax to 25% for companies with a turnover of up to Rs 250 crore will empower mid-sized companies like them make large investments in hiring and innovations especially given the thrust on AI, ML and IoT. And though most pharma players in the city hailed the emphasis on healthcare, they rued the lack of specific benefits for the sector. Satish Reddy, chairman, Dr Reddy's  , said: "The announcement of the Aayushman Bharat program for healthcare is a game changer and the coverage of 10 crore people under the National Health Protection Scheme is commendable. This will give an impetus to healthcare benefits for people in the most deserving sections of society. Overall, while the budget appears to be a progressive one, it was disappointing to note that the reduction in corporate tax was offered only to companies with a turnover under of Rs 250 crore." Laurus Labs CFO & ED, VV Ravi Kumar, too opined that though a long-term oriented one, the budget had nothing much for pharma, except the announcement of universal health insurance scheme that may bring some benefits. "What is disappointing is that the government did not follow through on its promise of reducing corporate tax to 25% and instead restricted it to only the MSME sector." 
 
 
