NEW DELHI: Terming the high court’s decision setting aside the disqualification of 20   MLAs a “victory of truth”, chief minister   on Friday lashed out at BJP and said that the attempt by the party to break the AAP legislative group has once again failed.

 “The high court has given justice to the people of Delhi. It is a victory for the people of Delhi. Congratulations to the people of Delhi,” Kejriwal tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “The   judgment has exposed the means and intentions of  , BJP and their front actors. They have been trying to break the AAP legislative group since its inception. This is just another failed attempt.”
 
 The HC’s order is not only a morale booster for Kejriwal but also a shot in the arm for AAP, which has performed poorly in several elections in the last one year. The party now aims to improve its performance in the 2019 General Election.
 
 
  
 
 A few hours after their reinstatement, most of the MLAs met Kejriwal at his residence. In the 45-minute meeting, they discussed with Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia the struggle they had to face after being disqualified. They pointed out that this also hampered development work in their constituencies. The CM then asked them to expedite pending works.
 
 Underlining that the fight is long, Kejriwal told the MLAs that they should be ready for such challenges in future. “The CM asked us to work hard to improve the distribution of water in our areas,” said an MLA.
 
 “More than the disqualification of the MLAs, it was a question of justice,” said Sisodia, claiming that the disqualification was in violation of the principles of natural justice.
 
 After the MLAs were disqualified in January, AAP had termed it an extension of the “political vendetta” against the party. The party had claimed that Election Commission had “touched the lowest point in its history” because it did not “give the legislators a chance to present their case” before recommending disqualification.
 
 Kejriwal had said, “Many obstacles come your way when you walk on the path of truth and honesty. However, visible and invisible powers of the universe come out to help you and in the end truth prevails.” Fearing that the disqualification might undermine the unity of the party members, he had urged his supporters to remain united and not quit the path of truth.
 
 “Governments will come and go, but it will take decades for institutions like EC to regain lost credibility,” said AAP Delhi chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.
 
 
