DEHRADUN: In a reflection of what grit and determination can achieve, girls from impoverished families studying in government schools beat elite football academies and other privileged school students in a tournament that concluded in Dehradun recently.

 
 The group of 35 girls, whose parents work as daily helps, drivers and gardeners, study in two government schools in Palam Vihar, Gurgaon.
 
 Former Army officer Lt Col (retd) PK Chowdhuri formed the group known as   and have been coaching the girls since 2016. The group took part in the Under-14 and Under-17 categories in the recently held football tourney organized at Ecole Global Girls School in the city and emerged as winners in both the categories. The U-14 girls won against upscale schools such as Hopetown School, Dehradun, Modern School, Delhi and Gems School from Dubai while the U-17 Choma Eagles emerged victorious against First Touch Bangalore, Khel Khel Mein Delhi, and  .
 
 Chowdhuri along with his wife also sponsored for the girls for the tourney. He said, “I started teaching these girls after retirement since I wanted to do something in my spare time but now it has become a passion as these kids are extremely talented.”
 
 Anita Srivas, an U-17 player, whose mother works as a domestic help, said, “I love playing football as it gives me great joy. I have been playing at left forward and want to become a professional footballer someday and be like   who is my favourite player.” Srivas was also awarded the ‘emerging player’ trophy during the tournament.
 
 Ravina, 13, whose father is a cook and mother a domestic help, added, “I also play left forward and my parents are very proud of me. They tell me to focus on my studies also as I stood first in the class in the final exams.”
 
 The tournament was held under two categories - schools and NGOs/academies for U-17 girls in which Choma Eagles participated in the second category while second age group of U-14 girls was played as a combined tournament for schools and NGOs.
 
 In the past one year the girls have become the U–17 champs from Gurugram district. Previously, they were the runners up in U-17 Diana Jones Football League 2017 held in Delhi.
 
 Chowdhari said: “We practice thrice a week and few close friends of mine also pitches in financially but we are not a NGO or trust so we do not take any donations from anyone. The best part is that because of their skills, another retired army officer who is running a public school in Delhi is going to give admission to all 35 girls in his school as well as bear the cost of their uniforms etc.”
 
 Excited about winning the trophy,  , who plays in defence, said, “I love football. My mother will be very happy when she will see the trophy.”
 
