RAHON (NAWANSHAHR): The oldest school of Punjab on this side of the Radcliff Line was established by the British in 1855, within six years of annexation of Punjab in 1849. They established it in a fort which once marked the border of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s Lahore Durbar. It is said that Rahon was earlier a part of   headed by  . Later,   included the misl in his empire.

 Perched on the highest point in town, the foundation of the school was laid several centuries ago. There’s even a legend which says Lord Rama’s great grandfather Raghu founded it.
 
 
 The school has done rather well, as evident from its illustrious alumni, including Bollywood director and producer brothers B R Chopra and Prem Chopra, actor Prem Chopra, music director Khayyam and Air Chief Marshal  , among others.
 
 But where the building is concerned, there is nothing to show for the proud past. Much of the fort has been destroyed and the school housed inside is past its glory days.
 
 Ironically, the first school of Punjab does not have a Punjabi language teacher.
 
 The staff strength is just half the sanctioned strength of 42, including non-teaching staff. Of the 21 employees who work here, only around a dozen are teachers. Under the circumstances, the commerce stream classes XI and XII had to be discontinued as the last subject teacher retired in 2010. The vocational teacher also retired in the same year.
 
 “This was started as a middle school in 1855. In 1921, it was upgraded to matric level and in 1991 it was upgraded to senior secondary level,” said school principal Beant Singh, pointing towards an old stone tablet which mentions both dates and has now been fixed at the gate. He himself studied here. After clearing Class X in 1975, he taught here for most of his teaching career.
 
 “We found this stone tablet dumped among debris inside and got it fixed on the gate a few years back. It is said that when the mutiny of 1857 took place, a British school inspector was here in the school where he received the information, after which he left immediately,” said the principal, a post-graduate in political science and history.
 
 He said there was a big bell on a stage in the school which could be heard quite far away but it was removed. “Now, more changes have taken place with the addition of new buildings. It was different when we were students as the school ran in the heritage building. ” said Suresh Kumar, a local resident who cleared Class X here in 1961 and taught in the school till 2004.
 
 “Those who teach here and those who study here are proud of their association with the oldest school of east Punjab, which produced several prominent personalities,” said  , a Class XII student.
 
 “Old students from Pakistan have also visited this school. Around 10 years ago, four men from Pakistan came to see their alma mater and got very nostalgic,” the school principal said.
 
 While part of the boundary wall of the fort, built with Nanakshahi bricks, still forms the boundary of the school on one side, the only surviving watch tower nearby has been converted into a shrine.
 
 But the main building of the school, which appears as old as the fort, still stands in the centre of the school.
 
