BHOPAL: Four incidents of   were reported in the last 24 hours. 

 A 14-year-old student of Class 8, was allegedly molested by her classmate, while she was waiting to board a school van after writing her exams on Monday. She reported the matter at Sukhi Sewania police station on Tuesday, after which a case was registered against the minor accused under relevant sections of the IPC and  . No arrest has been made in the case so far.
 
 The girl told police she was waiting near the school gate to board the van, when the accused, who is her classmate reached the spot and grabbed her hand. He handed her a note on which his mobile number was written. She resisted and complained to the school administration. By the time the staff reached the spot, the accused fled from the spot. She returned home and narrated the incident to her father after which they approached the Sukhi Sewania police on Tuesday.
 
 In another incident, a 34-year-old woman and a resident of Swadesh Nagar filed a complaint at   police station on Monday against two partners of a firm involved in property dealing. 
 
 The woman alleged that the accused had been harassing her by sending obscene and threat messages on WhatsApp after she left a job in their office and they were pressurising her to get involved in illegal activities.
 
 She told police that was working at the office of the accused - Jalil Khan, (38) and Mehraj Khan, (36), both residents of Piplani since January 17. The work atmosphere was not good and she left the job on March 9, after which the accused started sending her obscene messages on her phone. Cops have arrested both the accused.
 
 In another incident reported at Gunga police station on Tuesday, accused Shobharam Dangi, (35), a resident of Barri Khejda village in Gunga, barged into the house of a 30-year-old woman, a resident of the same village on Monday night, while she was alone in house. Dangi grabbed the woman. When she resisted and raised an alarm, the accused fled. She narrated the incident to her husband when he returned from work and reported the matter to police on Tuesday morning.
 
 Meanwhile, an 18-year-old girl, a resident of Sanjay Nagar in Karond filed complaint against Sabir Ali, a resident of same locality. She stated that on Monday morning when she was cleaning her house, Ali came on his bike and molested her. 
 
 
