KOTA: The   called by Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajranj Dal and other Hindu organizations, threw normal life out of gear in Kota, Bundi,   and Baran districts of Hadauti region on Friday.

 Right wing Hindu organizations called the bandh to press for demands including permission to perform regular puja at Maandhata Balaji cenotaph on   in Bundi city, removal of Kota range IG Vishal Bansal and Bundi collector Shivandi Swarnkar and to take action against police personnel and officials involved in lathicharge on Hindu organization activists heading to perform puja on the hill top on January 1. The lathicharge had left around 15 people injured.
 
  The bandh remained peaceful as no untoward incident was reported from Hadauti region. 
 
  The emergency and road transport services including medical and health were left out of the bandh and they remained operational. However, the coaching institutes in Kota, where around 1.75 lakh students from across the country take coaching for various medical and engineering entrance exams and rarely take break from classes, remained closed on Friday. 
 
  The markets in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar, Baran and Bundi cities and in most towns remained closed on Friday till 1pm, the time prescribed for opening shops by Hindu organizations.
 
 Little impact of the bandh was seen in Chabda, Hindoli and Lakheri towns of the region as most of the shops here remained open.
 
  People of minority section in   in Jhalrapatan town of Jhalawar district submitted a memorandum to the officials and circle in-charge of the police station after unidentified persons of a group thrashed the women and created ruckus in the area by raising slogans.
 
 “An investigation into the complaint is currently underway and no action in this regard has been taken,” said CI, Jhalrapatan police station, Heera Lal Saini. 
 
  No untoward incident was reported from the region and bandh remained peaceful.
 
 Minor incidents of face-off between activists and police were reported from Chawani, Anantpura, Bhemjangmandi, Vigyannagar areas of Kota city, Mukeri Mohalla in Jhalrapatan town of Jhalawar and from   area of Bundi city.
 
  In Bundi city, some youths of minority section protested against slogan raising and forcible shutting of shops by Hindu activists outside Chogan Gate, where a large number of Hindu activists, violating Section 144 imposed in the district, had assembled in the noon.
 
 Bundi SDM Naresh Malav rushed to the spot and persuaded the youths. Police force was deployed at the spot to check any untoward incident.
 
  IG Vishal Bansal could not be reached for his comments on the bandh.
 
 
