COIMBATORE: Chief minister   is likely to open the city police museum for the public on Thursday at 10.30am. A minimum fare would be charged from the visitors.

 “We have completed all the work and are waiting for the opening. Chief minister is scheduled to attend the flower show at   on May 18. He will come to Coimbatore and is likely to open the museum on May 17 around 10.30 am,” said a police officer.
 
 On display are weapons seized from forest brigand Veerappan, a mini submarine seized from   (LTTE), a tank used for Kargil war against Pakistan and weapons seized from Malayoor Mambattiyan.
 
 The credit for setting up the city police museum goes to the former city police commissioner, A Amalraj, who came up with the idea to convert the 100 year-old   building into museum.
 
 The building was bought by British police officer FA Hamilton for the police in 1918. After 1951, the Harvey block, one of three blocks of the building with 18 rooms, was let out to police officers above the rank of sub-inspectors. Police officials then planned to demolish the building as it was in a poor condition due to lack of maintenance.
 
 However, Amalraj decided to save the building and revamped it completely and converted it into police museum in 2017.
 
 The city police, meanwhile, brought an army tank used in Kargil war against Pakistan and put on display at the museum. The tank was brought from Indian Army camp at Pune.
 
 A mini submarine, which was constructed by the LTTE at Mahabalipuram in 1990 and seized by Q branch in Chennai, was also brought to the museum, which also features two lathe machines used by LTTE for making guns in Coimbatore till 1990.
 
 Another attraction is machines used for printing 100 counterfeit currency notes. The machines were seized from a businessman named Krishnan in 1958.
 
 The museum has also on display an advanced boat used by the coastal security group and a canon made of cast iron. The canon was partially damaged in the famous third Carnatic war, 1760. It was brought from Argot police station in   district.
 
 According to a senior police officer, the museum has also on display bomb suits, model land mining, various types of dummy bombs, British-period cameras used in police department, a sword presented to the police department by the former chief minister MGR. 
 
 
