MUMBAI: In probably the first initiative in the city to provide hot home-made food to the poor and hungry, a Syrian Christian church in   has installed a new refrigerator and a microwave oven on its premises. 

 Since January 1, the 150-odd Malayali families of the   have been rolling extra rotis or packing upma left over from breakfast to deposit in the fridge. The food is packed in foil containers, with the expiry date mentioned on it. And through the day, needy people and transgenders who beg in the locality come and take what they want. A security guard warms the food in the microwave for them. They can choose to eat it there or take it away. 
 
 Parish priest   said, “This venture ‘Bhookha Na Rahe Koi’ was started at the behest of Bishop Rt Rev Geevarghese Mar Theodosius who feels no one in the vicinity of our Mar Thoma churches should go to bed hungry.”  , an active community member, said that on the inaugural day, the women of the parish prepared 120 sandwiches, brought them neatly wrapped to the church and distributed them to 25 people. Such is the buzz in the locality that within the first week, the church has received a request to replicate the effort in a civic hospital. 
 
 Sheela Abraham, lecturer at St Xavier’s Junior College, Bhandup, cooks dishes to suit the locals’ taste, say idli or puran poli, occasionally. “I live some distance away or I would go to there with food every day.” I like the initiative because even if beggars seek money, they have no access to fresh, warm home-made food; they only buy vada pav. This is also a good way of avoiding wastage at home,” said Abraham. 
 
 Mary Varghese, former headmistress of St Xavier’s School, and her daughter   also contribute regularly. “The Bible says Christ fed the poor and asked his disciples to do so. I feel guilty when food is wasted at home, so it is best to divert it to needy people. 
 
 Even on a regular day, it takes no effort to prepare a few extra rotis or sabzi,” Varghese said. Bengaluru pioneered this concept in 2016 when the Rotary Bangalore Brigades installed a ‘Fridge of Kindness’ in restaurants. Since then Jaipur has also adapted the idea.
