PUNE: Another   in the city, this time in a private pool in a housing society in  , has taken the death toll to three in this season, so far.

 Avinash Shiv Sharan, 30, from Vadgaonsheri went with friends to the newly opened private   near Shree Park housing society on Kharadi bypass. He dived into the pool around 1.45pm on Tuesday. 
 
 Sharan and his friends Ajit Nagargoje and Ajay More work as assistants to a lawyer practising at the sub-registrar’s office in Chandannagar. They went to the pool around 1.30pm. 
 
 More told TOI, “Nagargoje and I jumped into the deep end and started swimming. Sharan did not know swimming. He dived into the four ft water around 1.45pm and drowned. A life guard brought him out after a swimmer raised an alarm. The guard tried to revive Sharan but he did not regain consciousness. He was taken to a private hospital in Kharadi but declared brought dead. His body was sent to Sassoon hospital for a postmortem.”
 
 Nagargoje said,“We heard about the new pool that was opened 20 days ago. The sub-registrar’s office had taken a break for lunch and we decided to go for a swim and then have lunch. We visited the pool for the first time and paid Rs 100 each for a session. The life guard took two minutes to bring him out .”
 
 The victim leaves behind his mother and four sisters. 
 
 Airport police’s senior inspector Sanjay Naik-Patil said, “We received a telephone call from Sassoon hospital around 6.30pm. We have registered an accidental death report. We have launched investigations to find out the circumstances leading to Sharan’s death and what safety measures were in place at the pool.” 
 
 Assistant inspector S B Khedkar said, “The victim’s family old police that Sharan may have drowned because he was suffering from convulsions. Investigations revealed that his death is not suspicious.” 
 
 The pool owner’s cellphone was switched off. 
 
 On April 8, a 19-year-old youth had drowned in a PMC -run pool in Taljai and on May 12, a 24-year-old software engineer drowned in the pool of a sports club in Wakad. 
 
 
