NEW DELHI: While cities like Indore and Mumbai are setting new standards in managing solid  , the capital of the country is unable even to transport its garbage without annoying people. Indraprastha Extension resident Rajendra Singh is one of them. Waiting for a bus on the Ghazipur road every morning is a trial for him. 

 
 “The stench from the trucks carrying garbage to the Ghazipur landfill is unbearable. Every few minutes, a truck passes by, completely uncovered and at times so overloaded that the trash is spilling over the sides,” says Singh. “What a mess! Our dhalaos are open, our trucks are   and our landfills are on fire.”
 
 The stinking, open trucks are just a symptom of a collapsing system, declares B S Vohra, who heads the East Delhi RWA Joint Front. The Krishna Nagar resident, disgust writ large on his face, says, “Road 57 in our locality is witness to this obscenity every single day. Cars driving behind these trucks get hit by flying garbage. Even with closed doors and the air conditioner on, our vehicles get filled with a foul smell. Why can’t we move towards a mechanised system as in other countries?”
 
 East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s rules, as in other countries, do mandate proper compaction and secure covering of garbage with tarpaulin sheets before it is moved by trucks to the landfill. The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control) Authority (EPCA) too directed the municipal corporations last November to see that trucks transporting garbage or construction material were covered.
 
 In practice, however, things aren’t so encouraging. TOI spent the whole afternoon at the landfill in Ghazipur to discover that every fourth truck arrived fully uncovered and overloaded and many more were only partially covered. EPCA chief Bhure Lal, who has undertaken field visits to several pollution hotspots in Delhi-NCR, corroborates this, saying he too has noted many trucks violating the regulations.
 
 While the south and north corporations are inching towards a system of fixed and mobile waste compactors to turn loose garbage into pressed cakes, the cash-strapped east body has no such agenda. 
 
 “Our financial state means we can’t even buy new trucks. Compactors and covered trucks don’t figure in our plans,” admits an official. East Delhi generate around 2,700 tonnes of garbage every day, and its removal by the corporation’s 90 open trucks over 450 daily trips actually adds to the sanitation problem of the region.
 
 An   spokesperson insists, “Truck drivers are strictly instructed to cover wet waste with tarpaulin during transportation.” He underlines this denial by saying “only a few careless operators may not be following the norms”. The evidence on the streets, however, is to the contrary.
 
