KOLKATA: A new initiative by Kolkata   police on social media to discipline motorists has sparked a debate on the internet. While the response to the police move - asking netizens to upload photographs and videos of those on the phone while driving - has been overwhelmingly positive, a section is worried over "public shaming". Still others have asked cops to tread with caution.

 On an average, 20-25 videos and photographs are getting uploaded on police's WhatsApp numbers each day. On Tuesday night, the cops uploaded five such photographs on  . They have challaned another 50-odd motorists. The process to temporarily suspend licences of some of them is in progress.
 
 
  
 
 "Some of them blatantly flout rules. These men put lives of all those who are on road at risk. It is time traffic laws were taken seriously," said an IPS officer. "We are now uploading only those photographs where the action has been completed upon verification. It is not at all a case of public shaming. It is an awareness exercise," another IPS official added.
 
 
  
 
 However, not all are convinced - particularly after the CM announcing a Rs 500 reward for those spotting motorists speaking on the phone. In all, 154 comments have been made against the police post and has generated over 385 shares.
 
 Advocate Priyanka Kundu commented on the Facebook page of Kolkata Police, asking them to be cautious even as she appreciated the police action. "I think   should be more careful about posting photos on a social platform. It's clear in this photo that he was talking after parking the bike on the sideway," she wrote.
 
 Another Facebook user,  , was more direct: "He was not driving while he was talking over his cell phone, so why is his photograph uploaded here?"
 
 However, there were an equal number of netizens who lent their voice in support of the initiative.   wrote: "KP please take strict action against those who are using phones while driving," he wrote.
 
 According to  , even this discussion will help create awareness. "We want people to be participating in all our drives to keep the city and its citizens safe," said an IPS officer.
 
 
