NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court will pronounce its verdict on the decades-old dispute, mainly between   and  , over sharing of   water on Friday. The river originates in Karnataka’s Kodagu district and meets the Bay of Bengal at Poompuhar in Tamil Nadu. 

 On September 20 last year, a three-judge bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices Amitava Roy and A M Khanwilkar had reserved its verdict on the cross-petitions filed by Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala. The CJI, who has authored the unanimous verdict for the bench, will pronounce it at 10.30 am on Friday. The water sharing dispute goes back almost a century. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The first agreement was signed in 1924 dividing the shares as 75% for Madras presidency including present day Puducherry, 23% for Mysore and the rest for Kerala. The fight over water continued between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka after the reorganisation of states in 1956. The Union government constituted the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in June 1990. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The CWDT on June 25, 1991 gave its interim award and asked Karnataka to ensure that 205 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) water reached Tamil Nadu. This award saw anti-Tamil riots in Karnataka, mainly in Bengaluru. On February 5, 2007, the tribunal gave its final award allocating 419 tmcft to Tamil Nadu (as against its demand for 512 tmcft); 270 tmcft to Karnataka (against 465 tmcft demand); Kerala 30 tmcft and Puducherry 7 tmcft. 
 
 Karnataka was the first to challenge this award in the SC and was quickly followed by Kerala and Tamil Nadu. There were many flare-ups in the two states over water during pendency of the appeals in the SC, which commenced final hearing on the petitions last year and reserved its verdict on September 20. 
 
 Nearly two years ago, passions ran high after the SC ordered Karnataka to release 15,000 cusecs of Cauvery water daily to Tamil Nadu. Later, it had reduced the release to 12,000 cusecs per day. Protests turned violent despite SC warnings. 
 
 The SC had said on September 15, 2016, “People cannot become law unto themselves and, therefore, it is obligatory on the part of the authorities of both states, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, to prevent such actions. 
 
 We are compelled and constrained to say that it is the duty of the states to see that no agitation, damages or destruction take place... there cannot be any agitation when it relates to an order passed by the court.
