NAGPUR: Two months after the state government began procurement of tur at minimum support price ( ), a large number of farmers are still waiting to get their dues. Farmers say National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation ( , the government procurement agency, is taking at least a month to release the payments.

 The delay is leading farmers to turn to private traders who are buying at Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200 less than the MSP of Rs 5,050 a quintal. Traders too accept that there is a sizeable supply of tur at their end and they are buying at below the MSP.
 
 So far, NAFED has purchased 1.69 lakh metric tonne of tur in Maharashtra. Sources in NAFED admit that the agency was short of funds due to which the payments could not be released in time.
 
 Sanjeev Kumar Chadha, managing director of NAFED, said the agency received Rs 600 crore from the government on Monday, out of which Rs 500 crore have been released. “Farmers are expected to get their money in a day or two,”   told TOI.
 
 With 1.69 lakh metric tonne already purchased, NAFED has set up a target of buying 4.46 lakh MT of tur under the price stabilization scheme. The procurement will continue till April 18. Sources say the current funds would only be enough to make payments for the tur which has already been purchased. If there are plans to buy 4.46 lakh MT of tur in all, more funds would be needed.
 
 NAFED’s allocation for MSP purchases was hiked from Rs 9,000 crore to Rs 19,500 crore in March only. As the enhancement was done by close of the financial year, it took time for the amount to be reflected in NAFED’s accounts. This led to the delay in payment to farmers, said a source.
 
  of   said, “It is taking at least a month to get the payments at NAFED, so many are preferring to sell tur to private traders instead. They pay less, but there is no delay.”
 
 “Even cotton is fetching only a little more than the MSP. Tur rates are below the MSP but there is a long delay at the NAFED centres,” said Rajesh Padalkar of Khorad village, also in Yavatmal district.
 
 Even last year, tur rates had slipped below the MSP which led to government procurement of the pulses. In 2015, the prices had touched a high which led to government’s stress on increasing the output by increasing the acreage. This led to a crash leaving farmers complaining.
 
 
