THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the wake of the alleged manhandling of a patient admitted to   by a nursing attendant, health minister   has called a meeting of nursing staff in the hospital. 

 "A meeting of nurses, nursing assistants and attenders of   would be held at the OP block hall at Medical College on Saturday at 3 pm. 
 
 The extraordinary meeting is being organized in view of the cruel behaviour of a hospital employee towards a patient admitted to the medical college hospital. All those who are not on duty at the time of the meeting are directed to attend the meeting," the minister's office informed here on Friday.
 
 The hospital superintendent has suspended,  , the nursing assistant accused of attacking the patient following a directive from the health minister's office. 
 
 A video was widely circulated on social media in which Sunilkumar was seen firmly holding the arms of a patient and even  . Authorities later identified Sunilkumar from the video. 
 
 According to medical college authorities, the incident happened between March 19 and 23, the exact date of occurrence is yet to be confirmed.
 
 "Such practices cannot be justified on any ground, especially when the government is going ahead with the programmes for turning hospitals more patient-friendly. Majority of the staff in government hospitals render highly commendable service. But, there are some persons who misbehave with patients, skip duties and demand bribe. They bring a bad name to those engaged in committed service," the minister said.
 
 Hospital authorities, superintendents and medical officers should ensure that their hospitals remain patient-friendly and the staff work properly and keep duty time. Strict and exemplary action should be taken against those who indulge in undesirable practices. At the same time, if there were attempts to defame government hospitals by citing such isolated incidents, action should be initiated to single out those behind those smear campaigns, the minister added.
 
 
