AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old MBBS student, a resident of Himmatnagar, has accused a shuttle taxi driver — who identified himself as the driver of a prominent politician in   — of molesting her on the   highway on February 28. 

 The woman has also accused the driver, later identified as Sainish   of  , of subsequently sending her lewd messages and making threatening calls to her.
 
 According to the woman’s complaint, she first boarded Thakkar’s shuttle taxi to go from Chiloda to Chandkheda, where she had an interview on February 28.
 
 “On the way there, Thakkar told her that if she didn’t get transport to go back, he would take her. He then asked for her number which she refused. After he insisted, she took his number,” a police official said.
 
 “On the return journey, she went to Gandhinagar by a State Transport bus but could not get transport from Gandhinagar to Chiloda, from where she could catch a bus to Himmatnagar.
 
 “She called her brother up and he suggested that she use the taxi driver’s services. “She then called Thakkar, who said he was in Gandhinagar and would pick her up in five minutes,” a police official said.
 
 “After Thakkar arrived, the woman sat in the back of the vehicle. On the Chiloda-Gandhinagar highway, Thakkar stopped vehicle at a secluded spot and locked the doors and windows. 
 
 “He then pulled the woman towards him, grabbed her with one hand and took a selfie on his mobile with the other. He then molested her and made sexual demands, threatening to post the pictures he had taken on social media. As four or five vehicles were passing by, she started banging on the car window,” a police official said.
 
 “Thakkar got alarmed and unlocked the car doors. She got out and rushed to safety. Thakkar then started sending her lewd messages and made threatening calls to her. She said these had scared her and she initially couldn’t muster the courage to lodge a complaint earlier,” a police official said.
 
 Later, on the advice of her family, she first submitted an application of complaint to Himmatnagar police station. The cops there did not act, except for cautioning Thakkar over the phone. She then approached senior officers and an FIR was lodged at Chiloda police station in Gandhinagar.
 
 “We arrested the accused immediately, for molestation, intimidation and illegal confinement,” said inspector L D Vaghela of Chiloda police station.
 
 Police tracked down Thakkar from the mobile number he used to call and message the woman.
 
 
