NEW DELHI: A seven-year-old boy was kidnapped and murdered by his 21-year-old neighbour after the child resisted his attempts to sexually   him. The boy’s decomposed body was found in a canal near Okhla Industrial Area on Wednesday night. The man was found hiding at a relative’s house in Noida.

 It is also being probed whether the accused man, Sandeep Singh, had sexually assaulted other children as well. Cops have learnt that he was caught five years ago for raping a girl who lived next to his house in Okhla. He was a juvenile then.
 
 The child’s parents had approached cops on April 2 and registered a kidnapping case. The child was seen with Singh a few hours before he had disappeared. DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said, “A team led by SHO (Okhla) Mukesh Walia found that the man kept changing his location. He even switched off his phone. An search operation was launched, which included making announcements via loudspeakers from rickshaws and local temples.”
 
 On Wednesday night, the child’s body was found in the canal. The eyes and other organs were missing, presumably due to gnawing by animals, police said. The autopsy has confirmed murder.
 
 Later, police traced Singh to his relative’s house. During interrogation, he said that he stayed in the same colony as the boy and his mother used to treat him like a younger brother. He used to visit their house frequently. He used to work as a labourer at a food stall in Okhla and would often seek work from the boy’s father. Being from the same village, the child’s parents treated him as a family member.
 
 The accused had lured the child by promising to buy him sweets. He took the boy near the canal and tried to sexually assault him. However, the child started crying in pain. Fearing that the child would tell his parents, Singh strangled him with a cloth and then dumped the body in the canal. He then went to his relative’s house in Noida and kept a watch on news channels to find out if the child’s body has been discovered.
 
 Singh told police that he had spent a few months at a juvenile reform home after being caught sexually assaulting a girl child. He even went through a counselling session, but that did not change his attitude. Cops suspect that he may have assaulted children at the slum in Noida where he frequently stayed with his relatives.
 
