JAIPUR: Bright sunny Sunday helped the city people to celebrate   with full gusto. From morning till evening people were on their terraces were flying kites,   and watching picturesque firecrackers and   dotting the sky. As the sun rose on Sunday the revellers occupied positions on terraces,   with loud music playing in the background. As the day progressed women also joined the men. Friendly neighbours turned warriors for the day as they were seen challenging each other over kite flying and who will cut whose kite.

 “I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of the festival. I flew 10 kites and must have snapped 30 kites in the skies, thanks to my Bareilly ka manjha especially arranged by my shopkeeper,” said Mukul Jain, a resident of Kishanpole in Jaipur.
 
 City roads wore a deserted look while terraces were filled with families. Those living in high-rise apartments took refuge in their relatives’ houses that have terraces. “Every year I visit my masi (aunty) who has a house in the Subhash Chowk. Reason being we cannot use our apartment terrace for anything and you can get the thrill of kite flying only from the terrace,” said Abhinav Punjabi who lives in ahigh-rise in Bani Park.
 
 Families clad in traditional clothes headed to temples and fed pigeons and cows to mark the auspicious festival. The new trend of spending thousands on fire crackers also added more colour to the festival.
 
  Many social organisations distributed kites with a social message ‘ Beti Bachao, Beti Padao’. As Jaipur is known for its hospitality industry, many hotels and restaurants decorated the hotel with the kite theme and strings. Many big and wellknown hotels also organized kite flying events to give a taste of this wonderful festival to the tourists.
 
 Call centre at Ramniwas Bagh receives an alert at 3.30 pm. Rescue team reaches the location at 3.35 pm. A volunteer rescues an injured pigeon from a terrace and gives first-aid. The rescue workers take the pigeon in a box. At 4.15 pm, when they reach the bird hospital, it had already died.
 
 
