PANAJI: The cable-stayed   over the  , which Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to inaugurate in August, is unlikely to be ready by then. Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation officials are now hinting that the bridge could be inaugurated in October.

 With the monsoon just a month away and nearly 30% of the bridge incomplete, L&T, which is constructing the bridge, has indicated that for safety purposes, construction activity during the monsoon will slow down.
 
 While all the pylons and support piers have been built, the superstructure of the bridge is still under construction, said GSIDC vice-chairman Sidharth Kuncalienkar.
 
 “The plan is to complete the superstructure, which is over the river, by May 15, and definitely we should achieve this,” he said. The final cable-stayed span is coming up over the river with four cables already attached to segments of the span. Once completed, the span will combine with the other three spans to form the cable-stayed superstructure.
 
 “Four cables have already been connected and seven more cables are left for the last span,” Kuncalienkar said. “The south portion of the bridge is also being taken up on a war footing. The complete bridge will be ready in August-September, but the electrical wiring and hotmixing of the bridge will be possible only after the monsoon is over. The complete bridge will be ready by October.”
 
 In January, chief minister Manohar Parrikar had announced that the bridge would be completed by July and that Modi would inaugurate the bridge in August.
 
 Confirming that Modi was still expected to inaugurate the bridge, Kuncalienkar said, “The foundation of the bridge was laid by Modi. It will be worthwhile if the bridge is inaugurated by him.”
 
 He did add that the presence of Modi or the date for inauguration had not been finalized. The inauguration of the bridge could happen in October or November depending on the Modi’s availability.
 
 Prior to the announcement, GSIDC had said that the third Mandovi bridge would be commissioned by May 2018.
 
 
