KOLKATA:   (eastern bench) has ordered the seizure of dumpers and machinery being used to fill up wetlands in  , which is a habitat for thousands of migratory birds every winter. Between December and March, hundreds of birders from Kolkata flock to the wetlands located 35km away.

 The destruction of wetlands would also lead to the loss of the state’s water resources, adversely affecting the ecosystem of the adjoining areas. In addition, the local population would be deprived of their sources of income, which come from fishing.
 
  Land sharks have been trying to convert the 1,500 hectares of wetlands along National Highway-2 ( ) since 2012. A report published by TOI in February 2013 led to a PIL, following which,   ordered the state government to ensure that the character of Mullarbaer is not changed and encroached wetlands restored.
 
 Despite the court order, there were constant attempts to convert the land into real estate with fly ash being dumped to fill up the swamps. NGO Public, which filed the PIL, had subsequently moved  . The latter had in June 2016 ordered the district magistrate and superintendent of police to stop the encroachment. But a few months later, the dumpers laden with fly ash returned.
 
 
  
 Now, NGT has asked the DM and SP to seize such dumpers. The tribunal wants the administration to identify the violators and take appropriate action, including seizure of dumpers and machinery, until further orders. Both, the DM and SP have been asked to file a certificate of compliance.
 
 “These wetlands were created over a long period of time and are characterized by stretches of reed beds, comprising plants like hoghlaand shola, interspersed with water bodies. These are biodiversity hotspots with various species of flora and fauna. The bird concentration here is so high that birders and naturalists from all over the state visit this spot, especially in winter,” said Bonani Kakkar of Public.
 
 The area is also home to diverse species of mammals and reptiles protected under schedules I and II of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. More importantly, it is the habitat of the State Animal of West Bengal, the Fishing Cat (listed as endangered in the Red Data Book maintained by International Union for Conservation of Nature and protected under Schedule I).
 
