Choreographer-turned-filmmaker   returns to the director’s chair after 10 years with the upcoming action-romance ' '. In his candid and nonchalant style, he speaks about the hits and misses in his career as a filmmaker. He has been a choreographer since the 90s and his vast experience of working with the best of Bollywood has given him plenty of stories to tell. With '  2', he has tried to turn a new action-filled page in his career. Working with his firm favourites   and Sajid Nadiadwala, Ahmed hopes to shoot to the moon and back. Excerpts…

 
 I directed my first film, 'Lakeer – Forbidden Lines' (2004), when I was 28. Though the film had a huge star cast and music by AR Rahman, it didn’t do well. Then, I was offered 'Fool & Final' (2007), which did moderate business, but I had lost interest in direction. I involved myself in choreographing dance numbers, judging reality shows and directing music videos. At least, I was not waiting for a Friday when a judgement would be passed. A film’s box office fate did not depend on whether the song I choreographed was a hit or a flop. It was Tiger Shroff who told me that I should direct a film. His excitement propelled me towards direction once again. One day, Sajid Nadiadwala (producer) called me and asked me if I was still interested in direction; that’s when he offered me 'Baaghi 2'. After so many years if I am directing a film, it has to be for the biggest producer. I always wanted to direct a hard-core action film. I was constantly offered dance films, but I was not keen on it as I was already choreographing songs.
 
 
 For me, 'Baaghi 2' is like a litmus test — a make or break moment. If this film doesn’t bring me back into the game then I am not meant to direct a film. Nobody gets so many chances in life. Perhaps, people think that I am a good technician. The fact that I have been a choreographer for 23 years and survived in the industry must have helped me bag another film. The fact that the younger generation is keen on collaborating with me means that I have kept up with the times and haven’t become a Murphy radio (laughs).
 
 
 We travelled to Krabi, Chiang Mai, Kanchanaburi and then Bangkok in search of a mountain on which a chopper could land and simultaneously another chopper would rise up in the air for an action sequence. We have worked with three action co-ordinators in the film including Kecha, Ram Lakshman from the South and Shamsher Khan who brought in different sensibilities. I spent nine months planning all the action sequences, but I shot it in a few days. In fact, this film was shot in 69 days when action films take minimum 100 days. In Kulu Manali, we shot in -13 degrees. Krabi was burning hot when we canned the chopper scene. We have also done a chase sequence in Goa with 40 cars!
 
 
 When I came on set for 'Mundiyan To Bach Ke', it was air-conditioned and in complete contrast to the action sequences which we had shot outdoors. My assistant Rahul Shetty choreographed this song and   has done the 'Ek Do Teen' remix. I didn’t want to choreograph for this film, as I wanted to completely focus on direction.
 
 
 Sajid and I are like brothers. We used to fight, I used to walk out and then he would eventually agree and incorporate my suggestions. On the first day of shoot, he came to the set and sat for 20 minutes. After that he never came on set. He sits on the edit, but how it’s shot is totally my call. I can put my foot down whenever I feel that it is required. Till today, one scene in the film is a bone of contention between the two of us (laughs). We have discussed how we will be fighting over it even after the film’s release. In fact, the third installment of 'Baaghi' has already been announced. He is a dream producer to work with.
 
 
 There is no controversy. We have officially bought the rights of 'Kshanam' and we will be giving the credit for the same, which clearly states that it is an adaptation of the Telugu film. We have also scaled up our film up for a pan-India audience. The original was a huge hit in Telugu and Tamil and now, it’s been remade in Hindi. T-Series officially bought the rights of 'Mundiyan To Bach Ke'. Who will be given credit for the song, is something that is between the music label and the original composers. How can I do anything about it?
 
 
 Kamal Master was the first choreographer to turn director when he made a film with his son. Years later, Farah Khan and I turned directors around the same time. I think what we did made many choreographers believe that they could also become directors. We are technicians, so it’s a natural transition.
 
 
 
