RAIPUR:   police have cracked blind murder case of a young boy found on railway tracks and have arrested parents of his girlfriend. The couple had caught their daughter and the youth in objectionable condition on the terrace of their house few days ago and losing temper, the father attacked him with an iron rod while the youth in haste to escape, fell off from the top. Parents threw his body on tracks. 

 
 Mahasamund police said that cops had recovered a mutilated body at   railway crossing on March 23 and was identified as 25-year-old Hiralal   from Baghbehra. 
 
 Police was informed by an engine driver about a body lying on tracks. While it looked like a suicide case of jumping in front of the train, police was suspicious as the body didn't had deep injury marks usually caused by train. 
 
 During its investigation police learnt that the youth was in relationship with a girl and her parents had earlier warned him to keep distance from her.
 
 But the lovers continued meeting. It was on night of March 23, incidentally also birthday of Hairalal and they decided to celebrate it. 
 
 When girl's parents were fast asleep, Hiralal tip-toed inside her house and the duo went to the terrace to celebrate his birthday. Girl's mother heard some sounds coming from and she woke up her husband. When the couple went up the terrace, they were shocked to see their daughter in intimate condition with Hiralal.
 
 In a fit of rage, girl's father   picked an iron rod kept in corner and attacked Hiralal. Shocked with sudden attack, Hiralal attempted to escape the spot but his leg slipped from the terrace wall and he died as soon as he fell on the ground. 
 
 Fearing arrest Dewar took Hiralal's body on his bike to railway track and dumped it there. The couple then cleaned blood stains from terrace and floor and went out of station next day. 
 
 Meanwhile, police traced the call details of Hiralal that showed girl's mobile number dialed multiple times and last call also made to her.
 
 Based on suspicion, police detained girl's parents and started interrogation, when they easily broke and confessed to crime. The couple was arrested under Section 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC.
 
 
