CHENNAI: A day after a 76-year-old man and his wife were found beaten to death in their third floor Taramani flat, the police on Wednesday arrested a mason and charged him with the double murder. A court later sent Alam Bhai, a 25-year-old from Kolkata, to jail. 

 Alam Bhai, who had relaid floor tiles at the flat, confessed to killing   and his wife M  , 72, and stealing gold and cash because they withheld his payment of Rs 28,000 citing faults in the work and insisted that he do it all over again, a police officer said.
 
 After scouring CCTV camera footage from the slain couple’s apartment and at the building complex, a police team picked up Alam Bhai from his house in Athipattu near Minjur. He told investigators he dumped 13 sovereigns of gold jewellery amid   near the victims’ house and fled with Rs 12,000. The police are, however, yet to recover the stolen gold and cash. A police officer said, “We will take the suspect Alam Bhai into custody to question him further.”
 
 In his confessional statement, a police officer said, Alam Bhai, who lived in Athipattu with his wife and children, claimed he had been working at Mayandi’s house over the past five months. After completion of the work, he asked Mayandi to settle his dues as his wife recently delivered a still-born child and that he had to take care of her treatment. However, Mayandi continued to delay payment, he said.
 
 On Tuesday afternoon, he requested Mayandi to give him Rs 500 as he was in dire need of money but that the elderly man yelled at him and refused to pay, he said. Then he pleaded with Valli Nayagi who gave him Rs 500 from a bag in which he saw more  , Alam Bhai told the police.
 
 He then hit Mayandi repeatedly on the head with a stick and also attacked Valli Nayagi in the same fashion. After she fell down, bleeding profusely, he snatched her 13-sovereign gold chain and ran out of the building with her cash bag containing Rs 12,000, Alam Bhai admitted in his statement.
 
 The incident came to light when a few women who stayed at the private hostel that occupied the first and second floors of the building returned and found Mayandi and his wife dead. They alerted the police control room. A team of the Thoraipakkam police arrived and sent the bodies to the   (GRH).
 
 Mayandi and his wife, natives of Tirunelveli, stayed with their their younger son, who runs a grocery store, while their elder son was in Bengaluru and daughter abroad.
 
 
