CHENNAI: A 26-year-old stalker murdered a college student in full public view in   on Friday afternoon, dramatically asking her to set his petrol-soaked body afire before viciously slashing her throat with a knife. The assailant was caught by passersby and soundly thrashed before being handed over to the police who arrested him. A court later sent him to the Puzhal Central Prison.

 Maduravoyal resident Ashwini Mohan was walking from  , where she was a first-year B Com student, when the incident occurred around 3pm, the police said, based on witness accounts. The 20-year-old was with a few of her friends on Loganathan Street, around 200 metres from the institution, when the stalker, Alagesan Ganesan of Alapakkam, barred her way.
 
 Handing her a cigarette lighter, he demanded that she set him ablaze. While her friends screamed for help, Ashwini flung aside the lighter and tried to walk away, but Alagesan, who worked with a packaged water supply agency, held her firmly, her friends told the police. He pulled out a knife, pressed it in her hand and tried to kill himself with it. As she pushed his hand away, he slashed her neck and she fell to the ground, blood pouring out of the grievous wound.
 
 An ambulance was called, but one of the woman’s friends wrapped the wound in a kerchief and took her on his bike, with a girl holding Ashwini from behind, to a private hospital where doctors declared her dead on arrival. Several residentsof the area chased and nabbed Alagesan, still holding the blood-stained knife, and beat him up.
 
 Preliminary investigations revealed that Ashwini’s father Mohan died a long time ago and her mother Sankari, a Tiruvannamalai native, worked as a house maid and raised her.
 
 A police officer said Alagesan had on February 14 barged into Ashwini’s Maduravoayal residence and forcibly tied a ‘thali’ (mangalsutra) around her neck, claiming she was henceforth his ‘wife’. Soon after the incident, Sankari and her family members lodged a complaint with the Maduravoyal police, saying it had been done without her consent and demanding that action be taken against him.
 
 Alagesan too gave a statement. The police issued a community service register (CSR) document after Alagesan agreed to stay away from Ashwini. But he had continued to follow her, the officer said.
 
 On Friday, during questioning, Alagesan told investigators that soon after the ‘marriage’, Ashwini had been convincedby her mother to remove the ‘thali’ (mangalsutra) and give it to him.
 
 He claimed he had intercepted her near her college in an effort to ‘patch up’. On the other hand, Alagesan’s sister Paripooranam told reporters that Alagesan and Ashwini were in love with each other. “She was ready to marry my brother, but stepped back as her family members refused to accept the proposal,” she said.
 
 
