NAGPUR: One more low cost operator would be commencing direct flight from Nagpur to Bangalore and Kolkata from March end, according to senior officials of   (MIL), that runs the city airport.

  India Ltd (AAIL), a Malaysian low cost operator having joint venture with Tatas, would be operating an Airbus A320-200 having 180 seats on this sector. AAIL senior official   visited the city airport on Thursday for inspection of facilities. He then confirmed the flight timings from Nagpur to MIL. An agreement in this regard between MIL and AAIL would be signed within a month, officials said.
 
 “It is good news for all passengers, particularly those going to southern and eastern parts of the country. AAIL officials have confirmed they would be operating flights from city airport to Kolkata and Bangalore. They have booked slots from March end. However, the aircraft would not be based in city but operate from their base in Bangalore,” senior airport director   told TOI. 
 
 The new flight would depart from Bangalore at 8am and arrive in Nagpur at 9.30am. It would then leave for Kolkata at 9.50am reaching there about 11.30am. It would returned from Kolkata at 1.40pm and leave for Bangalore from here at 2pm.
 
 “From Bangalore, the operator has many flights to popular destinations like Chennai, Cochin and other places at regular intervals. They can avail any connecting flight. They could also get a direct connecting flight to   and other overseas destinations,” MIL officials said.
 
 They added that from Kolkata too, flyers would get connecting flights to northeast destinations like Guwahati and  . Indigo already operates flights to both these destinations from city. In fact, Indigo parks its aircraft that operates the sector in city.
 
 An AirAsia spokesperson refused to come on record. “I haven’t received any instructions from AAIL authorities in this regard. I can only confirm the operator has many plans to start services from Tier II cities and Nagpur is one of them,” she said.
 
 
