
 
 With Balkrishna V Doshi, the doyen of Indian architecture winning this year’s Prtizker prize, Chandigarh has every reason to celebrate. As this self-effacing, gentle grandmaster with over 100 projects spread over 70 years of practice to his credit, he has dedicated the coveted prize, considered ‘Architecture Nobel’ to his guru Le  .

 Doshi is the only Indian who has had the privilege of working in Corbsuier’s Paris atelier in the 1950s, and was later also tasked to supervise Chandigarh’s then   which was under construction — the very project he had worked on in Paris. The numerable lifelong lessons learnt from Corbusier, in the ‘game of architecture’ have been one of Doshi’s prime inspirations.
 
 Soon after getting accepted as an apprentice in Corbusier’s office, Doshi was given the task of working on the high court building that was being detailed out from a conceptual stage. The section had already been visualised by Corbusier, and Doshi was asked to develop the plan and the remaining details for this monumental edifice.
 
 Initially, young Balkrishna’s unfamiliarity with the Corbusier’s way of working coupled with his inadequate French approach made it challenging for the nervous, awkward, home-sick Indians surviving on milk, bread and olives for meals with no pay for the initial eight months (a precondition laid by Corbusier) to cope up with. Later, contrary to the common perception of Corbusier as a domineering gaunt, formal and reticent figure, Doshi found him to be a very gentle and patient teacher.
 
 Recalling Corbusier’s guidance on during construction of the high court, “Drawing the outline of the inclined roof, he drew three human figures at the base of the section and told that this is how you measure scale of the building. Do you now see how large this volume is? Remember the reality is always measured by how and what we perceive.” Anyone who has stood in the huge portico of the high court building — the three large pylons supported by the vaulted parasol roof overhead, will agree with the lesson in mastery of scale and space, that young Doshi learnt. And of course he learnt many more things that one experiences at the Capitol Complex. For Corbusier, architecture was not an art practiced in isolation of man and nature. His ‘pact with nature’ is manifested in the elements of landscape, cosmos woven into the architectural ensemble of the capitol.
 
 After four years of rich experiences with the Corbusier, Doshi returned to India to work on his building sites in Chandigarh and Ahmedabad. All that he had only seen in the form of sketches and drawings on tracing paper was now taking shape in concrete. Nothing could be more exhilarating and valuable an experience for the young architect, who eventually set up his own practice carrying with him the lessons he had learnt. Even as Doshi’s early works were influenced by Le Corbusier, as can be seen in the robust form of concrete which he employed later, he took the language of his buildings later beyond this idiom.
 
 On his visit to Chandigarh in October 2016, he delivered a spell-binding two-hour slide lecture standing from the sculptural concrete ovalshaped podium in the ‘trench of consideration’ in the sunken base of the open hand looming large overhead. The standing ovation at the end of the lecture by the audience bears testimony to the 89-year grandmaster of Indian architecture. The Pritzker prize just acknowledges this.
 
 
 
 
