DHAIPAI (LUDHIANA): Two sons of a family became blind in a span of five years and their father suffered many heart attacks, forcing women of the house to run from pillar to post and work hard for their treatment. To help the family, a youth of the village uploaded a video on their plight, which has gone viral.

 Pal Singh, 62, has suffered multiple heart attacks during the past five years after his elder son Kuldeep Singh, 38, lost his sight because of cement getting in his eyes. A year ago, his younger son Gurpreet Singh, 33, also became blind.
 
 Kuldeep said, “I used to work with a mason. I rubbed my eyes after cement got in and as a result I lost my eyesight. Shocked, my father suffered a heart attack. Later, my younger brother lost sight to typhoid. It was a double shock for my father whose health deteriorated further and villagers got him a pacemaker. As my father, brother and I cannot work, my wife   and brother’s wife   Kaur work as labourers for our treatment and livelihood and also to provide education to my 11-year-year-old son Gursewak Singh, nine-year-old daughter   and twin seven-year-old nephews,   and Jagpreet.”
 
 His younger brother Gurpreet said they went to an eye hospital in Ambala, but the doctors said his treatment would require Rs 1 lakh and there was no hope for his brother. “We are poor and don’t have any land. It is my wife and sister-in-law who are working for us. They earn just Rs 400 a day. We are waiting for some help from charitable people,” he said.
 
 The elder brother said on January 21, a village youth, Mandeep Singh, had uploaded the video of their suffering on social media after which many came forward, but till now they haven’t got any help.
 
 Mandeep said he has got messages from callers, promising lifetime help to the family, apart from two cooking gas cylinders a month.
 
 Meanwhile, villager   said, “The panchayat is trying to help them. We are waiting for donors to come forward and contribute for the family that is very poor.”
 
