KOLKATA: Kolkata   wants greater flexibility in tweaking the rules to implement the new property tax assessment procedure so that it gains greater acceptance among tax payers. At present, the civic authorities have to move the state municipal affairs department for each minor change as the latter is the regulatory authority for unit area assessment in the entire state.

  sources said the mayor had already written to state municipal affairs minister, explaining the need to recognise it as the regulatory authority for implementing UAA. Though KMC is the nodal agency for implementing  , the regulatory authority is vested with the municipal affairs department.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “The poor response of property tax payers to UAA has compelled us to make minor modifications in the selfassessment procedure. Seeking a nod from the minicipal affairs department at every step is time-consuming and reduces our flexibility,” a civic official said.
 
 There is also a realisation that some parts of the tax calculation procedure lack transparency. “We need to take taxpayers into confidence and dispel doubts instead of making the process more bureaucratic,” said a senior KMC assessment department official.
 
 A KMC revenue department official said the civic body could offer more sops if the municipal affairs department approves the proposal and makes it the regulatory authority. “We need to make minor changes in categorization of property zones that will determine the amount of tax one has to shell out. This apart, the form a taxpayer is supposed to fill up can be simplified further,” the official said.
 
 Mayor   had on Monday conceded that the UAA had been facing hurdles ever since it was rolled out last year. He sought to assuage fears of an irrational jump in tax in the new regime, clarifying that any increase, or decrease, would be within 20% of the existing tax structure.
 
 “The new self-assessment method is facing teething problems. This won’t last long. We will set the UAA on the right track and attract tax payers to accept the new taxing system,” he said.
 
