KOTA: A forty year old garlic cultivator, depressed over low purchase price of garlic crop on Tuesday noon committed suicide by consuming poisonous substance in Kajaliya village under Ayana police station of   district. It is the second suicide by a garlic cultivator over low price of the crop in   within one week.

 “Laxmi Chand Suman (40), a resident of Kajliya village consumed poisonous substance at his home today,” SHO at Ayana police station Babu Lal Meena said. “He was rushed to government hospital in Etawa town from where he was referred to Maharao Bhim Singh hospital in Kota but the farmer succumbed to death on the way to hospital.” According to family members of the deceased, Laxmi Chand had cultivated garlic crop over a piece of land he had taken on contractual rent but he went into depression after he heard the low purchase price of garlic in the market. “The farmer was napping under a mango tree today noon in the backyard of his home when the family members reached there, they found him unconscious with form pouring out of his mouth. The deceased farmer had also cultivated wheat over ten bigas of his land and was reportedly running under debt of around 8 to 10 lakhs,” the SHO added.
 
 Police have lodged the matter under section 174 of Cr. P. C. and initiated investigation. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem.
 
 It is the second such case as another debt ridden farmer identified as Ravadlilal Meghwal (60), a resident of Rehlai village under   police station of Baran district on April 18 consumed poisonous substance at his home and died the next day during treatment at MBS hospital in Kota. 
 
 The elder son of the deceased farmer had alleged that his father was running under heavy debt and was depressed over not getting fair price of his garlic yield. 
 
 Other farmer identified as Bane Singh Lodha (40), a resident of Vaajindpura village under Ratlai police station of   district had consumed pesticide last Saturday and was rushed to SRG medical college hospital in Jhalawar where he is undergoing treatment. In his statement to the police today, the farmer however refused to have attempted suicide. “The farmer undergoing treatment stated that he had consumed pesticide by mistake presuming it to be cough syrup as it was in a cough syrup vile,” SHO at Ratlai police station   said. 
 
 The government had ordered a few days back for the purchase of garlic crop under market intervention scheme but the same order is still tied to the files and has not reached to the concerned officials at government purchase centers. “The order to purchase garlic crop under market intervention scheme has not been received so far,” said a senior official from RAJFED.
 
 Around 10,000 quintals of garlic crop is currently reaching to the Mandi at Kota daily for sale but in absence of fair price of the crop, cultivators are measuring pillar to pole for sale. 
 
 Notably, at least six garlic cultivators had committed suicide last year in Kota region due to low price of garlic crop in the market.
 
 
