KOLKATA: The Class-IX girl, who was allegedly molested by a non-teaching staff member in a south Kolkata school, tells TOI the traumatic experience she underwent on the campus. 

  Four of us were sitting inside the classroom when kaku (uncle) suddenly barged in. Nobody had asked him to come. A friend was showing us some small wooden sculptures she had made. The moment she saw kaku, she hid them. He noticed it and jumped on us. "What are you hiding? Show me, else I will report against you," he said. As he tried to see the sculptures, he touched me. 
 
  
 
 
 I felt uncomfortable, but I thought it might not have been intentional. I left from there to attend to the friend who had cut her finger. But Kaku followed us there and asked what had happened. When he saw we were putting medicine on her cut, he pushed us aside and started tying a bandage on her. He stood very close to us.
 
  
 
 
 Kaku suddenly asked if we had any money with us. I had Rs 400. He asked me to show the amount. When I took it out of the bag, he snatched the notes. I resisted but he overpowered me. I burst into tears.
 
  
 
 
 As I cried, he came forward. I thought he was trying to console me but kaku groped me instead. I felt like being touched by a snake, his intention was clear to me . I shouted, " Kaku, eta ki korchho (what are you doing uncle)?" He hissed through his teeth, " Chup. Keu jano jante na pare (Shut up. Nobody should know about this)." I felt a chill running down my spine. 
 
  
 
 
 I decided to report the episode to the teacher. As I entered the teacher-in-charge's room, kaku stood outside the room and gestured me to keep quiet. But I told the teachers whatever happened. When I came out of the room, he looked at me in disbelief. "Now you see what happens next," he said.
 
  Last year too, I was sitting in a classroom, he came in with a notice and touched me on my shoulder. Some other friends also had similar experiences. He would even peep into the girls' toilet. Kaku often told us he had a daughter. Would act this way with her as well?
 
 
