TRICHY: Rail users have condemned the continuous cancellation of   –   with railways announcing stoppage of its operation again for 21 days from May 11. 

 With the steep hike in bus fare, the public are mostly dependent on express trains and the railways cancelling this particular express has created apprehensions among commuters.
 
 The train is a commuter train and is widely used by general passengers too. The track related engineering works between Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai (30 kms) is being carried out for more than one year since April 8, 2017. The short distance express train had high patronage until its first cancellation in April, 2017. In the annual consultation meeting with MPs held at Madurai during December 2017, it was assured that its services will resume without any further cancellations with effect from February 1, 2018. 
 
 But contrary to the assurance, the train was again cancelled for 21 days from March 7, 2018, to facilitate engineering works related to commissioning of doubling between Trichy and Srirangam. After operating for two days, it was again cancelled from April 2 to 30, 2018. Now after operating the train for just 10 days, Trichy division has announced the cancellation for another 21 days from May 11, 2018, said A Giri, vice-president, Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association.
 
 “On enquiry with the divisional authorities in the DRUCC meeting on prolonged engineering works between Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai, we were told that since track renewal works were not carried out in this section in the last 25 years, the works are getting delayed”, he said. It may be noted that the section was opened after gauge conversion only in 2007 and not 25 years before as stated.
 
 “Though we agree that there exist some engineering issues which could not be commonly discussed and there should not be any compromise on the safety of the passengers, endless delay in completing the works resulting to a year-long cancellation of a particular train is not acceptable”, he said.
 
 The association has requested the railway authorities not to approve any further line blocks which will result in further cancellation of the train.
 
 
