NAGPUR: Panic gripped shoppers at Empress Mall on Sunday after relatives of the three labourers who died in a well on the mall’s premises created scenes by bringing the bodies there after post-mortem. The relatives kept the bodies on the floor at the entrance and demanded compensation for Rs25 lakh each for the kin of the victims. 

 The bodies were brought to the mall around 4.15pm when there were hundreds of shoppers inside. Around 6pm, cops closed entry to the mall. All the shops were shut by 7.30pm. 
 
 Some of the local politicians, who accompanied the relatives, later arranged to keep the bodies in freezers to prevent them from decomposing.
 
 Many shoppers were stranded in the mall for almost two hours as cops had cordoned off the place. Police assured the shoppers that the situation was under control and later provided them a safe passage out. A senior police official said that police personnel of six police stations were summoned to the spot.
 
 Sources said the relatives left the mall with the bodies around 10.15pm following assurance regarding compensation from the management. “The management gave Rs50,000 each to the families of the deceased as immediate relief,” the sources said. 
 
  police had on Saturday night booked KSL industries chairman Pravin Tayal and mall manager   along with other three, identified as Pradip Bhawte, Sameer Takone and Komal Raijode, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. TOI made calls to Tayal and management and even sent text messages but there was no response.
 
 Sources claimed that Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has promised Rs2 lakh each for the family of the deceased. “Compensation will also be provided from chief minister’s relief fund,” the sources said. 
 
 The relatives claimed that the victims were the only bread earner in their families. One of the deceased, Deepak Gauthe was a carpenter who is survived by wife Archana, son  , 12, and daughter Nidhi, 15. “The most important person in my life is dead due to negligence of the mall management. We do not have any source of income now. We want compensation and the education expenses for our children from the mall owner,” Archana told TOI.
 
 Another deceased Chandrashekhar Barapatre leaves behind wife Ranjana, son Adarsh, 16, and daughter Payal, 14. The third deceased Ajay Garodi is survived by wife Nanda and two sons  , 8, and Yuvraj, 11.
 
 
