They might be giving you #couplegoals by posting mushy photos together on social media, but when we asked   and   about their relationship status, the duo was quick to clarify, "We are best friends, we are BFFs." "Himansh bestie hai mera," said Neha, to which Himansh replied, "Arrey yaar, sab bata diya, kuch toh masala rehene dete!"

  
  
 
 The two were in Delhi last week, and we took them to   for a photoshoot. Himansh joked, "Abhi kuch logon ko yeh lag raha hoga ki   humara wedding shoot kar raha hai." Neha quipped that some of the comments they get on their pictures together are very funny. "I like wearing a ring on my ring finger, so people think that we are engaged. Par aisa kuch nahi hai," said Neha.
 
 Neha added, "I once joked in an interview that we are together, and the news article that was published read that I have accepted that we are together, but we are not. Hum bahut achhe dost hain, hum best friends hain. We are #bffs, bestie hai Himansh mera."
 
  
  
 
 
 While Neha Kakkar shifted to Delhi from Rishikesh when she was a kid, Himansh was born and brought up in Delhi. Surprisingly, both of them had never been to Rashtrapati Bhavan before. "Main jata tha India Gate ke paas se, mujhe humesha aisa lagta tha ki agar hum Rashtrapati Bhavan aayenge toh humein goliyon se bhun diya jayega. Par aaj mujhe lag raha hai ki isse sundar jagah toh koi hai hi nahi. Yahi toh woh jagah hai jahan aake aapko baithna chahiye," said Himansh.
 
  
  Neha Kakkar and Himansh Kohli
 
  Neha added, "When we talk about Delhi, the best memories I have are from my childhood. I was born in Rishikesh, but when I was around two or three, we shifted to Delhi. Maine 4-16 saal tak jagran sandhya and mata ki chowki hi ki hai. Toh mera poora bachpan jagran karte huye hi beeta hai aur mazze bhi kiye hain. Himansh mujhe pehle mila nahi, nahi toh hum saath mein jagran karte."
 
 
 Both Neha and Himansh might enjoy the love that their fans shower on them, but there are times when they are trolled by each other's fans. "Himansh is getting trolled right, left and centre because of me. My male fans have been trolling him and I think it is vice versa. Iski female fans mujhe troll karti hain," Neha told us, to which Himansh quickly replied, "Woh itna nahi karti. But I am being trolled especially by her fans from Punjab. Mujhe aisa lagta hai saara Punjab mere peeche padh gaya hai. Dar lagta hai mujhe, Punjab nahi jaunga main."
 
  
  
 
  Talking about one such experience, Himansh said, "We had posted a picture together jis mein mera haath Neha ke shoulder pe tha, us pe comment tha, 'Haath hata, hata'. I was like, haath hi toh rakha hua hai normally, par log itne emotional ho jaate hain ki woh Neha Kakkar hai."
 
  
  
 
 "Our fans love us so much. Bahut achha lagta hai jab log comment karte hain, 'best couple', 'couple goals'. Hum humesha try, try nahi hum humesha saath rahenge. I want to tell the whole world that it is not that you can only have the best jodi with your boyfriend or girlfriend. You can have it with your best friend as well," Neha said. 
 
  
  
 
 --Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com
 
 
