Pune: The civic administration has started collecting   from the 11 villages merged in the city limits last year.

 Over 9,715 property owners from these villages have paid property tax of over Rs 4.75 crore in the past two months. There are about 1.42 lakh properties in the 11 villages merged in the city limits in 2017.
 
 
  
  
 
 The tax collection from new areas is crucial for the civic administration, facing a dip in the revenue collection in the current fiscal. The   till December 2017 was at an alarming low. The administration could collect only 39% tax against the target of over Rs 1,200 crore.
 
 Officials in the   claimed that the merged villages would play a vital role in pushing up the civic body’s tax collection because the administration was expecting more tax recovery from the new areas by the end of March. A senior official said the recent tax recovery of Rs 4.75 from the new areas was based on the tax levied by the respective gram panchayats on the properties earlier.
 
 “The property tax slabs are higher in the city limits as compared to rural parts. Hence, the property owners in the newly merged areas will now have to shift to the tax slabs of  . They will have to pay more tax annually,” he said.
 
 The PMC administration clarified that the additional burden of tax would not be recovered at one go. The tax will be increased in a phased manner over a span of next five years to bring it at par with the existing tax in the city. This process will start from the next financial year (2018-19).
 
 According to the PMC’s property tax department, the city has over 8.5 lakh properties. The civic activists, however, stressed the number could go up because many properties in the city were still out of the property tax department’s ambit.
 
 The activists claimed that the department had not made enough efforts to bring more properties in the tax net. Even PMC’s ambitious programme of   had not been able to identify the tax evaders, the activists claimed.
 
 
