MYSURU: In a departure from his, and the party’s earlier stance, state president of the JD(S) and former chief minister   on Saturday did not unequivocally rule out the possibility of fielding his nephew   in the upcoming assembly elections. Hinting at Prajwal being nominated as the party candidate from the Rajarajeshwari assembly segment in Bengaluru, Kumaraswamy said, “There is nothing wrong if he aspires to contest the polls. But I have not decided yet.”

 The former CM’s remarks run contrary to the statements he had made a few months ago, wherein he had affirmed that only two members of the family – himself and former minister   – would contest the assembly elections, at a time when it was rumoured that Prajwal was eyeing the ticket for the Hunsur constituency in Mysuru.
 
 On the party’s candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections, Kumaraswamy said that the leadership would take a call on the issue later.
 
 
 
 
 In a clear message to the party’s Mysuru leaders, MLC Sandesh Nagaraju, and his brother Sandesh Swamy, who expressed their disappointment over not being given tickets for the polls, Kumaraswamy told them to accept the leadership’s decision to field the minority leader   from the Narasimharaja segment. “We have put the interest of the party above those of a family. There is no question of changing the candidate for the segment. We have nominated Nagaraju to the council, besides promoting other members of his family,” said Kumaraswamy, confirming that there was a consensus within the JD(S) on the first list of candidates. The former CM paid a visit to Abdullah’s home while he was here, and interacted with other local leaders.
 
 Sandesh Swamy, a former mayor, was upset over the nomination of Abdullah for Narasimharaja segment. In the meanwhile, reports of the   trying to rope him into their ranks have been doing the rounds. “We are trying to get Swamy into the party fold, but there is opposition to the move within the party,” a senior BJP leader told STOI. Other aspirants within the BJP for the NR segment ticket are not too chuffed with the reports of the party fielding Swamy from the constituency. “We have not promised Swamy the ticket for the elections,” the leader clarified. 
 
 
 
 
 Taking a swipe at BJP state president and former CM BS Yeddyurappa, HD Kumaraswamy said, “While he has been taking credit for the many pro-people schemes that he claims to have initiated when the BJP-JD(S) government was in power, he should also claim credit for corrupting the system and going to jail. Yeddyurappa has said that he was the finance minister when we were in government together, and has been taking credit for schemes that were initiated then. I fail to understand why he does not mention schemes he implemented when he was the CM for three years.”
 
 
