If two brothers nurtured and grew what was once the country’s biggest selling alcoholic brand  , then it’s up to another two siblings from the second generation to safeguard its legacy.

 Both Hemant and   are fully aware of the remarkable roller-coaster ride that saw their family jewel scale dizzying heights under their father Sukhdev and uncle   to become the global no. 3 rum brand, before slipping to lose its dominance even in the domestic market.
 
 As the young blood now take charge after the passing of their octogenarian uncle Brigadier Kapil Mohan -- the longest serving chairman of Mohan Meakin – the resurrection has already been marked. 
 
 For the last decade Hemant, who took over as MD four years ago, has tried to make Old Monk relevant once again, leveraging on the equity of the brand. New launches, brand extensions, premiumisation with Old Monk Gold Reserve, Old Monk Supreme and a clutch of limited edition launches have helped recoup sales to over 5 million cases after touching an all-time low of 3.5 million cases, a couple of years ago.
 
 With sales going up, profit margins have improved and indebtedness is gradually coming down. In FY 2017, the company doubled its net profit to Rs 6.97 crore on a flat operating income growth at Rs 465.57 crore. Total debts has come down to Rs 53 crore last fiscal compared to about Rs 87 crore three years ago.
 
 “We will keep adding value and make the brand more desirable," said 50-year old Hemant who joined the business way back in 1991. "We will also have limited edition Old Monk with maybe gold, silver or a crystal laden bottle as a collector’s edition.”
 
 The recently launched Old Monk Legend, which are aged slightly longer, is priced at Rs 1,200 a bottle in Maharashtra -- the highest for any domestic rum. In its first month itself, it got the numbers that were expected in three years, claims the company.
 
 Interestingly, the brothers are keen to take the battle right to their biggest global rival Bacardi net month as it plans to enter the ready-to-drink (RTD) category in direct competition to Breezer. Next month, it will extend Old Monk into ready to drink segment with cola, cranberry and mojito flavours - entering Bacardi Breezer's turf. Flavoured white rum extensions from apple and orange to lemon which were launched in select markets will be taken across India.
  
 It’s not just rum but the strategy will be adapted right across the portfolio. Within whiskey, it has recently introduced Solan Gold single malt which is now being repackaged for a pan India launch. With a price tag of Rs 2000 a bottle, the spirit is distilled in Kasauli and bottled at Solan and just 3500 cases will be available. Another whiskey brand Solan Black will be launched. Existing brands - Solan number 1 have been repackaged for markets such a Punjab and Himachal Pradesh while Colonel’s Special whiskey will also be revived with a new look.
 
 Over the last three years, the company have sharpened their distribution and recently rejigged some of their bottling and selling agents for states including Kerala, Telangana, Orissa and West Bengal. But not all brands will get equal focus - its vodka brand Knight rider and nearly a dozen beer brands such as Golden Eagle and Lion will not be pushed aggressively. It won't be discontinued either.
 
 The company, however, will shift its focus on food portfolio that accounts for 10% of its sales or Rs 60 crore annually - mainly from Mohun's cornflakes and Gold Coin apple juice. It will launch and relaunch a portfolio of ten new products over the next few months- from oats, choco-fills, chocolate flakes, muesli and poha. "We want FMCG products to touch Rs200 crore sales mark in the next five years," said Vinay Mohan, who is handling the expansion.
  
  
 
 
 But clawing back to rum sales of a peak 8 million cases is not easy. While it can be argued that Mohan Meakin’s volume loss over the years may not be so important, as long as it make value gains, the trend also indicates less rum consumption – an obvious negative for the segment as a whole.
 
 For many decades rum was one of the most dynamic categories in the spirits industry and Bacardi was its largest brand globally. In recent years, the growth has slowed and the brand leader has gone into reverse. Bacardi itself has struggled to shake off its ubiquitous image that was once the hallmark of its success. There is no better example of the unexpected downturn in rum’s fortunes than the decision by Edrington to take successive write-downs on the value of Brugal rum, which was barely acquired a decade ago.
 
 The Global Rum Insights report also forecast a compound annual drop of 0.5% between 2016 and 2021, representing a decline of almost 3.7m cases, with rum's top three markets - India, the US and the Philippines - all expected to record falls. Between 2010 and 2015, the segment registered a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 0.6%.
 
 In India, consumption of rum accounts for over one-tenth of the spirits market by volume in 2016. And its sales has slumped from 401.0 million liters in 2014 to 387.2 million liters in 2016. "It is forecasted to follow similarly declining trend in near future. This is largely due to changing consumer’s tastes as huge consumer base of Indian middle class shifting towards premium whiskies," said Apoorva Nema, consumer markets analyst at GlobalData.
 
 Cola mixed with rum could also be part of the backlash against sugar in India, the diabetes capital of the world. Experts, however, argue that Old Monk can still be an exception. "The brand is not rum. It's a category in itself. Old Monk needs to appeal to younger consumers who are not fixated on a brand or category. Also, these tipplers don't follow the old and unspoken trend of starting with beer, then going on to white spirits before they embrace brown spirits," said Sandeep Arora, director at luxury spirits consultancy Spiritual Luxury Living.
 
 Some though believe, the company can still be steered back from the abyss, say peers. "Old Monk surpasses all age and class barrier. Its a rare virtue to have for any spirits brand," said Roshini Sanah Jaiswal, promoter of Jagatjit Industries that owns 3.3% stake in Mohan Meakin.
 
 "Kapil dad used to always say a good product will always pass the test of time," quips Hemant. But nostalgia aside, Old Monk is a classic case of missed opportunities. Once courted by Vijay Mallaya and marque global brands, the Mohan family has seen glory come and vanish from very close quarters. 
  
  
 
 
 Even though family partriarch Narendra Nath Mohan started the brand in 1954 after buying Mohan Meakin, then Dyer Meakin Company from the Dyer family of Jalianwala infamy, in 1949, the initial success of Old Monk was solely due to his sons. 
 
 Many would call the company a product of Indira Gandhi’s license that by the 1970s and 80’s had morphed from a tiny distillery to a sprawling 103 acre headquarters that even today houses its corporate HQs, a clubhouse, residential complex, a central laboratory, glass factory, brewery, distillery and food factory.
 
 Kapil Mohan ran the empire with iron fist for over four decades, something that many industry peers would say was responsible for the decline. “He was a relic from the past. He should have sold out ages ago. Hopefully, with the Gen Next in charge now, those talks will resume,” quipped a CEO of a rival spirits company that may soon initiate overtures. 
 
 Brigadier, as Kapil Mohan was fondly called, cranked up the unwieldy system adeptly, establishing invincible dominance in one of the most regulated liquor market in the world.
 
 "He ran the company not just to profit as a businessman but also as a philanthropist. A lot of his army traits such as discipline and work ethics were embedded in the company," said M Baladitya, chairman of the board of administration at the Canteen Stores Department (CSD), which runs retail stores for the armed forces. "Both Old Monk and its beer brand Golden Eagle were by far the market leader many years ago at army canteen," he recalls.
 
 Before the turn of this century, Old Monk was such a powerful brand it almost operated outside the rum category. The classic serve Old Monk and cola became one of the country’s most familiar bar calls helping Mohan Meakin have a comfortable lead over competition.
 
 Like many homegrown brands – the liberalised 90s – saw nimbler competitors or deep pocket global rivals give Old Monk a bad hangover. Several strategic missteps – near exit from key southern markets amid lack of innovation and changes in government regulations – made life even more difficult.
 
 By early 2000s, the dark rum with a distinct vanilla flavour originally inspired by liquers made by European benediction monks -- was being overtaken by whiskey and brandy, while rival drinks were growing bigger. The latest data by IWSR shows rival McDowell’s No.1 (Celebration) Rum sold over 16 million cases in 2016, four times more than the Old Monk's 4 million number - albeit both declining from a year ago period.
 
 Experts say a host of factors led to the company's decline including complacency that resulted is mediocrity not in the product line but in the way it was being sold. "The company lost sight of the vision and an inconsistent and clumsy distribution strategy added to the woes. But the brand can be easily revived as the product itself has no problem at all," said a marketing head of a rival liquor company.
 
 Mohan Meakin has its own manufacturing facilities at  , Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, which cater to markets of North India. In all other areas, the company operates through a franchise arrangement with nearly two dozen bottlers and agents to maintain a pan-India presence.
 
 "Over the years, almost every liquor company must have approached them for acquisition. Many stopped doing that few years ago after realising the brand is just not up for sale," said Deepak Roy, vice-chairman at Allied Blenders and Distillers, maker of Officer’s Choice whisky, the country's largest liquor brand by volume. "The brand still has a global recognition but needs to re-invest in marketing and distribution."
 
 The company blame the downfall to changing regulations. "We were only available to the extent the single buyer wanted to buy in Uttar Pradesh," said Vinay referring to the monopoly of Ponty Chadha in the state. In several southern states including Tamil Nadu, the states took over liquor procurement and sales. And the result - volumes dipped to 0.5 million cases from 3.5 million cases earlier from states such as Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Half its sales vanished with just one regulation change, said the company. “Its not that people stopped drinking Old Monk one fine day. But how can I sell at south when the procurement rate of our brand is lower than my cost of production. I cannot sell at a loss,” added the 47-year old teetotaller throwing up his hands at the capricious nature of India’s business environment.
 
 
 
 Some issues linger on. For example, the company ran its own glass bottles factory for decades and the loss making unit dragged the overall company's bottlomline consistently. But Brigadier was reluctant to close the legacy operations before it was finally shut down in 2013.
 
 But there are bigger problems afoot. Mohan Meakin has only one hit brand among three dozen products that cuts across categories - from beer and brandy to whiskey and vodka. Old Monk carried nearly 80% of company’s sales for all these years, even when demand for the brand was fading.
 
 As luck would have it, the brothers’ personalities complement each other and there aren't enough room for skirmishes. Vinay, a teetotaller is in charge of sales in few states such as Maharashtra and non-alcohol portfolio, while Hemant, a detail-oriented gregarious blender, heads the overall operations. But the company needs two things - capital infusion in newer portfolio and patience - both in equal measure.
 
 Rivals, United Spirits and Bacardi which have many successful brands, sell their products at various price points and reach more buyers. Mohan Meakin hasn’t been able to match that with its focus mainly at the mass end.
 
 The grand old Brigadier’s old methods were restrictive but the brothers are convinced they can restore the jolly face of the tubby man that one sees on the Old Monk bottle will have the last laugh. 
 
