Kolkata: The state election commission (SEC) wrote a second time to the West Bengal government on Thursday calling for central forces for the peaceful conduct of upcoming rural  .

 Taking note of the continuing violence in district block offices, where candidates file nominations, the SEC made provisions for filling up forms at the SDO office. The development came hours before the Bengal opposition — BJP and Congress — moved the Supreme Court and the Calcutta High Court respectively with similar pleas.
 
 State election commissioner Amarendra Singh wrote to the government for forces following discussions with governor Keshari Nath Tripathi on Wednesday, despite the security plan prepared by ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma that doesn’t have space for central forces. 
 
 The SEC missive in fact came after a Trinamool team met Singh and asked him not to come under pressure from any quarters. The SEC also directed the administration to clamp Section 144 around 200 metres of block or sub-division offices. 
 
 Sources close to the development hinted the SEC wasn’t satisfied with the state’s security plan. “The state will provide 56,000 state police personnel plus 1.2 lakh civic volunteers to conduct the panchayat polls. But this force may not be adequate for the first phase, in which 12 districts of south Bengal are going to the polls,” a senior SEC official said.
 
 With Raj Bhavan, SEC and the opposition perceived to be on the same page over deployment of central forces, a high-power Trinamool delegation led by party secretary general Partha Chatterjee and panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee called on Tripathi at Raj Bhavan on Thursday in a bid to take the sting out of the opposition’s uproar over continuing violence and resistance from the ruling party supporters to opposition candidates filing their nominations.
 
 “We expressed our concern to the governor over the concerted bid by CPM, Congress and BJP to mislead Raj Bhavan. The fact is the opposition is ahead of Trinamool in filing nominations. To be precise, BJP is ahead of Trinamool in filing nominations for the zilla parishad seats. The opposition has filed nominations in 50.5% panchayat seats,” Chatterjee said, a day before Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra takes up the BJP’s “violence and resistance” plea on Friday.
 
 The Trinamool secretary general also spoke at length on the “misinformation” spread by BJP quarters accusing the ruling Trinamool of killing Ajit Murmu, the BJP candidate from Bankura’s Ranibandh. “The news hit headlines when the victim’s family claimed the day after he was a victim of BJP’s internal feud,” Chatterjee said to make light of the opposition’s furore over Trinamool violence. 
 
 “Let opposition move the courts of law. We will move the people’s court. We are confident that people will give a befitting reply to the opposition parties — CPM, Congress and BJP — that are hesitant to face the polls when Mamata Banerjee has taken the state on a development path. Let us hold peaceful and fair polls,” Chatterjee added. 
 
 The Bengal BJP has moved the Supreme Court seeking its intervention for allowing more time to file nominations for rural polls in view of the unabated violence and resistance faced by party workers. “We want a peaceful poll in the state and that seems impossible under the present situation...There is no other way left for us than to seek legal help,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh. 
 
 State Congress chief and MP Adhir Chowdhury, on the other hand, knocked on the doors of the high court in person on Thursday over deployment of central forces. He also called for deputing central observers in the rural polls. According to sources, BJP too might move the HC. “The court needs to take some step and direct central forces and officials for assistance till the polls are over,” Chowdhury said. 
 
 In his petition, the Congress leader sought fresh notification and extending the schedule of election. An HC division bench will hear the plea on Friday.
 
 
