Bengaluru: As Nipah scare grips the state with a suspected case in Mangaluru, the government hospitals across the state were instructed to set up isolated wards with separate staff as a precautionary measure.  In Bengaluru, Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Chest Diseases (RGICD), KC General Hospital and Victoria Hospital have set up isolated wards to take care of potential Nipah cases. RGICD director Dr C Nagaraja said the hospital will organise a special screening centre with four-five beds, separate doctors, nurses, physicians and a social worker. Some of the precautions which the doctors will be instructed to take include use of clean gloves and gowns as well as regular washing of hands with disinfectant. “As this is a condition with mainly neurological complications such as patients catching a fever, headache, unconsciousness and eventually going into a coma, they will require the assistance of a neurologist,” added Dr Nagaraja. It can be recalled that, it was RGICD which was taking care of the patient load during the influenza A (H1N1) outbreak in 2009, as the hospital specialises in treating respiratory disorders. But this time, the hospital says that Nipah virus infection is a neurological issue and hence it lacks expertise. “Due to lack of a neurological department at the hospital, if any suspect patient comes to our hospital, the initial treatment will be given and patient’s fluid samples can be collected and sent for testing, but the patients have to be referred to hospitals like Nimhans and Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, which have neurological departments,” said Dr Nagaraja. Dr R Bhanumurthy MS, medical superintendent, KC General Hospital, Malleshwaram said a three-bedded isolated ward is set up in the hospital to take care of Nipah-infected patients.  At Victoria Hospital too an isolated ward with four beds have been set up. “We are equipped with isolated ICU facility too for patients,” said doctors at Victoria Hospital.  No proven herbal medicine While there are messages making rounds in social media pertaining to certain herbal medicine prepared with parijatha leaves, the state health department on Tuesday said no such medicine has been proven to cure Nipah. “Such messages were spreading even during H1N1 and Ebola outbreaks. There is no medicine in allopathy for Nipah viral infection currently and no alternate medicine has been tested against the virus. For any clarity on the infection, public can call toll free number 104 Arogya Vani helpline and do not go by forwarded messages,” said health department officials. ‘Only one suspect from M’luru’: Dept On Wednesday, Dr B G Prakash Kumar told TOI that there was only one suspected case from Mangaluru. “A 20-year-old woman was suspected to be infected by Nipah virus and her body fluids were sent for tests to Manipal Centre for Virus Research (MCVR). She is recovering. Another person, a 75-year-old man, had a history of pneumonia and is not a Nipah viral infection suspect,” said Dr Prakash.  The results of the woman patient’s fluid sample tests must has to be confirmed by National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune, officials added. (With inputs from Sanjana Pai, Dhanyatha MJ, Aditi Pareek)