BENGALURU: Bengaluru may be a global IT hub, but its   don't accept soft copies of driving licences or insurance papers during drives to verify vehicle documents. This despite the many tech-based innovations Benglauru police claim to have pioneered in the country. 

  On Wednesday, Harsh   was stopped in   and fined Rs 500 for not carrying with him a hard copy of his insurance document. He alleged that he was assaulted by a policeman when he said he'd pay the fine online. "A cop fined me Rs 500 as I only had the soft copy of the insurance. When I told him I'd pay the fine online and not give cash, he hit me twice near the neck," he tweeted. 
 
  With thousands of technology professionals working in the city, it's quite common for citizens to be found carrying soft copies of documents such as Aadhaar, driving licence and voter card on their mobile phones. 
 
  "Can't we produce a soft copy in Silicon Valley? And don't we have 15 days' time to produce the hard copy if needed?" tweeted  , in reply to Shah's tweet. 
 
  According to Section 130 of the Motor Vehicles Act 1988, a defaulter gets 15 days to submit insurance documents, if the person does not possess them at the time of verification. 
 
  However in Shah's case, traffic police refused to budge. Replying to Shah, they tweeted, "It is compulsory to keep a hard copy of documents, and fines need to be paid on the spot, or else, you need to surrender your vehicle or DL, pay the fine in court, and then reclaim your vehicle or DL." They added that Shah's post regarding the assault had been forwarded to the Whitefield traffic inspector. 
 
  Transport commissioner B   said pictures of documents or those stored on email will be considered invalid. "Electronic media is vulnerable, so pictures of insurance or licence, or documents stored on email won't be accepted," he added. 
 
 DigiLocker the answer?
 
 DigiLocker, a central government app, could be the ideal option for motorists to keep soft copies of their personal documents, including licence, vehicle insurance and registration papers.
 
 Citizens could store their drivers’ licence and registration papers in DigiLocker, said transport commissioner B Dayananda.
 
 He, however, added: “The process of adding insurance documents to the app is under way. Since this is a central government scheme, documents stored in the app will have to be accepted by both the transport department and police. For this to happen, the state government will have to issue a notification, which it’ll do shortly.” An initiative of the central government, documents can be stored, shared and verified through the DigiLocker application.
 
 
