AHMEDABAD: Frustration could be sensed among senior police officers in the DGP office and the home department in Gandhinagar as no IPS officer from Gujarat was awarded the President’s Police medal on the occasion of Republic Day this year. This is the second time that Gujarat IPS officers have been ignored for the President’s medal for meritorious and distinguished service. 

 Sources in the home department said that the names of 10 IPS officers — IPS officer  , IGP  , Vadodara CP Manoj Shashidhar, DIG Archana Shivhare, Additional DGP Anil Pratham, Junagadh range IGP Rajkumar Pandian, Additional DGP KK Oza, IGP AK Jadeja , DIG   and DIG Mayanksinh Chavda — were sent by the state government to the Union ministry of home affairs for consideration. (Incidentally, Pandian has been discharged from the Sohrabuddin Shaikh encounter case.)
 
 According to top sources in the home department, only nine police personnel of the rank of police sub-inspector and below were selected for the honours. Sources said the IPS officers who were recommended by the state government had even tried to find out the reason why they were not selected for the honours. Sources in the state government said that the names of IPS officers are recommended by the state government to   after proper scrutiny of ACR (annual confidential report) and vigilance clearance by the state government.
 
 “The Union Home Ministry then does two or three levels of its own scrutiny. After that, the Union home secretary with 7-8 other DGP-rank officers decide the names after clearance given by the Intelligence Bureau,” said a source. Home department officials said the new rules notified this time could be the reason behind no Gujarat IPS officer getting the President’s medal. “The minimum service period required has been raised from 15 years to 20 years,” an official in the state home department said. “Secondly, only 50% of the IPS officers inducted into the police force within five years will get the honours. Lastly, medical fitness of the officer. This requires that the officer fulfill certain medical and health criteria,” the official said.
 
 
