NASHIK: The industrial fraternity of   and Jalgaon has welcomed the new summer schedule of   announced by Director General of   (DGCA). 

 Nashik businessmen are elated that in the new schedule the Mumbai-bound flight from Nashik would depart in the mornings enabling them to reach Mumbai by 7am. Now, they would have ample time to complete their business and return by the evening flight on the same day. It takes over four hours to reach Mumbai from Nashik if one chooses to go by road.
 
 Similarly, the Jalgaon business fraternity said starting of the new Jalgaon-Pune flight would enable them to reach in Pune in just one-and-half hours unlike the eight hours by road. This will also give boost to Jalgaon's industrial sector.
 
 Air Deccan, which started its flights from Nashik from December 2017, had suspended its Maharashtra operations since March 17 due to operational reasons. The airline company has said it would restart its operations by mid-April.
 
 Currently, the flights from Nashik to Mumbai used to leave at 11.55am owing to unavailability of slots at Mumbai airport. And a major section of city's industrial fraternity refrained from travelling by air to Mumbai since they hardly got any time to complete their work in the state capital.
 
 Chairman of infrastructure committee of Nashik Industries and Manufacturers' Association ( )   said afternoon flight from Nashik to Mumbai was inconvenient and was of no use.
 
 "As per the new schedule, the flights would be available at 6am making it extremely convenient for city businessmen to travel by air to Mumbai. We had been demanding the morning flight for Mumbai so that businessmen may do their business work throughout the day and return in the evening by the same flight," Rawal said.
 
 Moreover, the departures of large number of domestic flights from Mumbai airport are scheduled after 8am. "Hence, morning flight will help Nashik residents to catch other domestic flights from Mumbai airport if they travel by Air Deccan in the morning," Rawal added.
 
 
