Nagpur: People praise great people like   but forget their ideologies. Today, some elements are trying to show that Gandhi and Ambedkar worked in opposite directions, which is not a reality. In fact, they worked in tandem which was understood well by Deshmukh, the first agriculture minister of the country, and he made efforts in that direction from the word go, said senior journalist Sanjay Awate on Tuesday.

 These leaders, coupled with former prime minister Nehru ideas, believed that citizens are the backbone of the nation and that they should be nurtured well, Awate said, while delivering a lecture on ‘Relevance of thoughts of Panjabrao Deshmukh. Panjabrao was a leader of the masses and formulated policies for prosperity of agriculture, he added.
 
 The lecture was organized jointly by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Adhyayan Kendra of Dhanwate National College and Shivaji Science College to mark Deshmukh’s 53rd memorial day. Shrikant Tidke, former principal of Shri Gadgebaba College, Murtijapur, was the other keynote speaker.
 
 Speaking on ‘Philosophy of Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh and Gadgebaba and today’s reality’, Tidke said “Maharashtra will never face adverse situations as people are well aware of the lofty ideals of Deshmukh and preachings of sant Gadgebaba who was a staunch supporter of education, eradication of superstition and social reforms.
 
 Tidke said Deshmukh and Gadgebaba were social reformers who faced extreme hardships but brought about unbelievable changes in the society. It is therefore, the duty of the society to continue their legacy for prosperity.
 
 PS Changole, acting principal of Dhanwate National College said Deshmukh followed the footsteps of Chhatrapati Shivaji who was extra careful about improving the farmers’ lot. 
 
 A book containing sixteen lectures delivered by various speakers on his memorial day was also released.
 
 Dilip Ingole, treasurer of Shri Shivaji Shikshan Sanstha, Amravati, Hemant Kalmegh and DK Burghate, principal of Shivaji Science College, were present.
 
 
