You wake up, and even before you get out of bed, what’s the first thing you do to start your day? That’s right, check your smartphone. Such is the reliance on smartphones,  ,   and the many   on it, that using them has become a habit, rather than a necessity (did you know smartphone users touch their device screens 2,617 a day?). It’s affecting human interactions, and causing not just physical harm, but anxiety and stress too (time to read up on nomophobia). The solution?  . And it’s on the rise.
Youngsters like 26-year-old brand consultant,  , have been consciously disconnecting themselves from technology. “I felt the need for a detox when I started using my phone a lot just so people won’t complain that I don’t reply often. It’s unfortunate that the expectation to be available at all times, be it by friends or colleagues, is so high. So when I went cold turkey and cut myself away from technology, it made such big difference, especially about how I’m aware of how important it is to moderate my smartphone use.”
 So how exactly does one go about pulling off a digital detox?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Making lists is a great way to assess and implement new habits. For detoxing digitally, make two lists — one of all of your gadgets and the amount of time you spend on them, and two, of all the things that you enjoy doing, but aren’t doing presently. That will give you an idea of which gadgets you can spend lesser time on, and which activity you can replace them with.
 
 
 
 There are some apps that you use occasionally, and some you are on a lot — so much that you find yourself checking them not because you feel the need for it, but more as a habit. Take your biggest time suck and remove it from your phone.
 
 
 
 By restricting the time you spend using technology, you will feel more in control of the devices, and not vice versa. One of the best ways to achieve that is by establishing a maximum daily time allowance for your devices. You will be more likely to stick to your detox this way.
 
 
 
 Do you enjoy it when someone you love gives you their undivided attention? Of course you do! So how about reciprocating the same, without the distractions of your phone and its umpteen notifications? The more we hang out and spend quality time with others, the deeper our bonds.
 
 
 
 Everything becomes a lot easier when you know you aren’t the only one attempting something absurd. When you have someone else who shares your struggles and is willing to go through the digital detox process, you feel more comfortable attempting hard tasks like this. What are best friends for, after all?
 
 
 
 As much as we’d like to deny, we know that there are notification that we could very much do away with. Agreed, completely eliminating social media from our lives is a tough task, but that doesn’t mean you need to know every time someone comments or goes live online — lesser the notifications, lesser the temptation to check apps constantly.
 
 
 
 Remember what a phone looked like about 15 years ago, with facilities to call, text, play the snake game and nothing more? They served the purpose, and they did it well. Staying connected doesn’t have to happen 24x7, like it is in today’s time. It’s about being there when someone really needs your help, advice or company, and spending the rest of the time investing time in yourself, doing what you love.
 
 
 
 Social media and smartphone addiction is something that’s very new to us, and we’re using our own trial and error methods to see what works for us in reducing our dependence on them. There are going to be times when we give in to the temptation or habit, or feel overwhelmed by staying away from it. Just remember, it’s alright to feel that. The first step to solving a problem is accepting you have one. Once you do, the rest will automatically follow. So, happy detoxing!
 
