 is a serial that is among the highest rated on Kannada  , thus catapulting leading man   to much fame. Needless to say, Skanda has endeared himself to audiences with his act including outings in Sandalwood. And while he pursues marital bliss on screen, Skanda will soon tread on the same route off screen, too.
 “Yes, I will be tying the knot on May 30,” says the actor, breaking the news to Bangalore Times. And the girl in question is  , his lady love of four-and-a-half-years. “In fact, the two of us got engaged in the second week of April and it was a close-knit affair in Chikmagalur where I hail from,” says Skanda. The actor’s love life has for long piqued the curiosity of fans and the actor says that it’s been purely to protect the privacy of his lady love.
  “I have never shied away from acknowledging her presence in my life; I don’t believe in hiding love. We have never said no to even fans when they have spotted us in public. But when things have got too close for comfort, I’ve protected her,” explains Skanda.
  So how did the two meet? “A couple of years ago, I was the chief guest at a popular girls’ college in the city and she was pursuing business management at the same institution. I saw her at the event and our eyes met. I was smitten by her instantly. Later, we realised we had many common friends and I spared no efforts in getting to know her further. Shika is a lovely girl and the one who I’ve always dreamt of as a life partner. Yes, we had some convincing to do with our parents, but I’m happy everything has fallen in place perfectly,” says Skanda.
  Shika is now into fashion designing and does his costumes for off-screen appearances. There is a notion that heroes generally tend to avoid talking about their lady loves in public owing to an impact on their female fan following, but Skanda prefers to differ. “I would like to give our audiences more credit than that. I think that notion has changed now and their focus is on our onscreen turnout than off screen. I am in love and will be tying the knot with my lady and need their good wishes. My onscreen life will continue as before,” sums up Skanda.
