There are approximately 10,000 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the city. But most of these cameras are of little use in detecting night crimes as they are low in quality with poor visuals, leaving the police clueless. Residents buy cheaper   cameras out of compulsion from the police that renders useless. Though the CCTV cameras had captured images of suspects, the police could not identify even the type of motorcycles they drive, let alone registration numbers and faces of the suspects during night hours. A case in point is the recent torching of BJP functionary’s car. Even after going through 200 CCTV footages, some of them showing the suspects in action, the images did not help police.

 In the wee hours of March 21, two unidentified people poured petrol on the rear side of a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and a scooter belonging to a businessman at   in   and set them on fire. One of them was wearing helmet and another person was keeping a hat to cover their faces. 
 
 Immediately, they left the place and travelled to   in Peelamedu on a motorcycle. They also poured petrol on the front side of a SUV belonging to BJP district president CR Nandhakumar and set the vehicle on fire. 
 
 “The incident is recorded in a CCTV fixed in the portico of Nandhakumar’s house. When we checked the CCTV footage, it was of poor quality and poor visuals. The footage is completely in green colour and we could not identity the suspects. Businessman Umapathi from Indira Nagar has also fixed CCTV cameras in the portico of his house. But they were not functioning and we collected the footage from neighbours’ houses,” said S Lakshmi, deputy commissioner of police (law & order), Coimbatore city.
 
 The city police formed two special teams led by assistant commissioners of police   and D Suresh to crack the two cases. According to sources, the two special teams have collected more than 200 CCTV footages, mostly from the Internet Protocol (IP) cameras fixed on traffic signals. “Due to the head lamps of the motorcycle belonging to the two suspects, the CCTV cameras could not record the registration numbers and type of motorcycles. So, the special teams were not able to fix the suspects in connection with the two cases for the last 10 days,” said a senior police officer.
 
 He said CCTV cameras fixed atop traffic signals should be upgraded. They would not be able to trace any registration numbers of the motorcycles or cars and type of vehicles using the present cameras. 
 
 Area sales manager of Envision Network Technologies Private Limited Vinothkumar Swamy told TOI: “Police should install Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) cameras in vital places in the city and the cameras should be fixed in the pole of at least two to three feet height. Then only it can detect the number plates of the vehicles.” 
 
 “IP cameras with five mega pixels or speed dome cameras should be fixed atop of the traffic signals and it would help them to view the quality of footage. Whenever power outage is there, the CCTV cameras won’t function. Police can use solar CCTV cameras. They don’t need to depend on electricity,” said Vinothkumar.
 
 He added that residents should use HD camera with two mega pixels in their residences or commercial establishments. All the cameras have infrared facilities and it can record during the night hours also. 
 
 Honorary secretary of Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore (RAAC) R Raveendran said many people buy houses for Rs 2 crore but they spend only Rs 5,000 for fixing CCTV cameras in their residences. They should fix CCTV cameras with high quality. Sometimes, it will also help the police for investigation, he added.
 
 
