VADODARA: A 44-year-old accountant working with   was found dead under   in his car outside   late on Tuesday night. 

 The deceased Harish Rana was found by his son Rishi and his friend after they searched for him as he had not returned home from work till late. Police sources said Rishi and his friend first went to Parul University to inquire about him. But the security guard told him that Rana had left in the afternoon. Meanwhile, his brother Shailesh was also searching for him in the city.
 
 When Rishi was returning home, he saw his father’s car parked outside gate 2 of Sayajibaug. Rishi then broke open the lock of the car and found him lying unconscious. When he took him to a nearby private hospital, the doctor declared him dead on admission. 
 
 When Shailesh reached the hospital, he insisted that a postmortem be conducted as there were some injury marks on his knees and hand while the skin on his back was completely peeled off.
 
 Police officials said that according to doctors, who conducted the post-mortem, primarily it seems that Rana died of heart attack. However, samples of his viscera have been sent to FSL to know the exact reason behind his death.
 
 When TOI contacted Shailesh, he said that his brother was under immense pressure at workplace and he had written an eight-page letter, photos of which were found from Rana’s phone. The original letter which has his signature at the end has not been found yet.
 
 In the letter, Rana has made several serious allegations against the university. He has alleged that the university admits two to three students more than the permitted number. The letter also stated that the university has created hoax staff whose attendance are marked by Rana and these employees come to university only at the time of inspection. 
 
 The university also deletes entries of fee received from its system after giving receipts to students, he has alleged.
 
 Rana has also alleged that the university forges scholarship documents to increase the cost so that it can get increase in fee by regulation committee. It has also been alleged that the university credits salary to its employees as promised and then takes cheques in return as donation towards Parul Sevashram Trust.
 
 In response to the allegations, Dr Devanshu Patel, president of the university told TOI that Rana was in the Ayurveda college where the staff’s attendance is registered through biometric and that is linked to Aadhar card. “We submit our accounts to regulation committee for deciding the fees and they even talk to our staff so there is no question of irregularities,” said Patel. On admitting more number of students than permitted number, Patel said that the admissions are scrutinized by the admission committee and every student admitted is registered with the concerned regulatory council.
 
 “We take donations from staff members for trust in cheques and there is no compulsion. We take undertaking from them and proper documents are maintained,” he said regarding compulsory donations from employees.
 
 “Couple of months back a harassment complaint was made against Rana by a student of Ayurveda college after which we transferred him to administration section. He was not happy there as he had been in Ayurveda college for several years, therefore we believe that to avenge that he must have written the letter,” Patel said.
 
 
