The BJP central leadership assured its state unit on Tuesday of coming out with a solution to the   issue with Union minister Nitin Gadkari planning to visit the state, while party president Amit Shah gave a commitment to resolve the problem.

 “He (Gadkari) will give us a date in the next four to five days (to come to Goa),” PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, who was part of the delegation that met the Union ministers, including Gadkari and mines minister Narendra Tomar, told TOI.
 
 Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who was also part of the delegation, separately met Shah along with other MPs from Goa—Narendra Sawaikar and Vinay Tendulkar—and said his party president has assured them that he would consult all stakeholders to resolve the issue, and if need be take it up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Stating that that mining leases will be auctioned, Dhavalikar told TOI that the delegation briefed the Union ministers on how the stoppage would affect the state’s economy and its people.
 
 On Tuesday, one delegation comprising Naik, Rajya Sabha MP and BJP state president Vinay Tendulkar, Lok Sabha MP Narendra Sawaikar, Dhavalikar, and speaker Pramod Sawant met Gadkari and Tomar, while another comprising only the state’s parliamentarians met Shah.
 
 At the meeting with Shah, which lasted for around 10 minutes, Naik said they presented three options, one of which was to file a review petition in the Supreme Court post the stoppage of mining operations in the state on March 15.
 
 The Ayush minister said that another option the delegation presented Shah was that the Centre issue an ordinance to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concession (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to allow mining to continue after March 15.
 
 Naik also presented a third option. “As per Section 8A (vi) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 2015, there is a provision to continue mining by those leases which are not renewed till 2020, and that should be implemented in Goa,” Naik said. He said that if the Centre agrees to any of these propositions, there will be time to think of the next course of action.
 
 Naik made it clear that the delegation did not go to New Delhi to represent mining companies, but the around two lakh people who are dependant on mining in Goa. When asked if Shah would speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the issue, Naik said that Shah would first consult ministers and other stakeholders, and only then, as a final resort, would he speak to Modi.
 
 Early last month, the Supreme Court quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases in the state and directed the state government to stop all mining activities on March 15. Chief minister Manohar   had said that he would find a solution to the mining problem within six months, and that iron ore transportation would continue till the end of the season.
 
 Last week, an all-party delegation led by PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar had gone to New Delhi, but failed to get any assurance on the issue.
 
 
