NEW DELHI: The ministry of home affairs has removed three districts in   from the list of 106 left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts, which used to receive central assistance as part of security related expenditure (SRE) for counter-insurgency operations. 

 Sources said no Naxal violence has been reported in Anantapur, Kurnool and Prakasam for a very long time, hence it was decided "security assistance fund from   is no more required." "The CRPF deployment now in these districts is also almost zero, while West   has been added for the first time in this list," said a senior MHA officer.
 
 Union minister for state of home Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, while replying to a question in   on Tuesday, stated the SRE districts have been reviewed and six districts of Andhra Pradesh - East Godavari, Guntur Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam, Vizinagaram and West Godavari will be covered under SRE scheme from April 1, 2018.
 
 West Godavari has been added among LWE affected states for the first time, said sources. Earlier, eight districts of Andhra Pradesh were receiving the grant.
 
 According to the MHA, Andhra Pradesh reported 66 incidents of Naxal violence in 2009, which has come down to 26 in 2017. Not a single incident has yet been reported in 2018.
 
 As part of a multi-prolonged strategy, the ministry of home affairs implements various schemes such as SRE, assistance to central agencies for LWE management, special infrastructure scheme (SIS) along with construction of 250 fortified police stations, media plan, civic action program and special central assistance (SCA) for 35 worst LWE affected districts.
 
 The SRE scheme is extended to a total of 106 districts in 10 states including Bihar, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Telangana, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and  . The funds are given for recurring expenditure relating to operational and training needs of security forces, including the expenditure incurred for the rehabilitation of surrendered LWE cadres.
 
 Under the scheme, central government had disbursed Rs 575.22 crore between 2011 and 2014; Rs 675.73 crore between 2014 and 2017, while maximum Rs 445 crore was released in 2017-18 financial year.
 
 
