Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
Emraan Hashmi’s fans in the city can rejoice as the ' ' actor will begin shooting for his next, 'Cheat India', in Lucknow soon. Directed by ' ' director  , the film’s shooting is expected to begin from mid-July and go on till end of August. "We are going to conduct a recce in the city from today and will be looking at various locations to shoot the film," says  , one of the producers of the film. 
 The film is inspired by real incidents featuring fictional characters. "Our film explores the crime and corruption in the India educations system," says Garg, adding, "It's a whole parallel system infested with mafia now, that’s what our film will talk about."
 A major portion of the film will be shot in and around Lucknow and what’s even better is that all the supporting cast in the film will be from UP. "We have deliberately decided to cast local actors as they will bring in authenticity in our project. The film and its characters should feel real so it makes sense to get a local supporting cast," says Garg, who's looking for actors and amateurs aged between 16-65 for the film. "We will begin auditions for the supporting cast from next week onwards," he adds. 
 
  
    (Left) with Tanuj Garg
 
 
 On why the team chose to shoot in Lucknow, Garg says, “We chose Lucknow for various reasons. One that UP is truly the representative of the Hindi heartland and it’s a very rooted film. It’s a film of the soil. Secondly, a lot of films have been shot in UP lately, and I think the people who are working for filmmakers, the technicians, the artistes, the hospitality providers, have all started getting a very good handle of the film culture and the way films are shot. So therefore that makes it easy for us filmmakers. Also the UP Film policy is fairly competitive and proves to make film shooting in UP very cost effective. So that’s another big advantage. Though I really hope that, like a lot of other states, UP would make shootings at public locations free of cost as these locations showcase the state. But as I said, they have a very effective film policy which also makes shooting a film here very attractive,” says Garg. 
 
