HYDERABAD: With some junior colleges commencing classes less than a week after the   ( ) announced summer vacations for intermediate students, the board has begun slapping them with show-cause notices for failing to follow its order.

 BIE officials said that action had already been initiated against 15 colleges in the city for conducting classes for students, who gave their intermediate first-year examinations a few days back.
 
 “We are not stopping colleges from conducting classes for outgoing students, who will be appearing for competitive exams in April and May. But taking advantage of this, many colleges have begun conducting classes for students who gave their intermediate firstyear exams too,” said  , district inspection education officer (DIEO),  , adding that they have identified 10 errant colleges in the past two days, two of which were issued show cause notices.
 
 According to BIE officials, they have received over 50 complaints and are carrying out raids at junior colleges across the city. “I have received 15 complaints since February 29 and have issued four show cause notices to two corporate colleges and a couple of private colleges after inspecting their premises,” said B Jayaprada Bai, DIEO, Hyderabad.
 
 They said they have called up managements and principals of colleges under their jurisdiction and warned them about the consequences of conducting classes during summer vacations.
 
 “In most colleges, the managements are in favour of closing for summer break, but principals want to continue with classes. We have already made telephone calls and instructed managements to not conduct any classes. We are now visiting inter colleges daily and sending students back home. We have also issued several show cause notices,” said Venka Nayak, DIEO, Ranga Reddy, under whose jurisdiction most of the intermediate colleges fall.
 
 On March 28, BIE declared commencement of summer vacations for all government, aided, unaided and private junior colleges from March 29. And although BIE officials said the situation is much better, as compared to previous years, for many intermediate students summer vacations are still a distant dream.
 
