Quepem: A Rs 6-crore road   project from Karalli to Tilamoll on the Margao-Curchorem highway, which has been already sanctioned by the government, has run into a hurdle with local residents expressing concern over the fate of houses along the stretch.

 Quepem MLA and opposition leader Chandrakant ‘Babu’  , who is pursuing the project, called a   with citizensin the municipal hall on Thursdayafternoon to discuss the issue of broadening both sides of the   by a metre.
 
 Kavlekar told the residents that the widening is urgently required due to increasing traffic, as the road is very narrow from Quepem police station to the town. “I will commence the work only after taking residents into confidence,” Kavlekar said.
 
 The government provides Rs 28 crore for PWD related works every financial year, including Rs 25 crore for planned work and Rs 3 crore for unplanned works.
 
 Local councillor Amol Kanekar suggested widening the road by two metres to fully resolve the problem, but residents strongly opposed the one-metre broadening saying that some houses will be affected.
 
 Resident Victor Diniz said that one- or two-metre road widening will not solve the problem and requested the MLA to place a proposal for a bypass road before the assembly session for a one-time solution.
 
 Another resident called for a blueprint of the plan to assess how many structures as well as underground pipelines will be affected due to the widening.
 
 Agreeing with the residents suggestion, Kavlekar requested the QMC chairperson Raul Pereira to prepare the plan and promised to hold another meeting within 15 days.
 
 Quepem residents also demanded for a complete ban on coal mining transportation through Quepem town, failing which they threatened to launch a mass agitation and to march to the assembly during the upcoming assembly session. 
 
 At present, trucks carrying coal ply from Vasco to Curchorem due to which the area see accidents and increased dust pollution.
 
 MLA and chairperson Raul Pereira told locals that QMC will support the complete ban and assured to come on roads along with people if the government failed to listen to their demand.
 
 
