Nearly 20 years have passed since Ambattur resident S Suresh, 57, applied for a water connection. But he is still awaiting  . Three years ago, after Metrowater provided Suresh a water connection to his home in Thiruvengadam Street, he spent Rs 2 lakh to construct a pipeline and a sump tank to store water supposed to be provided by Metrowater.

 Added areas of the city continue to suffer from lack of water supply due to delay in completion of water supply projects. According to Metrowater data, projects have been completed in only 12 of the 42 added areas. Ambattur falls under the list of areas where residents are being supplied water. But locals complain that Metrowater has not started supply despite providing connections.
 
  
 Water supply projects in the added areas commenced in the early 2000s, well before the erstwhile local bodies were brought under   in 2011. Work on the projects has not gathered steam even after the local bodies merged with the city, forcing residents to depend on private water tankers for their daily needs.
 
 As per the schedule laid out by Metrowater, all water supply projects must have been completed more than a year ago.
 
 A Metrowater official said, “Work on laying underground pipelines is under progress in several added areas. This will be completed by the end of the year. The remaining work will be taken up next year and completed by 2020.”
 
 Of the 650 million litres per day (MLD) provided by Metrowater, barely 50MLD reaches the added areas falling under Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Tondiarpet, Sholinganallur and Perungudi zones where groundwater has turned salty and unfit for consumption.
 
 Ambattur resident Suresh, who serves as the general secretary Federation of Ambattur Residents Welfare Associations said, “In 2000, I paid Rs 7,500 for a water connection to then Ambattur municipality. Most recently, we were promised water supply from January. Repeated complaints to local Metrowater authorities have not helped.”
 
 In Perungudi (zone 14), work on laying underground water pipelines has been languishing for more than five years.
 
 Homes in these areas receive two pots of water on alternate days through Metrowater’s tankers.
 
 Perungudi resident V Karthikeyan said, “Until 2004, local bodies around Perungudi received supply from the Perungudi lake. But local politicians have cut off supply from the lake and forced us to depend on water tankers.”
 
 In Alandur (zone 12), underground pipelines laid during the tenur of former chief minister M G Ramachandran were replaced in 2011 at Rs 67 crore.
 
 However, work was completed only in 800 out of the 885 streets where work was proposed to be taken up, leaving 85 streets in the neighbourhoods of Pazhavanthangal without piped connections.
 
 Even Alandur residents who have piped connections complain that Metrowater supply has been erratic.
 
 Nanganallur resident and People’s Awareness Association secretary Rama Rao said, “Metrowater’s supply has dwindled by half in the past few weeks.”
 
 
