CHENNAI: A departmental inquiry has been ordered into the action of three traffic police personnel, including a woman, after a video showing them beating up a woman and her son who they had caught for not wearing a helmet and for triple riding in T Nagar on Monday evening went viral. 

  Trouble began when the three road sub-inspectors (RSIs) stopped   resident M  , 21, in front of a textile showroom on Usman Road as he was not wearing a helmet and was travelling on a bike with his mother  , 48, and younger sister. As the law enforcers asked him to pay the stipulated fine of 100 for the violation, Prakash, witnesses told the police later, began taking a video of the incident on his mobile phone. 
 
 The witnesses said that one of the police personnel grabbed Prakash's phone and switched off the video mode before a heated argument ensued between them. The video shot by a bystander showed the sub-inspector holding Prakash firmly from behind and the latter tearing off the officer's rank epaulette (ribbon) from his shoulder.
 
 It also showed Sangeetha crying out and seeking help from the huge crowd of onlookers. The woman is then seen trying to stop her son from being taken away by the police personnel to a vehicle parked at the spot. One of the sub-inspectors, while trying to separate Sangeetha from her son, is seen attacking her and shoving her aside. The other law enforcers too joined in and while some witnesses told the police that one of the three RSIs even kicked Sangeetha, the video evidence is not very clear. 
 
 The T Nagar police registered a case against Prakash under   sections 294 (b) (uttering obscene words in a public place), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 427 (Mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees). A court later sent him to prison. 
 
 Though the three police personnel involved claimed they had not done anything unlawful to the arrested man and his mother, the video clip widely circulated on social media and the   camera footage from a nearby showroom exposed their attack as well as the violation committed by Prakash. 
 
 As the video clip went viral, condemnations poured in from every quarter. Activist and lawyer S Karthikeyan said that even if the woman involved in Monday’s incident had committed a wrong, the personnel attached to the uniformed services had to follow a certain decorum. “They could have even slapped a case against the woman for her improper behaviour,” he said. Resorting to violence is condemnable, he added.
 
 Others said that while the youth involved in the incident was definitely in the wrong, the police personnel had no business doing what they did. They had to show restraint no matter what the provocation was, they said.
 
 DMK Rajya Sabha member Kanimozhi also condemned what she called the barbaric act of traffic policemen beating up a youth and his mother. Recalling the incident in which a driver resorted to self-immolation on Old Mahabalipuram Road and the death of a pregnant woman in Trichy, both involving traffic policemen, Kanimozhi said, “Who gave the right to the police to attack traffic violators in such a brutal manner?”
 
 A senior traffic police officer said the top brass was seized of the matter. “We have ordered a departmental inquiry into the issue and submit a detailed report. An assistant commissioner of police has been tasked wioth the job,” he said. Monday’s incident is just one of the incidents the city traffic police have been involved in of late, portraying their policing tactics in bad light.
 
 
