THRISSUR: The latest edition of   Pooram, which began in early hours of Wednesday, once again demonstrated why this 220-year-old festival still retains its splendour and excitement. A huge crowd transcending all barriers converged at the   and surrounding areas of the city to witness the events associated with Pooram. 

 The 36-hour-long festival offers a combination of scintillating percussion ensembles, magnificent procession of caparisoned elephants, spectacular exchange of parasols and a fireworks display.
  
  
 In all 10 temples participate in the festival, but two of them   and   lead the event. But the level of participation of all 10 temples, including their schedules and the scale of excitements they can offer like the number of elephants to be used by them, are well defined. Most leading percussion artists participate in Pooram and many majestic elephants are also paraded here.
 
 The festival began formally with the entry of the procession from Kanimangalam Sastha Temple through the southern gate of  . The processions of all other participating temples also entered the temple through this gate. The processions from Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu temples also were held almost simultaneously. Madathil Varavu, the major procession of Thiruvambady side began around 11.30am and the panchavadyam concert was led by Kongad Madhu, while elephant Thiruvambady Chandrasekharan carried the Thidambu.
  
  
 
 The scintillating Ilanjithara Melam concert of Paramekkavu was led by legendary percussionist Peruvanam Kuttan Marar and 300 artistes. The Thidambu of Paramekkavu was being carried by Guruvayur Nandan as the regular elephant Padmanabhan had developed musth.
 
 Pooram excitement reached its crescendo during kudamattam at 5.30pm and law enforcers had a tough time controlling fans as they tried to break barricades and get close to the elephants.
 
 CM Pinarayi Vijayan, agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, DGP Loknath Lokanth Behera were among those present to watch the event. Kudamattam marked the conclusion of the daytime events of Pooram. Union minister Alphons Kannanthanam was also there to see Pooram.
  
  
 
 The processions of all temples will be repeated at night and the much-awaited fireworks display will be held early on Thursday. Thiruvambady and Paramekkavu sides will conduct another round of procession on Thursday and Pooram will conclude with the 'bidding farewell' ritual on Thursday noon. 
 
 Police had made elaborate security arrangements to ensure the smooth conduct of the festival by deploying over 3,500 personnel. Apart from the numerous festivities and massive crowd, a refreshing aspect of Pooram is its secular dimension with people belonging to different religious beliefs actively contributing to its success.
 
