PUNE: Taps ran dry in most houses in the heart of the city and the rest received water supply at a low pressure on Saturday, a day after a gate installed at the water storage tank near Janata Vasahat crashed on Friday afternoon.

 The efforts to remove the gate continued for almost 30 hours, after which the water supply was restored on Saturday evening.
 
 The snag affected 7-8 lakh people. Taps rans dry in most Peth areas as well as in localities along Prabhat Road and Sinhagad Road up to Rajaram bridge.
 
  
 Officials in the PMC’s water supply and pumping department stressed that crashing of the gate was a rare incident. It was probably for the first time it happened at the water tank having a capacity of about 3 crore litres of water, supplied to the city’s low-lying areas.
 
 The gate is installed inside the water tank to stop the supply of water to the pipeline during maintenance. It is about 60 years old.
 
 V G Kulkarni, the head of the water supply department, said, “The problem has been rectified as of now. Water supply will be resumed at normal pressure by Sunday morning in most areas. A team and machinery were deployed to remove the crashed gate installed inside the tank.”
 
 Residents were left fuming as they did not get water at adequate pressure for the third consecutive day. The water supply was shut on Thursday for repair and maintenance works. The water flow resumed at a low pressure on Friday, when the gate crashed.
 
 Another official in the water supply department said, “The gate installed at the tank was pulled down on Thursday to stop the water supply. On Friday, it was pulled up to restore the supply. But it crashed in the afternoon, following which water supply from the tank got disrupted. The gate weighs around one tonne.”
 
 The official said the gate had been removed from its position and would be re-installed after a few days. “There is no need to replace the gate because it is in a good condition. We will check its pulleys and other technical parts to re-fix it. For this, the department will probably have to plan a water closure. The details will be worked out and announced,” he said.
 
 Mayor Mukta Tilak visited the spot and took stock of the situation on Friday evening. She told the officials to expedite the restoration work.
 
 
