

 If the recent shaadis in Jaipur are anything to go by, we can say that the groom's traditional entry on a ghori has become a passe. Grooms from the city, as well as those from outside getting married in Jaipur in destination weddings, are following some really cool and contemporary ideas to make a dhamakedar entry on their D-day, the most popular being making an entry on an ATV (All-Terrain Vehicle). In December 2016, cricketer   had made a grand entry to his wedding venue on a 4x4 ATV. And it seems that in  , the grooms are going the Yuvi way, cruising their way to their shaadi venues on their ATVs. And not just on the wedding day itself, some men make ATV entries at ceremonies like the sangeet, and many have their brides sitting next to them, for that extra impact. And sometimes, there is a desi twist to the tale with grooms entering venues on tractors instead of horses!
 
 
 
 Rahul Dadhich, a wedding planner in Jaipur tells us that inclusion of ATVs in weddings in the new trend that has caught the fancy of the grooms and their families. “Ditching the traditional style of making an entry on a horse, grooms are opting for cooler ways to make their way to the venue. Usually, the groom keeps sitting on a horse while the baraatis dance and have all the fun. But now, the groom too wants to have fun and make an impactful entry. ATVs have become quite popular, thanks to Yuvraj Singh. Last month, at the two destination weddings that we organised in Jaipur, the grooms entered the venue riding on ATVs.” 
 
  
  Yuvraj Singh's dhamakedar entry has inspired many in Jaipur
 
 
 He adds, “The rental for such ATVs starts from `20,000. We mostly hire them for three-four hours. There are two types of ATVs that are available on rent, 200 cc and 500 cc ATVs. The latter category has two seats side by side. Also, at one of the weddings that we organised, the groom made an entry on a well-decorated tractor. Going by the demands, I can say that grooms these days are not settling for anything ordinary.”
 
 Rahul Gaur, another city-based wedding planner, shares with us, “Just like brides, grooms are also making sure that they enter the shaadi pandals with a bang. Horses, elephants and vintage cars are now passé. ATVs, segways are the new cool thing at weddings." Rahul adds, " Also, instead of just riding an ATV, we suggest the grooms opt for ATVs with cold pyro fireworks attached to it. This makes their entry more interesting and adds a lot of drama to their special day.”
 
 
 
 Shardul Pathak, a Jaipur-based groom who recently got married, says, “Both of us – my wife Priyanshi and I – are against cruelty to animals. Thus, I didn’t want to make an entry on a horse or an elephant. And a vintage car is too cliché. Being an adventurous person, I thought of riding an ATV. I kept it a surprise and only my parents and a few close friends knew about this. It was definitely fun riding it.” 
 
  
  Shardul Pathak (right) with his parents on his D-day
 
 
 And not just Shardul, but even his father rode an ATV along with him at the wedding. “We called ourselves ATV baraatis,” he says.
 
 
 
 Priyam Marurka, who's based in Kolkata, had a destination wedding in Jaipur. Priyam made a similar entry like Shardul but the only difference was that he entered the venue with his bride as his pillion rider. “I have driven an ATV before in Dubai. However, the idea struck when I saw a picture on the internet of a groom riding an ATV to his wedding venue. I shared this idea with my bride and she loved it. However, instead of coming alone, we decided that we would make an entry together. This was for our sangeet function.” He adds, “The concept was new for all the guests and they loved it. It was one of the highlights of our sangeet function.”
 
  
  Priyam Marurka with his wife
 
 
 Aashish Kadel from the United Kingdom too followed the same trend at his destination wedding in the Pink City. Aashish’s ATV was a little different from others', he made an entry on an ATV at his sangeet which had two seats side by side. He too had his wife sitting next to him. “The experience was amazing. I felt like a celebrity as everybody was clicking pictures and waving at me. With my wife beside me, the experience became even more beautiful and special,” he says. “I didn’t want to make an entry like most of the people do - walking like a king and with a song like Azeem O Shaan Shahenshah being played in the background. I wanted to make an impactful entry on my sangeet function. So I discussed it with my wedding planner and he suggested this (entry on an ATV) to me,” he tells us. 
 
  
  Ashish Kadel with his wife at their sangeet function
 
 
 “I was driving an ATV for the first time. It was totally new to me and I was a little nervous. I drove it carefully because I didn’t want any embarrassing moment in front of the guests,” he adds. 
 
 The guests, too, loved the idea, Aashish tells us. “Most of them had never seen an ATV and found it really interesting. I am glad that everything went as per the plan with no hiccups,” says Aashish.
 
 
