NEW DELHI: After winning a silver medal at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games, ace shuttler Kidambi   is focused on bringing more medal glory to the nation at the forthcoming   and World Championships. However, for the World No.3 singles player, remaining injury-free remains a big concern given the crammed BWF competition calendar.

 
 
 
 
 To keep fit and active on the circuit, Srikanth, who briefly held the World No.1 position recently before slipping down the ranking ladder, may skip a few Super Series tournaments in the run up to the Jakarta Asiad.
 
 "Injuries are becoming a major concern for all of us (badminton players), including me. I was injured last year and in the early part of this year. I really want to keep my health in mind. My first preference will be to take care of my body. For that, I might be skipping a few of them (Super Series). I can't play all of them," Srikanth told TOI.
 
  
  
 
 "I am targeting the Asian Games and World Championships, that's where my priority lies. Obviously, I have to maintain my ranking, so I have to plan my season accordingly. However, I don't play for rankings. For me, it's important to do well in tournaments. Becoming World No. 1 was a special feeling and I am happy about that," added Srikanth, who was in the capital along with PV  ,   and other   team members to attend the  's ( ) felicitation function.
 
 
 
 
 On the occasion, BAI chief Hemanta Biswa Sarma gave cash awards to the victorious players to the tune of Rs 1 crore, 30 lakh. Most notable cash awardees were Saina (20 lakh for women's singles gold) and Sindhu and Srikanth (10 lakh each for silver in singles event). The team which made history by winning India's first ever gold medal in the mixed team competition was presented with a cheque for Rs 50 lakh (Rs 5 lakh to each of the 10 players).
 
 
 
 
 Taiwan's Tai Tzu has been Saina's nemesis for long. The reigning World No.1 women's singles player boasts of an impressive 11-5 head-to-head record against Saina, the current World No. 10. "She has every deceptive shot in her book. You will go mad playing her if you are not strong enough. She can make you mad any time if you aren't playing well."
 
