NEW DELHI: The owner of the  ,  , could be charged with stricter sections as investigations have indicated that he may have been present in the locality when the fire broke out on Saturday evening. The case will be officially handed over to Crime Branch later this week.

 Sources said hours before the incident, two trucks filled with illegal colour crackers had left the premises after being monitored by Jain. Police are going to scan his mobile phone locations to arrive at a conclusion.
 
 Some of the eyewitnesses being examining by police said that Jain had parked his car outside the factory on Saturday evening and allegedly asked the supervisor to lock the door after the goods were loaded into the trucks. When the fire broke out around 6pm, Jain allegedly left before the cops arrived.
 
 When police reached his house at Ganeshpura in north Delhi’s Tri Nagar, Jain tried to pose as a tenant and claimed that he didn’t know anyone by the name, said police sources. When the cops insisted that he open the door, Jain asked his son to receive them. He also claimed to not being aware of the fire. Jain’s sons have a business of making rakhis and strings for temples at another factory near their house.
 
 Probe also revealed that Jain had hired a trusted group of labourers to keep the illegal business under wraps. It is learnt that he had been running the illegal business for the past two years.
 
 Family members of Goel, who stay in the same lane, told police that he was out of Delhi.
 
 A police team visited the factory on Monday and found that a large of amount of explosive materials for the crackers were transported in packs marked with Holi colour labels from a firm near Aligarh. Jain’s partners — Goel, Girish and Kale — will also be questioned about the source of the powder.
 
 The crackers produced by Jain were meant for Holi as they would spray colour when they exploded. Police are trying to nab the owner of the factory selling explosives.
 
 Jain will be produced before a magistrate on Wednesday and Crime Branch will seek his custody to interrogate him.
 
 
