NAGPUR: Researchers and academicians from across the country gathered in Nagpur for the 29th national conference of Maharashtra State Commerce Association on Saturday at  . Around 140 research papers have been submitted at the conference, which will be studied over the next two days and submitted to the state and central governments.

 The conference has been organized by Central Institute of Business Management Research and Development and   of Nagpur University. The inauguration programme started with a number of eminent speakers speaking on ‘Role of culture, ethos and Indian philosophy in commerce and industry’.
 
 Well known economist  , who was guest of honour, said, “I am a capitalist but capitalism has crossed its limits. Our country today needs the   of consumption to improve lifestyle of every citizen. Decentralization of economy is needed to enhance the quality of life in rural areas, which are one of the most affected strata of society.”
 
 Shashibala, dean of the Centre for Ideology, speaking about the ethos of Indian culture and philosophy. She said, “Indian culture has always been progressive about commerce and industries, however, we never used to exploit the resources provided by nature. Since ages, our society used to worship everything that universe provides. The problem of exploiting natural resources started soon after colonization.”
 
 “Now a days, our citizens are influenced by western culture, however, people forget that even though the western countries are developed, they are not happier. People must start working on development along with happiness, which come by helping others,” added Shashibala.
 
 MLA   chaired the event and said, “Increase in GDP must not be considered as development, rather developing deprived regions like Vidarbha must be considered as development. Providing basic amenities to every citizen is essential.”
 
 Social activist Girish Gandhi said on the occasion, “Economists and academicians must utilize their knowledge to give direction to the government as well as common people, which can improve their lifestyle.”
 
 Babanrao Taywade, principal of DNC, and others were present at the programme.
 
 
