KOLKATA:   in the city are keeping their faith in love, not jihad, despite the changing climate evident in the death threats received by one such couple and the debate over  , which even the judiciary has been forced to address in its own way.

 Couples like Debjani and Mehebub, Shahnaz and Naba and Samreen and Avinsah say they are unfazed and undeterred in the face of online vitriol and bigotry. “There is a lot of hatred against inter-faith couples on social media. But, when I look around and interact with my family and friends, I feel neither hatred nor discomfort. There are people who even regard us highly for our decision. This is all that matters to us,” Mehebub Alam, an architect in a leading real-estate company in Kolkata, who married Debjani Chatterjee in 2010, said on Tuesday.
 
 
  
  
 
 A Facebook group called Hindu Varta last month put out a list of 102 Facebook profiles of inter-faith couples across the country, 80% of them from  , citing them as examples of “love jihad” and calling for attacks against them. One young couple filed a complaint with the cyber cell following death threats from some right-wing groups.
  
 But most inter-faith couples TOI spoke to said their offline life remained largely unaffected by this online hatred.
 
 English professor Shahnaz Begum, who married college sweetheart and now Bengali professor Naba Gopal Roy, attributed this to the largely tolerant nature of people in the state. 
 
 “We have been married for many years but never faced any uncomfortable question about our marriage. Bengal has witnessed several reforms and the gentry here is educated with a wider worldview. For most people here, inter-faith marriages are a positive thing. There was not much resistance from our families. And frankly, when we are together, religion is not on our minds,” Roy said.
 
 It is the love for food, music and travel that has bound the duo. “Both of us are culturally alike. We love Rabindrasangeet, are passionate about maach and bhaat and enjoy travelling,” his wife added.
 
 Sociologists see inter-religious marriages as a sign of social progress. “Bengal’s citizens welcome inter-faith unions as a sign of social progress. The relatively high rates of marriage between Bengali Muslims and Bengali Hindus, for example, suggest that linguistic affinity is a stronger force than religious affinity in many pockets of Bengal,” sociologist Samaresh Guha Roy said.
 
 Social pressure against inter-religious marriages has always existed in Indian society but the call for attacks and a smear campaign by religious groups have complicated matters and led to courts urging governments to protect such couples from threats and aggression.
 
 One such couple, Samreen and Avinash, are still in college and dream of marrying each other in a few years. “But these are difficult times. Barring very close friends, we don’t disclose that we are a couple,” Samreen said.
 
 Debjani Chatterjee is proud of the person she has married and is passing on her beliefs to her daughter, Renaissance Chatterjee. “My daughter is growing up with the best of all religions. We are teaching her to respect and help everybody, irrespective of their faiths and beliefs,” she said.
 
 
