NEW DELHI: Police investigation has revealed that the trigger for the killing of 23-year-old   on Thursday was a text message that he had sent to the woman with whom he was in a relationship. The woman’s juvenile brother saw it on her phone and realised that she had been lying when she claimed to have stopped talking to Saxena a year ago. 

 The girl’s aunt, who lives in a neighbouring  , said when the father learnt about this on Wednesday, he was incensed. “They did love each other, but had parted ways since both the families were against their relationship. She told us she was no longer in touch with Ankit, but her father learnt on Wednesday that she was secretly in touch with the boy,” the aunt said.
 
 After discovering the text message, the family confronted the girl and she left the house in a huff on Wednesday. The family believed she had gone to Saxena’s house and discussed how to resolve the problem. Some time later, the family decided to eliminate the two. Retrieving a butcher’s knife they kept in the house, the group, including the father, uncle and brother, set out to find the duo.
 
 “At such a time, someone informed them that Ankit was present in the vicinity,” the girl’s aunt revealed. “So, they called Ankit and asked him to meet them. An argument broke out between them when the boy refused to reveal the whereabouts of the girl, which degenerated into a physical fight.”
 
 The accused corroborated this, when they told the cops that when confronted, Saxena had denied all knowledge about the girl and told them to settle any problem they had in the police station. The argument had then escalated and ended in a scuffle. Police have rounded up at least six witnesses who are being questioned.
 
 Police sources said that the CCTV footage recovered from the spot showed the 23-year-old photographer engaged in an argument with the father and uncle for nearly half an hour before they pushed him to the ground and kicked him in the groin. The video then showed Saxena’s mother trying to stop them from hitting him, upon which she too was assaulted. Saxena can be seen getting up and trying to go to his mother’s rescue when the three men attack him with the knife.
 
 After slitting Saxena’s throat, four of the assailants fled to a relative’s house in Rohini. Other relatives of the girl, who are now holed up in their flat in Raghubir Nagar, said they feared reprisal from the locals. “Our landlord has asked us to vacate the premises from where we ran our beauty parlours,” the aunt said. “Others in the neighbourhood are blaming us for the murder and are demanding our ouster from the colony.’
 
 She added that no one has been allowed to meet the family members who are in police custody, and conjectured that they would have to move back to their village in Saharanpur in UP because their safety was no longer assured in Raghubir Nagar.
 
 
