HYDERABAD: The fate of over 200 students of a   in the city hangs in balance with the local   authorities issuing a 'red notice' to stop construction of additional classrooms. The 76-year-old school is being expanded with funds from Sarva Siksha Abhiyan (SSA) to create new class rooms. It is located at First Lancer, about 200 metres away from the boundary wall of Mehdipatnam Military Garrison. Following the 'red notice' school management stopped construction. 

  
 Of the 200 students, 120 are in secondary school section while the rest are in primary school. "We are hard pressed for space. There is a demand from local families to admit more students, but even for 200 students we are running the school in two shifts - morning and evening. The only way to accommodate more students and run the school in one shift like many other schools in the state is to create additional classrooms. Even the existing building is in a dilapidated condition. Students are forced to partake mid-day meal in the open," said Mohammad Anwar-ul-Baqui, headmaster of the Government Boys High School, First Lancer.
 
 Taking a serious note of the dilapidated building in which the school is run, the   (GHMC) served notices twice under Section 456 of HMC Act, 1955. The civic body also warned that the building would collapse in case of a heavy downpour. Baqui said there is an open space of 200 sq yards and a new building is being constructed there. But Army authorities stopped the work.
 
 Keeping in view the safety of 200 school children, classes are held in a few rooms that are relatively in good condition. This has led to congestion. The state government accorded permission to build five additional classrooms. Work on the basement has completed and the Army intervened when pillars were being raised.
 
 Meanwhile, local military authority (LMA) inspected the school premises. In the red notice, the Quarter Master for Commanding Officer stated that the building is illegal and no permission was accorded for the construction. The property is A1-Defence land, the letter said adding that the school management should approach the head quarters of   and Andhra Sub Area to obtain no objection certificate ( ). If the permission is not obtained, then the school should be shifted.
 
 "It is true that the Army served a notice. We have no other option except to stop the ongoing work," said Mohammad Yakoob, assistant executive engineer, Sarva Siksha Abhiyan (SSA), Hyderabad. When contacted, Ravi Kumar, deputy educational officer, (Golconda), said "the matter was brought to Rajiv Vidya Mission's notice. It is not possible to shift the school to any other area due to Army's restriction".
 
 
