PATNA: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary and Patna-based   (ADRI) have initiated a move to organise an all-party meet on May 5 to evolve a consensus on the plea that the 15th Finance Commission chaired by N K Singh should retain the 2011 population census figures in the commission’s terms of reference while determining the share of states in the divisible pool of central taxes.

 The finance panel has to determine the amount that has to be transferred from the divisible pool of central taxes to the states, including Bihar, during 2020-25.
 
 The terms of reference, or criteria, for determining the enhanced tax devolution formula used by the 14th Finance Commission were population of states, their respective areas, per capita income distance of a state from the average of the per capita incomes of all the states, and their respective forest covers.
 
 The 15th Finance Commission has also noted that the 2011 Census figures will be among the criteria. However, the southern states have been demanding that the 1971 Census figures should be included and weightage given to the states which have done well in population control.
 
 “Actually, there is a provision in the 15th Finance Commission to give weightage to the states on this count. Therefore, the demand is misplaced,” ADRI member-secretary Shaibal Gupta said.
 
 According to him, ADRI has always taken the initiative right since the 12th Finance Commission to evolve a consensus among all the political parties and other bodies with regard to a common memorandum for submission to the Finance Commission by a joint delegation.
 
 “This memorandum will be different from the one formally submitted to the Finance Commission by the state government containing its demand even though the thrust and details of both the memoranda are normally the same,” Gupta said.
 
 Sources said the Speaker has not convened this all-party meet to be held on the assembly premises. “He and ADRI have taken the initiative, but it is ADRI that will send the invite to the concerned,” an assembly secretariat official said, adding the Speaker would also not be in the delegation that would submit the memorandum to the Finance Commission.
 
 CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, representatives of political parties, Bihar Chamber of Commerce, Bihar Industries Association and other professional bodies would attend the meet. 
 
 
