CHENNAI: Call it insufficient rainfall or lack of Cauvery water from Mettur dam, paddy crop in four lakh acres, including 1.5 lakh in the delta region, are under water stress. With Karanataka yet to confirm the appointment to meet chief minister Siddaramaiah by a delegation led by   from Tamil Nadu to seek release of Cauvery water, the agriculture department is a worried lot. The water-stressed areas are in Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and   districts. 

 With water release for irrigation from Mettur having been stopped due to poor storage from Jan 28, the agriculture department has shot off a letter to all district officers with instructions to mitigate water stress faced by the standing paddy crop immediately by adopting foliar application of Pink Pigmented Facultative Methylotroph ( ) and Potassium Chloride to withstand moisture stress. “The advisories are repeatedly sent to the field officials to save the crop to the best of their ability. While water release from Karnataka will go a long way in delta area and in other areas, any rains too will be helpful,” said a senior government official. Mettur has utilizable storage of 8tmcft until the next rains. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The phyllosphere bacteria PPFM has proved to be the best stress management component to mitigate water stress in crops like paddy for a period of 10 to 12 days under water scarce condition. The department has also suggested that Muriate of Potash, the cheap source of potassium for stress management component can be used during the period of crop growth. The field level officials have been instructed to identify village-wise paddy area under water stress and disseminate the mitigation measures, besides reaching out to   for availability of PPFM and Muriate of Potash. The anxiety stems from the fact the much of the crop under water stress is in flowering stage.
 
 Earlier, the state was content with bringing 102.17 lakh acreage under cultivation in this fiscal, as against last year’s 85.37 lakh acreage. “The state should have exerted pressure on Karnataka earlier to release water in time, abiding the tribunal’s award for monthly release. Requesting them now is too late, given the impending assembly polls there. We cannot save our standing crop even if at all there are a few spells of rains,”  , general secretary Arupathy P Kalayanam said. The combined storage of all four Cauvery reservoirs in Karnataka stood at 42.86tmcft on Friday.
 
