Kolkata: A Calcutta High Court division bench of Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice Rajshree Bhardwaj directed police and the state administration not to arrest former IPS officer   Ghosh’s husband MAV Raju until March 15. The court, however, told Raju to cooperate with police in their investigation.

 The HC was hearing Raju’s anticipatory bail plea in connection with a case of alleged extortion in Daspur police station area of West Midnapore when Ghosh was the superintendent of police there. The court told Raju to submit his passport to police and said he would have to present himself at Netajinagar police station at least once in a week. Raju was also asked not to enter Naktala area and cooperate with CID.
 
 Moving the bail plea, Raju’s counsel Bhaskar Sen alleged his client was being harassed by police because he was the husband of a former IAS officer. When the court asked why Raju had sought anticipatory bail when his name was not even in the FIR, Sen said CID had conducted search and seizure operations at his home and taken away several documents and land deeds as well as assets such as gold ornaments of the household deity. “Police have recovered 22 land deeds and gold ornaments from the house and so there is a possibility that my client might be arrested,” Sen told the court.
 
 Opposing the bail plea, advocate general (AG) Kishore Dutta said: “Police recovered Rs 2.5 crore and 22 land deeds from Bharati Ghosh’s house. The investigation started on February 2 and it is in a very nascent state. Police want to verify whether the money and the deeds have any connection with the alleged cash-for-gold case and in this connection, investigators want to interrogate Raju. He has skipped two dates.”
 
 Sen then said: “I am not telling (police) to stop the investigation but my client is being used as a pawn against his wife Bharati Ghosh.” The court then directed police to interrogate Raju if needed but not arrest him until March 15.
 
 In its interim order, the HC fixed March 12 to next hear the anticipatory bail plea. 
 
 
