PATNA: Mansi Jha of   (SKHS) won the   on  , organised by the Gyan Niketan school on Thursday as it observed eco-friendly week.

 The second prize went to Swati Shree of SKHS and the third prize to Jasleen Kaur of International School (CBSE). The consolation prize was given to Anshika Chaudhary of International School (CBSE). 
 
 Inaugurating the event, Patna zoo director Kamaljeet Singh urged students not to disturb the ecological balance and motivated them to keep their surroundings clean. 
 
 A skit on ‘Swachh Bharat, Swasth Bharat’ was presented by Lay Kumar, Om Kumar, Sarthak Kumar, Ayush and Sudhanshu Pradhan of Gyan Niketan. 
 
 On the occasion, students also planted 50 saplings on the school premises. School chairman S N P Sinha, managing committee member S S Jha, principal J K Mukherjee and administrator Anita Kunal were also present.
 
 Health camp at PWC: The PG department of Home Science of Patna Women’s College organised a health camp on Thursday to spread awareness among students about the importance of healthcare.
 
 The camp was inaugurated jointly by Patna University VC Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, general physician Dr B N Mishra and college principal Sr Marie Jessie. 
 
 Ophthalmologist Dr Anil Kumar, orthopaedician Dr Khurshid Alam, gynaecologists Dr Rita Kumari and Dr Richa Sinha, Dr Baijnath Prasad and Dr Ashok Kumar conducted the camp.
 
 ‘Green’ school: The Delhi Public School (DPS)-Patna was among the country’s five schools which received the ‘Change-Maker Award’ at the annual Green   hosted by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in Delhi on Wednesday.
 
 The other recipients were The Fab India School-Pali (Rajasthan), Kendriya Vidyalaya, Army Cantt-Pangode (Kerala), Kendriya Vidyalaya-Ottapalam (Kerala) and Motilal Nehru School of Sports (Haryana).
 
 Altogether 2,863 schools from 29 states and five Union Territories registered themselves for the GSP environmental audit this time. Of these, 1,193 schools submitted audit reports to the CSE. 
 
 The auditing was done on parameters such as resource efficiency, low water use, energy efficiency, low waste generation, harvesting and recycling of water, and providing a healthier space for occupants as compared to a conventional building.
 
 The DPS-Patna got the award for providing safe water, maintaining air quality and food and waste management. “It is proud moment for us... Our school has organised a number of events on environment and raised environmental issues at different forums,” said DPS-Patna teacher Minakshi.
 
 Sharat Kumar, another faculty member of social science, accompanied Minakshi to Delhi to receive the award on behalf of the school. 
 
 “The school has constructed recharge trenches to collect water from paved areas and has devised its own method to calculate water levels before and after monsoons. We have our own rainwater harvesting infrastructure. We encourage students not to use packaged juice or milk. The school administration has placed separate bins for wet and dry waste at 86 points on the campus and has its own paper recycling machine,” said Minakshi.
 
 
