SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh government has filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against the   (NGT) orders imposing restriction on construction activity in Shimla planning area. 

 Urban development minister   said this in a response to a question from Congress MLAs Anirudh Singh and  . She also said that the previous Congress government had pleaded the case "non-seriously". 
 
 She added that the review petition would also be filed in the Supreme Court against restriction imposed by high court on regularization of buildings.
 
 Anirudh and Vikramaditya had asked the government whether the state government planned to file a review petition against the NGT order imposing restriction on construction activity in Shimla municipal corporation area and Shimla planning area. 
 
 Answering their queries, Sarveen Chaudhary said the policy brought in by the previous regime for regularization of buildings had been scrapped by the HC. She added that the government would file review petition in the matter. 
 
 On the NGT issue, the minister said a review petition was filed before the tribunal, but hearing could not be conduced on Tuesday in the absence of a full bench. "Considering this, now the government will approach the Supreme Court." Chaudhary that during the previous Congress regime case was not pleaded effectively and the previous regime had paid Rs 36 lakh as fee to an advocate, who did not say even 36 words. 
 
 Alleging that the minister giving a political reply, state Congress president and   Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu said that the ban on construction works in Shimla planning area had also restricted height of buildings to two and half storey in the Shimla development plan. 
 
 He said the Himachal Pradesh secretariat, which was built in 1903, had eight storeys while Cecil Hotel was built in 1917 with nine storeys. He said load bearing capacity of soil was good in Shimla and asked whether the government would file a review petition to seek permission for construction of 4-5 storey buildings.
 
 Sarveen Chaudhary said a review petition would be filed with the request to grant permission for four floors.
 
 
