PATIALA: The results of the byelection of a ward in Patran municipal council have been withheld following an inquiry into the allegations of   during voting. Patiala deputy commissioner-cum-district returning officer (DRO) on Monday had ordered to withhold the bypoll results after Patran returning officer (RO)   conducted a preliminary inquiry and found that a booth was captured by some persons in connivance with poll officials.

 Patran RO also recommended action against erring poll officials allegedly involved in booth capturing. Apart from election officials, some cops on duty at the booth were also accused of conniving with the accused. Harbans, who is posted as tehsildar in Patran, conducted the preliminary investigation into the case and had named a presiding officer, a supervisor, three polling officers and a duty magistrate for extending support for booth capturing.
 
 “I had submitted the list of officials who were holding the responsibility of the booth. They should have informed us about the booth capturing incident in time. We watched the video and found the involvement of some police officials. I had written to the authorities about the incident. Around 1,250 votes were polled of the total 1,462 in the bypoll,” he said.
 
 Booths of ward number 11, where the bypoll for the Patran MC was held on February 24, were allegedly captured by Congress workers. An unknown person recorded the video in which some persons were seen capturing the booth and casting votes on behalf of voters. The video was shared on social media on February 25 and went viral within hours, forcing the district administration to look into the matter. A bypoll was held after sitting councillor   died around over a year ago. His son   (22) was facing Shiv Chand (40) of SAD. There are 15 wards in the Patran MC, of which five councillors are from SAD and the remaining from the Congress.
 
 Shiv alleged that Congress workers kidnapped and locked him and his daughter in separate rooms in the presence of officials supervising the elections and then captured the booth. “We have not filed a complaint with the state election commission as we want to see what action the district election officials will take after watching the video of booth capturing. If any official or those guilty are not taken into account then we will sue them before the election commission,” he said.
 
 Patiala DC-cum-DRO Kumar Amit said Patran RO was looking into the matter and action would be taken against all those found guilty.
 
 
