NAGPUR: City’s garbage disposal contractor   (KRML) has informed   ( ) that it will not lift garbage from June 1, as its 10-year contract ends on May 31, unless the garbage lifting charges are revised.

 A senior NMC official from the sanitation department confirmed receiving a letter to this effect from the firm. 
 
 NMC had entered into a 10-year agreement with Kanak Resources in 2008 to lift garbage from across the city, and dispose it at Bhandewadi dump yard. The actual work began the following year. NMC had assigned the firm to lift garbage at the rate of Rs449 per tonne, which was approved by the standing committee.
 
 In a letter to the municipal commissioner on April 20, Kamlesh Sharma, head (projects), KRML, stated that the firm will continue to lift garbage only if the rates are revised from the existing Rs1,306 per tonne.
 
 In the letter, the firm has mentioned that the delay in payments by the civic body is affecting its service of lifting garbage door-to-door.
 
 The firm also objected to NMC’s demand notice issued on August 1 last year to recover Rs24.60 crore from it. A CAG report had said NMC had made excess payments to KRML. As per the original agreement, the contractor had received Rs184.60 crore from NMC against actual required payment of Rs154.90 crore till March 2017.
 
 However, KRML claims all calculations and payments were done as per agreed terms and conditions in the contract. NMC has not only deducted Rs47 lakh from its payment, but also withheld Rs8.76 crore without any justification, it further stated. 
 
 Delay in releasing payments have crippled the financial condition of the firm as it has continued to pay salaries, besides having to spend on maintaining a fleet of over 250 vehicles engaged in garbage lifting and transportation. The firm also owns 670 cycle rickshaws used to collect garbage. It spends around Rs4 crore each month on salaries and over Rs50 lakh for maintenance of vehicles and EMIs of vehicles, said the source.
 
 After the project kicked off, NMC announced the city would be bin-free from April 1, 2009, as the private firm with a workforce of 1,500 started lifting garbage from every doorstep. The civic body won many accolades for this project, and was probably the first city in the state to go bin-free. When Kanak was engaged, the city used to generate around 600 metric tonne garbage each day. It has now increased by almost 500 to 600 tonne, with inclusion of many new localities, including Hudkeshwar and Narsala.
 
 The officer said NMC had issued work order to KRML in January 2008 for a period of ten years. Thus, the agreement ended in January 2018.
 
 The officer said NMC will continue KRML services till March 2019, an extension of 14 months. “KRML took over services in May 2008. NMC is supposed to give nine-month mobilization period as per tender norms.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, KRML manager Kamlesh Sharma was not available for comment.
 
 
