Kanyakumari: Thirty children from the families of cyclone Ockhi fishermen gave the little money they had collected through their piggy banks to Meenavar Orunginaippu Sangam in the presence of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Hassan at Colachel on Wednesday. This kick-started the fund collection by the Sangam for building a state-of-the-art boat to rescue fishermen in distress. Among them were eight-year-old Jeriliyo and her seven-year-old sister Juna Junalia. The sisters and their one-year-old sister Catherine Jenila are the children of Justin Babu of Colachel who was one of the fishermen who were killed in the cyclone. Touched by their contribution, Hassan who received their piggy banks and handed it over to the Sangam announced Rs 5 lakh as his personal contribution for the boat. “The multi-facility search and rescue boat would cost between Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore,” said one of the organisers of the association, Lenin. The association recalled that when cyclone Ockhi hit the district and claimed the lives of more than 200 fishermen from Tamil Nadu on November 30 and December 1, fishermen had provided locations of boats where their fellow fishermen were in distress in the Arabian Sea. But help came from the government only three days after the disaster and the places they had provided were not searched. “Coast Guard had limitations such as inability to go beyond 50 nautical miles from the coast. But out fishermen go several hundred nautical miles into the sea for deep sea fishing,” Lenin said and added that this was one of the many hurdles that delayed help reaching fishermen of this region, resulting in their deaths. This pressing situation was the sparked behind the need for a dedicated multi-facility rescue boat for fishermen. Johnson Charles from Colachel, a ship captain and one of the organisers of the association said that they plan to have the latest communication gadgets such as medium frequency/ high frequency SSB radio with limited access to serve their purpose, a small hospital like set with nurse and first aid that would be required to have the fishermen alive till they reached the shore. “The boat should travel at a speed of 30 nautical miles an hour so that they can reach the boat or fishermen in distress quickly. Conventional boats that we use travel at a speed of less than five nautical miles an hour,” he said and added that the boat will also have facilities to mend or tow stranded boats to the shore. Stating that quite a few people have already agreed to extend financial support for the boat project, the organisers said that they would begin work as soon as the required funds are collected. They made it clear that the project would take off only with the consent of the government agencies.