PUNE: A sessions court has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of  , former chief officer of   Municipal Council ( ), who is facing arrest for allegedly cheating his friend of Rs 1.30 crore. 

 Complainant Dhanraj Jawanmal Bhurat (54) of Lonavla has alleged that Naik (63) was familiar to him as a friend for over two decades and the latter connived with two partners in a realty company to convince him to invest money in a housing project near Thane in December 2012.
 
 Bhurat alleged that at Naik’s insistence, he transferred Rs 1.30 crore advance money for two flats in the project through online   system in favour of Dharam Mawari, one of the partners in the realty company. “The total consideration for these flats was Rs 2.80 crore,” Bhurat’s lawyer Milind Pawar told TOI. 
 
 However, after collecting the money, Naik and his two associates neither executed an agreement for sale nor did they deliver the two flats. Instead, they threatened him with dire consequences if the complainant demanded the money back, Bhurat alleged. 
 
 On November 7 last year, a magisterial court in Vadgaon Maval directed registration of an FIR for cheating and other offences against Naik and his two aides following a private complaint lodged by Bhurat.
 
 Acting on it, the Lonavla city police lodged an FIR against Naik and his associates, identified as Dhansingh alias Dharam S Mawari (44) and Sudhir Nakadi of Thane, for offences punishable under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 504 (causing insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 Fearing his arrest, Naik moved the anticipatory bail plea which was heard and rejected by additional sessions judge Pralhad Bhagure on Wednesday. His lawyer Seoul Shah said, “We will move an appeal in the Bombay high court against the sessions court’s order rejecting the pre-arrest bail.”
 
 Judge Bhagure said in his order, “It appears from the complaint that the accused persons have hatched somewhat conspiracy and thereafter cheated the complainant, so custodial interrogation is requirement of the case.”
 
 The court said, “It appears from the complaint itself that the complainant has handed over the amount to Dharam Mawari at the instance of applicant-accused (Naik). It appears, applicant-accused has taken active participation in the transaction from time to time by meeting and forcing the complainant to purchase the flat. The huge amount has been obtained by accused persons from the complainant. The amount of Rs 1.30 crore has been involved in the transaction. The offence is related to the economy. There is nothing on record to show that the accused persons were under fare deal to sell the flat to the complainant.”
 
 
