CHENNAI: The  's (AAI) attempt to set up multi-brand retail outlets at the Chennai   seems to have suffered a setback after only four companies turned up for a pre-bid meeting held at the airport recently.   is planning to appoint an agency that will identify brands and allot space in the terminals for seven years. However, the firms which took part in bidding say AAI officers did not have a clear answer on the queries raised at the meeting. 

 Many companies who would want their brands in the airport are worried about the manner in which space will be allotted and the fate of the shops in case the old terminals are remodelled. The previous contractor had moved the court after bagging the contract last year. The outcome of the case and the impact it might have on their shops is also a cause of concern for the companies. AAI is yet to allay these concerns, but opened the tender on Thursday. The existing retail outlets are on extension till June. "The space for shops is scattered all over the terminals with no concept of arranging it along with the passenger flow. Some of the spots were given along side the existing ones. More shops are going to come up on the city side," said industry sources.
 
 "AAI should not have called for a new tender before the court case is settled. The officials did not specify the fate of the shops if the case goes in favour of existing retailers and also what happens to the retail shops subletted to brands when terminals are taken up for rebuilding. The contractor who will sublet the space to brands will have to assure them uninterrupted business for seven years. They have to pay 2 crore as annual rent to AAI," industry sources added. 
 
 A senior AAI official said, "Alternate spots will be provided to move the shops when old terminals are taken up for demolition and rebuilding," adding that the tender was floated as there were no restrictions from court.
 
 Around 1,228sqm have been alotted in the international and the domestic terminals for retail units. 
 
 
