MUMBAI: When an under-trial recently moved Alibaug court to allege that he was “molested” by a police constable in  , cops responded by saying he had been subjected to “routine frisking”. Going by the records of several jails, frisking is becoming a common practice to combat the rising trend of   banned narcotics by hiding these in body  .

 “Hardened criminals and drug addicts hide narcotics in their body cavities to smuggle these into jails. Later, they get the   out, either to sell or consume,” said an Arthur Road Jail official. 
 
 Rajesh Kaikadi, the inmate who accused a constable of molestation, was imprisoned in an attempt to murder case registered with Khargar police in 2015 under the Arms Act and MCOCA. Cops suspected him of hiding drugs in his rectum. The on-duty constable reportedly asked Kaikadi to take off his clothes and do sit-ups. Nothing was found though. During sit-ups, drugs hidden in a   can be “automatically” retrieved. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 “When   return from their court hearings, most times we get an inkling of any wrongdoing by reading their faces. There is a new trend in prisons of inmates smuggling in ganja, mephedrone tablets, other narcotics and even  . In most cases, we have found that inmates wrap these in small plastic sachets and hide these in the rectum. Later, they visit the washroom and get the drugs out. We have got information that some suspects either sell the drugs or consume these with friends inside jail premises,” said Harshad Ahirrao, superintendent, Arthur Road Jail. This is the reason, said Ahirrao, why jail staff takes precautionary measures such as frisking. 
 
 Earlier, jail authorities allowed tobacco and lime but later banned these items too. “Through our network we learnt that some inmates who went for court hearings replaced lime with mephedrone in a paste form and easily smuggled it inside the four walls of a  . We were shocked to learn of it and banned it,” said Ahirrao. 
 
 In several cases, jail authorities said they inform local police about seized drugs. “However, local police are not keen on registering cases most times. For instance, jail authorities said they wrote to N M Joshi Marg police after seizing five cigarette-like rods filled with ganja from an inmate’s rectum on October 30, 2017. But they did not register a case against the inmate,” said one. Despite repeated attempts, concerned officials of local police station remained unavailable for comment. 
 
 An accused recently strapped a cellphone to his inner thigh after returning from a court hearing. The phone was recovered when cops asked him to take off his trousers. When officials must undress an inmate, they supply him with a towel. 
 
 
