GURGAON: The number of visiting migratory birds at   in Gurgaon has gone down slightly this year, a   has revealed. The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), conducted by a group of nine birders from Delhi and Gurgaon on Thursday, will be released on Friday.

 As per the birders’ observations, the number of migratory birds has gone down to some extent this year due to lack of rainfall and more human interference owing to construction activities near the jheel. The birders, however, managed to spot birds, including greater flamingos, little grebe, common teal, Indian pond heron, common coot, black-eared kite and barn swallow.
 
 TK Roy, ecologist & AWC Delhi state coordinator, Wetlands International-South Asia, told TOI that Najafgarh Jheel has become an important habitat for many migratory birds, including greater flamingos due to increasing habitat disturbance by human interference in Okhla Bird Sanctuary. 
 
 “Due to increasing garbage pollution, noise pollution and human thoroughfare in and around Okhla Bird Sanctuary and fluctuation of water level, some species of birds have made Najafgarh Jheel their home. It is, therefore, extremely important to notify this as a wetland,” he said.
 
 Roy, however, expressed concern over the declining number of birds every year in the region. “Climate change is one of main factors responsible for a decline in the number of migratory waterbirds in this region. Also lack of rainfall, for instance, is another major reason for lack of water in the wetlands. That is why, we are not witnessing many ducks this year,” he said.
 
 Roy, however, expressed concern over the declining number of birds every year in the region. “There are two factors responsible for a decline in the number of migratory waterbirds in this region — global   change and changing   patterns. Lack of rainfall, for instance, is a major reason for lack of water in the wetlands. That is why, we are not witnessing many ducks this year,” he said.
 
 Conducted every year for the Delhi region, the census will be carried out at six important wetlands — Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur Wetland, Najafgarh Drain and Jheel, River Yamuna, Sanjay Lake and the National Zoological Park.
 
 
