CHANDIGARH: A day after Punjab finance minister   Singh   made personal remarks against his estranged uncle and former CM  , Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Thursday “dared” Manpreet to either prove his allegations of SGPC langar arranged for prayer meeting his aunt (Surinder  ), or quit politics.

 Sukhbir added, “I offer to quit politics forever if Manpreet can prove his allegation on this score. Otherwise, he should either prove his charges or agree to quit politics. I dare him to accept my challenge.”
 
 The Akali president said he was amused to see Manpreet acting and speaking with the bitterness of a jealous man. “Instead of replying to our attack on his budget, he chose to spend most of his time venting his spleen on his erstwhile patron and father-like figure,  , to whom he owes his very presence in politics.”
 
 “But having given expression to his bitterness hidden behind hypocritical culture and smiles, I hope he now also tells farmers and other people of Punjab what he intends to do about the promises made to them. But anyone who can betray his own family and benefactors will not find it hard to betray the farmers and other people of Punjab,” said Sukhbir.
 
 The former deputy CM said everyone knows how   organised an endless chain of langars for the devotees and for the poor. “To say that the langar for her own bhog would come from the SGPC is an act of shameful falsehood.”
 
 He said Parkash Singh Badal had always treated Manpreet with profound love, affection and care, much greater than he has given him (Sukhbir). “He even gave up his own seat at Gidderbaha to launch Manpreet in politics. Before I was anyone in Punjab politics, Manpreet was made the finance minister of the state by my father, which is the number two position in the cabinet after the chief minister himself. And this is how Manpreet repays his elderly, father-like uncle.”
 
 Meanwhile, SAD leader and former finance minister   said the Congress government was “destroying the livelihood of common man” by imposing surcharge on petrol and diesel, registration of vehicles, power bills and liquor. He said besides this an additional amount of Rs 200 per month was being imposed on all income tax payers in the name of professional tax.
 
 
