PANCHKULA: Advocate Man Mohan hired two criminals from Madhya Pradesh (MP) to dump the body of his wife Rajni Bala, alias Neetu, after he, his lover Monika and her relative Sandeep Gill murdered her on January 16, police said on Sunday.

 The body was yet to be found.
 
 A police team carrying out the investigation into the   case told TOI that all three accused on January 16 switched off their phones and decided to meet in Sector 21 in a car bearing registration number plate of Madhya Pradesh (MP). Man Mohan asked his wife to come to the sector to purchase some grocery. When she reached the spot, the three accused made her sit in the car and strangulated her with the help of a rope. The body was then dumped by the two men from MP.
 
 “One of the two men from MP has been identified as  . Both he and his friend hail from Neemuch. A team will be sent to the town to nab the accused,” said sub-inspector  , one of the investigating officers in the case,
 
 On January 20, police received information that the body of the victim was found near the dumping ground in Sector 23. A police team along with forensic officials found some bloodstains and sandals of the victim at the site. After digging around 3-foot deep, the cops, however, found the carcass of a dog.
 
 Police said the case was cracked when CDR (call detail records) reports of Man Mohan were scrutinised. Man Mohan spoke to Monika daily over phone and his tower location was found to be at her house in Manimajra nearly every day. But after Rajni went missing, he did not contact Monika and never visited her house in Manimajra. On behalf of suspicion, cops on the night of January 25 detained Monika, who confessed to have committed the crime with Man Mohan and her brother-in-law, police said.
 
 On the night of January 27, police added the name of Man Mohan in the FIR registered against Monika and Sandeep under Sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), after a day-long interrogation. On Sunday, a local court sent him in police remand till February 3.
 
 Advocates gathered at the district court on Sunday refused to support Man Mohan, saying they were backing the police investigation. However, advocates said if police failed to recover the body, the entire case would fall apart.
 
 
 
 Advocate Man Mohan, his lover and her relative switched off their mobile phones at their homes on January 16 and decided to meet in Sector 21, where Rajni was called by Man Mohan on the pretext of purchasing grocery. Rajni was murdered in a moving car bearing registration number plate of Madhya Pradesh. She was strangulated by a rope near the dumping ground in Sector 23, police said. Cops cracked the case when they checked the CDR (call data records) of Man Mohan and detained Monika, who confessed to her crime.
 
 
 
 
 Advocate Man Mohan is very clever and has not confessed to his crime in the murder case till now, police said. Investigators felt he had specially hired the two criminals from Madhya Pradesh to dispose of the body to weaken the case. “If the body is not recovered, the case will fall apart as there will be no evidence against the accused,” sources said. Police, however, said the other two accused have already confessed to their crime and Man Mohan’s role in the case.
 
