In a popular ad featuring the renowned classical dance couple, the  , an uber-cool elderly duo can be seen setting out on a second honeymoon. 

 The ad had inspired many senior citizens to follow their example.
 
 These days, an increasing number of the elderly are making use of their retired life to engage in trips with their beloved, thus reviving the long-lost spark of love. There are also a few who go on trips to catch up with their old buddies. For these senior citizens, life begins after retirement, when they get to start again, after getting relieved of busy schedules.
 
 
 
 The retirement of her husband Raveendranath TC, a former superintendent engineer at the state irrigation department in 2014, at the age of 56, gave wings to the long-cherished dreams of Jayasree, who always loved travelling. She says, “When we were younger, along with our two daughters we used to go for picnics in our old Maruti 800 or our bike. Our car would be a comical sight, with our luggage along with four human beings (laughs). Our lives got busy over time and trips became an occasional affair. Now the two of us are setting out on trips by ourselves as our elder daughter is married while the younger one is busy with her graduation. We have ample time to wander around the places which we badly wanted to visit. Yes, it is our second honeymoon.”
 And their trips have indeed been special, says Jayasree. “In 2016, my husband and I went on a trip to Thailand. I must say we enjoyed being by ourselves and would have missed each other’s company if our children had accompanied us (laughs). The cruise dinner at Bangkok was like a fantasy come true for me.”
 
 On her bucket list is to cover all the Seven Wonders of the World while her husband’s wish is to discover India. ‘’We visited the Taj Mahal and The Great Wall of China and hope we will be able to complete the rest too. We have visited Singapore earlier, but we liked the culture and locales so much that we are going again. China was the worst place we visited. The hotel receptionists don’t even know the English word ‘sugar’, and we had trouble with food.”
 For 67-year-old Mukundan K Menon, retirement was the perfect time to travel the world and visit places he always wanted to see. After retiring as Kerala Government Secretariat employee in 2005, he, along with his wife, Kala, an employee at the Accountant General (AG)’s office in Thiruvananthapuram, is now on a mission to visit their dream destinations. They have already ticked numerous destinations within the country like Kashmir on their list, as well as Bali islands, Jakarta, Andaman Nicobar islands and Langkawi in Malaysia.
 
 “For me the trips are a means to explore new places and meet new people. These are experiences one can cherish in life later. My wife has the provision for Leave Travel Concession (LTC). Travelling has become a hobby for me after retirement,” says Mukundan K Menon.
 
 But the senior citizens also had to face quite a few tricky situations during their trips. “Our nine-day trip to Rajasthan was an unforgettable one. We were five elderly people including my brother-in-law who is also a retired govt official. The demonetisation drive was announced when we were in the middle of our trip, in Rajasthan. None of the restaurants accepted cash payments and the ATMs were crowded. Thankfully there was a retired national bank employee in our group and with his help we were able to withdraw cash from a bank quickly. We returned to Thiruvananthapuram immediately. Luckily we didn’t face more hurdles as the accommodation and return flight tickets were pre-booked.” 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Mukundan Menon is now is gearing up for the Kailash-Manasarovar Yatra, with his 63-year-old brother-in-law, Krishna Panicker. 
 Krishna Panicker also loves to go on trips with his college classmates. The trips, he says, keep alive the friendship and feelings of togetherness with people of his generation. “We have a friendship group made up of the old students of the M.Sc. Physics department of my college in Aluva. We go for annual trips, without our children. They don’t understand the kind of fun we have with old friends. Rather than capture photos on phones, we prefer to etch the moments in our hearts,” says Krishna Panicker. 
 
 There are also solo travellers who find fun in exploring new places by themselves, be it scenic or religious spots. For 55-year-old Krishnaveni S, a native at Thampanoor, it was a dream come true to travel alone and she thanks her husband and daughter for their support.
 “Right from my childhood I wanted to globetrotte, as my father, who has served as Chief Secretary, would go for official tours leaving us children behind. After I settled down in life I too started going for sightseeing with my family and friends. I have some health issues and so can’t visit high altitude destinations. I am a member of the women’s only travel group Appooppanthadi and thus was able to visit beautiful locales like Chitharal, Gokarna and Dhanushkodi.” Krishna Veni, who is a medical transcriptionist, says her dream is to visit Konark temple. “My birthday falls in August, so I wish to gift myself a solo Konark Sun Temple trip as a birthday present.”
 
 
 
 For many of the elders, the trips are a means to a pilgrimage. Lathika Devi (68), a retired school teacher from Cotton Hill Girls Higher Secondary School in Vazhuthacaud, along with her colleagues, is using her post-retirement days to explore various temples across the country.
  “It is a great experience to visit the temples which tell lots of miraculous stories and beliefs. There are around 10 retired teachers in my age group who accompany me usually. We research on the place and its significance properly before visiting them. Along with my friends I have covered almost all the temples in the State, including Thiruvarppu Krishna Temple in Kottayam, where lord Krishna is given nivedyam at 2 am. It is fun to travel with like-minded people. Our next trip will be to Char Dham Yatra (Yamunotri, Gangotri Kedarnath and Badrinath).”
 And it is not just devotion that attracts her to the temples. “The architecture of our temples is amazing. But it is sad that many of these structures lack maintenance and proper care .”
 
 
 
 For Lathika teacher, her trips are also a means of making the descriptions she has read in books come alive. She recalls a trip she made to Kolkata in 2016. “I saw the Howrah Bridge and the Hooghly River for real. For our generation, Bengal is a great feeling, known through the beautiful novels of Tagore and other greats. When I saw the place for real, and took a walk through Howrah Bridge, those words and descriptions came back to me,” she adds.
 Similar was Mukundan K Menon’s experience, as many of his visits were influenced by the writings of S K Pottekkatt. “During my visit to Bali Islands and the Andaman Nicobar a few years ago, I revisited the chapters of his novels,” he says.
 
