PATNA: The Bihar Public School and Children Welfare Association (BPSCWA) has decided that the students of Class VI and above in its 200 member-schools in 17 districts will also take part in the   to be formed on January 21 to spread awareness against child marriage and dowry.

 BPSCWA president DK Singh said the decision was taken at a meeting on Friday. “We told the principals of our member-schools to ensure that the students are not forced to be part of the event being organised by the state government,” he said.
 
 The association has also asked the participating school teachers to ensure the safety of students until they return home. The schools should provide bus service to the participating students.
 
 Singh said the meeting was attended by heads of 150 private schools based in Patna district. Heads of the member-schools in other districts joined the meeting through videoconferencing.
 
 He said the schools were also asked to give a ‘permission slip’ to the students to get it signed by their parents. “The schools must not pressurise any student to join the human chain without the approval of their parents,” he said.
 
 The BPSCWA decision is in accordance with the Patna high court’s order on January 16 that the state government cannot take any action against either students or teachers for not participating in the human chain. The court said it would be solely the call of the students’ parents to send or not to send their wards to join the human chain.
 
 St Karen’s High School-Patna principal Seema Singh said the students of classes VII to IX of her school would be urged to join the human chain formation. “Our students have already prepared placards and posters related to child marriage and dowry. It is for parents to decide whether they want to send their kids or not, but the teachers of the school will be there in full strength,” she said and added, however, that the school would not send its students if the weather on the day turned inclement.
 
 A Notre Dame Academy official also confirmed that around 500 students from classes VIII and IX would be asked to join the human chain after taking the consent of their parents. The school band will also perform at the event.
 
 St Michael’s High School principal Fr Armstrong Edison and Loyola High School principal Br Satheesh K Don said their students from classes VI to XI, excepting Class X, would join the human chain. It’s not mandatory though, they said.
 
 Don Bosco Academy principal Mary Alphonsa said the school had already sent notices regarding the event to the parents of their schoolchildren studying in classes VIII, IX and XI. “Those students who get the permission of their parents will join the human chain,” she added.
 
 
