PILIBHIT: The Supreme Court’s order to entrust as many as 186 anti-Sikh riot cases from 1984 to a new special investigation team (SIT) has come as a consolation to the families of the victims settled in   district. 
 
  These cases, which have not yet been investigated by a Centre-appointed SIT, will be sent for further investigation to a new SIT headed by a retired high court judge, the apex court said on Wednesday.
  
  Many Sikh families in Pilibhit had to face arson and lost their loved ones in the riots.
  
  Jogendra Singh, 54, a small farmer from Chak Shivpuri under Makrandapur village panchayat in Bisalpur tehsil has never been able to forget the formidable moments when a mob attacked his family after the assassination of Prime Minister  . He was then 22 years old.
  
  “The mob looted all our household articles, cash and jewellery before setting our crops and farmhouse ablaze. I was living with my three brothers, their wives and children and our paralyzed father, Mangal Singh,” said Jogendra Singh, his eyes reflecting the horror he was witness to.
  
  His family took shelter in the house of the then gram pradhan, Beni Ram, who protected them, he said. “For many days, we survived with the help extended by Gurudwara Nanakmata in Udhamsingh Nagar,” he said.
  
  Since then, he has been struggling for the past 32 years for settlement of his claim for compensation. But the then revenue staff made mistakes in noting down his correct name in the official records. He is still facing a series of objections in the award of reparation. “I have now appealed to the Prime Minister in a letter to address my right to compensation,” he said.
  
   , a 65-year-old farmer of Dhankuni village under Neuria police station, recalled how a mob of villagers shot dead his father   on the intervening night between October 30 and 31, 1984. “The mob set my two houses afire and all our household goods and valuables were reduced to ashes. I took my 59-year- old mother, Gurmel Kaur, my wife,   and my daughter,   to the sugarcane fields to save ourselves,” said Jeet Singh, who was a security guard at State Bank of India’s Madhotanda branch then.
  
  “The government paid Rs 5 lakh as compensation to me whereas our loss was over Rs 20 lakh. Besides, I lost my father,” he said.
  
  Another farmer of village Dhankuna under Neuria police station, Jaspal Singh, recalled how rioters set on fire Dhankuna gurudwara where many Sikh families had taken shelter. “It was the mercy of God that we somehow succeeded in saving our lives,” he added.
  
  A 64 year old farmer of village Kanjaharraiya under Gajraula police station said the last time he heard of his brothers-in-law was on October 30. The duo had gone to Bhubaneswar (in Odisha) to arrange labour for his irrigation department contracts in Najibabad district of UP. The local labour contractor there took an advance payment from them and after that they went missing. “I rushed to Bhubaneswar, reported the matter to police but all my efforts proved futile as the police could not find even their bodies,” he said.
