LUCKNOW: Retired IAS officer  , once known as a crusader against corruption for conducting a ballot to identify three most corrupt IAS officers of UP cadre, has taken the electoral plunge. He will be contesting the general elections to be held in 2019. 

 Along with Pandey, other retired IAS and IPS officers and technocrats are also aiming to step into turbulent political waters to challenge the "money and muscle power of existing political parties". A good number of people who were part of the nationwide campaign IRI (India Rejuvenation Initiative), which has former chief justices, former state police chiefs, retired and serving bureaucrats and social activists as members, have joined the newly formed   ( ).
 
 Talking to TOI, Pandey said that he, along with some other like-minded officers and technocrats, would be contesting the 2019 parliamentary elections from Lok Gathbandhan Party, which was formed in October 2016. He would contest from Faizabad parliamentary constituency, where he had served as district magistrate also.
 
 Along with Pandey, those who are likely to contest are retired ADG police, SN Singh, former director of IIT Kharagpur, SK Dubey and some other retired bureaucrats. Singh was also known for his honesty and integrity throughout his career and was the one who played a key role in the liquidation of dreaded don  , who was wanted by the police of three states - UP, Bihar and Delhi.
 
 The former bureaucrat said that he was well aware of the fact that taking on big sharks of politics was a very challenging task, but through the LGP he would be providing an alternative to the public. He said the LGP would be contesting the elections in seven states including UP and Gujarat.
 
 The LGP has already launched its website, lokgathbandhanparty.org and its election campaign also.
 
 Asked about lack of funds and resources, Pandey said that honesty, integrity and the impeccable past record of LGP members would be the biggest asset against a majority of those who have ill-gotten wealth, criminal cases and muscle power at their disposal. When asked about the reason to enter politics, Pandey said that if one wants to really change the existing "rotten system", it was possible only through the key of power.
 
 
