NAGPUR: Central   officials are apprehensive about the Nagpur   Rail Corporation Limited (NMRCL) plan to use existing railway tracks to run Metro trains up to short distances, like Wardha, Ramtek, Kalmeshwar, Katol and Bhandara.

 “We have our own capacity constraints owing to several mail, express and freight trains operating in these sections. Finally, the   will have to take a call on the issue,” said new divisional railway manager Somesh Kumar,   Railway.
 
 Kumar was talking to mediamen on Friday. Similar apprehensions had also been expressed by SECR   Shobhana Bandopadhyaya while talking to newsmen on Thursday.
 
 NMRCL plans to run air-conditioned trains of three coaches each at 120 kmph between short distance stations to reduce the travelling time.
 
 Kumar, who took over as DRM recently, said the Indian Railway Station Development Corporation Limited (IRSDCL) is in process of preparing a master plan for Nagpur station. “Railway Board had invited entries through competition. It will see which design fits Nagpur station. Our advice would also be taken,” said Kumar.
 
 On the third and fourth line between Nagpur-Wardha, Kumar said work on at least 12 bridges is in progress. “Land acquisition was an issue, and we expect these lines to be completed by 2022,” he said. 
 
 Speaking about the Railway Board selecting Chandrapur and Ballarshah as most beautiful stations across India, and awarding Rs10 lakh prize, the DRM said, “Nagpur being the gateway to tiger capital, we plan to beautify it on similar lines, sending a message of forest and tiger conservation.”
 
 Kumar said safety and improving amenities for passengers will be top on priority. On catering facilities for passengers, senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) KK   said, “We will increase number of food stalls at various platforms. Three new stalls will come up at home platform, and one each on platform 4 and 5.”
 
 Mishra said a proposal has also been sent to the Railway Board to regularize train between Ajni and Karmali (Goa). “It is operating as a weekly special train. Owing to 85% occupancy, we have proposed to regularize it,” said Mishra.
 
 
