MUMBAI: The   came in for strong criticism on Wednesday for being silent spectators to rioting, stone-pelting and damage to public property by protesters. While many slammed the police for not taking action even when they saw crowds running riot, some others, especially those responsible for delivery of emergency services, said in several areas, they saw police “escorting” mobs. Aretired police officer said police should have at least shown their presence at some sensitive spots from where they were missing.

  
  Some senior police officers told TOI the reason cops often do not take action is fear of repercussions from mobs and the sense of insecurity they have because they do not get any help from the police and home department if they are accused in any way. And when there are clear instructions from the home department that they should not use lathi-charge, tear gas or firearms to control crowds, as observers said there were on Wednesday, they will not take any chances.
 
 “What happened to assistant inspector   accused in the 1997 firing at  ? He was indicted and given alife term. Plus, he alone had to face departmental action. The government did not come to his rescue. Who will take action if this is the state of affairs?” asked a police officer requesting anonymity. Some cops said a “no action” strategy could be adopted to prevent spread of violence. “What if action were taken and something had gone wrong? We were concerned about law and order,” said an officer.
 
 Y P  , ex-IPS officer, said, “If there is damage to property, police generally do not use force for fear of inquiry. If they do, a mob could turn violent and if there are deaths, there is fear of criminal prosecution, so they want to stay safe.”
 
 P S Pasricha, ex-DGP, said, “They had intelligence about the possibility of riots after the state saw sporadic violence. Police should have been more prepared. Another thing is policemen are always criticized - for over-action if they act and inaction if they don’t.” 
 
