Industrialists of the region were badly hit by introduction of GST and demonetisation and now want the government to compensate them by slashing GST and corporate tax rates in the budget. They also want it to take concrete steps to actually increase ease of doing business.

 Chandramohan Randhir, president of MIDC Industries Association Hingna, wants GST rates to be drastically slashed in some cases. “Earlier, job work attracted 5% central excise. Now it attracts 18% GST, which should be slashed. Plastic processing units used to be levied 6% central excise but now they attract 18% GST. Most of these units are small-scale and they have laid off people or have closed down altogether unable to bear losses,” he said.
 
 The industrialist wants government to start a steel development centre in Hingna MIDC. Randhir also wants income tax exemption limit to be raised and income tax rates to be reduced.
 
 Hemant Ambaselkar, former president of Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA), feels that government should take concrete steps to make doing business easy. “They have made several announcements regarding ease of doing business but nothing has changed on ground. We face the same trouble in starting a new unit that we used to face a year ago. Land transfer should be made easier and it should not be difficult to hire and fire employees,” he said.
 
 Ambaselkar further said that stamp duty should be reduced. “Five years ago if the duty was Rs10, it has now increased to Rs100. This is the reason for reluctance of companies to take over sick industries. Thousands of crores are stuck up in sick industries,” he added.
 
 Pravin Tapadia, former president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said that corporate tax should be slashed by at least 2 to 3%. “Long-term capital gains should continue. Ease of doing business should be real and not restricted to announcements. Funds must be sanctioned for power sector so that rural areas get round the clock electricity. This will boost business. One time settlement (OTS) must be introduced for small scale industries and the promoter must be allowed to continue running the unit,” he added.
 
 Madhusudan Rungta, president of MIDC Industries Association Chandrapur, said the   suffered a lot due to GST and it expected relief on major fronts this time. “This is an election budget and we hope that GST rates will be slashed on industrial products. Law will be made stricter for delayed payment as industry always suffers from this practice. There should sops for small scale industries,” he added.
 
 Industry wish list
 
 Reduce GST rates on job work, plastic processing and industrial products in general
 
 Reduce corporate tax by at least 2 to 3%
 
 Increase ease of doing business in real sense
 
 Start steel development centre at MIDC Hingna
 
 Reduce income tax rates to boost consumer spending
 
 Reduce stamp duty to realistic levels
 
 Introduce OTS for small scale industries
 
 Ensure round the clock power in rural areas to boost business
 
 
