PATNA: The demand for stylish and glazed clay vessels, of late, has decreased in the city as pottery as a profession seems to be dying out slowly.

 Sagar Shah, who has been selling clay   for the past 15 years near Panchmukhi Mandir on  , said, “People used to buy clay pots before refrigerators reached every home. Gone are the days when I would sell 100 to 150 clay vessels in a day. However, the number has come down to 20-30 now. These days, people buy earthen pots only during the festivals. As Chaitra Navratri has started, I have sold some earthen pots after a long gap.” Shah added he sold only three pots in the last two days. The clay pots are priced in the range of Rs 25 to Rs 200, depending on the size. 
 
  Kumari, another potter, was seen sitting near her shop at Bansghat, tediously colouring a few pots. “I have not sold even one product today. With even poor people are buying refrigerators these days, there are no takers for clay pots,” she said.
 
 Fourteen-year-old Vijay   was seen manning his father’s shop some distance away from Rajni’s shop. “We have been potters for several generations – 60 years to be precise. My father remembers the time when he used to sell at least 100 pots a day. These days, we sell less than 20 pots per day. Even though summer is approaching, sales have not increased,” Kumar said.
 
 He added people buy earthenware, such as kadhai and diyas, only during   and  . “With the beginning of Chaitra Navratri, it is expected that sales will increase,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, city doctors said there was no scientific reason to back the belief that drinking water stored in earthen pots was good for health.
 
 Dr   of   said though there was no scientific reason to suggest that water stored in earthen pots has health advantages, it has been observed that such water is more acceptable to the body. “Very cold water can be reactive, especially for asthma patients. Drinking chilled water can also lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary disorders, sinus infections and other respiratory problems,” Dr Kumar added.
 
 Dr Ravi Kirti, who is posted in the medicine department of All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, too said asthma patients and people with respiratory issues should avoid drinking chilled water. “Water stored in earthen pots remains at a temperature that is comfortable to drink for such patients,” he said.
 
 
