AHMEDABAD: After facing sluggish trend following the implementation of the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act (RERA) and Goods and Services Tax (GST), the real estate sector seems to be on the revival path. The demand for affordable housing is gaining traction on the back of stable prices and the offer of government subsidy for home buyers. The demand in property market is expected to improve further by Diwali this year, say real estate developers.

 While the demand for affordable homes is on the rise, high-end and ultra-luxury apartments are also finding more takers in the city, said developers participating in the 12the edition of The   Expo 2018, which began on Saturday at the   in Ahmedabad. The two-day exhibition is showcasing more than 100 projects by 19 real estate developers. “There is demand for two and three bedroom-hall-kitchen (BHK) units priced between Rs 30 lakh to Rs 60 lakh,” said  , director marketing, Suryam Developers.
 
 “The affordable housing segment has seen an uptick in demand mainly on account of stable prices, subsidy under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna and 8% GST for housing units under 60 square metres ,” said Niket Shah of Bakeri group. “Enquires for affordable homes and their conversion into sales have risen.”
 
 The demand for affordable housing has increased as there has been no rise in prices of properties over the past two years and there is a fear among consumers that prices will now go up, said  , chairman, Swati Construction. “Consumers’ fear is not misplaced as land and operation cost of realtors have now increased,” he said. 
 
 Realtors also agreed that new launches have declined after the implementation of RERA. However, they are optimistic that this trend will change by Diwali this year. “There is also a demand-supply gap in affordable segment as there have been hardly any new launches after the implementation of RERA and GST,” said Shah.
 
 Real estate players also said that there should be a single tax for the real estate sector. Hosted by The Times Property, the expo is displaying an array of realty projects including budget homes, 1 to 5 BHK apartments, villas, bungalows, row houses and non-agricultural plots.
 
 
