BENGALURU/ KGF (Kolar): With theth D-Day fast approaching, the   and BJP on Monday escalated their war of words, targeting each other over corruption.

 Addressing a public rally in Kolar Gold Fields, BJP national president Amit Shah gave a spin to its ‘Congressmukt Bharat’ slogan, saying the need of the hour is to make Bengaluru “mukt” (free) of Congress leaders. He wanted Bengalureans to make their city “Roshan Baig, K J George and N A Haris mukt”.
 
 “The city is under the control of Baig, George and Haris. It is high time people send them home and elect BJP,” he said.
 
 Taking exception to AICC president   talking about ending corruption, Shah claimed that the same Rahul had torn up a copy of an ordinance to tackle graft. “He did it to save the UPA government and certain individuals, including former   chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav. Now he is talking about corruption. The Congress is for corruption and cannot support anti-corruption moves by any government,” he said.
 
 Shah tweeted later in the evening: “Rahul Gandhi tore off the ordinance brought by Manmohan Singh to save   when in power but now goes to meet the convicted leader in fodder scam to take his support for 2019 elections. This dual face of Rahul Gandhi is exposed.”
 
 The fear of defeat in   forced   to contest from Badami as well, but he will lose both seats, he claimed.
 
 Brushing aside allegations by Siddaramaiah that central assistance to Karnataka had come down drastically under Modi, Shah said that under the 13th Finance Commission allocation, when UPA was in power, the state had got Rs 88,000 crore. “The state has got Rs 2.19 lakh crore under the 14th Finance Commission recommendations. This apart, the NDA government has allocated Rs 2,600 crore for Namma Metro project and Rs 960 crore for the Smart City programme,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Shah held a series of meetings at his house in Bengaluru before leaving for KGF. He met several RSS leaders during the day and ended his campaign with a public meeting in Gauribidanur. With the Kolar visit, Shah has covered all 30 districts of Karnataka.
 
