SHIMLA: With cabinet berths filled at one go by   chief minister  , those left are now eyeing for the posts of chief parliamentary secretary ( ) besides chairman and vice-chairman of various boards and corporations. While the CM seems to be in no hurry to fill these posts, aspirants are lobbying hard right from Himachal Pradesh to Delhi to cement their places. 

 The previous   government had appointed 9 CPS and an NGO had even moved court against it. Since cabinet formation, Thakur has not given any indication when these posts of CPS would be filled. With several districts could not be given representation in the cabinet, these could be represented in the government with the appointment of CPS. 
 
 Besides, there are around 28 boards and corporation in the state where appointments for the posts of chairman and vice-chairman would be made. According to sources, the government will start making above appointments in a systematic manner after the winter session of the assembly. As majority of boards and corporations are running into losses and the state is under debt of Rs 46,500 crore and planning to seek a bailout package from the Union government, it would be interesting to see how Jai Ram Thakur approaches the issue.
 
 Already the resource mobilization committee constituted by the previous Congress government in its report had recommended reorganization and streamlining of departments and grouping together of related departments. It has also recommended downsizing staff strength in various departments.
 
 The report has mentioned that the existing departments, corporations and boards covering inter-related subjects, activities and functions should be merged. The committee report says that a large number of corporations are running in losses. “These loss making corporations should be closed and staff of such corporations should be made eligible for voluntary retirement scheme or may be posted in other departments where there is vacancy and requirement,” it added.
 
 
