THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The bad press resulting from the leakage of question papers has prompted the   ( ) to experiment with a technology-driven system, where encrypted question papers would be sent directly to exam centres. Sources in the state education department said they too are mulling adoption of a similar system for the SSLC exam. But experts and stakeholders differ on the ways to evolve a foolproof system.

 CBSE exam centres across the country have been trying out the system for the past three days. The board’s regional officer said the new system would be used for distribution of question papers during the Class XII economics exam, scheduled on April 25. As per the system, CBSE would mail the encrypted question papers directly to the school principal an hour before the exam time. The school authorities, under camera surveillance, would unlock the encrypted document by using the key sent by CBSE authorities, via SMS or Whatsapp, to the principal. Within a short period, the school authorities, armed with heavy duty printers, photocopier and power back-up, are supposed to copy the question papers and distribute them to students. A similar system is currently being followed successfully by the State Technological University.
 
 K V Mohankumar, director of public instructions, said the state education department too is thinking about utilizing technology for the conduct of SSLC examination in future. “We are following a foolproof system, which makes leakages almost impossible. One set of question paper is selected from eight sets and only the examination chairman is privy to all of them. However, he too would be unaware about the set chosen for the exam. The question papers are printed at security presses outside the state and are kept in strong rooms under police guard. But, yes, in the changing times, we need to migrate to technology-driven systems. But such a shift would demand more deliberations and it’s up the government to take a final call,’’ he said.
 
 CBSE school managements too are not against introduction of online mechanism for question paper distribution. But they are apprehensive of the risks involved if it is introduced without home work.
 
 “I am not against the use of technology. But robust infrastructure is the key for success while following such a system. The objection is towards the introduction of the new mechanism without ensuring adequate infrastructure facility in all schools. I wonder, whether it is possible to ensure robust internet connectivity and flawless power back-up in at all exam centres across the country. Any lapse at a remote school in   or Jharkhand would result in hardships for our students in Kerala’’, said  , who chairs two CBSE schools in Kollam. He also wanted the board to consider various regions separately to minimise the impact of question paper leaks.
 
 K S Radhakrishnan, former chairman of the   Public Service Commission, who introduced online examination for select posts, however, cautioned against embracing the technology for exams of large magnitude.
 
 “Recent reports prove that the technology that we boast about is in its infancy. People lose the money in their bank account, without any trace.
 
 Then how can we be sure that questions won’t lose their secrecy when distributed online? I would say that it would be foolish to replace a proven legacy system with an uncertain technology. It may be true that the legacy system is costlier. But, still, I think it is too early to dump the legacy system,’’ he said.
 
