NOIDA: Shopkeepers and residents around   in Sector 12 have complained that   for their use have not had any maintainance work in a long time.  , the RWA general secretary of Sector 51 who also owns a shop in the market, said he had raised the matter with nearly all departments of the   but to no avail.

 Sanjeev said he had written to Authority CEO   to look into the problem and identify the particular departments responsible for the maintenance of the public toilets.
 
 “The condition of these public toilets is pathetic. There is one such set of toilets in a corner of   in F block. Since I have a shop in the market, I’ve requested nearly all the top officials of different departments of the Noida Authority to look into its sanitation and maintenance as these have been constructed for public use. But no one took the responsibility for cleaning these toilets and directly refused, stating that cleaning and maintenance of the toilets was not their duty,” said Sanjeev.
 
 The RWA general secretary said when he requested project engineer MK Bhardwaj during their monthly meeting on March 22 to take up the cleaning of these public toilets, “he refused saying the work is not related to work circle 1 and he advised me to request senior project engineer (SPE), health”. 
 
 Sanjeev then approached the SPE as well as the project engineer, health, but both allegedly refused to take up the matter.
 
 Sanjeev said he had also approached Mahendra Prakash, the deputy director of work circle 1, horticulture department.
 
  “But the deputy director also refused to undertake the responsibility for the maintenance of these toilets. He said these toilets were constructed outside the boundary of the park,” said Sanjeev.
 
 The residents and shop owners said the toilets had not been cleaned for days. “We do not use these toilets as they are not clean and very unhygienic,” said Rakesh Kumar, a visitor to the market. After the repeated refusals, Sanjeev has now written to CEO Alok Tandon and also sent a copy to the ACEO RK Mishra. 
 
 “I have written to both the CEO and the ACEO of the Noida Authority to look into the matter and identify the departments who will take up the responsibility of cleaning and maintain-ing these toilets at the earliest,” he said.
 
 
