NEW DELHI: World-class facilities in the national capital are not going to be limited to just   but also extend to the entertainment arena as the   is going to get an   to rival the likes of Sentosa in Singapore and Sea Life in Sydney.

 To consist of an interpretation centre and glass tunnels with marine life visible overhead, the aquarium would be built by utilising the structure of an old waterbody.
 
 
  
  
 
 Zoo officials said that the design is currently being discussed with inspiration and concepts to be taken from underwater aquariums in Singapore, Australia, China and USA. To be built over an area of 25,000 square metres, the aquarium is part of the long-term Delhi zoo master plan 2031.
 
 “It will be a world-class facility, something that will attract thousands of visitors every day. We are looking at the best designs possible following which the project will be submitted to the ministry of environment and forests. Visitors will be able to learn about marine life through the interpretation centre and view aquatic animals through the glass panels and tunnels,” Renu Singh, Delhi zoo director told TOI.
 
 Officials said the aquarium will be filled with water from the Yamuna after it undergoes several stages of treatment. Aquatic animals native to the country, north India in particular, will be procured by the zoo.
 
 Singh said visitors are likely to be charged an additional fee to visit the aquarium. “The maintenance costs are likely to be quite high so visitors may be charged a separate fee to view the aquarium,” she added.
 
 “The zoo master plan requires both the interpretation centre and aquarium to be built by 2031. We will achieve this well ahead of schedule,” Singh said, adding that it will take at least two years to complete the project.
 
 Similar aquarium facilities abroad utilise stronger materials, such as fiberglass-reinforced plastic with glass structures, which is suitable only if around 1,000 litres of water is used.
 
 The zoo is already trying to bring several new animals, like the leopard cat, fishing cat and smooth Indian otter, to make it more attractive to visitors. It was earlier probing the possibility of using a toy train in its premises as well.
 
 
