GURUGRAM: A man who posed as South Asia head of a Dubai-based security and logistics firm has allegedly cheated at least three corporate executives in the NCR of Rs 30 lakh.

 Suave and articulate, the suspected con man, Dr Sidhik Abdul Rehman, claimed he was attached to the   embassy in India and was responsible for the security of central ministers and bureaucrats during their trips to the UAE. 
 
 Rehman used similar tricks — either offered to rent properties from his targets or promised them flight tickets for Europe or the USA at cheap rates on his firm’s ‘employee quota’ — in all the three cases that have come to light so far. 
 
 While two of the victims, Anisha Motwani and Harish Trivedi, are Delhi residents, the third person, Poonam Yadav, lives in Ghaziabad.
 
 In all the three cases, he used ‘common contacts’ to zero in on his targets, bragged about his ‘contacts’ in the UAE embassy and drove expensive cars like BMW to make an impression and deceive people.
 
  Earlier this year, Motwani, a senior innovation and brand consultant, fell into the trap of Rehman and allegedly ended up losing Rs 20 lakh. Motwani, who owns a villa in Unitech Nirvana Country in Gurugram’s Sector 50, had met Rehman through a common contact.
 
 Rehman offered to take Motwani’s villa on rent for Rs 1 lakh per month. Eventually, a lease agreement was prepared, according to which he was supposed to pay Rs 3 lakh as security deposit and Rs 1 lakh as advance rent. However, he paid only Rs 1 lakh, claiming his   in India was yet to be activated.
 
 “Rehman contacted us in the first week of December (2017), expressing interest in renting our villa in Nirvana Country. This is a fully furnished villa, which was earlier leased out as a company guest house to General Motors India,” said Motwani.
 
 According to her, the man appeared decent and friendly and offered to help her, if needed, with his high-profile connections. About a month later, in the first week of January, Rehman called Motwani and offered a very good travel package to Europe from ‘employees’ quota’ . It was a five-country packaged tour at Rs 66,200 per person with an additional charge of Rs 21,500 per head for visa and insurance covers.
 
 Unable to ignore this lucrative offer, 17 people, including Motwani’s family members and friends, accepted the offer, paying a total of Rs 17 lakh including various taxes. “Rehman then said since the package was available only for the employees, we will have to make the payment to him,” Motwani told police in her complaint. 
 
 When tickets did not arrive in time, Motwani checked with the airline but there was no such reservation in her name. She said she then met the director of visa and counselling services at the UAE embassy in Delhi, who reportedly said that Rehman was not attached to the embassy. 
 
 Preliminary probe revealed all the documents, including the employment permit and business cards, furnished by Rehman for the lease agreement were fake. Subsequently, a complaint was filed at Ranjit Nagar police station (Delhi). “Police are probing the complaint filed by Anisha Motwani and efforts are on to nab the accused,” said a cop from Ranjit Nagar police station.
 
 In February, Rehman allegedly tricked Harish Trivedi, the group CEO of a healthcare company, into coughing up around Rs 7 by offering him return air tickets for Europe from employees’ quota at Rs 40,000 per person. “Since the person who introduced Rehman to me is a trustworthy person and works with me, I agreed to take the offer. I paid Rs 1.60 lakh for four tickets and an additional Rs 1.4 lakh for hotel bookings and sight-seeing passes,” Trivedi alleged. 
 
 He added that Rehman had asked him to transfer the amount to Rehman’s wife’s account as “employees can’t sell tickets to anyone, but his wife will buy the tickets and pay from her account”.
 
 Two days later, Rehman called him again and allegedly offered return air tickets for New York for Rs 50,000 each. Rehman claimed the economy class tickets were valid for 500 days. “Since everything went well with the first transaction, I bought eight tickets and transferred Rs 4 lakh to his wife’s account,” Trivedi added.
 
 After waiting for a few days, when tickets did come, Trivedi said he called the airline’s office to find out about the bookings and eventually came to know that Rehman had duped him.
 
 Trivedi, who was in Thane (Maharashtra) then, filed a complaint at Thane police station. Preliminary probe revealed that the bank account to which Trivedi had transferred the money belonged to a senior citizen. Rehman had cheated her earlier and took her signed cheque book and debit card.
 
 In June last year, Poonam, the marketing head with a healthcare company in Manesar, was cheated by Rehman. Yadav had given her flat in Ghaziabad to Rehman on rent. But he allegedly did not pay a single penny, instead took away all the valuables, including air conditioners, LED TVs etc., after staying in the flat for a month. An FIR was filed at   police station then.
 
 
