VISAKHAPATNAM: In what could be the first such initiative in the country, the existing   network in the state could soon be used to launch a ‘Work From Home For   Masses’ scheme.

 As of now, people in the rural areas who have been availing internet facility via FiberNet at an affordable cost of less than Rs 150 per month, are mostly using the service to watch movies or surf on their smartphones.
 
 Not happy with the way the initiative is being utilised by villagers, the government now plans to empower rural folks through FiberNet and has come up with the novel idea of facilitating work-from-home jobs to eligible unemployed youth and  , whose minimum educational qualification needs to Class X pass. US-based First American Corporation and a Europe-based BPO is also supporting the government’s plan.
 
 The jobs would mostly be that of data entry operators. The companies which will award the work will pay the salary/perks through digital mode. The employees will have to spend on their own to buy personal computers. Each user will be closely monitored through webcam to check the authenticity of their work — like if they are doing the work themselves or through others.
 
 Confirming this to TOI, J A Chowdary, chief secretary of department of IT, AP government, said the main objective behind the plan is to provide employment opportunities to unemployed youth, and housewives, in the rural areas by giving them work-from-home jobs through the FiberNet network. 
 
 “This scheme will not only help in improving the economic condition of rural masses, but will also prevent farmers’ suicide in the state. The farmers’ sons and daughters can support them during crisis as they will be able to earn by sitting at home,” Chowdary said.
 
 He added that the project would most probably be launched in the state within the next six months. Before that there will be a trial run with a pilot project to get an idea about the scheme.
 
 Y Appala Reddy, vice-president of India Youth for Society, said any programme or scheme will be viable if its sustainability is longer. The schemes and programmes in rural India should be drafted or designed to sync easily with rural culture, Reddy opined.
 
 
