Sunitha.Rao Bengaluru: The chief metropolitan magistrate, Bengaluru City, has convicted two men of assaulting a doctor and sentenced each to one-year simple imprisonment. The move has brought cheer to the medical fraternity. “In recent times, there has been a rise in attacks on doctors and medical establishments. The impact may be worrying. Doctors will start practising defensive medicine and focus on guarding themselves from patients’ families, instead of taking risk and recommending the best treatment,” chief metropolitan magistrate S Nataraj said in his order dated January 29, 2018. “It must be remembered that healing a patient’s wound is a doctor’s foremost duty, but it is equally vital for him to maintain his dignity and stand up for his rights when he performs his duty,” the judge added. The two men, M Venkatesh, resident of Doddamuddenahalli in Devanahalli taluk, and Manohar R from Jakkur village, have been fined Rs 5,000 each. If they fail to pay, they will have to spend another three months in jail.  The accused were convicted under Karnataka Prohibition of Violence against Medicare Service Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Service Institutions Act, 2009 and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. On April 16, 2016, Pillamma, 65, was brought to Columbia Asia Hospital on Ballari Road. She complained of severe breathlessness and chest pain and passed away the same day. Two of her relatives picked up a fight with the duty doctor in the emergency ward and allegedly hit him in the face and head. The doctor and a hospital security staffer were abused and assaulted, and the former was threatened with dire consequences. The hospital filed a complaint against the duo at Amruthahalli police station. Box: Doctors hail verdict The judgment has been welcomed by the medical community. A senior doctor from a leading hospital said in many such cases of assault, hospitals withdraw the cases after the patients’ families plead with them. Dr Alexander Thomas, president, Association of Health Providers’ of India (AHPI), the verdict judgment is one of its kind in the recent past, given the increasing incidence of doctors being targeted. “Violence in any form and anywhere is unacceptable. Medical professionals should be provided a congenial environment to give their best service to patients,” he said. 