GURUGRAM: In a first, the department of town and country planning ( ) will start approving   on the   system under which one can apply in the morning and get approval by the evening within five hours. Earlier, the department approved building plans manually which would take a minimum of five days. 

 The online system is expected to become operational by the end of February. “We are already approving building plans in five working days. Now, we are going to do it in five hours,” said district town planner (DTP) RS Batth, adding that the aim of the new system was to minimise human intervention, simplify the system and bring transparency in the process. 
 
 Initially, the online system will cater to building plans for individual and industrial plots. Later, it would be used in cases of all kinds of buildings. Only new plans for buildings (up to 15 metres of height) will be approved through the online system. For revision of building plans, one will have to go through the manual system.
 
 For this, the   government has come up with Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS). The rollout of the system is in the pilot stage in the DTCP. Subsequently, it will be used by other departments. Architects, engineers and plots owners will have to undertake one-time registration before using the system.
 
 The online system will benefit a large number of people: on an average, 10 applications for building plans are submitted before the DTP, Gurgaon, daily. The department receives nearly 300 applications in a month.
 
 At present, building plans are checked and verified manually and pass through at least five levels in the DTCP office. Under the OBPAS, a web-based system, only pre-formatted drawing will be accepted from applicants and the rest of the process will be as per Haryana building plan code 2017. The system is expected to ease the work of applicants.
 
 Officials said a single-point web application would start off the process and multiple agencies could access it, making checks simple and limited to a single window. The portal will also enable monitoring and tracking of functions performed by multiple agencies and quick status update through SMS or email. “Single point for all approvals and self-certification on low risk and industrial buildings will be enabled,” said Batth.
 
 The software will have many components, including a citizen portal for architects, engineers and plot owners, a window containing department applications with workflow, a department verification engine, an interface for the public, a mobile application for site inspection (as applicable), an easy-to-use drawing tool for architects and engineers.
 
 
