NEW DELHI: The  's March 20 decision to dilute the mandatory arrest provision in the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was based on a measly 26% conviction rate in cases under the stringent law, but a senior advocate and former law officer had tweeted attributing upper   to the judges on the bench.

 A bench of Justices Adarsh K Goel and U U Lalit also took into account amicus curiae and senior advocate Amarendra Saran's submissions. "The amicus submitted that several offences may solely depend upon the complainant's version which may not be found to be true," the bench recorded in its judgment. "One-sided version, before trial, cannot displace the presumption of innocence. Such version may at times be self-serving and for extraneous reason. Jeopardising liberty of a person on an untried unilateral version, without verification or tangible material, is against fundamental rights," the amicus had said according to the judgment. The bench also recorded additional solicitor general Maninder Singh's opposition, on the Centre's behalf, to dilution of the Act's provisions.
 
 In 2016, over 6,200 complaints were found to be false; of the 15,638 cases decided by courts in 2015, 11,519 cases resulted in acquittal, discharge or withdrawal of complaint. Only 4,119 cases, or 26%, resulted in conviction. After analysing numerous judgments, the bench said arrest was seen as a tool for harassment.
 
 Three days after the judgment, senior advocate and the first woman additional solicitor general  , who held the post during UPA-2, in a tweet cast "upper caste" bias on the SC judges while accusing them of diluting the Act to "protect Brahmins". She also lamented the absence of "SC/ST judges" in the SC.
 
 To a TOI query, Jaising said, "Kindly note this is not the first time this is happening. When it comes to women, the same bench in an identical judgment did give a very similar judgment and this reads like a cut-paste judgment. (The same bench had diluted arrest provision under IPC's anti-dowry provision and a larger bench is reconsidering the judgment.) "Please remember, there too, there was no representation of women on the bench… The 'noting about us without us' is a very wellknown way of expressing the view that there should be participation of the affected communities …in which decisions are taken about them.
 
 "This is not to do with anyone's motive, least of all the judges, but an academic critique about the way in which the SC functions and its unrepresentative character. It is shocking Supreme Court has only one woman judge and no efforts are made to ensure proportionate representation of women on the bench. I'm sorry it comes across to you as an 'aspersion' on judges...."
 
