KOCHI: The   (CCRC) has got a shot in the arm with the   (KIIFB) giving final approval for disbursing Rs 379 crore for the project. The approval from the KIIFB will help start the construction of the project within a couple of months as the funds can be released this fiscal itself.

 The project has already got several key approvals including the one from   (SEIAA). “KIIFB has sanctioned an amount of Rs 379.73 crore for Cochin Cancer Centre,” said health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan. Officials with the   (INKEL), the nodal agency for the project, are completing the procedures for floating tender. The tender for constructing the building of the CCRC will be floated within five to seven days.
 
  
  
 
 “The firms should submit their bids within 21 days of floating the tender after which technical evaluation of the project would be held. Once the technical evaluation is over, commercial bids can be opened,” said   M G, deputy general manager, INKEL. “If the amount quoted by the winning firm is less that the estimated cost of the project, we will sent letter of award to the winner immediately and the firm should start work within 15-30 days of getting the letter. So, the work can be started within two months from now,” he said. If the quoted amount is above estimated cost, it would require certain approvals and would take some more time to start the work.
 
 Meanwhile, INKEL would be awarding the tender for the preparation works like landscaping within three or four days. “Preliminary works can be started immediately and completed within two months,” Vijayakumar said.
 
 According to CCRC authorities, the centre would soon be equipped to perform surgeries. “Equipment required for surgeries would reach us soon. The medical college authorities are expected to hand over the operation theatre within a few days after completing the renovation work,” said Dr P G Balagopal, superintendent, CCRC. More facilities, including one for mammograms, would be started soon, he said.
 
 The cancer centre will have a total built-up area of 4.8 lakh sq ft. Departments like paediatric oncology, community oncology, telemedicine and yoga and integrated medicine, cancer registry, MRD and data centre, bulk drug and general store, guest rooms and mortuary would be built in the first phase. As per the plan, the work should be completed within 600 days. All the works including procurement and installation of equipment should be completed by the time.
 
