BENGALURU: The recently notified disability law has taken a convoluted view of thalassemia patients, say those suffering from the blood disorder.

 Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder in which a patient’s body cannot produce enough red blood cells (RBC). The person needs to be supplemented with RBC transfusions every 2-3 weeks, depending on the severity of the condition. 
 
 Patients are particularly upset with norms prescribed in the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act 2016 in evaluating thalassemia as a disability and also the mandate that certificates should be renewed every year. Thalassemia patients have to live with the disease, if they cannot afford bone marrow transplant.
 
 According to Rajat Agarwal, project in charge at Sankalp, a network of blood banks that works for thalassemia patients, the law is flawed in the evaluation of the condition as a disability.
 
 “Patients with badly managed thalassemia will have high serum ferritin values (reflecting iron stored in the body). If the patient is regular on iron chelation medicine and transfusion, the values get better. But the law has made serum ferritin a criterion for issuing disability certificate. Should a patient ignore health for the sake of certificate,” he asked.
 
 Patient groups say that instead of following standards from the west and simply certifying those with blood transfusion dependency as thalassemia patients, the law insists that only those with serious and life-threatening complications can avail full benefits provided by the law.
 
 Severely anaemic persons can also show high serum ferritin values and even they can get a disability certificate under the law, argue patient groups.
 
 The law does not assure any treatment, primary care, lab medicines, lab facilities and day care centres thalassemia patients, Rajat added.
 
 “The medical gradations mentioned in the gazette are fine to understand a person’s medical condition and how it should be managed. But what benefits does a person get by being called disabled? The gazette is silent about the social and financial benefits a person may get. Measures to be taken for prevention of new cases are also missing,” says Dr Latha Jagannathan, medical director, managing trustee of  , who works with thalassemia patients.
 
 “All thalassemia majors are transfusion dependent. We can’t be applying for disability certificate every year. It’s a genetic disorder and we are disabled from birth. There are chances that the disorder can lead to multi-organ failure. Going by this, the government will be giving us benefits only when we are on our deathbed,” rued Namitha Kumar, a thalassemia patient, who runs a healthcare unit.
 
 Patient groups are planning to appeal to the Uunion government about the issues they have in the disability law.
 
 Rajat regretted the the inaction of the state government in dealing with problems faced by thalassemia patients. “A year ago, the state government announced guidelines to treat thalassemia patients. But, till today, no rules have been framed. Not a single tablet has been procured by the state government to help thalassemia patients,” he pointed out.
 
 The points are so confusing that anyone with mild anaemia can go seek a certificate, say patient groups. 
 
 THE SUFFERING LOT
 
 It’s estimated that there are over one lakh thalassemia patients in India, with 12,000 patients getting added every year.
 
 As per a 2005 Indian   ( ) study, prevalence of thalassemia in the general population is zero to 3%. Every year, 10,000 children with thalassemia major are born in India. Of these, 50% die before the age of 20 due to poverty and lack of treatment. 
 
 
