YADADRI: As many as 88 girl students of a government residential school in   took ill on Saturday — 13 of them hospitalised — after allegedly drinking contaminated water. While 33 students were rushed to   for treatment, with complaints of cold, fever and throat infection, 13 among them were admitted in the paediatric ward as they were suffering from high fever.

 
 The rest of the ill students, from the Backward Classes Government Residential Girl’s Hostel in Motakondur, Yadadri district, were treated at the premises itself.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “This is a serious case of negligence on the part of the school and its management. It is not possible for these many students to fall ill on the same day. The school failed to diagnose students with fever and that is what led to more students falling sick,” said G Sambasiva  , district medical health officer, Yadadri adding that 10 days ago about 15 students were treated with same symptoms.
 
 Hinting at the possibility of students consuming contaminated water, the Yadadri district collector   said “The school has a borewell and an RO plant and we are seeing if the water that the students consumed is contaminated. The preliminary reports(chemical analysis) showed no contamination and now we are waiting for further reports (microbiological analysis of water).”
 
 The health officals said open drain in the premises is a concern and added that water samples are being checked for the presence of bacterial and other harmful elements.
 
 Lashing out at the principal, Rao said that the school should have intimated health officials earlier as students had been complaining of being unwell since Friday morning. “Yet, they failed to call us immediately. We were informed about it only on Saturday morning. That’s when we rushed our team of about 15 members to the hostel and provided the students with the required treatment and shifted some of them to the area hospital. We have also set up a medical camp on the premises and it will be in place till all the students are completely cured,” Rao said.
 
 Highlighting the sorry state of affairs at the school hostel, health officials said that more than 250 students are crammed into two dormitories and forced to use 12 washrooms. “The hostel and school operate out of rented building, which was an engineering college earlier. The officials rented the first floor of the building — eight rooms — and are running the hostel and school from there. The building has open drains and is ridden with other sanitation issues. It also lacks basic facilities like a compound wall,” said Rao adding that the remaining six rooms are used as kitchen and classrooms.
 
