Dream Diamonds   began on Saturday with a lot of sparkle and shimmer on the ramp.

 
  
 
 
  
  Designer- Suneet Varma, Model- Daman Brar (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 Dream Diamonds Delhi Times Fashion Week began with a lot of sparkle and shimmer on the ramp with designer Suneet Varma showcasing some of his best designs from his couture collection. From pearl embroidered lehengas and saris to shararas and contemporary sequined crop tops and skirts, the collection had a wide variety of designs that were created keeping in mind the choice of young, modern women today. What completed the glam yet traditional look were interesting headgears. There was a lot of emphasis on headgears and jewellery in the show and the designer told us that he didn’t just want to focus on clothes, but a complete look. He said, “We presented a spring collection with lot of interesting hand embroider and silhouettes. The designs with tassels, perfect fall and drapes were created to blend tradition and modernity. All the jewellery, crowns and headgears that you saw on the ramp were hand-made.”
 
 The show was choreographed with popular music of the 70s. Songs like ‘Chura Liyaa Hai Tumne Jo Dil Ko’ and ‘Jo Bhi Chahe Kahiye’ played in the background during the show.
 
 Talking about his association with Dream Diamonds Delhi Times Fashion Week, Suneet said, "It's great to be a part of this fashion week and to be doing this show here. My association with Delhi Times has been probably for more than two and a half decades. My career to a large extent has been encapsulated by the newspaper, so for me it is really exciting to associate with this fashion week."
 
 
 
 
 With an interesting use of metal and thread embroidery, designer Nikhita Tandon came up with a collection that was designed keeping in mind destination weddings. Gowns, well-fit dresses with intricate embroidery, tassels and fringes were part of the show. The designer said that through her recent collections, she has been focusing on the changing choices of the brides today. They no more look for traditional and bright colours to wear on different functions on their wedding day, they rather want to look chic, glam and choose dresses and gowns in subtle shades. “This collection is designed keeping in mind bachelor parties and cocktail nights before the wedding day. Since this is a spring summer line, it is fit for destination weddings,” said Nikhita and added that there is a lot of focus on embroidery in the collection. “The embroidery is a mix of metal and crystals. There are a lot of fringes, tassels, net trails with lace patching,” she said.
 
  
  Models in Nikhita Tandon's creations(BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Models in Nikhita Tandon's creations(BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 About the use of pastel shades in her collection, she said, “The trend in bridal wear has changed so much in last few years. Modern brides prefer to wear bright, traditional colours on the wedding day, for other functions they want something which is easy to carry and looks trendy.” About her participation in Delhi Times Fashion Week, she said, “I am very happy with this association. I have seen immense professionalism and good quality show production here.”
 
 
 
 Designer Anand Bhushan’s collection was a perfect evening wear for spring summer. Structured silhouettes with fitted jumpsuits, bodycon dresses, layering through sheer fabrics in dresses and blouses were the highlight of the collection. Since the collection was designed for spring summer, there were a lot of whites and pastel shades. Pants and tops in metallic shades added a bit of shimmer to an otherwise subtle collection. Talking about his collection, Bhushan said, “This collection was from our spring summer 2018 line and it takes its inspiration from flora and fauna from Northern Italy. There was a lot of organza, nets and brushed velvets in a subtle way coming together. I work with progressive textures and that was visible in the show. My collection is always inspired by my travels and artefacts that I collect and even this one was a lot influenced by my experiences as a travelller.” The designer added that it was a great experience for him to be showcasing at Delhi Times Fashion Week. “I have grown up reading Delhi Times, it was a great experience to be working for this show. When I was asked to do the show, I agreed immediately as it is the best way to connect with people as they associate with Delhi Times,” he said.
 
  
  Models with Anand Bhushan's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 
  
  Models with Anand Bhushan's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Anand Bhushan with the showstoppers (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Designer-   Model-  , fbb Colors Femina Miss India 2017 finalist (right)
 
 Niki Mahajan’s collection was perfect for a bridal trousseau with anarkalis, kurtas paired with pyjamas and skirts, lehengas and saris. The collection titled Yuvrani was inspired by a young princess. It was dominated by shades like peach, white and mint green. Interesting, elaborate floral headgears were used to add some colour to the look of the models on the ramp. The designer said that in this collection, she experimented with embroideries. One such experiment was embroidery inspired by polki jewellery. “There was a lot of mokaish, chikankari. I developed embroidery from polki jewellery and that was the first part of the collection showcased. Then came designs with mokaish. Each garment had very intricate embroidery,” said Niki and added that she worked with a lot of weaves like Banarasi along with fabrics like chiffon and georgette. 
 
 
  
  Models with Niki Mahajan's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Models with Niki Mahajan's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Niki Mahajan with her showstopper   (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
  ( )
 
  
  Designer- Christine Storm, Model-   (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 With tango dancers, live music performance by the designer herself and models shaking a leg on the ramp, Christine Storm’s show had just the right amount of drama. The US-based designer told us that she been “a recording artist all her life.” She showcased her collection that came with a message on recycling. The show was a mix of casual wear and party dresses. Some garments like a military green jumpsuit with minimal embroidery stood out in the collection, but the designer said that it was the last garment showcased in the show, one that was presented by actress and Miss Universal Peace and Humanity 2014 Ruhi Singh, was the special one. She said, “The collection is extremely important to me, especially the finale piece. As you know that repurposing (or recycling) clothes are the rage right now and the jacket I repurposed is a cherished gift. It is the first garment that I fell in love with. The story behind it is that it came from Korea, my brother-in –law, who I was very close to and who was serving in the navy, bought it from an antique story in Korea. Through it I wanted to show that whoever wore that jacket had hopes and dreams and family. I wanted people to understand that we should focus on peace and everybody on the planet wants peace.”
 
 Peacock motif was recurrent in her designs and Christine said that the motif represented her alliance with India. “We have friends here and I have always been fascinated with peacocks, so I incorporated it in the collection,” she said.
 
 
 
  
  Models with Christine Storm's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Models with Christine Storm's creations (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Christine Storm (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  
 
 
