Being an animal lover and a resident of Adimali, Advocate K Range and family lived a life close to nature, with a pet cat and dog for company. But they had no clue what awaited them when a friend once brought them an injured baby crow. “It had an injury in one of its feet and so I kept it inside the house and nursed it back to health. We didn’t want it to get attacked by other crows so continued to keep it inside the house and fed it too.” They had no idea whether it was male or female so just called it ‘Kakkachi’, with Kakkachi Range being the full name.

 For Kakkachi, its life was Range, his wife Sylvia and son Kunjappi, and it had no idea about the world outside. “Kakkachi was friends with our dog, Karuppayi Range. But he was rivals with our cat. What surprised me most was that Kakkachi could talk! I had never heard a crow talk before. My wife calls me ‘Rangeaa’ and Kakkachi would make the exact same sound. Our son Kunjappi would come running whenever Kakkachi called him by the name,” says Range.
 
  
 Kakkachi likes only fresh fish and would look at anything else with disdain, and leave it for the cat, says the advocate. But there was one thing that worried Range, which was that Kakkachi was scared of everyone and everything except them. “I wondered how it would survive on its own and would often keep it on the terrace to try to get it acclimatised to the outside world.”
  
 Around a year after Kakkachi came into their lives, Range and family had to go on a week-long trip. They had someone who could take care of their pets, but instead, Range decided to keep Kakkachi’s cage open, with a lot of food near it. “I thought it was time Kakkachi started its own life. My wife and son were worried it would be attacked by other crows but I decided to take the risk.”
 
  
 When they returned from the trip, there was no sign of Kakkachi. “My family blamed me and I too started feeling bad. But then, four days later, we heard a familiar croak. There was Kakkachi, back in our kitchen! But after having some snacks, it returned to the trees.”
 
 It became a pattern soon after, and Kakkachi started coming in after longer and longer intervals. “Once, Kakkachi went missing for 40 days and we thought it had gone for good. Then I read up on crows and found that its flying area can go up to 7 km. One day I was sitting in my front room chatting with a friend when a group of crows perched on the wall outside. One of them flew right in and sat on the edge of my sofa, fluttering its wings. I knew instantly that it was Kakkachi. It went to its cage in the kitchen and hung around for a while. I had no fish to give it, only bits of bread. But it happily ate it and went back to its friends. Mind you, none of them came inside the house. It was as if Kakkachi told them to wait outside.”
 
 Range is glad that Kakkachi has a life of its own today but hasn’t forgotten them either. “I just want Kakkachi to be happy,” he says. 
 
