NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s efforts for a clean city by installing twin bins may not be of much help due to their unplanned installations.

 
  
  
 
 During a spot survey, TOI found that the sanitation department of Dharampeth zone has installed 38 twin bin sets on either side of footpaths from Old Katol Naka Square to Law College Square. But, none of the bins are placed in crowded areas, especially in commercial places like   market, where it is needed the most. 
 
 “The installation of bins on this stretch is a waste of public money,” said Amrita Tidke a resident of Raj Nagar. According to her, only morning or evening walkers use the stretch. 
 
 A senior   official justified the NMC’s move stating that the stretch has been earmarked as Smart Street. So the bins were installed, he explained. He said that the bins have been installed not for houses or business entities but for pedestrians so that they can drop light garbage instead of littering the roads and footpaths.
 
 As a part of Swachh Bharat Mission, the NMC is supposed to place 1,200 twin bins across the city including commercial areas and major roads like Central Avenue, Wardha Road etc. Under this scheme, the Dharampeth zone has already installed 142 twin bins in various localities including the above mentioned patch. “The bins, each with a capacity of nearly 20kg, were mounted on the ground with a facility to be tilted for the contents to be emptied into a collection vehicle. Each spot will have two separate bins for dry and wet waste,” confirmed a senior sanitation officer.
 
 On the contrary, commercial areas like Gokulpeth has no bins. As a result, people, especially the vendors dump trash in the adjoining nullah thus defeating the very purpose for which the bins were placed.
 
 Civic activist and director of city-based NGO Centre for Sustainable Development (CSD) Leena Budhe said putting up waste collection bins in shopping areas is a welcome move. But in stretches like West High Court Road is a waste of public money. It clearly shows the lack of foresightedness. 
 
 In commercial places, at the same time, the NMC should also ensure that the bins should not overflow. 
 
 “If the NMC is investing so much, they should also deploy someone to monitor the bins. The person in charge should ensure no overflow of bins as they attract dogs and stray cattle,” she said.
 
 In 2009, the NMC had declared Nagpur a bin-free city by appointing Kanak Resources to collect garbage from every household and deliver it to the Bhandewadi dump yard. In order to fix the gaps in the garbage disposal mechanism, under Swachh Bharat Mission, the NMC is now installing bins at market places.
 
 
