COIMBATORE: In a setback to the construction of Ukkadam flyover, the resettlement of more than 300 sanitary workers residing at Athupalam and Ukkadam may be delayed further. 

 
 The sanitary workers submitted a petition to the national commission of safai karamcharis stating that they would not shift to Kovai Pudur and Vellalore housing units as they are more than 12km away from their current location. 
 
 The residents have been issued notices to vacate their homes and have been provided alternate homes at Kovai Pudur and Vellalore housing units constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. 
 
 They said they need to report to work at 5.30am every day and it would be impossible to do so if they were 12km away.
 
 The sanitary workers demanded that they should be allotted homes inside the city as they are working for the corporation. 
 
 The workers petitioned the member of the commission, Jagadish Hiremani, who headed a vigilance meeting for the safai karamcharis at the district collectorate on Monday. 
 
 He instructed the officials to look for an alternate land for the sanitary workers inside the city.
 
 The district revenue officer informed the member that the biometric survey and the allotment had almost been completed. 
 
 “These are the readily available houses closest to the site. There is no other alternate location,” he said, adding that the construction of the flyover will begin soon, and it would be impossible for the government to find other location now.
 
 One of the workers,  , said, “I report to the corporation officials at 5.30am every day and I stay near Athupalam. If I am shifted to Vellalore, how will I reach for work in time.” 
 
 Panneerselvam, a social worker, said most of the companies and government establishments have provided residences to their employees close to the offices. 
 
 “So, why should a sanitary worker be shifted out of the city to work inside the city. If the government intends, they can easily find alternate land in Race Course or near Murugan Theatre,” he said. 
 
 He added that the workers would not shift far away from the city. 
 
