NAGPUR: Anti-microbial resistance (AMR) or resistance to drugs used to treat infections caused by disease causing organisms kills 700,000 people across the world at present. This figure is projected to reach 10 million by 2050 if the use of antibiotics is not regulated properly and the doctors don’t stop overprescribing of the antibiotics.

 Dr Shrikant   from the city settled in   in the UK says the problem of development of resistance to various antibiotics will continue to compound unless clinicians, scientists and public health experts work in tandem. “And since there seems to be no antibiotic in the offing for another 10 years or so because no work is going on any antibiotic molecule, the danger of treating patients with existing antibiotics may not result in cure,” he said.
 
 Ambalkar was in the city to attend a two-day international conference titled ‘Emerging microbes and infection and its impact on public health’. The conference was organized by the Research Laboratory of Dr G M Taori Central India Institute of Medical Sciences (CIIMS).
 
 Citing examples of recent microbe attacks like the SARS (2003),   (2009), Ebola (2014), MERS (2012),   (2015), Dr Ambalkar, who is both a clinician and a scientist in clinical microbiology and tropical medicine in King’s   in Nottingham, said that the infection causing organisms were not just outnumbering man but were mutating and adapting to the human behaviour so fast that it was difficult to develop new antibiotics against them.
 
 Dr Ambalkar said that Nobel laureate Alexandra Fleming after his discovery of penicillin had warned in 1945 that the antibiotics might develop resistance. “But the medical community seems to have completely ignored it and reached today’s state. Since AMR has become a pandemic, the WHO has made a global action plan to curb the menace of prescribing antibiotics,” he said, adding, “almost all major groups of antibiotics like penicillin, cephalosporin, carbapenem and other classes of antibiotics have developed resistance thanks to the doctors not bothering of the consequences.”.
 
 All these superbugs, lethal or bad bus, whatever name they be called, have also become resistant due to their overuse in animals also. Antibiotics are used in animals for enhancing their growth. Almost 80% of the antibiotics like the Colistin are used in developed world on animals. It is last sought-after antibiotic.
 
 Majority of the superbugs have come due to poor infection control infrastructure in hospitals. Hence the hospital-based infections need to be identified and dealt with strongly to minimize mortality, the cost of treatment in hospitals, and minimizing the hospital stay.
 
 Dr Ambalkar said MERS may have killed Indians in these years but since there is no surveillance or awareness among doctors about it, India has no data on it. “There was a big controversy about the NDM1 (New Delhi Metallo Beta Lactmase) in which contaminated water had affected a Swedish patient in New Delhi. That’s why the organism was identified with the city’s name. But sadly, in all this, the actual issue of a new organism got lost,” Dr Ambalkar said.
 
 
