MUMBAI: CM Devendra   told TOI on Tuesday that two lakh additional farmers would be beneficiaries of the state government’s move to take the cutoff date for the farm loan waiver back to 2001. The date was revised in the wake of the farmers’ march on Monday. The current waiver scheme covers 46.5 lakh farmers, out of which 35.5 lakh have been provided relief already.

 Fadnavis also said that of the 36,000 cases related to transfer of forest land to tribals, 20,000 had been resolved. “I am sure the remaining 16,000 cases will be resolved as early as possible. Though I have sought six months’ time, I expect that the dispute will be resolved much before that,” the chief minister said.
  
  
 Meanwhile, sources said that the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena’s move to extend support to the CPM-led tribal farmers’ march prompted the CM to expedite the process of conducting negotiations with the   and take steps to ensure the stir was called off as early as possible. When the march began from Nashik on March 6, the organisers had not anticipated the kind of response they got. But as more cultivators joined the march along the route and the Congress, NCP and   jumped on to the bandwagon and offered unconditional support, the state government sat up and took notice.
 
 State Congress chief Ashok Chavan, NCP’s Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil, Sena president   and his son Aaditya Thackeray supported the agitation, with   too joining in. Sharad Pawar observed that if the chief minister had been more sensitive, he would have deputed a team of cabinet members to Nashik to pacify the tribals, and Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the Fadnavis-led government had deliberately ignored farmers.
 
 The farmers’ main demand was rights over forest land, and Fadnavis told them the issue would be resolved within six months. Sources said the CM knew that six months was too small a timeframe, but it had the effect of getting the farmers to call off their strike. “It was a victory for Fadnavis because the whole exercise was over in a few hours and the farmers left Mumbai, that too by a special train,” a senior   cabinet member told TOI.
 
 The cabinet member said the opposition could try to mobilize farmers in the run-up to the Lok Sabha and assembly polls. “We should have initiated a dialogue with the tribals in Nashik itself,” he added.
 
