VISAKHAPATNAM:   fires lit up a densely fogged city on the eve of Makara   in various neighbourhoods early on Sunday.

 The cloudy and foggy weather later gave way to a warm winter sunshine, setting the perfect mood for the Sankranti festival.
 
 This time, the three-day Sankranti festival comes on the back of a second Saturday, enabling Vizagites to enjoy an extended four-day weekend till Tuesday, thus adding to the festive cheer.
 
 Sunday saw family outings along the   and in tourist places such as   and  , where thousands of tourists arrived from the morning. Some of them headed to movie theatres as two big releases of actors   and Balakrishna hit the silver screen. Denizens were in their festive best, while the city wore a joyous look with kite festivals and rangolis.
 
 The ritualistic bonfire that is lit on the day of Bhogi, a day prior to Sankranti, is believed to consign one’s negativities to the flames and ushering in a new warmth of spring. Doorsteps are decorated with colourful rangolis, depicting various motifs of the harvest festival. 
 
 A kite-flying festival organised by the Marwari community was conducted on Beach Road as flying kites is an integral part of Sankranti celebrations. Kite stalls have also been set up in various parts of the city, especially along Beach Road, with vendors selling kites of all shapes.
 
 “Interestingly, while the main Sankranti day is about traditional and spiritual fervour, performance of pujas in our homes, visiting temples, eating vegetarian food and traditional sweets, the third day of the festival (Kanuma) is all about revelry. Chicken, meat and liquor shops remain jam-packed with customers as eating non-vegetarian food is a must on this day. People spend time with their friends and families and have fun to the fullest,” said P Shyamala of MVP Colony.
 
 Makara Sankranti is incomplete without its special cuisine. “Almost every household prepares traditional sweet dishes such as arisalu, garelu, pulihora adding to the flavour of Sankranti season, and share with our friends and dear ones,” said  , a retired teacher.
 
 
