MANALI:   trade has destroyed hundreds of families in Kullu. The greed to earn easy money has also put many foreigners in trouble as they deal not only in charas but also synthetic drugs like heroine, brown sugar and cocaine. Since 2003,   police have arrested 161 foreigners under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. While many have been convicted, some were also deported. 

 Police claim to have controlled cannabis cultivation in the district with the help of sustained campaigns but admit that its cultivation has not stopped completely. 
 
 Increasing cases of recovery of synthetic drugs is a new challenge before police now. Kullu police arrested 1,936 persons in 1,798 cases for possession of drugs from January 2003 to March 2018. Out of those arrested, 161 are foreigners — from Italy, US, UK, France, Israel and  . In almost all cases, they had come on tourist visa and were carrying drugs. There have even been cases where the accused were charged with visa overstay.
 
 Kullu additional superintendent of police Nishchint Singh Negi said six arrested accused were minors and 78 were women. “Most cases were registered for possession of charas and some were registered for possession of drugs like brown sugar, cocaine, heroin, LSD and MDM. Increasing cases of synthetic drugs are a matter of concern. They are supplied in small quantities at tourist places,” he said.
 
 Years ago, said sources, foreigners encouraged people in Kullu to cultivate cannabis to produce charas. They targeted the illiterate, unemployed and poor people in remote villages. There were some foreigners who even gave funds to locals to produce charas and themselves took consignments out of the state. The easy money coming from trade lured more people to take up this way of life. 
 
 “We have seized nearly 60kg charas this year alone. All police stations and posts have been directed to set up more nakas and increase patrolling,” Kullu superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said. She added that police are using technology to identify the land under cannabis cultivation. “Police are destroying cannabis crop every year. We are taking help of locals as well. Cannabis cultivation is decreasing every year.”
 
 
