Mumbai: The relations between the Supreme Court-appointed   ( ) and the office-bearers of the   ( ) continue to get worse.

 
 Late last month, it emerged that the CoA had asked for the removal of all the office-bearers — acting president  , secretary   and treasurer Anirudh Chaudhary, as they were disqualified on grounds of exceeding their tenure. On Tuesday, Choudhary wrote a mail (a copy is with TOI) to CoA head Vinod Rai, questioning his committee’s decision to appoint Priya Gupta as the GM, marketing of the Board.
 
 “The instant matter where an appointment contract is sent for my authentication, even though I have once again not been any part of the decisionmaking process on the appointment and the same having been done without even the concurrence of the office-bearers, if not the General Body surprises me, more so when the said appointment is proposed on a post which was not only hitherto nonexistent but is also not one of the positions recommended by the Justice Lodha Committee,” Choudhary wrote. “Like all appointments, this too places a financial liability on the BCCI. Moreover, the person who has been selected by only two people, neither of whom represents the 37 member units of the BCCI, did not even figure in the initial list of candidates.”
 
 Choudhary has also responded strongly to Rai after the latter had pulled him up for not informing the office-bearers about the issue of trying to organise a day/night Test against West Indies in October. “Sir, on the day/night Test match matter, while on the one
 
 hand a premium is put on the views of office bearers, when the concerned email on day/night Test had already been marked to them, in the very next frame an appointment contract is sought to be authenticated for a post which has no sanction either of the General Body, which is sovereign where cricket in India is concerned, or even the Working Committee,” said Choudhary, while clarifying that he had kept everyone in the loop on the issue.
 
 “Going back to the issue of the daynight Test, your major contention that the undersigned was taking ‘policy decisions’ without taking all stakeholders in the loop is clearly not supported by facts and perhaps you were not made aware of the relevant records,” claimed the BCCI acting secretary.
 
 Choudhary has cited the decision of the BCCI Working Committee meeting held on June 26, 2016 of holding the Duleep Trophy with the pink ball for the first time, and then use that experience to have one of the home Tests in the 2016-17 season converted to a day-night Test.
 
 “Besides, it would be useful to know that all other Test-playing nations have already started playing day/night Tests except India and Bangladesh. If anything, India as the tallest and foremost cricket nation should actually have been leading the way,” Choudhary stated.
 
 On Rai’s contention that the Indian players would need to be spoken to on the issue since their body clock would be affected, Choudhary has pointed out the top five players in the Indian team—MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, “have a combined experience of mammoth 1855 matches, an overwhelming majority of which were night matches, the issue of body clocks of players is adequately addressed.”
 
 Choudhary then concludes the mail by saying: “In view of facts as they stand, I would humbly submit that the only proper way forward on the issue of appointment of GM, Marketing would be to allow the General Body to consider it before the final decision taken by you is implemented.”
 
 
