JAIPUR: In a boost to intra-state connectivity, a proposal has been mooted to extend the airstrip of  , situated in   district on chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s home turf, to accommodate bigger aircraft and construct a full-fledged airport.

 The state public works department (PWD) and the civil aviation directorate of the state government are burning midnight oil on the project to extend the runaway length of Jhalawar airstrip from the existing 1,700 metres to 3,000 metres.
 
 The proposed airport, which will follow international standards, would cost the state government nearly Rs 164 crore. Once complete, it will be the first airport in Rajasthan to be maintained and governed by the state government.
 
 
  
 
 Raje is said to have taken personal interest in the ambitious project since it was announced. At a high-level meeting held in June 2016, directives were issued to start the work on a full-fledged airport by extending the length of the runway.
 
 “It will be done in two phases. Initially, the length of the runway will be increased from 1,700 metres to 2,350 meters. In the next phase, this will be extended up to 3,000 metres. The estimated cost of the two phases is nearly Rs 164 crore. We have already appointed a consultant firm, which has submitted a blueprint,” said a senior officer of the PWD department on Thursday.
 
 The extended runway will facilitate landing of medium-sized planes. Reports hinted that the government was rushing the project, hoping to complete it by the initial deadline of August 2018.
 
 But the project has been delayed pending necessary clearance from the forest advisory committee.
 
 Kesari Singh, director, state civil aviation directorate, said, “It’s too early to talk about the completion date. The process of land acquisition is in progress. All I can say is that it is not going to be completed by August 2018.”
 
 Asked if it would be an international airport as suggested by Sangeeta Aviation Services Private Ltd in the detailed project report (DPR), Singh said, “This will be a state-owned airport and a domestic one.”
 
 On the progress of the land acquisition, RS Jhavar, superintending engineer, Jhalwar, said, “We have already acquired 80 hectares of land. For the remaining 120 hectares of forest land, we are in touch with the forest advisory committee (FAC). In December 2017, they had raised some concerns. In the next meeting, we will discuss and give reply to all their concerns.”
 
 The concerned parties were scheduled to meet on Wednesday, but it was not held as the consultant was absent.
 
 As per the proposal, the airport will be able to easily operate aircraft, from ATR-72 to   A-320.
 
 However, it will not be easy for the state government to get all environmental clearances. According to sources, the FAC has asked the state government for a few clarifications at a meeting held on the issue last month.
 
 “They asked why and how we were using forest land for non-forestry purposes like construction of an air strip. Other queries were related to an FIR lodged for the violation of Forest Conservation Act, 1980. We have prepared a detailed reply. After the development of the industrial corridor, the airport will be significant,” said a senior officer of the state government, who was part of the December FAC meeting.
 
 
 
