VADODARA: Two days after an assistant sub-inspector died after suffering a cardiac arrest at new court complex, a litigant collapsed in a courtroom due to heat.

 On Tuesday, the ambulance could not reach until the court building due to barricades which led to delay in treatment to the cop. But to avoid a similar situation on Thursday, several lawyers present there broke the low-height divider to help the ambulance reach until the court building.
 
 Cyrus Patel, a civil contractor who is a respondent in a 2011 criminal case of Negotiable Instruments Act, suddenly felt uneasy when he reached the court on fourth floor of the building around 1pm. His lawyer Chiman Parmar said due to uneasiness, he walked out of the courtroom where he collapsed. Patel was lifted by people present there and taken to ground floor.
 
 An ambulance was also called, but since the barricades were not removed even after Tuesday incident, several lawyers broke a small portion of low-height divider to allow the ambulance reach till the gate 5 of the building. The ambulance driver made his vehicle jump over the divider so that no time was wasted in rushing Patel to the hospital.
 
 After treatment at GMERS Medical and Hospital in Gotri, Patel was discharged by evening. “My client got late in reaching for the hearing of the case and therefore the petitioner’s advocate decided to file an application to issue warrant against him. He was already on his way when I informed him about the petitioner’s application and he became tensed which added to the heat-related problem,” said Parmar.
 
 On Tuesday, an assistant sub-inspector with   police station, who was on the second floor of the building, collapsed outside the courtroom after suffering a cardiac arrest. Treatment was delayed to him as the ambulance could not reach till the main building because of automatic barrier, low-height pillars and police barricades placed in the court complex. After Thursday’s incident, barricades in the complex again became a talking point among the court staff and lawyers.
 
 
