Dr Anuradha   who was the acting   of Indira Gandhi Government Medical   and Hospital (IGGMCH) has recently taken charge as a ‘full-time’ dean of the institute. This has brought a ray of hope among the students who were waiting to be heard. They shared a few issues with us that they want their dean to tackle on a priority basis… 

 We learnt that cleanliness issues and unhygienic conditions are the major concerns of most of the students. Noopur Navankar, who is an intern at IGGMCH shares, “Our hostel building is not at all in a good state. UG and PG girls’ hostels are still better. Though our internship will get over in a month, we hope the next batch gets much better facilities.” 
 
 Some of the students want the vehicle stand near the lecture halls to be more spacious and many of them want to get rid of stray dogs roaming freely inside the campus. Final year MBBS student Shivani Dalal, throws light on some of the other woes as she says, “We want the entrance gate of our hostel to be built from the basketball ground’s side. Currently, it is near the mortuary so whenever a dead body is brought there, the area becomes crowded, making it difficult for us to commute. We have already shared this problem with the authorities. Also, the construction work going on near the hostel area because of which we do not have enough space to walk. I really hope it wraps up soon.”
 Keeping health and hygiene on the top of her agendas, Dr Shrikhande is all set to take up the challenges with renewed zeal. She says, “Cleanliness of the hospital as well as of the college is our top priority. In fact, we have already started our work on this front. Slowly and steadily, we will tackle all the other problems pertaining to the students.” 
 
 Dean also makes it clear that students can freely approach her any time for their problems. “Students have shared quite a few issues but at this moment we intend to concentrate on the areas that need immediate attention. All the hostels are being cleaned at the moment. Students also have an issue with the unhygienic condition of the mess; we will soon fix this problem as well. On Monday, hostel boys requested us to install water tanks and filters, which will be provided within a week. For stray dogs, we have spoken with Nagpur Municipal Corporation; they will send their squads soon to the campus,” says she, adding, “We plan to set deadlines for our team members for solving various issues and completing their targets so that there are no delays.” 
 
 
 WATCH DR SHRIKHANDE SHARE HER AGENDAS 
 
 
