VISAKHAPATNAM: National Thermal Power Corporation ( ) Limited, which generally produces power from coal and sea   at its local plant in the city, is now planning to produce drinking water to meet the needs of railway passengers across the country.

 As part of a joint   between NTPC Ltd and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation ( ), a subsidiary of Indian Railways,   water from the Bay of Bengal along the Vizag coast will be processed and converted into drinking water, with the main target of the project being railway passengers.
 
 A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between the R&D wing of NTPC, also called  , and the IRCTC to process sea water and make it potable. It will be produced at the NTPC’s thermal power plant at Simhadri, on the outskirts of the city, and supplied to IRCTC’s Rail Neer kiosks, which have been set up at all major   across the country. It is a pilot project by the NTPC’s Simhadri unit in  .
 
 Adopting a simple process that applies to the formation of clouds from sea water, the R&D wing of the NTPC will convert sea water and make it potable by using the waste heat technology (flue gas). 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Saroj Chelluri, general manager (technical services),  , said the R&D wing’s tests have been successful. Chelluri said 120 tonnes of potable water or 1.2 lakh litres of drinking water can be generated by using 3,120 tonnes of waste heat or flue gas and 2,160 tonnes of sea water per day. 
 
 No chemicals are used in the process, and the technology is much like how clouds form over sea water through evaporation, Chelluri added. “Now a days, water is most important. To save water, we have come up with the novel idea of making drinking water from waste sources like fuel heat and sea water. We have applied for a patent right too,” Chelluri added.
 
 Chelluri added that the IRCTC will set up its own bottling plant inside the NTPC premises to get the processed water bottled. The NTPC will provide land in its premises for the IRCTC’s bottling plant. “We hope that NTPC’s drinking water will be made available at railway stations in the country by the summer of 2019,” Chelluri added.
 
 An official from the IRCTC said Rail Neer is an in-house project of the IRCTC, which has set up Rail Neer kiosks at all important railway stations in the country. One hopes the NTPC-produced drinking water is made available at an affordable (cheapest) price, so that the poorest of the poor cab afford it.
 
 
