JODHPUR: Actor   fell ill on Tuesday morning after packing up from his late night shoot at the   here.

 Bachchan had been shooting in Jodhpur for the past one week for the film “Thugs of Hindostan”.
 
 At 4:51 am on Tuesday, Bachchan tweeted, “4:51 AM…and just back from work.. ! bina mehnat ke kuchh nahi milta (nothing is achieved without hard work) the city Jodhpur sleeps.. and so shall I in a while after connecting with the well-wishers .. love (sic).”
 
 This tweet was followed by another comment by him on his official blog referring to the beauty of the Mehrangarh Fort and then his health. Bachchan wrote, “I am getting my team of doctors in tomorrow morning to fiddle around with my body and set me up again .. i will rest and keep informed in process ..”
 
 By the afternoon, a team of doctors from Mumbai reached the city in a chartered flight to attend to 75-year-old megastar at his room at Ajeet Bhawan Palace where he has been staying.
 
 At the airport, the doctors declined to divulge details about the actor’s ill health without conducting a check-up. When enquired by the media at the Jodhpur Civil Airport, the doctors said that it would be a general check-up. From the airport, the team headed straight to Ajeet Bhawan Palace.
 
 Sources at Ajeet Bhawan Palace said, the actor was just tired and that he was completely well now. Sources said, it was a routine check-up. Referring to observations by the doctors, sources said that Bachchan had some pain in back and shoulder due to tiredness and he would be able to resume the work soon after some rest.
 
 As the news of his sickness spread, fans gathered outside the hotel and at the airport. Chief minister Vasundhara Raje wished for his good health. Raje, who was on tour to   in  , called up Jodhpur district collector and gave him directions to ensure adequate care of the film star.
 
 Apart from Bachchan, stars like Aamir Khan, Fatima Sana Sheikh and   have been camping in Jodhpur for past one week to complete shooting schedule of “Thugs of Hindostan”.
 
 
