Gurgaon: Amid concerns of a liquidity crunch, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation’s ( )   levels have almost touched Rs 14,000 crore, as of January this year. 

 A reply to an RTI filed by city-based RTI activist Aseem Takyar states the corporation owes Rs 13,941.60 crore in loans to 18 banks across several branches.
 
 The total interest on the outstanding amount paid up between April and December of 2017 is approximately Rs 713 crore. 
 
 The interest on borrowings paid in the financial year 2016-17 was Rs 726.09 crore (till March 2017). In fact, in the last nine years, HSIIDC has paid Rs 11,421.23 crore in interest payments alone. “While HSIIDC’s debt level had come down considerably during 2012-13, it shot up again since then, mostly on account of payment of enhanced compensation to land owners,” said Takyar.
 
 People within HSIIDC agreed that the major reason behind the corporation’s ever-increasing debt levels is the enhanced compensation amounts ordered by different courts, for land acquired for different industrial projects. 
 
 “Almost 100 percent of the total money raised has been borrowed to pay enhanced compensation for land to landlords and farmers, that were ordered by different courts,” said Sudhir Rajpal, Haryana principal secretary (industries).
 
 He added that while on the one hand, the corporation has had to pay enhanced compensation, the allottees in the industrial estates have not paid them for the enhancements, which has led to significant mismatch in the corporations’ balance sheet. 
 
 Rajpal said that the department has issued notices to industrialists demanding them to pay for enhanced land prices to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore at the earliest, in an attempt to reduce the debt levels. 
 
 “Across the state, we’ve also put multiple plots allotted to industrialists on auction and reduced their price bids by 10%, in order to ensure they get sold in a time-bound manner. This way, we hope to bring HSIIDC back in black,” he said.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the cash-starved corporation is in the process of auctioning multiple industrial plots across the state to generate cash. 
 
 More than 1,300 such plots have been put on sale by HSIIDC. Of these, Gurgaon being the most prime location, two plots in the city are also on auction. One of them is a 11.76 acre plot in Udyog Vihar with a reserve price of Rs 676 crore. The other is a 20 acre plot off Dwarka expressway, part of the land parcel for the Global City project. It will also auction a further 1,327 industrial plots across the state.
 
 
