Learning outcomes across government and government-aided schools in Tamil Nadu seems to be going south with the progress of students from primary level to high school, indicated findings of the National Achievement Survey conducted by NCERT in 2017. The survey, whose report was recently published, was conducted to assess competency-based learning outcomes across Classes III, V and VIII. Findings show students’ performance levels which started off with learning outcomes in the range of 60% to 70% at the Class III level, dipped by more than 10% at Class V and further by 20% at the Class VIII level.

 The pattern was common across subjects — environmental science (EVS), language, mathematics, science and social studies — assessed in the survey. The only exception was performance in language subjects where students from all the three classes consistently scored high. The state also lags behind the national average with its learning outcomes ranking lower in most categories except for EVS at primary level and in language at class V and VIII levels.
 
 In a state which has recorded high literacy rates, is a hub of technical institutions, and is a leader in enrolment ratio in higher education with a score of 46.9%, the abysmal learning outcomes at the school level seem to be in sharp contrast.
 
 While the survey hasn’t pointed out any specific patterns or causes for the decline in performance, experts say poor teacher-student ratio, quality of staff, access to infrastructure and teaching and assessment methods play a vital role in a student’s performance. 
 
  believe more initiatives have to be taken at the micro level to encourage better performance. "Chief and district education officers should focus more on academics than administrative tasks. Monthly or weekly tests should be conducted to understand children’s learning levels. State schools also lack in laboratory and library facilities. There is a shortage of quality teachers as many have to take multiple classes, which in turn impacts learning," says K Nandakumar, state general secretary, Tamil Nadu Nursery, Primary, Matriculation, Higher Secondary Schools Association. 
 
 "While the government is implementing many schemes to distribute bags, books, computers and scholarships to students, it should also relook at the academic activities within government school campuses and revamp them. Several teachers also pass students without strictly monitoring the performance. If proper learning has to be implemented, this cannot happen," he adds.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, the top performing districts were Dharmapuri, Perambalur, Erode and Coimbatore which saw high learning outcome percentages at different class levels. 
 
 At the Class III level, Dharmapuri ranked first in EVS, mathematics and language. Trichy on the other hand ranked last in the same subjects among Class III students.
 
 Prince Gajendra Babu, secretary of State Platform for Common School system says there has been a pattern where students from rural regions have performed better than their urban counterparts due to a desire to change their circumstances. As learning outcomes play a key role in assessment, the survey should have delineated factors that triggered such outcomes in its findings, he says. "Questions on teacher-student ratio, quality staff appointments and access of students to required facilities need to be taken into consideration while weighing learning outcomes" 
 
 Experts, meanwhile, say the good show in language could be due to the usage of Tamil as the medium of instruction in many government schools and the ability of students to grasp language faster than other subjects. The enforcement of the Tamil Nadu Tamil Learning Act 2006, which mandates learning of Tamil in all schools, has also given a push for the language across boards. 
 
 
