PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday asked state health minister Mangal Pandey to initiate measures to fill all the vacant posts of doctors in government hospitals within the next eight to ten months.

 “Nearly 57% posts of government doctors in the state are lying vacant. Similarly, 45% posts of Grade-A nurses and 44% posts of auxiliary nurse midwives are also vacant. Doctors are not being appointed even on contract,” Modi said while addressing a function to mark 93rd foundation day of Patna Medical College and Hospital ( ). He suggested the minister to come up with new ideas, such as organising walk-in interviews for doctors. 
 
 Pandey said the number of beds in the emergency section of PMCH would be increased from 100 to 200 within the next two months. Promising to improve the functioning of various departments of PMCH, the minister said, “The list of required equipment submitted by the heads of various departments of the hospital has been forwarded to Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited. We will either purchase new equipment or get annual maintenance contract and comprehensive maintenance contract for the old equipment,” he said.
 
 The minister said the number of total beds in PMCH would be increased from 1,700 to 5,000 as part of the hospital’s redevelopment plan. “A multi-storey parking will also be built. The first phase of the redevelopment project will be completed by 2021. To solve the problem of traffic snarls on Ashok Rajpath, a new elevated road from Gandhi Maidan to PMCH will be built. The proposed three-point entry from Ganga pathway to PMCH will also provide easy accessibility to the hospital,” the minister said, adding the state government will release the revised list of essential drugs within a week. 
 
 Patna Medical College principal Dr Vijay Kumar Gupta said the hospital badly needed better laboratories, lecture theatres, anatomy and dissection halls. He also called for creation of finance department in the hospital. 
 
 Altogether 27 medicos received gold medals for excellent performance in the postgraduate as well as undergraduate courses, while 14 gold medals were awarded to postgraduate students. Over 400 alumni from different parts of the country and 80 from outside India attended the event.
 
 Alapana Pathak of 2013-2017 batch received gold medal for being overall topper while Khushboo Tekriwal of the same batch bagged four gold medals.
 
 
