HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad high court has directed the states of   and AP to furnish the steps they have taken to set up child friendly courts and vulnerable witness courts in each of their districts and also the measures they took to establish other infrastructure in tune with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act.

 
 The bench of acting chief justice   and justice K   gave notices to the chief secretaries, home secretaries, DGPs, Women and Child Welfare authorities along with their prisons department officials to file affidavits in this regard. The bench was hearing a plea which it took up as a public interest plea in tune with the direction of the Supreme Court. The apex court gave a series of directions to the states after hearing a case,   versus   and others.
 
 The   bench made it clear that the states have to set up child friendly courts and vulnerable witness courts in all the districts. All inquiries and trials under Juvenile Justice Act, Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences Act, the Prohibition Of Child Marriages Act and other similar offences are required to be carried out with a high degree of sensitivity, care and empathy for the juvenile victims, the bench said. Also to extend compassion towards juveniles in conflict with law, a separate child friendly infrastructure is the need of the hour, the bench said. This infra can be used to ensure that adult women victims in sexual offences are not subjected further trauma in the regular courts where the environment is not so friendly towards them, the bench added. The women and child welfare wings at both the centre and the states should set up national and state level commissions for protection of child rights. They have to ensure that all the posts in these commissions are filled up with responsible and sensible persons, the bench said. These two bodies can take the assistance of civil society and NGOs to ensure that the provisions of the JJ Act are implemented, the bench said. The police have a greater role in these cases and there is every need to set up special juvenile police units. Eminent persons from the civil society must be appointed as visitors to monitor the functioning of these child care institutions, the bench said. The case was posted to March 20 for further hearing.
 
