Jodhpur Sessions Court yesterday convicted   in the 1998 blackbuck poaching case. The actor was sentenced to five years’ imprisonment along with a penalty of `10,000 under Section 51 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. He was reportedly accused of killing blackbucks in a village near Jodhpur, during the shooting of Hum Saath Saath Hain. 

 
 
 
 The co-accused in the case — Saif Ali Khan, Tabu, Sonali Bendre and Neelam Kothari — who were also present at the hearing yesterday, were acquitted. At the time of going to press, Salman was taken into custody, and was reportedly to be housed in the Jodhpur Central Jail. His bail application will be heard in court today. 
 
 When Chief Judicial Magistrate Dev Kumar Khatri pronounced Salman guilty in court, his sisters Alvira Agnihotri and   Sharma, who had accompanied him to the court along with his bodyguard Shera, broke down. 
 
 Before the actors reached the court, security had been beefed up, with officials deployed inside and outside the court complex. To avoid mishaps and misinformation, the entry of media and other lawyers inside the courtroom was restricted to only those associated with the case. 
 
 
  
 
 Back home in Mumbai, the actor’s fans were waiting for his return, but instead, the news reached them that he had been pronounced guilty. 
 
 
 Salman is currently filming ' ', which is slated for an Eid release this year. His other projects ' ', 'Dabangg 3' and ' ' were also recently announced. Promos of his TV show 'Dus Ka Dum' have also gone on air. All in all, the trade hints that approximately `400 crore is riding on the actor.
 
 Distributor Amod Mehra told BT, “This verdict will not make any difference to his image as a hero. Whatever the setback, I think it will be temporary. He’s Salman Khan, he’ll bounce back.” Distributor Rajesh Thadani adds, “Salman’s projects are already in place for the next two years. Race 3, hopefully, will keep its Eid deadline. What may just suffer are the projects that are yet to begin, but everything will now depend on how soon Salman returns to the bay.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
