BENGALURU: A mix of urban, semi-urban and rural areas, Byatarayanapura is one of the most prominent assembly constituencies in Bengaluru city. It includes not only 60-odd villages in Jala Hobli bordering Kempegowda International Airport, but also some posh areas like Sahakaranagar, Judicial Layout and even the Manyata Tech Park.

 
 Krishna Byre Gowda, minister for agriculture in Siddaramaiah’s cabinet and one of the party’s prominent faces from the dominant Vokkaliga community, is seeking a hattrick in the constituency.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 He is the first MLA from the constituency which came into existence after the 2008 delimitation. Gowda won against BJP candidate A Ravi with a margin of 9,352 votes in 2008 and widened the gap with 32,400 votes against the same opponent in 2013. Gowda and Ravi are back in the battle this time too.
 
 “I have done good work for the last 10 years and our government has given clean governance. My work as an MLA and minister in the constituency will help me win again,” says Gowda.
 
 Ravi, however, terms Krishna Byre Gowda inactive. “People in the constituency are now regretting electing him as their MLA twice. They have realized that he has not done anything for the constituency. He cannot name a single project he has implemented with pride. This time, people will bless me,” he asserts.
 
 The BJP has succeeded in getting into its fold a few local leaders in Kodigehalli area. Ravi is also hoping that the goodwill earned by Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda, who represents Bengaluru North Lok Sabha constituency that includes Byatarayanapura, will rub off on him.
 
 The JD(S) also has a strong base in several pockets of the constituency, including rural areas. Its candidate had polled 41,360 votes last time and the party hopes Chandra TG, its candidate this time, is in with a chance. With all the three major contenders belonging to the same sub-sect of Vokkaligas — the Morasu Vokkaligas — a division in the community’s votes is a possibility. The JD(S) could spoil Byre Gowda’s chances if it can get more Vokkaligas to vote for Chandra.
 
 While four of the seven BBMP wards in the constituency are with Congress, the rest are represented by BJP. While Vokkaligas comprise 30% of the electorate, SCs make for 25%. Kurubas are the third-largest community and Muslims are in the fourth place. The Congress is also hoping to garner a large share of Ahinda votes.
 
 Drinking water and potholed roads are a common problem across the constituency. Traffic issues at Hebbal flyover and Doddabommasandra Road and the incomplete railway underpass at Kodigehalli too rile locals.
 
 
