CHANDIGARH: After the Punjab cooperation department issued notices recently for recovery of long-pending loans running into hundreds of crores of rupees, the declared loan defaulters had deposited Rs 5 crore till Monday. 

 Among those who made deposits were the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)'s member Dyal Singh  's family members, who deposited Rs 95.70 lakh in total . 
 
 Kolianwali's family on Monday deposited three cheques amounting to Rs 95.70 lakh, according to department officials. 
 
 Out of these, one cheque Rs 30 lakh was deposited in Monday's date, second postdated cheque for Rs 33 lakh would be payable on December 31 and the third Rs 32.70 lakh cheque would be payable on June 30, 2019. It's not known if the first cheque ws put for clreance immediately.
 
 The Punjab   has an outstanding loan of Rs 276 crore to those willful defaulters who can repay the amount but are avoiding the payment. 
 
 Kolianwali's family had not deposited even a single loan installment to Punjab Agricultural Development Bank (PADB) in Malout in the past 10 years after taking the loan. 
 
 Punjab co-operation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had suspended the bank manager for laxity in not issuing notices for recovering the loan money.
 
 On Randhawa's instructions, the assistant registrar of Malout branch had sent notice to Kolianwali's family for depositing loan amount by May 23, failing which arrest warrants would have been issued. 
 
 Last week, the family of  's former   MLA Jagdish Raj Sahni had deposited Rs 20.90 lakh to the Gurdaspur central co-operative bank, which is 25% of the total loan amount. Sahni's daughter Ambika Khanna had availed the loan.
 
 After taking over the charge, the new cooperatives minister had instructed all the loan defaulters to repay loans. 
 
 In the first phase, the minister had issued directions to send notices to 20 big defaulters after which the action was started by the department officials in due earnest . 
 
 The minister said commendation certificates would be given to the deputy registrars and the assistant registrars for acting against loan defaulters.
 
 
