MUMBAI:   on Friday struck down a six-year-old decision of the   government to provide water from Pavana dam to the   (MCA) for its stadium in Pune for IPL matches. 

 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Riyaz Chagla called the decision "illegal" and said the state was not entitled to provide water to MCA from Pavana dam for "industrial use". 
 
  
 The bench also recorded an undertaking from   that it would not supply water to Mumbai Cricket Association for maintenance of pitch and ground at Wankhede stadium. The judges said they were "shocked" to note that the state had allowed the MCA to draw water from Pavana for "industrial purposes" despite the fact that the association was not running an industry. 
 
 The court reminded the state that it was a “trustee” of water resources and was tasked to ensure equitable distribution. Allowing MCA to draw water from Pavna admittedly violated the Maharashtra government’s own water distribution policy.
 
 Under the policy, there are five categories of water allocation - ‘A’ for drinking and sanitation, ‘B’ for agriculture, ‘C’ commerce and industry , ‘D’ recreational activities and ‘F’ for other uses like Shahi Snan. The court said use of water for a stadium to water pitches and ground fell in the category of “recreational activities”.
 
 MCA had applied to the state government for renewal of a 2012 agreement on providing over two lakh litres of water. The agreement had said water would be made available to the stadium for drinking and industrial purposes.
 
 The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed in 2016 by NGOs Loksatta Movement and Foundation for Democratic Reforms that alleged that lakhs of litres of water was being misused to maintain cricket pitches when the state was reeling under a severe drought. That year, the court had directed that matches including the final be shifted out of the state.
 
 The NGOs’ lawyer had informed the court that 11 IPL matches were scheduled to be played in the state, and four more matches were shifted to Pune after Chennai pulled out over protests due to the Cauvery water dispute.
 
 
 
