SHILLONG: The credit for the rise of National People’s Party (NPP) from an insignificant contender winning just two seats in 2013 to a major challenger to ruling  , goes to Conrad  . NPP, with 19 seats, emerged as the second-largest party this time, giving a tough fight to the ruling party, which got 21 seats.

 Despite being the single largest party, political analysts say, Congress may not be able to form the government and may have to make way for an NPP-led government. Sangma is clear about the direction his party will take. “We are talking to like-minded people and I will not take names at this stage. Our newly-elected MLAs will have to sit down and deliberate,” he said. NPP has ruled out the possibility of a tie-up with Congress. Sangma told TOI, “Any alliance is highly unlikely...we fought against the Congress in this election.”
 
 But he was ambiguous about BJP. The son of late Purno Agitok Sangma, who introduced the Manipur-based NPP in the electoral politics of  , was not clear about his plans of aligning with the saffron party that had won only a couple of seats. “All options are open as of now,” he said.
 
 Conrad along with his brother James, was first elected to the Meghalaya assembly on an NCP ticket in the 2008 state election. He later held several key portfolios in the state cabinet, including that of finance, power, tourism and IT, and presented his first annual budget for Meghalaya within 10 days of debuting as a minister.
 
 Having been the leader of the opposition from 2009 to 2013, he is currently the MP from Tura—which he won in a by-election in 2016 after his father’s death. Speculations are rife about Conrad’s sister Agatha becoming the first woman chief minister of matrilineal Meghalaya, provided NPP is able to cobble up a coalition.
 
 NPP—though an ally of the NDA at the Centre-—locked horns with BJP in many constituencies with Agatha winning the South Tura seat by defeating a saffron party candidate. Both Sangma siblings— Agatha and sitting legislator James—have emerged victorious, which many believe bear testimony to PA Sangma’s legacy.
 
 Conrad is confident NPP will form the next government as people are tired of Congress rule and desperate for change. Congress has been in power in Meghalaya since 2003.
 
