The Union budget has set a target to enhance the capacity of 124 airports under the AAI to one billion trips per year and, to begin with, has allocated ₹60crore for the initiative. However, there is no specific announcement on development deadline for Chennai airport, one of the two major airports with AAI. The capacity of the airport is 20 million passengers per year and the airport will miss the bus even though the proposed Phase-II expansion is done and the second airport built to reach an annual passenger capacity on a par with international hubs like Dubai or Singapore. AAI has started paperwork to start the Phase-II expansion — building an integrated terminal, straightening of a taxiway, a satellite terminal, building rapid exit taxiways — to increase the capacity of the airport to 30million passenges per year. But it is already delayed. Building a second airport too may not help because the Union ministry of civil aviation is only looking at, due to constraints on availability of land, a small singlerunway facility where only international operations will be handled. This, too, may not come up in the next five to seven years going by the current pace of work. 

 Nevertheless, passenger and aircraft numbers are increasing at the airport. There has been an 11% increase in passenger numbers and 2.4% rise in aircraft movement from April to December 2017 period compared to the corresponding period last year. A senior AAI official said the airport had lost a lot of time due to lack of clarity over the direction needed to be taken to develop the airport. “There was a plan to privatise it. Then the new government wanted AAI to develop it. More than 10 years have been lost in this uncertainty. Things are moving to speed up the phase-II development only in the last one year,” he added. Amitabh Khosla, country director, India, International Air Transport Association (IATA) said, “We welcome the focus on airport infrastructure capacity announced in the budget. In our 20-year passenger forecasts, IATA anticipates India will become the 3rd largest aviation market by 2024. But this is by no means guaranteed. To make this a reality, airport capacity in India needs to be augmented and expanded quickly. IATA has earlier recommended and is supportive of levaraging AAI’s balance sheet for infrastructure creation and expansion.” Airlines and those in the travel trade sector are worried about the many capacity constraints and congestion at major airports. IATA said in a statement that “the big question mark on capacity, and a critical area of concern for IATA , continues to be about Mumbai airport. Navi Mumbai airport is still a distant dream. In the meantime, Mumbai continues to fall behind in aviation activity.” Sharat Dhall, COO of   said that the airport capacity enhancement would help boost tourist flows and strengthen connectivity to a large extent. “The proposal of generating 1 billion trips a year is a welcome move for the travel & tourism sector,” he said.