Nagpur: Compositions of legendary music directors OP Nayyar, and Kalyanji-Anandji reverberated the air at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall with singers coming up with best of their melodies at a programme organized by Swaratarang Music Academy on Wednesday.

 Musical treat ‘Hits of OP Nayyar and Kalyanji-Anandji’ began on a high note with Parvathi Nair impressing the audience with her versatility in rendition of popular song ‘Aao huzoor tumko’ which evoked an encore. Anup Huddar received a loud cheer from the crowd when he presented ‘Chand si mehbooba’. Akshay Kapse’s performance on Kalyanji-Anandji’s national award winning song ‘Chandan sa badan’ from movie Saraswatichandra was captivating.
 
 Adding to the fun quotient of the show, Niranjan Bobde presented ‘Ye chand sa roshan chehra’ and a duet with Ila Dua and Nair on ‘Ude jab jab julphe teri’ and ‘Salame ishq meri jaan’ respectively. Nandu Andhare presented an expressive version of ‘Lakho hai nigah mein’. 
 
 Duet performances like ‘Mere ghar aye sanjanva’, ‘Diwana hua badal’, ‘Mang ke sath tumhara’ and many more were the highlights of the show. Asha Bhosle’s super hit melody ‘Jaiye aap kahan jayenge’ in the sweet voice of Nair was one of the best of the programme. The only medley of the programme by Bobde comprising songs like ‘Pukarta’, ‘Akele hai’ and ‘Pardesiyo se na’ in addition to Isbabul Hasan’s ‘Govinda aala re’ and Anil Gulhane’s ‘Khaike pan Banaraswala’ were entertaining.
 
 In between the performances, anchor Shweta Shelgaonkar told various anecdotes while her shayari proved to be a cherry on the cake. Song visuals in the backdrop made the experience all the more interesting.
 
 The singers were accompanied by Mahendra Dhoble on keyboard, Gaurav Tanksale on guitar, Prashant Nagmote on tabla, Dipak Kamble on dholak and Subhash Wankhede on octopad. 
 
 Bobde, who had conceptualized the programme, told TOI, “We always wish to provide a musical treat to the masses. Songs by these evergreen artistes help us create a nostalgic environment and takes everyone back to those times, adding to the flavour of the show.”
 
 
