MUMBAI: Families bereaved by the   of September 29 have been sanctioned a   of Rs 8 lakh each by the railway claims   but the path has not been without hurdles. Each household had to get reams of   translated by professional advocates and notarised at their own expense.

 Ghatkopar resident Nilesh Dedhia, father of 24-year-old Hiloni who died in the tragedy, pointed to this cumbersome formality. “All documents, including the panchnama we received from police, were in Marathi. But the tribunal wanted them in  . Ordinary translations were not acceptable, they had to be in a certain format. We had to hire an advocate and carefully redraft documents in a way that would be acceptable to the court. Police and the railway tribunal are part of the same government, so why should the tribunal not accept original   documents? Or the authorities could have prepared two sets right in the beginning, one in each language. Because of this, the process was delayed by a month and a half. It involved considerable expense also.”
 
 Balu Pasalkar, a telephone operator with BMC who lost his 23-year-old daughter Priyanka, said, “A software engineer, she earned Rs35,000 a month. So, Rs 8 lakh is merely the equivalent of two years’ salary. We leave it to the wisdom of the authorities to determine if this is fair. If she were alive and had continued working till 58, she would have earned at least Rs 1.4 crore. I will retire in two years and I have two young sons who are studying. I had barely heaved a sigh of relief that Priyanka had also started working when my world crumbled.” Pasalkar also engaged an advocate to process the paperwork.
 
 Purshottam Alva, whose wife Sujata was killed in the crush, said, “We did not complain as these are set rules for claiming compensation. We spent Rs6,500-7,000 to hire an advocate to translate papers and get them notarised.” Purshottam takes care of his children, does the housework and works full-time.
 
 In Worli, the family of 20-year-old Mayuresh Haldankar has withdrawn into a shell since its breadwinner died. Yuva Sena’s Abhijit Patil, who had helped them, said, “The CM had visited the site and announced that he would do everything to ease the families’ suffering. The process of claiming compensation should have been simpler. I will take up the matter with South Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant to assist the Haldankars through this.”
 
 
