In the last few days, the   has received a number of complaints from foreign tourists about vendors duping them and charging exorbitant rates. Most of these   seem to have the same modus operandi – an accomplice follows a group of tourists and either tries to sell them fake ‘precious’ gems or takes them to a shop that gives him a cut, where the tourists are sold items at high rates or offered great ‘deals’ that don’t turn out to be so great.
According to the police, tourists often complain to them through emails after leaving the country, when nothing can be done. To keep a check on such incidents, the   has launched the Tout-Free CP campaign, under which the police officials go undercover to catch touts.
 
  
  
 
 
 An ASI (Assistant Sub-Inspector), who stopped a seller from trying to sell an art piece to a foreign tourist, said, “Our purpose is to make Dilli darshan a pleasurable experience for foreign tourists, and that includes shopping too. Safety should not be foreign to foreign tourists. After launching this drive, we also realised that apart from being fooled by the vendors selling fakes, the tourists would feel harrassed when someone would stalk them from one end of the market to the other, forcing them to buy something. They prefer ignoring, rather than complaining. And if they are duped, they realise it when it’s late. So we have to stop it on the spot.”
 When a cop in plain clothes asked vendors to stop harassing the foreign tourists, obviously, they got prompt replies. A vendor, asking them to mind their own business, said, “Apna kaam karo, beech mein kyun bol rahe ho?’, while another one asked, “Aapse khareedne ko bol raha hoon?” There was also a 12-year-old boy trying to sell some items, who commented, “Pata nahin kahan se chale aate hain!” But the cops chose to ignore.
 
  
  
 
 
 A member from Delhi Police’s special team appointed for the campaign told us, “The whole purpose will fail if we tell them that we are from the police force. That’s why no uniform. These vendors try to get whatever amount they can from foreigners. If they can’t, then sometimes, they even turn aggressive. When we are not in uniform, we follow the  , observe their interactions and then ward the vendors off.”
 When we spoke to some foreign tourists, they told us that it is not just in CP and Janpath that touts try to fleece them, but outside hotels too. S Eli, a tourist from the UK, said, “Bargaining is fine and if something is overpriced, we won’t buy it. But yes, when someone tries to sell a replica as an original, it’s funny. Do we look like fools? A number of people have contacted me in these markets with better hotel and tour deals, but these are the things that no tourist should fall for! However, saying no again and again is also irritating.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The cops told us, “We have received a number of complaints stating that while shopping in CP, Janpath or  , the tourists were being chased by a shopkeeper.” We asked, how would you differentiate between touts and vendors? You can’t, said a cop, adding, “We spend our whole day and evening here, observing the patterns of vendors, spotting people who try to speak to foreigners and sell them cheap plans. And then, we finally get to catch the miscreants. The recent cases that we have cracked, we did in a similar manner.”
 In the day-long drive, the special team managed to stop a number of vendors from selling items at overpriced rates and in return got a ‘Thank You’ from foreign tourists. A sub-inspector, who is a part of the team, said, “We also chat with foreign tourists without revealing our identity. It helps us understand if they are facing any issues. Sometimes, we get a clue from them and when we get to know about something that needs immediate attention, and we call the constables from the police booth.”
 
 
  
  The New Delhi district police officials tell us that the best way to differentiate between touts and authentic sellers is by observing their patterns and trying to find out if they’re selling any cheap plans to foreign tourists
 
  
  
  
 
