GURUGRAM: The   faced yet another embarrassment on Wednesday after the Punjab and Haryana high court granted six-week interim bail to four youths initially arrested for their alleged role in the Dingerheri gang rapes and murders. All four youths are from Mewat’s Mohammadpur Ahir village.

 Justice Surinder Gupta passed the order while hearing a petition filed by four suspects — Sandeep, Amarjeet, Karamjeet and Rahul Verma — after the CBI submitted a chargesheet against four members of “Axle gang” in the case. 
 
 This is the second case in which Haryana Police is facing flak for a botched-up investigation in the recent past. Police had arrested a Gurugram private school’s bus driver for allegedly murdering a Class II student last September, but he was acquitted by a city court after the CBI found no incriminating evidence against him.
 
 Counsel for petitioners in the Dingerheri gang rape and murder case, Pardeep Rapria, said the court had also asked the CBI to produce evidence collected by it in the case. Rapria also said the CBI, during hearing of the case, had informed the court that it could not find any evidence against the four youths, but the investigation is still on.
 
 The youths were arrested after a 40-year-old farmer and his wife were beaten to death and their two nieces were raped by a gang of four armed men, who barged into their home in Dingerheri village of Nuh district in Mewat off the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway on the intervening night of August 24 and 25 in 2016. A special investigation team (SIT) led by former IG (Rewari) arrested the four accused within four days of the crime, triggering resentment among villagers who alleged that the cops had nabbed the youths and made them the accused in a haste. Following this, the case was transferred to CBI for probe. Finally, on December 5, 2016, the CBI took over the investigation.
 
 The case almost fell flat after four others — Hemant Chauhan, Ayan Chauhan, Vinay alias   and Jai Bhagwan of ‘Axle gang’— arrested by the Gurugram police on September 13, 2017, confessed to their involvement in Dingerheri gang rape and murders. Later, a chargesheet was also submitted against them in the special CBI court in Panchkula. These four youths were arrested initially for their alleged role in the gang rape of two women in Madpura, Pataudi. Later, during the investigation, they also confessed that they gang raped two women and murdered a couple in Mewat’s Dingerheri. The Gurugram police later sent their confessional report to the CBI. According to the report, the gang members confessed, “While Dharmu, Munna and Jai Bhagwan thrashed the man and his wife with sticks, Lambu took their two nieces inside the room at gunpoint. Another man who was sleeping inside the room was also thrashed. After locking up the family members in another room, the four men gang-raped the two women.”
 
 “We have been pleading to the authorities that our children are innocent, but they framed the youths and destroyed their future. We were told that there was strong evidence against them. We are happy that they are out of jail now,” Karamjeet Yadav, a relative of one of the four youths, said, adding that the court asked the CBI to complete the investigation soon, otherwise our children would be granted permanent bail. Union minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjeet Singh said he would write to Union home minister Rajnath Singh, seeking strict action against erring cops and a probe into how these four youths were implicated in the case. 
 
 With inputs from Chandigarh
 
 
