JAIPUR: A retired government medical doctor was arrested by the city’s Jawahar Circle police for his alleged involvement in cheating multiple   by offering to sell flats at posh localities of the city.

 The police arrested Dr. Heera Lal Bairwa, a former medical jurist who had served in Jaipur and Bikaner. He was detained from Dausa late Tuesday night and brought to Jaipur for interrogation, following which he was arrested.
 
 “Dr. Bairwa collaborated with one builder Shailendra Mathur to construct five flats at his property located at Ramjipura area of the city. They also offered to sell these under constructed flats and brought money from prospective buyers on pretext of agreement,” said SHO Rajesh Kumar Soni.
 
 Mathur, however, was found dead in May 2015. The police considered it a case of murder and abduction.
 
 However, after duping buyers on pretext of agreement, he fled from the city and spent most of the time in Rishikesh and New Delhi. “There have been multiple cases filed against the accused, in 2016 and FIR was registered with Jawahar Circle police station where the complainant alleged that Dr. Bairwa showed him a flat in Ramjipura at a cost of Rs 30.21 lakh. An agreement was also signed for which the complainant paid Rs 16.5 lakh,” an official told TOI.
 
 Many complainants arrived at the police station and said that the accused duped Rs 11 to16 lakh from them on pretext of “agreement money,” and fled from the city, they buyers never got the possession of their flats as registries were never signed.
 
 The investigators told TOI that many agreements were signed by his wife. “There are at least four cases of cheating filed against Dr. Bairwa, of these four cases, challan has been filed in three cases,” the official told TOI.
 
 Rajesh Kumar Soni said that Dr. Bairwa has been arrested under section 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy). “He has duped several persons in this case, he has been quizzed about his other accomplices. We are also trying to find is how did he mange to remain on the run for long,” the official told TOI. 
 
 
