NAVI MUMBAI: Five days after its inauguration with much fanfare by chief minister  , the 500m-long and three-lane Mahape   built at the cost of Rs 19.63 crore along   has developed cracks and seepage. The damage has been reportedly caused by ground water pressure during high tide and uneven levelling, leading to closure of the third lane for repair.

 This underpass and two flyovers at   and   were thrown open for motorists on Monday after several delays.
 
 Remaining two lanes are operational though motorists are now suspecting imminent flooding during the monsoon months.
 
 Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the agency who developed the road underpass running parallel to Thane-Belapur Road, claims that two spots have been located as the source of ground water leakage for which the necessary treatment is on to seal the patches while removing the layer of existing cement concrete.
 
 The last lane will remain shut for the next fortnight to complete repair and reconcretisation work, said MMRDA sources. 
 
 The affected lane has been barricaded while the remaining two lanes are open for traffic. As the seepage and cracks came to light on Saturday, the stretch did not not witness any bottleneck.
 
 But motorists have been scathing in their feedback and are questioning the alleged faulty design and quality of materials used for building underpass. 
 
 “This is wastage of public money. Five days after its opening the underpass has developed leakage which may create more trouble during rainy days,” said a motorist Shankar More.
 
 The underpass has been built to give smoother passage to Belapur-bound vehicles at the crowded   junction where the roads opens out to Kalyan, Dombivli, Ambernath and Panvel.
 
  “A disaster is waiting to happen in the monsoon ” said a biker Ramesh Shetty.
 
  Milind Jaitpal, MMRDA executive engineer who looked after the construction of the underpass and flyovers said, “This is nothing serious. A minor testing is being done to detect the problem areas due to increase in ground water level. This happens when the underpass is way below the sea level. We have traced the two leakage spots and are fixing the problem by raising its height.”
 
 
