MADURAI: Parents of the four girl students of   in   who were allegedly solicited by assistant professor   have demanded that their children’s privacy be protected, even as Nirmala’s lawyer claimed his client was facing a threat to her life in prison.

 Police who are investigating the case against Nirmala had asked the students to come to the office of the superintendent of police on Tuesday, but the parents insisted that their children’s privacy needed to be safeguarded and that the inquiry should have to be in a place of their choice.
 
 Advocate M Thangapandian who is contact with the parents of one of the girls said the families were very particular that the girls were not affected. “These girls should be seen as champions who have helped to bring this racket to light, as anyone who listens to the audio clip can hear one of the girls telling Nirmala that they were not interested in what she was saying. Hence, their names should have been kept a secret, but the secretary of the college has revealed the names in his complaint to police in a deliberate move to intimidate them,” he said.
 
 Also, as it was the college administration and not the girls or their families who preferred the complaint against Nirmala Devi, they can be included only as witnesses in the case, and there is no immediate need for police to interrogate them, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, counsel for Nirmala, Balasubramanian, who spoke to reporters outside the   Central Prison on Wednesday after meeting her, said there was a threat to Nirmala’s life, as she has been lodged in the common women’s cell. He said she should be given a special cell.
 
 Social media page ‘Aruppukottai Arangal’, which shared the audio clip on groups, had muted the names of the girls Nirmala was heard addressing, but various sections are shocked that the college secretary had mentioned their names in the complaint to police.
 
 Advocate M Thangapandian, who released the audio on social media, said it was not the four girls, but some other students of the college, who had approached him with the audio clip. “I could not go with their claim alone and said that I would need evidence to know that the professor had contacted the girls on their mobile phones, and that was when I was able to see for myself that the claims were true and I released it, because I wanted this crime to end and the girls of the institution safeguarded,’’ he said.
 
 The four girls’ parents themselves did not want to file a complaint, fearing that it would cause them problems, but the parent of one of the girls confronted the college management on March 13, and this led to the suspension of Nirmala on March 21.
 
 Sundar*, a final year M.Sc student, says the audio clip had been doing the rounds in the college before it came out and the management had instructed the girls not to make allegations against any faculty member other than Nirmala Devi. “We believe that it was one of the teachers here who was responsible for the matter going out, as the management has been having problems in the past one year and three principals have changed during the period,” he said.
 
 Ravikumar*, said a thorough investigation, including tracking of bank accounts, may throw more light on the issue as these four girls were definitely not the first and last to be targeted by Nirmala Devi, who has been working in this college for over six years.
 
 
