UDAIPUR:   is coming as a big blessing for many towns and villages in rural areas and Saatpuliya village in Divair gram panchayat of   is one of them. With a tough terrain nestled in valleys and rivers, electricity had been a dream for the locals here, however, thanks to the solar power that has now lighted up all 65 homes in this settlement. Saatpuliya is the remotest village of   closely attached with Pali district.

 "Life had been tough for the residents here before solar power reached here. With a dense forest cover, specially during the monsoon season, even days were dark making the lives of the people very difficult" says HeeraSIngh, the ward panch. Life without electricity was most keenly felt after dusk when kerosene lamps were lit. These lamps in rural areas are associated with the risk of domestic fire and respiratory problems but the residents had no other option.Life came to standstill with the setting sun- food had to be cooked before dark and children had to finish their studies by then. The only alternative had been the dim kerosene or castor oil lamps. There were no fans to cool homes in the scorching summers,no televisions to impart happenings of the outer world. " When I came to live in this village after marriage, it had been really difficult to adjust as I was born and brought up in an electrified village. My parents had gifted home appliances like mixer-grinder, fan etc but the boxes were left untouched for years because we had no power supply in the village" claims Prem Bai, another housewife. 
 
 Things changed with the introduction of solar energy and all the homes were installed with the solar panels to generate their own power. Last year in November, Saatpuliya was declared as complete solar electrified village." The men had to take their mobile phones to neighbouring villages to get it charged. Kids couldnt study properly in the dim diya or kerosene lantern lights. But now with the solar equipments installed in our homes, we dont have to worry for light" Leela Gehlot,a homemaker said. Solar energy has emerged as the cheapest source of power as the villagers do not have to worry for paying hefty electricity bills. 
 
 
