Pune:   on Wednesday launched its Ultra range of commercial vehicles in a bid to further improve its market share, while outpacing the competition in the 1,05,000 per year (as on FY18) intermediate and light commercial vehicle (ILCV) section.

 Terming the launch “beginning of a change” at the company, Guenter Butschek, CEO and managing director of Tata Motors, said, “We see a significant rise in the market share because of the product we have launched today.”
 
 Tata Motors on Wednesday launched a series of 14 trucks, what it believes could be used for over 50 different applications in the logistics chain. The company has a 44.2% market share in the ILCV segment — it sold a total of 46,500 vehicles in the last fiscal.
 
 Butschek said the ILCV plays a crucial role in the overall game of the company's turnaround strategy. “The company is very enthused by the response the experimental marketing of the Ultra range of trucks has generated over the past nine months or so,” he added.
 
 The company put out some 3,000 trucks in the market over the last fiscal, which it says has led to crucial insights on the product from the end users. “Success creates hunger for further success and we are hungry,” Butschek said. 
 
 The company also plans to invest more in “de-bottlenecking” capacity constraints it had faced in the past. “Turnaround is the new normal and the new way of life at Tata Motors as of now. It is a key requirement in the highly volatile Indian market where not just facts but sometimes also rumours affect customer sentiments,” Butschek said.
 
 The CEO also said since the turnaround strategy has shown some good results in the commercial vehicle segment, the company will also focus more on adding passenger vehicles to the "turnaround scope" in FY2019.
 
 BS-VI development
 
 Asked if the company will bring any of the BS-VI commercial vehicles earlier than April 1, 2020 deadline, Butschek said, “The point is that availability of BS-VI compliant fuel is going to be limited (going) by all the information we have to more or less a couple of metros. CVs run across the country. You cannot commit to a BS-VI solution because it will also require BS-VI compliant fuel.”
 
 He added that cost will be an important determinant for introduction of BS-VI vehicles. Girish Wagh, president, commercial vehicle business unit, Tata Motors, however, said that the engineers at the company are working full steam on the BS-VI migration.
 
 
