BENTONVILLE: Three weeks ago,   announced a $16-billion acquisition of 77% stake in  . After a whistle-stop trip to India, Walmart International president
 , Flipkart’s 
 and Walmart India CEO 
 spoke to a select group of Indian journalists on the sidelines of the global retail giant’s annual shareholders’ meet at the company’s headquarters here. 
 :

 
 
 
 
 : We are committed to Flipkart being successful in India. This is not a short-term investment. We have already shown commitment and we believe that’s the right thing to do.
 
 
 
 
 : We see it as a way of increasing the funding available to the business if that’s what we choose to do.
 
 
 
 
 : We are happy as it is today. We are happy to make sure that the business is successful. If we want to bring investors and if it makes sense for them and makes sense for us, we would have no objections to that.
 
 
 : We already have some of the financial investors on board, Accel is still on board, Tiger is still on board. Bringing in another one does not really change the shape of the shareholding. An IPO down the road is a reality.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 : We don’t own Flipkart yet, so there is a limited amount that we can do to work together at this moment in terms of sharing information or planning. There are a couple of areas. Global sourcing would be a clear example of the synergy that we can bring and we can draw synergies from Flipkart for Walmart business as well.
 
 
 : In global sourcing, Walmart has a major international supply chain and that option could be considered at the right moment. Apparels, for example, we source from India and Bangladesh. There’s quite a bit of Indian products — roughly two-thirds pharmaceuticals and one-third of general merchandise. We have the possibility of bringing Indian products to Walmart.
 
 
 : We are looking at Indian sellers selling on different Walmart properties across the globe. Not just bringing stuff to India but taking Indian stuff globally.
 
 
 
 
 : We work with kirana shops. We have one million members, whom we have helped during GST transition. They are extremely loyal to us. What I see on the ground is very different from what I read in newspapers. We are stepping up kirana development programme through internet, apps to improve their productivity and reduce their inventories. 
 
 For 11 years, you ran Flipkart as a boss. How does it feel to have a boss now?
 
 
 : Thankfully, nothing is changing on that end. For 11 years, Flipkart has been a board-led company and with Walmart coming in as an investor we are not changing the operating structure of the company. Members of the board will change a little bit and we will continue to report to the board.
 
 
 
 
