JAIPUR: In an unprecedented move, the governor has suspended the on-going selection process of vice-chancellor of Jaipur-based Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University. The suspension came after a   and academicians raised objections that UGC norms were not followed in the recruitment process. Sources told TOI that higher education department is amending the   Act 1998 by inserting the UGC norms of 10 years’ experience as a professor for the post of V-C.

 The Sanskrit university had invited applications for the top post on April 21 without mentioning the mandatory experience in the advertisement. Instead of 10 years experience as a professor, the advertisement reads 'distinguished academician' as the eligibility criteria for the top post.
 
 The matter was raised by BJP MLA from Chabbra, Pratap Singh Singhvi who shot a letter to the Sanskrit education minister Kiran Maheshwari on May 9. “I informed the department that a vague term like distinguished academician is likely to be misused and going against the UGC norms means that university will not receive any funds from funding agencies including UGC,” said Singhvi.
 
 Interestingly, government amended the rules of 12 state varsities by including 10 years' experience as professor in a university for the top post in 2017. The amendment came after the then   vice-chancellor   had to step down due to his qualification which caused embarrassment to the state.
 
 Sources at the higher education department sought opinion from the governor on the same day (May 9). “The order suspending the process was released on May 11 after taking opinions from experts,” said a source at governor house. The higher education department is likely to start the process of amending the bill soon.
 
 The post of V-C has been lying vacant since February 2018. The additional charge is being held by RK Kothari, V-C of Rajasthan University. Teachers worry that recruitment process has been delayed for months which will affect the functioning of the university that is struggling for students. “Both the mains posts—V-C and registrar have been lying vacant from last few months. This has crippled the functioning of the university. The situation has turned so poor that against the 1,000 seats, it has 300 students in all 20 courses at UG and PG levels,” said a teacher of the university.
 
 
