Chandigarh: The stalking   booked on Friday after nine days of the court order and within an hour of TOI’s approaching the senior superintendent of police (SSP) was arrested on Saturday. Ravi Singh Gehlot of Nayagaon had shadowed his target even on the internet and caused her wedding to be called off.

 Police have booked him under Indian Penal Code’s Section 354-D, which deals with stalking. On February 17, Ravi’s target had moved the district court, submitting that he had harassed her and her family so much that she was on the brink of falling into depression. She said even though the cyber stalker had created eight fake Facebook profiles to defame her, cops from the Sector 34 police station had told her they were not sure if it merited an FIR (first-information report).
 
 The woman says the pesky caller would use a new mobile-phone number every time. On December 19, 2017, she complained to the SSP through the public window system, because her marriage was coming up on February 4, 2018. Ravi allegedly uploaded the woman’s doctored images on Facebook and e-mailed those to her fiancée. The alleged stalker managed even to speak to her prospective in-laws and poison their ears so much that they called off the wedding.
 
 The complainant says it emboldened the stalker so much that he started blocking her path and threatening her openly that if she spurned his offer for marriage, he will commit suicide and implicate her family. She went to police again. On March 21, a district court directed the SSP and the Sector-34 station house officer (SHO) to register an FIR against Ravi and speed up the investigation. Nine days passed but the police did not file a case, until TOI stepped in and approached the SSP.
 
 The stalking goes back several years. The complainant claims to have known the accused for 10-odd years since they attended English coaching classes. Gehlot befriended her, but she severed ties with him after seeing him chasing other women.
 
 Even in the high-profile stalking case against Vikas Barala, son of Haryana BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) president Subhash Barala, police had put milder sections of law into the FIR.
 
 Box:
 
 Charges against him
 
 Created eight fake Facebook profiles to defame the woman
 
 Annoyed and threatened woman over mobile phone
 
 Uploaded the woman’s doctored images on Facebook and e-mailed those to her fiancée
 
 Influenced woman's prospective in-laws to call off the wedding
 
 Blocked woman’s path in public
 
 Threatened to commit suicide and implicate her family if she spurned his offer for marriage
 
 
