JAIPUR: A cultural confluence of contemporary and classical performance, home-grown bands and international names, movies and marathons is giving the celebrations of Rajasthan Day this year a new spring in its step.

 Dipping into the diversity of interests and faiths, adding new locales like Masala Chowk, Raja Park and Moti Dungri for celebrations, the organizer, the tourism department, has walked the extra mile to make everybody in the city and the state part of the Rajasthan Day, which is observed on March 30.
 
 “Rajasthan Day belongs to all Rajasthanis. The activities have been sewed up keeping in mind their diverse interests, faiths, passions, etc. Besides well-known names in the music world such as   and Shankar, Ehsaan & Loy, we have paid special attention to the local talent by giving prominent space to bands like Swarag and Rubaru. We have reached out to all communities and age-groups to make the festivities inclusive,” said  , additional chief secretary, tourism and culture, forest and environment.
 
 Befitting the state’s cultural richness, the tourism department has started the festivities 11 days earlier this year, expanding the scope and content of the celebrations.
 
 Besides Kathak dances, music concerts, light and sound shows and film festivals, traditional and cultural performances like bhajans, aarti, qawwalis and gurbani have been arranged at different temples, dargahs and gurudwaras in the city.
 
 The main three-day Rajasthan festival will begin on March 28 with the traditional lighting of the Rajasthan Day Torch. At Janpath, there will be a display of tableaux with folk artists representing various regions. Also a short film festival on culture and tourism will be inaugurated by Bollywood actress Madhu and  .
 
 On March 29, the city will witness a cycle marathon from Albert Hall to   in the evening. The Army will showcase their band, and trick riding skills. Shankar, Ehsaan & Loy will perform at the mega concert at Albert Hall from 7 pm onwards.
 
 The grand closing ceremony on March 30 has something special in store. Besides the captivating cultural extravaganza, an immersive theatrical performance along with a state-of-the-art projection mapping show on the striking façade of the Vidhan Sabha has been arranged to pay tribute to the glorious past of Rajasthan.
 
 
