KOLKATA:  , the Elon Musk company that lifted a $100,000   Roadster into space on Wednesday, has also conducted crucial   expe-riments that will determine future forays into deep space. What’s more, those experiments have a strong Kolkata connect.

 Sharmila Bhattacharya, who did her schooling from   and La Martiniere for Girls and then Part-I from Presidency College, has been leading the Nasa team that studied the impact of space on fruit flies. “Approximately, 77% of human disease genes are similar to those in the fruit fly genome. So studying the impact of space on fruit flies helps us understand the underlying mechanisms of human diseases,” Bhattacharya, who is in Kolkata now, said, explaining the connection between man’s forays into deep space and fruit flies.
 
 
  
  
 
 Bhattacharya came down to India for an Isro conference in Hyderabad on radiation res-earch and then managed to squeeze in a few days to visit her place of birth and relatives. “We have sent fruit fly missions to the International Space Station (ISS) on board SpaceX rockets to check the impact of space on our immune and cardiovascular system,” Bhattacharya, laboratory director and senior scientist at the Space Biosciences Research Branch of Nasa Ames Research Centre in California, told TOI on the sidelines of an interaction with schoolchildren at the  .
 
 “The fruit fly’s immune system is very similar to humans. Our experiment showed that immunity in flies decreased following time in space. Long-term health monitoring of astronauts has also indicated a slightly elevated risk of cancer,” she added.
 
 A manned mission to Mars will mean spending three years in deep space. Beyond the Van Allen Belt, a protective shell located located 58,000 km from the earth’s surface, it gets dangerous because of galactic cosmic radiation and solar particle events that can damage and mutate cells. This is where the Kolkata girl’s expertise will come in again. And this will involve, instead of fruit flies, yeast.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 NASA will embark on the BioSentinel mission planned for launch in 2019-20. “The primary objective of this mission is to develop a biosensor using brewer’s yeast to detect, measure and correlate the impact of space radiation on living organisms over long durations beyond the low earth orbit,” she explained.
 
 Blood samples from astronauts, who have been at the ISS for six months, show 1.5-1.8 times greater abnormality in chromosomes. “The ISS is situated 350 km from the earth’s surface. That is well within the protective shield. If one were to go beyond on a mission to Mars and spend three years outside the Van Allen Belt, it could cause four times the damage that astronauts at ISS have experienced. But there are critical knowledge gaps that needs to be filled. That’s what these experiments aim to do,” she added.
 
 As a young girl, Bhattacharya adored her father Sukhdeb, a former pilot with  . Once she had told him, “Baba, can’t I fly?” “You certainly can, my girl. You can fly as high as you please,” he had said and told her about the exploits of his colleage, Dhruba Banerjee, the airline’s first female pilot. Though Bhattacharya never did acquire a pilot’s licence, the Kolkata girl is happy to have piloted scientific experiments to realms beyond what her father would ever have imagined.
 
 
