Madurai/Chennai: The death toll from Sunday’s sudden and savage forest fire, which trapped an unsuspecting group of 36 trekkers in Kolukkumalai near Bodinayakanur in Tamil Nadu’s   district, climbed to 10 on Monday.

 The dead included six women; 16 were hospitalized in critical condition in Madurai and neighbouring areas and 10 others returned home after being administered first aid. More than 250 personnel from from the state police and revenue departments and the Indian Air Force, which pressed helicopters into the mission from Sunday evening, rescued 23 people from the site. Several of the injured received first aid at Kurangai primary health centre before officials shifted them to secondary and tertiary care centres.
 
 Only three of the 39 expedition members — most of whom were young professionals — were not at the scene and escaped unscathed. As the scope of the tragedy widened on Monday, evidence emerged that the forest department had not reacted with adequate speed to alerts it had received from the Forest Survey of India about a “thermal anomaly” near the spot where the blaze surrounded the trekkers. 
 
 Early on Monday morning, an IAF team led by flight lieutenant Manohar from Sulur in Coimbatore, airlifted bodies from the scorched hillsides and sprayed firefighting chemicals from helicopters to douse the blaze. The IAF also deployed an unmanned aerial vehicle at the end of rescue operation to check for survivors who may have been trapped in the forest. Rescuers used bedsheets tied to wooden logs to move the injured for first aid and treatment.
 
 Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and ministers Dindigul C Srinivasan and C Vijayabaskar oversaw the rescue measures. As many as thirteen 108 ambulance vehicles were mobilized to carry the injured to hospitals. According to officials, two separate trekking groups had undertaken the ill-fate trip — one from Chennai, consisting of 27 members, the other from Erode, comprising 12 people including girls and children.
 
 Officials identified the dead as D Vipin, 30, of Unnamalaikadai in Kanyakumari, S Suba, 28, of Thittakudi (Cuddalore), T Hemalatha, 30, of New Vilangudi (Madurai), J Punitha, 26, Chengalpattu, T Tamilselvan, 26, of Kavunthampadi (Erode), N Vivek, 26, of Kavunthampadi, K Akila, 27, of Kumbakonam, R Arun Prabakaran, 28, of Poonthamalli, M Divya of Valayapalayam (Erode) and T Nisha, 30, of Chennai. Nisha died in Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, where she was receiving treatment. 
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami said later in the day that the trekking expedition was undertaken without permission from forest department. In the first place, public were not allowed inside forest areas during summer months, considering the fact that wild animals looking for water might harm them. Besides, the forest became vulnerable to fires during summer, he said. The police have registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) against the owner of Tour Be India Holidays Pvt Ltd, Erode in this connection.
 
 However, the blaze and the subsequent emergency apparently caught the forest department napping. The Forest Survey of India sent out initial alerts on the fire at 11.20am on Sunday. This was after the FSI’s remote sensing sensors detected a “thermal anomaly” near Bodi in Theni. In the next three hours, two more alerts were sent by the central organisation based in Dehradun which were however ignored. It wasn’t until 4.30pm — five hours after the first alert — that the state forest department finally reacted. Locals said the fire broke out at noon on Sunday. S Sekar, an estate worker in Kolukkumalai, was one among the first to reach the spot. He said minor fires broke out once or twice a year, but he had not seen a blaze as intensive as the one on Sunday in recent years.
 
 “Poor spells of rain this year resulted in most forest areas drying up quickly. Otherwise the fire would not have occurred so early [ahead of summer],” said G Murugan, another estate worker. The chief minister and deputy CM O Panneerselvam visited the injured admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital and private hospitals in Madurai on Monday evening. The CM announced a solatium of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each deceased in the accident, Rs 1 lakh as compensation to the severely injured and Rs 50,000 to those mildly injured.
 
 Palaniswami said rescue measures were carried out on a war footing based on his orders. He stated that the Tamil Nadu government had urged defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman to use helicopters in the rescue. Responding to questions, the CM said that the trekking expedition was undertaken without permission from forest department. In the first place, public were not allowed inside forest areas during summer months, considering the fact that wild animals looking for water might harm them. Besides, the forest became vulnerable to fires during summer, he said. Only selected places are allowed for trekking and adequate security would have been given if the trekking teams had sought prior permission. Trekking between Kurangani and Top Station was allowed while Kolukkumalai route was barred from trekking activity, he said. 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi also mourned the deaths in the forest fire and wished those undergoing treatment a speedy recovery. He also praised the IAF, Garud commandos and the local administration for the rescue efforts.
 
 
