 Ali, an established name in Sufiana kalam today in India, had little clue that his popularity will come with a responsibility; an obligation towards his tribe, Mirasi, from the western-most frontier of India. The singer, who rocked the charts with numbers in movies such as Finding Fanny, Tashan, Bombay Summer and Ship of Theseus among others, is today a role model for singers and instrumentalists from his village. 
“Mere gaon mein sab mujhe ‘baba’ bulate hain,” he says, adding that the Mirasi tribe, who have been carrying the oral tradition of Sufiana kalam for eons, is today facing an acute identity crisis. And the onus of preserving the tribe’s rich musical heritage has come upon him, he says. “Our ancestors didn’t think about it during their time, because they didn’t foresee that the future will be this dark. But if we don’t preserve our 
 musical tradition for the next generation now, our heritage will be lost forever,” he rues.
 Tired of requesting for grants and aid from the government, Mukhtiyar decided to take things into his own hands. “I am making a riyaaz ghar (rehearsal house) in my village with my limited resources. It will be a kind of a conservatory where everything related to our tribe’s musical tradition — books, instruments, and manuscripts; whatever we have, will be kept. It will also have a rehearsal hall, where anybody and everybody pursuing music can come and rehearse. Though there won’t be a resident teacher, the space will be available for free,” he says, adding, “I don’t know if the government will ever help us in this endeavour. So, rather than waiting for them, we are taking things in our own hands and plans are afoot.”
 The singer today is a bread-earner for 20 families in his village, Pugal, near  . “I have taken a few musicians and instrumentalists from my village under my wing and I take them with me to concerts on a rotational basis. I am happy that I am able to do at least this much for my own people,” he says.
 Mukhtiyar’s musical journey however, hasn’t been a walk in the park. There was a time when he almost lost interest in singing and left his ancestral craft for close to two decades. “My father told me to look for a different profession as music was getting divided on religious lines — Muslims wouldn’t listen to Hindu poets and vice versa. I left music in 1985 and became a tailor till 1996. Thereafter, I was a shopkeeper for another two years. But I couldn’t keep myself away from music for long,” he informs. after rigorous riyaaz for four years, Mukhtiyar made his mark in the professional scene and went on to become a name to reckon with not just in India, but also abroad.
 The singer says that being born in his village, which is situated in the western most frontier of India, was a boon in itself because it helped him understand the nuances of Sufi music and grasp the core values of music, peace and harmony. When asked how, he says, “My village is in an area where three borders merge —two state borders of Punjab and Rajasthan and the international border with Pakistan. So, our culture is a concoction of three different cultures. For instance, I can speak four different languages — Punjabi, Urdu, Saraiki (a defiant of Multani) and Marwari. It helps when I am performing for different audiences. And it has also facilitated my understanding of poets and saints from these areas.Be it Bulleh Shah from Punjab, Mira Bai from Rajasthan or   from Sindh, I know their work and philosophy by heart.”
 Of late, Mukhtiyar has shifted his focus from Bollywood and is concentrating solely on collaborations. “We are traditional singers and if we get lost among the sea of commercial singers in the Hindi film industry, who will take care of our next generation? Moreover, integrity is a problem when you sing for Bollywood composers. Especially, if you are not educated and don’t have a strong PR, like me, you sometimes don’t get 
 credits for your endeavours,” he rues. 
 The singer, who has many collaborations with ace composers and writers from abroad such as French multi-instrumentalist Mathias Duplessy (of Finding Fanny fame) and Indian singers like  , to his name, is 
 currently working on an album with another French writer/composer. “I don’t remember his last name, but we call him Antony. We are making an album on religious tolerance, which I feel is the need of the hour. Keeping in mind today’s turbulent times in the country, we will put across the core message of all the religions — love and peace, to the people,” he says, signing off.
 
