CHANDIGARH: To encourage talent in sports, the Haryana government has framed a policy under which a sportsperson who wins gold at the Olympic Games would be appointed in the   ( ) or   (HPS) with seniority of eight years. 

 The policy, one of its kind in the country, would ensure early elevation of such sportspersons to the coveted IAS or IPS. 
 
 Though, that’s not all. A silver medalist in the Olympics would be appointed as HCS or HPS officer with four-year seniority. Also, a sportsperson winning the bronze medal at the Olympics, or a gold medal in a world championship (Olympic disciplines) and the Asian Games, would be appointed as HCS or HPS officers, but without the seniority.
 
 Those reaching the quarterfinals in the Olympics would be given a Group A post, while a participant in a quadrennial event would get a Group B post.
 
 Those winning gold medals at the Commonwealth Games would be given a Group A post. 
 
 The policy was given a go-ahead by the state cabinet on Wednesday. The cabinet, however, clarified that such appointments would be on an honorary basis to the HCS or HPS, and only those qualifying certain examinations, prescribed by   (HIPA) or the state government, would be given administrative responsibilities. Those who fail to qualify such exams would continue to work in a separate cadre of HCS or HPS (sports), and would work for promotion of sports in the state. They would be entitled to promotion, but in separate cadre only.
 
 The government has also given relaxation in age for such appointments as a sportsperson up to the age of 50 would be eligible to apply for such posts. However, for posts in the police department, the upper age limit will be 32.
 
 For para, blind, deaf and special Olympic sportspersons, the appointments will be made against vacancies reserved for persons with disabilities.
 
 The new policy has also prescribed that land may be provided by the government to a sportsperson who wishes to open a sports academy in the game in which he/she won an Olympic medal, provided there is no other world-class academy in that discipline in Haryana.
 
 Sources confirmed that  , principal secretary (sports) and the brain behind the policy, had argued for more than an hour in the meeting to convince the cabinet to accept the policy. “In four years in India, around 2,500 persons have been appointed as IAS or IPS officers, but in Olympics, which come after four years, we hardly get medals. The country has immense potential and its sportspersons need opportunities. Haryana’s   would help the country win more medals,” Khemka said when asked about the new policy.
 
 
 
 As per the policy, shooter Manu Bhaker, who recently won a gold medal in the Commonwealth Games, would be entitled for a Group A post in Haryana government on attaining the age of 18.
 
 
