For years, our filmmakers have tried to come up with Tamil titles for their projects so that they can enjoy tax exemption. There have been several controversies around changing of titles in the last minute, too. Not to mention bizarre instances like that of the Udhayanidhi-starrer Manithan, which was denied an exemption after it was alleged that ‘Manithan’ was not a Tamil word. Almost a decade ago, there was the Kamal Haasan-starrer Mumbai Express, which had to face this issue, and it continued till recently, when films like Deal, Power Paandi, had to change their titles to introduce Tamil words like ‘Vaa’ Deal and ‘Pa’ Paandi, respectively. 

 However, thanks to GST (though it had a different set of side-effect on industry, too), directors are now free to use any language for the title for their projects. And so, it is with great gusto that the industry is coming up with one aangila title after another. After all, a sleek English title adds to the smartness of the movie, you see. Or so they think...
 
 
 
 This Vikram-starrer will be one of the first big-budget ‘English-titled’ films to hit the screens post GST. Directed by  , this project was titled long before the verdict came out. Since the time the gangster drama got an official title, there were speculations of the makers going for a title change owing to the potential tax issue. The director had said that the title was chosen keeping in mind the popularity of the word ‘sketch’ among gangsters in  , on whom the movie was made. However, the makers stuck to their decision, and the GST changes only came as a relief to the makers.
 
 
 
 The title of this film was announced a few days before GST came into existence. The announcement was a surprise to movie buffs as the makers made it official during the audio launch of Gemini Ganesanum Suruli Rajanum. By the time the surprise regarding the project was revealed on stage, it was confirmed that Kollywood movies need not come up a with Tamil title anymore, though that was not necessarily the reason for them to opt for an English title. Interestingly, one of Venkat Prabhu’s earlier films, Mass, was changed to   due to the tax-exemption issue.
 
 
 Thiagarajan Kumararaja, who made the critically-acclaimed  , is back to directing a film after more than six years. His film, which features a stellar cast, including the likes of Vijay Sethupathi, Fahadh Faasil,   Akkineni among others, was initially titled as Aneethi Kathaigal. And then, the director surprised one and all by posting a picture of Sethupathi on Twitter a few months ago, along with this English title. And, a few days ago, he had posted a sneak peek of an intriguing sequence, which had Samantha in it, and reiterated that this is indeed the title of his film, through a tweet.
 
 
 
 The horror film, which hit screens in December, was actually announced much earlier. Directed by Sinish and starring Jai, Anjali and Janani Iyer, the spooky film had a smooth release as it opened to the audience much later, post GST came into effect. 
 
 
 
 One of the acclaimed films of last year, the movie, which threw light on the darker side of technology growth, too, was a bilingual film. Earlier, even films that were dubbed from English or Telugu used to have Tamil titles. Lens, surprisingly, retained the title the makers used for its   version.
 
 
 
 This bilingual film was safe with regard to its title, thanks to its post-GST release. However, the film had to suffer due to the theatre strike proposed by   as a mark of protest against the local body entertainment tax.
 
 
 
 The heist film, which released almost a year ago (before GST), didn't run into any big issues. But the makers had once clarified that ‘rum’ is actually a Tamil word with a different meaning, and that the title has no connection with the alcoholic beverage. 
 
 
