KOCHI: Union minister of state for shipping   visited   ( ) on Wednesday and announced that the Centre would provide jobs to dependents of those killed in Tuesday's accident. 

 He also said that the government would provide appropriate education assistance to children of the deceased. Their education cost, till the completion of degree-level education, will be assured, he added. Five persons, including, two fire safety officers, were killed in an explosion during routine repairs inside ONCG's ship on Tuesday.
 
 The minister visited Sreeroop PT, Jaison Varghese, Abhilash T and   who are admitted to hospital with injuries. He also stated that a sum, equivalent to the salary of two months will be disbursed to victims immediately. In addition to the statutory compensation relief, the company has been asked to disburse wages to the injured till they return for work, the minister said.
 
 Following an interaction with unions and associations, the minister and  , CMD of CSL, promised adequate support to all affected families. The minister asked CSL officials to carry out a thorough probe and submit a report to ministry of shipping.
 
 Meanwhile, joint director general of mercantile marine department   said such accidents could be avoided if proper precautions are taken. "There are proper guidelines. The CSL accident is learnt to have occurred during welding works. We can pinpoint the reason only after the probe but such accidents can be avoided... A ship's crew should inspect the vessel properly before giving it for repair," he said.
 
 A preliminary assessment by top officials with factories and boilers department stated that the accident was caused by a momentary high-impact explosion near the A/C plant, which is situated above the ballast tank. The explosion might have been caused by some combustible gas in the chamber or surroundings.
 
 The department probe will continue in the coming days. "Some combustible gas must have been present. We are yet to ascertain whether it was acetylene or methane from the sewage treatment plant nearby or freon," said an official with the probe team.
 
 "As the vessel is owned by ONGC, there are chances of oil presence in minor quantity. We can understand that the worker who first stepped in to the chamber alerted the firefighting team. Then, the firefighting team went in and there was an explosion. The team did not get time to ascertain the cause," he said.
 
 At the same time, the company clarified that the source of gas leakage and reason for the explosion is yet to be confirmed and it would be clarified only after an internal enquiry is completed. 
 
 The site of the accident has been cordoned off. The area is being investigated by the forensic wing of the police department.
 
 
