Indore: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court on Monday came down heavily on the civic body for demolishing a house in Raoji Bazaar area, leaving only a small strip of land behind. IMC then offered them an option to build more number of floors and occupy minimum open space area, instead of giving compensation.

 Division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh directed IMC to submit on affidavit their records and maps and details of area that was being left behind after the demolition of the house. 
 
 The matter has been listed for hearing on Thursday, when IMC has to submit their affidavit along with reply, in the petition filed by Duraiya Bai through advocate Manohar Dalal. The petitioner has alleged that original dimension of her plot was 113.63 square metre. Of which IMC demolished construction over 85.72 square metre, leaving behind only 27.9 square metre land, which measured eight by 37 feet (facing the road).
 
 “What is the point of giving an FAR (permission to build more floors and cover minimum open space area) when the depth of the land piece is only eight feet,” advocate Manohar Dalal arguing on behalf of the petitioner said. 
 
 On the other hand, IMC said the petitioner had filed fifth petition regarding the same issue and in the previous petitions had given an undertaking that she will remove the illegal construction herself, which she violated. 
 
 “Also, her construction was an encroachment as she had not submitted building permission when issued notice and hence was not liable to receive monetary compensation. If she was dissatisfied with the FAR, she could have approached the collector and filed complaint there,” advocate Rishi Tiwari, appearing on behalf of IMC said. 
 
 In a connected petition filed by a resident of Raoji Bazaar area whose house was also demolished, IMC submitted that they were ready to negotiate a reasonable compensation under Section 306 of the Municipal Corporation Act. 
 
 BOX
 
 In another petition, division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh granted a stay on the demolition activities on Chandrabhaga main road and clubbed three petitions together. The petition was filed by a resident of the area Gopal Pareta through advocate Anand Mohan Mathur in which the court officially granted a stay on all the demolition activities till the next date of hearing. The petition by Pareta has challenged the constitutionality of Section 305 of municipal corporations act. All the three petitions will be heard by the court in the second week of April.
 
 
