AGRA: Three doctors of  , one of them a woman, died early on Sunday while four others of the premier institute were injured in a horrific accident on the Yamuna Expressway. The accident occurred near Kaiti village under Surir police station of Mathura district at around 2.30 am when the SUV they were travelling in rammed into a mini truck.

 According to the police, the group of young doctors, who were posted as resident doctors in emergency medicine department of the AIIMS, was travelling to Agra to celebrate birthday of Dr  , who was also killed in the accident.
 
 The truck’s driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot. The victims were identified as Dr Harshad Wankhade(34), Dr   (25) and Dr Himbala (24), who died on the spot, while the injured, identified as Dr Catherine Halam, Dr Mahesh Kumar, Dr   and Dr Abhinava Singh, were first taken to a private hospital in Mathura, from where they were later referred to AIIMS' Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre (JPNATC) in New Delhi.
 
 Dr Wankhade was senior resident doctor, while the others were junior resident doctors (non-academic).
 
 “The group of doctors was headed to Agra to see the Taj Mahal and celebrate their senior colleague, Dr Harshad Wankhade’s birthday. He was at the wheel of the Toyota Innvoa when the crash occurred. The speeding car rammed into the rear of a mini truck, which was ferrying iron pipes and bars,” DSP Mishra said.
 
 “Since it was very late, we assume that the driver might have fallen asleep. One of the injured doctors informed us that all of them were sleeping in the car when the accident occurred,” Mishra added. Dr Harshad Wankhade, said to be an adventure lover, hailed from Balapur in Akola district of  , while Dr Yashpreet Singh was from Fazilka district of Punjab and Dr   belonged to Haryana.
 
 Dr  , director, AIIMS, New Delhi, has expressed deep condolence on the untimely and unfortunate demise of the young resident doctors. He has constituted a team comprising dean (academic), dean (research), chief, JPNATC, additional medical superintendent, JPNATC and registrar to provide care to the injured and assistance to the family members of the resident doctors.
 
 
