Presenting the Most Desirable Women 2017 on the Bengali television. Beauty that sets hearts aflutter, brains that are sharper than perfectly-honed knives and talent that cannot go unnoticed — they rule the small screen and every man’s dreams

 
 
 
 
  
 
 She started out as a model and turned heads in the many ads that she did as a school student. Though she had no ambitions in acting, she was approached for the role of a Marwari girl in Sobinoye Nibedan. The day her ICSE results came out, she signed up for the part. There was no looking back ever since for Madhumita Chakraborty, who entered the drawing room with back-to-back serials like Care Korina, Bojhena Shey Bojhena and Kusum Dola. Currently playing Iman in Kusum Dola, she’s seen as a gritty girl, who braves the many odds after marriage and realises her love for her husband. She may come across as super-confident but Madhumita admits that she can be confused at times.
 
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Married to  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 This sultry siren started out with   on the small screen and took a ‘big’ leap with back-to-back films like Parbona Ami Charte Toke, Haripada Bandwala and Abhimaan. The actress is back on television, playing Dali, a snooty girl, who has her nose high up in the air in Bhojo Gobindo. In real life,Swastika Dutta is a complete contrast to her on-screen persona, and how we love that!
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Single
 
 
 
  
 
 A young television actress, who first entered the Bengali drawing room with Bedeni Moluar Katha, is known for serials like Potol Kumar Gaanwala, Bodhuboron and Sannyasi Raja. Her first tryst with television was with a negative role in Bedeni Moluar Katha, but she was noticed for her efforts. In  ,she plays the role of a strong woman, Bimbavati Devi. A chirpy youngster in real life, Adrija is fast gaining popularity in the telly world.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Dating Bedeni Moluar Katha co-star Gourab
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Even before she got into acting, Payel had carved a niche for herself in dance. Modelling was a natural progression and she got an offer to play Kapalkundala in the TV series, Sahityer Sera Samay. She next did Ekdin Protidin,but got noticed as Sati in Durga. Payel has since been a regular on the small screen and has played the lead in Behula, Alo, Maa Durga and Tobu Mone Rekho. In her current mega project, Ardhangini,she is playing Ganga, a negative role. Payel, who was once called for the film, Icche,has plans to get into the big screen only when the right offer comes her way.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Married to Dwaipayan Das
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The pretty television actress always harboured a dream of becoming a leading lady. As a child, she was quite taken to acting and dancing — her dramatic expressions complementing her knack for both. She credits her success to her parents who frequented city studios to drop her pictures. And as luck would have it, Oindrila gained popularity with the megaserial Saat Pake Bandha and became a household name. There’s been no looking back ever since. She’s now a part of a megaserial, Phagun Bou.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Dating Ankush
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 She got her first break in the serial Rashi,where she played the title role. Geetasree, who excelled as the rebellious character, loves to stand up for what she feels is right. Next she did Debi Pakkha and will soon be playing the lead in Jamai Raja. The latter will see her in the role of Damini, an IPS officer. Meanwhile, Geetasree, who recently debuted on the big screen, is also shooting for a web series, Virgin Mohito, with Sudeshna Roy and Abhijit Guha.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Single
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Armed with an MBA degree, Trina Saha had other career choices, but she decided to become a director. She first started assisting Aparna Sen in Arshinagar and then,worked with Srijit Mukherji in Zulfiqar. While she was still caught up with other ventures, Trina got a call from a production house, which was looking for an actress to play the lead in  . In no time, the role was hers and Trina breathed life into the character of Tori, a spoilt brat, who undergoes a complete change after marrying Khoka.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Single
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 With Durga,her first-ever venture,Sandipta Sen became an overnight sensation. Not sitting on her laurels, this student of psychology did serials like Tumi Ashbe Bole, Tapur Tupur and Protidaan. In the latter, which is on air, she plays the role of Simul, an English professor. An upright woman, she is seen focused on women’s education. No wonder, the character is close to Sandipta’s heart, who believes in women’s empowerment.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Rumoured to be dating Rahul
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Long back, she auditioned for a music reality show, and was even selected for it. But life had other things in store for Debottama Saha, who forayed into acting by chance. She was busy with her studies, when a relative asked her to audition for a part. Debottama, who is from Assam, took a chance and was almost sure that she was not going to make it. But she did. Debottama is currently playing the character of Uma in E Amar Gurudakshina. A fun-loving girl,living in a village, Uma is a dream come true for Debottama.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Single
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Most get into movies from television, but Srijani has done it the other way round. She first forayed into films with Chilekotha and then,got selected for the lead in megaserial Kajollata through auditions. She plays Kajol, an innocent and transparent girl with many shades. Srijani feels her theatre background has helped her train as an actress and she wants to continue doing good work, both on the big screen and small.
 
 RELATIONSHIP STATUS: Single
 
