GURGAON:   dumps on roadsides, non-functional toilets, water-logged roads and sewage water flooding the roads are just a few things that might bring down the city’s Swachh rankings in the upcoming Swachh Survekshan this January.

  
  While on a survey of the city, TOI found out several spots, both in the new city and the old, where garbage was dumped improperly. Three garbage piles were spotted in Chakkarpur, one behind the water tank, another on the main road near   and a third in Khandsa. It must be mentioned that the sites in Chakkarpur and the one on the main road are designated for EcoGreen waste transfer centres. But the situation at these spots is far from ideal, with the waste not segregated, transfer centres stinking and definitely an eyesore, unlike what was promised. “We collect waste from households here, and then transfer it to Bandhwari. There is no scope of segregation here,” said an EcoGreen staffer on site.
 
 EcoGreen officials said they are still in the process of building waste transfer centres. Once they are built, there won’t be any open garbage dumps. “Waste dumping has a cycle and while we are clearing the sites designated for transfer stations, they might cause garbage pile-ups on the streets,” said Ankit Agarwal, CEO, EcoGreen Energy Private Limited. He added they have got additional machinery working on the ground to make sure Gurgaon is clean during the upcoming Swachh Survekshan. Gurgaon won’t have open dumps within the next three months, he said.
 
 However, garbage dumps are not the only thing in the way of Gurgaon getting a better Swachh rating. Swachh Survekshan 2018 was launched in July 2017, under which 4,041 cities across the country are being assessed for sanitation and for implementation of schemes under   Mission, which include solid waste management and making cities free from open defecation, among others.
 
 While Gurgaon was declared open defecation free, many areas in the city still witness open defecation, especially in the slums and areas with migrant labour populations. The city has a mere 108 public toilets for a population of over 20 lakh. Many of these are often found locked, including ones in Shivaji Nagar, Vikas Sadan, Sheetla Mata road, Jharsa road and  . 
 
  The latest survey will assess availability of water connections to toilets, recovery of Operation & Maintenance costs of Community and Public toilets, liquid waste management though treatment and septage disposal, segregation of municipal waste at source etc. The Swachh Survekshan this year assigns 40% weightage to citizen feedback, and 5% to innovative systems. According to a Government of India release, there will be strict scrutiny of claims made by civic bodies, and if any of the claims are found to be false, there is a 33% negative marking. 
 
 Anu Sheokhand, MCG nodal officer for Swachh  , did not revert to calls and messages from TOI.
 
 
