
The makers of the 'Pyaar Ka Punchnama' franchise have brought a fresh slice-of-life romantic comedy 'Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety', this wedding season, starring Kartik Aaryan, Nushrat Bharucha and Sunny Singh. This upcoming new-age love triangle with bromance and romance going hand-in-hand for it, has four songs, three of which are on the Top 20 Mirchi Music charts already.
 
 'Bom Diggy Diggy' by Zack Knight and Jasmin Walia is already a familiar song (the original single had released in August last year and is debuting our charts this week) and is immensely popular at clubs. This one has been hardly modified for this movie, and has all it takes to stay with you long after you press stop. This fun, catchy song grows on you and is surely going to be the house party anthem. 
 
 'Chhote Chhote Peg' has been rendered in a fun way by the singer trio Neha Kakkar, Navraj Hans and  . The entertaining rap by the latter, adds to this groovy track. This one is a remake of Anand Raj Anand’s 'Tote Tote Ho  ' that was sung by Hans Raj Hans and the remake recreated by   has Hans Raj’s son Navraj. The beats of this track might just make it the party anthem for the year.
 
 The next 'Dil Chori' is another dance track sung by YoYo, Simar Kaur and Ishers. Honey Singh has recreated Hans Raj Hans’ original song ‘Dil Chori Sada Ho Gaya’ and has retained Han Raj’s hook line for this version. This song has not budged from our Mirchi charts for the last seven weeks. The upbeat, peppy number is an earworm and you cannot help but foot-tap to it.
 
 Penned by Kumaar and composed by the talented youngster Amaal Mallik, 'Subah Subah' has been sung by   and Prakriti Kakkar. The only original track in the entire album, 'Subah Subah' has an inherent soulful feel to it, despite the foot-tapping lilt of the soundscape. This Amaal-Kumaar-Arijit combo (they’ve earlier done 'Sooraj Dooba Hai', (Roy, 2015)) has been on our charts since the last six weeks and once you hear the track, you know why.
 Overall, this album is one that’s packed with groovy chartbusters!
 
 
