GURUGRAM: A 26-year-old daily wage labourer was   to death on Tuesday morning by two men who started an argument with him for shouting at a dog. 

 Twenty-six-year-old Vinod Yadav, originally from   in Bihar, painted houses. On Tuesday, he and three of his co-workers were walking from a construction site in Sector 46 to another in Sector 38 where the four had been living and working for the past 10-15 days. Around 1am, they had reached the Indian Oil petrol pump near   when a small black dog came charging at them. 
 
 According to Gajender, who was with Vinod, the barking dog emerged from a nearby slum. Vinod started shouting at the dog to scare it away. However, soon two men came out of the slums and started questioning them. 
 
 Gajender told police that one of the men was wearing a black t-shirt and another a red one. The one in black allegedly slapped Jitender and said, “We love this dog more than our life... and can even kill someone, if needed.” 
 
 According to Gajender, apart from the victim, Jitender and another Vinod Kumar were accompanying him at the time. Two of the workers told the men that if they liked the dog so much they should tie it up, so that it doesn’t bother pedestrians. However, this made the men angrier and the man in black slapped Gajender. 
 
 According to Gajender’s complaint, when the labourers objected, the man in red said, “Chetan, get the weapon from inside the jhuggi. Let’s teach these Biharis a lesson.” The men returned with a knife-like object and immediately stabbed Vinod who fell on the ground. After this, they fled the spot in a car numbered 4050, the complaint said.
 
 “We stopped a passing auto and took Vinod to   where the doctor checked him and declared him dead,” Gajender said, seeking action against the two men who were allegedly referring to each other as Chetan and Bholu.
 
 An FIR was registered at the Sadar police station under sections 302 (murder) and 34(common intent). Additional SHO sub inspector Suresh said that police teams were tracking down the two men who had been identified. “The two groups of men had never met and the fight took place over a dog. Our teams are tracking the two men and they will be arrested soon,” he said, adding that Vinod’s post-mortem will be conducted on Wednesday by a medical board.
 
