TRICHY: Failure on the part of the higher education department in fixing fees has led to arts and science colleges declaring inflated fees and thereby making higher education inaccessible to many students across the state. The average fees for courses have gone up by over 30% this year despite no official announcement being made by the higher education department revising course fees. 

 The directorate of collegiate education, which is the authority to take a decision on fee revision, has not revised fees for arts and science colleges since 1997. What is worse, officials of the higher education department have been remaining silent over the violations. Many colleges have legitimized their unilateral decision to raise fees by blaming it on rollout of goods and services tax and increasing operational cost. 
 
 When TOI spoke to director of collegiate education S  , she said that the fee structure for all aided courses was the same, be it in government aided or self-financing courses. But colleges might be charging development fees in addition to the prescribed tuition fee. She maintained that colleges were following the fee structure prescribed way back in 1997. However, when TOI checked websites of some of the government aided colleges, the fee had grown manifold over the years. 
 
 The government order number 265 passed in 1997 was meant for the regulation of tuition fee in government, government aided and self-financing colleges. As per the GO, a nominal tuition fee of Rs 500 in government aided college and Rs 1,350 in self-financing colleges should be collected for a BA course. However, the total fee in almost all aided colleges is shown to be more than Rs 8,000 on their websites, up from Rs 5,000-6,000 till last year. The collegiate education director was evasive when asked about this huge hike. She said that violations can be brought to the notice of the joint director of collegiate education in every district for further action. 
 
 The directorate of collegiate education has been insisting on colleges to publish their fee structure for various courses in the prospectus. However, it is pointed out that by not fixing the fee at regular intervals, the department was complicit in allowing the violation for the past two decades. It has been remaining a mute spectator to these violations. 
 
 “Admissions guidelines issued by the higher education department are nothing but annual ornamental rituals,” says former president of association of university teachers   quoting instances from the past when admission guidelines were issued by many institutions after the admissions concluded. 
 
 Saying that colleges are also found to be violating a majority of the admission guidelines, state youth wing secretary of   said that an application form was sold for over Rs 200 - 500 when it should be Rs 50 inclusive of the registration fee. Besides, as per rule, a candidate could apply for more than one course in a college using one application but colleges asked the candidates to apply for each course separately to earn more by way of selling applications.
 
 
