NEW DELHI: The Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP) declared the inter and high school results 2018 yesterday, April 29, 2018, starting from 12.30 pm. The result were uploaded on the official website of the board - http://upsessb.org.

 The latest report from sources suggest that there could be half-an-hour delay in result declaration. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 All you have to do is enter your details such as mobile number, email ID, name roll number, class below and click on submit. Your result will be sent to your mobile number or email ID.
 
 The result will be announced at a press conference in Allahabad at 12.30 pm on April 29. The press meet will be addressed by the UP Secondary Education Board secretary Neena Srivastava. 
 
 
 
 
 There's a very fine line between what you're supposed to do before the results and after the results, and that fine line is the MAIN RESULT at UP BOARD EXAMINATIONS - 2018. You can either wreck your efforts while sitting and being panicked, or you can simply breathe and take things, one-by-one. The results are merely the final conclusion of your preparations, but not your brain skills and practical vision. These scores will help you choose your choice of courses and/or colleges in future, but will not decide your future. The toppers from the last year examinations - TEJASVI DEVI & PRIYANSHI TIWARI were not aware of them being the toppers. But, even at the end of the day, they kept saying - "We were just expecting for good marks from our examinations." They didn't expect to be the toppers, but they believed in themselves. 
 
 
 The students are supposed to have that strong belief in them, so that no one or nothing can scare them away, in the name of results. 
 
 
 
 
 Once the results are out, they can be either below, above or approximately equal to your expectations. This calls for the solution to your query - "WHAT NOW?" Now that you have your results in your hands, you can revise your options and choices. This score will help in building your career, the right way, and you can mold it into any direction of your choice. If in tenth standard, you can think about your options in your choice of course, and further plan the future college & profession. Whereas the students, who have their score of 12th grade's scores in their hands, they can look out for colleges and send in their results to the application forms, in their preferable list of colleges. 
 
 
 Digesting and reacting to those things, in a systematic manner, helps one to understand their direction & vision better!
 
