TRICHY: The state government on Wednesday announced in the assembly that a special examination will be held to regularise eligible ad hoc   in government arts colleges across the state, reviving the hopes of 3,544 guest lecturers for permanent appointment. Minister for higher education K P Anbalagan said that the special entrance test would be conducted through teachers recruitment board (TRB) and successful candidates given permanent appointment as lecturers.

 The Tamil Nadu Government Arts   Guest Lecturers’ Welfare Association has welcomed the move. “Many who retired as ad hoc teachers were expecting successive governments to take steps to regularize them. The two-decades old wait has finally come to an end,” said general secretary of the association  , a guest lecturer for almost two decades in a government college in Chennai. 
 
 It was in 1997 that ad hoc lecturers were hired for the first time on hourly basis in government arts colleges to tide over vacant teacher posts. Later, they were paid a consolidated pay of Rs 2,500 a month which gradually increased to Rs 15,000 in two decades. Many of the teachers struggle to make ends meet with the low salary but have been continuing to remain in the job in the hope that they would be regularized someday. However, among the ad hoc lecturers, many who have aged expect a “special chance” in consideration of their long service. 
 
 “We have lost more than what we would gain after this, but we can console ourselves that we wouldn’t have been anywhere without this opportunity,” says T Nedumaran, state coordinator of the association. Despite having PhD and the required experience, the ad hoc lecturers were not allowed to guide PhD students whereas their counterparts in the private and government aided colleges were allowed to do so, he said. 
 
 While the announcement has brought to end an issue that has been simmering for over two decade now, it poses a vital question on the fate of many who are not qualified as per the   norms to take part in the selection process. Sources in the higher education department say that among the 3,544 ad hoc guest lecturers, only 1,330 are qualified for permanent appointment. While it is just 37% of the total numbers, it also means the end of the road for the rest of the ad hoc teachers in service. 
 
 “Apart from the announcement that a special exam would be conducted, there is no clarity yet on the mode of selection to be adopted by the state government. We will decide our next step after knowing that,” said Arunagiri. Another member of the association said that it would be wise if the government considers the conventional selection process which takes experience into consideration apart from an interview. 
 
 
