: I have had my share of  , which always ended-up in ugly break-ups. I always thought I am in love, but the situation and people changed with time. Sometimes, my partners cheated on me (who claimed to be in love), and there were times when I fell out of love.Now, I don’t buy this concept of true love. I don’t feel like getting into a relationship because I know it would take an uglier turn with time. I feel a relationship is all about making compromises, and love is just a temporary thing. I am 29-year-old and my parents have started looking for a girl for me. But seeing my past experiences, where I have been lied and cheated on, I don’t think I will be able to invest in a relationship. What should I do?—
 
 : In my practice, I’ve witnessed the one thing, which has the potential to hurt like nothing else, is ‘love’ and it can lead to broken hearts, lost trust, damaged self-esteem and disillusionment with relationships in general. Thus, it is great that you are seeking clarity here.

 
 We often enter our first relationship with a romanticised idea of ‘true love’ to find meaning and fulfillment. But for that to happen, true love should go beyond any selfishness or self-interest of one partner to nurture and have a positive effect on both partner’s self-esteem and sense of well-being. But in reality, humans can become selfish, deceptive and mislead others for their personal gains. Several experiences of such dysfunctional relationships can make you challenge the idea of true love and make you disillusioned about relationships altogether. However, there are several factors responsible for the state you are in. You should reflect on your own relationship with yourself. Is there a pattern that is commonly seen in all the past relationships? Do you give yourself time to grieve the loss? Do you try to understand your own needs before jumping into the next? When you enter into a relationship incomplete and unhealed, how can you expect to have a healthy relationship next?
 
 
 Once you are out of the relationship that didn’t work, it is important to allow the healing process to begin, which can help you to learn how to trust yourself and other potential partners again. We tend to minimise our pain believing it will go away on its own, but the wound remains unhealed making it difficult to trust again.
 
 
 While you do believe you have had your share, did you take a break between all the relationships you mentioned? Could you reflect on what it meant for you and allow your emotions to stabilize before making any new decisions about any new relationships? If we take this time, we usually get into the next one with a better attitude and for the right reasons; and chances of surviving it are higher. It does take a lot of repeated positive experiences before you are able to start trusting again.
 
 
 You believe relationships are all about compromises. When we enter a new relationship in an unhealthy manner, our unresolved and unpredictable emotions usually interfere with our logic and make us ignore our reality. Our stubborn will to somehow make the relationships work, make us extend temporary relationships into permanent time frames. Often relationships that are meant to end continue because both partners ‘settle’ for each other and compromise on their true needs. On the other hand, when we are in a relationship for the right reasons, there are adjustments but they come with acceptance. When we learn to accept the differences between us and our partner, it stops feeling like a compromise.
 
 
 Another factor that causes a repeated pattern of similar experiences is your own relationship with yourself and your past baggage. Reflect on what past experiences are proving to be a hurdle for love to flow freely in your life. Unresolved hurt makes us struggle to give and receive love with ease, openness and vulnerability. We then attract dysfunctional relationship patterns in our lives. In my practice, I have seen people tend to bring their history of being treated in less-than-loving manner by their families, and they tend to seek out or recreate these same dynamics in their adult relationships. To become more loving thus means recognising how we tend to self-sabotage and try healing from it. This also influences the negative feelings we harbor towards ourselves. If we cannot love ourselves, it is difficult to give and receive love from others. Thus, I often work on their sense of self-worth and challenge their negative self-concept and critical inner voice.
 
 
 Rebuilding yourself and your ability to give and receive love will not only determine your relationships but also your overall well-being—thus do take time to work on it. If you find you are unable to trust yourself or any potential partners over time, a professional therapist can help you work through your feelings to help you move forward in a healthy manner.
 
 
 Awareness, forgiveness, acceptance and love can restore anything that is broken!
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
