Whenever measures like car-free days or the odd-even schemes are introduced in NCR, Gurugramers have had to look for alternative modes of transport. However, in a city that often faces hour-long traffic jams and gridlocks, residents are unwilling to take the bus service, due to its substandard condition. Taking the situation into account, the state government recently formed the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL), a company with the specific mandate to plan and implement the city bus service in Gurgaon. It was announced that 500 new buses will be deployed in the city in five packages. Out of the proposed 500 buses, 200 are likely to hit the road by March 2018.

  
  
 
 
 In order to rejuvenate public transportation in the city, authorities also sought recommendations from residents. From increase in frequency of buses and well-maintained   to safety of female commuters - Gurugrammers list out things that will make them ditch their cars and hop on buses. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Ravish, an IT professional working in Udyog Vihar, says, "In areas like Udyog Vihar and Cyber City, the bus service should be more frequent. The frequency is okay in some areas like the Huda City Metro Station, but in other areas, commuters have to wait for hours for buses."
 
 "I used to take the bus earlier, but I discontinued, thanks to the long waiting hours. I have now switched to shared autos and cabs to reach office on time," says Anjana, a Cyber City resident. 
 
  
  
 
 
 If the frequency is improved, commuters say they would prefer taking buses. "If the bus service was made better, I would opt to take the bus to reach the Metro station. Also, buses can thrive in Gurgaon as there are many areas that are not connected by the Metro," says Ravish. 
 
 "If the routes and stops are well-planned, buses will be the most preferred option for commuters," says Rahul, a Palam Vihar resident.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 There are very few well-maintained bus stops across the city, and even landmark places like IFFCO Chowk don't have a proper bus stop.
 
 "If there are planned routes and well-constructed bus stops, like the one near Sector 14, commuters would know where to wait for the bus. In the absence of proper bus stops, the drivers often stop the buses randomly. Also, there should be digital boards with expected waiting time and routes, like the ones in the Metro, to keep passengers informed," says Anjana. 
 
  
  
 
 "Recently my 60-year-old uncle was asked to get down from a moving bus in the middle road because there was no place for the bus to stop," said Nidhi, a Sector 54 resident. 
 
 
 "Since there are not enough buses, most of them remain over-crowded throughout the day. The conductor can often be seen hanging out on the door as there is no room for him inside the bus. There should be cap on the number of passengers who can board a bus," says Rahul. 
 
 "Taking advantage of over-crowded buses, hooligans often misbehave with female commuters. If only a limited number of people are allowed on the bus, such instances will reduce," says Sarita, who works in Udyog Vihar and lives in Delhi. 
 
  
  Commuters get down from a city bus in the middle of the road in Gurgaon
 
 
 
 "I am always a little concerned about my safety when travelling in buses after dark. The authorities should monitor the behaviour of drivers and conductors. Also, I think inclusion of female staff will make city buses safer," says Anjali, who works in Sector 18. 
 
 
 Several residents suggest introduction of an app to save commuters’ time. "Morning hours are crucial. Therefore, if I could track bus schedules, its arrival time, and its route through an app, I would certainly prefer taking a bus over a cab," says Moumita, a Sector 23 resident. 
 
  
  
 
 
 "When the AC buses were started, they were in brilliant condition. Now, they are so dirty and make so much noise. That is why maintenance is essential," says Sandeep Pathak, who commutes from Faridabad to Gurgaon. 
 
 "The new buses should have dustbins and regular cleaning should be mandatory. I will not solely blame the authorities, it is also the commuters’ responsibility to maintain cleanliness, therefore fines should be levied for littering," says Ananya. 
 
 
 "We requested special bus service to our work area, but it was discontinued because there was no space for the buses to take a turn," says Ravish. Sanchi, a Sector 17C resident, says, "Along with assigned bus stops, there should be assigned bus lanes."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 As per Haryana Roadways officials, currently, conductors and drivers have to take a written exam, after which, selected drivers go for a driving test. The interview rounds have been discontinued. Commuters say that drivers and conductors should have some minimum education and training. "Trained drivers and well-behaved conductors are very important," says Moumita. "The conductors have so much crowd to deal with, they end up misbehaving. And bus drivers often resort to rash driving," says Sandeep. 
  
 --Aarushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
