Nagpur: A shocking attempt of kidnapping was foiled after alert family members managed to rescue two children from the forest of Suradevi locality on Saturday. Police have already nabbed the abductor but his real motive behind the crime is yet to come to fore.

 Nidhi, aged about five years and a one-and-half-year-old boy Daddu who live in her neighbourhood were abducted by 32-year-old Dilbagh Singh Gill from Shribas Nagar slums at Mahadula luring them with chocolates. Gill had also promised the children, who were playing in their neighbourhood, to take them for a joyride on his bike before sneaking them away from the locality. 
 
 Police said Gill, who worked as an amateur masseur, had been staying at a rented place at Panjra. A native of Punjab, Gill used to visit a woman customer’s place at Shribas Nagar for rendering his service of message on a regular basis. It was while visiting the locality that Gill had already befriended the children. 
 
 Gill was spotted by a relative of Nidhi when she, along with Daddu, was being taken away on the bike by Gill. Left surprised, Nidhi’s relatives tried to attract her attention asking where was she heading. Gill, opted to speed away, without stopping even when he had spotted the relative trying to stop him. After having taken the children for some more distance, another person had tried to gesture at Gill asking him where was he taking the boy and the girl on bike.
 
 In the meantime, Nidhi’s relative had alerted her family members. Nidhi’s father had started following the road towards the direction in which Gill had taken his daughter and another child from the locality. He was guided by a private company’s security guard towards the direction in which the children were taken by Gill. The guard too had noticed the unusual manner in which the children were taken on a bike towards the forest. 
 
 A shocked Nidhi’s father was relieved when he spotted his daughter and the boy inside the forest while Gill was nowhere to be found. The children were crying when Nidhi’s father rescued them. The family members of Nidhi and Daddu later approached Koradi police who managed to round up Gill from Panjra. The cops said Gill is not clearly revealing the motive behind his abducting the children. 
 
 
