CHANDIGARH: To promote the wood-based industry, the   government is going to amend the existing rules and exempting units based on social forestry species like poplar, eucalyptus, melia ( ) from taking licence. The state government is also deliberating upon reducing the mandatory distance for setting up such wood-based industry from the existing 10 km from forest area to 1 km.

 Once these rules get the cabinet approval, social forestry-based   will just have to register with the state government and there would be no need for them to go through the existing cumbersome licence process. As per the existing rules, before granting licence to the woodbased industry, the state government authorities take into consideration the availability of wood.
 
 As of now, bulk of the raw material of social forestry species grown by Punjab farmers like poplar, eucalyptus and melia (derek) is transported to the wood-based industry at   in  . This way, not only farmers get less price of their produce but also have to bear transportation cost.
 
 A senior officer said, “Rationalization of rules would boost the industrial promotion, ensure more employment and also better returns to the farmers growing such trees.”
 
 Even under the new industrial policy launched last year, the state government had decided that a park (infrastructure) would be developed for the wood-based industry to ensure availability of common facilities to the units.
 
 As per the central government’s guidelines, either there should be a state policy for the wood-based industry or the industry should be established at least at a distance of 10 km from the forest. But the Punjab government was facing problem since the state has forest areas very near to the roads, canals and bundhs at most places. So it meant that the wood-based industry could be set up at very few places. Therefore the Punjab government took up the case with the central government and the Centre exempted Punjab government only in case of junior forests.
 
 While rationalizing the existing rules, the state government would also take a decision about the fees for the registration of social forestry-based wood industry and for seeking license by the remaining wood based industry.
 
