JALANDHAR: With maximum Punjabi victims among the 39 Indians killed in Iraq, the desperation among Punjabi youth to go abroad for the sake of employment - even to strife-torn destinations - has once again come under focus. 

 While several young men from the state have lost their lives on way to greener pastures and many others have been cheated by illegal human traffickers, the desperation to find work has made them averse to the risk involved while working in unsafe zones.
 
  of Nauli village, around 12 km from  , had returned from   after being injured in a blast in the camp of the company where he was working but it did not deter other men from the village from going there. Recently, four youths, who had gone there a couple of years ago, have returned after taking a break.
 
 "At one point of time there were around 15-16 men from our village who had gone there. I went there in 2011 but returned after getting injured in a blast. A co-worker was very seriously injured. After having a narrowly escaped, I decided to return," said Sharanjeet, while speaking to TOI on Wednesday.
 
 "When I was working in the camp of a Turkish company, 80% of the 5,000 Indian workers were Punjabis. The salary was a few times more than what I could earn here and the company was also making all arrangements for security and comfortable living. However, one day I was injured after an explosive shell fell near the place. "Then after the treatment, I decided to return. However, this has not stopped others from going there. Even when there are enough security arrangements, an element of risk remains and it is due to this reason salaries are high and people from our village and other parts of the state went there," he said.
 
 Interestingly among the four youths of his village in Afghansitan, two are his immediate neighbours. All are from the Scheduled caste families.   from the same village had first gone to Iraq and then to Afghanistan. In fact he went to Iraq in 2006 even as it was already unsafe. 
 
 "Risk was higher in Iraq as compared to Afghanistan where I went in 2010. I preferred to work amid risk in Iraq for two years because I knew once I returned I would not be able to go there again," he said.
 
 "Though some risk was there in Afghanistan as well despite the Swiss company I worked as a driver with having made elaborate security arrangements with the help of security forces, salary outweighed the risk factor. Remittances back home were even touching Rs one lakh per month and after earning enough, I returned in 2012 and started a small cloth showroom in Adampur town. That hasn't worked and now I am working in a private company," he revealed. It was Pardeep's 'success' in Afghanistan that inspired others in the village to take the plunge.
 
 
