Vadodara: Four residents of Bangladesh were arrested on Saturday near Panchmukhi Hanuman Temple on Vasna Road and their one accomplice declared wanted by police for cheating an autorickshaw driver a day earlier at Tandalja. The gang that made several visits to India in the past couple of months on visitor visa has conned several people in other cities too. Mohammed Musaraf Leskor Mutbar, Aslam Nuruddin Akaun, Rony Sohrab Munshi and Nurajmal Mahammed Joinal Mullah, who have been arrested, and Sikandar, who is on the run, were approached by autorickshaw driver Abbas Ali Saiyed for a ride on February 22. While they did not take the ride, they showed him a wad of notes hidden in a cloth and said that they had Saudi Riyals and would like to convert at a lower rate. Saiyed told them that he was interested in exchange of currency. Next day morning Saiyed called Sikandar and as per the plan, he was asked to come near Basil School in Tandalja with Rs15,000 cash. On reaching there, they showed him the edge of same wad tied in a piece of cloth. Police said they took Indian currency from him and gave the tied cloth asking him to open only after they had left the place. After the accused left, when Saiyed opened the cloth he found only three notes of Saudi Riyal 100 and remaining were blank papers of the same size. Saiyed then approached police at JP Road police station where an FIR of cheating was registered against the accused. On the basis of the complaint, the prevention of crime branch (PCB) of city police started investigations and on receiving information about the four, nabbed them from Vasna Road. The police seized their passports, mobile phones and Rs27,000 cash besides Saudi Riyals, US Dollars and Bangladeshi Taka and 36 sim cards. Interestingly, the cops found the accused also carried an Aadhaar card and PAN card in the name of Sikandar. Police sources said the address given in the Aadhaar card is of Thane in Mumbai where the police are expected to soon reach to conduct investigations. Cops have not ruled out involvement of an Indian in helping the gang. During initial interrogation, they admitted that they have conned many citizens in Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru and Surat.