After playing gully cricket or at a local level, some of the aspiring cricketers of   are all geared up to exhibit their skills on a national platform as the season 3 of Uttarakhand-Uttar Pradesh Cricket Championship League 2018 is about to kick off from March 25 to 31. This is the first time that the tournament will be held in Bareilly. Apart from the city, matches will also be held in Dehradun, Haridwar and Haldwani. Players from the city tell us that the league, which is based on the IPL format, is a stepping stone to global recognition. The players, ‘Bareilly Panthers’ (as the team has been named), talk about how tournaments like these help in providing a bigger platform to local talent, and help them exhibit their skills before a bigger audience.

  
  Shivam Patel, a resident of Krishnanagar, practising on field
 
 
 
 Ankit Singh, 19, a student of class XII and an aspiring cricketer who idolises  , feels that the tournament will be a great platfom for budding players like him. Ankit, a resident of Meerganj, says, "I wish to pursue a career in cricket and a tournament like this helps in opening doors of opportunity for players from small towns, like me. So far, I have played cricket only at a local level, like street and gully cricket, but playing in a league is something big. It is a wider platform and a not-to-be-missed opportunity. I am looking forward to the training part which will be held in Haridwar and Bareilly, where we will learn more about batting, bowling and fielding."
 
 Abhash Singh, 21, a resident of Meerganj, says, "I have been playing cricket for past four-five years at the district level but this is a big opportunity to exhibit and hone our skills at a bigger platform. Bareilly doesn’t offer many facilities to pursue cricket as a career, neither do we have big matches in the city, so this tournament will provide us with an opportunity to get trained by experts from   and  , and our talent can be acknowledged."
  
  Bareilly cricketer Vinayak Shukla in action 
 
 
 
 
 Ravi Gangwar, 19, a resident of Izzatnagar and BTech student, says, "I am a great fan of Virat Kohli and Zaheer Khan and aspire to become an all-rounder; this tournament is one big opportunity for me to exhibit my cricketing skills and talent in front of large audience. Also, these matches will be aired live on television, which helps in getting noticed and we might get a chance to represent India for other tournaments on a wider platform."
 Shivam Patel, 20, a resident of Krishnanagar, who also played in the last season of UK-UPCCL Championship, says, "On the basis of my performance in the last season as a bowler, I was chosen to play for Jaipur Corporate League last year, which was an enriching learning experience."
 
  
  
 
 
 Nikit Rastogi, 15, a student of class XI and resident of Brahmpura, says, "I am a medium pace bowler and have played several matches at the district level. This tournament is an ideal platform for players like me, as we will be attending a camp in Uttarakhand that has ample opportunities than Bareilly. Moreover, based on our talent and skills, we will get financial benefits from sponsors and team heads, who will bid and select us for their teams."
 
  
  (L-R): Shivam Patel, Vinayak Shukla, Abhash and Nikit practising at Sports Stadium Bareilly 
 
 
 
 Vikas Kumar, 19, a resident of Durganagar Colony, says, "I have always played cricket in gullies and on roads and never joined any academy, and this is for the first time, I will be exhibiting my skills on such a platform. I am excited as it will help me understand where do I actually stand and where do I need to improve. This tournament will be a reality check for me. This league will pave way for a better future of professional cricket in India."
  
  
 
 
 Vinayak Shukla, 19, another player from Meerganj, who had also played in the last season of the championship as the captain of Haridwar Heroes team, says, "Bareilly doesn’t have many facilities for cricket; even the coaches are not so regular here. Through this tournament, we will get a chance to gel with players from other states and enhance our skill."
 
  
  
 
 
 Rishabh Saxena, 17, a resident of Durganagar, says, "Along with showcasing our cricketing skills, we will also experience some entertainment, as the league promises to be a blend of cricket, entertainment and glamour. Celebrities like  ,   and   are some of the star attractions of the league, which is another opportunity for us to meet them and play in their presence. Besides, we will also get a chance to witness dance performances and laughter shows, among other activities during the tournament."
 
  
  
  
 
 
