AHMEDABAD: A crisis in the Gujarat BJP government was defused after deputy chief minister   was assigned the finance department along with five other portfolios on Sunday. 
  on Sunday. 

 Nitin Patel had refused to assume charge after taking oath on December 28 to show his displeasure at being divested of finance and urban development portfolios, which he had held in the previous   cabinet. The crisis ebbed after BJP national president   called Nitin Patel at 7:30am on Sunday and assured him of portfolio allocation in line with his “demand”, which “kept his respect intact” and safeguarded his Number Two position in the government. “Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has already informed the governor of the new allotment,” Nitin Patel told reporters in Gandhinagar.
 
 The finance department had earlier been given to Saurabh Patel. Now,   is the only minister in the cabinet with just one department — which is energy. 
 
 
 
 
 The crisis had become fodder for Patidar groups which stood behind Nitin Patel and even threatened a bandh in Mehsana on Monday to show solidarity with him. However, on Sunday, Nitin Patel said he was a party loyalist and insisted that he had never demanded ministerial portfolios.
 
 “As the deputy CM in the previous government, I had requested my party to assign me responsibilities that befit my post and protect my dignity. So, I thank my party for accepting my request,” he said. He thanked Prime Minister  , Shah, the Patel community, and leaders “who showed solidarity”.
 
 Rupani said, “Considering Nitinbhai’s demands our party has decided to allocate the finance department to him. I have formally informed the governor. There will be no change in his present portfolios.” 
 
 Rupani went on to say: “Over the past two days, our opponents have tried to paint a grim picture about our government, which did not reflect reality. All issues have been settled. Nitinbhai formally took charge and went to Mehsana to meet his supporters.” Earlier in the day, Nitin Patel had spoken to Modi, BJP leader V Satish, Gujarat ministers Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, Kaushik Patel and Pradipsinh Jadeja, and RSS emissaries Chintan Upadhyay and Hasmukh Patel.
 
 
