NEW DELHI: The   department has become the latest casualty of the war between the AAP government and the bureaucracy. 

 It is learnt that chief minister   is agitated over the alleged delay on the part of the finance department to submit Delhi government's views on the 15th Finance   ministry of home affairs. The government wanted its views to be communicated to   by April 10, sources said.
 
 However, the finance department sees no delay on its part. Sources said that the government view has been put forth through letters to MHA several times and it remains unchanged.
 
 Delhi government has time and again sought a greater share in central taxes on the lines of other states. Sources in the CM's office said that the stand of Delhi government is that Delhi's share in central taxes has been frozen since 2001 at Rs 325 crore. This is completely unjustified and the capital deserves at least Rs 7,500 crore from central taxes.
 
 "Further, municipalities in Delhi are entitled to at least Rs 1,000 crore per year (Rs 488 per person). This money will be straightaway transferred to the corporations to resolve their financial crisis," sources added, sharing the views of the elected government.
 
 The matter has turned controversial with the elected government alleging that the finance department failed to meet the deadline. The finance secretary allegedly sent the draft response to the CM merely three days ago. Moreover, sources said that the CM was not satisfied with the response since it did not reflect the views of Delhi government properly.
 
 Sources added that the CM wanted the principal secretary (finance) to discuss the response with him, but there has been no reply from the official concerned so far. Finance department sources, however, said that   returned the file seeking a discussion. Finance secretary S N Sahai will soon be meeting him to discuss the matter.
 
 The political brass has attacked the bureaucracy alleging this case to be yet another example of "sponsored non-cooperation by IAS officers." 
 
 They also allege that the ongoing boycott of direct interaction with the elected government is critically affecting its functioning. They further alleged that the LG is supporting the non-cooperation by officials.
 
 
