PATNA: The state   on Monday approved the investment of Rs1,046 crore in various schemes, including Rs85.85 crore for the construction and completion of storm water drainage project from Beur Mor to Mithapur Bus Stand in Patna. It was also decided to hold the budget session from February 26 to April 4.

 The drainage project involves investment of Rs48.94 crore on the construction work and Rs36.91 crore will be paid to consultancy firm WAPCOS, which has been selected for three years under its   (PDMC) component.
 
 The government also cleared the investment of Rs782.55 crore for urban development works in 13 towns as part of the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The Patna drainage project is also a part of the AMRUT scheme. The 13 other towns covered under the scheme are Hajipur, Bagaha, Motihari, Siwan, Ara, Begusarai, Kishanganj, Katihar, Buxar, Sasaram, Chhapra, Jehanabad and Biharsharif.
 
 The payment of Rs30.42 crore to   and Kishanganj districts was also approved for 2017-18 through panchayati raj department, as allotted from the funds made available by the fifth state finance commission.
 
 The cabinet sanctioned Rs98.72 crore for preparing the detailed project report for the construction and development of cultural centre at   under the Swadesh Darshan Yojana of the culture department. The amount is part of the Rs145.14 crore that has been given technical sanction for the project.
 
 The government will pay Rs43.66 crore to the Bengaluru-based consultancy firm Flying Elephant for the construction of the proposed Dr A P J Abdul Kalam Science City at Patna. The firm will provide inputs on its architecture, content and exhibit designs as well as project management.
 
 The cabinet gave its nod to the grant of state guarantee to the raising of Rs500 crore from   for payment of loan to Bihar State Cooperative Bank for paddy procurement. The proposal to pay special allowance to special task force was also cleared at the cabinet meeting.
 
 
