SHIMLA: The first snowfall of the season on Tuesday might have come as a surprise for many, but the weather scientists are not surprised at all with the dry spell that lasted for almost two months since the beginning of the winter.

 They said   has taken a toll on winter precipitation (which causes rain and snow) in the recent years.
 
 Dr  , professor of geomorphology at Jawahar Lal Nehru University (JNU), Delhi, said rain and snow received on Tuesday was the first spell of westerlies (winds blowing from the west). He said this time westerlies have remained very weak for some unknown reasons, but in the coming days substantial precipitation would occur in the state.
 
 An old study on ‘Winter frequency of western disturbances and precipitation indices over  , India: 1977-2007’ conducted by Naresh Kumar, B P Yadav and   of Indian Meteorological Department and Shilpa Gahlot of IIT Delhi had revealed decreasing trend of around 13% in winter precipitation from its mean from 1977 to 2007 in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 The study had said total winter precipitation and precipitation indices are greater at higher altitudes as compared to lower altitudes. The mean frequency of winter western disturbances that caused precipitation over Himachal Pradesh is 12, with a highest monthly frequency (four) during February and March. This study shows a significant decreasing trend in the frequency of western disturbances over Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Dr J C Kuniyal, senior scientist at GB Pant Institute of Himalayan Environment and Development, Himachal unit at  , said the decreasing trend of rain and snow in winter is a matter of concern and is directly related to climate change impact.
 
 He said Kullu valley alone has become warmer by 0.9°C on an average between 1965 and 1998. He said in 1965, the apple belt was found at a height of 1,000m above sea level, but now the belt has shifted to 2,000m above sea level.
 
 A climate modeling draft report –– prepared by Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI), South Korea and TERI in association with Himachal Pradesh department of environment, science and technology –– has revealed seasonal rainfall for summer has increased 0.31mm per year between 1901 and 2013, but the winter, monsoon and post-monsoon seasons show a decreasing trend of rainfall by -0.18mm, -2.85 mm and -0.21mm per year, respectively.
 
 
