CHENNAI: The district sessions court in Ernakulam,  , has asked an orphanage in Aluva to transfer 104 children it houses from other states, including 50 from Tamil Nadu, after it failed to furnish documents required.

 In an order dated April 4, the additional judge directed Janaseva Sisu Bhavvan to transfer all the children from the home within a month from the date of the order after producing them before the child welfare committees of the respective districts.
 
 The home has also been asked to prepare a list containing the name, age, home state and other identifying details of the children and hand it over to the CWCs, which will verify the same and pass necessary orders.
 
 The judge directed the children be transferred, with the help of the child protection units of the respective districts, before the commencement of the academic year.
 
 In January 2017, Change-India, an advocacy group in Chennai, undertook an investigation in the home following allegations that some of the children were trafficked from Tamil Nadu. In a report they submitted to the Tamil Nadu and Kerala governments last year, the organisation alleged that besides illegally procuring children,   also misappropriated funds in the guise of a charity. The institution runs two homes — one each for boys and girls — with 165 children.
 
 While the Tamil Nadu government remained mute, CWC, Ernakulam, asked the home to produce documents about the children’s origin.
 
 Padmaja Nair, CWC, chairperson, Ernakulam, said although the orphanage was registered, most of the children there didn’t have documents to show how they arrived there.
 
 “They had a register with a contact person against each name. Only two numbers worked,” said Nair. She said the registers showed that 50 children are from Tamil Nadu, 16 from Chennai. Most of them had been staying in the home for more than 10 years. CWC directed the home to trace the biological parents of the children and produce them.
 
 “We also tried to contact CWC, Chennai, but got no response,” said Nair. Meanwhile, the proprietor of the home,  , approached the Ernakulam district court.
 
 More than a year later, following the court directive, the CWC in Ernakulam tried reaching out to the Department of Social Defence in Tamil Nadu. “We’ve been directed from one official to another. We can’t do this alone. We need the Tamil Nadu government’s help to trace these children’s families,” said Nair.
 
 A Narayanan of Change-India said he had written to the Tamil Nadu government to intervene and help the children, most of whom have completely lost contact with their families. “Tamil Nadu should ensure systematic rehabilitation of the children, continuation of their education in   and identification of their biological parents and reunion wherever possible,” he said.
 
 A senior official in the Tamil Nadu social welfare department said he would look into the matter. “We will see what the best interest of the children is before taking any step,” he said.
 
