VIZIANAGARM: The   district   is now completely powered by solar energy, making it the first collectorate in   to have made this switch. It invested over Rs 93 lakhs to make this change. This move will help the collectorate cut down about 110 metric tonnes of green house gas emissions every year. 

 District collector   said, “ Vizianagaram’s initiative will now serve as a model to various government offices not just in the district, but also the state. We are proud to be the first collectorate in the entire state to change over to renewable source of energy.”
 
 The collector further added that 160 KWC solar panels would help generate 19,200 units of energy, which will help them save Rs 3,00,000 every month ( 18,900 units of consumption). He revealed that the project received Rs 17 lakhs in subsidy from the state government and, he hopes that the cost will be recovered in six years’ time.
 
 Meanwhile, the district collector has urged medical and women and child welfare authorities to ensure that women’s and children’s health is given top priority. The collector suggested that they must aim for 100% hospital deliveries and added that areas where infants are either born underweight or malnourished must be identified.
 
 He further directed officials to draw up a plan of action to ensure that there is no malnutrition in the district. The collector also urged the department heads to coordinate with other departments such as the horticulture, animal husbandry and the agriculture to come up with a foolproof plan on dealing with malnutrition in the district.
 
 He also asked department heads to focus on sanitation issues in rural areas of the district to prevent out break of diseases.
 
 Given that health is high on the district collector’s agenda, additional superintendant of Vizianagaram, A Venkata Raman inaugurated a three-day health management course for police personnel in Vizianagaram on Tuesday. He said that the course aims at personnel taking care of their health and well-being in a scientific manner.
 
 Venkata Raman further added, that most police personnel have a tendency to ignore their health and well-being as a result of their work schedule. Pointing out that this course would not only help them understand the need to safeguard their health, but also their professional and private lives, Venkata Raman noted, “ More than anything else, this course teaches personnel, the importance and need to compartmentalise their personal, private and professional life.” The additional SP observed that the course aims at helping police personnel deal with stress and mental trauma to help them think clearly and act responsibly. He urged police personnel of the district to make the most of the three day programme and apply for the longer versions if they feel the need to.
 
 
