NEW DELHI: With 20  , the party’s government in Delhi is down from a formidable majority of 66 to 46 in a house of 70. This means all 20 MLAs cease to hold power from now on as legislators and are just   members. The notification is effective from January 20, and it is here that AAP faces its biggest challenge so far to keep its flock together. As the ruling party gets into battle mode to challenge the EC’s decision in court and simulatenously reach out to people, there will be a phase of uncertainty which will test the fault lines in the party. Much of AAP’s public posturing in the coming days will be linked to its assertions in court. It has made it clear that it will not give up and will go up to Supreme Court to seek relief.

 
  
  
 
 As things stand today, if the byelections happen anytime soon, these 20 MLAs are going to be the party’s best bet, sources said. Any attempt to field new faces at this stage may backfire. These MLAs have stood firm behind Kejriwal’s decision to appoint them as parliamentary secretaries and have never been seen doubting his intentions even as the decision has cost them their membership of the assembly. The crisis again puts the onus of steering the ship on the Delhi CM and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal’s shoulders. He chose to appoint some of his best MLAs as parliamentary secretaries through an administrative order in March 2015. These appointments were then cited as a step to improve adminsitration for enabling ministers to perform better. The parliamentary secretaries were to be the minister’s connect with the field.
 
 The reform could never be put to test as the issue landed in a legal tangle. Next time the assembly is convened, it will be AAP’s 46 pitched against BJP’s four and, hence, a less strident voice than earlier. The ruling side is also saddled with black horses. Technically, they are AAP MLAs but a thorn in the flesh like Kapil Mishra (Karawal Nagar) and Devendra Sehrawat (Bijwasan). While Sehrawat took on the ruling party in 2016, Mishra embarassed the party and shocked the city with his allegations of corruption, particularly targeting CM Arvind Kejriwal and his minister, Satyendar Jain. AAP was quick to suspend the two from party but let them remain MLAs. 
 
 There are others like Jitender Singh Tomar (Tri Nagar), Asim Ahmed Khan (Matia Mahal) and Sandeep Kumar (Sultanpuri) who continue as MLAs and AAP members but carry the tag of “sacked ministers.” All three were unceremoniously ousted by the ruling dispensation. Timarpur   Pankaj Pushkar has been seen as an AAP MLA once very critical of AAP’s policies and is considered close to Swaraj Abhiyan founder, Yogendra Yadav. His hot and cold equation makes his stand out as a man the party chooses to address with caution.
 
 Meanwhile, AAP founder Kumar Vishwas is also waving the red flag on many issues from time to time, making no bones about the fact that short of burning bridges with the party leadership, he will keep speaking his mind. His show of strength has become his way of countering Kejriwal’s position as the face of AAP. On Saturday, he had said that he was “personally hurt” to see that the “very able 20 MLA have to face this crisis.” Vishwas made it clear that when the decisions on cabinet formation and appointment of parliamentary secretaries were being taken, his attempts to give his opinion were disregarded. “I was told very clearly by the CM that taking a decision on these matters was the prerogative of the CM and I should not give my views,” he said. He had reiterated that trouble is bound to happen if “neta” becomes bigger than the party. 
 
 
