RAJKOT: While the central and state governments are taking credit for setting up Gujarat’s second Ro-Ro ferry service from Victor Port at   in Amreli to Hazira in Surat, the locals villagers in Rajula are opposing the project, alleging threat to agriculture and fishing industry. 

 The trial run of the ferry service operated by Om Sai Navigation Private Limited is expected to begin by the end of January, while the commercial services is likely to begin from February. 
 
 In a representation to Amreli district collector, the villagers have alleged that Om Sai Navigation Private Limited has destroyed mangroves in large numbers, which has led to sea water entering their fertile agriculture land during high tide. Fishermen have expressed fear of losing livelihood because of the ferry service.
 
 The villagers further alleged that cutting of mangroves has affected habitat of Asiatic lions and is likely to erode their fertile land. 
 
 A local resident of Rajula Ajay Shiyal said, “Presently, during high tide, sea water reaches near the villages between Pipavav and Victor Port. And for the Ro-Ro ferry service, mangroves are already been removed by the service provider. We fear that further dredging of sea will lead to more destruction.” 
 
 Pipavav village panchayat has also opposed the Ro-Ro ferry service and alleging that they have been kept in the dark during the project allotment process. 
 
 “They (government) did not take panchayat’s permission before finalising the project. They even completed the public hearing in a couple of hours. Moreover, panchayat members were not invited for the hearing and those opposing the project were not heard during the hearing,” alleged Pipavav village sarpanch Bhanabhai Gujarariya.
 
 An activist of voluntary organization Kanuni Sahay Kendra Arvind Khuman said, “This project will prove end traditional fishing business. Local fishermen here don’t have a big net or boat so they can’t go deep in to sea for fishing.” 
 
 However, chairman and managing director of Ro-Ro ferry service provider Ashwin Banker said, “There are some activists in the area who are making allegations. We completed hearing as per the rules and received consent to establish the ferry service from the Union ministry of environment and forests. We did not cut a single mangrove. Those mangroves being cut were by those who are creating pond for fishing.” 
 
 Amreli collector   confirmed that his officer had received representation over cutting of mangroves. “We will inquire and take action against responsible persons.” Regarding opposition to the ferry service, Amrani said, “We have given a full hearing to villagers and we did not receive any complaint, but if Pipavav panchayat and other villagers have grievance, we will try to sort it out.” 
 
 
