Kolkata: To watch or not to watch ‘Padmaavat’? If that’s the question, the state BJP leadership had no clear answer to it on Wednesday.

 With Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s period film releasing in Bengal multiplexes on Wednesday evening, BJP leaders and their sympathisers were divided over their stand in the contentious issue. While Union minister Babul Supriyo, Rajya Sabha MP Roopa Ganguly and BJP leader Locket Chatterjee had no reservations about watching it, BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha and state BJP vice-president Subhas Sarkar decided to stay away. 
 
 Ganguly hasn’t watched any movie in a theatre in the past five years and the “whole quarrel” hasn’t generated any “inquisitiveness” in her to watch the movie. “But I have no reservations. If I get time, I will watch it. I detest these violent protests. The CBFC has cleared it and there is no reason why anyone should raise questions. Immediate police action should be taken against the protestors. Their political ideology is unimportant to me,” Ganguly said.
 
 According to Supriyo, the CBFC decision should hold and here it is also backed by Supreme Court. “Since India is a country with complex situations, we will have to wait and see. Everything said and done, no one has the right or will be allowed to resort to violence,” he said
 
 Meanwhile, Suraj Sharma, district president of Bajrang Dal which had earlier protested at Purulia, is going easy on the protests. Vishva Hindu Parishad’s Kolkata secretary Sachindranath Singha, who had organised a protest in front of Navina on November 19, is now on the backfoot. “We are not going in for any protest. Bajrang Dal has also been asked not to do so,” Singha said. He is ready to watch the film since it has generated so much of “controversy”.
 
 Chatterjee is against giving importance to Karni Sena protests. “Both Bhansali and Karni Sena engaged in this controversy to get publicity. I will watch ‘Padmavaat’ just the way I watch other movies,” Chatterjee said. Sinha, who doesn’t watch any movies, will not make any exception for ‘Padmavaat’. “There is no question of watching it. While no one can question the Supreme Court verdict, it is also important to respect the sentiments of people,” Sinha said.
 
 Subhas Sarkar has also decided to give the Bhansali film a miss. “I don’t support the violent protests by Karni Sena. I’m not challenging the Supreme Court. But, I know there has been a conspiracy to distort true Indian history. If Bhansali was so perfect why he did have the Ghoomar dance in the first place? Had there been no protests, the film would have retained it. This approach is unacceptable,” Sarkar said. 
 
 Shankar Baksh Singh, general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Khatriya Samaj, will not only boycott the film but also engage in negative word-of-mouth publicity. “But, we will not demonstrate,” Singh said.
 
 
