PUDUCHERRY: A 66-year-old French citizen was arrested on Wednesday on charges of sexually abusing a   girl from   in the Union territory of Puducherry.

 The arrested has been identified as Thierry  , director of an NGO, ‘Hopigo & Missions Humanitaaires’, which arranges funds for orphanages in India from various funding agencies worldwide.
 
 Child welfare committee chairperson Vidyaa Ramkumar said the committee received a complaint that a minor girl had been sexually abused by a French citizen at his residential apartment in the town limits. The committee swung into action and deputed a team to probe the complaint.
 
 Initial inquiries revealed that Gagner during a visit to Odisha a few years ago found a woman and her four minor daughters reeling under poverty. He promised to help the family and brought the woman and her daughters to Puducherry. Gagner employed the woman as a domestic maid and admitted all the girls to a school. He reportedly has been sexually abusing the eldest daughter, 12, of the woman whenever she was alone at his apartment. 
 
 Vidyaa said Gagner gave contradictory replies during the inquiries. He claimed to be a cardiologist but later said he specialises in arranging medical tourism packages and holding medical camps in rural parts of the country. He also claimed that his NGO arranges funds for various orphanages in the country from several funding agencies worldwide.
 
 Gagner maintained that he had adopted the eldest daughter of the woman. He denied charges of   against him arguing that it is a case of ‘cultural conflict’ as it is a common social gesture between individuals to express friendship or family relationship in the European countries by cheek-kissing. Such a custom is seen as sexual abuse in the Indian context, he argued.
 
 However, the woman denied that she gave her daughter for adoption to Gagner.
 
 CWC lodged a complaint with Lawspet police, who booked Gagner under Section 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) and arrested him after fulfilling the formalities at the French consulate.
 
 Police produced him before a special court, which remanded him in judicial custody. If convicted, the French citizen shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend up to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.
 
 The committee sent the minor girl for medical examination to   women and children hospital to ascertain whether Gagner indulged in penetrative sexual activities so as to invoke appropriate and relevant sections of the Pocso Act to ensure maximum punishment for the French citizen, if found guilty.
 
 
