AURANGABAD: District collector Naval  , who has been given charge of the   ( ), has come up with a plan of processing the existing garbage instead of dumping it. 

 He got the charge of civic body on Friday after former civic chief   was shunted to Marathwada Statutory Board amidst allegations of failing to resolve city's garbage issue.
 
 Soon after taking charge, Naval Kishore called a meeting of sanitary staff of the civic body and asked them to take corrective measures at the ground level without waiting from his personal approval.
 
 On Saturday, he along with his team inspected several areas in the city and also had personal interactions with people opposing the idea of processing the garbage in their vicinity. Naval Kishore managed to convince people at four locations.
 
 After inspecting different areas of the city, he found that the situation is bad in zone number one, two and three as the process of segregating dry waste from wet garbage, was never introduced in these areas.
 
 As a solution to the dry waste, the civic body is now planning to rope in private parties and NGOs for the task. He said, "Dumping is no more an idea for us. The crisis is easy to overcome but there is a serious communication gap. We are going to process the garbage at about 105 sites in the city and all we need is people's cooperation."
 
 Ruling out the option of using force or initiating action against the people opposing the idea, he said that for all those having problem will be convinced through dialogue and personal interaction.
 
 The collector has already initiated a move to neutralise the garbage that lay on the roadsides by spraying effective solution on them for preventing spread of epidemic. My first priority is the health of citizens, followed by lifting of garbage and third is the processing of this garbage.
 
 On a daily basis, the city generates about 430 tonne of garbage and now for almost a month, the civic body has been able to lift only a portion of it. Due to the current issue, over 1,850 tonne of garbage is laying on the city streets, making the city vulnerable to diseases.
 
 When asked about the people fearing about their health due to processing of garbage at the plots and open spaces in their vicinity, Naval Kishore said, "As an individual, as acting civic body chief and as well as district collector, people's health will be my responsibility."
 
 He added, "We are moving ahead from the age-old, unscientific and irrational method of dumping the garbage. As on date there are 57 pits in the limits of civic body and a good amount of wet garbage is being processed."
 
 The young IAS officer claimed that as on date the civic body has over 1,000 metric tonne of compost, which could be sold. Meanwhile, the civic body staffers appealed the citizens to segregate wet and dry waste before handing it over to the sanitation staffers in the morning. 
 
 
