NEW DELHI: Get ready for   snarls on   as the public works department (PWD) is going to close the   for repair from Sunday. The traffic will be diverted to close the stretch between   and   in the first phase.

 Senior PWD engineers, who are overseeing the project, said only one side of the two-lane bridge would be closed at one time to execute the repair work. “We have to carry out carpeting of the road and it cannot be done without restricting traffic. We will try to finish the work before the deadline,” an engineer from the east zone said. 
 
 The work will be carried out in three phases, each lasting three months. “In the first phase, the repair of the cantilever portion, including pavements and cycle track from the Khajuri side to Civil Lines, will be done,” an official said. The entry of heavy vehicles like trucks and buses will be banned on the Wazirabad-Yamuna bridge till the completion of the repair work.
 
 During the first phase, light motor vehicles going from Khajuri towards Wazirabad have been advised to use the newly constructed pontoon bridge and vehicles coming from the other side can use the open carriageway of the Wazirabad-Yamuna bridge, said a senior traffic police officer.
 
 The old Wazirabad bridge serves as an arterial lifeline for lakhs of people living in northeast Delhi and caters to more than two lakh vehicles every day. Residents of areas like Yamuna Vihar, Bhajanpura, Karawal Nagar, Gokulpuri and Nand Nagari regularly use the bridge to cross the Yamuna river. Signature Bridge, with the original deadline of December 2013, was meant to take away this traffic load but the project still lies incomplete. 
 
 The traffic police has asked people moving from the Ghaziabad side to follow other routes. The heavy vehicles going towards Haryana can use the Loni-Baghpat route, said an officer. Those heading to Delhi may take the Mohan Nagar-Link Road (Vaishali) route on National Highway-24 to enter the city as the Shahdara flyover is also undergoing repair, an advisory said. 
 
 Commuters are requested to plan their journey in advance as traffic will be heavy on Wazirabad Road, Yamuna Pusta Road and nearby Outer Ring Road, said a police officer.
 
 
