PATNA: The state tourism department will soon complete the development work at a number of Buddhist tourist destinations in Gaya and East Champaran districts.

 According to sources, the development work at Patharkatti village in Gaya is in the final stages. The state government had released funds to the tune of Rs 5 crore in 2014-15 under its Destination Development Scheme to set up tourist cottages and a tourist haat along with an open-air theatre in the village. The new amenities will be maintained by Patna- based Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan.
 
 The Sansthan’s official website says, “The Pattharkatti region of Atri in Gaya is one of the major centres of stone craft in Bihar… The tradition of the stone craft of   dates back to the ancient eras and it had reached its zenith during the Mauryan period as the dynasty was characterised by its craftsmanship.”
 
 Funds to the tune of Rs 3.06 crore were also allotted in the year 2014-15 to develop tourist facilities at   at  . 
 
 Pragbodhi is situated to the northeast of Bodh Gaya. The famous Dungeshwari temple lies nestled in the hills, where Lord Buddha is believed to have meditated for six years before he went to Bodh Gaya where he finally attained enlightenment. A golden skeletal image of Buddha is enshrined in the cave here. The black rocks of the cave have images of Buddha engraved on them. A newer cave holds another six-feet-tall Buddha statue.
 
 The tourism department is also renovating a pond in front of Vietnamese monastery at Bodh Gaya, for which funds to the tune of Rs 3.04 crore were released in 2014-15. The development plan includes excavation and de-watering of the pond and four meditation huts, among other amenities.
 
 Funds to the tune of Rs 2.83 crore were also allocated in 2014-15 to develop Sujata Stupa at Bakrour village in Bodh Gaya. The site is traditionally known by names such as Sujata Kuti or Sujata Quila. The development plan includes a cafeteria, public conveniences, kiosks and a park along with landscaping. 
 
 Mocharin Tank, another Buddhist destination in Bodh Gaya, is also being developed utilizing funds to the tune of Rs 6.62 crore. 
 
 
