With the automotive industry back to clocking top gear sales, vehicle makers, component manufacturers and retail service centres are back to boom time hiring. One of the largest employers in India’s organised sector, the auto industry offers good opportunity for mechanical engineering graduates to take up critical jobs in the assembly line and dealership service centres.

 
 With more and more telematics and electronics employed in automotive products, the next-gen focus in this sector is shifting to artificial intelligence (AI) and data analytics. Cars, trucks and buses are now increasingly driven by intelligent telematics technology, and big auto across the world is focussing on driverless cars, connected cars and, of course, electric mobility. As a result,   and big data are being touted as Motown’s holy grail in the next four to seven years.
 
 Rajeev Dubey, group president, HR and corporate services, Mahindra & Mahindra, says: “AI and data analytics are the new factors of production which will help auto companies to understand and create better consumer and employee experience, better productivity and quality in the supply chain. The industry will require critical cutting edge skills to write the algorithms and reskill its existing force to suit this new environment. There is already a huge demand for such people and this is a very important segment which will transform the way we do business.”
 
 What this means is that engineering colleges will need to upgrade their curriculum to cater to this new demand. Already top automobile companies are working with select campuses to tweak and update their curriculum and offer access to current shopfloor and R&D technology. Companies like M&M, Toyota Kirloskar Motor and others routinely work with a select group of colleges to upskill their engineering graduates. Others like Hyundai Motor India have a shortlist of colleges from across India from where they hire, including Madras Institute of Technology, Chromepet campus, Vellore Institute of Technology, SASTRA of Thanjavur, SRM and PSG College of Technology,Coimbatore.
 
 Stephen Sudhakar, senior VP, HR and GS, Hyundai Motor India, says: “Indians are good at certain skill capabilities like die maintenance as well as manufacturing engineering. So if you have those skills, you often get to work in other Hyundai plants in the world on a project basis.’’ Auto companies’ involvement with academia to upscale skills includes interface at various levels. Take Toyota. The company runs Toyota Technical Training Institute which offers a threeyear full-time training in – automobile assembly, automobile paint, automobile weld and mechatronics – to poor students. It also runs Toyota Technical Education Program in partnership with industrial and technical training institutes to impart training – general repair, automotive body repair and automotive paint repair – for technical workforce in workshops and dealerships. But its most interesting partnership is with select engineering colleges where Toyota will set up centre of excellence to demonstrate future technology and collaborate with the academic council to add Toyota’s unique traits in the curriculum.
 
