KOCHI: Even as the alleged custodial death of   S R has snowballed into a major controversy, it has become clear that his arrest itself was unlawful as the actions of the cops were contradictory to the procedures laid down by the Criminal Procedure Code. 

 
  
  
 
 Though the provision to use 'reasonable force' does exist while facing resistance from the arrested, the Varapuzha incident brings into focus again the draconian methods followed by the police. 
 
 Several procedures were overlooked leading to Sreejith's death. Even if reasonable force was used while Sreejith resisted arrest, the cops were supposed to take him to a hospital and not to a police station to give him immediate medical care, which he was entitled to, according to the law.
 
 Sreejith, according to sources, has been complaining of stomach ache soon after he was manhandled and bundled into a police vehicle. It was after a night that he received the first medical care, that too only to lessen pain.
 
 In case the cops used force after he resisted arrest, then the police officer should have registered an FIR for obstructing to discharge his duty, which also was not followed.
 
 As per the CrPC amendment Act of 2008 on Section 41, the arresting officer should "bear an accurate, visible and clear identification of his name which will facilitate easy identification." Ironically, Sreejith was arrested by a team of plainclothes officers. 
 
 Former DGP   said the law is very clear. "The protocol is very clearly laid down in the CrPC. All personnel should wear identification tags as per the law. If cops go in mufti and arrest people then they obviously have the right to resist," he said.
 
 State police chief   on Wednesday said he would be able to make a statement on what exactly happened to Sreejith only after receiving the report of the Special Investigation Team.
 
 However, he said police officers ideally should make an arrest after making proper preparations. He said they should apply their mind in deciding on the type of force that they use while facing resistance to arrest.
 
 "Every arrest is a mini-operation and proper preparations should be made. The area needs to be cordoned off and enough manpower must be deployed. However, resistance can vary and police would be forced to use force even after making such preparations," said the DGP.
 
 "The type of force that needs to be used against a common man and against hardened criminal needs to vary accordingly. A goonda may use a sword against an officer who comes to arrest him, such people cannot be arrested using 'gentle' methods," said the DGP.
 
 When asked about higher rates of incidents of violence happening during police arrests as opposed to arrests by agencies like the   and the   the DGP said arrests are optional for such agencies as they are not in charge of law and order.
 
 "If a culprit is a college lecturer then he can be summoned to the station and later arrested. It doesn't happen with the case of all accused. Other agencies can make easier arrests as most of them would be accused in white-collar crime. The NIA deals with terrorists hence they hardly face backlash in the state while effecting an arrest," the SPC said.
 
 Commenting on the death of Sreejith, the top cop said: "A man has died; the issue is very serious. Hence, a thorough investigation would take place."
 
 
