In the latest episode of  , Mihika asks the clairvoyant to do anything that can save her sister's life. She says they will have to perform a small pooja for Ishita. 

 Aliya feels hurt to see Adi and Roshni leaving together without informing her. Shagun sees Aliya disturbed and asks her to come along. 
 
 Simmi tries to ruin the pooja but Mihika stops her from blowing off the diya. Ruhi saves the diya and clairvoyant thanks her as she says it was important for the well being of Ishita. 
 
 Ishita refuses to go to the church but Raman and Shagun insist that she comes along with them. 
 
 Shagun, Raman and Aliya move forward towards the church but Ishita is unable to. Shagun is confused and forces Ishita to come along but the latter doesn't go inside the church and runs away. 
 
 Raman, Aliya and Shagun go looking for Ishita as she runs towards a graveyard. The three discover that Ishita is lying in the graveyard and Raman asks her to come along. 
 
 Ishita, who is under the possession of the spirit, refuses to move from the graveyard saying this is her home. It leaves Raman, Shagun worried and Ishita faints post that. 
 
 Back at Ishita's home, Ruhi says she is also worried about Ishita. Clairvoyant asks her to do charity by distributing 'black dal' among the poor people. Simmi says she will not let anybody save Ishita. 
 
 Adi and Roshni reach the same place where he had lost his bag. They keep looking for the deodorant bottle that had diamonds on it. Roshni asks Adi to lie to the smugglers and they will run away with Romi. 
 
 Roshni asks Adi to call the smugglers and asks them to meet at a busy marketplace in an hour. Shagun asks Raman if Ishita is actually possessed with Sonakshi's spirit. 
 
 Raman asks Aliya and Shagun to not discuss anything with Ishita. 
 
 Mihika and Adi distribute black dal but Simmi replaces it with black stones. Adi and Mihika are left shocked at this move of Simmi's. Simmi tells Ruhi she is the one who ruined their pooja in order to harm Ishita. 
 
 Elsewhere, Adi and Roshni are called to another location instead of the busy marketplace. Adi thanks Roshni for being by his side in the time of crisis. 
 
 Ishita along with Aliya, Shagun and Raman go sightseeing. Ishita wants to eat ice cream but Shagun stops her. Ishita forces everyone to go and eat ice cream with her. Ishita by mistake eats ice cream from the hands of Sonakshi's spirit. 
 
