NEW DELHI: Cyber Cell sleuths were a surprised lot after getting to know the links between master conman   and members of the cryptocurrency gang busted by them. Bhardwaj was arrested by Pune Police from Delhi airport earlier this month. He is accused of conning around 8,000 people of Rs 2,000 crore.

 Bhardwaj will soon be arrested and questioned by Delhi Police, sources told TOI. The mastermind of the cryptocurrency racket, Kamal Singh, had learnt the tricks of the trade from Bhardwaj and had initially invested in his firm.
 
 “During interrogation, Singh revealed that he was a realty agent, but when property rates went down a few years ago he took to selling   after getting influenced by Bhardwaj,” an officer said.
 
 Taking advantage of people’s ignorance about cryptocurrency, the gang allegedly duped   investors twice. Singh and Bhardwaj first duped people through gainbitcoin.com. When people began to ask for returns, Singh floated the second website, bits2btc.com, with his co-conspirator, Alagh.
 
 The complaint by a victim shows how the gang took advantage of people. “Kamal Singh approached me in January 2017 and showed his presentation on Bitcoin. He told me that the value of Bitcoin was increasing day-by-day and suggested that I purchase it as soon as possible. He then asked me to invest the purchased Bitcoins in his company to multiply returns by 1.8 times in 18 months,” said a victim in his police complaint.
 
 “After seeing his presentations, I purchased Bitcoins and handed it over to them. I was asked to create nine IDs to get payout in Bitcoin in my wallet every 15 days at the rate of 10% per month,” the victim added.
 
 The gang has around 5,000 emails and customer IDs saved on their website. These are being verified. Police have invoked Information Technology Act apart from IPC sections related to fraud and cheating.
 
 Additional DCP K P S Malhotra warned against falling for rackets involving cryptocurrency as it is not only illegal but unregulated and decentralised. Cyber Cell sleuths said that the coins are not only unsafe to invest in, but even the “authentic” ones have been showing a high rate of fluctuation. Also, RBI doesn’t recognise it as valid currency.
 
 
