BHOPAL: Delay in announcement of final semester results of under-graduate courses by the   (BU) has left students in a fix as online registration for admission in post-graduate (PG) courses started on Friday. The last date for online registration is June 14 while   is likely to take 15 days in announcing results.

 Students said that BU should have declared the results earlier as the delay might affect their career. “For past many years, BU has been struggling in declaring the results on time. Either BU should have declared the results earlier or the higher education department should have started online registration later,” said a student  .
 
 To help students deal with the situation, the department allowed them to take part in the admission process by presenting their fifth semester results. This decision also did not go down well with students as it will block the seat of a deserving candidate, if a student who presents fifth semester marksheet to get admission, fails in sixth semester.
 
 Students also alleged that the university was not giving them proper response on declaration of results. “We have been running from pillar to post, but no one is there to help us. BU officials told us that the results will be declared in 10-15 days. However, if results are not declared before online registration process ends, it will affect our career,” said  , a student.
 
 According to the schedule, verification of the documents will be carried out from June 2 to 15. Allotment of seats for the first round will be declared on June 20. The students, who get admission in the first round, can deposit fee from June 20 to 26.
 
 The second stage of online admission for PG courses will start from June 27 while third stage will start from July 11. Officials said students can take admission in second and third stages. However, students have rejected this argument saying that seats in all good colleges would be filled in the first allotment. “Why should I lose a good seat when I have not done anything wrong,” said a student.
 
 BUs registrar   did not respond despite several attempts.
 
