JAIPUR: The Congress on Thursday accused the   of deliberately not checking illegal bajri (sand)   to benefit certain individuals and protested on the issue inside and outside the assembly.

 The opposition party said, sand mining was continuing in the state despite a ban by the  , as few individuals in the government were ‘busy filling their pockets’ by shielding the mining mafia.
 
 Construction industry labourers suffering due to ban on sand mining and Congressmen led by party state president Sachin Pilot staged a dharna outside the assembly and asked the government what efforts it made to get the court ban lifted. Inside the House, the Congress members led by leader of Opposition   staged a walk out and boycotted the question hour when a listed question on illegal sand mining was suspended by speaker  .
 
 Chief minister Raje left the house when the opposition members were protesting against the government for getting the sand mining question suspended. Opposition members leveled serious charges against the government but speaker Meghwal expunged their remarks from the house records.
 
 Outside the house, Congress whip   told reporters, “Despite having 160 BJP members, why did the government run away instead of replying to our charges? It was because the government’s connivance with illegal miners has been exposed. A few individuals in the government are benefitting at the cost of exchequer.”
 
 At the dharna outside the assembly, Pilot said, “People now understand why the government is not making efforts to get the SC ban lifted. If there is legal mining, the government will earn royalty and there will be a check on the individuals busy filling their pockets through illegal mining.” Pilot said, “It is our direct charge on the government—it wants the court ban to continue so that illegal mining can go on and the influential can make money. It is a big scam.”
 
 The Congress leader said illegally mined bajri was available in the market at five to eight times the normal prices, thereby putting a burden on common man who wants to construct a house. “In her budget speech, the CM said sand mining lease will now be given for small size plots but she did not tell how it would be implemented. Even small size mining leases will require environment clearances,” Pilot said.
 
 Congress vice-president Archana Sharma said, “For the past fortnight, we have been going to chokhatis around the city where daily wage labourers assemble to seek work. The ban on sand mining has rendered them unemployed; the poor have been hit the most because the government has sided with illegal miners.”
 
 
