KOLKATA: The Shreevats Goswami-Vivek Singh show continues to plunder runs for Bengal as the duo once again played the lead role in the side's nine-wicket victory against Tripura in the Syed Mushtaq Ali East Zone T20 meet at the JSCA stadium in Ranchi on Sunday.

 
 Bengal's third win in as many matches not only helped them occupy the top of the points table (12 pts) but it also almost ensured them a berth in the all-India meet from the East Zone.
 
 Chasing 170 runs for victory, Goswami and Singh put up 138 runs, their third consecutive hundred-run stand, for the opening wicket that came off 13.3 overs. Both the batsmen played fluently as Tripura bowlers went left clueless about how to stop the flow of runs.
 
 Goswami got to his fifty in 29 balls while Singh got it playing 30 deliveries only. The latter ultimately perished being bowled by Abhay Negi for a well-made 71 which came off 43 balls that included seven fours and three sixes.
 
 Wicketkeeper-batsman Goswami, however, stayed till the end to see his team home with 12 balls to spare. The left-hander hit nine fours and three sixes for his undefeated 82 runs.
 
 He was given good support by skipper  , who hit one four and one six during his brief nine-ball stay in the middle for an unbeaten 15.
 
 However, the Bengal bowlers once again faltered as Tripura put up a challenging total of 169 for four after electing to bat first on winning the toss.
 
 Opener Smith Patel gave the side a good start making a 57-ball 73 with 11 hits to the boundary.
 
 Singh was happy to keep rolling in this tournament. “I have played with Shreevats earlier also and share a good rapport. It's nice to get runs consistently,” he was quoted as saying on the CAB website. “I was not in good form previously, but I have fought my way back in the team. I am happy to do justice to the faith the team has shown in me,” he added.
 
 For Bengal, Sumanta Gupta and Aamir Goni, who came in place of Anustuph Majumder and Anurag Tiwary, got one wicket each.
 
