For  , who’s been living out of her suitcase for a year now, shooting back-to-back for her Telugu and Tamil films, 2018 will be a year to take things easy and work smart. The actress, who’s currently shooting with   for VV Vinayak’s next, is looking forward to doing more good films, taking out some ‘me time’ for herself, travelling and most of all, shifting to her new pad in Hyderabad. Excerpts: 

 
 Yes! I was literally hopping from one hotel room to another, carting my bag full of clothes around all this while. I thought it’s high time I have a house here and finally, I found one in Jubilee Hills. Although it’s a rented house, it’s exactly what I wanted. I’m from Dehradun and we live in a bungalow there, so I wanted a place which is open and has lot of greenery around it. now that I have my own pad, my parents are going to visit me more often. Can’t wait to move in! 
 
 
 Obviously, ’cos I did some five movies back to back! I also saw lots of up and downs personally and professionally, but it only made me stronger as a person. It was year of experimenting; I did films to figure out what I’m good at. But in 2018, I will do good films and follow my heart. 
 
 
 It’s a commercial entertainer, but a theme based film which has romance, suspense and lot of action. I play a strong character of a girl who’s out of her college and back from the US. She’s today’s girl — stylish, smart and career-oriented. The hero tries to take her for a ride, but she’s so smart that she doesn’t fall into his trap. However, they end up falling in love... I can’t reveal anything more than that. we shot two songs recently in Muscat and Abu Dhabi. There are a few more songs left to shoot, after which it will be a wrap. I’m lucky to be working with one of my favourite directors, VV Vinayak sir. He’s so sweet and down to earth. Sai is a good guy, full of energy. 
 It was fun working with both of them. 
 
 
 A friend has invited me to her village near   to show me ‘cock fight’. If I get time, I’ll head there to check out how Sankranti is really celebrated in rural Andhra. If I’m in Hyderabad, I’ll be visiting my Telugu friends’ house and gorging on some Sankranti delicacies. I hope this Sankranti brings me lots of prosperity and happiness.
 
