MUMBAI: It’s the time of the year when bird lovers throng the   jetty with binoculars and cameras to observe congregations of various species of migratory birds. While the flamingos, have not kept their date with the Sewri-Mahul mudflats, waders like sandpipers, gulls and stints can be seen in good numbers. But birdwatchers coming from distant suburbs, lugging their spotting scopes and cameras, are returning disappointed as the jetty is in a dilapidated condition and police officials stationed at the spot have barricaded the area as a safety measure. 

 “There is a proposal to repair the jetty, but it will take time; the administrative approval and tendering process for repairs has not yet started,” said  , deputy chief engineer, civil engineering department,  . It will be attended to before the monsoon, he added. Birdwatchers are disappointed. “They should immediately start repair work,” said marine conservationist and birdwatcher  . “The birding season has already started. 
 
 The dilapidated portion of the jetty should be cordoned off and birdwatchers should be allowed access to the jetty,” he said. To add to the disappointment of nature lovers, oil spill from illegally parked tankers and trucks on the jetty is threatening mangroves abutting the jetty. “Fresh oil is spill again in the same area where tankers used to be parked,” said Patade whose repeated complaints led to the removal of tankers from the jetty after a mangrove stretch of approximately 40 metres was damaged by oil in 2016. Patade has documented various species of fish and crabs in these mangroves. 
 
 “We had stopped the parking of tankers completely by putting a barbed wire fence. I will send an official to check how this problem has reoccurred,” said Captain  , harbour master, Mumbai Port Trust. Veteran birdwatcher   recalled the days when there was less disturbance to the birds at Sewri. “Till about 10 years ago, no ships were repaired at the jetty.
 
  Now with the noise of repair work, birds that could be seen 10 metres from the jetty have moved 50-100 metres away.”
