ALLAHABAD/LUCKNOW: Dr  , who was arrested on criminal conspiracy charges in the case related to the death of more than 32 children on August 10-11last year at the state-run BRD Hospital in Gorakhpur, was on Wednesday granted bail by Allahabad high court after it accepted the doctor’s submission that he was not heading the wing on the day of the tragedy. He told the court that he was on leave on August 10, the first day of the tragedy.

 Khan had initially shot into prominence for arranging last-minute oxygen cylinders but later   police slapped him with charges of criminal conspiracy and criminal breach of trust by a government servant. Police, however, remained silent on the reason of the deaths. In its chargesheet, police had described Khan as nodal officer of the AES wing where the deaths had occurred.
 
 Khan, citing an RTI reply, claimed that an order dated May 11, 2016 had appointed Dr Bhupendra Sharma, co-professor (child disease wing) as the nodal officer of AES wing. He also claimed that he was only the nodal officer for the   (NRHM) wing.
 
 
 
 
 While directing Khan be released on bail, Justice   imposed several conditions, including that he shall not tamper with the records and documents relating to the criminal case of children’s deaths. Second, the court warned that he would not threaten or influence any witness in the case.
 
 Dr   Khan had cited three main reasons while claiming innocence in his bail plea before the Allahabad HC after the district court in Gorakhpur had rejected his application.
 
 During the course of hearing, counsel for Khan took the plea that “his client is a renowned doctor and had been languishing in jail for the last seven months”.
 
 His other ground was that children had died due to the interruption in oxygen supply and Dr Khan had no direct role in it. Further, he had been falsely implicated and allegations against him were baseless. Therefore, he deserved to be released on bail. However, counsel for the government opposed the bail on the ground that Dr Khan was in charge of the encephalitis department.
 
