Mumbai: State-run lender   said on Wednesday that it has narrowed its losses to Rs 1,524 crore in the quarter to December 2017 from Rs 2,255 crore in the year-ago period. The bank was helped by an improvement in net interest margin, which widened as it shrunk its balance sheet by repaying high-cost deposits.

 Despite an operating profit of Rs 5,225 crore, the bank registered losses as it made higher provisions of Rs 4,179 crore — up 30% from Rs 3,205 crore in the corresponding period last year. The provisions were largely towards bad loans.
 
 The government has agreed to infuse Rs 10,610 crore into the bank — the highest among the 20 state-run banks — through recapitalisation bonds by March 2018. Most of the funds will be utilised to make provisions for bad loans and the bank may issue fresh equity next fiscal to meet growth requirements and to bring down government stake to 75%.
 
 Announcing the results, IDBI Bank deputy MD G M Yadwadkar said that he expected the lender may turn in a net profit in three to four quarters. “Bottom line returning to black will be a significant factor for coming out of the RBI’s prompt corrective action (PCA),” he said. The   framework places restrictions on the activities of banks in terms of expansion, salaries, dividend and lending.
 
 Unveiling the bank’s programme to get back on track, deputy MD K P Nair said that the lender is in the midst of selling non-core assets. It has already sold strategic shareholding in companies that it helped promote, like   ( ) and   ( ), and has raised over Rs 2,000 crore during the quarter ended December. It is currently in the process of selling its 48% stake in IDBI Federal Life Insurance and in IDBI Trusteeship Company. IDBI’s stake in its life insurance arm is valued at over Rs 2,000 crore. “If the deal requires us to retain a minority stake, we are open to that,” said Nair.
 
 The bank also has plans to rationalise its branch network by merging branches that are making losses for over five years. The bank has already identified 31 branches that can be shut down. “We have also analysed the usage of ATMs and have closed 105 machines which were not seeing much,” said Nair.
 
 The bank has been shrinking its balance sheet as part of a strategy to conserve capital. Reducing corporate loans has helped increase the share of higher yielding retail loans and at the same time reduced targets for priority sector lending, which are a drain on the bank’s balance sheet.
 
 The bank has the highest ratio of gross non-performing assets among large banks at 24.72% (15.6% a year ago) and net NPAs of 16.02% (9.6%).
 
 
