HYDERABAD: Sixteen people were injured - one of them critically - after a major fire broke out in Medipally, on the city outskirts, on Friday afternoon, when two stationary lorries, carrying fuel, exploded. A case of negligence was booked against unknown persons, by the Medipally police. 

 While six of the injured were moved to the state-run Gandhi Hospital for treatment, the 10 others were taken to a nearby private hospital, said  , deputy commissioner of police ( ). 
 
 According to Gandhi Hospital authorities, the condition of one of the victims, identified as 32-year-old Venkatesh Naik, is critical. 
 
 "The patient has suffered 80 per cent burns. His condition is likely to deteriorate further," said P  , superintendent of the hospital. The others, he said, were brought in with 20-30 per cent burn injuries.
 
 Preliminary investigation conducted by the local police and fire service department sleuths hint at the possibility of pilferage of fuel from an oil tanker, as the reason for the fire. "The two oil tanks were parked adjacent to each other. It appears that some people tried to pilfer oil using wielding/soldering machines from one of the tankers. The sparks caused due to that led to the lorry catching fire. Soon it spread to the other oil tanker, which also exploded," the   said. 
 
 According to sources, one of the victims was filming the fire when tragedy struck. The others, including Naik, an RTC employee, were regular motorists riding on the road only a few feet away from the site of the mishap, they added. 
 
 Speaking about the incident, officials of the Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department said, the fire control room received a call at 1.33 pm. Seven fire tenders, including water-cum-foam vehicles, from Moula Ali, Cherlapally, Malkajgiri, Sanath Nagar, Musheerabad and Secretariat were rushed to the spot. 
 
 "It took one-and-half hours for us to extinguish the fire. The entire locality was covered in a thick cloud of black smoke. We had to vacate people from a residential building for security reasons," said  , station fire officer, Cherlapally. 
 
 While the fire also gutted a furniture shop located nearby, officials are still in the process of ascertaining the estimated worth of the damage. The accident, predictably, created panic among residents of the area who were seen scrambling for cover. The traffic too came to a grinding halt, albeit briefly.
 
 
