DURBAN: The first of six One-day Internationals between   and India, scheduled at the Kingsmead cricket stadium here for Thursday, is a sellout. There are only that many this 25,000-capacity stadium can accommodate, and even the parking lot here within the stadium premises does not have a place to squeeze in.

 
 Durban happens to be one of those South African cities where India, the moment they arrive, begin to feel at home. The Kingsmead track, to add to the frenzy, is a belter: a 350-kind of wicket that should make up for all the runs that had dried up in the longer format all of January.
 
 
 : 
 
 
 Where the contest is concerned, there’s much at stake. South Africa haven’t lost the last 17 One-day matches they’ve played at home and are the World’s No. 1 ranked team. Catching up fiercely, India have lost a mere seven games in their last 25-odd outings, which more or less pits the two teams on an equal footing.
 
 And in the present scenario, following an overwhelmingly well-fought Test series, both teams have a point to prove. It is here that the series — starting with Thursday’s game — has a lot to offer in terms of a contest but little to gain from in the present context.
 
 
 
 
 “Durban has always been a very special venue (for India) because of the support factor. We have huge support all around the world but this is very different. It’s very much like playing in India, even the weather (is similar). We always enjoy playing in front of big crowds. You get to motivate yourself more. We’re looking forward to playing in front of a sellout crowd,” says Kohli.
 
 The format alone dictates that the Indian team is very much in its elements.
 
 Inside Kohli’s mind, India’s core for the 2019 ICC World Cup is ready. “We feel that the core of the players is more or less sorted. It’s about who takes that one particular spot,” adds the India captain.
 
 This series offers the first of many opportunities to help the team management polish that core.
 
 Ahead of Thursday’s match for instance, all that Kohli has to decide going in is if Ajinkya Rahane gets picked ahead of Manish Pandey and between Mohammed Shami and Shardul Thakur, who gets into the XI.
 
 Faf du Plessis, on the other hand, is far away from finding his core yet where the World Cup is concerned. “I feel this is the first time we’ve really taken a small step into the ‘now’. I think we’ll give some opportunities for young guys to come through in this series,” says the South African skipper.
 
 With AB de Villiers ruled out, the hosts already find themselves at a disadvantage.
 
 The contest to this series is quite meaningful. A team that had been working on its core the last six months in a face-off in overseas conditions against a team that’s been on a rampage at home but yet to figure out the bigger picture where the ICC World Cup is concerned.
 
 It is the context that makes little sense.
 
 The recently-concluded three Test series, in hindsight, clearly seems to have lost out on a match or two that could’ve added more meaning to the clash. The original idea, that the BCCI and Cricket South Africa couldn’t work out to much effect, was to schedule four Tests.
 
 It is here that the One-day series, one that consumes more than 15 days on this tour, doesn’t fit very well. An added Test, at the cost of a couple of ODIs or a T20I, could’ve rounded up a fascinating clash between India and South Africa way better.
 
 Simply for the clash between two high-quality teams, these One-dayers retain their significance. In an ideal world, the Test series should’ve continued and these ODIs could’ve been played another time.
 
 
