HYDERABAD: Minority welfare received massive funds support in the  , which proposed ₹2,000 crore for minorities — the highest-ever earmarked by any state in the country. An amount of ₹1,200 crore was provided in the last fiscal for minorities.

 Monthly salaries for muezzins and imams of mosques, special fund for Muslim orphans, special fund for higher overseas education of Muslim students, self-employment schemes and residential schools are some initiatives proposed in the budget.
  
  
 Stating that minorities in   are reeling under poverty, the TRS government decided to extend all schemes meant for welfare of SCs and STs to minorities. To give a big boost to education, it has set up 206 residential educational institutions for minorities in last 4 years. In these institutions, 47,818 students have got admissions. In the  , an amount of ₹735 crore has been proposed for minority residential schools. Budget also allotted ₹20 crore for constructing a building for Anis-Ul-Gurba at Nampally, which takes care of Muslim orphans.
 
 The subsidy under selfemployment schemes for Muslim youth has been enhanced form 50% to 80%. For the first time in the country, the budget proposes honorarium at a rate of 1,500 per month to imams and muezzins working in 5,000 mosques. As many as 8,934 imams and muezzins throughout the state will stand to benefit. The state government has allotted 10 acres of land at Kokapet for construction of a Hyderabad Islamic Centre cum convention hall. The budget proposals have also initiated steps for preserving Urdu by appointing Urdu teachers in government educational institutions.
 
 Reacting to the allotment made to minorities,   leader  , said, “I compliment finance minister sahab for earmarking an outlay of ₹2,000 crore for minorities welfare in the 2018-19 budget, compared to ₹1,250 crore allocated in the current 2017-18 budget. This represents a substantial increase of 60%. The hike in minorities’ welfare outlay is the result of keen interest evinced by the Chief Minister   sahab ever since the formation of Telangana state in 2014.”
 
 Meanwhile, IT minister   described the state budget as an exceptional budget as agriculture took centre-stage. He described the budget as ‘path-breaking’.
 
 
