RAJKOT: The coastal town of Porbandar evokes two contrasting memories. One that of ‘apostle of peace’ Mahatma Gandhi and other of bullet shots being fired in the air in broad daylight during the reign of dons like ‘Godmother’ Santokben Jadeja or Sarman Munjha. 

 But take a break from these documented facts, good or bad. The birthplace of Mahatma Gandhi has given a new lease of life to house sparrows that have become a rarity amid rapid urbanization.
 
  
  
 
 
 A sustained four-year campaign by local bird lovers has resulted in sparrows chirping not only in Porbandar town but across the district — be it the coast, houses or even paan shops. From a bread pakoda seller on the beach to paan shopowner, everyone has religiously joined the campaign to save sparrows.
 
 
  
  
 
 In fact, the family of former gangster Sarman Munjha also distributed nearly 1,000 nests with his name and message ‘Save Sparrows’ printed on each on his death anniversary last year.
 
 
  
  
 
 Bharat  , president of   in Porbandar, said, “To encourage people, we publicly honour all those who have helped bring sparrows to their premises, every year. We have been distributing nests and bird feeder free of cost since 2010 and sparrow conservation activity is done round the year.”
 
 
  
  
 
 It is not just the bird lovers who have joined the campaign. Malde Panwala’s shop in Ambarda village, some 25km from Porbandar, is a haven for sparrows. They are seen perched on his shoulders too as he makes paan for customers. He has drilled holes in his shop so that sparrows can fly in and out easily during the night too.
 
 Another sparrow lover and conservator in Mahatma’s land is  , whose house in Sitaramnagar is constantly chirping with sparrows in nearly 20 nests “When chicks are born, we switch off the fans for few days so that sparrows don’t get injured. It doesn’t matter however scorching the heat is,” she said.
 
 Khimji Kachra, a farmer of Vanana village, 10km from Porbandar, has housed 300 sparrows in his field. Every month, he keeps aside 40kg grains to feed these birds. 
 
 However, the passion to save sparrows is not limited to Porbandar. Ashwin Barad, a paan shop owner in Dedama village near Veraval. Barad has around 120 nests outside his shop where regular customers and villagers come only to hear the birds chirping.
 
 “It was three years ago that I felt very concerned on learning about the drastic fall in number of sparrows. I decided to do whatever I could. I used the outside area of my paan shop and started feeding them. The number of sparrows is growing day by day and now there is space crunch too. Nearly 200 sparrows come here daily.” 
 
 
