VELLORE: The sports day at a   in   ended on a tragic note on Wednesday when a helium cylinder used to fill balloons exploded, killing one student and leaving another battling for life. Police have registered a case against the balloon seller, who is absconding.

 The incident occurred at Shanthiniketan Matriculation Higher Secondary School in   around 4.15pm, before the start of the prize distribution.  , engaged to supply balloons for the function, was inflating them when his assistant poured water into the cylinder and it blew apart.
 
 Witnesses later told police that the bottom portion flew nearly 250 feet before smashing into a parapet wall on which a group of Class XII students were sitting.  , son of Velu, died instantly. Naveen, son of  , was injured in the incident.
 
 
 
 
 Naveen is being treated at the Christian Medical College Hospital where his condition is said to be critical. Many at the ground said the impact of the explosion was so intense that the water barrel was shattered and the seller’s two-wheeler was flung away to a distance of several metres. “We found the top portion of the cylinder in the parking lot of the Community Health and Development building, opposite the school, on Vellore-Bagayam Road,” said a policeman who is part of the investigation team.
 
 Several others thought a transformer had exploded. “Scores of students took shelter in the auditorium and along the parapet wall,” said a witness.
 
 A team of the Bagayam police rushed to the spot and cordoned off the spot. They asked students and parents to leave the campus immediately. Parts of the exploded cylinder, a plastic bag containing chemicals and the two-wheeler and other samples were collected from the spot for further investigation.
 
 Vellore superintendent of police P Pakalavan said the sports day was for students of Classes VI to XII and that more than 500 students were present. “We are conducting a detailed inquiry to find out what went wrong. We are looking for the balloon seller [Ganapathy],” he told TOI.
 
 The school authorities had asked him to leave after supplying the balloons for the drill, but he remained there and continued to sell balloons to students, said the SP.
 
 
