BENGALURU: A private residence in a gated community behind Chalukya Circle will soon have a new, high-profile tenant —   national president  . As assembly elections draw near, state Congress and BJP workers have arranged private residences for their national leaders, who will camp in the state over the next couple of months.
 
 While the BJP has arranged three houses for their central leaders including Shah, the Congress has arranged a four-bedroom apartment near   for their four AICC secretaries. The party is scouring Bengaluru’s central business district for a suitable house for K C Venugopal, AICC general secretary and Karnataka in-charge.
 
 Sources say Shah’s house has been rented at a “nominal” rate from a BJP “well-wisher”. “On account of the Z security cover for Shah, the house is secluded from the hustle and bustle of the city,” a party worker said. The residence is said to be fully furnished and will house Shah, his assistants, a housekeeper and a cook contracted on a 24x7 basis for the next couple of months.
 
 Similarly, an apartment in Rajmahal Vilas in Sadashivanagar has been arranged for Prakash Javadekar, Union minister for human resources development and the BJP’s Karnataka election in-charge. P Muralidhar, BJP state in-charge and general secretary, is the other high-ranking office bearer who has been provided with an independent house — in Rajajinagar First Block.
 
 While Javadekar’s residence is owned by a BJP worker, Rao’s independent bungalow is out on rent. Meanwhile, Piyush Goyal, the other national leader and Union railways minister, is scheduled to use Rail Bhavan for the time being. Goyal may shift base to a private residence after the model code of conduct kicks in.
 
 “The prime reason for securing private residences rather than accommodating them in a five-star hotel is to ensure that there is no inconvenience caused to the general public,” said a BJP leader. “A lot of political meetings will take place and party workers will visit them over the course of the election campaign. Also, the movement of these VVIPs will be unpredictable and could inconvenience hotel staff and guests. Also, home-cooked meals are a better option for the heath of these leaders instead of risking an upset stomach with meals from outside. It will be a two-month long stay.”
 
 The Congress, meanwhile, has also set up a war-room on  . This house is currently being used as a residence for Venugopal. “The party did not want to use the Kumara Krupa guest house for political meetings, as it will create a controversy,” a Congress party worker said. 
 
 
 
