HYDERABAD: In a big boost for the Central Crime Station sleuths probing the Puppalaguda land case, the ministry of home affairs ( ) has replied in writing to the investigating agency that the names of legal heirs of the displaced person was not entered in the claim index as mandated. This may give the   crucial evidence in the case registered in 2016 against   and others.

 The original claimant,  , had migrated to the Hyderabad from the Sindh province in Pakistan during partition and was allotted 323 acres of land in 1956 under the provisions of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act and Administration of Evacuee Property Act. Of this, he got around 83 acres in Bowenpally and later died in 1988.
 
 The accused,   Malani, claiming to be the legal heir, filed a claim for nearly 200 acres after 47 years of the original allotment and 13 years after the death of Parasaram Malani. The then Chief Commissioner of Land Administration processed the request and in 2003 allotted 148 acres, worth ₹2,220 crore, to Ramesh Malani and his brothers and sisters. Later Ramesh claimed he had the general power of attorney from his siblings and sold the land to industrialists.
 
 In 2006, the then Ranga Reddy district collector Seshadri filed a writ petition against the allotment. The high court cancelled the allotment in 2016 and asked the government to probe the matter. The CCS, however, had been struggling to find evidence since then.
 
 “The MHA replied to us stating that names of the persons claiming to be legal heirs are not in the claim index of the original claimant Parasaram Ramchand Malani. As per norms, the names of legal heirs have to be entered in the claim index within 120 days of the death of original claimant. Otherwise, the allotment cannot be done,” CCS deputy commissioner of police, Avinash  , told 
  on Thursday.
 
 “Ramesh Malani’s name is not in the claim index of evacuee property and he also failed to produce his brother and sisters from whom he claimed to have obtained General Power of Attorney. Interestingly, several documents are missing in the file containing the order by the MRO/ Tahsildar stating that Ramesh Malani is the legal heir of Parasaram Malani. Only the order exists, but the link documents establishing the basis on which the order was issued are missing,” Mohanty explained.
 
 Also, all the legal heirs had given their address as Shyam Karan Road in Ameerpet, but when cops went to verify the house they found that no one except Ramesh Malani was staying there.
 
 CCS teams went to Delhi on Thursday to record the statements of MHA officials as witnesses regarding the alleged land scam.
 
