BENGALURU: Slain activist-journalist Gauri Lankesh’s brother   on Monday said he would soon move the Karnataka high court seeking a   into his sister’s murder.

 Accusing the Siddaramiah-led government of politicising the murder without showing any sincerity to crack the case,  , a journalist too, said the   (SIT) released sketches of suspects with vermilion on the forehead just to mislead the public.
 
 “I want to appeal to the high court seeking justice and without a CBI probe, the truth will never come out and justice will not prevail,” Indrajit said.
 
 While Gauri’s friends and fellow activists celebrated her birthday on Monday, Indrajit stayed away. “In the past, I have been embarrassed by such events even in the presence of the chief minister. I don’t want to be embarrassed again,” he said.
 
 He, along with his wife and a few friends, visited Gauri’s grave at the Chamarajpet burial ground and paid their respects. 
 
 However, Gauri’s sister Kavitha said she is seing good progress in the SIT probe and “trusted” the agency. The SIT has asked for a month’s time and is updating her and her mother about the probe’s progress. “There has been good progress. They have evidence but are taking time so that they have solid evidence to avoid any gaps. I trust them,” she said.
 
 On Indrajit's comments, she said, “I don't know what he is saying... without speaking to (SIT) officers or knowing things, it is wrong to comment.”
 
 On the move to seek a CBI probe, Kavitha said it would only send a wrong message as the investigation would have to start from the beginning. Moreover, not one of the 13 cases from Karnataka being probed by CBI had been solved yet, she said. “When SIT has made such progress, at a time when it is ending if it goes to CBI they will start from the beginning.”
 
 Govt mum on killers
 
 The state government, including chief minister Siddaramaiah, on Monday deflected all questions pertaining to the case.
 
 At the KPCC office, home minister Ramalinga Reddy said: “Let us not talk about the   murder investigation today."
 
 Siddaramaiah. who was at the KPTCL office holding pre-budget meetings, did not stop to respond to questions on the issue and walked inside.
 
 
