JAIPUR: It will be homecoming for Lalsot (Dausa) legislator Kirori Lal Meena. A decade after he quit BJP, the National People’s Party (NPP) lawmaker is set to return to his original party on

 
 Sunday. The ruling party is likely to nominate the 67-year-old tribal leader from one of the three Rajya Sabha seats from the state for which the election process has begun.
 
 
 Having suffered a humiliating defeat in the bypolls last month, BJP is looking to woo Dalits through Meena, a five-term MLA who has been to Lok Sabha twice. Meena has a strong RSS background and associated with the saffron organisation since his student days. “I am returning home, without any conditions,” Meena confirmed on Saturday night, after holding a series of meetings with BJP leaders throughout the day. “I have conveyed my message to the party high command. Now, they have to take the decision,” Meena added.
 
 
 The political development led to several speculations. Though his return to BJP is almost final, an official announcement regarding the same is expected on Sunday. Sources said the BJP central leadership was more keener than the state unit on having Meena back in the fold. NPP leader Kirori Lal Meena (in white) with agriculture minister Prabhu Lal Saini and state BJP president   in the city on Saturday
 
 
 
 
 
  “The party high command has been busy at meetings all day today. We are waiting for a final clearance from them,” said Ashok Parnami, BJP state president, confirming that the ground has been set for Meena’s return to the party.
 
 
 Sources said the delay in formal announcement was due to Meena insisting on BJP fielding his younger brother Jagmohan Meena, a former government official, from the Rajya Sabha seat. The state leadership, however, wants Meena to go to the Upper House.
 
 
 Sources said Meena, along with his wife Golma Devi and NPP MLA Geeta Verma, will join BJP on Sunday. The state assembly has four NPP MLAs, including Golma Devi from Rajgarh-Laxmangarh (Alwar), Geeta Verma from Sikrai (Dausa) and   from Amber (Jaipur). With three of them joining BJP, the state unit of NPP will merge with the ruling party.
 
 
 Since Meena had already alerted his supporters about his plans, a large number of people began gathering at his government residence in CScheme around midday. A little later his wife Golma, accompanied Geeta Verma, too reached the house from their native place in Dausa.
 
 
 The supporters began celebrating and distributing sweets even while Meena was engaged in talks with chief minister   at the latter’s residence in Civil Lines. Cabinet ministers Ram Pratap, Prabhu Lal Saini and   played the role of key mediators.
 
