Chennai : Opposition parties led by DMK decided on Sunday to go ahead with the planned protests across the state on Monday to force the state government to completely withdraw the steep increase in bus fare announced recently. They also termed the partial reduction in hike, announced by the government on Sunday, as eyewash.

 “We have decided to go ahead with the planned protests on Monday to force the state government to completely withdraw the steep increase in bus fare. The partial reduction in the hiked bus fare is just eyewash,” DMK working president M K Stalin told reporters, at the end of the all party meeting held in the party headquarters here on Sunday. The meeting was attended by several opposition parties including the Congress, the Communists and the VCK among others.
 
 “The meeting also resolved to urge the state government to withdraw the cases filed against the public, who agitated to show their concern over the steep increase in bus fare and which has resulted in affecting their livelihood,” Stalin said. The demonstrations and protests will be held across all district and taluk headquarters on Monday, irrespective of whether the police grant permission for the same. “We will meet again and discuss further moves, after tomorrow’s demonstrations, to force the government to withdraw completely the hike in bus fares,” Stalin said.
 
 Meanwhile, DMDK too has decided to go ahead with its planned agitation on Monday to force the state government to withdraw the recent increase in bus fare. “While the government hiked the bus fare by almost 67% and has now reduced it marginally. This is only a drama to show they have reduced the increase. Hence, DMDK will go ahead with its planned agitation against the increase in bus fare on Monday,” party president Vijayakant said on Sunday.
 
 PMK founder, Ramadoss too attacked the state government on Sunday on the reduction in the hiked bus fare. “The government increased by bus fare almost 100% on several segments. But, when it comes to reduction, they have reduced it in the range of a mere 3 – 7 %. Instead of indulging in such acts, the government should completely withdraw the recent increase in bus fare and focus on effective administration to reduce operational costs of the transport corporations,” Ramadoss said.
 
 Ends/dg
 
 
