CHENNAI: Chennai City FC’s (CCFC) Singaporean technical consultant Mohammad Akbar Bin Abdul Nawas will take over the coaching duties of the side from   in the Super Cup, a knockout tournament starting in Bhubaneswar on Thursday.   will be facing ATK on Friday.

 
 A source close to the developments said that Akbar is likely to continue as coach for the next season too. He also revealed that the club is in talks with former Manchester City and Barcelona technical scout Jordi Vila to become Akbar’s deputy apart from heading CCFC’s youth development programme.
 
 “We are in advanced talks with both but nothing is final till now. Only thing which is certain is Akbar will be in charge of the team in Super Cup. Vila, who has a very impressive resume, is likely to be the director of youth development and the assistant coach. He has worked with coaches like Pep Guardiola and has decent tactical knowledge. He will be joining the squad, who are already undergoing training in Bhubaneswar, on Thursday. Once we meet him, we are likely to finalise things,” the source said.
 
 CCFC had appointed Akbar as technical consultant for their last four I-League matches after it emerged that Soundararajan had lost the confidence of senior players and foreigners. The AFC Pro-licence coach’s strategy and tactics then proved crucial as the team, who were struggling until then, went on to save relegation. The source informed that Soundararajan had already left for office duty. “His contract was till the I-League and he sought his leave after the competition. Also, Southern Railway had qualified for some international event. Being an S Railway employee, he was summoned to select their players. So we thought better to give charge to Akbar,” the source said.
 
 
 
 CCFC will field only three foreigners in the Super Cup after they parted ways Aleksandar Rakic. The Serbian forward, who joined the squad last month as a replacement for Murilo, wanted to extend his contract till next season but CCFC thought it was too early to make a decision. “We had told him to wait but then he wanted to sort his contract first before making a commitment. So we had to part ways,” said the source.
 
 CCFC had already released Slovenian goalkeeper Uros Poljanec, who was ruled out for a month with a grade two ACL injury on his right knee. CCFC then will have French forward Jean Michel Joachim, Korean midfielder Kim Dong-hyeon and defender Venyamin Shumeyko of Kyrgyzstan in their ranks for the Super Cup.
 
 
 
 The source also said that the organisers are giving preferential treatment to the   teams in the Super Cup. While CCFC have to travel more than an hour to reach their practice ground, their opponents ATK could train at the venue — the Kalinga Stadium. “We have already told the organisers. But they hardly paid any heed to our complaints. It’s not fair at all,” said the source.
 
