The 9 days of holiness and devotion towards the ultimate women power, Goddess Durga has already begun. Goddess Durga is worshiped in different forms and figures for all these days. While each day has a dedicated ritual and style of praying, it also speaks distinctively of their relevance.

 
 On the 5th day of  ,we worship Goddess Parvati in the name of  . She is said to be the mother of Lord  , or   who is referred as the God of War and son of Shiva.
 
 
 
 
 Skanda mata is known for her profound endurance and firm stance as a mother. It is commonly said that one who worships Skanda Mata receives the virtues of Kartikeya, the god of war himself.
 
 She sits on a lion, which is her vahana or vehicle. And is often shown with four hands. Two of which holds lotus. She also is seen meditating on lotus and hence called as Goddess Padmasana. 
 
 In mythological stories of Skanda it is said that when all deities, saints and humans succumbed to the tyranny of devil Tarakasur, it was Lord Kartikeya or Skanda who ended the monster. Being the creator of this brave lord, Skanda Mata is worshipped for power and grace.
 
 The Panchami of Navratri pooja is completely dedicated Skanda Mata. It is also a belief that when devotees face delima and crisis in their lives it is her blessings that is bestowed to move on a path towards betterment and further to salvation.
 
 
 
 
 The day starts with setting up the idol of Skanda Mata. It is then purified with Ganga jal, water of ganges or gau mutra, cow’s urine. After placing a coconut on the earthen pot filled with water, devotees take sankalp, or pledge to pray to all the gods and finally do an aarti and distribute the prasad.
 
 
 
 :
 
 Goddess Parvati is often seen with a pure white complexion. Red coloured flowers are said to be her favourite. 
 
 
 
 
 While there are numerous mantras which are supposed to be chanted all 9 days. These chants are special mantra which is dedicated to Skanda Mata for the 5th day of Navratri.
 
  
 
 ॐ देवी स्कन्दमातायै नमः॥
 
 Om Devi Skandamata Yai Namaha॥
 
  
 
 Simhasanagata Nityam Padmanchita Karadvaya।
 
 Shubhadastu Sada Devi Skandamata Yashasvini॥
 
  
 
 
 
 जय तेरी हो अस्कंध माता 
 
 पांचवा नाम तुम्हारा आता 
 
 सब के मन की जानन हारी 
 
 जग जननी सब की महतारी 
 
 तेरी ज्योत जलाता रहू मै 
 
 हरदम तुम्हे ध्याता रहू मै 
 
 कई नामो से तुझे पुकारा 
 
 मुझे एक है तेरा सहारा 
 
 कही पहाड़ो पर है डेरा 
 
 कई शेहरो मै तेरा बसेरा 
 
 हर मंदिर मै तेरे नजारे 
 
 गुण गाये तेरे भगत प्यारे 
 
 भगति अपनी मुझे दिला दो 
 
 शक्ति मेरी बिगड़ी बना दो 
 
 इन्दर आदी देवता मिल सारे 
 
 करे पुकार तुम्हारे द्वारे 
 
 दुष्ट दत्य जब चढ़ कर आये 
 
 तुम ही खंडा हाथ उठाये 
 
 दासो को सदा बचाने आई 
 
 'चमन' की आस पुजाने आई
 
