 Kaali

   
 
 
 The first adjective that comes to our mind when we listen to the album of Kaali is the word ‘mature’. Vijay Antony, who’s known for churning out immensely youthful, peppy tracks, has come out with a five-song album full of striking tunes that are, well, mature. Seems like the composer, who is also playing the lead in the Kiruthiga Udhayanidhi directorial, has decided to stick to the genre of the film and come up with songs that complement the subject of the story. He opens the album with a hardcore melody, Arumbey, which sweeps you with its orchestration from the word go. A brilliant violin solo kickstarts the song, and even as the santoor builds up anticipation, a beautifully woven together string section leads you slowly to the vocals. Nivas and   are at their classical best, bringing alive Vivek’s lyrics with much gusto. The interludes are as interesting as the prelude, and Vijay Antony has balanced the composition well, making it easily the pick of the album. 
 
 Nivas’s second song for the composer is  , a tribute to mother’s love. The tune maintains a steady pace, and the song sounds 
 haunting, especially in places where the flute has a major role to play. Next in line is Nooraai, a slightly fast-paced romantic number. It has a fairly simple tune, and in fact, sounds repetitive at certain junctures, but what makes it interesting is that it is a fusion of both traditional sounds and techno beats. Hemachandra and Sangeetha Rajeshwaran carry the song with amazing confidence, and give it a playful touch, especially while stressing on the words ‘thozha’ and ‘thozhi’. Poorayo is a two-minute pathos number, rendered by Deepak. While the violin section makes an impact, there’s nothing much to write home about. Slow, and melancholic, this song might be apt if it features as background score, but doesn’t add much value to the soundtrack. A typical inspirational number, Manusha   has been sung by Jagadeesh, and has kids giving him company in the chorus. Zesty and quite aspirational, this song, too, might add value to the film on screen, but has no repeat value. 
 
