HYDERABAD: The much-awaited moment in Indian men’s badminton came on Thursday as Kidambi   was finally crowned the new World No. 1. After a few misses, the coronation took place as Srikanth became the first Indian man to scale this phenomenal peak in the new ranking era.   was the world’s top player before that.

 
 Three days after TOI predicted the ascension of Srikanth, Badminton World Federation (BWF) confirmed it in the weekly rankings released on Thursday. Riding on red-hot performances in 2017, the 25-year-old achieved the top rank with 76,895 points and thereby displaced World champion Viktor Axelsen. Srikanth is the only Indian shuttler and the fourth in the world to win four Super Series titles in a calendar year. Last year, the Guntur-boy was in sensational form winning the Indonesia Open, Australia Open, Denmark Open and the French Open titles. He also reached the finals of the Singapore Open Super Series but lost to friend and compatriot Sai Praneeth.
 
 “I am extremely delighted to become No. 1. The feeling is yet to sink in. I knew that I would become No. 1 today, but once the official announcement is made it’s altogether a different experience. When I started my career I never thought that I would one day become the World No. 1. It’s a dream for every shuttler to reach here,” Srikanth told TOI from Gold Coast on Thursday.
 
 Srikanth should have scaled the summit last November itself. But an untimely injury prevented him from playing the China Open and other tournaments. But the Indian has no regrets and said that winning more tournaments is important than the rankings. “Had I reached the quarters of a couple of tournaments towards the end of the year, I could have become No. 1. But I never felt bad about that. For me winning more tournaments is important and the ranking will take care of itself. Now there is more responsibility on my shoulders and I like it that way. I want to win more titles. I want to do well at the Tokyo Olympics,” Srikanth said.
 
 Pullela Gopichand, the man who identified the tremendous talent in Srikanth, said he did not expect his ward to make it so big. “I expected him to do very well, but to be frank I didn’t think he would become No. 1 one day. To become No. 1 is a huge achievement not only for Srikanth but also for  . He has raised the bar so high that he is now an inspiration for scores of youngsters. It is great to have Indians as top ranking shuttlers. Now that he has become No. 1, Srikanth can be more relaxed. He can focus on winning big titles,” Gopichand said.
 
 When Indian badminton was all about Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu, Srikanth announced his arrival in 2013 when he became the first Indian man to win a Grand Prix Gold title outside India. But the defining moment came in 2014 when he stunned the legendary   before the latter’s home crowd to win the China Open Super Series Premier title. Srikanth was the first Indian man to triumph in a Super Series. He then went on to win the India Open Super Series in 2015. But a few injuries slowed down his progress before he exploded in 2017.
 
