VELLORE: Making a mockery of the ongoing election process for cooperative societies in Tamil Nadu, party office bearers of the   and its arch rival   have struck a deal in   taluk in Vellore district to share the posts. 

 Officials engaged in election work have dubbed it a “farce” and said the entire process of receiving nominations for posts in cooperative societies and scrutinising them was an “eyewash”. It is worse in the constituencies of ministers K C Veeramani (Jolarpet) and Nilofer Kafeel (Vaniyambadi), said sources.
 
 The candidates are handpicked by the MLAs and the functionaries of the ruling party from among their coteries, said an election officer seeking anonymity. 
 
 Elections are being held for 186 societies, including agriculture and milk cooperative societies in the first phase in Vellore district. The ministers, MLAs and district functionaries of ruling parties got their supporters elected unopposed to 169 societies. The election would be held for only 14 agriculture cooperative societies and three milk cooperative societies in the first phase on April 2.
 
 “The list of candidates was sent from the deputy registrars of the cooperative departments. They selected the candidates to please their political masters,” said another election officer. 
 
 For instance, the election officer (Sasikumar) of the cooperative society in Kurisilapet scrutinised the nomination papers on Tuesday and displayed the list of 39 eligible candidates. The official should display the list of candidates in the fray for the post of 11 directors after withdrawal of nominations on Wednesday.
 
 “The final list of candidates should be displayed at 5pm on Wednesday (March 28). But it was not done until 1am on Thursday,” K Sugam, an AIADMK panchayat secretary of Kursilapet and one of the candidates in the list, told TOI. The official displayed the list of only 11 candidates (seven from DMK and four from AIADMK) at the society. By doing so, they ensure that they were elected unopposed.
 
 Former AIADMK MLA and Kandhili union secretary K G Ramesh said he discussed the election among villagers and various party cadres, including DMK, to finding an “amicable solution” to select candidates unopposed. “There is nothing wrong in selecting good candidates. These are honouray posts,” he added.
 
  “My name was second on the list of 39 candidates after the scrutiny and I did not withdraw my nomination paper. But my name was not in the final list. It is blatant rigging,” said P Shanmugam, one of the candidates. Tirupathur DMK MLA A Nallathambi said, “We want the election to be held in free and fair manner. But the AIADMK government and partymen are against it,” he said.
 
 
