AHMEDABAD: While members of the Patidar community have put up a strong agitation over the last three years to pressure the state government to accord it   status, a section of the community from north Gujarat on Saturday moved the Gujarat high court, to speed up the legal process to include the caste on the list of other backward classes (OBCs).

 Kadva Patidars from Visnagar in Mehsana district requested the high court to direct the Other Backward Classes Commission and the state government to expedite the process to evaluate of their social and educational backwardness.
 
 In its petition through advocate Vishal Dave, the Shri Mota Bavan Kadva Patidar Samaj and its president, Ambalal Patel, complained that an application was submitted to the OBC commission in February 2016 to study the status of the caste and add it to the OBC list. All the required material was supplied to the commission after filing the application, but the commission has not responded till now.
 
 The petitioner cited the Supreme Court decision in the Indra Sawhney case and submitted that the governments have set up the commission to evaluate the status of castes for the purpose of inclusion on the OBC list. The commission is supposed to look into their application and undertake the evaluation process. As it is sitting over the request, it should be directed to examine the Kadva Patidars’ request for OBC status and to give an opinion on the matter within six months’ time after hearing the applicant.
 
 The matter was listed for hearing before Justice A J Shastri, but the hearing on it will take place after the summer vacation, on June 12. Three years ago, when Patidar youths began demanding OBC status for the community, they were apparently against taking the legal route. After a rift between the leading two groups of agitators, one approached the OBC commission. This move was objected to then by the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), led by Hardik Patel who was jailed on sedition charges by the state government by then.
 
 
