INDORE: Police on Thursday arrested two youths for running a fake apparel delivery racket on  . The accused posted photographs of apparel for sale and collected money from buyers, without delivering the products. 

 Police had received complaints from different areas that even after making online transactions for their orders to an apparel company on Facebook, the complainants had not received the clothes on the said address. 
 
 Crime branch police took out the details of online company Angel Garments. Based on the address available and bank details shared by the complainants, police arrested two youths including Vishal Vimaniya, son of Purushottam, 21, resident of Ma Sharda Nagar and Kushwaha, son of Babulal, 18, resident of Lahiya Nagar. 
 
 They told police that they had started a fake company Angel Garments on social networking site where they shared pictures of attractive clothes. 
 
 They used to ask the interested people to deposit amount for the said apparels in an account. Many people from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh were duped and they sent the money. 
 
 The accused claimed that they assured the people that their clothes will be delivered, however, after some time, blocked the numbers and stopped receiving calls. 
 
 Police said that the accused are fans of a Bollywood actor and are very fond of living like him. They purchase clothes like him and even get haircuts done in the way he does. 
 
 In order to live such a life, they needed money for which they had started duping people. A case was registered against the accused. “They are being interrogated more on the crime,” said Amrendra Singh, ASP crime branch. 
 
 E-wallet 
 
 Indore cell of state cyber police on Thursday issued an advisory for the E-wallet users after some cases of youths using cloned/dummy e-wallets came across in the past few days.
 
 A ‘successful transaction’ message received from the person receiving the payment should not be considered as a valid message for the completion of the transaction. One should wait for a message from the bank. 
 
 Do not accept the completion of transaction until a mail or valid message is received on your mobile or computer. 
 
 If you come across any person using E-wallets or fake applications, immediately inform police 
 
 There will be a little difference between the actual logo and the fake or dummy logo created by miscreants. One should keep an eye on it. 
 
 
