NEW DELHI: Effecting a major reshuffle in the party,   president   on Friday handed the key charge of party organisation to senior leader and general secretary  , removing Janardan Dwivedi who held the post for over a decade. 

 Gehlot, general secretary in charge of   affairs, will now hold the portfolio of general secretary in charge of 'organisation and training'. The former Rajasthan CM is among the few senior leaders seen as appreciated by Rahul. Dwivedi has held various posts in the AICC for the last three decades.
 
 Gehlot's shift from Gujarat saw the rise of Lok Sabha MP from Maharashtra Rajiv Satav, another member of the Congress GenNext. Serving as AICC secretary under Gehlot, Satav has been given charge of Gujarat affairs. Ironically, Dwivedi issued the press release announcing his replacement.
 
 Jitendra Singh, a key member of Rahul's core group, has been made in charge of Odisha. A former Union minister, the Rajasthan leader was earlier tasked with drafting the roadmap for rejuvenating the party in Odisha. It has ended   MP B K Hariprasad's long spell as AICC general secretary.
 
 Mahendra Joshi was moved out as chief organiser of Seva Dal and replaced by Lalji Desai.
 
 The major changes roughly complete the much-awaited makeover of AICC in terms of responsibilities of states and departments. Sources said the Congress Working Committee too would be reconstituted soon. The AICC plenary session this month authorised Rahul to form the new CWC, after it decided against holding elections to the apex decision-making body.
 
 It is to be seen where Dwivedi would be adjusted in the organisation. His ouster was speculated for the last four years since he kicked up a row during Lok Sabha polls with a remark on  . According to Dwivedi, Rajiv Gandhi had told him that Priyanka was interested in politics from an early age and was a quick learner. The remark was seen as a jibe at Rahul who had emerged as the Congress face in 2014.
 
 Months after the election, his comment that  's victory was "a win for Indianness" triggered a big row with Congress even threatening disciplinary action. He later denied making the remark.
 
 
