NEW DELHI:   and   (TDP) will push for acceptance of their notices for 
  against the   government when   meets on Monday amid no signs of a let-up in the   deadlock.

 
 Y V Subba Reddy of YSR Congress wrote to the Lok Sabha secretariat to put his notice in the revised list of business for Monday. TDP has also moved a notice for a no-confidence motion, as parties like Congress, Left, Trinamool and RJD have come out in support.
 
 When their notices were not accepted last week, parliamentary affairs minister Ananth Kumar had said they could not be taken up due to the House being not in order, with members of several parties raising slogans in the well.
 
 With   (TRS) and AIADMK, which have often cooperated with the government on its legislative business, protesting over a host of issues, it remains uncertain if order can be restored in the lower House on Monday.
 
  
  
 
 While the first two weeks of the last phase of the budget session have been a washout, the government has managed to get some key bills and the budget passed amid din through a voice vote without debate.
 
 YSR Congress was the first to give a notice last week for a no-trust motion after the Centre made it clear that it would not grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Not to be outdone by its main rival in the state, TDP, a long-time BJP ally, then decided to break its ties over the issue and brought a no-confidence motion of its own.
 
 Both parties have been lobbying with opposition parties for support to their respective notices. A no-confidence motion notice has to be supported by at least 50 MPs to be taken up in the House. The government has expressed confidence that the notices, even if they are admitted, will be defeated given its strength in Lok Sabha, where the ruling   has a clear majority.
 
 The current strength of Lok Sabha is 539 (excluding the Speaker) and the ruling BJP has 275 members (including the Speaker and two nominated members) , more than the majority mark of 271, and enjoys the support of several allies.
 
