"It is a dream of every actor to perform in theatre and I hope to do a solo performance soon,” says actor  , while responding to queries on why he has launched a theatre production company. The engineer-turned-actor is confident about his new foray, the determination visible in his eyes. “I want to do my bit for theatre — an art form from where acting evolved. I want to know more about it and support the talents,” he explains.

 As the graph of his film career surges, Sunny’s motto now is to give back to the society through this “humble initiative”. He aims to bring good theatre and good talents to the forefront. “We cannot ever give up on theatre just because it doesn’t generate enough revenue,” he explains. His team is gearing up for the premiere of their first play, Moment Just Before Death, under his banner on June 10 in Kochi.
 
 Sunny, who also has an interesting line-up of films such as Kayamkulam Kochunni and French Viplavam, sits with us for a candid chat.
 
 
 
 
 There was no special reason. This question reminds me of my earlier days in film industry. Everybody used to ask me why films after engineering. I am a person who is learning through my experiences and I accidently watched an interesting play Moment Just Before Death, directed by Liju Krishna at Bengaluru and felt the need to support it. I thought it is a big miss if Malayalis don’t watch the play. 
 
 Cinema, the magical world where I belong, has evolved from theatre. This beautiful art has bonded us for centuries. I have only little knowledge about the world of theatre, but this project made me fall in love with its charm. When I probed, I got to know this globally-acclaimed play has never been staged in Kerala. So, I decided to join the youngsters behind it and bring it to our State.
 
 I don’t get any monetary benefit out of it. All I want is to be a channel that connects good theatre and people.
  
  
 
 
 I was initially a bit scared, then I remembered actor Siddique’s dialogue from  : “Nammukku pediyulla karyangal venameda nammalu kooduthal cheyyan (We should do most what we fear).”
 
 To my surprise, Siddique sir accompanied me when I unveiled the project to the world for the first time on Monday. I know very well that I am just a small fish in the ocean where many bigwigs and maestros have made their mark. It is an adventure and what is life without one.
 
 
 
 
 The interesting dialogues and aesthetically used lights, sounds and movements. In films, it is easy to go from past to present. For example, if we want to show an old man’s childhood, it is easy in films but that transition is tough in theatre. It’s sheer brilliance how they do that on stage.
 
 The play is a contemplation of a 70-year-old man in the last moments of his life. The subject may sound clichéd, but the treatment is unique. Bijibal has composed the music and it has a fantastic cast.
 
  
  
 
 The premiere will have many veterans from the socio-political and cultural scene of Kerala. It is interesting that I have only received positive response from the moment I decided to support the play and start the theatre production house. I first called director Rajeev Ravi and he was delighted to hear my decision.
 
 
 
 
 Henceforth, more and more plays of international standards will come to Kerala. I would like to bring back that idea of community living and socialising through art. Those beautiful little things that we used to have in our childhood — going to watch plays together and enjoying it with our family and friends. Nowadays we have given up on all of that and are confined to mobile phones, television and couches.
 
 Also, we have many proven Malayali directors in world theatre such as Abilash Pillai and Roysten Able. We even forget to recognise such gems. I want to create a platform for theatre here and let the world know that art will always be alive. I want to be the bridge between people and the wonderful art form. Theatre provides wholesome entertainment.
 
 
 
 I just returned from Sri Lanka after completing my portions in the mega project Kayamkulam Kochunni. I had 150 days’ shoot and I thoroughly enjoyed being part of it. Another film French Viplavam is in the post-production phase.
 
 
