MUMBAI: The anti-narcotics cell (ANC), probing the seizure of 80,000 tablets used as ‘soft drugs’ by addicts, especially some teenagers and college students, is now after the distributors. Alprazolam and Nitrazepam are being used as alternate drugs. “We have written to two pharmaceutical companies based in   and Bengaluru, seeking details of distributors. We will scrutinise the list of distributors and see who they sell/send it to,” said an ANC officer.

 DCP  , who heads the cell, said they are probing a case involving drug-sellers   and Nasreen  . The cell arrested the duo from Masjid Bunder and seized 80,000 tablets. Reshma was eight months pregnant when arrested last month, while Nasreen is a mother of four. Reshma’s husband works as an office boy in a private firm, while Nasreen’s husband is a cab driver.
 
 “Khan and Shaikh have admitted to selling drugs to customers, including around 25 students of south and central Mumbai colleges. But they don’t remember the students’ names. This is a serious trend among teenagers,” said a police source. The peddler supplying drugs to Reshma and Nasreen is on the run.
 
 Cops are trying to collect information about those who sell the drugs to college students. “This drugs are cheaper than other ones and are easily available but they are ruining society,” said Lande.
 
 “With consistent ANC operations, major arrests were made in 2017, and we busted two factories preparing Mephedrone (MD), also known as ‘meow meow’. Last year, we arrested Reshma’s father,  , and we found 110kg of ganja,” said Lande.
 
 Huge lots of tablets of these two drugs would come from pharmaceutical companies to distributors who would forward them to medical stores. Chemists should sell them to those with a proper medical practitioner’s prescription. “While we were searching for such medical stores, we got an address in Borivli. But our team found it was a residential house,” said an officer. Police indicated that if they found any distributor supplying the drugs to anyone illegally, they will be arrested.
 
