CHANDIGARH: Upholding an order given by a district consumer disputes redressal forum — which stated that innocent children, who aspire for better education, cannot be left to the mercy of ‘unscrupulous institution(s)’ by permitting them to usurp tuition fee taken in advance — a state consumer disputes redressal forum has turned down the appeal filed by a private school.

 The   has asked the school to comply with the order given by the district forum in December 2017, which said, “the order passed by the district forum, being based on the correct appreciation of evidence, and law, on the point, does not suffer from any illegality or perversity, warranting the interference of this commission.”
 
 The TOI had earlier reported that the district forum had directed the school to refund an amount of Rs 50,000 to the complainant with interest of 12% per annum, from the date of deposit that was July 8, 2014 till realization, along with compensatory cost of Rs 10,000 and litigation cost of Rs 5,000 for indulging into unfair practice.
 
 Complainant Poonam Awadh, a resident of  , filed a complaint in a district forum in November 2017 and said that she took admission in British School in Sector 44 of Chandigarh in Class XI in commerce stream for session 2014-15 and paid an amount of Rs 50,000 as advance fee for the whole year.
 
 She alleged that a week after she started attending classes, the school officials started pressurising her to take coaching at a private institute of their choice and harassed her as such, whereas she was not at all interested in taking additional coaching classes. She stated she brought this matter to the notice of her father, who was also shocked to know such malpractice adopted by the school.
 
 The father of the complainant took the matter with the school administrator, but this did not help much. Alleging that due to constrained and compelling circumstances created by school, the complainant pulled herself out of the school on July 10, 2015, which caused her mental and physical harassment.
 
 It was stated that she also requested the school for refund the fee charged by it in advance for full year, but they did not pay any heed to the request.
 
 After the district forum’s order on December 28, 2017, the school filed an appeal against the order in the state commission and said that the complainant never turned up to attend the classes at school. “A number of calls were made to the complainant to attend the classes, but she failed to attend any class,” the school said. It was further stated that the school never forced the complainant, to join any private institute for coaching classes, against her will. It was also said that no request for refund of the money paid in relation to admission was made by the complainant or her father.
 
 The state commission held that the school’s appeal was liable to be dismissed at the preliminary stage.
 
 
