NEW DELHI:   failed to transact any business for the second day running on Tuesday, with different opposition parties disrupting proceedings over the bank scam, a special package for   and constitution of the  . Even members of   ally Shiv Sena were seen in the well of Lok Sabha, demanding classical language status for Marathi. 

 Though the government said it was ready for a discussion on the bank scam and other issues, the opposition parties were unrelenting in their protests, with slogan-chanting and placard-waving MPs repeatedly trooping into the well of the two Houses.
 
 While the   and the Trinamool sought the prime minister’s response on frauds in the banking sector, parties from Andhra Pradesh persisted on their demand for special status for the state. The AIADMK demanded creation of Cauvery Water Management Board whereas the TRS raised slogans demanding a hike in Telangana's quota in reservation.
 
 In Rajya Sabha, both Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and deputy chairman P J Kurien repeatedly told the protesting members that they were ready to allow discussions on the issues being raised. Junior parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Goel said the government wanted a discussion because “the people should know the truth” that the bank frauds were not of recent origin. “Why is the Congress running away from a discussion?” Goel asked.
 
 In Lok Sabha, parliamentary affairs minister Ananth Kumar said the government was ready for a discussion on alleged irregularities in the banking sector and finance minister Arun Jaitley would reply to the debate.
 
 He said a notice for discussion on ‘alleged systemic irregularities in the banking sector over the years and its impact on Indian economy’ was given by N K Premachandran (RSP) and K C Venugopal (Congress) and it was listed for discussion in the day’s list of business.
 
 “Banking irregularities have been going on. It was happening even during UPA. Why are they running away from discussion? People who indulged in wrongdoing should be punished. Congress should discuss what unscrupulous activity (hera pheri) happened during UPA,” Kumar said.
 
 Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said fraud of thousands of crores in nationalised banks had resulted in loot of public money and the perpetrators were allowed to leave the country. “We need to discuss,” he insisted even as his party colleagues were seen in the well of the House.
 
 As the House continued to witness uproarious scenes, Speaker Sumitra Mahajan adjourned it till Wednesday. Rajya Sabha too witnessed similar scenes before being finally adjourned for the day.
 
 ends
 
 
