NAGPUR: After being exposed of adopting double standards, Nagpur University (NU) on Wednesday, allowed a National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) scientist to research for PhD from the institution he was working.

 NU’s submission was made before the Nagpur bench of  , after which a division bench comprising justices Vasanti Naik and Arun Upadhye disposed of the plea by  . He has applied for registration for conducting research in microbiology under the science faculty from NU.
 
 The petitioner, through counsel  , had knocked the judiciary’s doors after his application to pursue research from the premier research institute in the city was rejected by NU while indicating that Neeri wasn’t approved as a place of research in its list.
 
 He had cited a letter of June 15, 2016, by NU deputy registrar from its PhD cell, Umesh Wuikey, which informed him that his application for registration from Neeri was rejected as “it was not forwarded through approved place of research”.
 
 However, Kulkarni submitted a memorandum of understanding (MoU) inked in 2013 by then vice-chancellor Vilas Sapkal and ex-Neeri director  . The pact allowed NU PhD aspirants to pursue research from Neeri, as it was having advanced equipment.
 
 The lawyer argued that the premier institution was recognized as place of research in 2013, still NU officials deliberately rejected his client’s application in 2016. He further contended that Neeri was well recognized by prestigious institutions like University Grants Commission (UGC) and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for its projects.
 
 After realizing its blunder, NU submitted a letter in the court through its standing counsel Purushottam Patil that it would allow the petitioner to conduct research for his PhD thesis from Neeri.
 
 Earlier too, Datta had moved the high court after NU denied him chance to join its PhD course despite clearing the PhD Entrance Test (PET) in 2014. The HC then ruled in his favour stating that the duration of PET was five years as mentioned by NU in its rules framed initially.
 
