
Like an iceberg, the impact of the capital gains tax will be far more than the 10% that is visible on the surface, with the lack of indexation sinking the real returns for savers.
 
 You might resent this tax, or you may console yourself with the fact that it is a lot lower than the 30% income tax slab you are on. If it’s the latter, you may be getting ahead of yourself. This tax will cost you a lot more than 10% of your returns. You could actually lose 30-40 or even more, depending on how you invest.
 
 Over long periods, you will lose a lot more money because no equity investor is going to hold the exact same investments for such long periods. At some point, you will sell some of your holdings and buy something else. Given the structure of tax laws, capital gains would be taxed on each such switch, leading to less capital being available for compounding subsequently. The eventual impact would be quite large, but would differ for each investor depending on their buying and selling pattern.
 
 However, the   has made this tax deeply unfair by not allowing   indexation. Inflation indexation is allowed for every other form of long-term capital gains in India. It is a cornerstone of fair taxation that the government cannot ask you to pay a tax on values that increase because of inflation. Why is this principle being ignored in the case of this tax?
 
 On an average, equity returns are rarely more than 3-4% above inflation, so 10% of the full returns could easily be a minimum of 20-30% of the real, inflation adjusted return. In bad phases, it could be more than 100%. That’s right. If, for instance, your investing period happens to be one where inflation is 8% and returns are 6%, then the tax will more than 100% of your real returns.
 
 It should be noted that when this tax was in effect previously, before 2005, it had indexation. Can the   Minister explain why the indexation was dropped?
 
 There are three ways to slightly reduce this massive hidden impact. The first is obvious: don’t buy and sell frequently. Choose all-weather stocks that will stand the test of time so that your holding period is long.
 
 The second is to invest in mutual funds instead of buying and selling equity directly. A mutual fund investor can get the same returns but needs to buy and sell much less frequently. The trading is done inside the fund’s portfolio by the fund manager. However, as long as the investor holds on to the fund, there is no taxable event.
 
 The third method is marginally useful and would take some work. Since ?1 lakh of gains every year are tax free, at the end of every year, you could sell investments that would generate that much returns and immediately buy them again. It would save ?10,000 a year, which would compound in the future. It may or may not be worth your while to do this.
 
 Investors who are entirely dependent on the advice given by intermediaries like distributors and brokers inevitably have a high churn rate in their investments. In the new tax regime, this will be even more harmful to your eventual returns.
 
 I must re-emphasise that no one should mind paying 10% of real returns, but the compounding effect, along with the unconscionable lack of indexation makes this a draconian and self-destructive move
 
 
 
 
