TRICHY: When the state government and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) reached a consensus in February to establish a 45-metre-wide service road initially for the left-out stretch of the Trichy-Thanjavur section of NH 67, it was seen as a breakthrough of sorts. However, there has been no further development and deadlock continues in initiating and completing the land acquisition process without which   cannot begin construction works.

 Even though the Trichy-Thanjavur stretch of National Highways 67 was completed during 2011-12, a service road facility for a stretch measuring 14.5 km from   to Thuvakudi could not be completed. After much pressure, the state government in 2013 suggested to NHAI to lay the service road with 60 metres width. A sum of Rs 84.50 crores was also deposited by the state government towards land acquisition as the total cost of the project was estimated at Rs 196 crores. Subsequently, NHAI prepared a gazette in 2014 for laying the service road after land acquisition. However, when the state government made a U-turn by revising its proposed width to 45 metres, NHAI clarified that a service lane with less than 60 metres width was not viable.
 
 After years of deadlock, a review meeting was held in February this year attended by residents using the stretch, NHAI officials and Trichy MP, P Kumar. A consensus was arrived at to establish the service road with 45 metres width initially to be upgraded later to 60 metres. 
 
  Despite the consensus, various stakeholder departments claimed that there was no improvement in acquiring land for the proposed road. “Earlier, traders on the stretch approached Madurai bench of   seeking a stay on the service road works and the judgment on it is reserved. However, there is no legal hurdle to initiate the land acquisition process for establishing service road,” S Subramanian, chief organiser, Federation for Retrieval of Trichy-Palpannai-Thuvakkudi Service Road, told TOI. NHAI sources in Thanjavur Project Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for laying the road asserted that there was no progress after the review meeting.
 
 “A majority portion of the land required for 45-metre-wide service road belongs to government. If land acquisition works are expedited and completed, the service road will be made available in a few months. But unfortunately, there is no development in land acquisition to our knowledge,” NHAI sources said. Residents of   and Thuvakudi who travel in constant fear due to the absence of service lanes claim that the delay in land acquisition has been helping commercial establishments to sprout on the stretch which would escalate the cost of land acquisition.
 
 
