CHANDIGARH: Panjab University   members on Saturday came together, irrespective of their groups, demanding withdrawal of the affidavit filed by outgoing PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover in the   and   high court on governance reforms. This made Grover, who in the affidavit had raised concern over “groupism” in senate affecting the university, adjourn the meeting as soon as it began. All 13 members present in the meeting unanimously passed a resolution demanding withdrawal of the affidavit. 

 As soon as the meeting started on Saturday, and Grover began the discussion with item No C-20, syndicate member Prabhjit Singh stood up and said he along with other members of the governing body were disturbed with the affidavit Grover had filed in the high court. “Remarks in the affidavit related to groupism is not acceptable,” said Prabhjit in the House. He added that the draft of the governance reforms should have been discussed in the governing bodies first before filing it in the high court. 
 
 On the part in the affidavit where it is mentioned “that the graduate constituency, which elects 15 members in the senate, has reached such a state that one needs only 2,000-3,000 votes (i.e., about 1% of the total electorate and about 4% of the votes polled in a given election) to get elected,” Prabhjit said, adding thatif that was the case, then what had Grover done in the last five years to improve the voters list in graduate constituency. The members then demanded withdrawal of the affidavit to which, sources said that the VC said that he was not going to withdraw the affidavit.
 
 After this, another syndicate member said that when former PM   had come and the university had invited senate members, they were made to change seats repeatedly and some were not allowed to have tea with the former PM. Sidhu added, “We were treated like shit.” On this Grover said that this was unparliamentary language and walked out of the meeting. 
 
 Meanwhile, sources said since the V-C’s walking out of the meeting was nothing new, the House decided that senior syndicate member IPS (retd) G S Malhi to chair the meeting. As soon as the discussion on the agenda items resumed with Malhi chairing the meeting, Grover came from another door and announced that the meeting was adjourned. 
 
 
