KOCHI: The holiday season has started and the city witnessed heavy movement of vehicles and traffic congestion along the arterial roads. As the schools have closed after annual exams, families have started coming down to the city during weekends and on holidays.

 “The city receives unusually high volume of visitors travelling by private cars. Most of these vehicles come from neighbouring districts. We are forced to rope in the service of more personnel from traffic police, who are stationed at all key points in the city. The suburbs like Thevara see severe traffic congestion,” said ACP (traffic west) Nazeer M A.
 
 
 On Saturday, vehicles were moving at a snail’s pace through Edappally flyover. Motorists queued up at almost all major traffic signals in the city.
 
 The Kochi Metro and large shopping malls in the city have become major tourist attractions, and people from far off places come down to visit these places. Due to traffic blocks, people had a tough time finding cabs through online cab aggregators. As it took long time for these cabs to reach the commuters, the trips were being frequently cancelled. “Sometimes the drivers of the cabs cancelled the trip, and at times commuters cancelled trips. Though it indicates that a car is available at a nearby location it took long period to reach the destination because of traffic blocks,” said Praveen, a cab driver.
 
 Considering the heavy movement of traffic during the holiday season, the   Ltd (KMRL) had waived parking fees at all Metro stations, except Aluva and Edappally.
 
 But, to make this more effective, KMRL should also take the initiative to ensure frequent movement of feeder services. “Visitors coming down from other districts can park their cars at Metro’s parking lots located in the outer regions of the city. They can then ride on the Metro. The feeder services can provide further connectivity in the city. This will help bring down usage of private cars,” said a Kochi Metro official. The autorickshaws, buses and other vehicles, which are part of Kochi Metro’s feeder services, should be clearly marked.
 
 Moreover, the need to   on the by-roads and narrow lanes in the city is also highlighted.
 
 If the police are successful in restricting parking on by-lanes it will help vehicles to take a detour through alternative roads, and avoid arterial roads.
 
 “The Metro works are progressing at many parts of the city, including MG Road. If parking is prohibited along the bylanes linking MG Road, it will help in rerouting vehicles. The police can also check the possibility of introducing one-way traffic system on by-roads,” added the Kochi Metro official.
 
 Apart from the Metro works, ongoing road beautification and junction   and construction of flyover at   also add to the chaos on the city roads.
 
