CHENNAI: Catching the small fry and letting go of the big fish has brought the state   department under the Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s radar.

 The auditing body, in its latest report, rapped the commissionerate of food safety in   – the biggest state department of its kind in the country in terms of manpower – for limiting its role to just netting food business operators charged with small offences like misbranding and selling substandard items. Those charged with serious violations like manufacture and sale of unsafe food – those found containing harmful bacteria, viruses, parasites or chemical substances -- on the other hand, slip through because of official apathy.
 
 Under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, the commissioner of food safety, depending on the gravity of the offence, can refer the matter to a special court (for offences punishable with imprisonment for more than three years) or to a regular court (for offences punishable with imprisonment for lesser terms). In states without special courts, a regular court can take its place. Tamil Nadu did not have a special court till early 2017. The report noted that food safety authorities from 2014 to 2016 had failed to launch prosecution on offences punishable with imprisonment of more than three years on the ground that the government was yet to create the special court. This, the   observed, had given rise to an “anomalous situation”. “Food business operators charged with less grave offences are fined/prosecuted, while those accused of far more serious offences escape unpunished,” the CAG said.
 
 A senior food safety official refuted this by showing inspection and prosecution records of a few districts. In Chennai, for example, of the 969 samples lifted since 2011, 120 were found unsafe. Criminal proceedings were initiated against 117 food business operators, of whom 26 were convicted. However, a comparison between the conviction rates of civil cases (minor offences tried by the adjudicating officer) and criminal cases reveals that while for the former it stood at 71%, in the latter category it stood at 22%.
 
 One of the factors for poor prosecution, the reported pointed, was poor storage of evidence. It cited the example of a food safety officer who collected three samples of tea from an eatery in Theni. Officials usually collect four samples of food – one is sent to the state lab, second is sent to a referral lab if the alleged offender contests, and the third is saved if the results of the first two differ. The last one is saved for the court. In the Theni incident, when the eatery contested, the district officer found the remaining samples were damaged as they were kept in the open. No legal action could be initiated.
 
 Food safety officers TOI spoke to said inadequate storage space for evidence was a problem in many districts, including in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai, which have the highest manpower and eateries. Inspections also came under CAG’s scrutiny. The designated officer in some districts claimed “100% inspections”. However, the auditors refused to buy this claim as the department maintained no record to substantiate this.
 
 The auditor also rapped the state for not setting up a   as mandated under the Act to hear appeals on the decisions of the Adjudicating Officer for civil cases.
 
 
