NAGPUR: In a bizarre  , state board’s   and X students are studying almost similar topics in Math and Science this academic session. Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of a government-organized education seminar on Wednesday, principals pointed out that the new class IX curriculum includes   from   which has made things difficult for both students and teachers.

 For example, a class X Science chapter which talks about the functioning of kidney and nephron appears in class IX too. Similarly, the parts of chapter which talk about flow of electricity now find a place in class IX. There are many other similarities (see box).
 
 “Due to the new curriculum, the current class IX students have technically gone straight from class VIII to X. Teachers are complaining that there is no link between the existing class VIII textbooks and the new class IX. Teaching children is like climbing steps one by one, but here students have been asked to skip step no. 9.”
 
  
  
 School   told TOI that it is a “teacher-specific” problem and not to be “generalized”. “The upgraded class IX curriculum does contain topics which were usually taught at class X level, but it is a well thought-out initiative to increase the quality of education. Maybe certain teachers were uncomfortable as this requires personal academic upgrade as well. A majority of our teachers have accepted the curriculum,” said Tawde.
 
 Another principal said this development may result in more failures in class IX, something the education department is trying to prevent. “Education officials think that we deliberately fail students in class IX to maintain a clean record in class X. But, the problem is that the child lands in class IX without ever having to give an exam where one can fail too. This year’s curriculum is going to compound our problem,” she said.
 
 Tawde disagrees. “The semester exams have given encouraging results, so a fear of mass failures is unfounded. Ultimately, it is the teacher’s job to ensure that students are ready for the academic challenge,” said Tawde, adding that next year “we will have a new curriculum for class X which will ensure that kids are not studying the same topic”.
 
 The minister said the students were at the forefront when the curriculum was being upgraded. “Politicians did not design the curriculum, academicians did. The new curriculum was looked at from a psychiatric point of view, vetted by subject experts and approved by the board of studies that comprises teachers,” he said, adding that with the curriculum upgrade, the government hopes to bring   students on a par with those from CBSE and ICSE.
 
 
