KOLKATA: Fearing more building collapses on the East-Went Metro corridor, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Thursday revoked its own notification which urged the residents of four unsafe buildings to repair or demolish portions.

 
 TOI on Thursday reported that portions of one of the seven buildings identified by   ( ), implementing agency of the   corridor, as unsafe, collapsed on Wednesday, even before the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) could come near it. In the wake of the partial collapse, KMC spoke to some of the occupants on Thursday and asked them “not to touch their premises till the TBM passes by.”
 
  
  
 
 A part of the entrance of 4 Old Court House Street (on the   side of the building) had collapsed around 11am on Thursday, intensifying the challenge that these crumbling structures have been posing for the ambitious under-river Metro link that has already bored 520m across the  , passed through the most congested stretch of Brabourne Road, negotiating below some extremely ill-maintained buildings there, to reach the Dalhousie area.
 
 On 2 January, KMC issued a notification on some of these buildings to immediately repair and even demolish parts as and when required, under supervision of KMC empanelled structural engineers without changing the nature and character of the structures. KMC had also spelt a 15-day deadline which, ironically, ended on Wednesday —the day portions of one of the buildings identified by KMRC as unsafe, gave way.
 
 Realising that a “routine notice” at this crucial hour was hardly necessary, KMC engineers on Thursday said the notice would come into effect only after TBM Prerna, digging the Howrah-bound tunnel between Howrah Maidan and Esplanade, had a safe passage. “We pasted ‘dangerous’ and ‘unsafe’ boards on these buildings in a huff, understanding the precarious condition of the buildings. Now, if something goes wrong (read building collapses), nobody can point a finger at us,” a senior building department official said.
 
 In fact, KMC is only involved in data-sharing. It has submitted information regarding the depth of foundation of 4 Old Court House Street, which is relatively modern, as Afcons-Transtonnelstroy (the construction company building the twin East-West Metro tunnels) wanted to ensure that the pillars of the building were over the TBM’s depth of 18m.
 
 The building department official clarified: “At one of the several meetings with KMRC, Mayor  , made it very clear that the KMC would have nothing to do with evacuating or strengthening of any other direct activity vis-à-vis the unsafe buildings.”
 
 On Thursday, Prerna drilled closer to 4 Old Court House Street after crossing 10, 9 and 8 Old Court House Street. Its will reach 4 Old Court House Street in four days.
 
