In the latest episode of  ,  , Sodhi and Dr. Hathi rejoice as they learn that   is off to Lonavala water park with his family. They thank   for this piece of information.

 Jethalal tells them that now the scooter would be back by afternoon, before Bhide comes. They go to the temple to thank God. This reminds Mehta of Akbar and Birbal's old story which had the famous quote "This too shall pass". He explains the meaning to Jethalal, Sodhi and Hathi. 
 
 They decide to celebrate the occasion as they are very happy. Jethalal decides to write the 'Thought of the day" on the society's board. They then plan to go and eat out. Just then, Babita and Iyer walk in after their jogging session. 
 
 They exchange a few words and have a hearty laugh. Jethalal then tries to impress Babita Ji by explaining her the meaning of the quote written on the board. It is the same that Mehta had told him - "This too shall pass". 
 
 While Jethalal is doing that, Bapu Ji comes and asks him why he didn't go to the godown. Jethalal lies and tells him he has to go the next day due to last minute cancellation by the driver. Similarly, Komal and Roshan, too, arrive on the scene. They are also surprised to see Dr. Hathi and Sodhi there.
 
 When they inquire, Sodhi tells them that the car, he was supposed to repair, hasn't arrived in the garage. Dr. Hathi tells his wife that his patient is better now, so they asked him not to come. Iyer points out that all three of them had to go somewhere and then it all got cancelled together. This makes Bapu Ji suspicious and he asks Jethalal if everything is okay. 
 
 Jethalal assures him all is well. After he leaves, Jethalal tells them that they can all relax and go to have Rajbhog Mahathali. They all are ready to go but just then they are wished by Bhide from his balcony.
 
 Bhide then finds his scooter missing from the compound and creates panic. This makes Jethalal, Sodhi and Hathi nervous. They decide to leave but Mehta stops them. He tells them this would make Bhide suspicious.
 
 Mehta comes down and begins to run around, looking for his scooter. This makes the kids worried and they fear the consequences of their action. 
 
 Keep watching this space for more updates on Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah.
 
