Rajkot: In the rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl by her 15-year-old stepbrother in Jamnagar, property dispute is the reason behind the gruesome crime, the police said.

 The victim’s share broker father Chetan Kalyani, her daughter Nehal Kalyani from first marriage and the minor accused arrested for the crime told the police on Saturday that they had tortured the girl to pressurize her mother Rekha Kalyani — who had left home for her native in Hubli, Karnataka — to return to clear her name from the property. 
 
 “The house where the Kalyanis live is in the name of Rekha and without her consent Chetan was unable to sell it off. As Rekha had left Chetan after she was allegedly subjected to torture by him, the trio started torturing the minor girl to put pressure on Rekha. The minor girl was eventually raped and murdered by her stepbrother,” an investigating officer said. 
 
  (name changed) was arrested on February 13 for rape and murder of the girl. The victim was the Chetan’s daughter from Rekha, whom he had married 10 years ago after his first wife Pooja died.   and Nehal are Pooja’s children.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police Umesh Patel told TOI, “In his statement, the juvenile accused told us that Chetan used to regularly beat his daughter, brand her and kept her hungry for days. The victim was studying and living at Kanta Vikas Gruh, a girls’ boarding school. Rekha left the house for Hubli after a quarrel with Chetan. On October 14, Chetan and Kishore brought the victim back from hostel and stopped her schooling. They brutalized her to put pressure on Rekha to return home.”
 
 On Thursday, the police detained Chetan and Nehal for questioning after they returned from Karnataka, where they had gone to bring back Rekha. Also, Kishore was sent to a remand home in Rajkot following the order of a local court.
 
 On February 12, Kishore first raped her stepsister, thrashed her with a cricket stump and later smothered her with a pillow in their house in   locality.
 
 
