BENGALUR: Three years after the launch of MobileOne, Karnataka’s first citizen service mobile platform, the application remains largely unused, with people either finding it user-unfriendly or simply not aware about it.

 Soon after it was launched on December 8, 2014 by then President Pranab Mukherjee, about 3lakh smartphone users downloaded the app, but today, there are just about 50,000 active users, according to data provided by the state e-governance department.
  
  
 The   government had launched the unified mobile platform, which was later certified by Internet and   (IAMAI), as the world’s largest multi-channel mobile services platform to offer over 4,500 services. Using the app (available both in iOS and Android Play Stores), people could pay utility bills and property tax, book railway and bus tickets, file income-tax returns, apply for passport, driver’s licence, and also pay traffic fines. But the application failed to engage users for more than six months. 
 
 An expert committee was recently formed to identify the shortcomings. Based on usage, end-user feedback and expert reviews, the committee found the app too gloomy in appearance, generic and user-unfriendly. 
 
 “Though they have to pay transaction charges, people are comfortable with private apps like Paytm, as they are simple to use. MobileOne, which is built on proprietary software, is a little cumbersome to use. Moreover, there is absolutely no awareness about the services offered through this app, particularly in rural Karnataka,’’ said Sunil Panwar, director of   (EDCS).
 
 Without losing hope, the e-governance department has put forward a grand plan to revive the app and relaunch it in the next few months in a new avatar. Rajeev Chawla, additional chief secretary, department of personnel and administrative reforms (e-governance) is mounting the revival, based on user experiences.
 
 “We have invested around Rs 40lakh to Rs 50lakh to give the app a facelift and make it user-friendly, on par with other private apps. Services which have a utilization below 20% in a month will be removed in the new version, and more payment gateways, including BHIM UPI, will be added to allow users to pay for their transactions in a hassle-free manner, and without transaction charges. Apart from introducing search option and GPS to make it easy to use, we plan to implement e-signs for various services on the platform, to ensure paperless governance. We will also look to create more awareness targeting both the rural and urban population,” Panwar said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
