AHMEDABAD: A stressful life is the order of the day for most of us, and we have to literally steal time to be with our families and connect with friends and loved ones. Battling a similar situation, several chemists across Ahmedabad recently took a collective call to shut shop before 11pm to be able to make time for their families. The decision has been taken by chemists associations in areas such as Satellite, Thaltej, Gurukul, Sola   and Bapunagar, among others.

 “Our shop is usually open till 12.30-1am and it is difficult to spend time with family, as we begin work as early as 8.30am. Recently, the issue was raised in a meeting of our association of chemists in Satellite area and we collectively decided to shut shop before 11pm every day,” said Vikas Shah, owner of a medical store in Satellite area of the city. There are some 45-50 medical stores in the area.
 
  Similarly, some 65 medical stores operating in Thaltej and Gurukul, 60 in Sola, 42 in Vastrapur and some 190 in Bapunagar, have also taken a similar collective decision, said a member of Ahmedabad Chemists Association (ACA). State food and drug control administration (FDCA) officials said that if a medical store remains open during night hours, there has to be a qualified pharmacist present at the store. “If it is a 24-hour chemist shop, we expect at least three pharmacists to be employed by the medical store. The idea is to have a qualified pharmacist under whose supervision medicines are sold,” said H G Koshia, commissioner, FDCA –  .
 
 When asked about altering the timings, Bhupendra Patel, an ACA member and a chemist based in Thaltej, said, “It is difficult to make time for family and we hardly get to see our kids with such hectic timings. As such, most of our shops remain open for more than 12 hours and therefore, there isn’t a problem if we shut down an hour or two early.”
 
 Jashvant Patel, chairman of Gujarat State Federation of Chemists and Druggists (GSFCDA) said, “With most private hospitals having in-house pharmacies, standalone medical stores hardly do business during night and therefore, there is no point in keeping stores open.”
 
 
