COIMBATORE: The GRG school of management studies (GRGSMS), one of the very few exclusive business schools for women in the country, celebrated its silver jubilee year by launching a coffee-table book in association with the Times of India in the city on Wednesday. 
 
 “The book documents the journey of the institution in empowering young women not only to become successful business leaders and entrepreneurs but also to enable them to lead their lives with professional will and humility coupled with knowledge,” said one of the management members. 
  
 G Rangaswamy, managing trustee of the institution said, “Students are the torchbearers of values of the institution and should uphold these values and make it proud. Alumni act as ambassadors of the institution.” 
  
 Talking about the growth of the institution in the past 25 years, R Varadarajan, director of   said, “Women-centric institutions have more challenges and that is where GRGSMS has been successful in producing not only business leaders but good human beings.” 
  
 K A  , secretary and director of   said the gap between industry and academics is one of the major issues in Indian education system. “By adapting and changing the syllabus on par with the industrial developments, GRGSMS has become one of the best in the world,” he said. 
  
 K Ramasamy, the chief guest of the event said that students should never be let down by failures and always endeavour to innovate with a lot of passion. 
  
 P  , deputy general manager of The Times of India said in GRGSMS out of the 1,500 students, who have passed out of the institute, 10% have become entrepreneurs and 50% are professionals in various industry verticals. “From their humble beginning in 1993 and their journey from there on, the coffee table book covers every aspect of the institution. This book portrays the vision of the founders, their drive to empower women and turn them into eminent personalities. It also talks about the challenges faced by the management and its faculty,” he said. 
  
  
