KOLKATA:   Road near Alipore, barely a kilometre from the   court and the DGP's residence, turned into a battlefield late on Wednesday as supporters of two local Trinamool leaders, wielding country-made revolvers, hockey sticks, and bamboo, had a free-for-all for an hour till midnight. The fight, apparently over the control of a recently evacuated vacant plot in the neighbourhood, left at least 15 people injured and five vehicles and nine two-wheelers vandalized. 

 Cops from the   and the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department have so far arrested 15 people, booking them for attempt to murder, rioting and under the provisions of the Arms Act. 
 
 The clash broke out a little after 10pm, when residents of Gopalnagar and those living close to   were startled to hear hear a loud commotion nearby, with groups yelling at the top of their voices. Soon, they heard something which sounded like furniture being shattered and hurled at each other. Within 10 minutes, recalled 70-year-old Chhabi Das, explosive noises filled the air, of people vandalizing and smashing cars and bikes. Later, it turned out an ambulance, three private cars, a taxi and nine two-wheelers were wrecked, the police said. One of the injured, Saheb Rajak (30), suffered severe head injuries. 
 
 According to the police, the warring men have their allegiance to two Trinamool leaders Pratap Saha and Biplab Mitra. Allegedly close to a south Kolkata minister, Saha had in November 2014 led a mob attack on the Alipore police station, while Mitra, president of ward 74, is an old-timer in Trinamool, perceived close to leaders at Hazra and Bhowanipore. Though both leaders declined comment, they accused the other of orchestrating the attack. 
 
 The police said most of the accused were residents of Karl Marx Sarani, suggesting a number of outsiders were "deployed" to carry out a supposedly planned attack on ward 74 Trinamool party office around 10.30 pm. Local Trinamool members as well as the police pointed out that though enmity between the two factions had been brewing, the immediate trigger were primarily two reasons: one, the tussle to control a recently evacuated vacant plot in the Gopalnagar-Chetla Haat area and some Saha loyalists joining the Mitra camp.
 
 "Around 50 of us were sitting at the party office on  . My father, Biplab Mitra, was sitting near the TV, when around 100 of Saha's men barged in on us. Someone assaulted my father with a revolver butt. He had to receive stitches. I was beaten up so severely that my right arm fractured. One of our supporters, Rajak was brutally attacked on his head. He was hot so hard that blood would not stop flowing, even after being taken to SSKM Hospital. We put up resistance, but they returned at least thrice," claimed Ayan, Mitra's son.
 
 A close associate of Saha claimed their leader was injured in the attack and the boundary wall of his house was completely demolished.
 
 
