GURUGRAM:   in Sector 43 has come under the scanner of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) for allegedly violating the approved building plan by turning common areas and parking lots into offices, medical rooms, cafeteria, patients’ lounge, pharmacy and even a toy shop.

 The enforcement wing of DTCP, which inspected the hospital, claimed these encroachments have compromised safety of the building. The department has issued a notice to the private hospital and given a week’s time to remove the encroachments on its own and submit an action-taken report, failing which the DTCP will initiate legal action against it.
 
 A   spokesperson confirmed that the hospital received a notice from the DTCP. 
 
 “Our hospital premises have been built as per the building norms. There have been some changes in the infrastructure to accommodate new technologies. 
 
 Supporting structures have been made to accommodate the new specialty equipment. We will be reverting to the authorities with a detailed response shortly,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The DTCP has issued the notice acting on a complaint filed in January by an elderly person who visits the hospital very frequently.
 
 District town planner (enforcement)   confirmed to TOI that the complaint alleged the hospital authorities converted a common area on the ground floor and parking lots in the basements to set up commercial facilities. 
 
 “Such steps will create problems for the general public at the time of emergency like earthquake. Moreover, medical stores and other facilities in the basements are prone to catching fire, and in turn, could trigger mishaps,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on other violations, assistant town planner (ATP)   said the hospital authorities have erected multiple entry and exit gates in the “setback area” and built an illegal access to a neighbouring guesthouse, violating the building plan. 
 
 At the ground floor, the common area has been encroached upon by a pharmacy, a patients’ lounge, a counselling room, a toy shop and a cafeteria. The basement (level-I), which is a designated space for parking lot, has been completely converted into a habitable facility, which houses offices, a canteen, an insurance office and facilities for other activities related to the hospital.
 
 In the basement (level-II), which was also earmarked for a parking space, a medical store, non-medical rooms and a record room have been constructed.
 
 ATP   said DTCP had given licence to Ansal Properties & Infrastructure Ltd for a health centre in C-Block, Sushant Lok-I in Sector 43. As per the subsequent approval, the basements of the hospital should have been used to set up parking lots. “These spaces have been encroached upon in violation of licence conditions and zoning regulations. The violations were carried out after the hospital authorities got the occupation certificate in June 2006,” he said.
 
 
