BENGALURU: The   government has, time and again since it was first installed in 2013, been forced to beat a hasty retreat on big-ticket projects and legislations. Last week’s decision to withdraw the proposed amendment to the Karnataka Tree Preservation Act, 1976, is the latest in a string of such rollbacks. The government withdrew the proposal suo moto after it had threatened to snowball into a major political controversy following an outcry from green activists and the public.

 TOI samples cases of projects and legislations which were shelved after similar opposition from the public.
 
 
 
 
 Barely months after Siddaramaiah's government rode to power, it decided to introduce the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments (Amendment) Bill of 2014. The stated aim was to streamline the functioning of mutts and religious institutions, many of which were constantly involved in controversies over administrative scandals and financial scams.
 
 However, following stiff opposition from the  , JD(S) and even from within the ruling   itself, the government decided to withdraw the bill and shelve it permanently. One of the political fallouts — exploited by the opposition — was the perception that the Siddaramaiah government was “anti-religious”.
 
 
 
 
 In January this year, a letter from the DGP to police commissioners of Mangaluru, Belagavi and 21 other superintendents of police in different districts turned into a political nightmare for the Siddaramaiah government. In the letter marked urgent — the letter was written on December 22, 2017 and a reminder sent on January 2, 2018 — the DGP had sought the opinion of police commissioners and SPs on withdrawing cases against “innocent” people of a minority community, who were booked for allegedly being involved in communal riots in the past five years. The proposal ran into stiff political opposition, and the government was forced to retract the circular and issue a fresh one asking commissioners and SPs to give their opinion on withdrawing cases against those persons of all communities “perceived” to be innocent in communal riot cases. The BJP accused the Congress of being a “minority appeasing” party. Home minister   tried to defend the circular, citing that it was done keeping the Justice Sachar committee report in mind. The committee had studied the social and economic background of the Muslim community in India.
 
 
 
 
 The government appeared to have forgotten the old adage of once bitten, twice shy as it attempted to regulate mutts and religious institutions four years after its first failed attempt. A public notice earlier this month, seeking the opinion of people on whether the state should take complete or partial control of the religious mutts, temples and other institutions in Karnataka, courted much controversy. The matter became such a political hot potato that Siddaramaiah himself had to clarify the government’s stand in the legislature, despite the presence of the Muzrai minister Rudrappa Manappa Lamani.
 
 “We had issued the public notice in good faith, based on the HC division bench order of 2000 which directed the government to either set up a religious commission or any other body it deems fit to oversee the affairs of religious mutts, temples, trusts and other institutions,” Siddaramaiah said. “However, seeing the opposition from the public, we have decided to withdraw the proposal. The government does not, and will never, intend to take control of religious institutions in the state.”
 
 Since it came hot on the heels of the circular seeking to withdraw criminal cases against members of a minority community, the BJP sought to make political capital of the government’s discomfiture by projecting the Siddaramaiah government as “minority appeasing” and “anti-majoritarian”.
 
 
