MUMBAI: Doctors at JJ Hospital in Byculla performed a complex   to save the life of a 33-year-old   from Nashik, who was impaled by a 4ft long iron   that pierced his torso while working at a  . With the rod—that entered his body through the groin, perforating his intestines, liver, abdomen and chest before coming out of the back— the man journeyed a 200km bumpy ride from   to Mumbai in search of a hospital to remove it.

 Sheikh’s family could not make use of the state’s decorated free ambulance scheme as they were not informed about it. His mother Naseem said they paid Rs 5,500 to hire a private ambulance to get him to Mumbai. “With great difficulty, we raised the money from his friends and coworkers, all daily wage labourers,” she said. 
 
  
 On March 8, while working at a construction site in Lasalgaon, Sheikh slipped and fell from a height of 7ft on an iron rod that was jutting out of concrete pillars. His co-workers cut the iron road to detach him from the pillar. With the residue rod still inside him, they rushed him in a van to the nearest primary health centre at Niphad, 15km from Lasalgaon. He was given basic treatment and referred to  . His co-workers again put him in the van and rushed him to Nashik, a distance of 50km. At the hospital, the doctors said they were not equipped to tackle such a case and suggested he be taken to Mumbai.
 
 Naseem said nobody at the PHC or at the hospital told them about the 108 free ambulance service.
 
 Sheikh traversed 200km in over six hours in the ambulance, seething in pain. “The rod that was protruding at the back of his collar bone didn’t allow him to lie evenly inside the ambulance. We bought an inflatable pillow and placed it between the rod and his head. But everytime, we would hit a pothole or a speedbreaker, he would scream in pain. He was in and out of consciousness and pleading us to save him,” Naseem recollected with tears in her eyes. Now that Sheikh is out of danger, conscious and talking, Naseem said he was extremely lucky to be alive. JJ doctors, who removed the rod last Friday, said the surgery was meticulously planned using both open and laparoscopic techniques. 
 
 This was the second incident in two months when a labourer was impaled by rods and successfully saved. In January, Rajendra Kumar Mal (21) from West Bengal was impaled by two 12-mm iron rods after he fell into a pit at a construction site at Nariman Point. GT Hospital doctors said Mal is on his way to complete recovery.
 
 
