MUMBAI: In a major boost to the state's coffers, the   has upheld the validity of a recent law which permits the collection of premium, transfer fees and a share of profits over a change of assignment of plots taken on lease from the government. What the new law says is that a lessee can transfer his leasehold rights to someone else, but with permission and at a premium. In effect, the state gets a share of the 'unearned income' of any such transaction. 

  "The public interest and public revenue cannot be sacrificed by allowing government lands to be used and occupied for decades together, but without any benefit or income to the state," the HC said. "The terms and conditions of allotment cannot be static. They can be modified depending on market factors as well." 
 
  
  
 
  The HC construed two provisions of a 1966 law-the   ( )-harmoniously to hold that lessees of public land cannot be allowed to exploit the full potential of the land with no benefit to the state. 
 
 Among the aggrieved leaseholders who moved the HC were HUL, Glider Buildcon Realtors, Mangla Hospitality and Arvind Properties.
 
 The landmark May 3 ruling by a bench of Justices S C Dharmadhikari and Bharati Dangre is significant as it allows the state to charge hefty amounts every time a lessee who has leasehold rights over government land signs away his or her rights over the plot fully or partially to another person. The state has leased out thousands of government plots to institutions, individuals and housing societies on short- or long-term leases of 30-99 years and beyond. It also owns vast stretches of foreshore lands-lands under water-which can be leased or have been leased.
 
 By amending the MLRC in 2016, the state changed lease conditions of even old leases to ensure that lessees seek permission before giving development rights or lease rights to other people. The HC, by upholding the validity of the amendment, opens the door for the state exchequer to earn thousands of crores of rupees, given the large number of lands leased across Maharashtra, said a government lawyer.
 
 Many leaseholders of prime plots in Mumbai had moved court last year and this year against the state demanding amounts running in the hundreds of crores as its "50% share of unearned income". Unearned income is what a lessee earns from giving rights over a leased plot, which is akin to a profit that the government has not earned.
 
 A few builders and lessees challenged the constitutional validity of section 295 introduced in 2016 into the 1966 law. Leaseholders said the amendment was discriminatory, arbitrary and retrospective as it sought to change the very conditions of even existing old leases. It imposed a new obligation to seek prior permission of the collector and payment of premium over unearned income and transfer fees. It was also contrary to section 37A of MLRC introduced in 2015, argued the petitioners, who called it void because it would be in conflict with contracts and property transfer laws.
 
 
