KOLKATA: The latest All-India Council for Technical Education data show that the percentage of   seats in   and technology   across   has increased from 28% in 2012-2013 to 42% in 2016-2017.

 
  
 The sharp rise in the vacancies that the data have thrown up is an indicator of the poor quality of infrastructure and teaching at the state’s private engineering colleges, say academics, which prompts the migration of thousands of students to technology colleges in other states. There has been a “mindless” increase of seats at a time when interest in technical courses may be on a decline, feel senior engineering teachers.
 
 The number of vacancies has jumped in some other states as well but they are still smaller than Bengal’s. In Karnataka, which has been a hub of engineering colleges for more than a decade, the vacancy in 2016-2017 is 24%, marginally above the 2012-2013 vacancy of 22%. Delhi recorded an 18% vacancy in 2016-2017 and Assam had a vacancy of 35%.
 
 But there are also states that have an even greater percentage of vacant engineering college seats than Bengal. Uttarakhand had 67% vacancies, Punjab had 62%. “All the states that have so many vacant seats have the same problem of both quantity and quality,” a senior Jadavpur University engineering faculty member said. 
 
 “There is a huge glut of supply, which is much more than the demand Students have also given a thumbs-down to the quality of education,” he added.
 
 State higher education department officials explained that the economic model of many private colleges, too, made the entire system unsustainable. “The minimum annual expense, covering tuition fees and a few other things, behind every student in JU’s engineering faculty would be around Rs 2 lakh. The cost of other infrastructure would be much more. I do not think it will be possible for too many private engineering colleges to give quality education when the economic model is like this,” a senior official said.
 
 JU Construction Engineering faculty member Partha Pratim Biswas said the “diminishing scope of placements, caused by stagnation in the market”, too, was to blame. “Job opportunities have remained the same over the past one decade. Adding seats every year without looking at the pattern of industry demand will lead to greater vacancies. But why did the AICTE give so many approvals on the basis of just physical infrastructure and teacher strength?” he asked.
 
 Some state technical education wing officials, however, insisted that vacancy in technology courses was a growing trend everywhere. “Besides Uttarakhand and Punjab, Kerala, too, has a vacancy of 40%. The situation is grim even in Gujarat, where the vacancy percentage has risen from 16% in 2012-2013 to 46% in 2016-2017. Tamil Nadu has the highest number of technology seats available due to the proliferation of private engineering colleges. The vacancy there is 48%,” an official said, explaining that this was part of an all-India trend.
 
  (MAKAUT) vice-Chancellor Saikat Moitro claimed that the number of vacances was actually not so high in Bengal. Many seats are later taken up by engineering aspirants in the second year through lateral placements,” he said.
 
 
