LUCKNOW: Severe confusion and commotion marked the much hyped   for liquor vends in the state with software glitch leaving officials and applicants stranded all through Thursday.

 The excise department failed to hold the draw despite making elaborate arrangements. Tension mounted as traders shouted slogans against officials for being made to wait from 11am to 9pm without any takeaway.
 
 “The department had announced to hold lottery on March 5. It was deferred. Their system collapsed today and officials are trying to cover up their negligence. They did not inform when it will be held now,” said Sardar SP Singh, chief of liquor traders’ association in Lucknow.
 
 
 Hundreds of applicants had gathered at   in Dalibagh since morning for the draw and crowded around large screens put up to relay the results. 
 
 
 
 The auditorium was packed to full soon and applicants had to jostle for space. The draw was scheduled to begin from 11am after mock trial. However, the IT company engaged by the excise department expressed its inability to conduct the draw.
 
 With their patience running out, harried traders vented out their frustration by booing excise officials. The ill prepared excise department had not even tested the software beforehand and the draw could not be held.
 
 District excise officer, Santosh Kumar Tiwari said, “The software was not running since data entry in three districts was incomplete. As it was a pan-UP draw, the centralized software failed to work.” The traders got irritated on seeing excise department officials sipping tea around 5pm and they started singing the national anthem, forcing them to put their cups aside and stand on dais.
 
 Soon after taking over, BJP government had assured action against the syndicate of some liquor traders who were calling the shots and pushed only limited brands. The department decided to introduce e-lottery to select applications randomly out of thousands of entries. It formulated a new liquor policy to end monopoly in liquor retailing and mooted   licences instead of zonal ones after scrapping special excise zones. The excise department received a total of 17,956 applications for total 904 shops, comprising 508 country-made liquor shops, 177 English wine shops, 168 beer shops and 51model shops.
 
 “Though thousands had applied, excise department did not make   for more than 800 persons. It was very disappointing,” said KL Maurya, an applicant. In Faizabad, lottery process for 349 liquor shops and 2 model shops could not even start as the server went down.
 
 
