The episode starts on a jolly note with the whole family engaging in dance and celebrations. While Naira and   have a moment during the dance, Kirti remembers Naksh .Meanwhile, amidst all the celebratory mood, Dadi’s bag falls on the ground which ends up hurting Naira. Finding the necklace on the ground and seeing the expressions on Dadi’s face, Surekha comes forward and apologizes.

  Meanwhile, we see Kartik is on his way and Dadi leaves for her house, saying that the mahurat for the pooja will get over soon. Hence, they leave Naira behind, who wants to spend some quality time with her father. Naira hugs Naitik and expresses joy.
 
 Later, we see Dadi is in dismay, thinking over the fact that she has done a bad thing by letting the shankh slip out. Surekha tries to comfort her. Dadi says that she will keep the shankh in Naira and Kartik’s room right away and seek blessings for a grandson and then switch it back to the Singhania household.
 
  Naira’s dad asks her whether everything is okay in her house and asks about Dadi’s mood and health. Kirti too is very excited to see Naitik and we see the gifts she brought along for Naitik. Naksh pulls Kirti’s leg for being her father’s pet and they have a romantic moment.
 
 Naira prepares to leave her home when everybody gathers and learns that the Shankh is missing. Devyaani asks Naitik if he knows about the missing Shankh. He says he does but he asks her not to inform Kirti and Naira about it. He says that Dadi took the Shankh from their house. Everybody, including Baaisa is disturbed. Manish and Suwarna have a discussion when she tells him to not lose hope.
 
  
  
  
  In the next scene, we see Dadi and Surekha eager to place the shankh in the bedroom before sunset but they haven’t been able to. Every time Surekha went, Kartik was present in the room. Naira comes back and thanks Dadi for letting her stay back. She asks what is Dadi holding in her hand. She quips and says it’s nothing. Then, Surekha distracts her saying that Kartik and Naira have to light the diyas together and must hurry. This gives Dadi the chance to place the shankh in their room. Will she be able to succeed in her mission? Keep watching this space for more such updates.
 
 
