Sixteen-year-old Yasheeta Sulakhe’s first brush with a writer took place when her brother fractured both his hands; a junior volunteered to be his writer so that he could give his exams without any hurdles. The experience left a deep impression on the Class 11 Arts student from Bhavan’s College, Andheri; it prompted her to volunteer as a writer for students with disabilities. “My brother’s injury helped me realise that you never know when you may require help,” she says. 
She’s not alone. There’s a bunch of exam writers, aka amanuenses, across campuses in Mumbai. With exam season on in full swing, BT met with these writers, who gave an insight into their world, the motivation behind the initiative and challenges faced by them...
 
 
 Not every writer is motivated by the noble idea of giving back to society what they received. Some of them choose to write for very practical reasons — from helping out seniors to meeting goals of social activities, which is a part of their curriculum.
 Says  , a FYBA student from St Xavier’s College, “Honestly, I took this up as a part of our social involvement program. This entails that I complete certain number of hours doing some socially-relevant work. I’ve only written two papers until now, but it feels nice. While I have chosen to be a writer due to moral obligation, with programs like these it becomes more self-persuasive. Engaging in these activities makes you realise how we tend to take our lives for granted; it’s a way of thanking God for what we have.” 
 Tanushka Nemani, another FYBA student from the college, adds, “I’ve been volunteering as a writer since I was in school. It’s become a habit now.”
 
 
 
 Be it time management, multi-tasking or some degree of communication gap, writers have to face their own set of issues too. They make use of Hinglish (Hindi and English), Minglish (Marathi and English) and repeat questions to ensure the examinee understands the question better. However, it’s not limited to just that. 
 Yohaann Jafrani, a TYBSc Life Science student from St Xavier’s College, shares, “I once wrote a history paper for an Arts student from our college, where I kept getting stuck with the spellings of historians. People who aren’t well-versed with a particular subject may not know the specifics; it is unfair that the examinee’s marks suffer because of this.” 
 An amanuensis can face limitations with subjects like accounts or science, where a student is expected to make balance sheets or use signs and symbols. Adds Tanushka, “I volunteered to write for a student from the computer science department. Since I am not familiar with the terms, it was slightly challenging. And to add to that, the paper was quite lengthy, too.”
 
 
 
 ‘Writing is an exploration. You start from nothing and learn as you go,’ goes a saying. And it’s no different for these students. Shares Yasheeta, “Writing for others offers you a new perspective and helps you see yourself in a different light. The experience motivated and helped me realise that I can do so much more in life.” 
 Kausar Madhiya, a SYBA student of Jai Hind College, says, “I am an aspiring psychology major student. When my professor asked me if I’d like to volunteer, I was initially hesitant due to my handwriting. She insisted that it has nothing to do with the quality of handwriting; the activity, instead, harped on empathy. Being a writer has helped in reinforcing psychology as my career choice.” 
  
  
 While most colleges ensure that the writers are junior by a year academically and have different sets of subjects, how do they avoid adding their inputs in case of a subjective answer? Says Shabnam Shaikh, a SYBCom student from Bhavan’s College, “I ensure that I write only what is being said. I don’t add my own words in the copy, nor do I point out what I know is incorrect. Most of them writing these papers know their purpose.” 
 Shraddha Joshi, a TYBCom student of RA Podar College, is candid enough to say that she does prompt some students under her, subtly. “I give them hints, like asking them to think again or if they are sure of their response. This gives them a chance to think over, which has worked on few occasions.” 
 On their part, educationists are ensuring that there is strict vigilance. Dr Agnelo Menezes, principal, St Xavier’s College, says, “We are training supervisors to spot fraud. For instance, when the student isn’t talking, but the writing goes on. That’s why we have started sending our senior-most staff members as supervisors.”
 
 
 
 Considering the student writer and the examinee end up spending many hours together — in coordinating on timings, exam halls and writing paper, they end up building a camaraderie that goes beyond work. 
 Adds Muskaan, “A friendly rapport develops between us during the dictation-writing drill, small talks as they mull over their answers and trips to the canteen for a cup of chai and snacks.” Says Shraddha, who has been volunteering for over four years, “There are times when we just call up to check on each other and attend seminars. I keep in touch with them when their results are out. When one of the girls I wrote for, scored first class in HSC exams, I was more excited than her. In a way, it’s also our exam!”
 
  
  
 
 
  There are no standalone committees for writers in colleges and in most cases, students from the NSS/NCC department volunteer. Students with disabilities feel there needs to be one to avoid paucity of writers and people walking out last minute.
 They feel that basic knowledge of a subject will help in avoiding wastage of time. Currently, on every hour of the exam, there are extra 20 minutes allotted to the examinee.
 Exam writers with legible handwriting. “The teacher faces problems in correcting the sheets,” says Shubham Gupta, a FYBA student (visually impaired) from St Xavier’s College.
 “In order to increase the number of people who volunteer, there should be a provision for anybody to write paper for us,” says Abhay Patil, a second year MA history student from   (MU), adding, “They can be strict during supervision as the answers are only dictated.”
 
 
 
 In most cases, the writer has to be the examinee’s junior, preferably from a different stream or with different subjects. However, a new circular issued by the government states that depending on the college, anybody can write for a student (including his/her parents).
 
 
 
