PATNA:   MP and national president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha ( ) Poonam Mahajan on Sunday said   would be the “bedrock” for the return of the BJP-led   government at the Centre in 2019.

 “What Bihar decides is taken up by the rest of the country. The function I am addressing here is unique. It is for the first time that the BJYM has organised such a function. Also, it is the first-of-its-kind in the country,” she said while addressing a ‘Jan Pratinidhi Samman Samaroh’ here.
 
 She praised state BJYM president and the BJP’s Bankipore MLA Nitin Navin for organising the function to felicitate elected representatives of the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs). The function was held at Bapu Sabhagar near Gandhi Maidan. Incidentally, the then Gujarat CM and BJP’s prime ministerial candidate   had addressed Hunkar Rally at Gandhi Maidan on October 27, 2013, when serial blasts rocked the ground.
 
 Earlier, Mahajan, the BJP’s MP from Mumbai North Central parliamentary constituency, received a rousing welcome during the road show from local airport to the venue of the function. She recalled the October 27, 2013, rally and a few other historical events like Champaran ‘satyagrah’ of Mahatma Gandhi (1917) and the students’ movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) in 1974 to bring home her point that it has always been Bihar that has decided the political course of the country. She added the Hunkar Rally of 2013 gave Narendra Modi the “decisive” leap.
 
 Mahajan, who had come to Bihar first time during the 2010 assembly elections, also established instant rapport with the audience, calling herself the “daughter of Bihar.” “I am daughter of Bihar whose people loved my father late Pramod Mahajan. When everyone had written off my victory in the 2014 parliamentary elections, it was the migrants from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP) who ensured my victory,” Mahajan said.
 
 Even as she called herself a ‘Marathi manush’, she criticised Maharashtra Navnirman Sena for its diatribes on people from north India. “If the contributions of Marathas have made Maharashtra proud, the contributions of migrants from Bihar and UP are also a matter of pride for the country,” she said.
 
 Mahajan said PM Modi had brought laurels to the country as he had been the first Indian PM to address the World Economic   at Davos (Switzerland) in recent years. She also recalled the pro-poor schemes of the Centre, especially for women.
 
 Mahajane hailed the first NDA government in Bihar for the grant of 50% reservation to women in the PRIs and urban local bodies. She praised CM Nitish Kumar for launching a crusade against social evils like dowry and child marriage.
 
 Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar, Mangal Pandey and the party’s state chief Nityanand Rai also spoke on the occasion. Modi said the central allotment of Rs 23,000 crore (2015-20) for the PRIs and ULBs was five times more than the amount sanctioned by the then UPA government.
 
 
