HYDERABAD: The   police have failed to take at least 543 cases of politicians bribing voters in the last general elections to their logical conclusion. In fact, many of the cases are either pending in the courts or charges are yet to be framed against the erring politicians.

 According to a   reply provided by the  , both Telangana and   failed to provide information to the EC regarding the number of cases booked against politicians for bribing voters.
 
 In Telangana, cases against seven prominent MLAs including PCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy and assemlby speaker S Madhusudhana Chary that were booked during the 2014 elections are yet to reach any conclusive stage. All the cases pertain to Section 171 B and 171 E of the IPC which deals with one-year imprisonment for bribing voters.
  
  
 In his reply to   for Good Governance secretary M Padmanabha Reddy on December 28, 2017, ECI under secretary and chief public information officer Mukesh Kumar said: “For quick disposal or logical conclusion of cases booked under Section 171 IPC during various elections, it has been decided to collect information, statistics from the chief electoral officers of all states, Union territories about the number of cases filed, disposed of and pending during the last five years."
 
 Telangana police failed to pursue to its logical conclusion 543 cases of politicians bribing voters in the last general elections. According to a RTI reply provided by the Election Commission of India, both Telangana and AP failed to provide information to the EC regarding the number of cases booked against politicians for bribing voters.
 
 The EC had sought information, statistics from the chief electoral officers of all states and union territories about the cases filed, disposed of and pending during the last five years. An ECI official said, “We have received information from only 18 states and Union Territories from chief electoral officers.”
 
 With Telangana and AP not providing the information, Forum for Good Governance (FGG), on its own, obtained information regarding the 171 IPC cases filed in the two states separately from all district superintendents of police after writing to each police station.
 
 The Forum had recently written to DGP of Telangana to expedite the probe, file chargesheet and bring the case against politicians to its logical conclusion. Incidentally, the case against Telangana Forest Minister Jogu Ramanna that was booked with Adilabad town police station has been closed by the police.
 
 According to FGG secretary Padmanabha Reddy, over 10,000 cases were booked for different offences and Rs 150 crore seized by the police in united Andhra Pradesh during the 2014 general elections. “The contesting candidates were distributing sums of money to bribe the voters. In the majority of 543 cases booked for bribery, there has not been any progress. Normally, it so happens that in very few cases, direct involvement of a candidate can be established as most of the time, party workers and agents distribute the money. When a case is booked, we observed that along with money, party literature and voter list is found and they are also seized. The party literature and voters lists will give enough clues to link the bribe to the contesting candidate,” he told TOI.
 
 Besides, said Padmanabha Reddy, the authorities are lenient with the politicians. ”Police registers case against a person who is distributing the money but enquiry to establish the link with the contesting candidate is not done. In few cases when the candidate is present while the money is being distributed, he is shown as A2 and A3,” he said.
 
 
 
