NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has withdrawn the strictures passed by it against   (NU) Pro-VC   last month after the latter admitted fault and assured to adhere to statutory provisions while granting approval for appointments.

 NU also informed the court that an inquiry had been initiated to fix responsibility. On December 4, HC had rapped the Pro-VC over his controversial decision to hand over the charge of officiating principal to librarian Uma Nahle at Wardha’s Swawlambi College of Education.
 
 HC had quashed Nahle’ appointment made by Yeole while ruling in favour of  , who was qualified for the post. The court had warned Yeole of stripping him of powers if he flouted the norms again.
 
 On January 19, a bench of Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Swapna Joshi granted relief to Yeole but with a rider. “We expunge all remarks of this court in order dated 4-12-2017. If such an error is again brought to the notice of this court, the remarks, sought to be expunged shall revive and carry their weight,” the order read.
 
 Adv PB Patil represented the university. Yeole needed the HC respite since he is likely to apply for the Solapur and Mumbai university VC posts, NU sources said. “HC strictures in Punse case would have posed a problem in even consideration of his application for the coveted posts,” they said.
 
 Though NU has submitted before the HC that it has initiated an enquiry to fix responsibility, officials refused to reveal names of their colleagues who are in line of the Pro-VC’s ire. Yeole didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 NU also informed the court that the VC and Pro-VC had taken “very serious” view of the lapses. “It is hereby assured necessary care and caution would be taken by the VC and Pro-VC to ensure the order and decisions were strictly in accordance with law. The university has also initiated an enqiry in the matter to fix responsibility for administrative deficiency in the matter and erring officers would be taken to task,” the application stated.
 
 Another reason cited by NU while seeking respite for Yeole was possible misuse of HC remarks. “The warning issued by the court and adverse remarks recorded against the Pro-VC are being utilized to unsettle administration by those interested in damaging the image and prestige of the university,” the application stated.
 
 
