AMRITSAR: After some gurdwara managements abroad banned entry of Indian consulates officials, which didn’t go down well within the Sikh diaspora, a clarification was issued that anyone, including officials of Indian consulates, could visit gurdwaras to pay obeisance. But some fringe elements continued to propagate this.

 “This has led to a major fallout on non-Sikhs, especially residents of those countries,” said   (NAPA) executive director Satnam  , on Saturday. He said, “One of my white neighbours used to think that gurdwaras are very liberal as anyone could go there but now this thing has ingrained in his mind that these have restricted entry.” He claimed that the genesis of the decision was due to alleged objectionable behaviour of some officials of Indian high commissions/embassies, which irked many Sikhs.
 
 
 US-based chairman of   Sukhi Chahal said, “The decision of some radical organizations that Indian government officials and any person representing the interests of the Indian government shall not be allowed to enter US gurdwaras or to participate in any religious programmes is deeply concerning, unfortunate and not in the favour of the Sikh diaspora.”
 
 He said the decision of the gurdwara managements had instead caused confusion among the Sikh community abroad. “There is a valid concern among the Punjabi people, who have taken asylum abroad, that they may face difficulties in getting Indian visas or passports due to the decision of these radicals organizations. The Indian consulate officials have been very helpful during some tragedies. We may not be in a position to ask for special or quick favours in future if they will be banned at our religious places,” said Sukhi. “I have not heard any incident, where any Indian government official may have caused any disturbance or may have spoken negative on any gurdwara stage.”
 
 Agreeing that the managements of gurdwaras do invite officials of the Indian consulates, American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (AGPC) coordinator   said, “We can’t allow gurdwara stages to be used for delivering the Indian agenda, so we have decided not to invite them any more. But in personal capacity, they are allowed to pay obeisance, listen to kirtan and perform sewa.” Asked whether the gurdwara managements’ decision could have adverse repercussions, he replied, “We will see when any such thing happens.”
 
 A prominent Indo-American Sikh, who didn’t want to be named, said the issue was the brainchild of pro-Khalistan groups, which didn’t like Indian consulates’ outreach to the Sikh community and talking of oneness among Hindus and Sikhs to promote brotherhood. “A handful of Sikh organizations, run by rich entrepreneurs having legal experts as well as aggressive ‘volunteers’ on their rolls, have their own agenda of dividing the two communities and reaping gains for themselves,” he said.
 
 A section of Sikhs in   have not only hailed the decision of the gurdwara management committees to ban the entry of Indian officials, they also want to spread it to rest of the Europe. Sikh Foundation, Switzerland, vicepresident   said they had already banned gurdwara platforms to be used for politics in Switzerland since 1999 and were going to initiate a similar movement in the rest of gurdwaras of Europe. When asked the reason behind the decision, he said, “There are people or their agents who indulge in dirty politics through gurdwara stages.”
 
