MUMBAI: Last year, the BMC   following a   in previous years. Now, it’s the reverse: it will withdraw Rs 2,744 crore from its Rs 69,135 crore   to fund projects proposed in the 2018-19 budget. The reason: the country’s richest municipal corporation is likely to struggle to meet its  .

 Officials blamed the current situation on the slump in the real estate market which brings in property taxes, coupled with a high court ban on construction on vacant plots because of its inability to handle garbage collection-disposal and resolve a property tax dispute.   is losing income from these two key sources.
 
 Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said, “The two issues are drastically affecting BMC’s revenue from property tax and development plan (DP) department (for building permissions, premiums, penalties or FSI). In 2014, BMC introduced a new property tax system, which was challenged in the court by citizens. The issue is pending in court, which allowed residents to pay half of the property tax that they were paying earlier. BMC is also not doing enough to resolve the garbage disposal issue. So, it has no other option but to use its savings.”
 
 Civic chief Ajoy Mehta admitted that BMC is losing income from these two sources. “We will use this money (from fixed deposit) to give a push to big long-term infrastructure projects. We have already linked (allotted) our fixed deposits to various long-term projects and decided to withdraw money for those specific works.”
 
 BMC has earned Rs 3,112 crore so far from the DP department, against its target of Rs 4,964 crore for 2017-18. With the revenue being at an all-time low this year, BMC has revised its target to Rs 3,576 crore.
 
 BJP group leader in BMC Manoj Kotak said, “There is no proper garbage management programme, because of which development projects are hanging. This is reflecting poorly on BMC earnings. BMC must focus on resolving the dumping ground and garbage issue to get construction and development work started.”
 
 
