MYSURU: Although it has been more than a year since   had a full-time   (V-C), it appears as though the state higher education department is unlikely to appoint one anytime soon. Highly placed sources within the department said that, though the   ( ) is keen to get on with the process, the V-C search committee in the state is delaying the process. “The new V-C is likely to be appointed only after the elections,” said the sources.

 The absence of a regular principal secretary of the higher education department has only served to compound matters further. Meanwhile, academicians and faculty at the varsity fear that the delay in the appointment of a full-time V-C will hamper activities at the university.
 
 Sources said that the state higher education department had been awaiting the announcement of a date for the meeting of the UGC V-C search committee. “First, it was assumed that the meeting might take place in the first week of January. But we have received no communication from the UGC in this regard. It seems as though the meeting will happen only after the elections are over, and the new government is formed,” said a source in the higher education department.
 
 UoM has been functioning without a full-time V-C since January 11, 2017 after   completed his term. The V-C search committee, led by the former V-C of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU)   Khincha recommended three names for the post in July 2017. However, the governor subsequently directed the search panel to recommend a fresh list of three names. But the committee is yet to meet in order to draw up the shortlist of three candidates.
 
 One of the search committee members   admitted to being unaware of the date of the next meeting. “Of the four members, three are in  , and can attend the meeting anytime it is convened. However, I cannot speak about the availability of the UGC nominee. There appears to be some delay in convening the meeting,” he told STOI.
 
 An official in the state higher education department pointed out that the absence of a full-time principal secretary was making it hard for them to pursue the matter seriously with the UGC.
 
 “After   retired as the principal secretary, the state government has not appointed a regular principal secretary. This is affecting the V-C appointment process,” he said.
 
 Academician and former V-C of Bangalore university MS Thimmappa dubbed the protracted delay in the appoitnemtnof full-time V-Cs to both the Mysore and Bangalore varsities the worst-ever crisis faced by the state higher education department. “Regardless of what differences of opinion there were, the governor should have resolved it. Bangalore University is facing a similar problem. This is going to affect the state higher education sector for a long time to come,” Thimmappa added.
 
 
