SURAT: Hundreds of textile traders from the 165 textile markets located on Ring Road, Salabatpura and Sahara Darwaja will participate in the 10-day campaign to clear water hyacinths from river Tapi and spread awareness among the residents to judiciously use water for their daily needs. 

 The campaign will kick start from March 25, where around 20 traders each from all the 165 textile markets will visit the upstream of river Tapi at   to clear water hyacinths and algae. 
 
 The   (SMC) has been grappling with the ever increasing issue of water hyacinth and the release of illegal sewage and industrial waste from villages and towns in the upstream of Tapi since last many years. The water hyacinth issue has aggravated as the huge swathe of river in the upstream of Singanpore is covered with the green bed of water hyacinth. 
 
 The civic body has started artificial aeration process around the intake well and the underwater fencing to increase the dissolved oxygen level and prevent the water hyacinth from choking the water treatment plants. For water to be of drinking quality, it must have less of carbon oxygen demand (COD) and biological oxygen demand (BOD), but higher dissolved oxygen demand (DOD). 
 
 Secretary of   (FOSTTA) Champalal Bothra said, “We have sent letters to all the presidents of 165 textile markets in the city seeking their participation in the Tapi cleanliness campaign. From each market we expect 20 traders to devote their time in the morning and evening hours to clean the river.”
 
 Bothra added, “People associated with textile trade in the city are huge in numbers and if they all will join the campaign, we could clean the river in just few days. The traders will not hesitate in giving their resources, including financial support, to keep the river clean.”
 
 FOSTTA leader   said, “Being the citizen of Surat, it is our duty to keep our river clean and use water judiciously. On the other hand, the state government should fulfill its promise and allot Rs 900 crore for de-silting, dredging and cleaning of the river. Tapi is the only source of water for Surat and if this river will dry up, then our prosperity will be in danger.”
 
 
