MUMBAI: About a fortnight into a hearing in a clutch of petitions that challenge dropping of criminal charges against five police officers from   and   in the 2005 Sohrabuddin Shaikh fake encounter case, Justice   of the Bombay high court observed on Wednesday that the   was yet to explain its entire case against all accused.

 
 The court said it was still not clear about the prosecution case and that the   (CBI) had not place all prima facie evidence against those whose discharge please were accepted. The court has to decide whether the discharge orders need to be upheld or set aside. The CBI has challenged the discharge of two officials, while Sohrabuddin’s brother   has challenged it in the case of three others.
 
 The court essentially was voicing a lack of clarity in the presentation by the prosecution of its case at the hearing. “What is the prosecution case? I have not been informed by anyone yet what the entire case is against the accused,’’ said the Judge. The observations were made as Gautam Tiwari counsel for Rubabuddin read out from several witness statements to build his case that the discharge order in their favour was erroneous.
 
 Justice Mohite-Dere also expressed annoyance that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has yet not furnished a compilation of all witness statements recorded under section 164 of criminal procedure code. “This is the least you can do,’’ she said. She had said that it was the CBI’s duty to place all material on record.
 
 Justice Mohite-Dere who earlier too sought a list from the agency, asked the CBI lawyers to furnish a complete list of witness statements. The CBI submitted the compilation of all the 19 witness statements recorded under section 164 of CrPC, later in the evening to court.
 
 The section provides for recording of confessions and statements, under oath, before a magistrate. Such statements, if they are confessions can be used as substantive evidence, but if made by witnesses, can be used for corroborating or contradicting the witness making such statement in the trial. The Judge allowed Tiwari to read the witness statements as he sought to establish the corroboration for allegations of conspiracy and involvement of Gujarat and Rajasthan police officers in abduction and killing of Shaikh, his wife   in November 2005 and a year later Tulsiram Prajapati.
 
 However, in this case, despite the court's repeated queries, the CBI has chosen to argue only on the role of the two officials whose discharge it has challenged," Justice Mohite-Dere said.
 
 "I am still unclear on the prosecution's overall case since I am not getting enough assistance from the CBI," the judge said.
 
 The court has now directed the CBI to submit details of all the witnesses' statements recorded under section 164 of the CrPC.
 
 At a hearing last week, Justice Mohite-Dere also remarked, "This is not how a premier probe agency is expected to work’’ when CBI sought time to produce a transcript from a voice recorder.
 
 Relying on some of these witness statements, Tiwari said that they corroborated that Shaikhs and Prajapati were kept at a farm house and read from the house owner’s statement. His case was that the special CBI trial court judge who had allowed the discharge pleas of police officers from Gujarat and Rajasthan had “not considered these statements.’’ In a challenge to the discharge the submissions have to show why the order is erroneous and why no case of discharge was made out.
 
 Tiwari on Wednesday sought to demonstrate that despite possible corroborative statements in evidence, the discharge was granted while the defence case of lack of evidence ought to have been tested during trial. He read from Disha farm house owner’s statement which said that he had been told by a friend of his a few days before the Sohrabuddin Shaikh encounter that a police pal of his wanted to meet him. The cops told him that they wanted his farmhouse for “some secret police work.’’ He said that on November 25, 2005 his staff had told him that there was a Burqua clad woman and a man accompanied by police at the farmhouse. Tiwari will continue his submissions on Thursday.
 
