HYDERABAD: A day after private college managements threatened to not cooperate with state government in conducting SSC and intermediate board exams, over the fee issue, the state decided to avail the services of government institutions and teachers for smooth conduct of exams.

 The intermediate exams are scheduled to begin from February 28, while   are set to commence from March 15. Over nine lakh students are expected to appear for Class 10 and 12 exams.
 
  
 With only two weeks left for the exams, deputy chief minister and education minister   held a review meeting with school education, intermediate and collegiate education department officials on Saturday to discuss the action plan.
 
 The minister instructed officials to make alternative arrangements to ensure that students are not affected by the demands raised by private college managements. “Government run model schools,  , junior and degree colleges have sufficient infrastructure to conduct exams. Identify exam centres in these institutions and come up with a micro-level action plan,” said Srihari in the meeting.
 
 Private college managements not only denied space in their institutions, to be used as exam centres, but also said they would boycott exam duties if the government failed to fix the fee issue. To counter this, the minister instructed authorities to render the services of government teachers as invigilators. “The authorities must ensure that all   are utilised to ensure smooth conduct of the exam. Government teachers must be deputed as invigilators at majority exam centres,” said Srihari.
 
 Extending their support to the state, government junior college lecturers, meanwhile, decried the actions of private college managements. “They must not resort to such steps that will affect students. While SSC exams can be postponed, intermediate exams cannot be postponed since they are linked to national entrance exams. The private college managements must resolve the problem amicably,” said Madhusudan Reddy, president of Government Junior College  
 
