Ranchi: Ruling   on Friday won most of the 34 urban civic bodies in Jharkhand that went to the polls on April 16. This is the first time that the state has held the urban body polls on a party basis.

 BJP won all five municipal corporations — Ranchi, Adityapur, Giridih, Hazaribag and Medininagar (Palamu). It captured nine out of 13 nagar panchayats and seven out of16 municipal councils. It also won the bypoll to the chairperson’s seat in Jhumri Tilaiya nagar panchayat.
 
 As soon as counting of votes began on Friday, BJP surged ahead of its main challengers, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) and  , which are likely to have a tie-up in the 2019 parliamentary and assembly elections. The parties, however, fought the urban polls separately.
 
 Garhwa, Chatra, Sahebganj, Pakur, Mihijam and Chirkunda were among the muncipal councils that went to BJP. Congress won Gumla, Lohardaga, Phusro, Kapali and Simdega municipal councils. JMM emerged victorious in Chaibasa and Madhupur councils. Independents won Godda and Dumka councils while Ramgarh went to All Jharkhand Stundents’ Union-Party (AJSU-P).
 
 BJP captured Bundu, Chakulia, Latehar, Barharwa, Basukinath, Seraikela, Jamtara, Khunti and Utari nagar panchayats. The remaining four — Hussainabad, Rajmahal, Domchanch and Chhattarpur — went to RJD, JMM, AJSU and JVM respectively. 
 
 Congratulating voters and BJP workers, chief minister Raghubar Das said, “Voters have recognised our commitment to our policy of ‘sabka sath sabka vikas’.” He thanked the state election commission for conducting free and fair voting.
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah congratulated Das and the party’s state president Laxman Gilua for the victory. He tweeted expressing his gratitude to the voters for putting their confidence in BJP.
 
 Speaking to the media at the BJP state headquarters, the chief minister said, “People have understood the importance of development and they are following the Prime Minister’s vision for a developed country.” He added, “There is no other leader in the country except   and it is under his leadership that we have introduced the concept of Smart City and Amrut Yojna.” 
 
 BJP described its loss in Dumka municipal council as a “surprise defeat”. The posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson there were won by Independents. It also lost Phusro municipal council to Congress though the assembly constituency by Biranchi Narayan, a party stalwart. “We will analyse the results and fix the problems soon,” Das said.
 
 RPN Singh, in-charge of Congress in the state, expressed satisfaction at the increase in his party’s vote share. He said, “We will plan our future strategy on the basis of the civic poll results. Opposition parties fought separately this time and we cannot regard the results as a precursor to the 2019 assembly election.”
 
 JMM central general secretary Supriyo Bhattachaya said, “We accept defeat and will do a a serious soulsearching. We will analyse our mistakes and correct them.”
 
 BJP supporters celebrated the party’s victory in the   across the state. Many Congress leaders and workers sounded happy over the fact that their party has pipped JMM as the state’s largest opposition outside the assembly.
 
 
