NEW DELHI: The   today launched a full-fledged attack on the Narendra Modi-led   regime by dubbing it a 'Jan Virodhi' (anti-people) government.

 
 Leading the charge was party chief  , who called PM Modi a silent spectator while the BJP-RSS took over and destroyed the democratic institutions of the country. Former Congress president Sonia Gandhi, too, targeted the Prime Minister, saying that all promises made by Modi before he came to power have turned out to be hollow.
 
 "Modi ji had said 'na khaunga na khane dunga' but corruption has increased. Lies and injustice rule the country. Whoever raises their voice has to bear the brunt of Modi government's anger. This is a 'Jan Virodhi' government," Sonia said in an address at the 'Jan Aakrosh' rally in the national capital.
 
 Rahul, on his part, tore into PM Modi for "spreading lies" about the Congress to divert attention from the many failures of his own government.
 
 "When PM Modi speaks, people have to search hard for shreds of truth within his speeches," he jibed.
 
 "Modi ji had said in 70 years the Congress did nothing, what did Modi ji do in 60 months - rising unemployment, oppressing women, ending the informal sector, Modi ji could not stand before China," he said, in a point-by-point takedown of recent cases of rape, demonetisation, and the Doklam dispute.
 
 The Gandhi scion augured that the electoral winds were blowing in the Congress party's favour and it would oust the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 "I interact with many people around the country. Whenever I ask them if they are happy with the Modi Govt, the reply is a resounding NO... The Congress will win every election from now on and will also emerge victorious in 2019," he claimed.
 
 In a preemptive salvo against the Congress, BJP president   today mocked the 'Jan Aakrosh' rally by dubbing it a 'Parivar Aakrosh' rally that highlights the party's increasing irrelevance.
 
 
 
 "A dynasty and their courtiers, who were sent out of state after state by 'Jan Aadesh' (people's mandate) now pretend to represent 'Jan Aakrosh', Shah said in a tweet.
 
  
  
 
 "If the Congress really wants to know why there is 'Jan Aakrosh', they should answer why did they disallow Parliament to function and why it has prevented the formation of an OBC commission that gives justice to backward sections," he said.
 
  
  
 
 Taking a dig at Rahul, Shah said he hoped the Congress chief would apologise to the nation for his party's efforts to trample over every possible institution in the country just because of its "power hungry" nature.
 
  
  
 
