With   set to table a proposal for hiking charges at parking lots, mayor   tells   that the civic body would have a detailed discussion during its general house meeting this week, before giving a go-ahead to the plan. He admits, though, that parking lots are not all that smart...

 
 
 
 
 According to public feedback, paid parking lots are not smart. People have been facing many other difficulties too. These include rude staff, congested entries and exits, nonfunctional electronic boards, missing receipt number on slips, and anomalies in smart parking app. Yes, this can’t be termed a smart parking system.
 
 
 
 
 
 I have collected all details and will discuss them with the municipal corporation’s (MC’s) finance and contracts committee (F&CC), which is going to meet on Tuesday. I will also take it up during the MC’s general house meeting on Friday.
 
 
 Since, as per public feedback, these parking lots are not smart and full of anomalies, the views of the F&CC and general house will be quite crucial. If facilities are not there, how can charges be enhanced? The general house, though, will take the final decision.
 
 
 
 From time to time, policy decisions are taken for improving public services. But results can be different. There is no question of it being a blunder. At the time we entered into an agreement with the contractor, he was asked to provide all facilities, which seem to be missing. Now, we will explore ways to make the system better and people friendly. There is no question of party politics.
 
 
 
 
 Officers who did not perform their duties will be held accountable. A reply will also be sought from the parking contractor. As there are so many anomalies, we will ask him why action should not be taken against him.
 
 
 
 
 I have already asked the officer concerned to probe this issue minutely. A detailed reply has been sought from the contractor too.
 
 The MC’s parking branch has been mulling over an exercise to convert some non-paid parking lots into paid lots. Will this be implemented?
 
 Right now, no other unpaid parking lots will be converted into paid parking lots. At present, the system needs to be made perfect. Also, I will study the revenue model of paid parking lots. There are many markets in the city which need to be studied, as they are not heavily business-oriented.
 
