CHANDIGARH: One person died and two were hurt as a result of heavy   in two separate road accidents on Thursday night. 

 In the last five days, fog has claimed the lives of four people in road accidents. 
 
 A motorcyclist died in Sarangpur on Wednesday night when his bike collided with the wall of IRB complex because of thick fog. The deceased biker has been identified as Mohit (28), a resident of Parch village,  . Mohit, a daily wage labourer, was returning on the bike to his house in Sarangpur. 
 
 After primary investigation, Sarangpur police said it was found that due to low visibility and heavy fog, Mohit might have hit the wall of the complex and got injured. The incident came into light the next morning when a passerby saw him lying in a pool of blood. Later, he informed the police. 
 
 PCR reached the spot and rushed him to GMSH-16, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police kept the body in morgue for an autopsy. Sarangpur police have registered a case and started investigation.
 
 In another accident, two auto rickshaw occupants were injured after a car driver hit the auto rickshaw on a bridge in Dhanas on Thursday night. 
 
 Vicky, the auto rickshaw driver, alleged that the driver of I-20 car hit his rickshaw.   and  , both residents of Dhanas, were travelling in the auto rickshaw sustained injuries.
 
 PCR rushed the injured to GMSH-16. Mohinder’s two teeth were broken in the accident and Harikesh received injuries on his head. On the statement of the auto driver, Sarangpur police have arrested the car driver Devinder Singh of Mohali. However, he was later released on bail.
 
  New Year started off on a bad note when a 19-year-old woman was killed after a   bus ran over the Honda Activa she was riding near Furniture Market roundabout in Sector 42. On January 3, two people, including a woman, have been killed in separate road accidents. The fatal collisions happened in Sectors 34 and 37. The deceased were identified as Poonam of Sector 25 and Charan Lal Sharma of Sector 37. 
 
