Noida: A hardware networking engineer has been arrested for allegedly duping a number of youths of at least Rs 20 lakh on the pretext of giving them jobs.

 Mamura-based   (27) was arrested on Monday from his flat in Sector 73. Sources said he had been involved in a similar online racket along with two others until 2016 and had formed a fictitious job company six months back.
 
 Pandey, who worked for a recognised online job portal earlier, had allegedly stolen data on 3,000-odd jobseekers. He and his three aides — Dinesh  , Shiraz and Vikrant Goswami — would call up the youths, offer them jobs in private firms across NCR and ask them to pay up for various steps.
 
 Pandey’s associates are untraceable.
 
 Pandey, who belongs to Bhadohi district, had taken a well-furnished office for a rent of Rs 40,000 a month in Sector 72, where he would speak with the youths.
 
 Sources said Pandey and his aides would first seek Rs 1,600 from the youths as registration fee, after which they would demand Rs 5,000 for document verification and Rs 10,000 for issuing the appointment letter.
 
 “They would ask the youths to deposit the money either in bank accounts or through Paytm. After getting the money, they would stop using the SIM cards with which they had made the calls. 
 
 “They mostly targeted youths from southern cities such as Chennai, Bangalore and Mysore,” circle officer II Rajeev Kumar said.
 
 Amit  , the SHO of Phase 3 police station, said Pandey had been involved in a similar fraud till 2016 with two others — Abhishek Mishra and Abhishek Singh.
 
 “The other two had been nabbed from Sardhana in   and jailed for orchestrating the fraud. Gaurav Pandey had learnt the tricks of the trade from them and started his own company around six months back,” Singh said.
 
 Singh said Pandey targeted youths whose information he had allegedly stolen from the database of the job portal he worked for earlier.
 
 “He took an office on rent and hired some employees. They would ask the jobseekers to send money to them in six accounts — three belonging to Gaurav and three his accomplices,” Singh said.
 
 The police have recovered four bank passbooks, seven ATM cards, four chequebooks, 16 mobile phones, two laptops, a CPU, printer and six notebooks from the office.
 
 Sources said while the police had received 15 written complaints so far, an Excel sheet with contacts of as many as 3,000 youths had been found in the office.
 
 The police said they were looking for three of Pandey’s associates. 
 
 
