MUMBAI: Chief minister   on Monday appointed additional chief secretary (finance)   as the state’s  . He will have a tenure of nine months as he is set to retire on January 31, 2019.

 Jain, an IAS officer of the 1983 batch, succeeds  , who retired on Monday. Mullick will be new chief information Commissioner. The CIC’s post had been lying vacant for more than a year.
 
  
 Jain took charge of his new responsibility in Mumbai at around 4:30 pm on Monday afternoon. “I would like to address the agrarian distress that poses a challenge to the state by drawing up a time-bound programme. I would also work towards making the government more accessible to the common public through the use of information technology,” said Jain to mediapersons after assuming charge.
 
 Jain superseded two senior bureaucrats: additional chief secretary (relief and rehabilitation) Medha Gagdil and additional chief secretary (home) Sudhir Shrivastava. Though Gadgil, Shrivastava and Jain all belong to the same batch, Gadgil is the seniormost, followed by Shrivastava and Jain. However, it remains to be seen if Gadgil and Shrivastava raise a banner of revolt or quietly accept Jain’s leadership.
 
 “It (whom to select for the top job) is the prerogative of the chief minister. It is not binding on the chief minister to appoint the chief secretary on the basis of seniority. In the past too, on several occasions, the principle of seniority has been ignored and a bureaucrat of the CM’s choice has been appointed as the chief secretary,” a senior bureaucrat said.
 
 After he was inducted into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the elite group of bureaucrats, Jain’s first assignment was in Dhule in 1984 as assistant collector. After this he was chief executive officer of the Jalgaon Zilla Parishad and also Solapur collector.
 
 Between 1995 and 2002 he was in New Delhi on central deputation and came back again to the state as the rural development secretary between 2008 and 2015. He was appointed the additional chief secretary (finance) on March 29, 2016.
 
 
