Under increasing international pressure on terrorism, a team from the   will arrive in Pakistan this week to assess its implementation of sanctions under UN Resolution 1267, directed against Taliban and other terrorists. 

 Simultaneously, the clock is also running on a request made to the UNSC by Lashkar-e-Taiba chief   to remove him from the list of global terrorists.
 
 The UNSC ombudsman's office has until February to come to a decision on Saeed's request that he be removed from the Islamic State and Al Qaida Sanctions List. The official request was sent by Saeed's lawyers from Lahore, Mirza & Mirza, to the ombudsman, Catherine Marchi-Uhel, a few months ago. However, nothing happened afterwards since the ombudsman herself has left on another assignment. This is not Saeed's first request - the UNSC refused to delist him on a previous request in 2009, soon after he had been named.
 
 India and the US, according to sources, have decided to oppose any attempt to delist Saeed. This was reinforced during the first India-US meeting on terror designations in December. "The monitoring team of the UNSC 1267 sanctions committee will be here on January 25 and 26," a senior Pakistani official was quoted as saying. With Saeed out of house arrest since November, compliance of this important UN resolution by Pakistan has been inadequate. Saeed was proscribed as a global terrorist in December 2008, after he directed a massive terror attack in Mumbai on November 26 that year.
 
 The action comes even as the Pakistani government is on an official overdrive to cleanse Saeed and mainstream the terror leader as a legitimate politician. Pakistani PM Shahid Khaqan Abbasi recently went on record to say there was no case against Saeed. This comes after the LeT chief was released from house arrest, and allowed to float a political party, Milli Muslim League, ready to contest elections. Indian officials believe the Pakistani establishment is on a much larger drive to transform Saeed from a terror leader to a political one.
 
 The monitoring committee is unlikely to achieve much, sources familiar with the exercise said. They have been invited by the Pakistani government to show its compliance record on curtailing Saeed's funds and travel. But Pakistan will not be questioned on why Saeed is out of custody, because this is beyond their remit. They also have no authority to question Pakistan on Saeed's sources of funds. The monitoring committee will fall woefully short because it is not effective in a Pakistan-like situation, where the government itself is an enabler of terrorist infrastructure. Pakistan has 35 organisations and 27 individuals who feature on that list. Saeed is the biggest of them all.
 
  Pakistan is also under the Financial Action Task Force scanner over allegations by the US and India about the UNSC sanctions not being fully implemented. In the November FATF plenary in Argentina, Pakistan's central bank took a lot of criticism on this front. Officials said this would be pursued even during the coming FATF plenary in Paris scheduled on February 18-23. 
 
 In an unusual clash in the UNSC on Friday, US deputy secretary John Sullivan directly addressed Pakistan's repeated failure to curb terrorist activity. "We seek to work cohesively and effectively with Pakistan, but cannot be successful if the status quo, one where terrorist organisations are given sanctuary inside the country's borders, is allowed to continue,," he said. While he invited a sharp riposte from the Pakistani envoy, it is another sign of eroding patience with Pakistan.
 
 
