NEW DELHI: An ugly bout of fisticuffs over a pair of deflated tyres on Thursday morning at the Dwarka Sector 21 metro station resulted in absolute mayhem by the end of the evening with thousands of passengers on Delhi Metro's Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida) left stranded with   employees blocking tracks to stop train movement.

 It was a heated argument-turned-fist fight between a   (CISF) sub-inspector and the station manager of the Dwarka Sector 21 metro station that eventually resulted in train movement grinding to a halt on Blue Line on Thursday evening. Thursday saw many unsavoury precedents being set with a bloody fight between CISF and   (DMRC), who usually work in tandem to keep the metro moving and DMRC employees doing a ‘rail roko’ to protest against the alleged assault.
 
 It all started at around 11.15 am on Thursday when a CISF sub-inspector (name withheld) parked his official motorcycle outside the Dwarka Sector 21 metro station and went inside. When he returned after some time, he found that the motorcycle’s tyres have been deflated.
 
 “He had parked his motorcycle along with many other two wheelers that were parked outside the station. When he enquired about the deflated tyres, he was told that the tyres were deflated on orders of the station manager,” a source said. “The sub-inspector got agitated because other two wheelers were not touched while the tyres of his official motorcycle were deflated. He went up to the station manager’s room and asked why only his motorcycle was targeted?” the source added.
 
 According to sources, the station manager and the sub-inspector have had altercations on other issues earlier. “The sub-inspector and the station manager got into a heated argument, which soon lead to a scuffle and all out fist fight,” he said.
 
 At this point, many other DMRC employees reached the station managers room and CISF personnel too reached the spot to resolve the issue. After the incident, both DMRC and CISF have lodged police complaints, blaming each other’s employees for the scuffle. Delhi Police said that they have got two complaints and are probing into them.
 
 “There was an incident today morning at   station involving an assault on a DMRC employee by CISF staff leading to injury of the DMRC station manager posted there. A report has been lodged on this issue by DMRC and CISF is taking up the issue departmentally also,” a DMRC spokesperson said. “Senior officers from DMRC and CISF have intervened to sort out the issue,” he said.
 
 “We are enquiring into the issue and stern action would be taken against whoever is found to be at fault. There has been some misunderstiang and we are trying to resolve the issue,” a CISF spokesperson said.
 
 The police complaints and involvement of senior DMRC and CISF officials, however, couldn’t pacify DMRC employees posted on the Blue Line. Large number of DMRC employees started protesting the incident and raised slogans against CISF. The protests grew larger by evening and at around 9 pm, some DMRC employees got down on the tracks near the Dwarka station and stopped train movement. As a result, DMRC had to curtail train operations up to   station, leaving thousands of Dwarka bound passengers returning home after work in the lurch.
 
 “I was travelling in a train bound towards Dwarka Sector 21 but the train was stopped at Janakpuri East station and after ten minutes, the driver asked passengers to vacate the train,” said Sunil Kumar, a commuter.
 
 Jatin Panchhi, another commuter, tweeted that DMRC staff is on tracks at Dwarka and not allowing trains to run, resulting in huge delays in service. The DMRC spokesperson didn’t comment on the issue of its staff blocking trains by getting on the tracks.
 
 Both the entry points at the   metro station were closed from 9pm to 10.10pm. According to the metro officials here, a few staffers had to be deployed outside the station as well, as the crowd started to swell in no time and became aggressive as many were in a rush and regular commuters of metro.
 
 "I came to the metro station around 9.30pm and noticed a hige crowd. At first I thought people have gathered to witness a brawl as I could hear people shouting, but when I went to check, I saw the entry gates had been closed," said Kunal. Adding to this, he said that he returned to the metro station at 10.40pm since he cannot afford any other mode of transport and there was no bus he got to his destination.
 
 Like him, there were several others stranded at the gates. A shopkeeper, whose shop lies between the two entry points said that only the exit gates were open so that people coming from the other side could exit smootly. Despite the arrangement, it became difficult for them to move out too, as the ones who wanted to enter kept gathering there. The shopkeepers were asked not to leave the shops.
 
 The DMRC spokesperson said that services between Dwarka Sector 21 to Janakpuri West section of the Blue Line were put on hold temporarily from 9.10 pm to 9.35 pm due to agitating staff assembling at Dwarka. The spokesperson claimed that services between Janakpuri West to Noida and Vaishali were normal and normal services on the entire corridor were restored by 9.35 pm.
 
 Passengers, however, complained that train services were affected on the entire corridor and not just between Janakpuri and Dwarka.
 
 “I had to wait from 9 pm to 9.40 pm at the Rajiv Chowk station to get a train. Even after boarding the train, the speed was slow,” said Sarvesh Kumar, another commuter. “There were no announcements by DMRC on the reason behind the unusual delay,” he said. Many other commuters complained that they were stranded at Anand Vihar and Yamuna Bank stations for more than half an hour.
 
