They have been married for nearly a decade, and by their own admission, Kannada   and   Akul Balaji and his wife Jyothi (Jo, to her near-and-dear ones), have been through several ups and downs, which, they believe has only cemented their love for each other. Akul has one of the busiest schedules on Kannada television, but   is not complaining, “because he always makes up for the time he is not with me and our son”. Ahead of Valentine’s Day, we caught up with the much-in-love couple about what keeps them ticking and more.

 
 
 Jo: Right from day one, Akul has been very particular about always being there for me and, since the birth of our son, for him too. Irrespective of how busy he gets, he makes it a point to come back home and be the best dad ever. It’s always family first for him. There are times when he is away for months, but as soon as he is back, he makes up for all the lost time. In fact, I have heard from people who have travelled with him about how much he speaks about his family and that is something that I love about him. I guess, distance does make the heart grow fonder.
 Akul: When I decided to get married, the one prerequisite I wanted in a life partner was that she should be independed and handle her own and my affairs in my absence, as I knew that my choice of career would keep me away from home often. I got that and more with Jo. She is the most straightforward person I have ever met and single- handedly runs the household, as well as all of my affairs, be it my finances or PR. Most importantly, what makes me love her even more is the way she brings up our son. I don’t have to worry about his upbringing at all as I know he is in good hands.
 
 
 
 Jo: Akul’s obsession with any sport he takes up. In the past, he has focused his energies on squash and tennis, but thankfully, those were short-lived phases in his life. But for a while now he has been developing a keen interest in golf, which, I initially thought would be one of those things he would get over with soon. But it hasn’t and he has even found a buddy, Tudor, with whom he plays all the time. In fact, Tudor’s wife and I call each other   widows. 
 Akul: Jo can be very stubborn sometimes. When she sets her mind on something, she wants it done. Of course, you can talk her out of it eventually, but the time it takes her to rethink her decision can be irksome. For instance, there are a lot of things we do together, like, our most recent diet. We have been following it religiously, but then, one day she craved biryani. She was willing to forego the diet and have a cheat day. I tried talking sense into her, but when it didn’t work, I caved in and said I would order a family pack so that all of us could enjoy that meal. But she snapped out of her craving just then and I wondered what good the hours we spent debating it did.
 
 
 
 Jo: The key to any strong relationship lies in finding time for each other. It does not matter when and how far apart, fix time that is only about the two of you. It can be as simple as a meal together.
 Akul: I completely agree with Jo, but would like to add that it is also about having open communication. You should be able to talk to each other about everything in your lives and what you say has to be honest.
 
 Akul: For any relationship to work, your biggest investment has to be patience. If you look at older generations, like our parents, they also had strifes, but at the end of the day, it was about putting family ahead of personal egos.
 Jo: In the initial years, there will be a lot of happy moments, but there will be the difficult ones as well. Make sure to have a record — ideally pictures — of your happy times, and every time there is an adverse moment, remind yourself of the joys you shared and everything will be OK.
 
