CAPE TOWN: On an off-day that India should feel better about, much in contrast to  's frustration knowing they could've put further pressure on their batting accelerator,   & Co. may have had enough time to sit down and ponder what exactly had not worked for them these last two days.

 
 Ever since the Indian team arrived here in Cape Town, there have been questions asked of them. To their credit, they've had justifiable answers.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Why exactly did India cancel the warm-up game that was scheduled ahead of the first Test? Blame it on the scheduling because after arriving in South Africa on December 28, and taking another 48 hours to warm up to their long stay here, the time on hand was less than a week before the Test was scheduled to begin. Instead of a warm-up, the team management believed a well-monitored net session would work better to their advantage.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Next in line for what was soon going to become a hot debate was the benching of vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane and opting for the in-form Rohit Sharma. Rahane, who enjoys an overseas batting average of 54, was expected to play the game until the morning of January 5, the first day of the Test. The team management's philosophy remained that they needed to go in with a batsman in form for a Test match as important as this one.
 
 
 
 
 Then came the debate over dropping the in-form KL Rahul and settling for Shikhar Dhawan. It's a decision the team will have to give a serious thought going further into this series. Form aside, Dhawan showed absolute carelessness for the conditions given the manner in which he went ahead with his stroke off Dale Steyn. Worse, it came soon after his opening partner Murali Vijay had fallen to a badly attempted stroke too.
 
 
 
 
 And finally, the selection of Jasprit Bumrah in the eleven - one that caught even the South Africans by a bit of surprise. Not having played a single Test, Bumrah was given his Test cap ahead of a game as big as this one and with Mohammad Shami spraying all over Newlands at the start of play, the Indian attack presented a picture of enough imbalance. 
 
 India probably pondered these factors even as South Africa, 142 runs ahead of India in their second innings with eight wickets in hand, look to make the most of the remaining two days. The weather, for the record, is expected to be good for cricket.
 
 
