LUCKNOW: The state government on Thursday served notices to six former UP CMs, asking them to vacate government bungalows within 15 days.

 
 The notices were served to Union home minister Rajnath Singh, Rajasthan governor Kalyan Singh, SP patriarch  , BSP chief  , SP president  , and senior   leader ND Tewari.
 
 The development comes 10 days after the   struck down amendment in a state law that allowed former CMs to occupy government accommodation even after they demit office.
 
 UP estate officer Yogesh Shukla said that the notices have been served in view of the SC order. “The former CMs have been asked to vacate the government accommodation within 15 days,” he said. On Wednesday, Mulayam had met CM Yogi Adityanath, triggering speculation that the two leaders discussed the SC order and its larger impact.
 
 These bungalows are situated in the heart of the state capital and have sprawling areas, as high as 2100 square metres (almost half the size of a hockey field). However, they attract paltry monthly rent ranging between Rs 2,500 and Rs 4,200.
 
 While Mulayam and   occupy bungalows on the posh Vikramaditya Marg, Mayawati resides in a government bungalow in Mall Avenue. Rajnath’s bungalow is on Kalidas Marg.
 
 In 2016, Lok Prahari, an NGO, had challenged the amendments made by then Akhilesh government to the UP Ministers (Salaries, Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1981. It had also challenged another UP law of 2016 — The Allotment of Houses under Control of the Estate Department Bill — to regulate the allotment of government accommodations to trusts, journalists, political parties, Speaker and deputy Speaker of legislative assembly, judicial officers and government officials.
 
 The SC in its May 7 ruling had observed: “Whether retention of official accommodation by the functionaries mentioned in Section 4(3) of the 1981Act after they had demitted office violate the equality clause guaranteed by Article 14 of the Constitution of India?” The apex court ruling hit Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati who are not the members of either Parliament or UP assembly.
 
 
