NAGPUR: City police have cracked at least nine cases of theft by an inter-state gang posing as cops in the last few months. Cops have arrested two members of the gang of four, and recovered valuables worth around Rs12 lakh on Sunday. The gang used to target elderly people by posing as cops.

 Constable Pankaj Ramteke sustained injuries during a scuffle with the gang members while nabbing the accused. The entire operation was planned by senior PI of Sitabuldi police station, a former CBI officer, Hemant Kharabe under the supervision of Zone II DCP Rakesh Ola.
 
 On April 30, four cases of theft by impostor cops were reported in city at Sitabuldi, Ambazari, Hudkeshwar and   police stations. The cops then started tracking down the accused. CCTV footage from the crime scenes was procured and scrutinized, and cops were able to get images of the accused.
 
 A team of cops from Sitabuldi police station received a tip off that the accused were travelling to Mumbai by train, so cops laid a trap at Itarsi railway station. However, the accused did not take the train. The gang members changed their plan at the last minute and went to  .
 
 After receiving the information, a police team left for Bihar, but again received a tip off that the accused were in Ambikapur, Chhattisgarh. The cops nabbed Humayun Jafri, a resident of Ambewali Mumbai, and during primary interrogation he spilt the beans about the location of his accomplices.
 
 After receiving information about the location of other accused, cops rushed to Budhara, Madhya Pradesh. With the help of Madhya Pradesh police, the cops raided the location of   and his accomplice Zakir alias Salman Jafri. The duo was resting on the terrace of a building, and one seeing the approaching cops both of them jumped from the terrace. After a chase of around half-a-kilometre Ali was nabbed while Zakir managed to flee. Cops recovered the stolen valuables from Ali.
 
 Addressing a press conference in city on Tuesday, Zone II DCP Rakesh Ola said, “The accused mostly targeted senior citizens as they fall prey to their traps quickly. There are four members in the gang and Zakir is the mastermind. The accused have till now admitted to nine crimes in the city, but we are looking for other crimes in different states and cities.”
 
 “It seems they were gathering at Budhara to distribute the stolen valuables, as they were also carrying a weighing scale,” added Ola.
 
 Cops have procured PCR of the accused till May 25.
 
 
 
