CHANDIGARH: Thousands of engineering aspirants appeared for   main entrance examination amid high security at different centres in the Tricity on Sunday.

 During the exam, parents were also seen to be gathered outside examinations halls. Students from the Tricity, other parts of Punjab and   and also Himachal, with dreams to get into reputed institutes, appeared for the examination. 
 
 They came out of the examination centres with mixed reactions. The exam paper consisted of 90 questions, 30 each from physics, chemistry and mathematics. Each question carried 4 marks.
 
 Priyanka Dhalwal, a student from Ambala, said, “My hands were trembling before the examination. But, I got some confidence once I started writing the paper. However, I could attempt only 40 questions and am hoping to get admission in one of the NITs. The paper was not so easy. To crack this exam, you need to have all your concepts clear.”
 
 Sahil Pillania, a student from Chandigarh, said, “I attempted 46 questions. Mathematics portion was difficult whereas, chemistry and physics was easier. I am hoping to get admission in well-reputed institute.”
 
 For Ludhiana student  , cracking the exam was actually fulfilling her father’s dreams. Her father, a farmer, has always been an inspiration for her when it came to hard work. “For the past two years, I have been preparing for this examination. My exam was good and I am hopeful to get into one of the IITs. Despite having financial crises, my father has supported me to see me become an engineer,” she said.
 
 Luvpreet, a student from Patiala, said, “I attempted 50 questions and am hoping to get admission in a good college. I am aware that I have not performed well enough to secure seats in institutes like IITs or NITs.”
 
 Mulakh Raj Sharma, a parent from   stated, “I spent a lot to get good coaching for my daughter and see her become a good engineer. I hope that she will fulfill my dreams.” 
 
 Roshan Lal, another parent from Kangra, said said he along with his son reached the exam centre a day before to avoid any last minute rush. “Last year too, he cracked the examination. He was eligible to get an admission into NITs, but refused. I hope he will be able to fulfill his dream to get into an IIT this time.”
 
 
