LUDHIANA: The implementation of the new advertisement policy has become a tough task for civic officials. While on the one hand, there are chances of its opposition in the   general house by councillors and MLAs, the removal of advertisement tax from the MC Act has also confused officials, who are now planning to seek legal opinion over the subject, so as to avoid any problem at a later stage.

 Officials claimed when GST was introduced last year, the state government had omitted advertisement tax from the MC Act. Now, when this policy has been introduced, they have to recover some charges for display of advertisements from firms. Confusion has been created on this, therefore they have decided to first seek legal opinion. Moreover, bylaws will be put up in the MC general house for approval, and therefore, they will have to cross-check all the facts.
 
 MC additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said the advertisement policy could help generate huge revenue for the fund-starved body, which had stopped it for the past several years. He said they would have to verify all facts, and the advertisement tax collection is a major concern which they will check at the local as well as at the state government level. At present, MC is charging Rs 50-Rs 55 square feet from advertisers. This was implemented after charges were revised in 2014. Sources revealed that officials would have to prepare new rates, and then get them sanctioned from the state government for implementation.
 
 Notably, from 2006 to 2013, MC had signed a contract with two advertisement companies, from which it was generating Rs 5-6 crore annually. But after 2013, the contracts expired and the then SAD-BJP government announced it would bring a new advertisement policy, for which a master plan was also prepared. MC first floated tenders in October 2014, where companies participated for developing street infrastructure, along with installing hoardings at 1,141 sites.
 
 But   leaders started an agitation, saying the rates were low. However, in 2016, tenders were floated again for 1,900 sites, in which four companies participated. At that time, the reserve price was higher, so nobody filled in the tenders. Now, without hiring any agency, MC is generating around Rs 1.5 crore annually from advertisements, which is a meagre amount. In the new policy, officials are sensing more revenue for the civic body. 
 
 
