KHATKAR KALAN (NAWANSHAHR): Chief minister   on Thursday paid tributes to Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, and Sukhdev on their martyrdom day with a vow to empower the youth and launched the Drug Abuse Prevention Officers (DAPO) programme to tackle the menace of drugs from the state.

 At the state-level function, he launched the DAPO programme that will engage government employees and citizens in the ongoing fight against drugs. He took the DAPO oath and also administered it to other volunteers, thanking them for joining his government’s efforts to rid the state of the problem of drugs. The state cabinet ministers simultaneously administered the DAPO oath to volunteers in various district headquarters.
 
 Leading the campaign, Captain Amarinder Singh became the state’s first DAPO, with STF chief Harpreet Singh Sidhu handing over the DAPO identity card to him at Khatkar Kalan, the ancestral village of  . 
 
 Amarinder later told the gathering that the DAPO programme, marking the Youth Empowerment Day, will involve engaging with dedicated volunteers to work in their localities in coordination with the local administration, police and STF. He disclosed that more than 4.25 lakh DAPO volunteers had already registered through the website and more applications were likely to flow in.
 
 He appealed people to join the anti-drugs campaign of the government, pointing out that it was the collective responsibility of all to rescue youth from the clutches of drugs, which was destroying future generations. 
 
 He recalled his visit to the Andaman and Nicobar Islands post Tsunmai, where thousands of Punjabi freedom fighters had jailed for raising the banner of revolt against the British tyranny, and exhorted the people to take inspiration from their sacrifices. Amarinder also dedicated to the nation the Shaheed-e-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh Memorial and Museum to commemorate the sacrifices of the great martyrs.
 
 Cabinet minister   requested the Chief Minister to formulate a policy for youth, who constitute 56 percent of the state’s total population.
 
 Among the special invitees at the programme were the family members of Shaheed-E-Azam Bhagat Singh, including Abhey Singh Sandhu, Harjiwanpal Singh Gill, Jagjiwanpal Singh Gill, Kiranjit Sandhu, Manjeet Kaur, Anshuka and Anushpriya. Family members of Shaheed Sukhdev, including Ashok Thapar, Tribhuvan Thapar and Vinod Thapar were also present. 
 
 
 
