NEW DELHI: The government’s ambitious plan to provide seamless connectivity across the country’s north-eastern region has made little headway despite the Union Cabinet approving a comprehensive plan more than three years back.

 
 Budgetary estimate for the plan — that would have provided a stable   network in the north-east — has gone up from the originally-envisaged Rs 5,300 crore to over Rs 8,000 crore. However, not even one project has been completed so far, official sources said.
 
 The states that would be covered as part of the project are  ,  , Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and  . The projects are critical in nature as they require work in the border areas and strategically-sensitive zones.
 
 According to the originally-envisaged plan, a total of 8,621 villages (and the national highway region around them) had to be provided mobile coverage through the project that received approval from the Cabinet in September 2014.
 
 While one part of the project — covering areas in the sensitive zones of Arunachal Pradesh and two districts of Assam — was accorded to BSNL, the actual work is yet to take off.
 
 BSNL had called for tender in April 2016, and had awarded work to two companies — Vihaan Networks (VNL) and HFCL — in April last year under the preference to domestically-manufactured telecom products policy. However, the telecom department is yet to give final orders to award the work here.
 
 On the other hand, the project for the other six states and remaining districts of Assam has been stuck for the last many years. The work for this was handed over to the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) of the telecom ministry, but did not see much movement until last year.
 
 While USOF had floated a tender for the project only in May 2016, but this had failed to get any response initially. Following this, a new tender was issued in March last year that had received only one bid from  , which was awarded a Rs 1,610 crore contract.
 
 However, work is yet to be completed even here, and meanwhile Airtel opted out of Meghalaya, which has further slowed down the progress of the project. The telecom department and USOF have now decided to have both 2G and 4G in Meghalaya, taking the cost of the project in the state to Rs 4,300 crore against the originally-envisaged Rs 1,400 crore.
 
 Telecom minister Manoj Sinha has said that improving telecom infrastructure in the north-east is a priority for the government. “Projects are running behind schedule due to a variety of reasons, which include inadequacy of the agencies that are implementing the projects; hindrances due to various developmental activities like expansion of national highways; hilly terrain and remote and inaccessible areas. Law and order related issues are another trouble area for the region,” Sinha said recently.
 
 
