NEW DELHI: Patidar community leader from Gujarat,  , on Friday compared   Mamata Banerjee with   and confirmed that he will campaign for the Trinamool Congress leader in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.

 
 On Friday, bonhomie between the Patidar community leader, Hardik Patel, and West Bengal chief minister   was on full display during a meeting in Kolkata where the two leaders exchanged their views on future of politics in the country and possibility of a political alliance between them.
 
 Following his meeting with the West Bengal chief minister, Patel tweeted his gratitude and compared Banerjee with former Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi.
 
  
  
 "Mamata didi is the other name for simplicity. Today, I had a meeting with the West Bengal chief minister and   Mamata Banerjee. Didi said that I should move ahead with authenticity, intelligence and transparency and God will help me to be successful. Didi also showed me a view of Kolkata city from her office," he tweeted.
 
 In the meeting, Patel also confirmed his support for the West Bengal CM for 2019 Lok Sabha polls, reported PTI.
 
 "There are so many Gujaratis and people from the Kurmi community in West Bengal. Didi has sent a recommendation to include the Kurmi community in schedule tribe but not in the OBC...," he said.
 
 "I will definitely come here to campaign during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019... But we all have to be united to fight those who are trying to divide the country," he confirmed.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is affectionately called "didi" by her supporters, invited the   to manage her party's affairs in Gujarat.
 
 "She has openly told me that whenever I want to join politics the door of TMC is open for me and you can manage the party in Gujarat. But I told her I do not have political aspiration now. But if I decide to join politics, I would definitely seek her advice," Patel said.
 
 Patel, who shot into prominence after leading the Patidar reservation agitation in Gujarat, described Congress and TMC as the two biggest opposition parties in the country and opined that Banerjee should spearhead Opposition against the NDA-led government at Centre.
 
 "At the moment, the Congress and the Trinamool Congress are the two big opposition parties in the country. But, if didi or the Congress and other parties sit together and decide something, that will be good," he suggested.
 
 "But if you ask my personal opinion, I will say she is an intelligent woman who has a history of being a revolutionary leader and she should come forward to be the leader (of opposition parties)," he said after the hour-and-half-long meeting.
 
 On her part, Banerjee described Patel as "like my younger brother".
 
 "He is very good and sensitive. He is fighting for the people of Gujarat...I have asked him to join politics and work for the good of the common man," she said.
 
