Chandigarh: All India Congress Committee (AICC) media in-charge, Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday accused the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government of putting the state on the verge of collapse by playing divisive politics on caste divide and conflict.

 While speaking at the ‘Jan Adhikar Rally’at Gulha Cheeka, organised by MLA Phool Singh Kheri, Surjewala referred to the motorcycle rally to be addressed by BJP national president Amit Shah at Jind on February 15. “Haryana has already seen devastation thrice. Now, we are again faced with a similar situation. The government must ensure that the law and order is under control in all circumstances,” said Surjewala. “What is the government out to prove after deploying 180 companies of para military forces for the rally? Is this not a burden on the state exchequer?” questioned Surjewala.
 
 Surjewala urged those present at the venue to ensure that they threw the BJP out of power in the state and the Centre. “How unfortunate it is that the even after four years of its rule, BJP has failed to honour its promise of giving 50% profit on farm income. This government could only give a raise of Rs 20 per quintal in sugarcane and nearly Rs 50 in wheat produce. Same is the case with other crops. This is a cruel joke on the farmers of Haryana,’’ said Surjwala.
 
 This government has duped farmers by slapping GST on agricultural tools and bullet is the only answer to those who agitate against this government, added Surjewala. Referring to the law and order and employment opportunities for youth, Surjewala dared the government to provide details of appointments made without the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court. They have laid off the employees and soon they would come out to press their demands. Guest teachers are sitting in Karnal, he added.
 
 ‘Khattar govt has failed’
 
 While Surjewala addressed rally in Gulha Cheeka,former chief minister Bhupinder Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda chaired a public meeting in Bahadurgarh. Hooda senior asked those present to draw a comparison on developmental works and crime between the Manohar Lal Khattar-led-government and his 10-year rule. Hooda junior took swipes at the Khattar government over its failure on law and order, education, health and infrastructure.
 
 
