PANAJI: The Goa electricity department has acted swiftly on complaints of streetlights being left on during the day.

 The issue of the LED streetlights being left on 24x7, despite it being brought to the notice of the department, was raised at the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) public hearing held in Margao last week.
 
 Cuncolim civic and consumer forum representative   Fernandes complained about a streetlight outside her home that has been left on all day long for the past two decades. She said that repeated complaints, in writing, were made and follow-ups done with the department’s engineers. 
 
 Taking cognizance of the issue, chairperson of the commission M K Goel asked the chief electrical engineer of the electricity department N N   whether the department has a system to ensure that all streetlights are switched off during the day and a system to follow up on complaints. “It’s your energy that’s getting wasted. You should ensure that they’re switched off,” he said. 
 
 Reddy said the issue would be resolved with automatic switch-on-switch-off streetlights. Wireless GSM based panels controlled through a remote central room will record data from streetlights and provide inputs.
 
 Energy Efficiency Services Ltd a joint venture company with Bharat Vikas Group have launched a 24-hour helpline service with a toll-free number — 18002333949 — where people can register their complaints and grievances with regards to LED lights and issues relating to installation and functioning of LED streetlights. 
 
 Lorna as well as  , coordinator of the Paroda- Avedem civic and consumer forum were both pleasantly surprised to find the department’s staff at their doorstep no sooner they returned home from the public hearing. “Two streetlights have finally been connected to the streetlight line and are now switched off during the day. Fourteen others have also been rectified in and around Paroda,” Cypriana says.
 
 After it was pulled upfor not updating its website, the department immediately made amends and knocked off the names of the former power minister and former chief electrical engineers.
 
 
