NEW DELHI: A 33-year-old man died in mysterious circumstances at his house in D-Block of   in south Delhi on Wednesday evening. Family members alleged that he was in depression due to marital discord.

 The body of the man,  , was found hanging from the ceiling by his wife, who called the cops. A police team rushed the unconscious man to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. He was the marketing head at an insurance company and had been away from work for the last two days.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Malhotra’s younger brother,  , said that he barely talked with his sister-in-law and was surprised when she called him around 4.45pm. “She said my brother had died. I asked her not to play a prank, but she repeated herself. I left work immediately only to see police taking my brother to a hospital. He was not breathing and his body had turned blue,” he added.
 
 Chirag added that his brother often complained that he was unhappy with the way his wife behaved with him. He said his brother couldn’t have committed suicide. After their grandmother passed away in February, Malhotra kept reiterating that it was important for them to take care of their mother. “In fact, he was planning to end the marriage as he was unhappy and his wife ridiculing our parents,” he added.
 
 “Neighbours often told us about hearing heated arguments from the couple’s house, but they never intervened thinking it was the couple’s personal matter. Kshitij was to leave for Paris with his wife on May 29 and was very excited about the trip. He had asked me to prepare an itinerary for him,” Chirag added.
 
 “The victim’s family claims that the couple did not share a good relationship and suspect foul play. However, there were no injury marks on his body and clear ligature marks on the neck. We are probing the allegations. We will only be able to reach a conclusion after  ,” DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere said. 
 
 Malhotra’s body has been preserved at Safdarjung mortuary and autopsy will be conducted on Friday.
 
 
