Mysuru: It’s high time we asked ourselves if   has managed to establish equality, said Prof.  , president of the Indian Sociological Society here on Thursday.

 Indira, who was at a one-day state-level seminar on ‘Globalisation and Social Dimensions of Development: Processes and Concerns’ organised by the Sociology Teachers’ Association of   (UoM) and the Alumni Association, sought to debunk the long-held perception that globalisation was a phenomenon that started in the 1990s. “It grew along with colonisation. When the British came to India, and started to rule, globalisation started. They targeted or trade, culture, lifestyle and language. Globalisation and   are two sides of the same coin,” said Prof Indira, who was recently elected president of the Indian Sociological Society.
 
 Indira, however, was quick to list some of the benefits people have reaped as a result of globalisation. “As a  , I feel globalisation cannot be equated with economy alone. It has had an impact on breaking barriers and monopoly. It has led to the emergence of a borderless world. People, separated by miles, can speak to one another in a matter of minutes,” said Indira. “A study states that mobile phones have reached nearly 80% of India, but less than 50% of the population have access to toilet facilities,” she added.
 
 The sociologist, did, however point out that globalisation had opened a multitude of employment opportunities. Quoting from the Preamble to the Constitution, Indira said, “In ‘We, the People of India’, we stands for a diverse country. It symbolizes a plural society. We need to question if globalisation has catered to a plural society, if it has bridged the gap between the poor and the rich.”
 
 Citing eminent sociologist C Wright Mills, Indira said, “Sociologists should be dreamers. They should dream of the society and not themselves. The purpose of the dream must be the upliftment of the downtrodden.”
 
 UoM in-charge vice-chancellor C Basavaraju, who inaugurated the seminar, said, “Globalisation has resulted in Indian universities being in competition with varsities from across the world. Even though many talented students are produced by Indian varsities, they are sold to western institutions since India fails to provide them with basic facilities.”
 
 Professor Ganesh Somayaji, head department of Sociology, Goa University, BT Vijay, Professor Yashwantha Dongre, S Yashoda and Professor K Sumitra Bai were present.
 
 
