PUNE: In a proposal tabled before Pune Municipal Corporation’s standing committee, corporator Bapu   has demanded that the centralized street lighting system be discarded and a ward office-level system be introduced instead. As per the proposal, the move will help coordinate and maintain street lights better.

 “LED lights were installed across the city to save electricity. Some areas have got good lights, but nearly 90% street lights provided in some parts of the city are of poor quality. They have stopped functioning within a month. The damaged street lights are not repaired despite follow ups for around 8 to 10 days,” stated the proposal, which will be discussed on Tuesday.
 
 The proposal further states that the centralized tenders should be cancelled. “A provision should be made in the 2018-19 budget wherein the tenders for the street light will be issued based on old system. A ward office-level tender system should be introduced. The contractor of a particular ward will be able to do the repairs in the area designated to him.”
 
 
  
 
 While Karne agreed that the civic administration’s claim of saving electricity is true, the delayed repairs of damaged street lights is frustrating, he added.“It is creating displeasure among citizens. The elected members are facing the wrath of the residents,” said Karne.
 
 According to Karne the decentralized method would help speed up the disposal of complaints.
 
 As per civic officials, the administration is looking to connect 50,000 existing LED street lights to a control room in order to monitor the situation in real-time. The civic body has proposed to spend Rs7.73 crore for the work, which will include installation of as many as 1,000 feeders and the technology to connect every street light with the control room.
 
 The proposal comprises design, supply, installation and maintenance of feeders and feeder-based SCADA system on the existing LED street lights. “The decision about the new tenders can only be taken after the standing committee’s approval. The absence of interlinked street light poles has affected monitoring as well as redressal of complaints. It can be resolved through centralized monitoring,” said a senior official of the   ( ).
 
 Citizens groups have also highlighted the problems caused due to the street lights. Questioning the centralized tenders,   had also demanded an inquiry in the matter. “The possibility of the contractor gaining unduly and the PMC facing a loss cannot be ruled out,” the group had stated.
 
 According to the citizen’s group the “offer given by the contractor was both technically and commercially inferior.” Hence, PMC had to “accept low standard of bulbs and less profit.”
 
 
