NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old boy who had gone   while returning from school on February 28 was found dead in a   near his village in Jaitpur on Saturday morning. The parents claimed that he had a deep slit on his throat. 

 The police said a murder case had been registered after the boy’s parents identified his body. The possibility of a sexual assault has not been ruled out, said sources.
 
 Family members said the boy, who used to study at a municipal school, did not return home last Wednesday. After his father, an LIC agent, approached the police with a missing complaint, a team was formed to trace the boy. 
 
 Police officers said the child used to take different routes while returning from school but he could not be spotted in any of the CCTV footages recovered from the area in southeast Delhi.
 
 However, on Saturday morning, a passerby spotted him lying face down in the shallows of the Agra canal. It seemed that he had died on Wednesday itself and his body was dumped in the canal. Though his clothes were intact, family members suspected a sexual assault. They even indicated at the role of a family friend, which the cops are probing.
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said a probe had been initiated to establish the cause of the death. The body has been sent for an autopsy at AIIMS.
 
 The victim’s family members staged a protest at the Jaitpur police station, demanding an action against the investigators. 
 
 “I do not have a rivalry with anyone who would take such an extreme step of revenge on me. We suspect someone must have kidnapped him for sexual favours and murdered him after that. There was no ransom call,” said the boy’s father. 
 
 He said that his son usually took   along with his friends. However, his friends had told the parents that on Wednesday, he had left without them and taken a different route to return home. The police suspect that he might have been lured by someone known to him.
 
 Cops are questioning the teachers and some of the school guards to establish the sequence of events after he had left school. 
 
 They suspect that the boy had been thrown into the canal elsewhere but his partially decomposed body reached the shallows after getting stuck into something. 
 
 
