NEW DELHI: A 55-year-old man was shot at by two men at   on Wednesday morning when he was on his way to his office. Fortunately, he survived after undergoing surgery at   and was stable at the time of filing of this report.

 The attack occurred at 10.15am when Tasveer Singh Chaudhary was walking towards his office at A Block near gate number 1 of Rajiv Chowk metro station. He was stopped by two men and one of them tried to snatch his sidebag. Chaudhary tried to run away when they shot him in the waist and fled towards Paharganj.
 
 Chaudhary’s employees informed the police and he was taken to the hospital. “We have registered a case of attempt to murder, and have recorded the statements of the victim and his family members. CCTV footage is being scanned to identify the attackers,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Madhur Verma. Police have formed 10 teams to track down the accused.
 
 Chaudhary’s wife Sunita said both their sons, Arvinder and Satender, were lodged in Tihar Jail on charges of assault and attempt to murder levelled by a distant relative a year ago. Chaudhary was to appear as a witness in a court regarding this and had gone to his office to collect some money to pay his lawyers.
 
 “Last week, one of the youths who was thrashed by our son approached my husband and threatened to harm him if he deposed against him. We did not report it to the police as we decided to sort it out amicably. I didn’t think they would take such a step,” said Sunita. Chaudhary has two daughters also.
 
 The family alleged that they suspected the involvement of three distant relatives. Some members of that family have been detained for questioning.
 
 Police sources also said that Chaudhary also jointly ran a money-lending business with a man from Rohini who was jailed on charges of murder. Police are investigating if the shooting was the fallout of rivalry with his partner. Chaudhary told the police that one of the suspects had followed him in the metro from Bawana.
 
 Meanwhile, shopkeepers at A Block said they had first assumed it was a terror attack. “We heard a crack and saw the   running towards the road as Chaudhary lay face down, crying for help. One of the men was holding a pistol. They ran towards a motorbike parked on the road and fled,” said Abhishek Kumar, a parking attendant at A-block.
 
 “Fortunately there were no shoppers in the area as the market opens at 11am. But there were some shopkeepers and college students,” said Tarun Shekhar, an employee of a garment store nearby.
 
 Eight CCTV feeds have been obtained, but the camera closest to the spot was a live recorder and didn’t have DVR.
 
 
 
