NEW DELHI:   (KV) have finally bested   ( ) in their over a decade long rivalry to become the institution to record the best pass percentage in the Class XII exams under the  . On top of that, the   were also able to record their highest ever pass percentage in the exams. Nanda Vinod of KV, District Hospital, Kannur, who topped the institution, is also the all-India joint fourth ranker.

 The 97.8% pass percentage of the KVs was the highest among the institutional performances, followed by JNVs with 97.1%. This was for the first time the former topped the list. The two central government-backed school chains continue to remain the best as far as performance among institutions is concerned.
 
  
  
 While the pass percentage of other institutions hovers in the 80s, KVs and JNVs were able to breach the 90% mark back in 2009. The KVs this year improved its pass percentage by 1.9% from 95.7% in 2017.
 According to Santosh K Mall, commissioner,  , “KV students have done well in Class XII, and the institution is 0.7% ahead of JNVs for the first time. This is also the best KV result in the past 20 years as per records available and in all probability the highest of all time. We are in the process of analysing the quality dimensions of the results now.”
 
 Vinod, a science student, obtained 496 out of 500 marks for an aggregate of 99.2%. The second KVS topper is Bhasker Rawat of KV, ONGC, Dehradun, who got 494 for an aggregate of 98.8%.
 
 KVS officials said that preparation for improving the Class XII performance began in 2016 with a massive reshuffling of principals in the school chain. KVS also implemented a number of initiatives, among them putting in place an academic loss compensation programme for students going from the school for sports/ cultural or scientific events, monitoring and supervision of schools on specific parameters through well-devised mathematical supervision tools, conducting of special coaching and remedial, need-based classes during autumn and winter breaks, preparation and supply of centralised quality study material at headquarters with a question bank and practice papers created by subject experts from KVS, continuous interaction with parents of the principal and teachers and teachers visiting homes of children who needed support.
 
 According to U N Khaware, additional commissioner, acade mics, KVS, the success was also due to the “Vidyalaya Plan”, in which the principals are empowered to devise their own plans for their school. The plan also makes the principal and the teachers accountable for its implementation. “Also, the linking of assessments of the schools with the Vidyalaya Plan and its implementation worked for the betterment of all KVs,” Khaware said.
 
 
