In the wake of the   constable S Jegadish Durai, 33, allegedly by illegal  , the Inspector General of Police (IG) of West Zone Shailesh Kumar Yadav has issued instructions to the district police units to jointly conduct raids with revenue officials to check   sand mining. Senior police officers said that this is because revenue officials would know the legal and illegal quarries in the district.

 Jegadish was unarmed and alone and was not in the regular uniform as he was a constable attached to the special branch. The IG has instructed policemen on night patrol and those engaged in the raids to check illegal sand mining to not go alone and instead go as a team of at least two policemen, who should also be well armed.
 
 The district units have been instructed to deal with sand mining cases sternly. Stating that they have received instructions from the IG on Tuesday, the superintendent of police of Tirunelveli district P Ve Arunsakthikumar told TOI that the district police sent a proposal to the district collector to jointly conduct the raids to check illegal sand mining with the officials of the revenue department.
 
 "The framework for the joint raids will soon be formulated," he said and hinted that they also plan to have check-posts exclusively to check sand mining. "From last year we have stepped up the measures to check illegal mining. Jegadish was involved in checking illegal mining. His death is unfortunate," he said.
 
 In addition to the instructions from the IG, the district police unit has also issued a framework to policemen who are engaged in beat duty and on patrolling during the day. Patrolling should be done by two policemen or a policeman accompanied by a battalion or home guards. Raid on illegal sand mining, liquor, gambling or any other illegal activity should not be done by an officer below the rank of a sub-inspector.
 
 "The sub-inspector should be accompanied by at least two policemen. The numbers could go up if the situation requires," Arunsakthikumar added.
 
 Accused: On the other hand senior police officers said that the accused, who have been arrested, had revealed that the key accused in the murder Murugan knew that Jegadish was a policeman before the latter was beaten to death. Three days after the brutal murder, the special teams were on the lookout for Murugan till the late hours of Wednesday.
 
 In addition to Krishnan and Murugaperumal who were picked for questioning on Monday, the police have also picked a couple of people for questioning. They expressed confidence that all the accused will be arrested and will be punished.
 
 Funds: Meanwhile voluntary donations are pouring in for the family of Jagadish from his fellow policemen and officers in the district and zone. This is in addition to the Rs 10 lakh that was handed over to his family from the Chief Minister’s relief fund. Department personnel said the CM’s compensation should be increased to Rs 1 crore on par with the compensation that was given to inspector S Periyapandi who was killed in Rajasthan in December.
 
 
