KOLKATA: When 38-year-old Pratik   introduced himself to transporters in the city and its suburbs, he showed them three things that would instantly win him their trust — photographs of the gala launch of his mega budget film where he is seen smiling at cameras with politicians and actors, a mind-boggling rental agreement (sometimes offering as much as Rs 50,000 for hiring an SUV) and a certificate that showed he was Tollywood’s upcoming producer who also had several other business interests, one being to put high-end cars on rent. That was last October and not many doubted this smooth-talking man.

 Early on Sunday, the suspected conman’s high-flying crime life came to an end. The Purba Jadavpur police, who have so far registered three FIRs against him and his gang, nabbed him from Aquatica in New Town. He was hiding with his aide and driver at the time of his arrest. During questioning, Bhattacharya said he had sold over 200 cars — from Swift Dzire to even tractors — through online marketplace OLX to people not only in Kolkata but even in Assam, Manipur and Nagaland. Police suspect he is part of a larger network that operates across east and northeast India.
 
  
  
 Investigators said Pratik’s modus operandi was simple. “He used to hire about 10 cars at a go and ask transporters to send them at some of the most recognizable locations of Kolkata — in the case of complainant   which led to the arrests, it was a hospital off EM Bypass. He then sold the vehicles on OLX at half the price within hours. Some of the vehicles were rented out at other destinations before being sold. He has sold over 200 vehicles. He has cases pending against him at Purba Jadavpur, Jadavpur, Electronic Complex at Salt Lake, Salkia in Howrah, Barasat and Titagarh in North 24 Parganas and even Belur,” said a source.
 
 Police said at least over a thousand of his victims had turned up at the court. Besides the public prosecutor, they had hired around two dozen lawyers as defacto complainants to stop his bail. All three accused were sent to police custody till March 2. The cops have so far recovered three vehicles from in and around Kasba and Baguiati.
 
