NAGPUR: It was a moment of immense pride and sorrow for Sushma, widow of martyred   (IAF) corporal  , when she was felicitated for her husband’s bravery. She was felicitated by   at a ceremony organized by Prahaar Samarj Jagruti Sanstha at Dr Hedgewar Smruti Mandir on Friday.

 As Sushma sat on the dais with her daughter Jigyasa on her lap, she was overwhelmed with emotions when she shared memories of her husband with the audience. Struggling to hold back tears, she said, “My husband always talked about our daughter joining the IAF. It was his dream. I want my daughter to follow his footsteps and become an IAF officer.”
 
 On November 18 last year, corporal Nirala was killed in an armed conflict between his team, the Garud Commando Force, Rashtriya Rifles and six militants at Hajin village in Kashmir. Nirala’s counter-insurgency team was given the task of eliminating militants who had occupied a house in the village.
 
 The team laid an ambush outside the house to block their escape routes. Nirala, armed with a light machine gun, positioned himself in close proximity to the house. In order to escape, the terrorists rushed outside, shooting and throwing grenades. Nirala bravely shot down two militants and injured two more. In the exchange, he sustained multiple small arms fire, but kept firing despite critical injuries. He however succumbed.
 
 The martyred corporal was posthumously awarded the Ashok Chakra this Republic Day for displaying valour and sacrificing life in protecting the country. He is the first airman to be awarded the highest peacetime honour for ground combat.
 
 “I am heartbroken that my Jyotiprakash is not with me. But I am proud he gave his life for Mother India. He always talked about his country and helping people, and taught our daughter to do the same,” said Sushma.
 
 Air Marshall Soman said, “Nirala’s wife and family are brave and strong though they suffered a huge personal loss. Words are meaningless to console the family of the martyred soldier. The entire country is indebted to Nirala’s sacrifice.”
 
 The Air Marshall told the audience that citizens have an obligation to support soldiers. He said, “Nirala has set an example for soldiers and they will be inspired to be ready for the highest sacrifice for protection of the motherland.”
 
 
