The database of the families of sanitary workers in   district reveals that most of them had schooling but very few entered higher secondary education. Only a few went to UG and PG programmes. As many as 3,386 have been to primary schools. It includes 1,062 of them studying till class five. In the next stage, 4,174 have been to high school.

 A total of 1,369 of them have been to school from 10th standard to Plus-Two and 510 of them are writing the board examinations. Others dropped out of school at the respective stages. Interestingly, 592 are pursuing or have a degree, whereas 411 are studying or have completed their post-graduation.
 
 The first phase of ‘New Wings’ is making the next generation employable. While efforts are on to help them complete studies till graduation, the district administration has also entered into an agreement with five leading career guidance, hands-on training service providers and facilitators.
 
 Twenty-five girls from the families of sanitary workers have started undergoing Montessori teacher training through  . 
 
 On Friday, 296 youth with qualification ranging from   to degree have enrolled for skill training programmes. This week, the first batch will go to Coimbatore to undergo one to three month industrial training in various leading industrial establishments, where they would get trained in niche industries such as repairing and manufacturing motors, pumps and components.
 
 "Talks are on to provide them placement too. The college goers will undergo a five-day residential soft skill training programme this summer so that they can clear the campus recruitment drive at ease in the next academic year. "Some of the training programmes even come with a stipend. The skill training programmes will commence for illiterate members of the family," assistant collector (Training)   said.
 
 R Murugan, a sanitary worker, said he did not want his son to take up the profession and helped him complete a polytechnic course. But the boy had trouble getting a job. He will be among those who are undergoing industrial training. The father hopes that it will help his son land in a good job.
 
 
