GUWAHATI/ AIZAWL/ IMPHAL/ SHILLONG: Minutes after   stepped down as   chief minister in Bangalore, Congress headquarters in all the northeastern states erupted in joy. Senior Congress leaders across the region hailed it as a victory of democracy. 

 In Mizoram, which goes to polls this year, the ruling Congress's finance minister Lalsawta described the political upheaval in Karnataka as a victory for democracy brought about by solidarity between Congress and JD (S) legislators even in the face of attempted poaching by BJP. 
 
 Chief minister and state Congress chief Lal Thanhawla accused the BJP of "raping democracy" and indulging in anti-constitutional activities by using the Karnataka governor to invite Yeddyurappa to form the government despite knowing that the Congress-JD (S) combine had the required numbers.
 
 He said that while the single largest parties were not invited to form the government in Manipur, Goa and Meghalaya, the Karnataka governor invited the single largest party (BJP) to form the government. "The game played by the BJP united other parties rather than dividing them," the five-time chief minister said.
 
 Lal Thanhawla also predicted that election to the 40-member Mizoram assembly might be postponed as the government at the Centre regards the Christian-dominated state as a difficult state for the saffron party. "The BJP needs more time to buy votes," he said, adding that the churches should also be wary of BJP's tactics. Election to the assembly is due by the first week of December.
 
 At Rajiv Bhawan in Guwahati, Assam Congress leaders gathered to celebrate the development in Karnataka. They burst crackers and distributed sweets. "Congratulations to Congress president Rahul Gandhi and JD(S) leadership for taking very prompt and bold action to save democracy in our country. Today's development in Karnataka is a victory of democracy," said Assam Congress president Ripun Bora.
 
 Expressing happiness over BJP's defeat in the trust vote, Congress leaders in Manipur said that such an episode has given a big blow to the unfair means which the saffron party uses to grab power. " BJP's vigorous attempt using unconstitutional and undemocratic practices to grab power, even after they won only 104 seats as the Congress-JD(S) alliance reached the magic figure, was nothing but an open challenge to democracy and the Constitution," Congress spokesman and legislator Kh Joykishan told TOI. 
 
 Echoing Joykishan, former deputy CM Gaikhangam said, "The downfall of BJP in Karnataka is a victory for the nation and all law-abiding citizens," said Gaikhangam, adding that this is the "beginning of the end for the saffron party."
 
 Meghalaya Congress said democracy and truth have prevailed in Karnataka. "Truth prevails," quipped Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Celestine Lyngdoh, even as he observed that the political equations in Karnataka and Meghalaya were not the same. "Here we have 20 seats, same as the National People Party (NPP)," the state Congress chief pointed out. The Congress, which had emerged as the single largest party after the last assembly polls, was way short of the majority and therefore could not form government. The NPP-led Meghalaya Democratic Alliance, which includes the state's regional parties besides BJP, NCP and Independents, is in power under the stewardship of chief minister Conrad Sangma.
 
 
