NAGPUR: Union minister and city MP Nitin   has cleared the hurdles to pave way for the   of two new 30-metre roads — Wanjari Nagar overhead water tank to Ajni railway over bridge (RoB) and Ajni railway station to Wardha road connecting South Ambazari Road. 

 He has also directed the   (NIT) to regularize unauthorized constructions that are compoundable in the Poonam Mall at Alankar Square and permit residential use in Poonam Mall located at Wardhaman Nagar. Both projects, which are mired in several controversies as reported by TOI over the years, have been constructed by N Kumar Projects and Infrastructure Limited.
 
 As reported by TOI on Saturday, Gadkari held a meeting with the officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), NIT, Mahametro, water resources department (WRD) and Indian Railways, at his Gokulpeth residence.
 
 Officials who attended the meeting told TOI that Gadkari has directed Central Railway officials to hand over the land on which the NMC had proposed to construct a road (Wanjari-Ajni). “Just as the NMC was about to start the work, Railway began constructing a toilet on the land. Gadkari said top railway officials have taken the decision to hand over the land to NMC,” said the sources.
 
 The sources added that Gadkari has directed Government Medical College and Hospital officials to vacate and demolish four housing quarters on the land proposed for the second road. “The Mahametro was asked by CM Devendra Fadnavis and Gadkari to construct this road as it falls on the Metro route. It has already started doing so from Wardha Road end but could not proceed as the land was with GMCH,” they said.
 
 Gadkari has also directed NIT officials to allow Kumar to convert a part of the Poonam commercial complex to residential. The mall is constructed on a plot leased out by the NIT. “By changing the user norm, the developer will have to pay reduced premium. Gadkari has asked the NIT officials to do whatever fits the rules,” the sources said.
 
 The union minister has also asked NIT officials to regularize unauthorized constructions that are compoundable as per norms in Poonam Mall at Alankar Square.
 
 In another decision, MahaMetro has been told to bear the total cost of repairing and strengthening the Ambazari lake embankment. “Gadkari said NMC cannot bear the cost. He has also directed WRD to prepare a plan soon and execute the works with the funds coming from MahaMetro,” the sources said.
 
 A few days ago, the High Court had directed NMC, WRD and MahaMetro to ensure safety of the Grade-I embankment.
 
 
