BHOPAL: A gang of thieves that drugs passengers and loots their belongings was arrested from Sehore district on Saturday. This is the same gang that drugged, killed and robbed a passenger in   in somewhere between Bhopal and Multai this year.

 
 Though the incident was reported on April 8, the accused gang members were arrested on Saturday — after a search of almost two months. According to police, the drug-and-rob gang would target trains running through nearby areas.
 
 Railway police said that the gang members would drug a passenger by offering them eatables or drinks laced with intoxicants, sedatives after befriending them.
 
 On April 8, three accused Krishnakan Verma,   and   boarded Dakshin Express from Multai and befriended Shyamrao, a resident of Multai. They offered him a soft rink.
 
 After a while, 20-year-old Shyamrao fell unconscious and the accused robbed him of his cell phone, cash and ornaments.
 
 Incidentally, the body of the victim was found on the tracks near Ganj Basoda in Vidisha district the same day.
 
 The youth’s family told the police that his mobile phone, gold earrings, silver chain and his wallet were missing when his body was found. During investigation, police found traces of drugs in his body, indicating that he was drugged and robbed and then most probably thrown off the train.
 
 Police traced the location of Shyamrao’s phone to Sehore.
 
 Police tracked it down to a youth named Amit in the district. When Amit was called for questioning, he told the police that he purchased the phone from one Krishnakant Verma through his friend Vijay for Rs 400.
 
 Krishnakant was taken for interrogation where he confessed to the crime. He told police that he had intoxicated Shyamrao and Yogesh had robbed him.
 
 The duo have been booked for murder, in addition to loot. They also told police that they have been looting passengers in moving trains for the last two years along with another accomplice — Neelesh. Krishnakant and Neelesh have a criminal record, said police. The accused have been arrested and further investigation is on.
 
 GRP (TI)   said that before April 8, a similar case was reported from Bhopal division this year in February.
 
 “Such incidents usually take place in long distance trains, where the robbers find it easy to strike up a conversation with passengers and take advantage of them,” he said, adding that the theives earn trust of unsuspecting passengers by befriending them and slip them a drug when they are not alert.
 
 The official said, some of the long-distance trains that are targeted by the drugand-rob gang are: GT Express, Tamil Nadu Express, Kerala Express, among others. “Most of the time the targets are passengers travelling on a general ticket.
 
