GOLD COAST: She went in as favourite and in a matter of few minutes, emerged with her reputation further enhanced. As for her rival, it was all over as   advanced to her maiden final in Commonwealth Games  . She had beaten long-time rival Anusha Dilrukshi of Sri Lanka without much ado. But there was disappointment for Mary Kom’s long-time training partner and ally, Sarita Devi who crashed out in the quarterfinals here on Wednesday.

 
 In a bout that failed to generate great excitement for the hundreds of cheering fans at the Oxenford Studios,   won an unanimous 5-0 verdict in the 46-48kg class, something which clearly didn’t go down well with her rival. “It was difficult as she tried to stay away,” Mary Kom said later. “It looked as if she was waiting for me to lower the guard.
 
 Dilrukshi, who had earlier lost to Mary in the South Asian Games in Guwahati, didn’t have the calibre to match the Indian’s skills. She said later it is always a difficult proposition to face Mary. “It was a tough fight. But it has always been like that. She is a southpaw and I’m the orthodox one so it is not easy,” Dilrukshi admitted.
 
 For Sarita, glimpses of her controversial bout in the last Asian Games would have flashed in the mind as she went down to Australia’s Anja Stridsman of Australia in the 60kg quarterfinal. But four years later, one saw a much mellowed Devi who quickly took the defeat in her stride.
 
 True to her style, Sarita went all out connecting a quite few. In the first round, she was the winner for Algerian judge Sid Mokretari but the other four gave it to the Aussie. The second round saw a unanimous decision but in the third she won in the eyes of Canadian judge Frank Fiaco but the others gave it to the Australian. “I fought well but I lost,” she said with a tinge of sadness even as a foreign coach came out of nowhere to offer his support. “I saw your bout and you were clearly the winner,” the coach consoled her blaming the referees for favouring the host boxers in many bouts.
 
