Rode (Moga): Representatives of Sikh organizations attended the inauguration of a gurdwara built in the memory of former Damdami Taksal chief Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale at his native Rode village in Moga district on Thursday. Proceedings were dominated by discussions on the storming of Akal Takht and killing of Bhindranwale in Amritsar in June 1984.

 Representatives of Sikh organizations, including heads of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak committee (SGPC), Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee (DSGMC), Damdami Taksal and jathedars of five Sikh takhts accused the then Union government headed by Indira Gandhi of denigrating the Sikh shrine and killing Bhindranwale. They described him as a martyr.
 
 Gurdwara Sant Khalsa has been built by Damdami Taksal at the behest of its chief Harman Singh Dhumma at Bhindranwale’s birthplace in Rode.
 
 Bhindranwale was killed on June 6, 1984, during Operation Bluestar, which was launched by the Army to flush out Sikh militants lodged inside the shrine.
 
 DSGMC president Manjit Singh G K was the most vocal while addressing the gathering. He said killing of Sikhs by Nirankaris marked the beginning of Punjab’s troubles in the late 1970s. He also said the then Union government used the Army to storm Akal Takht. According to him, in September 1983, Indira wrote to then UK PM Margaret Thatcher asking how to enter Akal Takhat.
 
 SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said successive Union governments had suppressed Sikhs. “We can never tolerate storming of the Akal Takht,” he said. Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh said Bhindranwale was a martyr who taught Sikhs to live and die with dignity.
 
 Damdami Taksal head Dhumma announced that February 22 would be observed as ‘Amrit Sanchar Divas’ at Rode as Bhindranwale had become a baptised Sikh on that day in 1960. Bhindranwale’s elder brother Harcharan Singh Rode and nephew Jasbir Singh Rode termed him ‘Sant Sipahi’ (saint soldier).
 
 Bhindranwale’s son Ishar Singh told TOI, “I feel proud that a gurdwara has been built in the memory of Sant Ji and people remember him many years of his death.”
 
 The village was decorated for the inauguration of the gurdwara and cutouts of Bhindranwale were placed at the entrance. 
 
 
