PATNA: Chief minister   Kumar on Tuesday said the Gangetic   (GDRC), which was initially proposed to be developed on Patna University (PU) campus, would be shifted to   ( ) if PU fails to provide land for the same.

 The CM said this in state assembly while intervening during parliamentary affairs minister Shrawan Kumar’s reply to the short notice question raised by RJD member Samir Kumar Mahaseth.
 
 “The government had asked the PU to provide land for the construction and establishment of GDRC, but no response has come from the university so far. One more request has been made to the university. If the response does not come from PU even this time, GDRC will be shifted to TMBU campus,” the CM said.
 
 Incidentally, National Ganga River Basin Authority (NGRBA), at its meeting chaired by the then PM   in October 2009, had declared the Gangetic dolphins as national aquatic animal. The Gangetic dolphins, found in the 65km stretch of the river between Sultanganj and Kahalgaon in Bhagalpur district, are considered endangered species.
 
 Earlier in 1991, the Centre had declared the Gangetic stretch between Sultanganj and Kahalagaon as Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary (VGDS) and also qualified it as the protected area, apart from including the river dolphins in the Schedule-I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. In the light of the decisions of NGRBA, the Centre also proposed to establish GDRC.
 
 Mahaseth pointed out that the Centre released Rs 29 crore to the state government for the construction and establishment of GDRC, but the money has still not been utilised. He said the Ganga river had 1,200 fresh water river dolphins.
 
 Giving the government’s reply, minister Shrawan Kumar informed the House about the stance of the PU administration on the land required, following which the CM made the intervention, suggesting that GDRC should be shifted to TMBU. Later, assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary expressed satisfaction that the members of the House had shown interest in questions related to nature and wildlife.
 
 Meanwhile, JD (U) member Shyam Rajak raised the issue of government’s indifference towards establishment of rhinoceros breeding centre at Sanjay Gandhi Zoological Park even though the zoo has highest number of rhinos in the country – twelve in total. 
 
 
