MEERUT: As the nation observes World Tuberculosis Day today,   presented a grim picture as the number of people suffering from the deadly disease shot up by 200 in 2017 as compared to 2016. According to data given by the district tuberculosis office here, the number of people suffering from   was 6,698 in 2016. But, it rose to 6,898 in 2017, a jump of 200.
 
  As per the officials in the health department, the surfacing of more   could be attributed to the door-to-door survey carried out by them to collect cough samples of the suspected patients.
  
  The officials said that the nationwide drive has led to surfacing of more cases. They also said that now more people will be able to avail the treatment after detection, which could not have been possible without the drive.
  
  Three such phases of the nationwide drive has taken place in Meerut from August last year till March 2018.
  
  “Not only did the number of tuberculosis cases increased from 2016 to 2017, but also the number of suspected cases, whose cough samples were taken also increased from 32,122 in 2016 to 35,200 in 2017. The increase in the number of cases is a positive result because at least these patients are coming on surface and not going unreported unlike earlier,” said Dr. MS Fauzdar, Meerut district tuberculosis officer.
  
  However, even though the number of cases of TB in Meerut has increased, it might only be the tip of the iceberg. Health authorities say that as pharmacists and medical practitioners fail to provide regular statistics on the number of tuberculosis cases, an estimate of at least 3,000 more such cases, which go to the private health sector, go unreported.
  
  “The medical practitioners and pharmacists in the district do not report the tuberculosis cases that they treat due to which the actual number of cases of the disease do not come to fore. There are at least 300 medical practitioners who treat tuberculosis and at least 1,700 pharmacists in the district.
  
  “Against this backdrop, a notification by the ministry of health and family welfare dated March 16 and published in the central government gazette has notified that doctors, hospital authorities and chemists will be sent to jail if they fail to notify cases of tuberculosis to the respective district health authorities,” said Dr. Fauzdar.
  
  Tuberculosis is of two types. First is pulmonary tuberculosis, which happens in the lungs and leads to 80% of the cases. The second is extra pulmonary tuberculosis, which leads to the formation of cysts in different parts of the body and contributes to 20% of the cases of the disease.
  
  The district has a total of 18 TB units, 41 microscopic centres and 673 DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short-Course) centres for detection of the disease and the medicines to cure TB are available at all primary health centres.
