Bollywood singer   was on a spiritual sojourn to Varanasi on Wednesday. The 'Suraj Hua Maddham' singer visited   and later also attended the   at Dashshwamedha Ghat. Sonu, sitting on an elevated platform, stayed for the entire arti. Soaking in, not only the spiritual feel of the ritual, he seemed to enjoy the musical aspect of the arti too, like the ringing of the bells and the devotional music which is an intrinsic part of the ceremony. Special prasad was given to him by Sushant Mishra of the Ganga Seva Nidhi "It is an amazing experience," is how he described Ganga Arti. 

  
  The singer later visited   and even sat in the audience at the Sankat Mochan Music Festival, enjoying the Odissi dance performance of celebrated danseuse  . As soon as the audience realised that the singer was present among them, they burst out into a loud applause and cheers. Sonu was then honoured by Prof  , mahant of Sankat Mochan Temple along with singer  . Later, the Hans Mat Pagli singer crooned his popular number 'Kal Ho Na Ho' in his characteristic style while the audience clapped along. 
 On his Varanasi visit, Sonu said, "We, my brother and my team, had to go to Rewa for a day so I decided to come to Banaras and spend a day here. I remember I had visited Varanasi 20 years ago when I was doing Sa Re Ga Ma. Uske baad ek baar aur mein wahan gaya tha. As soon as we reached, we freshened up and in the evening itself we went to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, then we attended the Ganga Arti and finally went to the Sankat Mochan Temple. That was a very ethereal experience as I was sitting and listening to all these stalwarts perform there," said the 'Kal Ho Na Ho' singer, adding, "It was really sweet of Mishraji to felicitate me. In fact, he also invited me to perform there but I refused because I’m not that proficient in classical singing. And I feel that one should not try to act over smart and try to put ones nose into everything. My forte is something else and I’ll be crossing the line to put myself into a situation ki jahaan itne bade-bade singers ga rahe hain aur main bhi wahan baith kar gaa raha hoon. Although they have requested me to come next year. So I may prepare something not classical but maybe something devotional, so dekhte hain, agar hota hai toh theek hai."
 
  
  Sonu Nigam in Varanasi (BCCL)
 
 Making the most of his visit, Sonu and his group halted for the night and the next day early morning experienced the Subah-E-Banaras and later, visited the Kaal Bhairav temple. "Main itne temples mein gaya hoon ki mujhe sabke naam bhi ab yaad nahi hai," said Sonu, adding, "But what I enjoyed most was the food we had at Om Shri Ram Bhandar, about a 100 years-old shop. Wahan humne khoob sari kachori khayi. And raat ko we had the meethi paani puri and baati chokha which was absolutely divine. So ek din mein humne poora Banaras nichod liya Woh kehte hain na ki poora nichod liya."
 The singer later visited Sankat Mochan Temple and even sat in the audience at the Sankat Mochan Music Festival, enjoying the Odissi dance performance of celebrated danseuse Sonal Mansingh. As soon as the audience realised that the singer was present among them, they burst out into a loud applause and cheers. Sonu was then honoured by Prof Vishambhar Nath Mishra, mahant of Sankat Mochan Temple along with singer Anup Jalota. Later, the 'Hans Mat Pagli' singer crooned his popular number 'Kal Ho Na Ho' in his characteristic style while the audience clapped along. 
  
  
 - With inputs by Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
