PUNE: The   is mulling over the idea of constructing two   in a bid to   traffic on the busy   in Swargate.

 Of the two roads under consideration, one will connect Satara Road to Shankarsheth Road, while the other will link Satara Road with Sarasbaug. Both these roads will serve as a bypass as vehicles heading to Sarasbaug or Shankarsheth Road will not be required to pass via the busy junction.
 
 
  
  
 
 The roads are likely to be developed during execution of the multimodal hub project, which is being planned by the Maharashtra   Rail Corporation (MahaMetro).
 
 Sources in MahaMetro said enough space can be made available for alignments of these roads. “The road linking Shankarsheth Road with Satara Road can be planned through the existing plot of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) located near Swargate. For alignment of the road to Sarasbaug, a portion of the land for water works can be utilized,” they said.
 
 MahaMetro officials said they were working on the multimodal transport hub plan and will consider provisions of the two roads while preparing the project plan. 
 
 MahaMetro’s managing director Brijesh Dixit said Swargate multimodal transport hub is coming up as a unique model. “The facilities under the project will cater to the requirements of public transport services, commuters and private vehicles. A detailed planning is under way and MahaMetro will take along MSRTC, PMPML and PMC in project planning and execution,” he said.
 
 Dixit said the main objective of the transport hub was to decentralize the traffic on the Swargate junction (Jedhe Chowk). “The two proposed roads could play a crucial role in this direction,” he added.
 
 The footfall at Swargate Chowk is likely to go up after commissioning of the Metro rail station here. When asked about the possible solution to this issue, the MahaMetro officials said, “We will chalk out a plan under the multimodal hub to cater to the additional footfall.”
 
  had recently commissioned a flyover at Swargate Chowk with two wings, each of which landing on Shankarsheth and Sarasbaug roads. The multimodal hub would integrate these facilities. “As of now, the MahaMetro does not have any proposal to demolish the existing flyover and grade separator,” the officials said.
 
 MahaMetro also plans to hold a joint meeting with all the stakeholders in March, in which the corporation will present basic plan of the transport hub and will also hold discussions on it. 
 
 
