MUMBAI: A  ,  , was found murdered, his body wrapped in a bedsheet and tucked under an iron cot at his Gorai residence on Friday. The police have arrested the 70-year-old man’s son, Purushottam, and his aide, Deepak Babar, an auto driver, for the  . 

 According to the police, Bhima was estranged from his family and lived alone in Gorai. His wife and Purushottam live in Versova while his older son, Shyamlal, lives in Andheri with his family. Cops said that Bhima was suspecting his wife of having an affair with Deepak Babar and the couple would fight over the issue. “Last week, when Bhima’s wife visited him with one of their sons, grandson and Babar, they had a fight,” said an official. Neighbours told TOI they had heard Bhima fight. 
 
 A day later, Purushottam and Babar visited Bhima around 9am and strangled him. “Purushottam and Babar bound Bhima’s arms and feet, wrapped the body in a bedsheet, tied it up and put it under his cot. The two men then waited for seven hours to ferry the body to another location for disposal, but they couldn’t. They then locked the house around 4pm and left,” claimed an official.
 
 Two days after the murder, the accused returned and decided to take the body away. “But as the neighbourhood was teeming with people for a festival, the accused chickened out. As days passed, the body began to decompose and emitted a foul smell,” he added. 
 
 “Earlier, the neighbours thought it was a dead rat in one of the drains. But when they could not find any rat, they realized the smell was originating from Bhima’s house or another vacant place whose occupant visited only once a fortnight,” said senior inspector Gunaji Sawant. When the police were called and the two houses were checked, Bhima’s body was found. Cops tracked down Bhima’s family and on interrogation, Purushottam admitted to the crime. Babar was picked up from Bandra. 
 
 “The accused were arrested and produced before a magistrate court in Borivli on Saturday. They have been remanded in police custody till February 1,” said zonal DCP Vikram Deshmane. 
 
 Purushottam has told the police that he was miffed with his father for suspecting his mother’s fidelity and fighting with the family. “Bhima had a short temper and would often reprimand the children in the locality for making noise. He would call locals for help when he was unable to do some of his chores,” a neighbour told TOI. 
 
 
