KOLKATA: A post on the alleged bashing up of a couple for embracing each other at the Dum Dum station sucked   into a controversy. Though the comment justifying the attack was deleted shortly after it was posted on Tuesday, it had gone viral by then. The avalanche of criticism that ensued forced Metro authorities to convene a press conference on Wednesday where the spokesperson termed the post ‘fake’ and said the matter would be probed.

 
  
  
 
 “We (Metro Railway) had made only one post on May 1 and that mentioned that we are against moral policing and trying to inquire into the incident even in the absence of a formal complaint. I think, someone either got access to our official   account or had made a fake post regarding the comment supporting the passengers who thrashed the couple. We will ask Kolkata Police to probe into this fake post,”   spokesperson   said in the presence of general manager Ajay  .
 
 Sources said three officials at Metro were authorised to make a post on the Facebook account that has been verified with a blue tick and has nearly 31,000 followers. “We don’t know if someone from our organisation did it or it was a fake post. We will ask the police to look into it. As of now, we have changed the password,” an official said.
 
 However, the cyber crime division of Kolkata Police had not received any complaint on the ‘fake post’ from Metro authorities till Wednesday evening.
 
 Metro Rail has been at the receiving end ever since the incident happened with eyewitnesses alleging that no employee had intervened. According to one, the thrashing happened in front of the station superintendent’s room. Even Metro Railway security personnel did not step in.
 
 At the end of the media conference, Vijayvargiya read out from a statement that passengers should not indulge in an act that could cause inconvenience to fellow passengers and maintain the pride and dignity of Kolkata Metro.
 
 “We would sincerely request all commuters to conduct themselves in a manner so as not to tarnish the Kolkata’s cultural heritage,” said Vijayvargiya. Asked if the statement was meant for the couple or the men who had beaten them, Vijayvargiya refused to explain.
 
