ASOLA (YAVATMAL): “There is not even a grain of tur (pulses) left at home. Even the two bags grown at our fields had to be sold for meeting the expenses of my husband’s treatment,” says   Powar sitting in a dimly-lit room of her house. Her husband Kashiram died in February this year after over five months of kidney illness. The family claims to have ended up spending over Rs2 lakh for his treatment.

 “Everything we had was sold, the flock of goats, bulls and even the last grain reaped from the fields. Now we are depending on the grains sold at ration shops, which is not available,” Kalavati said.
 
 Two persons have died due to kidney ailments this year at the village. Powar was followed by  . If the Powars are now facing financial crisis, it’s worse for the   family. While Manu, who was in his 60s, died last week taking the toll to 14, his 35-year-old son   is undergoing dialysis at a private hospital in Amravati. A kidney transplant is out of question for the family.
 
 The family has already spent Rs60,000 on Manu’s treatment and now undergoing the similar ordeal. Sandeep, who is also suffering from kidney ailment, is living at his in-laws’ place at Tiwasa, close to the hospital in Amravati where he was shifted later. The family of farm workers has no other breadwinner except the younger son Nilesh, who has to now fend for a family of six dependents.
 
 “The doctors said my father’s both kidneys have failed, and we were helpless. My brother is also suffering. It was because of the water it seems,” he said.
 
 Amid the crowd which had gathered at the panchayat office here, many came forward claiming that they suffered from a kidney disease.
 
 Thirty-five-year-old Sandeep Ghadve shows his medical papers. Both Sandeep and his mother are suffering from kidney malfunctioning and undergoing treatment at private hospitals. “I am too weak to take up hard labour. It began with symptoms like body ache, pain in the lower abdomen and finally lack of appetite,” said Sandeep, who has an eight-acre farm. His mother, who reported similar symptoms, said summers get worse for her as she is too weak to even move out of the house during the season.
 
 A much healthier Arjun Rathore was another resident of the village among others who reported of kidney ailment. In his 50s, he said timely treatment has brought the disease under control.
 
 However, for those like Rathore and Powar it was too late before they could begin the treatment. Rathore survived for a month after he took ill. The treatment continued at government hospital in Yavatmal for a week before he died, says his son. The Powars went to three different doctors before going to medical college at Sewagram, Wardha. After a few rounds of dialysis, Kashiram was brought back home where he died in February.
 
 
