CHENNAI: The state health department has started regularising gestational   in fertility clinics, an unintended outcome of the government’s move to make registration of pregnancies mandatory to improve maternal and infant health and reduce fatalities.

 With mandatory registration of  , the names, health status and medical history of all women recruited as surrogates by fertility clinics will now be available with the department. 
 
 “We will be able to monitor the health of surrogates as well as keep tabs on the number of times a woman’s services are used,” said director of public health Dr  , who is also the registrar of births and deaths. 
 
 “Multiple deliveries can increase risk of maternal mortality,” he said. Birth certificates for the newborns will be issued with the names of the legal parents after the fertility hospital submits medical records.
 
 In January, the health department made it mandatory for pregnant women to register under the Pregnancy Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluations (PICME) programme to obtain birth certificates for babies. The mother’s 12-digit reproductive and child health (RCH) identification number given by the urban or village nurses after verifying pregnancy should be submitted by the hospital to register birth. “It was done to ensure that expectant mothers got appropriate care. In the process, we are able to plug several other loopholes,” he said.
 
 Earlier this month, a man and his wife told the registry that they had “an agreement” to adopt one of the three children a woman was carrying. The woman had conceived through fertility treatment and another childless couple had promised to adopt one child. 
 
 “Since no hospitals can do this legally, the couple approached us. We have asked them to go through the legal process for adoption,” said a senior official in the registry.
 
 Doctors’ bodies and social welfare and child rights activists have welcomed mandatory registration of pregnancy as it could prevent sex selective abortion and illegal adoptions. “But officials should be sensitive to women and children’s rights and confidentiality,” said child rights activist   of   for Child Welfare-TN.
 
  B, 43, has been a surrogate twice, and has two children of her own. “I became a surrogate to earn some money but compulsory registration would mean my identity would be known to everyone. I’m happy to hear there will be better care for women like me but our privacy must be ensured too.”
 
 Another woman wanted the registry to drop the name of the child’s father from the birth certificate as they had divorced before the birth. The registry does this for single mothers when they submit an affidavit saying they underwent artificial insemination. Now, a letter from the hospital has become mandatory. “The woman has moved the court,” the official said.
 
 
