PATNA: The   (ED) has tracked down the investments made by Maoist leader   in the construction projects of a Bihar MLC belonging to a party which is part of the Grand Alliance. Sahni is lodged in Muzaffarpur jail. 
 
 ED sources said the MLC owns a real estate firm and is engaged in several construction projects of railways in north Bihar. The ED on Tuesday issued summons to Sahni, his wife Chandeshwari Devi and son   alias   for interrogation in this regard. 
  
 Sources said several MLAs and MLCs engaged in government contract used to pay levy to Sahni who, in return, invested the money in their construction projects. 
  
 Sources said when arrested on May 11 last year, Sahni, the commander of CPI(Maoist) sub-zonal committee of Vaishali and Muzaffarpur, admitted that he had amassed properties worth at least Rs10 crore in Bihar and several MLAs and MLCs paid him levy. He had also told the police about charging hefty levy from third party contractors of Gammon India Private Ltd engaged in executing road projects in Bihar. 
  
 “Sahni purchased land in several areas in Vaishali and Muzaffarpur in the name of his wife, who is only an anganwadi sevika in Vaishali district. With no other sources of income, it is clear that the properties had been bought with the money collected as levy,” ED sources said, adding the investigation was still going on. 
  
 “More than a dozen cases of murder, extortion, dacoity and other heinous crimes are lodged against Sanhi and his son,” sources said, adding Sahni’s nephew Dilip Sahni is also a Maoist. 
  
 ED is also investigating the movable and immovable properties of Maoists Sandeep Yadav and Pradyuman Sharma. Sandeep, wanted in 88 cases, carries a reward of Rs5 lakh on his head and is in charge of Bihar-Jharkhand Special Area Committee (BJ-SAC) of the CPI(Maoist). Pradyuman is also wanted in 51 cases and carries a reward of Rs50,000 on his head. He is in charge of special area committee (SAC) of Magadh zone. Both are millionaires. ED had attached Sandeep’s properties worth at least Rs86 lakh a couple of weeks back. 
  
  
