KOLKATA: In a city where accidents, particularly involving buses, fill up newspaper pages every morning, here’s one bus   who has been doing the job for six years, without ever being involved in an accident.

 Forty-two-year-old   Poddar, a mother of two, has seldom broken road rules, but she’s smashed through the glass ceiling: she is possibly Kolkata’s only   bus driver, who gets behind the wheels of a   minibus every day. She teams up with her husband, Shibeswar, the conductor.
 
 “My husband had to quit driving because of an accident he suffered on another person’s bus,” says Pratima, who leaves home at 3.30am sharp every morning for the first trip. “As he can no longer drive, I took the wheels, and am proud to say I never had an accident. I can drive as fast as any of my male colleagues, but I ensure I drive safe.”
 
 Policemen at Howrah station as well as regulars on her route identify her as a careful and safe driver on Kolkata’s streets. “I have rarely seen her overtake or pick up and drop passengers on the run, which is a common practice. We need more drivers like her,” said a sergeant at Howrah bridge.
 
 Pratima conceded that there have been occasional citation cases (minor traffic violations) for picking up passengers at non-designated places, and for stop-line violations, but there hasn’t been a single collision. “My husband had an accident in 2011 that left him unfit to drive a heavy vehicle. That is when I took up the steering wheel, and my husband became the conductor of the same bus. Life, of course, is a bit hectic considering I have to also do all household chores, but this is the only way we can earn enough to pay the   of the   and fund the education of our daughters,” says Pratima, a BA Part I dropout.
 
 Elder daughter Rakhee is a known name in the Bengal gymnastics circuit, having represented the state in the sport and swimming, and studies mathematics honours at Jadavpur University. Younger daughter   is in Class IX, and regularly tops her class.
 
 Pratima says she had learnt to drive at a young age out of sheer passion, but had never thought of taking it up as a profession. Shibeswar used to drive a minibus, and life was rolling just fine. The family had even bought a bus of their own that Shibeswar drove and Pratima had worked in as a conductor for a few days. But then, the accident happened. “My husband was bedridden, and our children were young. I tried some jobs at private firms but found none. Then I thought of taking up driving. I drove ambulances and taxis for a few weeks, after which my husband got a little better and made me learn how to drive a bus. I soon got a licence and now I regularly drive from Birati to Howrah and back throughout the day with my husband,” she said.
 
 Pratima says life on the road has been relatively smooth with the support of policemen, transport officials, male colleagues and her family, though she has never had it easy. “I have not been given any concessions anywhere, and drive along the same routes as men do. I have to face the same competition as the other drivers of the route do, and I enjoy it thoroughly,” she said.
 
 Just like a group of intrepid women in their 20s about whom TOI had reported earlier this month for choosing to ply auto-rickshaws in a city where their colleagues are known to be violent and boorish, Pratima too is unique in her sphere, being the only woman bus driver in a male-dominated transport industry. “People keep asking me what challenges I faced as a woman driver. I tell them that everything seems difficult on the face of it, but what is important is how we deal with it.”
 
 
