NEW DELHI: In a   for the   of  , the Delhi   on Wednesday agreed to   Election Commission of India’s decision and restrained it from announcing fresh bypolls till the next date of hearing, January 29. Justice Vibhu Bakhru also called for all the records relating to the EC proceedings that led to a recommendation for disqualifying the 20 lawmakers. The EC’s decision was approved by the President on January 20.

 But the court declined the former MLAs’ prayer to stay the notification brought out by the Centre or to allow them to continue as MLAs.
 
 “Don't take precipitative steps that will aggravate the situation...nothing to happen between now and the next date of hearing. Produce the record on or before the next date of hearing," the judge said, indicating that the court expects the poll body to restrain itself till HC gives a decision on the batch of petitions filed by the disqualified 20 AAP MLAs.
 
 While EC tried to argue that the petitions should be heard by a division bench, Justice Bakhru made it clear that the issues raised in the plea require proper consideration and that from January 29, the court may conduct day-to-day hearings. Issuing a notice to the EC and union law ministry, the court made it clear it will extend its direction restraining the EC from taking any "precipitative measures" if required.
 
 HC’s interim order came after senior advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for five of the 20 AAP MLAs, submitted that if the poll panel is not restrained, the whole purpose of the petitions will be defeated. 
 
 Advocate Amit Sharma, appearing for the EC, contended that there was no reason to disturb the current position till the next date of hearing and sought to delink Delhi government as a party to the petitions. He argued that since the Delhi government had not challenged the EC's order till date, it has no role to play.
 
 The petitions before the HC have been filed by eight AAP MLAs challenging the Centre's notification disqualifying 20 of them for holding an  . Earlier in the day, the court had said it will hear the plea in the afternoon as it was unable to conduct a hearing in other matters due to the crowd in the courtroom. The court was teeming with AAP MLAs, their supporters, lawyers and a few AAP members apart from the media.
 
 On January 19, EC had made the recommendation while deciding on a plea by advocate Prashant Patel, seeking disqualification of 21 AAP MLAs for holding the office of parliamentary secretaries as it amounted to holding an office of profit. Proceedings against Jarnail Singh were dropped after he resigned as the Rajouri Garden MLA to contest the Punjab assembly polls. A day later the ministry of law and justice issued a notification that the President had held that the 20 MLAs stand disqualified under Section 15(1)(a) of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act.
 
 
