PUNE: The   (MIDC) and the Federation of Chakan Industries (FCI) have will set up a waste   for disposal of non-hazardous   from Chakan, Talegaon and Talawade industrial areas.

 A preliminary survey of the three locations revealed that as much as nine tonnes of this waste lay without proper disposal and needs to be collected every day.
  
  
 Dilip Batwal, secretary of FCI, said, “We have already zeroed in on a place to set up the plant in Chakan industrial area. The actual work will commence at the site within the next few weeks. The capacity of the waste treatment plant would be up to 15 metric tonnes. We plan to produce fertilizers and gas from this waste which would be sold by MIDC authorities.”
 
 The FCI would hire 35 staff and will need vehicles that would ferry to companies in the locality to collect waste door-to-door. The team also plans to maintain records of waste generated by each of the companies, details of which would be uploaded on their website, so that each company would come to know how much waste has been collected.
 
 A senior official from MIDC told TOI, “We have allocated Rs 9 crore for setting up this plant. It will be operated by the federation for the first 10 years.”
 
 A senior manager from a private company based in Chakan industrial area, said it is unfortunate to see heaps of garbage lying at many places in the industrial areas. “A large number of foreign nationals visit companies located here regularly. The impression they must be getting on seeing such garbage dumping will not be good. Why will they think of setting up their businesses here? Our authorities have failed to provide basic civic facilities for the industries,” he said.
 
 Another official said, “Several small units do not have a proper facility to discard their canteen waste. They blatantly dump it in open plots of the industrial areas, either in the early hours or at night. Authorities should identify these units and take strict action for causing a nuisance and polluting the area."
 
 The MIDC has established a plant only for disposal of hazardous industrial waste at Ranjangaon MIDC area. Several companies, including multi-national companies, have taken up this issue during meeting with the district collector authorities, but could not get a concrete solution,” Batwal added.
 
