CHANDIGARH: A 30-year-old undertrial died under mysterious circumstances in Model   Jail after he developed health complications on Tuesday.

 Police have got the post-mortem conducted and the exact reason of the death is yet to be made clear, even as jail authorities claimed  , the inmate, was a   and under medical supervision inside the jail.
 
 Jail officials said Kapil was a chronic drug addict and arrested in a case under   Act. The next hearing in the case at the Chandigarh district and sessions court was scheduled for January 8.
 
 Kapil, a resident of Burail village, Sector 45, complained of acute pain in the chest and abdomen to jail authorities on Tuesday, said sources. Initially, jail authorities provided him medical aid, but he did not show any recovery and fell unconscious.
 
 Later, a jail ambulance was called and Kapil was taken to   (GMCH), Sector 32, for treatment, where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 Jail authorities said Kapil had a history of drug abuse and was under treatment for drug de-addiction inside the jail.
 
 “As Kapil was a drug addict, he was undergoing treatment in jail. Doctors had put him under a regular check-up and on medicines. It’s doubtful he died of withdrawal symptoms,” said a jail official.
 
 Police informed his family members and handed over the body to them on Wednesday.
 
 O P  ,   (prisons), said Kapil also suffered fits.
 
 “He was a chronic drug addict and arrested with contraband last year. Since then he was lodged in Burail jail. He also had a problem of fits and was under treatment. Kapil was also arrested by   police under NDPS act and was convicted and sentenced for six months,” said Mishra.
 
 According to jail manual, police initiated inquest proceedings in the case and executive magistrate would carry out an inquiry in this case, the IG said.
 
 Complained of chest, abdomen pain
 
 Kapil was a drug addict and arrested in a case under NDPS Act, according to jail officials
 
 He complained of acute pain in chest and abdomen to jail authorities on Tuesday
 
 He was declared brought dead at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh
 
 Officials said he was under treatment for drug de-addiction in the jail
 
 It’s doubtful he died of withdrawal symptoms, said a jail official
 
 O P Mishra, IG (prisons), said Kapil used to suffer fits
 
 
