MADURAI: The city corporation on Friday made public the names of the top 100 property tax defaulters within its limits who cumulatively owed it a whopping Rs 47.64 crore. Curiously enough, it later ‘updated’ the list in which the names of the top 38 defaulters were seen removed. 

 The disclosure was made as per Proactive Disclosure under Section 4(1) (b) of   Act, 2005. The defaulters include 22 public sector offices and leading private educational institutes. Interestingly, the list (available on the link www.maduraicorporation.co.in/DefaultiersList.aspx) was released on December 15, 2017 but had failed to evoke any response from the defaulters, it is pointed out. 
 
  RTI activist and founder of   (for RTI awareness)   hailed the corporation’s move to disclose the list of defaulters. However, he said that even after a month elapsed since the list was published, it remained unchanged on February 2. This showed that the disclosure had in no way forced the defaulters to pay their dues. Among the prominent defaulters were public sector offices, which had been evading taxes for years together. In fact, some of them had not paid their dues for over 42 years, almost since the corporation came into being.
 
 The second largest municipal body in the state, Madurai city became a municipality as per the Town Improvement Act of 1865 and was upgraded into a corporation on May 1, 1971. It was expanded from the earlier 72 wards to 100 wards in September 2010. The total tax dues from the first ten defaulters on the list added up to Rs 17.70 crore most of which was owed by private educational institutes. Hakkim says that the court had recently asked the Madurai corporation as to why it should not hike taxes to meet its financial requirements. ``This made me think of sending a speed post on tax evasion in the city and I am extremely happy that the court has now ordered the sealing of defaulting premises,’’ he said.
 
 The list which was published on December 15, 2017 stated that the district collectorate had to pay tax to the tune of Rs 28 lakh from 2016 while the district court has dues worth Rs 19.87 lakh. Various PWD offices have been defaulting for over 20 years to the tune of crores of rupees. 
 
 Interestingly, the corporation updated its previous list at 18.24.59 P.M on Friday in which the first 38 defaulters of the December 15 list were removed. In the updated list, the first among the top 100 defaulters had dues of Rs 3,48,2112 with no information on the year from which the tax was not paid. Corporation sources said that the collector had   and that the list had changed when it was updated on Friday evening. The problem was with the new software that the corporation was using. Many of the previous defaulters had filed cases and hence did not figure on the list now, they claimed.
 
 
