JALANDHAR:   got a major jolt ahead of the ensuing byelection in Shahkot, where its candidate during the 2017 assembly polls, Dr Amarjit Singh Thind has announced to join SAD. Confirming his decision to join SAD in presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal at a function being held at Mehatpur on Wednesday, Thind said the recent episode of AAP convener   tendering an apology to   and party’s Punjab unit remaining divided over it were the two major reasons behind his exit from the party.

 During the run up to Gurdaspur Lok Sabha seat bypoll in October 2017, candidates from five out of nine assembly segments in the constituency, had dumped AAP to join either SAD or  .
 
 “Party contested the election on two issues — corruption and drugs. On corruption, the issue of giving two Rajya Sabha tickets to two entirely new faces in Delhi had raised questions. Kejriwal tendering an apology to Mjithia and the issue of drugs has also been lost. Moreover, the 20 MLAs remain strongly divided as has become clear from the controversy around apology,” Thind told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 “Kejriwal should have at least informed the state leaders before apologizing. They made thousands of volunteers put up hoardings against Majithia and but the party supremo himself backtracked from the allegations he levelled,” he said. When asked that if he was uncomfortable with the apology then join the very party to whose leader it was tendered, he replied that it apparently false allegations were levelled and there as an attempt to mislead the people. 
 
 “People are already disappointed with Congress government and I have full faith in Sukhbir Badal’s leadership,” he said, adding “people are now saying that Akali government was better and Sukhbir has vision.”
 
 Incidentally, at a press conference organized by him in Jalandhar on March 12, Thind had alleged that illegal mining in the constituency was happening due to the patronage of Congress leaders but SAD never raised its voice. 
 
 The function being held at Mehatpur is also being organized by Dr Thind. The byelection in Shahkot has been necessitated due to death of sitting SAD MLA Ajit Singh Kohar who never lost any of the five elections he contested from 1997.
 
 
