PATNA: Raids against suspended Muzaffarpur   Vivek Kumar continued for the fourth day on Thursday with the Bihar Police’s special vigilance unit (SVU) seizing another Rs 1.75 crore from five bank lockers at   in UP.

 The 2007-batch IPS officer is a native of Saharanpur in UP. Prior to getting into IPS, he was an Indian Revenue Service officer. The SVU has lodged a disproportionate assets case against the Bihar-cadre cop. 
 
 The latest recoveries of cash were made from five of the seven bank lockers, keys of which were seized from the residence of suspended cop’s in-laws in Aryapuri Colony at Muzaffarnagar on Tuesday night.
 
 “One locker opened on Thursday is in the name of Ved Prakash Karnwal and Uma Rani Karnwal, parents of Vivek’s wife Nidhi Karnwal, in the Vijaya Bank, while the two others are in  . The two remaining lockers are in Canara Bank and  ,” an SVU officer told TOI and added four LIC policies were recovered from yet another locker opened on Thursday.
 
 On Wednesday, the raiding teams seized Rs 18 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 2.25 lakh from one locker and fixed deposits worth Rs 1.65 crore and jewellery worth Rs 30 lakh from another locker. Both these lockers are in the State Bank of India’s Ansari Road branch at Muzaffarnagar.
 
 Soon after lodging an FIR on Monday against Vivek, wife Nidhi and his four matrimonial relatives, including brother-in-law Nikhil Karnwal and his wife Shelly Karnwal, the SVU raided Vivek’s office and official residence at Muzaffarpur. Raids were also conducted at his parental house at Saharanpur and in-laws’ house at Muzaffarnagar. On Tuesday, the state government suspended Vivek.
 
 “We have so far unearthed cash to the tune of Rs 2.18 crore, fixed deposits worth Rs 1.65 crore and jewellery worth Rs 37.75 lakh, including the seizures made from the accused and his in-laws’ residences. An illegal carbine was also recovered from the SSP’s residential office,” the SVU official said, adding they were gathering details of the IPS officer’s immovable assets.
 
 
