Sometime in April last year, master blaster Sachin Tendulkar shared a video of himself as he drove around asking people to wear helmets. For Mumbai resident  , this rang several bells. The social media entrepreneur too, wanted to make people aware about just how essential the helmet is to road safety. Read on about his interesting journey that continues as he goes on around India to spread a simple message, ‘Helmet daalo!’

 Thirty-year-old Vinay Maurya loves biking and has been doing so since college. He would go on longer rides from state to state and even take a group of amateur bikers on scenic bike tours. Last year, during a solo journey from Karnataka to Goa, he saw an accident that changed the course of his life. He recalls, “The accident was such that I immediately looked away. But even from what I saw, I remember shivering all over. What stayed with me though, was a sentence by one of the policemen present on the scene. He said, ‘Helmet pehna hota toh shayad bach jaata.’”
 
 This incident stayed with him and made him feel like there would be something that he could do for motorists. He says, “I observed that people wear helmets within Mumbai, however once you cross Dahisar, you hardly see people wearing them. So, whenever I would go on longer rides, I would tell other riders in dhabas and at toll booths who weren’t wearing helmets to wear them. I was hesitant at first because I didn’t want to seem like some crazy guy giving tips. I knew I had to make people aware, but I also knew it couldn’t be randomly done like this.”
 
 
  
 
 
 In April last year, Sachin Tendulkar came out with a series of videos where he was seen telling bikers to put on a helmet. “Promise me, aap helmet daaloge!”, he could be seen saying. It quickly became the subject of hilarious memes, but this is exactly what Vinay needed as a keyword to name his own personal campaign. “Let me tell you, I found the parodies quite funny. But when I saw Sachin Tendulkar do just the thing I wanted to do, I went all out after that,” he adds.
 Vinay then planned a trip from Mumbai to Ahmedabad, where he printed stickers and set off to spread his message. He says, “Whenever I would stop at dhabas or other food joints, I would hand out my stickers and request helmetless riders to put on their helmets. I had no fear, even if the guy was like 6 feet 5 inches tall. Besides, I was just talking about their safety.”
 
 
 If Sachin were to ask you to wear a helmet, you would definitely not take it lightly. But does it work when Vinay asks people to wear a helmet? “When people see a   wearing his kit with all the safety in check, it does make a difference. I remember this one time in Vadodara where I stopped for three days, a man came up to me when I was packing my gear on the bike. When he asked me, I told him about my campaign. I even gave him statistics from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, which stated that every hour around 17 people die because they don’t wear a helmet. On hearing me, the man asked me if I could wait for 10 more minutes and called his son and told me to talk to him. The duo confessed that they had never worn helmets and decided to go out and buy a set for themselves after the talk.”
 
 
  
 
 Another encounter that he captured on his helmet-camera shows him being rebuked by two bikers after a biker-meet in Gujarat. He elaborates, “As the meet got over and we were leaving, I saw two bikers with their helmets resting on the handle. I requested them to wear a helmet and they rebuffed me. So, I gave them my sticker and told them, ‘Good luck’. After a few minutes, I saw someone giving me the lights in the background, and I thought that those guys I spoke to were possibly influential people and were upset. Still, I stopped. Sure enough, the duo came to me with their helmets in place and thanked me for reminding them to ride safe. Such incidents make you feel good about what you’re doing because you can see that it actually works!”
 
 
 Vinay makes it a point to document his campaign on social media by posting photos and videos taken from his helmet-mounted camera. “While travelling, I can meet hundreds of people but with social media, I can reach many more to do the right thing. If I can inspire even one person a day, it makes a huge difference.” 
 
 
