MUMBAI: Students and alumni from across the world have come out in support of protestors from the premier Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). Students from universities in US, UK and even Pakistan have written to the protestors displaying solidarity with the protesting students. Closer home, researchers from TIFR also have extended their support and 800 alumni from TISS also signed a letter supporting their cause. The agitation completed 10 days on Friday.

 The Progressive Students’ Federation from Islamabad-Rawalpindi in a letter, wrote, “In the era of neo-liberalisation of education cutting off the aid to students of marginalized communities is a reductionist measure which excludes them from accessing knowledge. This social seclusion of students coming from oppressed segments will force many to quit education midway”.
 
 Extending their support to the protesting students, researchers from TIFR wrote, “These kinds of actions will pave the way for commodifying and privatising education in addition to making learning inaccessible to a vast majority of students thereby reproducing and legitimizing social stratification”.
 
 Students from Ohio State University too posted a picture on social media depicting their solidarity with TISS students. Multiple Ambedkarite organisations throughout North America have also written a letter to the institute’s acting director with their list of demands. “We are an example of what happens when reservation policies work and the lifting of our families from the violence of caste apartheid has benefitted many in our communities back home,” they wrote in their letter.
 
 In the letter to the acting director, signed by 800 past TISS students, they said, “We are well aware about the challenges posed by the central government to TISS. We are also aware about the initiatives taken by TISS administration all this while. However, we believe the recent decisions have put the onus and burden solely on the students… The Direct Benefit Transfer (DVT) scheme has put the burden solely on students to fetch for the high fees demanded by the TISS. The administration should not forget that these students are those whose family incomes in many cases are lesser than the fee demanded by TISS”.
 
