CHANDIGARH: A Panchkula-based manpower contractor on Friday accused former minister   of taking money for jobs and evading service tax worth Rs 1.39 crore in contractual employment of assistant linemen and assistant sub-station attendant (ASSA) in various circle of the distribution companies (discoms) during the   rule in Haryana from 2005 to 2009.

 Ajay Sandhu made these allegations against Kaithal MLA Surjewala, who is also the head of Congress communication cell. Sandhu, who is facing nearly 40 cases of criminal breach of trust, cheating and fraud in the state, alleged that Surjewala had helped him bag the contracts of manpower provider despite the fact that his company was not qualified for it.
 
 “His close confidant Ishwar Nain of Kisan Congress was coordinating with me and he acted as an equal partner in my company before we bagged the contract. This happened between 2008 and 2009, when Surejwala held the portfolio of power minister in Haryana. My company was not even eligible as per norms of discoms. But minister used his influence and asked the superintending engineers (SEs) to award us the contract,” he alleged.
 
 Sandhu alleged associates linked with Ishwar had started collecting money from the outsourced employees, who had lodged cases against him. “During investigations, police gave clean chit to Nain and his associates and indicted me,” he said.
 
 Referring to tax evasion, Sandhu alleged that initially the company was named as accused and during the investigation, the provident fund commissioner and other officials gave clean chit to them as Nain and others managed to get some papers signed from him. “This too was done under pressure,” he alleged.
 
 Sandhu claimed that he unsuccessfully tried to meet Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on May 15. “I met the CM’s media adviser Rajiv Jain, who assured probe into the entire issue. What we want is a CBI probe into the whole matter. Since these people are influential, I was not able to come out (in the open) earlier. I am already facing several cases and can be arrested any day. But I will certainly expose everyone,” he said.
 
 Neither Surjewala nor his aides were available for comment on the matter. Sources said Surjewala was in Delhi on Friday where he addressed a press conference on the Karnataka government formation row.
 
 
