PUNE: The   government’s decision to transfer money into joint accounts of parents and students for buying uniforms has run into rough weather in rural Maharashtra. 

 Teachers said the Rs 400 per student grant, for two sets of uniforms, is insufficient. Also, many beneficiaries were unable to open bank accounts due to rules on minimum balance.
 
 A teacher, on the condition of anonymity, said the bank seeks Rs 100 to open an account. When Rs 400 was transferred by the headmaster into a student’s account, the bank deducted money from this amount stating a non-compliance with the minimum balance rule, resulting in just Rs 162 for two sets of uniforms.
 
 Vijay Deoskar, former director of  , said: “In rural areas, most parents don’t have bank accounts. Some parents opened savings accounts on which minimum balance rules apply. The best method is to give funds to headmaster for bulk purchases of  . But in this case, there is a huge chance of parents misusing the money.”
 
 Until last year, the government would give money to the school and the headmaster would procure uniforms. The direct benefit transfer scheme started from June, 2017. 
 
 “When the uniforms were bought in bulk, we could procure one set of uniform for Rs 220. But if a parent buys it, Rs 400 is insufficient,” said another teacher. One headmaster said he has Rs 18,000 in his account, which cannot be dispersed. “First, it was about opening joint accounts with nationalized banks. When the government realised nationalized banks were not everywhere, it was decided to open accounts in any bank or post office. But this plan ran into problems too,” the headmaster said.
 
 Only 10-15% of his students opened accounts as many did not have the required documents. Students with bank accounts in order had to show receipts for buying two sets of uniforms and only then could the headmaster pay by cheque. 
 
 “ Only 10% of students benefitted. The government then said cheques could be given to students if receipts were shown. But some students decided not to buy uniforms. Others found that after encashment, banks were deducting money,” said the headmaster.
 
 Education secretary Nand Kumar said, “We will conduct a meeting of bankers to sort out the matter.”
 
 
