CHANDIGARH: Congressman and MC opposition leader   has written to   governor and UT administrator V P   about the financial crunch in the municipal corporation and lack of coordination between the administration and MC.

 
 Babla raised multiple issues related to working of the civic body in the letter and demanded action against those responsible for the situation. He also urged the administrator to resolve issues plaguing the civic body.
 
 In his letter,   said the MC is not a focus area for the UT administration and secretary, local government. He also said the administration is meting out step-motherly treatment towards the MC.
 
 “The current MC is almost 17 months old now since the BJP has come into power with a clear majority, but still, even ward committees have not been formed or approved by the administration. Ward committees are imperative for development of the city as it involves RWAs and eminent public figures for participation on feedback, ideas and thoughts. Even MC sub-committees for road, sanitation and public health etc have not been constituted till date despite four months of the mayor’s tenure passing by. Since a mayor has a limited tenure of just one year, every single day is important and should be taken up for development of the city. Unfortunately, in the past four months, not even a single developmental agenda has been implemented or brought on the table for discussion”, Babla wrote in the letter.
 
 He also said elective representatives find it disheartening and demotivating to face the financial mess in the MC. He underlined the need for quick resolution of the problem for implementation of development projects.
 
 On the parking issue, he said a final decision has not been taken yet. He supported the decision of the MC house to roll back the hike in parking fee and cancel the contract of the firm for violations and said bureaucrats’ were “morally incorrect” in overturning the move.
 
 He said elected representatives are answerable to people and their voice cannot be suppressed.
 
 
