PATNA: Japanese PM Shinzo   underlined the importance of growing ties between India and   as he welcomed   CM   to the island nation when the latter called on him in Tokyo on Monday. 

 Thanking Abe for inviting him to Japan, Nitish highlighted the importance of Nalanda University, Bodh Gaya and Bihar’s Buddhist circuit and sought technical support from Japan in laying of the proposed high-speed rail link which will be connected to the road network of Buddhist circuit to develop a ‘peace corridor’.
 
 “Whenever you visit India next, please take time off to visit Bihar as well,” Nitish said as he spoke about the “huge opportunities” of investment in tourism, agriculture and food processing sectors in Bihar.
 
 The CM said the work on linking Patna through a four-lane road corridor to places like Gaya, Rajgir and Nalanda was in progress with the assistance of the Japan International Cooperation Agency, but it needed to be extended up to Vaishali, another important place related to Lord Buddha. 
 
 Nitish also informed Abe he would discuss the issues related to Patna Metro project and Japanese assistance in Nalanda University with the ministers concerned of Japan.
 
 The CM later called on Japan’s foreign minister Taro Kono and stressed the need for a direct flight between Japan and Bihar for the Japanese tourists visiting the land of Buddha’s enlightenment. 
 
 Maintaining that Bihar youths are meritorious and talented, Nitish requested Kono to set up an Industrial Centre in the state. He also invited Kono to visit Bihar. 
 
 On a four-day visit to Japan, Nitish’s first day on the foreign shores in the Pacific Ocean began with a working lunch hosted by Japan’s state minister of foreign affairs Kazuyuki Nakane.
 
 The CM also had a meeting with International High Speed Railway Association’s chairman Masafumi   at the Indian embassy. He invited Shukuri along with his team of experts to Bihar for a pre-survey of the proposed ‘peace corridor’ that is proposed to link the Buddhist circuit places with rail and road networks. 
 
 Nitish also had a separate meeting with Bihar natives staying in Japan. He informed them about the development initiatives taken by his government and how Bihar has progressed in recent years. 
 
 Earlier, the CM and his delegation of state ministers and officials were accorded a grand reception by Indian ambassador to Japan Sujan R Chinoy.
 
 
