THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/PALAKKAD: In an aspersion that even die-hard trolls would hesitate to make against one of Kerala's iconic leaders,   Young Turk and Thrithala MLA V T Balram called A K Gopalan a 'paedophile'. The remark, initially made in a closed Facebook group, which Balram subsequently defended in an elaborate FB post, stirred a hornet's nest on social media and elsewhere. 

 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Saturday demanded an explanation from   president Rahul Gandhi. "Recently, the Congress expelled Mani Shankar Aiyar for describing PM   as neech aadmi. We would like to hear the stance of   and AK Antony on the verbal assault of the Congress MLA against freedom fighter and Communist leader AKG," Kodiyeri said in a statement. 
 
 Balram, who started off by insinuating about AKG's love affair with Susheela Gopalan when the latter was just a teenager, later tried to substantiate it by quoting from AKG's autobiography. "AKG said in detail in his autobiography how he was attracted to the little girl of the family that offered him shelter. When he was in jail, he had waited for Susheela with a romantic heart. He wedded Susheela even while his first wife was alive," Balram wrote. Though the   president didn't react to Balram's statement, KPCC vice-president V D Satheesan clarified that Congress doesn't share Balram's comments. 
 
 
 
 
 Balram, who started off by insinuating about AKG’s love affair with Susheela Gopalan when the latter was just a teenager, later tried to substantiate it by quoting from AKG’s autobiography. “AKG said in detail in his autobiography how he was attracted to the little girl of the family that offered him shelter. When he was in jail, he had waited for Susheela with a romantic heart. He wedded Susheela even while his first wife was alive”, Balram wrote.
 
 This was immediately countered, with several people quoting from AKG’s autobiography to point out that while he admitted being charmed by the little girl, AKG had decided not to take it further. However, Susheela was hell bent on marrying AKG and she visited him prison to obtain promise of marriage. When the duo got married in 1952 at Alappuzha, Susheela was 22 years and AKG 47.
 
 Though the KPCC president and opposition leader didn’t react to Balram’s statement, KPCC vice president V D Satheesan clarified that Congress doesn’t share Balram’s comments. Former KPCC president K Muraleedharan also distanced himself from Balram’s views. Balram’s AKG remark led to tension in his constituency Thrithala with DYFI activists damaging his office.
 
