NOIDA/GREATER NOIDA: Garbage hasn’t been collected from the streets of Noida and   for around a week now, despite MP and Union minister Mahesh Sharma’s intervention and protest against   in the sectors.

 Even as Noida Authority promised to address the issue at the earliest and start collection of garbage from Tuesday, residents’ anger rose as they complained that unattended garbage has left the city stinking and has been posing a huge health hazard. 
 
 While residents and RWAs of different sectors called for a long-term garbage collection and treatment solution on the outskirts of the city, they joined hands in protest against any dumping ground or treatment plant within the premises of the city.
 
 “The Noida Authority has miserably failed to plan and develop a designated dumping ground and have it approved. They have been simply shifting the focus from one sector to another and fooling the public instead of focussing on ensuring segregated waste and its treatment at a designated site on the outskirts of the city. Today there seems to be no solution to the problem simply because of the approach of Authority officials on the problem,” said N P Singh, president,   ( ).
 
 Ruing the apathy of the Authority to develop a dumping ground along with a waste treatment plant (WTE) even after 40 years since the inception of Noida city, the RWA federation has now called a meeting of all sector RWAs on April 21 to seek suggestions and find a final and plausible solution to the problem to be presented to Authority CEO Alok Tandon.
 
 “Noida residents have currently been experiencing an acute problem of sanitation rising out of ill-planning and indecisiveness of the Authority regarding solid waste management. We have therefore, decided to convene a meeting of all members at FONRWA office in Sector 52 to seek their suggestions and adopt a resolution to put pressure on appropriate authorities,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general, FONRWA.
 
 Sources at Noida Authority said that they are making arrangements for garbage collection.
 
 
