As the single-phase polling in Karnataka came to an end, here is a quick look at how North Karnataka, Old Mysuru area, central and the coastal districts witnessed around 70% turnout on Saturday.

 
 Both Congress and BJP feel the higher turnout will benefit them. Congress sees the higher polling percentage as clear sign of winds of change that would bring the party back to power. But BJP has a different take. It feels the increase in turnout was because more of its supporters turned up. Here is how the various regions voted.
 
 
 
 Barring a few incidents of poll code violations, EVMs malfunctioning and verbal altercations between workers of political parties, polling in Mumbai-Karnataka region was largely peaceful.
 
 The region which elects 50 MLAs and is crucial for BJP to realize it’s goal of returning to power, recorded over 70% voter turnout.
 
 Polling started on a mild note in the region, picked up as the day progressed and peaked during the closing hours. First-time voters were seen taking selfies with the EPIC cards.
 
 JD(S) candidate in Haveri Sanjay Dange was admitted to hospital after he collapsed on Saturday morning.
 
 BJP workers stopped voting at a polling booth at Bharamanahatti village of Yamakanamardi constituency after the EVM was found to be marked with black ink before Congress symbol. In Chigaral village of Shorapur constituency, Yadgir district, four people were injured in a clash between Congress and BJP. Residents of Khanapur village in Yadgir district blocked the Khanapura-Shahapur Road for sometime after a voter was assaulted by police.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Voting in Old Mysuru region was peaceful barring a few incidents in Vokkaliga strongholds of Mandya and Hassan districts. Mysuru district registered over 70% voting, Mandya 77%, Chamarajanagar 78%, Hassan 78%, Chikkamagaluru 75%, Shivamogga 74% and Kodagu 73%.
 
 Chamundeshwari segment, from where CM Siddaramaiah is contesting, polled over 70% votes. Siddaramaiah exercised his franchise at Siddaramanahundi, 20km from Mysuru and said he was confident of victory in Chamundeshwari. His son Yathindra, who is contesting from Varuna, too cast his ballot at Siddaramanahundi.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The Coastal Karnataka region comprising Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts recorded a voter turnout of 73%. While Dakshina Kannada witnessed 72% polling, Udupi saw 75% and Uttara Kannada 70% .
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The fate of BJP’s CM candidate B S Yeddyurappa, Ballari MP B Sreeramulu, KPCC president G Parameshwara, senior Congress leaders Kagodu Thimmappa, Shamanuru Shivashankarappa, K R Rameshkumar and social welfare minister H Anjaneya were sealed on Saturday, with about 70% voters in Central Karnataka casting their votes.
 
 Polling in the region was by and large peaceful barring stray incidents of verbal clashes, delay in polling due to malfunctioning EVMs and reports of poll code violations.
 
 In Sidlaghatta of Chikkaballapur district, sitting MLA M Rajanna, who is contesting as an independent, was admitted to hospital after he complained of chest pain. Around 350 voters of Gunturvadlapalli in Bagepalli constituency staged a protest in front of the polling station at M Nallagutlapalli demanding a polling station in their village.
 
