NEW DELHI: Not just extreme heat, air pollution levels are also peaking in many parts of the city. Even   (O3) levels are beginning to cross the safe standard — PM2.5 concentrations are already nearly twice the safe limit at most locations. 

 While the winter smog is visible to the naked eye, high O3 levels may be an indicator that concentrations of invisible gaseous   like oxides of nitrogen (NOx) may be very high at many locations.
 
  
  
 
 TOI tracked eight-hour averages of O3 at various locations monitored by both the   and the  . CPCB data, for example, indicated that average O3 levels peaked to more than 100 micrograms per cubic metres during the day at   on several days between May 15 and May 23. For example, on May 15, the average between 8 am and 4 pm was 105 µg/m³, 118 µg/m³ on May 20, 111 µg/m³ on May 21 and 119 µg/m³ on May 22. 
 
 DPCC’s line graph shows that at RK Puram, O3 peaks have been as high as 160 µg/m³ and 130 µg/m³; at Wazirpur—an industrial area — O3 levels peaked to 124 µg/m³ on May 16 and 106 µg/m³ on May 22. At Najafgarh, O3 crossed 200 µg/m³ on May 17 and May 22. The 24-hour PM2.5 averages also hovered between 100 and 150 µg/m³ at most locations, including RK Puram, Punjabi Bagh and Anand Vihar, as opposed to the safe standard of 60 µg/m³. 
 
 Ground-level ozone (O3) that’s currently wreaking havoc in certain parts of Delhi is created due to chemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOX), volatile organic compounds (VOC) and carbon monoxide (CO) in the presence of sunlight and heat.
 
 “This only shows that the level of gaseous emissions is high in the city. NOx acts as a catalyst in summer to create ozone. In fact, NOx emissions dissipate and cause ozone pollution even in areas that are not close to pollution sources, such as low traffic areas,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. She added that “ozone is a highly reactive gas, which can aggravate health complications even at considerably lower levels. Those with respiratory conditions and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder are particularly vulnerable. Across the world, both PM2.5 and O3 are key pollutants for smog alerts. Our research shows O3 levels are rising and even shifting to peripheral areas of the city over the years.”
 
 According to the America Lung Association, exposure to O3 can trigger immediate health impacts like shortness of breath, wheezing and coughing, asthma attacks, increased risk of respiratory infections, pulmonary inflammation, among others. Long-term impact include harm to the central nervous system, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and reproductive and developmental harm.
 
 A DPCC scientist told TOI, “We usually see a peak in both PM and Ozone levels during this part of the year. It's a combined effect of local emissions, high temperatures and an after-effect of crop and forest fires in the neighbouring states. Those with respiratory discomfort should take care.” Locally, combustion sources like vehicles and industries may be contributing to high O3.
 
 
