BENGALURU: Highly cash-dependent traders in gems and diamonds have cost banks at least Rs 5,000 crore through 90 defaults, bank-wise and company-wise data on wilful defaulters compiled by the Federation of Bank of India Staff Unions (FBISU) shows.

 
 The top loser is  , with just nine defaulters but a loss of Rs 1,790 crore — four times the amount SBI lost.
 
 SBI reported the most number of wilful defaults (15) and lost Rs 410 crore. PNB, incidentally, has lost the most among banks.
 
 According to FBISU data, the total number of wilful defaulters is a little over 5,000, costing banks about Rs 49,000 crore, but the latest RBI data shows the numbers have jumped to 8,915 and Rs 92,376 crore, respectively. Of these wilful defaulters at the end of March 2017, PNB had the most (1,120), followed by SBI (997).
 
  
  
 
 At least two bankers TOI spoke to said the exposure to gems and jewel companies must have also increased multifold. “Given that this data doesn’t include the recent  , the final number could point to one of the worst frauds the sector has seen,” one of them said.
 
 Small and big loans have remained unpaid, while companies like Winsome, Beautiful Diamonds and Auro Gold Jewellery have defaulted with multiple banks. In some cases, banks are in the process of recovery, while in others investigations are pending.
 
 Among the various means used to exploit banks is changing the names of companies and borrowing.
 
 Data shows that Beautiful Diamonds was earlier called Splendour Gems, while Auro Gold Jewellery Private Limited later dropped the word “Private” from its name. Another firm, Ghanshyandas Gems and Jewels, later became “Ghanshyamdas”.
 
 “The diamond trade is highly cash-dependent and the source of major money laundering. It may be conceivable that diamond merchants resorted to higher borrowing through Nostro accounts overseas to deal with the setbacks caused by constriction of the cash economy,” Tobby Simon of Synergia Foundation, a multidisciplinary think tank, said.
 
 Experts, while pointing out how the total recapitalisation amount PNB received was about Rs 5,473 crore, pushing the bank’s net worth to Rs 20,000 crore, said that assuming the best scenario of recovery (of the Rs 11,300 crore) is 50%, the fraud has wiped out the entire money taxpayers had coughed up to recapitalise the bank.
 
 Among other banks that suffered are Union Bank of India with nine defaults and Oriental Bank of Commerce with eight defaults.
 
 Professor Charan Singh, former RBI chair professor at IIM-B, while calling for a complete overhaul of the banking system, cautioned against politicising the issue. “There’s a need to consider the sentiments of the public. Overreaction in the public domain can only deter depositors from banking, and bankers from lending.”
 
 
 
