Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday set aside the death penalty awarded to a couple - P Sankaranarayanan and Chellammal - who had murdered a scheduled caste woman in 2016. A division bench of justices S Vimala and T Krishnavalli which heard the case, acquitted Chellammal, but commuted her husband’s death sentence to life sentence. Besides, the court ruled out the allegation that the murder was a honour killing. 

 At the same time, the court said the compensation ordered by the trial court to the victims – the husband and a three-year old boy, did not invite its interference and accordingly, it confirmed the amount. The 2nd additional sessions court (PCR) in Tirunelveli, which delivered the sentences to the couple on January 9, last year had also awarded Rs 8.25 lakh to the victims and Rs 11,600 per month to the boy till his graduation or he attains 21 years of age, whichever is earlier. 
 
 According to the prosecution, aggrieved over their daughter Kaveri having eloped with one Viswanathan of the SC community, the couple on May 13, 2016 came to the house of the deceased (Kalpana) who was the sister of the youth and demanded to hand over their daughter to them. As their efforts went futile, the man killed Kalpana at the instigation of his wife. 
 
 Palayamkottai police registered the case under various Sections of IPC and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and arrested the couple. The trial court found the couple guilty and awarded death sentence. It then referred the case to the high court bench to confirm the sentence. Meanwhile, the convicted also preferred an appeal. 
 
 After hearing concerned sides, the division bench said the the prosecution had established its case beyond reasonable doubt that it was Sankaranarayanan (accused one) who attacked the deceased indiscriminately resulting in the death of the deceased. Therefore, this court confirms the conviction imposed upon him. 
 
 “However, a careful scrutiny of the evidence let in by the prosecution reveals that no evidence worth mentioning has been adduced by the prosecution to show that with an intention to commit murder A-1 (Sankaranarayanan) had come to the house of the deceased carrying the sickle,” the bench said and commuted the death sentence.
 
 
