CHANDIGARH: The State  , UT, Chandigarh, has asked Panjab   to take disciplinary action against two employees of the varsity who were deputed at the Maloya polling booth for negligence in service during the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections held on December 18, 2016.

 Due to some serious lapses, a re-poll had to be conducted in Maloya. The commission has suggested that the University should impose penalty on the officials as per the conduct rules instead of giving them a simple advice. The matter will be tabled in the syndicate meeting on May 26.
 
 In a communication sent to the university registrar, the commission has requested to re-consider the inquiry report and impose penalty on the officials. If the university fails to address the matter, the commission would refer the matter to the chancellor of the university.
 
 According to the report, there were total 986 votes in the working copy of the electoral roll out, of which the names of 395 voters stood deleted marked in red ink. Only 685 voters were left who could cast their vote, however, the polling parties allowed 703 voters to cast their votes against 685. After this was brought to notice by the returning officer, the polling booth was declared void. Two polling officers deputed were employees of the university.
 
 Moreover, a report of the chief vigilance officer of   regarding the re-visit of the inspection committee for granting affiliation to certain courses and subjects to RSD college, Ferozepur, will be tabled in the syndicate meeting on May 26.
 
 According to the information available in the agenda, Prof V K Chopra, English department of Panjab University, went for the re-visit as a part of the inspection committee when his name was not in the list of people who had to go for inspection to the college again. Chopra had signed against the space meant for the signatures of DPI colleges or his nominee. The verification of his nomination was done following the incident. The matter will now be tabled in the syndicate meeting.
 
 The syndicate will also consider and review the rules for migration for undergraduate and postgraduate courses of the university.
 
 
