CHENNAI/BENGALURU:: With the storage level dwindling in   reservoir, the lifeline of Cauvery delta, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K   on Saturday requested his Karnataka counterpart   to consider release of seven tmcft of water immediately. 

 But citing shortage of water in Karnataka reservoirs, Siddaramaiah said his government could not release water. "How can we release water when storage levels in our reservoirs in the Cauvery river basin are low? There is no question of releasing water now," Siddaramaiah told reporters in New Delhi. He also referred to the impending Supreme Court verdict on the Cauvery water sharing row and stated that the state government would prefer to wait for a month.
 
 Earlier in the day, in a letter to Siddaramaiah, a copy of which was released to the media, Palaniswami said the storage in Mettur reservoir as on Friday was a meagre 21.27tmcft (utilizable storage is only 16.27tmcft). "This is grossly inadequate to meet the irrigation needs of the standing crops and drinking water needs during the summer months," he said. The final order of the   mandated release of 192tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu in a year. The state has realized only 111.647tmcft until January, as against the required 179.8tmcft, leaving a deficit of 68.22tmcft.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The crop season in Karnataka is already over and there is gross storage of about 49.82tmcft in the four major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin in Karnataka as on Friday. Palaniswami said that Karnataka could release at least 15tmcft of water to Tamil Nadu to make up partly for the shortfall.
 
 In the current irrigation year, Mettur reservoir could be opened for irrigation only on October 2, as against the customary date of June 12 because of poor storage. Though samba cultivation commenced soon after and the northeast monsoon was helpful in the beginning, rains became destructive by the end of October. "The young crop could not withstand the onslaught of such rainfall and got damaged to a considerable extent," the CM said.
 
 "The farmers had to replant the crop, as a result of which the crop period got extended. These standing crops need irrigation in the critical stage of crop growth maturity, namely, milky and dough stage, for which irrigation has to be extended beyond January," Palaniswmi said. The farmers of Cauvery delta lost their crop last year due to deficit inflow into Mettur reservoir.
 
 
