AHMEDABAD:   between Mumbai and Delhi via Ahmedabad — which is currently 16 hours — will soon be reduced to just 12 hours. It was announced in the   that the   on the   would be enhanced from 160kmph to 200kmph. This will reduce travel time along the approximately 1,450km route to 12 hours. As of now, travel time to Delhi even via Ratlam and Kota is nearly 16 hours.

 Officials said that travel time on the Shatabdi between Mumbai and Ahmedabad would be reduced by nearly two hours from the current 6 hours 40 minutes. Further, travel time between Delhi and Ahmedabad will also shrink to around eight hours. Rajdhani takes 14 hours to reach Delhi as of now. The pink book comprising the nitty-gritty of railway projects and estimates was tabled in the Parliament. It states that the government has allocated Rs 11,188 crore for enhancing the speed of trains on the Mumbai-Delhi Railway route. The Ahmedabad-Mumbai route has double tracks; the work on the doubling the track between Ahmedabad and Delhi is in progress.
 
  
  
 It is worth recalling that the railways had earlier approved the electrification of the Ahmedabad-Delhi track. Railway officials said that in the Union budget tabled on February 1, the government has also approved doubling of track between Mehsana and Palanpur. Work on this section along the Delhi-Ahmedabad track was pending approval. The two track-doubling projects between Mehsana and Palapur and Rajkot and Kanalus will be taken up at the cost of Rs 1,540 crore.
 
 The budget has recommended 12 road overbridges and eight road underbridges. The budget has approved a survey for a new line on the Nadiad-Udepur route via Modasa . As for electrification projects, the railways has approved the electrification of the route between Udaipur city and Himmatnagar. 
 
 The railways has also approved the electrification project on the Rajkot-Jetalsar-Veraval-Somnath route. The officials said 14 projects of electrification would be undertaken across the state. The railways has sanctioned a 2,145km electrification project at the cost of Rs 1,902.27 crore.
 
 
