PATNA: In less than two years since prohibition was implemented in the state, the   government has created a record of sorts by arresting more than 1.15 lakh people for violating the   ban.

 The  , which probed into excesses during Emergency, puts the number of people arrested between 25 June 1975 and 21 March 1977 at 1.1 lakh.
 
 According to the Nitish Kumar government, 5.6 lakh liquor-related raids have been conducted and 88,000 FIRs have been registered for illegal consumption and liquor smuggling since prohibition was introduced on April 5, 2016. A staggering 23 lakh litres of   and country-made liquor has so far been seized.
 
 Of 57 prisons in the state, including eight central jails, 27 are overcrowded with more than 25,000 inmates against their sanctioned capacity to accommodate 16,880 prisoners. Government claims crime figures have come down in the state after prohibition.
 
 However, only 30 people have so far been convicted while other cases are pending in the court. Sources said more than 90% people jailed in liquor cases belong to Dalit, mahadalit families or poor families.
 
 While principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani said the state government would soon hire more public prosecutors for pending cases in courts, former Bihar chief secretary V S Dubey believes prohibition has produced a new generation of criminals in the state. “Stopping liquor smuggling is next to impossible for any government and prohibition cannot be termed successful with a parallel economy of bootlegging,” Dubey told TOI.
 
 According to police, there’s huge money involved in liquor smuggling and criminals have roped in youths as carriers. Liquor is being sold for Rs1100 to Rs1500 per bottle. But experts are not enthused. “Looking at the figures related to seizure of liquor after prohibition, it seems the state government is far from achieving the target of total prohibition. In fact, illegal liquor industry seems to be expanding and attracting many unemployed youths as well,” social scientist D M Diwakar said.
 
 The Patna high court has pulled up the state government on several occasions for implementing the prohibition law in a mechanical manner. The HC had, in fact, quashed the state government ban on alcohol in the state, saying it was ultra vires. Later, the   stayed the HC order. On January 24, HC served show-cause notice to chief secretary on action being taken under prohibition law, which was not only creating difficulties for the people, but also multiplying court cases. The HC was hearing a case in which a bus was seized because one of the passengers was carrying liquor.
 
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his party term prohibition as an “utter failure”. Lalu’s son and leader of opposition in assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has said prohibition norms would be revised if RJD comes to power.
 
 
