KOCHI: As more number of cases are reported under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act due to improved awareness in  , the number of children, who are survivors of rape, is also alarmingly high, revealed statistics released by the national crime records bureau (NCRB). According to  , the number of children, who are rape survivors, totalled to 785 in 2016 On Saturday, Union cabinet cleared an ordinance that ensures lengthy prison terms and even the death penalty for sex offenders convicted for raping girls aged below 12. According to statistics available here, as many as 21% of the rape survivors were in the 0-12 age-group. In 2016, 42 kids aged below six were raped in Kerala. Meanwhile, the number of survivors aged above six and below 12 was 146.

 Sociologist Neshat Quaiser said that both children and the elderly were very vulnerable. “It should be seen in the backdrop of a larger social deprivation of these perpetrators. They need to exhibit their dominance somewhere. Hence, children become an easy target to exercise this dominance and validate themselves,” he said.
  
  
 He added that a feeling of security for offenders – that they can do anything and still get away with it – also pushed them to commit such offences. “Some sections of the society have an assurance that they can get away with any crime because of their political or economic influence. This gives them courage to commit crimes,” Quaiser said.
 
 However, the sociologist added that death penalty was not required as a deterrent. “Did rate of crimes having severe punishments come down? These one-off outcries aside, rape – in general – is still not stirring the conscience of our society and this needs to change,” said the sociologist.
 
 As per statistics, the number minor survivors aged between 12 and 18 is also high in the state. As many as 276 children, who were raped in 2016, were in this agegroup, which is over 31% of total children raped. The number of teenagers raped (aged between 16 and 18) were 412. This is 25% of the entire number of rapes reported in Kerala.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr CJ John said that from the perspective of a culprit, age may not make much of a difference. “I don’t understand why kids aged above 12 are not in the ambit of the new ordinance. What needs to be considered is that the character formation of the child is happening at this age and the offender is causing severe harm to the child’s character,” he said, adding that the provisions of Pocso Act are not followed thoroughly. “Even if punishment is only imprisonment, there should a speedy trial. Conviction should happen before people forget the case. Only that will create deterrence,” said John.
 
 Psychologist KS David says that there are some misconceptions that lead offenders towards children. “Those who are sexually weak tend to prove themselves by sexually assaulting children. Also, people who are addicts and not in their right sense of mind can commit atrocities on children. Though many claim insanity as an excuse in most cases, they are committing the crime knowing the exact nature of the offence,” he said.
 
 
 
