Mangaluru: Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) set up to implement the Smart City project, has finalized a proposal to develop the first   of the smart city. Nehru Maidan Road in the city, that connects the business hub of Hampanakatta with Nehru Maidan, City Police Commissionerate, DC’s office and bus stand, will be developed into the first smart road in the smart city, by providing all necessary infrastructure and beautification. After inviting expression of interests, the MSCL has decided to float tenders to develop the smart road in February. 

 The proposal of comprehensive development of Nehru Maidan smart road includes streetscape designing, beautification, landscaping, intersection redesigning and infrastructure upgrading under Smart City Mission on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. Widening of the road, providing stainless steel bus shelter with LED displays, installation of outdoor wi-fi, e-toilets with LED, GPS connectivity, providing traffic signal poles, laying tiles, interlocks, dust bins, 180-watt LED street lights, grass lawns, planting shrubs and fixing irrigation lines and sprinklers for lawn areas. The existing structure at the A B Shetty Circle will be preserved while developing the model smart road. 
 
 Mangaluru City Corporation commissioner Mohammed Nazeer told TOI that the work will be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 7.5 crore. “We have already invited expression of interest, and tenders to implement the project will be floated by February,” he said. 
 
 The MSCL has already cleared another proposal to provide 22 smart bus stop shelters at various places in the city. Part of the pan city development initiative under the smart cities project, these shelters have been categorized as A, B and C. While bus shelter A will have e-toilets including interactive display and real-time indicator, bus shelter B will have the same features as shelter A, minus e-toilet, and bus shelter C will be a smaller-sized version of bus shelter B type, he added. 
 
 
