LUDHIANA: Almost one month after the MC polls, the newly elected councillors of 95 wards will finally be taking oath on March 26 at A Zone office, and the city will get a new mayor as well. As soon as the date is fixed — where councillors are excited about their oath-taking ceremony — the candidates in waiting for the mayoral post have become anxious. Though candidates in the mayoral race are not showing their anxiety, they are constantly in touch with MLAs and other senior leaders for their selection.

 The MC has already prepared their plan to conduct this ceremony, and due to paucity of adequate space in the meeting hall, they have decided not to allow anybody inside except the councillors, MLAs, and some officials who have been assigned the duties. Patiala divisional commissioner VK Meena will conduct the oath-taking ceremony, and the election of mayor, senior deputy mayor, and deputy mayor will also take place simultaneously. MC commissioner   said they were ready for the ceremony, and officials have been told to make arrangements accordingly.
 
 For the mayor’s election, all Congress councillors had handed over their rights to CM Captain  , who will send the name on Monday. The front-runners for this prime post are Balkar Singh,  , and Pal  , while names of other senior leaders, including Shyam Sunder Malhotra and Jaiparkash are also under consideration.
 
 “It is the decision of the party high command, and I will accept it whole-heartedly. My only preference is the public, and I will continue serving if I do not get the chance,” said Balkar Singh, a senior Congress councillor, and among the front-runners for the mayoral post.
 
 Echoing the same, Congress district president and councillor Gurpreet Gogi said he was asked to send a letter duly signed by all Congress councillors that the CM had all the rights to elect the mayor, and that he had done the very next day from the election results. He said everybody would go by the decision of the party high command.
 
 Meanwhile, councillors are also getting ready for the swearing-in ceremony. BJP councillor   said: “I am excited to take oath and start my work as a councillor. Though I am already visiting social and religious functions in the ward, officially I will become a councillor only when I will take my oath.” 
 
 Notably, the first mayor of Ludhiana was elected in 1992, when   was elected on this post, followed by which Opinder Singh Grewal, Nahar Singh Gill, Hakam Singh Giaspura, and Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria remained mayor. On Monday, the city will get its sixth mayor. 
 
 
