NEW DELHI: Delhi’s   has told   to   excess fee to   with a  , in compliance with the reports of the high court-appointed Justice Anil Dev Committee. The circular also directed schools to pay their teachers in accordance with the 6th Pay commission, defiance of which will call for action, or even de-recognition of the school.

 The order was passed on May 16 and had given schools seven days to comply and 10 days to file a compliance report with their respective regional deputy director of education. “Schools cannot move further on the issue until there is a court judgment,” he said.
 
 However, schools are in no mood to entertain such directions. According to S K Bhattacharya, president of Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools, there is no point of sending these directions with the matter still in court. “We will wait for the HC direction. There are several anomalies in the report,” he said.
 
 According to the circular issued by the deputy director of education (private school branch), the HC-appointed committee had submitted 10 interim reports and monthly interim reports from June 2016 to January 2018 for 1,169 unaided recognised private schools. The committee was formed by an order of the Delhi high court in response to several petitions filed by parent associations against schools over “unreasonable” fee hikes held “without any proper procedure which was required to be followed as per mandated of law”. The committee then carried out audits of the accounts of private unaided schools to ascertain of the fee hikes were necessary to sustenance, and filed reports and orders in each case.
 
 The DoE, in its circular, said 575 schools were yet to comply with the 10 interim reports of the committee and refund excess fees with a 9% interest. Attached with the circular was the list of these schools, which included popular names such as Modern School (Barakhamba Road and Vasant Vihar), Delhi Public School (Mathura Road, RK Puram, Rohini), Sanskriti School and Sardar Patel Vidyalaya, among others.
 
 Bhattacharya criticised the government for taking so long to audit school accounts. “It has taken them three years to audit accounts. If there is a need for fee hike, how can one expect parents to pay arrears for three years in one go?” he said.
 
 
