 is a book about book lovers!   spins a tale around antique books, manuscripts and those who collect them. One gets to learn a lot about this world of bibliophiles explored from the point of view of an expert book collector and her disciple.

 The story follows two women, Neela and Kayal, running a rare book shop as they try to find out whether a man claiming to have rare manuscripts is telling the truth, and if so, how he procured them. We join Neela and Kayal as they go about their regular life, interacting with people from the book world, from lowly binders to passionate collectors. The characters seem similar, as they’re all bibliophiles. The book is peppered with interesting facts on certain books and editions and focuses on one writer in particular: Sir Richard Francis Burton. Those who haven’t previously heard of him are in for a treat, for the book talks about his interesting life and work as well.
 
 The story wonderfully explains the psyche of a book collector. It describes the varying forms of joy of discovering, feeling and owning a rare book. It begins with projecting the rewarding side of book collecting but as the tale goes on, one discovers how this could border on mania and reveals the dark side of the collectors -- their ego and desire for recognition. 
 
 
  is full of details that will fascinate book lovers and collectors in general, but anyone looking for a solid story might find it dull. There's a whole chapter that teaches us a lot about printing presses which, though interesting, adds nothing to the story. The book also displays a deep love for Chennai, where it is set. It is a refreshing change from novels set in Delhi or Mumbai. While it is a must read for a bibliophile, the avid mystery reader won’t find it too stimulating.
 
 
 
 
 
  from 
  found that, "Book Hunters resurrects a bygone era not just in its form but also in its content. "
 
  
  from 
 
 , "The book’s triumph is largely due to the anecdotes scattered within it in abundance, with scarcely a few pages passing by without some interesting nugget of information cropping up."
 
