CHANDIGARH:After a week in the benign care of international golfer   Singh’s family, the very rare Mottled Wood owl was rehabilitated in an appropriate habitat just before dusk on Thursday under the guidance of leading experts.

 
 
 The owl, which was rescued by Sujjan from the   after it was found sitting frozen on the ground, was examined by a high-level delegation led by Vibhu Prakash, deputy director, BNHS and programme head of the vulture conservation breeding project at Bir Shikar Gah, Pinjore. He was accompanied by  , Globally Threatened Species Officer for the UK-based, oldest avian NGO of the world, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB). The owl was also visited by retired   justice HS Bedi, who is an old hawking enthusiast, and Sujjan’s maternal uncle.
 
 “The owl is preening, perching on one leg occasionally and shows external signs of health and alertness. It is able to glide and is fit for rehabilitation in the wilderness in an appropriate habitat,” Prakash told TOI. The owl was on Wednesday examined by a team of veterinarians and wildlife officials from Chhatbir zoo.
 
 The owl took a natural fancy during its homestay to Sujjan’s mother, Kanwal Sukhinder Singh. He would gobble boneless chicken morsels from her hand, cling to her like a baby and whisper sweet endearments and soft calls in her presence. Sujjan’s family was fortunate enough to be guided in the day-to-day care and health upkeep of the owl by Rushil Shergill, a passionate falconer and conservationist, who is well versed in the nursing and rehabilitation of stricken birds of prey. The owl had in recent days started to increase the variation and strength of vocalisations, especially in mornings and late evenings.
 
 Dr. Prakash cleared the habitat for the rescued owl’s release and said that more owls of this species could be existing undiscovered in the tricity region. Dr. Prakash has undertaken field studies of this owl species, including nesting ecology, at Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, in the early 1980s before the Mottled Wood owl was eliminated from that iconic wetland by larger owls.
 
 The Mottled Wood owl harbours a voracious appetite for rodents in the wilderness, though the ingestion of rodents killed by pesticides endangers such birds of prey, just as diclofenac-laced dead cattle led to mass mortality of vultures. Though widely distributed through central and peninsular India, this owl species is very rare in North India and the closest records to Chandigarh are from Bharatpur (Rajasthan) and Dudhwa National Park.
 
