GURUGRAM: Concentration of   in the air reduced by 49% over the past 24 hours, thanks to a sudden rise in wind speed due to a western disturbance. As a result, Monday turned out to be the least polluted day in the past six days. 

 The concentration of   came down to 86 micrograms per cubic metre on Monday from 134 on Sunday. The air quality index (AQI), on the other hand, was reported at 146, which falls in the ‘moderate’ category. 
 
 It marked a significant improvement from the last week when the PM2.5 level shot up to 149.97 micrograms per cubic metre, making Gurgaon more polluted than Delhi and Noida. The AQI had remained in the ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ category since last Tuesday.
  
  
 Officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said an increase in wind speed led to a sudden dip in the concentration of particulate matter on Monday. “At least five-six days after the wind speed started increasing, the air pollution has suddenly come down. On Monday afternoon, it was below 60 micrograms per cubic metre – which is the permissible limit for the concentration of PM2.5. It reduced so much because the wind speed went up from 8 km/hr to 12 km/hr in the day. Also, formation of clouds led to an increase in the moisture level in the air, which on Monday helped disperse particulate matter,” said an official of HSPCB. 
  
 According to the Met department, the concentration of particulate matter can go down further. “Due to rain around NCR and in some parts of NCR and the increase in wind speed, the concentration of particulate matter went down. We are expecting cloudy sky on Wednesday and Thursday also, so pollution levels can go down further. However, the average maximum temperature is likely to go up by one or two notches,” said an official.
 
 The maximum temperature on Monday was 20 degree Celsius and the minimum temperature was 13 degree Celsius. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature is expected to go up to 21 degree Celcius while the minimum will be at 12.
 
 
