Though the entire nation is trying to distance itself from bats — the carriers for   — the animals have found a safe abode in at least three pockets of the state. This despite the fact that the state had been hit by the outbreak of the disease twice, in 2001and 2007.

 
 At  , barely 26km from the city, close to 5,000 bats live in six tamarind and mango trees and the villagers are keeping a strict vigil to ensure the animals remain protected. “These animals have been living here for several years. In fact, this neighbourhood is known as Badurpara because of the bats. Since there has been a scare that these animals are responsible for the spreading of the disease, we are taking precautions to ensure no one eats the fruits from these trees. We are also ensuring the fruits are not being consumed by any animals which can carry and spread the disease,” said  , 78, a retired professor of leather technology who lives a few blocks from the cluster of trees.
 
  
  
 
 At Badurtola in Madhyamgram, where a large banyan tree is home to around 2,500 bats, locals have cordoned off the tree and are guarding the area in turns to ensure no one picks the fruits or bothers the bats. “The place is going through conservation and the   is making a biodiversity park keeping the banyan tree in the centre,” said Rathin Ghose, chairman of   municipality.
 
 “The bats leave the tree just after sunset and come back at dawn. They stay here throughout the day. We never think of living without these creatures. This area is rich in seasonal fruits and we are taking precautions to prevent any outbreak here. In previous years, children would pick up mangoes or lichhi strewn under the trees left by bats or birds, but nowadays they are forbidden to do so,” he said.
 
 In Jalpaiguri’s Adarpara, there is a 20 cottah plot of eucalyptus vegetation that is a safe home for countless bats. The same ground is open pasturage for pigs, which largely feed on bat droppings.
 
 “With the outbreak of the disease, we are protecting the bats. But we are also driving away the pigs whenever they come here to eat the droppings,” said  , a local resident.
 
