NEW DELHI: A combination of technology and hard work enabled   to keep the city’s traffic from running amok on Wednesday when a host of state of heads began arriving in the city from Southeast Asian nations. With VIP movement from IGI Airport to central Delhi almost every hour from 11am, the police had their task cut out.

 TOI visited the special command and   — set up traffic chief Dependra Pathak at Todapur in central Delhi — where 15 men monitored the traffic situation in real time and diverted traffic from congested roads with the help of cops on the ground and the recently erected message boards.
 
 Delhi Police also roped in Google to mark the no-entry zones in red so that people using GPS avoided the restricted routes. From the control room, the team informed two Whatsapp groups monitored by joint commissioners Arun Kampani and Garima Bhatnagar about bottlenecks and traffic inspectors were rushed to such sites to ease the traffic flow. 
 
 The manner in which police managed the roads was exemplified in the worsening situation around 3.30pm at Dhaula Kuan due to one of the Asean heads driving towards a luxury hotel on Sardar Patel Marg. The cops advised the on-ground traffic inspectors on an available diversion through Vande Mataram Marg and Ridge Road. Police officers later said it took less than 15 minutes to transform a near standstill stretch into a slow moving one. 
 
 “The idea was to have a common, command and control post so that there was no confusion among the officers on ground about the diversion routes. We wanted to cause the least harassment to the public without compromising on security,” explained Pathak.
 
 Kampani added that the traffic status was streamed real-time through Twitter, Whatsapp and Facebook so the commuters could plan their drives in advance. The control room had begun updating the messaging boards by 10am advising commuters heading to the airport and Gurgaon to avoid using Sardar Patel Marg and suggesting alternative routes. The effects of the traffic diversions were monitored and analysed on three large screens at the control room.
 
 A relieved Pathak said in the evening, “Credit also goes to Delhi’s people, who were very cooperative throughout the day. Due to effective use of technology and human intervention, we were able to control traffic movement.” 
 
 
