This is one ‘Char Dham Yatra’ that the 50-odd pilgrims and people’s representatives from the state will remember for long.

 
 After 30 agonising hours, when they were   at different locations in Uttarakhand in pouring rain and incessant snowfall, the groups managed to make it to safer zones by Wednesday evening. 
 
 A 39-member group, comprising people’s representatives from   district, was stranded at  , while 66 pilgrims, including six from   city, were among 104 who were stuck at Badrinath since Monday night due to rains and snowfall that affected or closed most of the road routes from the holy towns.
 
 The group from Srikakulam, after frantic calls to their near and dear ones, managed to come down from the high altitude areas and reach safer spots after the routes were cleared and opened for transport as the snowfall receded.
 
 Heavy snowfall of more than five inches was reported at Kedarnath which disrupted even helicopter services besides the movement of pilgrims. At Badrinath, another popular pilgrim centre, many pilgrims were stranded as their vehicles got struck in the snow.
 
 Fearing landslides near Lambagar, the Chameli district police — where the Badrinath hill shrine is located — suspended vehicular movement on the roads from Monday night till Wednesday morning as a precautionary measure, district superintendent of police   told her Srikakulam district counterpart C M Trivikram Varma when he enquired about the well being of pilgrims of his district.
 
 The chief minister’s office has been continuously keeping track on the whereabouts of the stranded pilgrims and also about the group of people’s representatives — which include ZPTCs and MPPs led by Srikakulam zilla parishad chairperson Chowdary Dhanalakshmi — through AP Bhavan officials in New Delhi. The people’s representatives’ team had gone on a study tour to Uttarakhand on May 3. But the sudden snowfall disrupted their study tour, sources said.
 
 Elsewhere, around 104 pilgrims, including six from Vizag city, were in Uttarakhand as part of their  . The pilgrims from Vizag are Seshanapuri Kameswara Rao (55) and his wife Bharathi (45) of BC Colony, Vepagunta, Vaddi Kasi Viswanatham (65) and his wife Vijayalakshmi (56), Kalivarapu Mutyala Rao and his wife. They had left for the yatra on April 26.
 
 Srikakulam SP Trivikram Varma said he has received information that the ZP chairperson and other people’s representatives have already reached Rudraprayag from Kedarnath. 
 
 “We reached Kedarnath on Monday morning. The snowfall started in the evening and went on till Tuesday night. I suffered from breathing problems due to the heavy snowfall. A doctor gave me some medicines and advised us to go to a safer place as early as possible,” ZP chairperson Dhanalakshmi told TOI.
 
 Santosh Kumar, who works in the ZP chairperson’s office, said they tried for chopper service to ferry Dhanalakshmi, but the services were suspended. “We lost hope as there were no dolis or other services available for almost 30 hours,” he told TOI.
 
