GAYA: Bodh   observed a near total bandh on Friday, the first day of the three-day long general strike to protest a recent order of the district administration banning entry of four wheelers in a radius of around 1km from   temple, the seat of Buddha’s enlightenment.

 Almost all business establishments, including eateries, kept their shutters down. Even vendors selling mineral water and other beverages did not open their outlets in the temple city. Most of the e- rickshaws too stayed off the roads.
 
 While imposing the new   system on February 20, Gaya district administration and police had claimed that it was done for security as well as environmental reasons. Limited number of e-rickshaws has been given permission to move in the restricted zone under the new traffic plan.
 
 Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said all efforts were being made to take care of the requirements of the visiting pilgrims and tourists. “Special arrangements have been made to facilitate movement of tourists in the restricted zone. Moreover, movement of tourist vehicles between Gaya airport and hotels and monasteries have not been affected by the bandh. Water outlets have also been established to dispense safe and clean drinking water to the visitors,” Singh said.
 
 Assuring full protection to businessmen willing to do business during bandh, the DM said nobody would be allowed to take law into their own hands. “The bandh will prove to be counterproductive,” said Singh.
 
 Acting tough on the bandh supporters, the police registered criminal cases against nearly 24 named and about 150 unidentified persons, who on Thursday evening moved with fireballs in the prohibited areas.
 
 The DM said major concessions have been given to the locals and businessmen without compromising with the security requirements of the shrine. Listing the concessions, the DM said besides allowing entry of two wheelers, loading and unloading facility has been granted to businessmen between 9pm and 5am.
 
 “Alternate routes have been earmarked to facilitate unhindered movement of the people and special permits will be issued to people living or doing business in the restricted zone,” Abhishek said.
 
  said the bandh was “uncalled for” as almost all the issues raised by the locals have been addressed. The MLA requested the bandh organisers to review their call in the larger interest of the holy city.
 
 
