GREATER NOIDA: Around 40 villages in   and a few small factories remained without power for around 16 hours from Friday evening as workers in a substation refused to resume electric supply after a colleague was shot dead by a man angry over an outage earlier in the day.

 Electricity resumed around 4pm on Friday after the power department gave a Rs 5 lakh cheque to the family of Satveer Singh Tomar, a contractual worker at the Dhoom-Manikpur   who was shot dead on Friday evening. Electricity had been disconnected in the area around 6pm on Friday after dark clouds gathered in the sky and there was a forecast of a storm brewing. 
 
 Neetu Gurjar, a resident of  , called up the substation and asked Tomar, the only official on duty, to restore electricity immediately. Tomar’s family said he had told Neetu power would resume within 30 minutes after the storm settled. Not satisfied with the assurance, Neetu reached the substation with a friend and shot Tomar thrice with a pistol after he refused to restore electric supply in the middle of the storm. Tomar was rushed to Columbia Asia, where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Tomar, a former subedar in the army, worked at the substation on a contractual basis. Neetu was arrested on Friday evening after the family and neighbours of Tomar launched an agitation demanding adequate compensation and a government job. Workers at the substation, too, refused to restore electricity after Tomar was shot dead. 
 
 Officials said the 40-odd villages remained without power from 6pm on Friday to 4am on Saturday. Electricity again snapped around 10am and resumed at 4pm.
 
 Police said the accused Neetu, wanted in at least five cases of murder and attempt to murder, had returned home from a wedding when he found there was no electricity at home on Friday evening. Some residents said he had been watching an IPL match when the sudden power cut infuriated him. 
 
 Kunwarpal, a lineman, said Neetu had visited the substation last month, too, and held a revolver to a junior engineer’s head over a similar demand. 
 
 “Fortunately, he had given in to the demand,” he said. Tomar (55) is survived by his wife Mamta Devi, daughters Shahini (27), Priyanka (24), and Tanu (21), and sons Tarun (18) and Nikhil (16). He had retired from the army in 2009 and had been working at the substation for the past eight months.
 
 AK Singh, superintending engineer of power distribution utility PVVNL (division 2), said electricity would have resumed in 30 minutes had Tomar not been shot dead. “Following the murder, local residents and the substation staff refused to resume supply. The workers were agitated because they had disconnected power on Friday as a preventive measure during the dust storm,” he said. Noida SSP Ajay Pal Sharma said a case had been lodged against Neetu under Sections 302 (murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from discharging duty) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC at Badalpur police station. 
 
 “We are questioning him. We will recommend sections under the National Security Act, too,” he said. 
 
 The power department handed over a Rs 5 lakh cheque to Tomar’s family as compensation. “We are also thinking of offering one of his sons a job,” Singh said.
 
 
