CHANDIGARH: After the sub-committee of Administrator’s Advisory Council (AAC) on law and order presented a worrisome picture, official records reveal that the city has witnessed a sharp increase in organised and drug-related crimes. 

 
  
 From 2010 to 2017, the city has witnessed a jump of over 400% in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases, and the graph of other crimes is also up. As per the official records,   crime cases have gone up from 48 in 2010 to 244 in 2017. The figures of 244 cases and arrests of 250 persons are the highest in two decades.
 
 Between 2010 and 2017, as many as 974 drug-related cases were reported and 980 persons, both men and women, arrested. Of these, 30 were foreign nationals.
 
 The sub-committee of AAC on law and order, under the chairmanship of VK Kapoor, a retired IPS officer, in its presentation given to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday had asserted that the drug cartels were trying to get a hold over the city and the number of addicts has increased manifold.
 
 UT SSP Nilambari Jagadale, who is also member secretary of the AAC sub-committee, refused to comment.
 
 Former   of UT Police Jagbir Singh said, “Increase in number of NDPS cases indicates rise in number of drug users.”
 
 Suggesting measures to check the menace, Singh said, “There is a need to do police station-wise mapping of drug addicts and involve their families in their rehabilitation. Besides, the addicts can help identify drug suppliers. This will help arrest crime, too.”
 
 
 
 
 Banned injections and synthetic drugs are easily available in the city and their rampant use, especially among youngsters, has posed a great challenge to the Chandigarh police. Injections, which are smuggled from Ambala for as less as Rs 30 a piece, are further sold for around Rs 300 a piece, while synthetic drugs, such as smack, can be procured for around Rs 2,000 a gram.
 
 With little checks in place, banned drugs are easily available at chemist shops, especially in the periphery. This has also led to cases of people dying of overdose. In the past three years, 12 youths died of drug overdose. In all the cases, victims were either hooked to smack or other synthetic drugs. In one such case, an 18-year-old son of a Chandigarh police constable was found dead in a forest near Nadda Sahib, Panchkula, on June 19, 2017.
 
 
 
 There has been an increase in number of addicts indulging in crimes, such as snatchings, to buy drugs. This year, around 85 incidents of snatching have been reported and majority of those arrested were addicts for whom attacking women and taking away their belongings was the easiest way to make money.
 
 UT Police on March 21 had accepted before the   and Haryana high court that there has been an increase in crimes, such as snatching. While explaining the reasons, the police had stated, “Most of the snatchers arrested so far are repeat offenders and drug addicts.”
 
 
 
 Local police had recently arrested two brothers, Naman Sehgal, 24, and Subham Sehgal, 27, both drug addicts, with smack. With this, the police claimed to have solved 12 cases of snatching. The duo was first arrested in November last year and later released on bail. They were again arrested in March this year.
 
 
 
