HYDERABAD : Information Technology (IT) has helped the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) solve many consumer-related problems. Owing to IT and ITenabled applications, the water board has been able to attend to 60% of the complaints within a short period of time, officials said.

 The major complaints attended to by the board through IT services relate to water pollution, low pressure of water supply, illegal tapping of water through motors, sewerage overflow, manhole choking and disputes over water bills.
 
 The board gets nearly 2,000 complaints from 21 operation and maintenance (O&M) divisions every day through metro customer care (MCC). But after the launch of services on Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, complaints have been channelized and resolved online. Now, only 800 complaints are received in person by the  .
 
  
 The board presented a paper on use of social media in solving consumer grievances at the third national summit on sustainable water and sanitation held in Bengaluru.
 
 “HMWS&SB is the first to launch IT initiatives through consumer Mobile App, Jal App, WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter. In fact, other states are following us. They are also introducing these IT services,” HMWS&SB directortechnical PS Suryanarayana told TOI.
 
 The board has also begun implementing other initiatives like advanced revenue billing system, tanker management system, real-time water supply SMS alerts, mini jetting machines’ mobile app, a single window cell feasibility app, and the green brigade (GB) app for the redressal of consumers’ problems.
 
 After launching mini jetting machines in the city, over 75% sewerage-related problems have been resolved, Suryanarayana said. He said the board has conducted a survey which revealed that over 85% consumers were satisfied with the services.
 
 “An app developed by us - Jaldi Action   – enables water supply linemen to attend to problems immediately. Issues attended to include valve leakage, pipe leakage, polluted water, sewerage overflow, missing manhole covers, non-receipt of water bill, illegal water connections and request for fixing water meters,” he said.
 
