NEW DELHI: With the halfway mark of   having rolled over, the race for playoffs spots appears, for the time being, to be fairly straightforward.   and Sunrisers Hyderabad, unarguably the two best teams this season, both have 12 points and four more to each will confirm their place in the playoffs. At third on the   2018 points table are Kings XI Punjab with 10 points, and they too appear set to make it past the league stage. 

 
 
 
 
 That leaves two-time winners  , who have four wins and four losses to sit at fourth place, to win at least four of their remaining six matches to stay ahead of Royal Challengers Bangalore and Rajasthan Royals (six points) each, and shut the door on defending champions Mumbai Indians and Delhi Daredevils. According to KKR coach  , the franchise is pushing for a top-two finish. 
 
 
 
 
 KKR's last game was a six-wicket win over RCB on Sunday, and as they return to action today against table-toppers CSK, Kallis was confident of gaining ground on the IPL leaderboard. 
 
 "It is always a huge game against Chennai. MS [Dhoni] has been grabbing the headlines on a regular basis but the team is so much more than him. A top-two finish is still our priority but the old cliché is truer than ever - one game at a time. But there is no need to keep anything in the tank now - it's time to start pushing with everything we have," he wrote in his Times of India column. 
 
 "Naturally, every team prefers to have a healthy win/lose ratio but I'm not too unhappy with a 4:4 record at this stage of the tournament. I regard it as a solid platform from which we can push for a top-two finish. On many occasions I have been part of KKR teams which have won four, five or even six consecutive games, so we all know it is possible - and I have no doubt that this squad is capable of doing exactly that."
 
 KKR have been hit by injuries to   and  , but Kallis saw that as part of the game and not an excuse. 
 
 "We have injury concerns but so do most other teams. The moment you start regretting the loss of players, or start making excuses, is the moment you run the risk of losing the plot. Everybody has to get on with it - injuries are a test of the contingency plans you have put in place," he wrote. "I have said it many times before, but the intensity of the IPL and the pressure it places on players and their support staff is just as much of a challenge as taking wickets and scoring runs. If you complain then you have failed the challenge."
 
