PUDUCHERRY:   arrested a property dealer on charges of duping at least 35 people of more than Rs one crore in the Union territory. The arrested was identified as K Vijay, 33, managing director of Anugraha Property Hire, hailing from Sellaperumalpet, Lawspet in the town limits.

 Deputy inspector general of police (law and order) Rajiv Ranjan said that the modus operandi of the accused was to take houses on monthly   and   them out to others after collecting refundable   (pokkiam) of a few lakhs of rupees, promising to return the money when they vacate the houses.
 
 Vijay mostly targeted people living outside Puducherry or the country and rented their properties on monthly rent. He will stop paying rent to the   owners after two or three months. In the mean time, he would lease out the place to someone. He will later forcibly vacate the lessees without refunding the advance paid by them or after making a part payment, with the help of  . He would then lease the properties to unsuspecting people again after receiving a refundable advance of a few lakhs of rupees from them and so on. He had been cheating several people using this technique for a while. 
 
 The issue came to the light after Sooshma Patil lodged a   with Odiansalai police station charging that Vijay had cheated her of Rs three lakh. The complainant alleged that she entered into an agreement with Vijay and took a house in the town on lease after paying a refundable advance of Rs four lakh on February 14 last year. However, she could not shift to the new property immediately. When she went to occupy the house in September, she was shocked to find another occupant in the house.
 
 She approached Vijay, who said he leased the property to another person as she failed to occupy the house on time and promised to refund the advance of Rs four lakh. After repeated requests, Vijay repaid Rs one lakh, but failed to refund the rest of the advance amount.
 
 Odiansalai police registered a case and managed to trace and arrest Vijay on Saturday. Vijay confessed to cheating more than 35 people of more than Rs one crore. Ranjan appealed to the citizens to not fall prey to such fraudsters and deal directly with the house owners.
 
 
