KOLKATA: A 27-year-old woman was lured into a trap and gang-raped by six people, including three minors, at an abandoned   building — less than 500 metres from her aunt’s place in Taratala — on Friday afternoon.

 The accused, who included a retired CISF official’s son, filmed their depravity on their cell phones and threatened the woman that they would upload the clip on YouTube if she went to the police. But the woman’s mother and her aunt convinced her to report the matter to cops, who picked up all the accused, one by one, in a four-hour raid in the neighbourhood.
 
 The mastermind turned out to be a 15-year-old working in a poultry who had planned the entire crime and, after it was over, returned to the poultry and quietly resumed work.
 
 The survivor is in severe trauma but out of danger. SSKM Hospital doctors released her on Saturday but asked her to return for check-ups.
 
 The woman, a Baguiati resident, was visiting her aunt in Taratala. Around noon on Friday, she was asked to go to the local poultry, just 200 metres away, and buy some chicken. She finished paying for the meat when the 15-year-old offered to carry the heavy packet for her.
 
 “But, instead of taking her through the straight road, he convinced her to take a different route thorough some abandoned buildings. Five of his friends were waiting there,” deputy commissioner (Behala) Meeraz Khalid said. They pushed her into one of the rooms where they raped her. One of them stood guard as the others filmed her. The horror continued for over 35 minutes, after which they released her with the warning. 
 
 She returned home and opened up to her mother. They were at the Taratala police station in a couple of hours, from where the survivor was sent for a medical check-up to SSKM.
 
 The first one to be picked up was the 15-year-old main accused. “We questioned him and arrested the others. The 15-year-old is a resident of the KoPT Colony. The second to be apprehended was Taratala resident Sumit Singh, 23. We then picked up two 17-year-old Maheshtala residents, Abhishek Kumar, 18, and 19-year-old Pradip Kumar Chowdhury,” Khalid said.
 
 “We are trying to get the mobile phones of all the accused to check whether they were into filming and uploading sexual assaults and selling the clips,” said an officer at Lalbazar. A detective department team, along with the forensic team, visited the spot to pick up evidence. “We are arranging for a confidential statement from the girl to be recorded at the earliest,” said another investigating officer.
 
 
