Meenu donned many roles in her life. Being a  , she worked as a daily wager, cook, helper and cleaner to take care of her ailing parents. But, she couldn’t continue with a job for long, due to the stigma associated with her gender. Haunted by trans-phobia, Meenu moved from one job to another, with an inconsistent future. But on Sunday, she was chosen for a consistent role: To play the lead in a docudrama based on the history of transgenders in Tamil Nadu.

 A week ago, when Meenu got an invite to attend a casting call for transgenders aged between 25 and 40, she was a bit worried. Even though she has been doing many ‘roles’ to meet her day-to-day expenses, she never knew how to act in a docudrama. However, her friends encouraged her. It was the first of its kind, and at least 25 transgenders across TN participated in the casting call held at Koothu-P-Pattarai in Chennai.
 
 The 40-minute-long docudrama will unravel the history of transgenders dating back to 4000 years. Director  , a transgender, took five years to research on the topic. Subjects like the role of transgenders, how society treated them and the stigma associated with the gender will be explored in the docudrama. Priya said she would introduce important events in the history of transgenders with evidences in the docudrama, the shooting for which is to begin in July. "We are trying to bring in the docudrama the space for transgenders in the traditional society of the Tamils. We begin our journey 4,000 years ago," said Priya. The docudrama will cover the history of transgenders till the 16th century.
 
 Supported by the Transgender Resource Center in Madurai, the team has travelled across the state to collect material for the docudrama. "We have collected details from ancient sculptures, manuscripts and texts. Travelling from one place to the other was challenging. But we have a team of like-minded people who want to document the history of transgenders in Tamil Nadu," said Jenifer Anandakrishnan, who helps the team in organising the events.
 
 Jenifer says the casting call got tremendous response. "They were very positive. We have selected eight people. We need to train them because this is the first time they will be facing a camera," she said. The team is planning to release it in Tamil with subtitles in English in February 2019.
 
 
