BHOPAL: A year after the   ( ) coming into existence in Madhya Pradesh, it has failed home buyers are still being short-circuited by unscrupulous builders and developers. Figures suggest that buyers in one in every second real estate project in the state feel cheated.

 RERA came into existence in Madhya Pradesh on May 1, 2017.
 
 The figures of MP, RERA states that around 1,700 projects have been registered in MP in the past one year while the total of number cases registered against the projects is over 1,100.
 
 There is more than one complaint in some projects, but overall the figure suggests that there is a complaint against every second project in the state.
 
 The maximum number of complaints are from Bhopal, followed by Indore,   and other big cities of MP. The good news for home- buyers this year is that RERA will be opening its office in Indore soon this year.
 
 RERA, MP is presently based in Bhopal and conduct its monthly circuit courts in Indore and Gwalior. But it will soon have its own set-up in Indore now.
 
 The authority claims it has one of the highest disposal rates of cases in the country. Out of the total cases registered, 500 cases have already been disposed, the authorities claimed.
 
 Most of the complaints relate to delayed possession. Officials said to avoid pendency the first hearing is conducted within a month after receiving the complaint. Efforts are made to settle each case within three to four hearings. In most cases, the authorities try to make the buyer and developer reach a compromise.
 
 It is mandatory for every incomplete and on-going project to register in RERA. The officials said so far over, 1,700 projects have been registered in RERA throughout MP so far.
 
 Further, RERA has issued notices to 50 projects for not registering with it. The authorities said while coming across complaints against few projects, it came to light that these projects were not registered under RERA despite registrations being mandatory for them. Action would be taken on these promoters RERA official said.
 
 
