Bhandara: Ten days to go for polling, but public ennui was visible among voters in Gondia-Bhandara Lok Sabha constituency, where a by-election is scheduled on May 28. Temperatures soaring to around 45 degree C would put off even diehard political people from the dusty streets of this essentially rustic area. The vast constituency is spread over 12 talukas, which takes half a day to traverse, between MP border on one side and stretching to Gadchiroli on the other. “Did we not survive for last five months without an elected MP after Nana Patole resigned. Why elect an MP for six months? Is it not a waste of public money? And the government never has funds for development work,” cribbed Samrit, who runs a busy pan kiosk just outside Tumsar bus stand, with customers around him nodding in agreement. This point is also the crux of the BJP campaign here. Desperately trying to retain the seat it won in 2014, the BJP campaigners have put Patole in the dock for resigning from the Lok Sabha, and the BJP, to necessitate this untimely bypoll. District guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and almost a dozen party legislators, including those from Nagpur, have succeeded in pushing through the idea that Patole could be punished by defeating the NCP-Congress candidate Madhukar Kakde, who is the main rival against BJP’s Hemant Patle. What contributes to the public indifference about elections is the low profile of both the candidates trying to get to the Lok Sabha for the first time. Voters here are otherwise used to see high voltage campaigns by star candidates like NCP veteran Praful Patel on his home turf. Patel also does not hide the fact that Kukde is just a stop gap arrangement and that either he himself or wife Varsha would contest the seat in 2019. At this moment, while it’s a fight between Kukde and Patle, 16 other candidates have no presence in the campaign. The absence of a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) candidate and that of Shiv Sena (SS) is also baffling, as both parties have taken a neutral stance. The NCP Congress campaign mainly rests on Praful Patel’s shoulders, and to be fair to him, he is putting in efforts. Braving the sizzling day time heat, he was seen campaigning the entire day on Friday, with the day’s first public meeting at noon at Sihora drawing around 1,000 people, giving him a big boost. The BJP poll drill led by Bawankule, MLCs Anil Sole and Parinay Fuke, is expected to pick up with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari scheduled to address election rallies here on Saturday and Sunday. Gadkari has already sold some dreams to the electorate here with his earlier talk of the possibility of connecting Bhandara with Nagpur by Metro train network. “This could give a fillip to the real estate business in Bhandara, as people may buy houses here to avoid sky rocketing prices of Nagpur, and commute easily,” said an enthused Lalit Shukla, manning the BJP election office at Tumsar. With the campaign now peaking, it could well be a close tussle between Kukde and Patle, with the latter enjoying a slight advantage of BJP’s strong network in its traditional stronghold, right from Jan Sangh days. Kukde has been three-time MLA, and all three times he had won on BJP ticket. Now, he is the NCP candidate, having joined it in 2014, when he contested for the assembly seat again, but lost. He is Bhandara district president of NCP. Patle was BJP MLA from Goregaon seat for 2009-14 term, and he is Gondia district president of BJP. Though evenly poised, Patle’s Powar community and Kukde’s Kunti roots could decide the poll outcome.