Nagpur: Water shortage has led to battle lines being drawn in Washim district. Summers are usually harsh, and this is a worse year. As dams are drying up, the district administration has come up with measures to divert waters from irrigation projects meant for rural areas to the towns.

 The villagers are up in arms against the move. Led by self-styled activists, a subtle political backing to the protests cannot be ruled out. Anti-dam activist Medha Patkar has also jumped into the bandwagon backing the rural population in one of the pockets. As TOI travelled into the district, a dire need was seen on both the sides. This means championing the cause of any one can bring political mileage. Zilla parishad elections are due in next six months here.
 
 Protests have already taken place at three different pockets of Washim, where water from dams meant for irrigation is being diverted to nearby towns or tehsil places. These include Selubazaar village and Mangrulpir town, Kokalgaon and Washim district headquarters, Malegaon and Chakatirth area.
 
 The villages get water from their respective borewells maintained by the panchayat and not the dams. However, the villages’ lobby says if the dam water is taken away it would also deplete the level in borewells which are ebbing too. Experts admit that drawing the dam water at this juncture can affect the groundwater level.
 
 Sachin Kulkarni, who styles himself as a water rights worker, says out of 750 villages, water disputes have cropped up in 200 villages. In 2015-16, Rs81 crore were spent under Jalyukta Shivar, the chief minster Devendra Fadnavis’s pet water conservation drive. Over 4,000 facilities were created but despite 75% of rainfall during the last year no benefit was seen,” he says.
 
 Last week, Selubazaar, which has a population of 10,000, had closed down in protest against the move to divert water from Sonala dam which caters to a block of over 20 villages here. Mangrulpir, with a population of 35,000, is worse off.
 
 “We are not supported by any political party, this is our own cause. The situation will be worse if we allow water in Sonala to be taken away. This can end up being a permanent arrangement,” said Ganesh Gaikee, sarpanch of Selubazaar. The locals will not mind if water from Sonala is sent to Mangrulpir in tankers but not through a pipeline, he said.
 
 At Selubazaar, water is supplied once in 3-4 days. “One day there was no water at my place. I rushed to my neighbour’s place but fainted on the way,” says Premlata Ujjawane showing the blood clot marks on her head. “We will not allow water to be diverted to Mangrulpir,” she said.
 
 At Mangrulpir, water is available only once in 8 to 10 days. “If those at Selubazaar are adamant, even we are prepared for a stand off,” said a local Jamil Quereshi.
 
 Gazala Khan, chairperson of Mangrulpir Municipal Council, said, “If nothing works out, we will get the work done under police protection. They have already done so in Malegaon.”
 
 Washim district headquarters too gets water once in eight days. The Ekburji dam, which caters to it, has dried up. A pipeline is being laid to get transport water from Kokalgaon barrage, 17 kms away.
 
 Residents from Kokalgaon and 11 other villages had held protests with five persons going on a hunger strike. “I had written to the collector to have a dialogue with the locals but the authorities did not heed. They should at least come clear on the level in the barrages from where the water will be diverted to Washim,” said Medha Patkar.
 
 District collector Rahul Videady said the issue is being unnecessarily hyped and it will be just a temporary arrangement. On the water levels going down, he said, “Based on the projections, water which would flow away during rains will only be drawn for the towns.”
 
 Rajeev Patni, BJP MLA and district unit president, said he had pursued the matter with the authorities. “Washim has a population of 90,000 and it’s just 2,000 in Kokalgaon, so the former should get a priority,” he said.
 
 
