MUMBAI: Every woman has the power to make a difference, regardless of her sector or sphere of influence, Cherie Blair, lawyer and founder of  , said at The Economic Times Women’s Forum here on Friday.

 Listing a few guiding principles that India could apply to unleash the power of half a billion,   asked women to be the change they wish to see in the world. She urged women to support each other. “Create supportive, professional networks for women in your sector and workplaces. Listen, learn and share with one another. Celebrate and elevate one another. Hire one another,” she said. According to her, investing in women is often the best investment one can make, “because empowered women empower others”. At her foundation’s online mentoring programme, 80% of mentees pass on what they’d learnt to others, while 50% become mentors.
 
 Thinking and acting inclusive was another principle Blair stressed upon. “While there are challenges we all share as women, there are also many differences in our experiences. That’s why it’s so important that we push for a diversity of women’s voices to be heard — for example, women with disabilities, from marginalised communities, LGBT and from different socio-economic backgrounds,” said Blair.
 
 Lastly, Blair talked about enlisting male allies. “Men are often gatekeepers of power. They are often the source of many of the challenges we face as women, so they must be a part of the solution,” said Blair, who is the wife of former UK Prime Minister, Tony Blair.
 
 While praising India’s vibrancy and entrepreneurialism, Blair said it’s this boundless energy that plays a huge part in India’s incredible rise as a geopolitical and economic powerhouse.
 
 However, given that India has one of the world’s lowest rates of female participation in the labour force — 65% of Indian women with college degrees are out of work — Blair said the opportunity is the unlimited potential of Indian women as business owners, job creators and leaders in their communities. “The statistics on women’s economic empowerment in India make for disappointing reading, but we must remember that women are so much more than one-dimensional statistics,” she said.
 
 During her time at Downing Street, Blair travelled the world and met countless women in India and beyond, who were striving to set up businesses to create better lives for themselves and their families. “I soon realised that with the right support and the right tools, these women could go on to achieve amazing things — not just for themselves, but for their families and communities too,” she said.
 
 Established in 2008, the   Foundation for Women has supported over 140,000 women from more than 100 countries.
 
