TRICHY: Universities offering distance education courses are left in a fix after the recent announcement from   (UGC) that a minimum CGPA of 3.26, on a four point scale, in National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) is necessary to run the courses. 

 The higher education department has now asked UGC to relax its norms facilitating all state universities to run distance education courses. It has also directed the seven state universities that are left out to make individual representation to UGC in this regard.
 
 Of the 119 dual mode universities in the country that offer distance education courses, less than 40 are eligible as per the new UGC rule. This has left 80 universities in a fix. In Tamil Nadu only three universities out of the total 10 that offer distance courses under the higher education department are eligible and the rest have to close down.
 
 "While Anna, Madras and Alagappa University are safe, universities like Annamalai in Chidambaram which began offering distance education much before Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) are on the verge of closure," said senior officials from the higher education department.
 
 Bharathiar University which has been ranked 12th in the country in the NIRF ranking, cannot offer courses in distance mode as it has a CGPA of 3.11 on the four point scale under NAAC. "We have decided to approach UGC seeking relaxation of up to 3.0 in the Category 2 from the existing 3.26, so that all state universities are eligible to run courses," said vice chancellor of Bharathidasan University P Manisankar. 
 
 Wishing to be anonymous, another state university V-C said that the UGC should have stability in its policies. "It is wrong to come out with such decisions without consulting the universities. The UGC did not bother about what will happen to the students currently enrolled in these distance education courses," the V-C said.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University S Sivasubramanian who holds experience in heading various NAAC committees said that he stands for quality and that whenever there is relaxation in norms, people tend to misuse it. However, he added that time bound relaxation can be considered for students who are currently enrolled. He also said that the universities should prove to be competent and eligible to run such courses.
 
 Former president of association of university teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan claimed that the move was to cut down on the number of universities offering distance education. 
 
 
