CHENNAI: The travel time by road between southern and western districts is expected to come down as the   will soon convert three two-way stretches between Dindigul and Pollachi into four-way routes at an estimated ₹2,122 crore.

 
 Tenders were floated on Wednesday for all three projects to be taken up under Phase 1 of the Bharatmala Pariyojana.
 
  
  
 As per the initial proposed design, toll plazas will come up on these sections at Semmadaipatty, Paraipatti, Chatrapatti and Gomangalam Puthur and are expected to have at least eight entry and exit lanes. The toll locations can change depending on discussions with the independent engineer and   authorities. At present, there are no toll plazas on these stretches.
 
 Though the tender documents do not speak about the exact number of trees to be felled, they say more than 30,000 trees should be planted as part of the compensatory afforestation component under the scheme.
 
 
 
 
 A top NHAI official said that of the three sections to be taken up for four-laning, vehicle density was the highest on the Dindigul-Oddanchatram stretch, with most government moffusil buses, operated as bypass special services between Madurai and Coimbatore, running along it skipping   town.
 
 “Once this two-way stretch is upgraded into a four-way road, travel time is expected to come down by at least 20 minutes,” the official told TOI on condition of anonymity. Besides, he said, the number of road accidents was also expected to come down as instances of overtaking could drop. No major civic infrastructure is set to coming up along the stretch with an average width of 15 metres except for 18 bus stops.
 
 The Oddanchatram-Madathukulam section of NH-209 (now NH 83) has 14 bridges, 105 culverts and three level crossings making the expansion process comparatively difficult for the contractor, said NHAI sources. Width of carriageway in this section varies from 7 to 14 metres. Sources added that the travel time to smaller towns like Tirupur, Udumalaipet, Dharapuram and tourist hotspots like   will also be cut down after the construction is over. Facilities like rest areas, truck laybyes, bus bays, traffic and medical aid posts, vehicle rescue posts and utility crossings would be provided alongside a pedestrian facility.
 
 
