Chennai: In what could come as a big relief for Chennaiites living in the suburbs, the state government on Thursday expanded the   — in line with   (GCC) — extending the area of jurisdiction more than 426sqkm from the existing 178.6sqkm. For seven years now, these expanded areas remained in the jurisdiction of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, leaving residents in the lurch for accessing government revenue services -- from land records to social security pension schemes and government certificates.

 Chennai district was formed in 1969 with five taluks, and was last expanded in 1979 by adding villages of the erstwhile Chengalpet district. "It will be of great help in mounting the coordinated response to disasters under the unified chain of command," revenue and disaster management secretary B Chandra Mohan said. The expansion will bring two lakh people from the taluks of Sholinganallur, Alandur, Maduravoyal, Ambattur, Madhavaram, Tiruvottiyur and Ponneri under Chennai district.
 
 When the corporation was expanded in 2011, the   areas began approaching the local body for services like sanitation and solid waste management but for revenue services they had to reach out to far off Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur collectorates. The challenges were exposed during the time of natural disasters, when the corporation had to coordinate with three district collectors to implement a plan regarding land matters and slum development. GCC commissioner D Karthikeyan said there was a "bit of coordination issue" due to different jurisdiction, which could now be done away with. The regional commissioners of the corporation can coordinate with the now-reorganised three revenue divisional officers of Tondiarpet, Ambattur and Guindy.
 
 It was an ordeal for elected representatives like Madhavaram MLA S Sudarsanam, who had to visit Tiruvallur collectorate, 40km from his constituency with petitions on crop loans and pension for his electorate, and reach out to Ripon Buildings for garbage disposal. "The added areas will now get priority even for shifting overhead power cables," the DMK MLA said. 
 
 Experts hope urban infrastructure planning and implementation will become better, as Chennai collector is the custodian of land records and will be able to provide required details to infrastructure agencies. Credai TN chapter former president, N Nandakumar, said: "For development of real estate under the affordable housing segment, in due course, these taluks would invariably become part of the Chennai Metropolitan landscape, which would get complimented by integration of public transport, workplace and housing."
 
 The expansion is unavoidable due to the development and opportunities cities offer. "The expansion of the corporation has brought better civic services, now with the district expansion, other related administration like law and order and land revenue will be aligned with same jurisdiction, which will ensure smoother implementation. There will not be much of a change in land values, but new areas in Chennai district might have a marginal increase in demand," JLL India strategic consulting, national director A Shankar said.
 
 
