BENGALURU: Two more labourers from an east Bengaluru construction site, where an outbreak of cholera claimed two lives late last week, were brought to St John's Medical College Hospital on Monday. 

  Late last week, 25 people showed cholera-like symptoms at the construction site of Sobha Developers near Varthur Lake . They were rushed to St John's Hospital on Friday and two of them died the same day. All the affected were housed in one of the two make-shift camps at the site. 
 
  "Two new patients were brought in and they are now stable. Of the 21 workers who were brought in earlier, seven were discharged against medical advice. They still had diarrhoea. One of the patients is undergoing dialysis in the ICU and his condition is stable," said Dr  , chief of medical services, St John's Medical College Hospital. 
 
 Workers at the site complained of unhygienic conditions and said the water provided to them was stored in open tanks. Following the deaths, labourers have fled the camp in large numbers. 
 
  Dr Krishnappa B K, medical officer, Varthur Primary Health Centre, said the first water sample that was sent for analysis tested negative for cholera. "We will get the results of the second sample only on Tuesday," he said. However, this doesn't mean the water wasn't contaminated. 
 
  "I visited the construction site in the morning and inspected the area. There were only 40 toilets for 3,200 people. Due to this, many defecated in the open. Kitchen facilities were also unhygienic. Further, the workers were living in cramped quarters, with up to 14 people sharing a single room," said Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner, health and solid waste management, BBMP. 
 
  "The developers said they will rectify the situation by building toilets and providing drinking water, and that they have already started cleaning the place. If this is not done, then the construction will be stopped," Khan said. 
 
  "We have filed a complaint with the   about the condition of the workers at the camp. Another worker, who was admitted to the ICU at St. Philomena's Hospital, is also stable," said  , advocate and human rights activist. 
 
