Three heavyweight women politicians are sweating it out to leave their mark in the maledominated political landscape of Belagavi, the district of Rani Kittur Channamma.

 While Shashikala Jolle, one-time MLA from Nippani, is emerging a formidable politician by winning the seat for the second time, Dr Anjali Nimbalkar, gynaecologist and wife of IPS officer Hemanth Nimbalkar, and   women’s wing president Lakshmi Hebbalkar are all grit, and undeterred by earlier electoral setbacks are making a determined bid to enter the assembly.
 
 
 
 
 The three women candidates have never shied away from using tried and tested ways to lure voters as their male counterparts do. While Hebbalkar is accused of presenting her voters with cookers, stoves and other household articles, Jolle allegedly waived two loan instalments availed by self-help groups from her Beereshwara Cooperative Credit Society. Anjali Nimbalkar has been helping the poor get educational and health facilities.
 
 
 
 
 Hailing from a prominent political family in Maharashtra, Dr Anjali is trying her luck for the second time in Khanapur, dominated by Marathi-speaking people. She had secured 17,000 votes in 2013 as an independent. Now with the   giving her a ticket and also making her an   member, Anjali is high on confidence. “I will create history by winning this time,” says Anjali. Doing her bit to reach out to people through her Dr Anjalitai Foundation, she chose Khanapur as her workplace when her husband was SP of Belagavi for four years.
 
 However, people say she has an uphill task against sitting MES MLA Aravind Patil. JD(S) candidate Nasir Bagwan, who built two bridges for villagers, is also a strong contender, says a local political observer.
 
 
 
 
 Shashikala Jolle,   MLA from Nippani, is seeking a second term from Nippani, bordering Maharashtra. She is pitted against former MLA Kakasaheb Patil this time too.
 
 Jolle, a first-generation politician, her husband and other family members own Beereshwara Cooperative Society, which has a Rs 1,000-crore annual turnover and runs 151 branches and a chain of educational institutions, supermarkets and skill development training centres.
 
 “The society’s activities gave her a much-needed connect with voters and that’s why she won the last election. This time too she stands a fair chance,” says Parashuram, a government employee from Nippani and a resident of Bengaluru.
 
 Her husband   is BJP nominee from neighbouring Chikkodi-Sadalaga constituency.
 
 
 
 
 From being a nobody in the Congress to becoming KPCC women’s wing president, Lakshmi Hebbalkar has come a long way in politics. Having tasted defeat in the 2014 Lok Sabha and 2013 assembly polls, Hebbalkar is leaving no stone unturned to win Belagavi Rural this time.
 
 She is facing twotime MLA Sanjay Patil, Manohar Kinekar of MES and Shivanagouda Patil of the JD(S).
 
 Active in the constituency for the past 3-4 years, she has managed to get some work done using her links in the government. Like her male counterparts in the district, Hebbalkar too started a sugar mill to build a network of supporters. She claims credit for helping the Congress wrest Belagavi taluk panchayat from the MES after a long time.
 
 But Congress insiders say Hebbalkar’s own party leaders pose a threat to her as they fear she will only grow if elected MLA, given her connections in AICC.
 
 
