NEW DELHI: Senior advocate   stormed into Monday’s hearing on PILs requesting the   for an independent probe into special CBI judge B H Loya’s death and attempted to silence senior advocate   by making personal insinuations and charges. 

 Dave made no bones about targeting Salve, who was appearing for the Maharashtra government and explaining that there was nothing suspicious in Loya’s death as four district judges were present with him from the time he suffered a heart attack till his hospitalisation and death. 
 
 Dave said Salve was violating professional ethics by appearing for the state government when he had been the counsel for BJP chief Amit Shah, one of the accused who was discharged from the   ‘fake’ encounter case being tried by Loya at the time of his death. 
 
 “Salve should not be permitted to appear for the state. The case calls for an independent probe. Let the Bombay high court decide the pending PILs,” Dave said. He is the counsel for one of the petitioners before the HC and had intervened in the proceedings before the SC. Salve maintained his calm, advised Dave to “focus on the case in hand” and brushed aside his insinuations and said, “I am not here to take a certificate from Dave on ethics. Dave is raising his voice and insinuating not to argue merits of the case but to cater to people outside the court.” 
 
 Abench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud repeatedly asked Dave not to raise his voice and said, “We are looking at the circumstances in which Loya died. Let it not be deflected by personal allegations. You (the advocates) should decide whether or not someone should appear for a particular client. We are not   to look into complaints of violations of professional ethics.” Dave went on with his diatribe against one and all and said, “It appears that one institution is going all out to protect one person.” He did not elaborate as to who that person was but conceded that “as of today, it appears that Loya died a natural death”. However, he added that there was enough suspicion of foul play requiring adetailed independent inquiry. 
 
 The bench said, “If, as of today, it appears to be a natural death, why cast aspersions? Let us look at the matter dispassionately and objectively without getting deflected by personal allegations.”
 
 
