NEW DELHI: A protest march by students of Jawaharlal Nehru University and Delhi University on Friday resulted in police action in which even journalists were manhandled. 

 The protesters from both universities had reached   around 4.30pm, but were stopped by the police who had barricaded the road to stop them from going towards Lutyens’ Delhi. As students tried to force their way past the barricades,   broke out between the police and students. During this, 41 policemen and 35 students were injured. The SHO of Hauz Khas police station had to be admitted to a hospital with critical head injuries. 
 
  chief spokesperson Dependra Pathak said that the students had been denied permission to hold a protest due to a visit by the German chancellor. But the students insisted and were eventually allowed to hold a peaceful protest at Sanjay Lake. But later, they defied orders and tried to climb over barricades to go towards Lutyens’ Delhi. That’s when they were stopped.
 
 “We had to use water cannons and mild force to restrain them, and 23 students found creating ruckus were detained while the rest were dispersed. The police showed extreme restraint in dealing with them,” Pathak said.
 
 But amid all this, women journalists from two dailies were manhandled and their cameras and phones damaged for clicking photographs from a distance. In a video that was shot during the protest, a photojournalist was seen being dragged away by policewomen who were far from containing the protests. They manhandled the   until a senior woman IPS officer rescued her. 
 
 “It seems the police were specifically asked to take the cameras and cellphones, and delete recordings or photos,” said Praveen Kumar Singh, a reporter from an online English publication. Some of the journalists whose cameras were taken away by the police said that they were not returned till late in the night and were instead offered replacements. 
 
 Delhi Police spokesperson Madhur Verma said the vigilance branch of Delhi Police has been asked to probe into the incidents of violence against the journalists and appropriate action would be taken against the errant personnel. 
 
 Meanwhile, Lok Sabha MPs Sushmita Dev and Ashok Tanwar reached the protest site to meet the students. 
 
 Sunny Dhiman a student who was detained, told TOI that they were taken away to Defence Colony police station “where the police slapped us and abused us”. Eight of the detainees were women. 
 
 JNUSU president Geeta Kumari invoked the death anniversary of Bhagat Singh to say they would be victorious. 
 
 
