HYDERABAD: The Centre and Andhra Pradesh are now at loggerheads over the prized Araku organic coffee that is exported to countries like Italy, UAE, Spain and France. The   of India under the Union ministry of commerce & industry and the Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) Limited, Government of AP, are both claiming geographical indication (GI) tag for Araku organic coffee grown in Araku Valley of Vishakapatnam.

 While GCC of AP applied for GI for Araku coffee on April 22, 2016, the Coffee Board of India filed its application on January 1, 2018 claiming GI tag for Araku Valley Arabica. Both the applications are under examination by the Chennai-based GI registry. Assistant registrar of the Chennai-based Geographical Indications Registry Chinnaraja G Naidu told TOI, “The Coffee Board of India has challenged GCC’s application for GI tag stating that it is not the right claimant to apply for Araku Valley coffee. We will examine both and then take a decision.”
 
 The Coffee Board in its application claimed that the state of Odisha adjoining Araku Valley also grows coffee and that and all these areas are tagged together geographically.
 
 According to Coffee Board, at least 7,000 metric   is produced every year in Araku Valley.
 
 
  “Araku Valley coffee is grown in the hilly terrains of Agency mandals of Paderu, Pedabayalu, Munchingput, G Madugula, Hukumpeta, Araku, Dumbriguda, Anantagiri, GKVeedhi and Chintapalli. Koraput region, Odisha, has also emerged as one of the coffee producing hubs and comprises Koraput, Nandapur, Similiguda, Pottangi, Dasmanthpur, Lamtaput and  . In addition to Koraput, coffee also is grown in some parts of Kandhamal, Rayagada, Keunjor, Gajapati & Kalahandi. Since the soil and temperature are similar in these regions, they have been included in the geographical indication for Araku Valley Arabica,” said sources in the Coffee Board.
 
 An official of GCC, said, “After we applied for GI tag, the registry sent it to the Coffee Board for comments. The board instead of furthering our cause, sat on it and itself applied for the tag. We are a   corporation and we will fight our case legally for the right.”
 
