NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has registered an FIR against two senior officials of the   for allegedly embezzling approximately Rs 52 lakh from their South Extension branch.

 The fraud was reported when the monthly reconciliation statements were sent from all the branches of the bank to the head office. Officials analysing the data noted that the entries had been made on dates when the bank was closed for public holidays. Upon closely scrutinising the logs, it was revealed that Rs 52 lakh had been siphoned off through fictitious transactions into accounts.
 
 The FIR was registered on Friday as per the directives of the Saket court. Officials from the litigation cell of the bank told cops that the accused employees have been in the branch since 2015.
 
 While analysing the data, it was noted that entries were made on June 26, 2017, which was a public holiday due to   and the bank was closed.
 
 “It was revealed in the scrutiny that fictitious entries have been made on several occasions in 2016 into multiple loan accounts. The amount shown in these entries was debited from the bank’s account and credited into the account of one of the officials,” the officials from the head office told police.
 
 The bank said that no transaction can be processed into a loan account without the approval of the branch officials who approve it digitally using their login IDs through a software. It was found that one of the accused shared his digital credentials with his senior. After getting the approval through wrong means, they transferred money from March 2016 to June 2017 in small amounts.
 
 After discovering the fraud and conducting the internal enquiry, the two employees from the branch were terminated from service. The   alleged that they approached the police on January 23, 2018.
 
 The siphoned off amount has been recovered from the bank officials who confessed to the crime in the internal enquiry. Police officers are also investigating the role of other employees from the branch to ascertain their involvement in the embezzlement of funds.
 
 
