NAGPUR:   (NU) vice-chancellor SP Kane has finally notified the nominations for   but with a set of completely new members, who belong to the BJP-backed Shikshan Manch.

 The move came as a major embarrassment for those who were earlier nominated and were also asked to furnish undertaking that they met the criteria, following approval from the chancellor’s office.
 
 Only two of the 11 nominated members have been retained from the earlier list, while the remaining 9 candidates have been dropped without any explanation.
 
 The earlier list included five representatives from the Secular Panel and at least three from the Shikshan Manch, which is closely associated with RSS. Now, all the names are from Shikshan Manch.
 
 In July last year, Kane had forwarded a list comprising Dipti Christian, Devendra Mohture, Rajesh Pande, Mrunalini Fadnavis, Sanjay Charalwar, Akhilesh Peshwe, Vijay Dhote, Arvind Deshmukh, Vikas Dhomne (all principals), Vivek Nanoti, Ujwala Chakradev and   (teachers category).
 
 In November, the chancellor while giving approval had asked NU to seek any undertaking and conduct police verification.
 
 In December, only Bhandara’s Jasubhai Patel College’s principal Dhomne had declared him ineligible for the membership since his institution’s NAAC accreditation expired, when all had submitted the undertakings.
 
 One of the teachers nominated earlier admitted that the move did hurt him. “Obviously, others too must have felt the same. On both occasions, we came to know about our names being proposed for nominations through media reports. None from the university had the courtesy to inform us,” the teacher said.
 
 He said that it was not an issue if the names were dropped because they didn’t meet the requisite qualification. “But, if it was for political pressure, then it is sad and condemnable,” he added.
 
 Kalpana Pande, co-ordinator of Shikshan Manch, said the earlier list had unqualified members. “That list had principals whose colleges did not have NAAC accreditation. Also, in the professor category, those were not actually professors,” she said.
 
 Kane didn’t respond to TOI’s calls. Last week, he had indicated that there would be some changes in the nomination list.
 
 New list
 
 Principals
 
 Shriram Bhuskute (Bhavbhuti Mahavidyalaya Amgaon, Gondia), Ajay Mohabanshi (Arts & Commerce College, Bhandara), Sanjay Patankar (SS Jaiswal College, Gondia), Rajesh Pande (Ramdeobaba College of Engineering & Management), Pravin Charde (Sevadal Mahavidyalaya),   (JD College of Engineering & Management), Mrunalini Fadnavis (Mahila Mahavidyalaya), Keshav Patil (Tirpude College of Social Work)
 
 Teachers 
 
 Anand Pande (YCCE), Rajendra Kakade (NU Pharmaceutical Sciences department), Vinayak Irpate (Mahatma Gandhi Arts & Commerce College, Parseoni)
 
 
