JAIPUR: A day after Rajasthan panchayati raj minister   alleged that   denied ticket to ex-union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh in Alwar   bypoll so Rajputs should vote for BJP, Congress spokesperson and Rajput leader   Khachariyawas asked why Rathore and his fellow ministers were silent when BJP denied ticket to   (former external affairs minister) in 2014 general elections or when Raje-government neglected BJP stalwart Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in the state.

 Minister Rathore’s plea followed after various Rajput, Ravana Rajput and Charan Rajput organisations on Sunday declared support to the opposition Congress in the upcoming bypolls alleging that state BJP government had been ill-treating and ignoring these communities.
 
 “Bhanwar Jitendra Singh is not someone who has to be given the party ticket but he is among Congress leaders who give party tickets to candidates. It is on Singh’s recommendation that Dr Karan Singh Yadav was given Congress ticket from Alwar,” claimed Khachariyawas. 
 
 Addressing a press conference here on Monday, the Congress spokesperson said, “Where were the BJP leaders when people from Rajput and Ravana Rajput communities were fired upon by the police in Sanvrad. People were peacefully protesting against the encounter of Anandpal when police fired at them. He said BJP ministers were then enjoying a party and mocking at youths who were being tortured by the police.”
 
 “There are 24 Rajput MLAs in BJP but none of them opened their mouths against this atrocity and injustice,” Khachariyawas said.
 
 Khachariyawas asked, “Where was Rajendra Rathore when   Singh, considered as the Man Friday of former Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, was denied party ticket from Barmer. Now Jaswant Singh is in coma but none of the BJP leaders have bothered to visit him.” 
 
 He also alleged that the party’s first chief minister and veteran leader Bhairon Singh Shekhawat has been forgotten by the present BJP dispensation. “Why there is not a single scheme named after the former chief minister,” asked the Congress leader. 
 
 
