KOLKATA: For than 25 years, Academy Award-nominated documentary filmmaker   has been working on human rights storytelling. After his powerful documentary titled “Not My Life” was screened at the American Centre Trafficking conclave that was followed by a session with actor-author-activist Nandana Dev Sen and American Centre Kolkata director  , Bilheimer told TOI that he is “frightened” at the migration-trafficking crisis intersect around the world.

 Bilheimer mentioned that currently the world has more than 65 million or 70 million people on the move. When this “extraordinarily vulnerable people” have to flee, it is purely and clearly logical that human traffickers will feast on them. Referring to the trafficking issues threatening the Rohingyas during a post-screening interview to TOI, he said, “Because of the vulnerable Rohingyas, Bangladesh is becoming one of the centres of trafficking of the world along with Libya. I recently read that an entire generation of Rohingya children might be wiped out because of what’s happening there at the moment. Again, that’s mostly at the hands of human traffickers,” he said. According to him, the danger and problem with the narrative around the global migration is that it is “exclusive” whereas it should ideally be “inclusive”. That’s also one reason why he is so committed to making his next film titled “Heart of the Matter” – the trailer of which was shown at the American Centre on Friday evening.
 
 Speaking on what’s unique about  , Bilheimer mentioned their “blatancy” of approach. Unlike other parts of the world, traffickers here don’t even get into sweet-talking to kidnap the uneducated or vulnerable. “A child just gets kidnapped. The law enforcement agencies in India are beginning to be on the lookout of these guys. Another unique part about India is that many sex traffickers are people that the family knows.”
 
 However, he admitted that India is more advanced than the US in terms of institutional rehabilitation of programmes, policies and centres. Recently, he had interviewed a number of women judges from New York state and asked them how many have had human trafficking case in their court in the last year. Not one had raised their hand, he said, adding, “We have a long way to go. I do feel if awareness of the issue was at a much higher level than it is now, this would begin to change.”
 
 
