"The first time I tried beatboxing for people, I ended up spitting on them,” recalls Jarryd D’Abreo, 20, a TYBSc student of St Xavier’s College. Whether it is in between two lectures or while taking a shower, walking on the streets or just whiling away time giving additional beats to music, many youngsters have taken up the hobby of beatboxing seriously.
Often considered as the fifth element of the hip-hop culture, this high-energy vocal percussion involves mimicking instruments with one’s mouth. In a chat with some budding beatboxers, they tell us what lures them to beatboxing, the difficulties involved in it and the minimal presence of female beatboxers, in the midst of some throat tap, lip rolls and kick drums…
 
 
 
 The reasons are plenty. Unlike a lot of other skills, this can be learnt at a much later stage in life, with just the internet as your tutor. Add to this, TV shows, movies and online tutorials on video sharing sites have also been instrumental in giving this a boost. “Almost a year back, I was watching TV when I chanced upon a performance by flute beatboxer Sudhir R. I started following his videos and watched other similar beatboxing tutorials. That’s how I got into this. Since it was vacation time, I had enough time to work on my skills. Once you master a few beats, it catches on to you and you only want to get better at it,” explains Clinston Christopher, a FYBSc (IT) student of SIES Sion.
 Elaborating on why it’s a hit among the young, Vikrant Kandhari, a TYBMM student of  , says, “At college festivals, it’s a huge crowd-puller. I am a part of our college festival’s core team and often, we need fillers to entertain the audience; it makes for an entertaining act. It’s like the new guitar — a great way to get some cheers and applause.”
 Yet another reason is the way it is learnt. Divesh Asrani, a TYBMS student of RD National College, says, “I can start doing this whenever I am free — even while eating, in the middle of my studies. There’s no dedicated time and space to practise this; in fact, anybody can take it up.”
 
 
 
 As if dry lips, sore throat, swollen face and headaches weren’t enough, these youngsters have to face societal constraints too, especially resistance from parents. Says Clinston, “When I took up beatboxing, my family thought that I won’t pay attention to my studies. Something offbeat like this comes as a surprise to them. In fact, my first performance was at a talent competition at a church gathering. While the older lot didn’t get it, many youngsters approached me to learn the same. That’s when my mother was convinced.” Adds Bijoy Benny, a FYBSc (IT) student at SIES Sion, “While it is considered cool in my group, my mother poses questions like ‘What is this phus phus sound that you’re making all day?’ It’s hard for them to consider it as a skill.” 
 For  , a TYBMS student of RD National College, who has taken to beatboxing recently, the venue posed a major problem. She says, “You need a calm atmosphere to hear yourself. One can’t do it at home because of the sounds around you — the pressure cooker, mixer grinder. There’s a lot happening around. If you practise it in a public space, people will think you’re crazy and are bound to give you looks. There were times I had to practise it on the skywalk and those around would stare at me.”
 
 
 
 While internationally, Emma Watson and   beatbox like a boss, there’s not much progress on the home front. The numbers, in fact, are a revelation. With no particular constraint, one wonders why beatboxing lacks in female presence. Priyanka reasons, “It has more to do with the mentality of the girls. Most feel that the baritone and bass is what matters when beatboxing, and that’s why it is best for boys. Girls generally have soft voice, so it is difficult to get that kind of sound, but I don’t know why they wouldn’t use it to their benefit. I was sceptical about the same, but I am over it.”
 Anushka Sanjay, 15, was watching Pitch Perfect a year ago when she thought of taking up beatboxing. Ever since, the Class 10 student has been working on her b-boxing sounds. She says, “I think it’s a basic stereotype most fall into. I have friends who love it when I beatbox. In fact, I want to take it up full-fledgedly, and my parents have been supportive of me so far. I can’t wait to be in college, brush up my skills and participate in competitions. I wish more girls take it up.”
 
 
 
 While most see this limited to talent hunt rounds, it wouldn’t be a surprise to see it become mainstream soon. Most, however, are sceptical about taking it up professionally. Says Bijoy, “If I was also a singer, it would have been a different thing altogether. But, as of now, it doesn’t look like a lucrative career option as there’s no dedicated 
 platform for it.”
 Priyanka feels that it’s just a matter of time for beatboxing to go mainstream. “Dance and singing reality shows have changed the way we look at beatboxing as a profession. ‘Why beatboxing?’ has given way to ‘Why not beatboxing?’ Overcoming this prejudice will take some time. Someday, at a family get-together, we will be able to put up this act in front of our relatives just like singing and dancing,” she concurs. 
 
