CHANDIGARH: For HIV-positive people to get medical attention without being harassed, health practitioners should put “universal precaution” and not their   status on medical cards, says Puja Thakur, HIV-positive activist for the cause.

 At a TOI event related to the national girl child campaign, she talked about the harassment that the HIV-positive people face in hospitals where they go in search of medication. She said: “My husband refused to go to hospital because laboratory technicians would ask him awkward questions like whether he had any extra-marital affair. The law says the HIV-positive status is not to be disclosed, so why is on the pateints’ medical cards?”
 
 She pointed out that the medical term for HIV-positive is “universal precaution”, about which only a few people know. She urged the health department to promote the term so that patients are treated with dignity. Disclosure of their HIV-positive status renders patients vulnerable to harassment at the hands of chemists, who pry into their medical history and personal life.
 
 No school is ready to accept her children. Local MP   found it strange that doctors were writing the HIV-positive status on medical cards. She underlined the need to spread awareness about the way the HIV-positive people should be treated, and said laboratory techinicians should correct their mindset. “I ask people to accept   as a medical problem like cancer.”
 
 Pooja’s life changed after she was screened with this medical issue. Not only her in-laws but also her parents denied her financial help for treatment. “Don’t go for the treatment,” her in-laws said, “Society is making fun of us.” This after she lost her husband to the disease. “An HIV-postive person can live a normal life up to 60,” Pooja said.
 
 Her in-laws turned her out of the house along with two HIV-postive sons, though they kept her eldest child, who had tested negative. The director of   supported her treatment and got her life back on track. She now works for the  . 
 
 “This medical problem gave me a mission of life,” Pooja said. “To make myself aware of the legal rights of HIV-postitive people, I resumed my education,” she said. She was a matriculate when she got married and completed her graduation after family disowned her. She plans to get a master’s degree in social work and keep working for the rights of HIV-positive people. During the 2010 IPL season, she was “toss ka boss” for a match.
 
 
