BENGALURU: In a little over two months,   has drawn flak for the second time from a city consumer court for shoddy service and shirking from responsibility. The e-commerce major was asked to refund the excess money it had collected from a customer.

 V  , 36, from Anekal taluk had approached the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Bengaluru Urban, alleging that he’d been made to pay Rs 1,878 extra when he purchased toys on the Flipkart app in December 2015.
 
 According to Narasimha, he ordered a ‘Lovely jumping dog’ and an ‘Annie stuff doll’, both together worth Rs 583. When the Flipkart delivery man arrived at his residence on December 8, 2015 with the products, he gave him his credit card. But the employee swiped the card twice, once for the correct amount and again for Rs 1,878 towards an unknown order. 
 
 When Narasimha objected to the swiping of the higher amount, the employee apologized and promised to refund the amount in seven days.
 
 After the wait for over a week proved futile, Narasimha contacted Flipkart’s customer helpline and was promised relief in a few days. When his further attempts went in vain, he approached the consumer forum on April 13, 2016.
 
 In its defence, Flipkart argued that its role in the trade was intermediary, providing an online platform for sellers and buyers. The firm compared itself to a shopping mall where shops are rented out but is not liable for products.
 
 The litigation lasted 22 months, at the end of which the judges criticized Flipkart for its response to customers. The sale transaction took place through the Flipkart app and therefore, the firm is as responsible as the seller in addressing the complainant’s grievance. The firm is liable for the act of its employees, including, in this case, the delivery person who collected excess money which amounts to deficiency of service and  , the judges said.
 
 In its verdict delivered on February 7, 2018, the court ordered Flipkart to refund Rs 1,878 to Narasimha in 30 days.
 
 Flipkart was not available for comment on the matter.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, the court had on November 22, 2017, held Flipkart guilty for not acknowledging the complaint of a Bengaluru customer, who purchased a faulty cellphone through its website. He received an invoice without the IMEI number. Flipkart was ordered to refund Rs 17,680 towards the handset.
 
 
