Gurgaon: Three incidents on Tuesday, on the back of several mishaps involving women in labour over the past few weeks, have brought   back in the news, and all for the wrong reasons. 

 In the first incident, a woman who had been admitted for the past two days, and had entered labour in the morning, gave birth inside a hospital restroom. 
 
 According to senior officials, Tuesday had been a busy day with eight back-to-back deliveries. Phulo Devi, the pregnant woman, asked permission from her attendants to go to the toilet, even as she had begun experiencing labour pain, but had only managed to reach its door when she delivered. Hospital authorities said both mother and child are keeping well. 
 
 In the recent past, there have been five other incidents when women have given birth under exceptional circumstances. On the night of April 27, a woman had given birth to a child inside an ambulance, with the help of the emergency technician, after she had gone to Civil Hospital but was referred to Safdarjung. While the child survived, the inability of the hospital to perform a C-Section at night was exposed.
 
 On April 25, a 29-year-old woman delivered in an ambulance inside hospital premises, again, after she was referred to Safdarjung, as she had a low haemoglobin count. Following the mishap, two doctors were suspended and the contract of a third terminated.
 
 In two other incidents on Tuesday, women delivered stillborns. The husband of Phulo Bai, one of the women, said he had brought his wife to the hospital at 8am from Mohammedpur, but doctors told him they wouldn’t be able to save the child. “We were told the child is dead and cannot be saved,” he added, casting aspersion on the quality of treatment offered.
 
 In a third incident, which took place in the evening, another patient, Gunjan from Kapashera, also delivered a stillborn, in a case of ‘breach’. According to senior doctors, when there is a breach, they advise C-Section, as there is a risk of the child getting suffocated. Nevertheless, the hospital staff tried a normal birth, sources confirmed.
 
 According to officials, with the suspensions and dismissal last week, staff at the gynaecology department has fallen drastically, especially of doctors who can perform surgeries.
 
 
