HYDERABAD: In the first ever relief to an accused in the   cases filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the disproportionate assets case pertaining to YSR Congress president Y S  , Justice   of the Hyderabad High Court on Thursday restrained the Special ED Court from framing charges against senior   officer   in the water allocation irregularities allegedly committed to benefit India Cements.

 The judge also dispensed with the legal requirement for the IAS officer to physically appear before the trial court for each adjournment.
 
 The judge gave relief to Das after hearing a plea urging court to quash the case against him. ED counsel P S P   said that Das, as principal secretary of irrigation department, played an instrumental role in ensuring increased water supply to India Cements from Krishna and Kagna rivers by suppressing similar pleas from other companies. 
 
 Appearing for the officer, senior counsel T Niranjan Reddy refuted the allegations and said the file was moved by the chief engineer and cleared by the minister and the cabinet. Das was only an intermediary and hence no criminal liability can be fastened to him. The prosecution's charge is that India Cements got undue benefit through water allocation and in lieu of it, the company made investment in  's companies, he said. "Das was not aware of these investments. Slapping money laundering charges is unfair, particularly when the investigators too could not show any proceeds of crime with him," Niranjan said. 
 
 ED's counsel refuted the argument saying that Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act fixes responsibility even on those who assist the main accused. Das effectively assisted the main accused, the counsel said. Asked by the bench as to what happens if the CBI court finally chooses to acquit India Cements, Suresh Kumar said the ED case is independent of CBI case. We rely on CBI only to the extent of registration of crime and subsequent proceedings under PMLA have their own course, which is tracking the proceeds of crime. Unlike CBI, which cannot go further without sanction from the authorities to prosecute the accused bureaucrats, ED does not require any such sanction from the authorities, the ED counsel said.
 
 
