Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court will hear on June 4 the a case that wanted the Tamil Nadu Olympic Association (TNOA) to conduct the 35th sub-junior and 45th junior state-level aquatic championship 2018 without intervention from the Tamil Nadu State Aquatic Association.  One R Sethuramalingam had filed the case which had come up for hearing recently before justice D Krishnakumar. The court directed the petitioner to give a representation to the TNOA afresh in that regard and also directed the TNOA to pass appropriate order, and listed the case for June 4 for report compliance.  On the day of hearing, the decision of the TNOA is likely to be informed to the court.  According to the petitioner, the TNOA is the competent authority to grant recognition to the association in the state which alone could hold the event and select the best performers besides nominating them for the the national-level meet. Accordingly, on November 17, 2017, it recognised the Tamil Nadu State Aquatic Association represented by S Thirumaran whose tenure is valid till November 16, 2020.  On May 8, Thirumaran issued a notification to hold the 35th sub-junior and 45th junior state level aquatic championship 2018 from May 30 to June 1.  Meanwhile, T Chandrasekeran, the former office-bearer of the aquatic association also issued a notification to hold the same event from June 1 to 3 at two different places, by claiming that he is the secretary of the association. The association represented by him (Chandrasekar) has been affiliated by the Swimming Federation of India and not by the TNOA.  For a single association, there are two different teams. The petitioner said that if his daughter S G Devi Maharasi, a gold medallist in swimming, takes part in any one of the events, she cannot participate in the other. Besides, there will also be a confusion as to which association will nominate successful candidates for the national-level meet. Due to it, her career is in jeopardy, the petitioner said.  Hence, it was necessary to restrain both Thirumaran and Chandrasekaran from conducting the event and to direct the TNOA and the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu to hold the event without the intervention of the duo, the petitioner wanted.  The counsel appearing for Thirumaran told the court that there was no objection to hold the event by the TNOA. 