KANPUR: A fire broke out in the Academic block of Hartcourt Butler Technological University ( ) on Thursday reducing several important documents to ashes. 

 The fire also destroyed records of BTech, MTech and PHd students including attendance documents, degrees. 
 
 Several files, two computers, two plastic coolers, chairs and table were also destroyed.
 
 The HBTU authorities claimed that the matter is serious and it would be looked from the angle of arson also as end-semester exams began on Thursday.
 
 However, the exam was successfully conducted on the first day.
 
 The admit card for the end-semester exams had been distributed till 10 pm on Wednesday. The distribution was done from the Dean Academic room. 
 
 The fire came to light when smoke was noticed in the Academic building. The security guards who noticed the smoke informed Prof Jitendra Kumar Dwivedi, security officer of the university. Also Dean Academic, Prof Anand Kumar, and other staff members were apprised about the incident. 
 
 University VC, Prof N B Singh also reached the spot and took stock of the situation. Sensing the gravity of the situation,   has set up a three-member probe committee to conduct inquiry into the matter.
 
 The probe committee comprises of Prof Sunil Kumar, Prof S U Siddiqui and Prof Alakh Kumar Singh. The committee has been asked to submit its report at the earliest. 
 
 When the fire was being doused, the university teachers noticed a window pane had been damaged and expectedly some burning stuff had been thrown inside the room, alleged a university teacher. 
 
 A fire was also reported from a house in Dhobi Mohal.
 
 The fire broke out due to short circuit.
 
 Locals informed that they heard a loud sound from a nearby house and soon huge flames were seen coming out from the house. 
 
 "The fire broke out due to short circuit in the house. As the house was situated in the narrow by-lane, fire tenders could not be reached inside. It took around one hour for us to douse the flames," said fire station officer, Latouche Road, Surendra Chaubey.
 
 
