Will you teach me to play the mridangam?’ asked a 10-year-old boy firmly to Mavelikkara Sankarankutty Nair. 

 Watching the curious eyes of the young Cherthala R Jayadevan, the maestro said, “Come to me with your father”, which the boy duly did. That was the beginning of a decade-long gurukul education, the one that laid the musical foundation for the recent Sangeet Natak Akademi Award winner and mrindangam exponent Jayadevan.
 Before training under Sankarankutty, he had learned tabla for four years, and even had his arangettam. But he little did he know that the percussion instrument would mean the life to him going forward. 
 
  “My dad worked in KSEB and we moved to Thiruvananthapuram during my school days. My sister’s Carnatic music guru Thankaraj urged me to pursue higher studies from Swathi Thirunal College, which was a major turning point in my life,” recalls the 53-year-old musician, who has been a professional for almost 35 years, with many awards, disciples and collaborations to his credit.
 
  Thankaraj was also the one who first trained him to play alongside musicians at concerts. His seven years at Swathi Thirunal, which earned him a Ganabhooshanam and Ganapraveena, turned out to be the perfect platform to hone his skills, he says. “I started off as a professional even before completing my first course; all thanks to the faculty there including Palakkad C S Krishnamoorthy, Parassala Ravi and Kadanad V K Gopi,” he says. 
 
  A conversation with Jayadevan is dotted with tales of his many gurus who have played major roles in his journey. “All of them guided me well at the right time, helping me to be the musician I am today. Their guidance also helped me do well in my own genre of mridangam, which follows the style of the thrimoorthis of the instrument - Pazhani Subhramaniam Pillai, Muruga Bhoopathi and Palghat Mani Iyer. My first guru Sankarankutty Nair was the disciple of Muruga Bhoopathi, an instrumentalist I greatly admire. Violinist B Sasikumar has also been an exceptional mentor.”
 
  Jayadevan has also explored avenues beyond purely pursuing mridangam, by collaborating with artistes such as Kalamandalam Hyderali, Kalamandalam Sankaran Embrathiri for Kathakali Padakacheri and also in various Carnatic-Hindustani jugalbandis. He has shared the stage with many veteran musicians, like the late Dr M Balamuralikrishna, M G Radhakrishnan, Dr K Omanakutty, Neyyattinkara Vasudevan, Bombay Sisters, Vayyankara Madhusoodhanan and Kavalam Sreekumar.
  As for his experiments, they aren’t confined to the stage. While serving as a faculty at the Kerala University music department, he started a unique project on teaching the rhythmic patterns of Carnatic music 10 years ago, which is still followed as part of the curriculum.
 
  “When the suggestion for an elective course came up, I felt putting together something like this will help them understand intricate thalas better. The faculty also strongly supported it especially the head of the department Pushpa,” recalls Jayadevan, who has performed in Paris, Singapore and Dubai.
 
  The Sangeet Natak Akademi award is just the latest honour on his shelf, which is also adorned by the Kanchi Kamakoti Peetham’s asthanavidwan title and the Ganashri Award.
  What’s his next aim? “I have a handful of disciples, and I am quite passionate about the cause of bringing another generation of instrumentalists, who take the art seriously,” he says.
  He also points out that compared to when he started out, there is a lot more of unhealthy competition now among musicians, which wouldn’t help in the long run. “I don’t believe in the practice of influencing programme organisers and grabbing a stage, rather than winning them by your merit. It clearly denies a platform for the deserving and robs their contribution to the art. As an artiste, I haven’t ever tried to win a stage through such tactics. I don’t ever want to either,” he asserts. 
 
  His wife Jyothilakshmi is also a music teacher and son Yadhu Krishnan is a BCom student, getting trained in violin. 
 
