MYSURU: Former MP   on Thursday charged chief minister   with failing to boost the economic condition of the backward classes in the state, and added that the JD(S) was holding a meet to deliberate on the issues ailing the   (OBCs) at the Kalinga Rao Mantapa at the Dasara Exhibition Grounds on Saturday.

 “Siddaramaiah rode to power on the Ahinda plank, but did absolutely nothing to imtprove the condition of OBC communities,” said Vishwanath.
 
 Crticising some of the flagship programmes undertaken by the Congress government in the state, Vishwanath said, “The sum of Rs 4,000 crore allocated for the various ‘Bhagya’s’ is a joke. The burget is nothing but a bundle of lies. How can a meager sum of Rs 4,000 crore be sufficient for so many government schemes?”
 
 Vishwanath said that the popularity of the many Bhagya schemes notwithstanding, thy had not succeeded in empowering OBC communities.
 
 Ridiculing the proposed scheme to establish public schools at the cost of Rs 5 lakh each, Vishwanath said, “You are a fool, Siddaramaiah. How can a public school be established with just Rs 5 lakh? It is impossible to establish 100 public schools with Rs 5 crore.”
 
 Vishwanath further alleged that Siddaramaiah was hoping to ride to power by spending money to buy votes as he did in the by-elections to Nanjangud and Gundlupet.
 
 Claiming that the law and order system in the state was in a shambles, he said, “There is absolutely no protection for OBCs in the state. The home minister has no value in Siddaramaiah’s cabinet.”
 
 Vishwanath added, “The CM is close to the affluent members of  . He has 5-start   as his close aides. Whether it is Kempaiah or Basavaraju. Siddaramaiah does not associate himself with poor Kurubas.”
 
 ‘PM Modi was right’
 
 Endorsing the observations made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the Congress government in the state being a ‘Commission Sarkar’, Vishwanath said, “The initial project cost of the Karwar Medical College was Rs 160 crore, but suddenly the cost was hiked by Rs 80 crore. The Congress government is a contract-oriented government. PM Modi was right in calling it a commission government.”
 
 
