Welcome news this week from the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, which announced it would revamp its history curriculum to include episodes from Goa’s own past. Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant, said the new topics could include the 18th century Pinto conspiracy and the historic 1967 Opinion Poll. “At present, only a small chapter exists on Goa’s history, freedom struggle and liberation. The new content will be more detailed, including the liberation of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, history of Goa’s freedom struggle, Operation Vijay, and the history of Goa attaining statehood,” he said.

 The board has established an academic committee to advise on this important task. Currently, there is a great deal about the tectonic processes that shaped north India, as well as the Mughals and the  , all leading up to the British Raj face-off against the Congress-led freedom struggle, thus begetting “freedom at midnight” in 1947. But very little of this is directly relevant to our tiny slice of the Konkan coastline’s very different experience of remaining open to world trade from times immemorial and then rising to international prominence as the first crucible of east-west globalization, before annexation to independent India via conquest in 1961.
 
 The alternate idea of India that emerges from the span of Goa’s history is of immense value not only for students here, but also for the world. The board’s new committee should consider beginning with the petroglyphs of Usgalimal/Pansaimal on the banks of the Kushavati river, a rich collection of laterite carvings that is one of the most important prehistoric sites on the subcontinent. 
 
 Fast-forward to just around 1,300 years ago. All Goan students would benefit greatly from learning about the Shilahara dynasty that extended its rule throughout the Konkan and much of Maharashtra during the Rashtrakuta period, which unified a swathe of territory from   all the way to Cape Comorin. It is pretty clear that the Shilaharas originated in Loutolim, and it’s also readily evident that soldiers and statesman from what is now Goa, predominated in the upper ranks of its administration that was ended only in the 13th century by the rising Chalukyas.
 
 It is in the period of the Rashtrakutas that a defining characteristic of Goa’s cultural and social identity comes sharply into focus. This is its essential nature as an entrepot a heavily trafficked centre for trade and cultural exchange, capable of accommodating diversity of all kinds. Writing about this curious aspect of Goan history, Goa University’s Nandkumar Kamat puts it most succinctly, “Nowhere else we find in India a model of governance created by the nexus between local Hindu kings and foreign Muslim traders. This happened in a century when crusades over possession of   were continuing and the idea of secularism was still centuries away.”
 
 Goa’s students are taught non-stop that their history is identical to the broad-stroke narratives painted from north of India’s experiences of invasion and conquest, exploitation, and endless episodes of blood-letting. But that’s not what happened here, where cosmopolitan rulers gave way to even more cosmopolitan rulers, all adding up to the wildly globalised present.
 
 The writer is a photographer and widely published columnist. Views expressed are personal.
 
 
