KOCHI: Though four institutions from Kerala have made it to the top 100 in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) list for the year 2018 the state’s achievement is low in terms of publications, research output and patents.

 NIRF report notes that the Indian share of overall world publications is about 4%. Of the 83,09,449 research publications in 2016-17, only 3,36,978 are from India. In the management discipline, the share is just 2%. In engineering it is 6% and pharmacy 5%. There are also institutes in India with nil publications. The situation is not very much different for institutions in Kerala too.
 
 
 “We need to focus on basic research, publications and subject expertise. Once a faculty leaves an institute here, the research work is closed and equipment lies idle. This needs to change,” said  , vicechancellor, Cochin University of Science and Technology.
 
 The biggest irony is that no medical and pharmacy college even come anywhere in the first 100 ranks. “The main problem with our medical colleges is that they are not fully residential. The doctors work from 8am to 1pm and later majority of them go for private practise. Also, most medical colleges are understaffed,” said Dr Fazal Gafoor, president, Kerala Private Medical College Management Association.
 
 Nearly 17 colleges from the state figure in the top 100 colleges in the country list, of which many are private aided autonomous institutions. Except for IIM-Kozhikode, no management institute from the state has made it to the top 100. In engineering, there are three institutes—Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, NIT-Calicut and College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 In the overall ranking,   maintained its 47th rank this year too, while Indian Institute of Science Education & Research, Thiruvananthapuram, slipped from 56 to 58. MG university is ranked 52 and Cochin University of Science and Technology 99. The only central university in state at Kasaragod doesn’t figure in the list.
 
 “I don’t take this kind of ranking seriously as there is no objectivity involved. I am certain that there are many institutions in state that should have been ranked much higher. The problem is that the Union government has decided to fund the institutions based on these rankings,” said Dr  , vice-chairman,  
 
