MUMBAI:   is how one of Maharashtra’s oldest and most iconic educational institutions will now be known. The Deccan Education Society’s   College, set up in Pune in 1885 by stalwarts such as   and Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, will be converted into a state university. 

 The Government Science College and St Joseph’s College, both autonomous institutes from Bengaluru, will also be upgraded as universities. Each institute will receive a grant of Rs 55 crore under the Centre’s Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyaan (RUSA), it was announced on Friday. Two colleges from Mumbai, St Xavier’s and Mithibai, which had also applied for the university tag, have been kept in waiting. “Each of these institutions will receive Rs 55 crore subject to their states enacting a State Public University Act in three months and submitting an action plan for the institutions. If the same is not executed, institutes on the waiting list will be considered,” said B Venkatesh Kumar, national co-ordinator of RUSA, which is implemented by the HRD ministry. 
 
  
  
 These will be unitary universities, which will not have any colleges affiliated to them. Fergusson’s principal Ravindra Singh Pardeshi said, “We want to upgrade our departments to schools, make our research stronger and build better labs.” Interestingly, Fergusson, when founded, was affiliated to the erstwhile University of Bombay. It started arts classes and later offered the science stream. The college held these classes, for almost ten years, in the old Gadre Wada and other locations in Pune. Founders Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, Tilak, Agarkar, Mahadev Ballal Namjoshi and Vaman Shivram Apte taught in these classrooms. 
 
 Principal William Wordsworth, FG Selby, Lord Rippon, Sir William Wedderburn and Sir James Fergusson were among the ones who headed the Gothicstyled basalt stone campus. But over time, academic torpor set in, said experts, and though Pune University – to which Fergusson got affiliated in the 1940s – saw its reach exp and to many educationally under- served areas, it saw little academic renewal. With a student population today of over 6,000 and about 200 teachers, Fergusson College has for long wanted to break free from its mother university, now called the Savitribai Phule Pune University. 
 
 Fergusson applied for autonomy in 2006 and got it in 2016. Government Science College, Bengaluru, got autonomy in 2015. “As a university we want to strengthen our post-graduate courses and enhance our research capabilities,” said Natraja, its principal. “The Challenge Level Funding under RUSA 2.0 has focused on enhancing quality, improving access and equity. It has been a game-changer for state universities that are often starved of funds and attention,” Kumar said.
