VIJAYAWADA: Ahead of summer, the   (VMC) has decided to draw up an action plan to overcome drinking water problem in the city. Groundwater levels on the city outskirts have come down drastically and the officials are making alternative arrangements to tide over the problem.

 VMC, which is drawing 180 Million Gallons Per Day (MGLD) of water to be supplied in the city, is seized of the matter, considering the fall in water levels at  .
 
 The irrigation officials say that the reservoir at Prakasam Barrage has received poor inflows due to scanty rainfall and stoppage of water from the Pattiseema lift irrigation scheme (PLIS). Water level at Prakasam Barrage has fallen to about 10 feet and the dead storage level stand is 8 feet. Gross storage levels of Prakasam barrage is 3 TMC and water level as on Saturday evening is slightly over 2 TMC.
 
 More than 350 MGLD of water is expected to be drawn for drinking water needs for both Guntur and Vijayawada in summer, which further shows its impact on the water level.
 
 Water supply in Ajit Singh Nagar, Kandrika, Rajiv Nagar and other parts would be affected in summer and the officials are supplying water through tankers. Ch Hemalatha, a homemaker from Kandrika in the city, says, “It has become common for us to wait in long queues near water tankers to get drinking water in summer. VMC, which is collecting huge amounts in the form of water tax, should take steps to supply adequate water,” she added.
 
 Representatives of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the civic body are busy fighting for mayor post and have no time to focus on problems faced by denizens, said the CPI capital region secretary Ch Babu Rao. The officials, who have called tenders for collecting taxes on mangoes, has no time to restore borewells in the city, he added.
 
 The civic body, which supplied purified water by arranging special points across the city in summer, is proposing to continue the same this year too. “The demand for water will automatically increase in summer with the increase in temperatures and we are restoring 43 old power borewells. We have arranged water tankers in every division and will soon call tenders for this,” says VMC chief engineer Adiseshu.
 
