In an admission that it has been unfair to its passengers at times, India's biggest passenger airline   has asked its crew to tone down and de-escalate unruly matters during its   operations.

 “In such situations, the first action is to defuse the situation - by all possible means. Each one of you is empowered and trained to de-escalate the situation,” IndiGo’s fleet supervisor Karuna Singh wrote in an internal email on Sunday which was reviewed by ET Prime. “Seeking apology letter is indeed not a step, either toward de-escalation or towards finding a solution to the situation at hand; and is most certainly not in any regulation, policy or law.” 
 
 Last month, Saurabh Rai, a cardiologist, had raised the issue of mosquitoes in an IndiGo aircraft, a video of which went viral. There was no remedy offered to him, he had said. Instead he was caught by his collar and removed from the flight, and was asked to tender an apology by the airline crew. He was also forced to delete all the photographs from his phone taken inside the aircraft.
 
 Singh told the airline crew that they need to “defuse issues that may arise out of” a raised voice, or aggressive physical postures – physical contact, display of dissatisfaction towards services provided, or use of abusive words.
 
 The above behaviours can be displayed during scenarios such asdelayed departures, unfulfilled service delivery – like unavailability of preferred seat or meal - consumption of alcohol, demand for self-offloading, customer’s personal issue.
 
 “We, as aviation personnel, must be able to isolate actual unruly behaviour and take adequate actions as prescribed,” Singh said, adding, “If a customer changes his behaviour during the de-escalation phase and starts complying with the requirements, then the matter ends there itself.”
 
 Only when the passenger breaches laid-down conditions of unruly behavior in the airline’s manuals should they be handed over to the local security agencies for action with appropriate documentation; else, they should be allowed to continue the journey, Singh told employees.
 
 He also asked that “if at any stage you do not agree with your colleague’s actions of deeming a passenger unruly, please do escalate the concern,” signing off the letter with a reminder for safe skies and “big smiles!”
 
 ET Prime first reported on May 7 that the airline has decided to introduce electronic bats on its planes to control the growing menace of mosquitoes.
 
 Civil aviation minister  , who took charge in March, had tweeted about the Rai incident and launched a probe. But to be sure, that was not the only incident that had made IndiGo look bad in the past few months.
 
 Last November, another video showing IndiGo airlines ground staff manhandling and pinning down a passenger on the tarmac at Delhi’s   had gone viral on social media and made its way to prime-time television debates.
 
 IndiGo comments were awaited.
 
