TRICHY: The four boys who were arrested on Friday after being named by their classmate as the bullies who were behind his decision to end his life are likely to face tough times. The Class 10 students were sent to the government observation home in the city and may face charges of abetting the suicide of R  , 15.

 Ranjith’s suicide by hanging at his house in   near   was the second such incident in   after two Class 10 girls of a government school in Vaiyampatti committed suicide by jumping in front of a train at Vaiyampatti in August 2017. Like Ranjith’s suicide note blaming the taunts of his four classmates, the two girls also had named two boys and a girl for indulging in character assassination. 
 
 The boys would languish in the home at least for a week until they got a bail. The government observation home in Trichy city usually receives minor boys and girls involved in petty and also heinous crimes. Hence the four boys would also get close to such juveniles in conflict with law during their stay. 
 
 The consequences would be serious for such minors as the educational institution may avoid re-admitting the students in their school. 
 
 It happened to the two boys and girl in the first case who were forced to take their exams as private students. In Ranjith’s case, the four boys allegedly bullied him by commenting that he had a feminine look. 
 
 “In the case of the two girls, the three boys and the girls had allegedly talked ill of the girls publicly over a love affair. Unable to bear the mental agony, they committed suicide. The three were kept in the government observation home and released a few months ago,” said a member of the   Justice Board, Trichy, M Padmavathy on Saturday. 
 
 She said, “Preliminary reports say that the four boys allegedly bullied Ranjith saying that he is becoming a transgender. It is not sure whether he really had any biological change. If the third gender is given proper respect in the society, there would be no reason for feeling insulted by such taunts and taking extreme steps,” she said.
 
 
