Mysuru: Expressing her wish to see Mysuru reclaim the numero uno position in the ‘Clean Cities’ ranking, member of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family  , who is the ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, said that she is willing to do her part to realise her desire. After bagging the first position twice in a row, Mysuru had to settle for the fifth position in 2017. The district administration, along with the civic bodies of the city, has been pulling all stops to reclaim the top spot this year.

 While there were 434 cities in the fray last year, the number has gone up in 2017, and   ( ) appears to be prepared to handle the competition. PramodaDevi participated in a cleanliness drive organised by the district administration and an NGO ‘Let’s Do it Mysore’, at the Mysuru Palace premises.
 
 “After being crowned the Cleanest City twice in a row, we slipped to fifth place. This year, we should go all out to keep the city clean, and see to it that Mysuru reclaims the tag. In this regard, the district administration, and various citizen groups are doing a lot. The residents should also help the authorities by segregating waste at their home. I am willing to lend my support to help Mysuru get the top spot back,” said Pramoda Devi.
 
 Welcoming the Open Street Fest held on D Devaraja Urs Road, she said, “Instead of projecting just Dasara, we now have four different events spread across four different seasons that can really boost tourism.”
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep said that the district administration had been conducting Swachhta drives for the past one month through the Shramdan initiatives. “It’s possible to keep the city clean only with cooperation from the residents. I have already issued a directive to all government departments to conduct cleanliness drive once a month,” said Randeep, adding that cleanliness drives were carried out in the city at the taluk office and Andolana Circle. “The Swachhta team will be visiting Mysuru after January 4,” he said.
 
 Pointing out that over 4,000 cities would be vying for the top spot this year, Randeep added, “As many as eight bodies from Mysuru district including that from T Narasipur, HD Kote will be in the fray. Although our aim is to reclaim the top spot, considering the number of cities in the competing, if we retain the fifth spot, that too will be an achievement.”
 
 Addressing the pressing problem of waste processing in Mysuru, the DC said that seven zero waste treatment plants would be activated next week. “Each plant will be linked to six to eight wards and only excess garbage will be sent to the landfill. Waste at these plants will later be segregated into liquid and non-liquid trash,” Randeep said.
 
 Given the number of visitors that Mysuru Palace receives on public holidays and during weekends, it was suggested that having a solid waste management plant within the premises, with around 15 to 20 personnel to handle it, would be a feasible solution. Randeep, meanwhile, directed the deputy director of the Palace Board to clear scraps littered around the corners of the palace.
 
 
