AHMEDABAD: With mercury hovering around 40°C mark, several birds often get dehydrated in absence of water and injure themselves. In a bid to save and rescue the winged-friends and help them recover, city-based   (JCT) has been collecting old and worn out socks from citizens to cover the birds, and giving away complimentary  , which must be filled with fresh water, a pinch of sugar and salt and kept outside our homes.

 
 Explaining the rationale behind this, Gira Shah, trustee, JCT, said, “Dehydration is extremely common among birds especially when the green cover is shrinking. Many of them fall even while they’re flying and get themselves injured. Birds often panic seeing their own wounds and die of cardiac arrest. Therefore, we use   to cover their faces during treatment.”
 
 Using an old sock is important as its elastic has loosened, allowing the bird to breathe while covered. A new sock won’t serve the purpose, she added.
 
 Many donors have been regularly donating socks as well as towels to JCT. “Women members of the residential society I stay at, collect socks and old towels on a monthly basis and donate it at Jivdaya. We’re able to collect at least 25-30 pairs which amounts to some 50 socks which can be used for the birds,” said Priyanka Gadhvi, a resident of Shilaj.
 
 “I’ve kept cartons at my house where friends, neighbours and acquaintances come and drop their old socks, which I later donate to the organization. This way, I can contribute in my own way to the cause,” said Jolly Patel, another donor and a trustee of the organization.
 
 Side by side, the volunteers also distribute water pots for free as part of their weekly campaign. “It is time we do our bit for the birds. Thus, we distribute water pots during our weekly campaign usually conducted on Sundays. We also educate people to put a pinch of oral rehydration solution (ORS) or a pinch of salt and sugar each in the water bowl so that sodium-potassium balance is maintained,” said Pratiti Desai, a student of GNLU who volunteers with JCT.
 
 
