CHENNAI: Driven by business opportunities and expansion plans, startups are ramping up their workforce. e-learning company Simplilearn which was at 550 people at the beginning of this calendar year will be at 700 by June 2018.

 “The re-skilling business is growing. We are hiring on the product side, customer support, sales and marketing,” said Krishna Kumar founder and CEO. The company typically adds 50-75 people in a year but this year, Kumar says they will be adding at least 200 people of which 150 have already been hired. Simplilearn’s Raleigh office has seen its headcount more than double from 8 to 18-20 people now. The company has also taken the campus route this year for the first time.
 
 Tapping into the fresher talent in colleges like Christ University and NITs, Kumar expects freshers to constitute at least 20% of his total workforce.
 
 Fintech startup Razorpay is looking to double their total workforce from 170 to 350 by the end of the year. Last year, their total headcount grew by close to 50-55%. The company is looking to set up offices in Chennai and Hyderabad and is already in the process of closing positions. Hiring is happening across all levels at these startups from leadership levels to freshers.
 
 For food ordering and delivery startup Swiggy, it’s been a big year. The company raised $100 million in February this year and has been growing over the past several months. Girish Menon- VP, HR, Swiggy said,” Our employee count increased by almost 125% in the last 12 months, with a 2X increase in tech talent alone. We also had many leadership hires in the last 6-9 months including our first CFO and the CEO and COO for our New Supply Business line.” With growth in order volumes, Swiggy has seen a 100% jump in delivery partners. The company has also ramped up the number of fleet managers as they help manage, train, guide and provide support to delivery partners.
 
  The adoption of digital across India has triggered interest in other parts of the globe and fintech companies are seeing such opportunities stream in. Bengaluru based i-exceed technology, which closed the financial year with close to 250 employees has already onboarded 25 people. The company intends to increase this number by another 50%. Vijay Krishnan - general manager, people management, i-exceed technology solutions said,”Opportunities are opening up for us. We are looking to increase our overall turnover by 40% this year. We will need talent to support this growth and will look at hiring across levels with a major chunk towards technology.”
 
 Zapr Media Labs, which is at over 100 employees now is looking to add 40-50 people over the next 6 months. “We need to grow on the bank of partnerships with brands, agencies etc. Our client base has grown so has our own presence in the market. We are focussing on multiple areas for talent from engineering roles like data analytics, audio processing to non-engineering roles too,” said Sandipan Mondal, cofounder and CEO, Zapr.
 
 
