NEW DELHI: Anxiety ran high among students of classes X and XII as they waited for over an hour to get their question papers on Monday. 

 After the exams, which started at 10.30am, the students exclaimed that the paper wasn’t very big.   students had their Sanskrit/ French exam, while for   students it was Hindi. 
 
 Meanwhile, the centre representatives said they were made to wait for hours in the banks to get the question papers. However,   claimed that the paper was delayed at few centres by a few minutes or half-an-hour. “At some centres in the country, the exam was delayed due to the bandh. However, the students were facilitated to reach the exam centres and also given additional time to complete the exam without any inconvenience or anxiety,” said the board’s statement. 
 
 The teachers reached the bank before time and were handed papers only around 10am, a private school principal said. The paper was finally given to students after 11.30am, in some schools, more than hour late. 
 
 In fact, one principal said her teachers received two set of papers for the Hindi exam — one was given at the bank, the other after the officials arrived. “The paper was freshly printed; the envelope was still damp with ink. We were asked to distribute that fresh paper to the students,” the principal said. The delay, she believed was a part of an exercise to maintain secrecy and ensure the system remained leakproof. However, in that effort, the system took off sluggishly. 
 
 Students entered their exam halls at 10am, and had to wait for nearly an hour before getting the question papers. Principals said they had to make several rounds of the exam halls to keep the children calm. But outside, the delay was daunting on parents as well.
 
 “Some parents thought the exam has leaked again. They were getting angry, but got to know after a while that the paper came late,” said a teacher.
 
 Narender, a local guardian seemed on the edge. “My nieces have been in the exam hall for over an hour after the exam was to get over. The school delayed the paper,” he alleged, but he was informed about the reason for the delay later. 
 
 Principals said though late, the paper went on smoothly. On Thursday, schools had been asked to carry out a drill during which an encrypted paper had to be downloaded and printed by the school. On Saturday, the schools were sent guidelines on how to print the papers, in preparation for the Monday exam. The schools were also asked to send back a compliance report to CBSE on how many printers they have and if they have access to the internet and a secure connection. Many principals complained that such tests and trials put the schools and centres under stress, and should be carried out months before the actual exam.
 
 However, between Saturday and Sunday, centre superintendents were called by board officials telling them that they would have to return to the earlier process of paper collection, and send teachers to the bank 15 minutes in advance. 
 
 
