With a presence in 70 countries, one million members, and an annual budget of $700 million,   is one of the world’s biggest environmental groups. Set up in 1951, the group also represents the pragmatic wing of the  : Where groups like Greenpeace confront corporates and governments on environmental misdeeds, The Nature Conservancy (TNC) opts to work with business and state on conservation. This approach has its critics especially when donors have been oil and gas giants. But the group has also had much success, including helping to conserve an estimated 103 million acres globally and innovations like a recent debt-for-nature deal in which the group bought $20 million of   in return for the creation of a large  . The group set up shop in India two years ago with DSP’s Hemendra Kothari as chair. TOI spoke to TNC president and CEO Mark Tercek and others in Mumbai

 On working in India
 
 The group has come to India at a time when many NGOs, including Greenpeace, have had their foreign funding permits cancelled. “Because we are a science-based NGO, and the India-US relationship has always been strong, we felt confident,” says India managing director Seema Paul. Kothari adds, “Our aim is to work with governments, we are not an activist group.” The India office is working with research institutes on projects as diverse as crop burning, wetland restoration and smart cities (see box).
 
 On being “pragmatic environmentalists” 
 
 “The world is a crowded place and progress requires some compromise,” says Tercek, a former managing director of Goldman Sachs. While activist groups like Greenpeace play an important role in identifying and campaigning against bad actors, “that’s not what we do”, says Tercek. “We try to bring people together, to make environmental progress that also works for people and makes economic sense.” Still, critics should be purists and keep the group on its toes, he adds. The group won’t work with just any company. “We have to be satisfied there are no environmental misdeeds underway, that their commitment is sincere, and there is complete transparency. We also have the right to withdraw if conditions are not met.”
 
 On the importance of innovation and science
 
 In Cancun, Mexico, the group orchestrated a deal with global insurer Swiss Re to protect the local coral reef that acts like a seawall. When there’s a storm, there is immediate insurance payout and the funds go to restore the reef. The policyholders are the shoreline businesses. “That’s an example of a creative way to pay for nature at scale,” says Tercek. But the scientific evidence for such measures have to be solid and precise, he notes. The group, which has hundreds of staff scientists, also partners with universities to document and monitor its projects. “There’s a huge gap between the folks that put together environmental information primarily in academia and the actual decision-makers, and that chasm is particularly large in India,” says the group’s lead scientist Joseph Kiesecker.
 
 On moving towards green investment 
 
 “We will always need donor capital, but like business, can we lever that capital by borrowing from investors?” asks Tercek. In the US, the group bought a large swathe of land for $160 millon, which was largely raised from debt. “We did a kind of leveraged buyout for nature.” An estimated $6-7 trillion is needed annually to meet sustainable development goals, he adds. “Government aid and philanthropy is less than one trillion, somehow private capital has to be mobilized.”
 
 On environmental policy in the US and China 
 
 In the US, “we pride ourselves on being able to work with both sides of the partisan divide,” says Tercek. “But we’ve been discouraged by [Trump] decisions like dropping out of the Paris climate accord, pulling back environmental regulations, and by the threat to reduce the science budgets.” However, the story is more encouraging at other levels of government—state and city—and other actors, he adds. In China, where the group is helping develop solutions for stormwater drainage in paved-up cities, there has been a sea-change in environmental policy, thanks to the Beijing pollution crisis. “Everyone in China now understands that future success is based on addressing environmental challenges,” says Tercek. China also believes in science-based long-term planning and has leaders who have trained in science, he adds. “It is an encouraging example, but we’ll see.”
 
 
