MUMBAI: Around 1,600 first-year students pursuing ayurveda,  ,  , nursing and other allied health sciences’ courses from government and private colleges in the state are slated to lose six months of their   as they are not eligible for summer exams for admissions taken after October 31. Students, though, claimed they are not at fault for   admissions.

 Exams for Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery (BHMS), Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT), Bachelor of Audiology and Speech Language Pathology (BASLP) and such other courses are conducted by the Maharashtra University of   (MUHS). One of MUHS Act’s provisions allows only students who have taken   till October 31 to appear for term-end exams in summer. Students must complete a minimum 240 days in the term, said an MUHS official. 
 
 Last year, several students were admitted beyond the cut-off date of October 31 as admissions were delayed. A parent of a student pursuing BASLP from Ali Yavar Jung National Institute of Speech and Hearing Disabilities said they have already met all concerned officials for relief. “Admissions in the institutional round ended on November 15 last year. Admissions are conducted by Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). If such law exists, how did DMER allow admissions till November 15? We weren’t told about it during admission,” said a parent.
 
 Another said, “If they are not eligible for summer exams, they will have to appear in October. Their course gets extended by six months. Will the institute conduct lectures for a handful of students? If nothing works, we will have to seek a legal recourse.”
 
 DMER director Pravin Shingare said students were told of the term requirement during admissions. "Deciding the academic term comes under the university's purview and DMER cannot provide relief in the matter," said Shingare.An MUHS official said, “Several requests have come to us to relax the condition but we have to abide by the law.”
 
 
