Once upon a time, when people depended only on newspapers and All India Radio for their daily dose of news, the day for a typical DMK party cadre started with a cup of tea at the corner shop and a copy of  , the party mouthpiece. He sipped on the tea, gulped down whatever DMK president M Karunanidhi had written in the paper, and regurgitated it all to people around him.

 Twenty-four-hour news channels and social media today bring you all news in an instant, but party newspapers continue to live an eventful life, delivering the leaders’ messages and pouring scorn on the rivals. The Saturday launch of  , the latest entrant in the genre, shows how political parties consider   as integral tools.
 
 "When the opposition parties use their newspapers to attack the government and the ruling party, we need to not only respond to such mischief, but also to highlight the performances of our government and the policies of our party," says Marudhu Alaguraj, editor of the newly-launched party organ.
 
 What he doesn’t say is that party newspapers have confined themselves to this defence-offence strategy, without trying to take mainstream new to its readers—something which party mouthpieces in the neighbouring Kerala does with elan.
 
 Though coloured by the Reds, the CPM’s Malayalam mouthpiece Deshabimani covers a variety of subjects including sports, science and business. In some places, it competes with such mainstream papers like Malayala Manorama and Mathruboomi. The CPI’s Janayugam may not match Deshabhimani in terms of reach, but the paper is considered a serious read for those seeking a global perspective on political developments.
 
 The Congress’s Veekshanam, the BJP’s Jhanmabhumi and the Indian Union Muslim League’s Chandrika also make efforts to go beyond political slogans, at least once a while. "Some of these, if not all, are run by professionals, and compete well in terms of general news coverage including global developments," says a veteran journalist in Thiruvananthapuram. "We do highlight the CPM’s policies, but we have a professional approach when it comes to news," says P M Manoj, resident editor of Deshabhimani.
 
 Tamil writer and journalist Sudhangan says party newspapers in   cannot be compared to the ones in Kerala, which has a history of high literacy. "They are in a different league. Here, while the ruling AIADMK has launched a new paper, I seriously doubt how many people in this state really read party papers nowadays. Generally, while Kerala continues to celebrate its literatures and writers, reading habit in Tamil Nadu is going down," points out Sudhangan.
 
 S M Balasubramaniam, a veteran journalist associated with TN CPM’s   agrees. "While Kerala has a history of social reform movements that led to political changes, Tamil Nadu has a history of opting for traditional politics. Karunanidhi, MGR and Jayalalithaa were all symbols of that kind of politics," he says.
 
 It is an irony that the EPS-OPS faction had to launch a newspaper in the name of Jayalalithaa to counter a paper that was launched by her. Jayalalithaa launched Namadhu MGR in 1988 to counter Murasoli. Now, with Namadhu MGR in the hands of rebel leader and V K Sasikala’s nephew T T V Dhinakaran, the ruling party had to launch its own paper.
 
 Though Murasoli claims a 75-year history — that it was launched by an 18-year-old — it became a daily only in 1960 to primarily counter political opinions and highlight the Dravidian ideology which mainstream papers did not highlight the way the Dravidian leaders wanted.
 
 K Sethu, editor-in-charge of Murasoli is candid: "It is our official platform and a tool to reach out to our party cadres. It is also used to highlight speeches and activities of our second-rung leaders who otherwise find it difficult to get space in general and popular dailies. While in opposition, we highlight anti-government issues and when the party is in power, we highlight achievements of the government," he says.
 
 He says he is aware that the party cadres today have many sources of information. "Nowadays we also focus on important news developments of the day, both within the country and around the world," he says.
 
 Balasubramaniam says Theekkathir has moved away from the old pattern of highlighting only party news, to include news of all kinds. "Still, ours is a silent circulation and based only on subscription, with very little by way of news stall sales," he says.
 
 
