NAGPUR: A mechanical engineering student was on Saturday asked to go back home, around 15km away, and bring hall ticket after he forgot to carry it to his exam centre.

 His exam centre was Jhulelal Institute of Technology (JIT), located on the outskirts at Lonara.
 
 Around half an hour before the paper, the centre officials were taken aback when the student asked them to give instructions in writing besides extra time in case he returned late. As per norms, a student is allowed to enter the exam hall up to 30 minutes from the start of the paper.
 
 The student said he was finally allowed to enter the exam hall after the officials spoke to his father, who assured that his son would carry the hall ticket during the next paper. 
 
 A day before, the exam officials had sent back a couple students who had turned up without hall tickets, the student said.
 
 A couple of students approached TOI complaining that JIT officials have been unfair towards them, though it was not their first paper.
 
 “Our summer exams started from April 28 and the officials must have got acquainted with our faces. It just happened that some of us forgot our hall tickets at home. Since this is a far-off centre, it is not possible to return home just for collecting hall ticket even if you realized on the way,” one of the students said.
 
 JIT officials didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 As per   (NU) exam guidelines, the exam officials can’t refuse permission to students to appear in exam if an examinee fails to carry hall tickets. Recently, NU had also permitted   students to appear in the exam though they had not submitted their exam forms.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is in-charge of the exam section, didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 Neeraj Khaty, director of Board of Examinations and Evaluation, said such students can be allowed to appear in the exam provided they give an undertaking. He added that no such complaint was received by the exam section.
 
 When asked, a couple of exam officials from different colleges said such issues have been cropping up for the last three years as external and internal officers are not aware of the guidelines. “This time too, the exam officials were not given training about exam duties. Only the internal officers were called and explained silly things like how to log in, download question paper and photocopy them,” they said.
 
 
