Dressed impeccably in a white spaghetti strap dress, it is refreshing to see   aka Chakor step out in style at the success party of the show 'Udann', which completed 1000 episodes recently. 

 The actress, who’s become a household name as Chakor, is a far cry from her demure screen image, where she is only seen in salwar kameez and saris on her show. “Honestly, this is the first time I am wearing something so different. I am trying to break the image that people have of me,” she says candidly. 
 
 Ask Meera what kept her away from exploring glamour earlier, she says, “I am a simple girl at heart, so I never understood this part about dressing up for red carpet events or parties. Secondly, I hardly attend any parties. In fact, this is the second event I am attending this year. The third party will be my birthday or the channel’s award function, which sums up my list of parties for the year. So, I have never felt the need to glam up like a doll for an event. I understand that actresses need to look different, but shooting kept me so busy that I could never break that image.” She adds that there is little that can be done in the way she appears on the show as Chakor is a small-town girl, so there’s little scope for experimenting with clothes.
 
 While talking about the show reaching the 1000-episode mark, the actress says she’s yet to experience any kind of fatigue playing the same character for two years. “Playing Chakor has made me a much better actress,” she says. “From joining the show as a non-performer, I learnt about so many things while doing Udann. Chakor’s constant struggle to save her village, the fight with  , the chemistry between the lead actors, rivalry with   — there was a lot to explore on the show. So even after two years, I have not reached a saturation point where I feel exhausted about the playing the same character. I can keep doing Udann for another few years. Having said that I must add that I don’t make any long term plans.”
 
 Meera’s face lights up when the topic veers to her co-stars. Referring to her rumoured romance with co-actor   and rivalry with Vidhi Pandya which seems to be an extension of their equation on screen, she says, “Oh ho bade rumours udey the mere aur   ke. I won’t deny that he is a good friend. All that chemistry on screen is because of the bond we share in real life. There is nothing more than friendship here. In fact, my chemistry with my other co-actor Vijayendra Kumeria is equally good; he has taught me many things about acting.” She adds, “As for Vidhi and me, we are cordial with each other. We may not be the best of friends, but there is nothing unpleasant about our association.”
 
 Unlike her contemporaries, Meera has no qualms to admit that she watches other shows on TV. She rattles out on all the things she likes about other shows, “I love the way Ishqbaaaz actors look on screen. They are so glamorous, wish we could dress like that. I also like Ye Hai Mohabbatein; it still has a freshness about it after being on air for so many years. Dil Se Dil Tak and   are also shows with good content.” 
 
 The actress, who hails from Baroda, considers herself settled in the big city of Mumbai, but with no personal life. “We are shooting and living the show the whole year, so where is the time to party or even, exercise? My mother jokes about how I come home to only sleep. If I ask her about going out somewhere, she says, ‘Pehle ghar aa ja’. I wish there was more time to myself,” says Meera with a grin.
 
