CHENNAI: Appalled that students from   who appear for National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test 2018 were allotted exam centres in Rajasthan and Kerala, the Madras high court on Friday directed the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to immediately recall the allotments and provide alternate centres in the same area of students or at least within the state. 

 The board has scheduled the examination for admission to MBBS and   courses, on May 6.
 
 A division bench of Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and Justice M Dhandapani passed the order on a PIL by advocate S Kalimuthu Mylavan.
 
 The petitioner said CBSE had assigned centres in Ernakulam, Kerala and in Rajasthan to candidates from the southern districts of Tamil Nadu - Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Nagercoil and Trichy - though they had, like candidates from across the country, indicated three centres of their choice within their state in their NEET applications. Alleging that the allotments of centres contradicted instructions in the CBSE-issued NEET information bulletin, he said many   are from poor families in rural areas and may not be able to afford to travel to and stay in states in which the board expects them to take the test.
 
 He asked the court to quash a public notice CBSE issued on April 18 to allot the test centres and direct the board to allot the centres afresh based on the location of the candidates. 
 
 
 
 
 When the plea came up for hearing,thebench concurred with the submission of the petitioner and said, due to “irrational allotments” of the kind, students face to prospect of having to travel long distances and the financial implications involved.
 
 It appears that many candidates are from rural areas and cannot afford to pay for their travel and accommodation, the bench said.
 
 “Further, as the counsel for petitioner rightly pointed out, the safety of the children is the most important aspect,” the court said. It directed CBSE to recall the allotments, particularly of centres in places outside the students’ home states and allot to them, at the earliest, centres near their place of residence or, at least, in Tamil Nadu.
 
 The court directed CBSE to intimate candidates about the revised allotments by publishing the details on the board’s website or in newspapers. Candidates who been allotted centres in other states can apply again to be allotted local NEET exam centres, the court said. CBSE increased the number of cities in which candidates can take NEET to 150 in 2018 from 84 in 2017.
 
 
 
