THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has denied the existence of a draft report prepared by a four-member committee, which contained recommendations for regularising unauthorised constructions in the state.

 In a reply to an   application filed by TOI,   has replied that the committee did not submit a report on regularisation of unauthorised constructions in the state.
 
 
 The   (Regularisation of Unauthorised Construction) Rules, 2018 and the   (Regularisation of Unauthorised Construction) Rules, 2018 came into effect in the state on Wednesday. The new rules framed by the state government superseded the rules formed during the UDF regime in 2014 and the compounding fees mandated in new rules show a steep drop when compared to those framed in 2014. It is learnt that the three members of the committee had recommended huge compounding fees and had determined the amount as a penalty for not following building rules. The compounding fees mandated in regularisation rules 2014 were almost retained the same way by the four-member committee. The government has slashed the compounding fee in the new rules.
 
 The state government had formed a four-member committee to submit recommendations for regularisation of unauthorised constructions in the state based on an order dated 24-2-17. The committee comprised local self-government department   as the convenor, among others.
 
 The committee was directed to prepare a draft for a directive to be followed in regularisation of unauthorised constructions in the state. While the government denied the committee having submitted a report, three members of the committee including the convenor, TOI spoke to contradicted RTI reply.
 
 “The report was submitted after a series of sittings. LSGD special secretary had also submitted another set of recommendations,” a committee member said. Three other members also reiterated that the report was submitted.
 
 Former special secretary, LSGD, V K Baby (retired) had also furnished a set of recommendations along with the report which according to committee members had called for measures against unauthorised constructions.
 
 “The report was submitted, however it is the prerogative of the government whether to follow it or not,” said V K Baby. As per the 2014 rules, the basic compounding fee for single residential buildings was 10 times the permit fee and 1/20th of the fair value of land per square metre of the land multiplied by the total floor area of unauthorised construction. For residential buildings up to 300 square metre, the fee was 50% of the permit fee. The new rules have categorised unauthorised constructions and for single family residential buildings between 60 square metre and 300 square metre, the compounding fee varies between Rs 3,000 and Rs 30,000.
 
 The basic compounding fee for other buildings as per new rules is ten times the permit fee and 1/40th of fair value of land per square metre of the land multiplied by the total floor area of the unauthorised construction.
 
 This was calculated as 20 times of the permit fee and 1/20th of the fair value of land per square metre of the land multiplied by the total floor area of the construction as per 2014 rules. The compounding fee for deficient car parking was fixed as Rs 5 lakh per deficient car parking earlier which has again been categorised on the basis of whether 50%, 25% of specified parking space is available. Rs 5 lakh deficient car parking fee has been reduced to Rs 3 lakh in corporation areas.
 
