PATNA: Academic activities up to Class VIII in all private and government schools across the district will be conducted between 6.45am and 11.45am from Monday, Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi issued an order in this regard on Sunday. The decision has been taken owing to heatwave conditions in the district.

 Most of the city schools would be closing for summer vacations from the second or third week of May. The district administration also does not appear in a hurry on this front. Ravi claimed the weather conditions this year are still better than previous year and early vacations would only hamper the academic activities of the schools. The DM, however, said, “We are closely monitoring the rising temperatures and will take necessary steps by tweaking school timings. All the schools are directed to follow the new   from May 7 and district education officer is asked to ensure compliance of the order.”
 
 St Michael’s High School principal Fr Armstrong Edison SJ said the school would adjust the timetable of classes up to VIII by reducing two classes (period) every day. “For classes IX to XII, the school timing would remain the same (6.45am to 1pm),” he said.
 
 “Tomorrow, we will conduct five classes while cutting sports activities and, thereafter, we will adjust all classes accordingly without hampering any subject. We will probably minimize the duration of each class,” said R Roy, principal of DAV Public School.
 
 Many parents welcomed the district administration move and claimed the kids would be saved from exhaustion. “Early dispersal in school will save kids from the heat and will also give them time for self-study and tuition classes,” said Sugandha Kedia, whose daughter studies in Class VII in St Joseph’s Convent High School.
 
 The notification has brought much relief to the parents whose wards study in schools located on Bypass Road. Meenakshi Sinha, whose son and daughter go to Patna Central School and Bishop Scott Girl’s School respectively said her kids reach home after 2pm due to traffic congestions. “Several times, they get stuck in traffic snarls for more than two hours,” she complained. “The timing is appropriate and they will get enough time at home to overcome the exhaustion,” said Sinha of Gardanibagh.
 
 
