People who don’t love Vohuman Café’s cheese omelette are nonexistent. It’s true and actress   doesn’t feel otherwise. The pretty lady who was in town for an event recently, agreed to meet us over a plate of the famous cheese omelette and some bun maska and chai (which sent her diet for a toss) and couldn’t stop raving about the food later. A foodie at heart, Sonnalli says, “I like to go on food trips and Delhi and Kolkata have been my favourite places. Now, I think I will add Pune to that list and come here just to sample food.” Shrewsbury biscuits, cheese omelette (again) and missal-pav are on her must-try list.

 The former Miss India International is reuniting with her ' ' co-star Sunny Singh for a rom-com directed by Navjot Gulati next. “It’s a film where I finally end up getting the guy,” she informs. However it’s her upcoming release ' ' that she is excited about right now. She says, “I usually get approached for glamourous parts or rom-coms but 'High Jack' (directed by  ) is completely in a different zone. I have worn the same costume throughout and have minimal make-up.”
 
  
  
 
 Ask her if it’s easy to get stereotyped in the industry and pat comes the reply, “Yes, it is very easy.” She adds, “I am still a victim of it but I don’t know who to blame for it. First I had to break the stereotype that models can’t act. I did that with my first film but then I got typecast for rom-coms. But there are filmmakers who look beyond that and cast you keeping your acting capability in mind. Thankfully for me, I haven’t met anyone who told me I couldn’t act.”
 
  
  
 
 The actress is all for gender equality but feels that there are certain exceptions. “Many women will hate me for saying this but I think feminism is overrated. We make a huge deal out of it. I feel equality should be there but there are certain areas in which women will be better and certain areas where men will be better. Of course, exceptions will be there. People might say men are not good at cooking but don’t we have male chefs? Also, the general sentiment is that women are not great drivers but I drive very well,” she opines.
 Few know that Sonnalli has done theatre as well. She used to do plays with the Kolkata-based group Theatrician and has worked with them on a couple of shows of the theatre adaptation of Agatha Christie’s The Mousetrap. “Theatre was tough but really intoxicating and addictive for me. I had fallen in love with the medium. However, after I got Pyaar Ka Punchnama I got busy and didn’t get the time to go back. If an opportunity comes my way, I would definitely do more plays,” she says.
 
 One of the most talked about topics when it comes to celebs is trolling and Sonnalli has been on the receiving end quite a few times, but she has a simple way to deal with it. “I just ignore the trolls. Most of the times, they escape my eye but if I spot any abusive comment, I delete it. I think all they want is a reaction from you but I don’t want to give them that,” she says.
 
 Coming back to High Jack, we ask her if she's ever gotten high and done something crazy. She replies, "I am always high on life. As for crazy, I recently jumped into a swimming pool after a Holi party, wearing a sari."
 
  
  
