BENGALURU: A consumer court has ordered telecom major   to pay Rs 5,000 as compensation for overbilling a Bengaluru customer, despite him having opted for a plan with a clear credit limit, and forcing him to pay the inflated bill by abruptly disconnecting his service.

 The   2nd Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum held the service provider guilty of deficiency of service and harassment. 
 
  resident R Murali, who was looking for more internet data and additional talktime, went to an Airtel outlet in   on June 1, 2016 and purchased the Infinity Corp 1999 plan that promised free local and STD calls, free roaming, unlimited SMS and 7.1 GB of internet data.
 
 Murali began using his cellphone only to receive a text from Airtel two weeks later that he had exceeded his usage limit. Puzzled, the 44-year-old customer called the Airtel executive at RT Nagar, who convinced him that the new package will kick in within a few days and the discounts would come into effect.
 
 However on June 29, 2016, Murali was shocked to receive an email stating his Airtel bill was Rs 9,979. Murali contacted the Airtel helpline and raised a query about how could the 1,999 plan go beyond the cap without the customer receiving any alert. 
 
 Company’s response
 
 The   executives said there could be a possible mix-up and assured Murali the issue would be sorted out within a few days. But in the first week of July, Airtel barred Murali’s outgoing calls and internet, prompting him to lodge complaints with the service provider, both over phone and email.
 
 Airtel replied that he had used 10.58 GB of data and had exceeded his credit limit, resulting in the inflated bill. While the cellphone remained defunct, Murali received another bill of Rs 5,430 in early August and another mail the following day, stating he had to pay Rs 12,612 immediately. With the figures in the bills not adding up, the   raised yet another complaint with Airtel, but did not receive a proper response. 
 
 On July 8, 2016, Murali lodged a complaint with the consumer court against the nodal officer of Airtel in Bengaluru and its MD and CEO.
 
 Nothing in defence 
 
 While Murali produced relevant documents, including the bills, before the court, Airtel’s counsel, interestingly, did not defend the case. After the litigation lasted 19 months, the judges pronounced the verdict on February 16, 2018, ordering Airtel to restore Murali’s services and pay him a compensation of Rs 5,000 for causing mental agony because of its shoddy service.
 
 
