AHMEDABAD: In a case in  , police scanned about 15,000 DNA samples to catch killer of a 13-year-old girl before they finally managed to get a sample that matched the samples collected from the trousers of the victim. Back home, DNA analysis for linking the crime with criminals was employed in sensational cases such as   gang rape.

 On Sunday, a panel of experts conducted discussion on the theme of ‘Building DNA casework in India to strengthen investigation in sexual assault cases’ at Gujarat University as part of ongoing All India Forensic Science Conference. 
 
 K V Ravi Kumar, director, ISSM, Raksha Shakti University, said that history of DNA analysis in India is about two decades old with the first unit set up in   in 1997. “There are a number of success stories from the field but we also have to remember that the investigating officer of the case decides the course of action and not all states have forensic experts going on the crime scene. Focus should be on standardized sample collection as we need more DNA experts,” he said.
 
 Ravi Kant, Supreme Court lawyer, said that a legal and policy framework for the DNA analysis in crime cases is needed. “The success stories where DNA analysis was employed were already under media glare. It doesn’t apply to all the cases as we need more sensitization and standard operating procedure (SOP),” he said.
 
 Experts also pointed out factors such as coordination between different agencies, utilization of Nirbhaya Fund, better crime scene management and issues related to a person’s right to privacy. Rajiv Giroti, deputy director, CFSL Hyderabad, said that the scenario has improved and a number of major judgements have taken DNA analysis as basis for verdict.
 
 Bruce Budowle, former forensic expert with FBI, USA, said that the push is also needed from the government set-up. Citing example of the US, he said that the policies were promoted by the local politicians. “Sensitization and awareness is also needed among the general public,” he said.
 
 
