It’s been 10 years since   made his acting debut and what better way to ring it in than with his next film Aravindinte Athidhikal. The movie is a family entertainer in every sense – it’s directed by his uncle M Mohanan and has him sharing screen space with his father   throughout the movie. In a candid chat,   talks to us about working with veteran actors, fatherhood, his tryst with celebrity guests and more.

 
 
 The movie is set in Kollur which is the seat of the Mookambika Temple. Majority of the visitors there are Malayalis. Madhavan, achan’s character, runs a guesthouse called Mookambika Vilasom and I play the caretaker named Aravindan. The lodge is 150 years old and people who come don’t usually book it in advance. Aravindan has to canvass the visitors waiting in bus stands and taxi stands and bring them to the lodge. The story is about the relationship between Aravindan and his guests.
 
 It’s an unforgettable movie in my life. First, because a Malayalam movie shot in Mookambika is a rarity. Also, it’s after a long time that I am working with achan throughout a movie and getting to spend so much time with him on the sets.
 
 
 
 A lot, actually. But I think I must have witnessed the largest crowd around our house when when Lal uncle and Mammootty uncle used to come to our home in Pookode, near Kuthuparamba. Whenever they visited the place for a function, people would guess that they would also come home with achan. It used to be a ruckus. We had to lock ourselves in. We would only let our immediate neighbours in but there would be others who would be trying to barge in through the back door or some place, and many would say that if I don’t let them in they would never talk to me again.
 
 
  
 I remember one particular instance. A chechi, who lived next door, told me that she wants to touch Mohanlal. I was very young then and told her, “Athinu njan enthu cheyyana (What am I supposed to do?)” She then clarified that she just wants to shake hands with him. So, I went to the bedroom where Lal uncle was resting and told him that there was a chechi waiting outside who wants to touch him. He got up and said, “Aara mone” and got out of the room and nonchalantly walked outside, asking, “Who wanted to shake my hand?” Spotting her, he gave her a handshake and swiftly returned to his room. After that there was a hue and cry. People were thronging to touch the hand of the chechi who Lal uncle shook hands with.
 
 Similarly, when Mammootty uncle came home, the flower pots outside our home were all broken because of the mob that had gathered to see him. That wasn’t all, our window panes – not just in the hall but also the bathroom were shattered. People adore them to bits.
 
 
 
 Before writing the movie, they had already decided the cast. So, in terms of dialogues or situational humour, that helped. Since maman is a complete family man, he only wants simple, neat and decent humour in his movies.
 
 I also got to work with Urvashi chechi, who is a terrific actress. I got to witness first-hand how she brings alive what is on paper. When a brilliant artiste performs, to even be there in the scene is an experience. I remember in Oru Cinemakkaran, Prashanth Narayanan had done a prominent role. I didn’t have much to do in those scenes, I only had to react. But that was the time I used to learn what an actor could do to push the scene beyond what was written or envisioned. I had the same feeling with Urvashi chechi.
 
 I only had a few days of work with Shanthi ma’am. But she’s not a person that you would think she is based on her characters. She’s extremely talkative, jovial and has this uncanny knack of cracking jokes. After doing an incredible emotional scene, she would ask me, “Njan bhayangara over aayiruno? Ningalude generationinu ishtapeduvo? Avar koovuvo? (Did I overdo? Will it go down well with your generation?)”
 
 
  
 There were so many stories they shared from their yesteryear movies we have watched and loved. For instance, Urvashi chechi told me how she got cast in Mazhavil Kaavadi and how the role was altered once she got the role. Similarly, she and achan used to talk about shooting Thalayana Manthram. As far as I am concerned, success or failure is not the only outcome of a movie. The biggest takeaway for me from this film is the experience of working with these people. It’s not something that you would get often.
 
 
 
 Honestly, I don’t ask anyone about my acting (laughs). But when achan had gone to dub for the climax portions of this movie, he said his eyes welled up after a particular scene and it has come out well. He doesn’t usually say something like that.
 
 Be it for Dhyan or me, when we hear that achan has liked something that we have done, we feel very happy. He doesn’t tell us that directly. He opens up to his friends such as Khalid uncle, who has been his close buddy, Manojettan from Thiruvananthapuram and a few others who are involved in farming with him in Kandanad. They share it with us.
 
 
 
 I think I have only thought about creating an identity up till Malarvadi Arts Club in 2010. I was 25 when the movie released. After that I have realised that the love people have for my father has been a blessing for me. I am not saying this out of humility. It’s not that I got more chances because I think we choose our own opportunities. But I have felt this vibe throughout my career that people wanted me to succeed. It’s not something that happens to everyone. For the past five years, I am counting my blessings because I have seen a lot of people around me who put in much more effort and have more talent than me. Yet, my work gets appreciated. So, I feel lucky and blessed that I am Sreenivasan’s son.
 
 Last week, I met Tamil star Ajith and I introduced myself as actor Sreenivasan’s son because I didn’t know if he knew me or not. But he surprised me when he told me, “We have met in Koyembedu and have talked.” That was 18 years ago. So that’s his quality!
 
 
  
 
 
 After the release of Aravindinte Adhithikal, I am planning to take a one-year break from acting, direction and writing because I want to spend a lot of time with him at home and also travel. For the past three and half years, I have been working almost non-stop. I am immensely enjoying fatherhood. Even if I get a half-day break, I rush home. A few days ago, I was in Coimbatore and had to go to Kochi the next day. It was easier to go to Kochi from there; instead I went straight to Chennai to be with him and then travelled back to Kochi.
 
 
 
 I think the love you have for your father and mother change when you become a parent. You start thinking from their side. In my 20s, I used to take a lot of things for granted while burying myself in work. I didn’t talk to my father or visit home for so many days. I used to think they are going to be there, they aren’t going anywhere. But now I am beginning to understand that they need our presence in their lives too, because I have also started wanting that.
 
 
 
 He hasn’t discussed anything about casting us yet but he narrated the entire script to me. I think his sense of humour is embedded extensively in the script. I laughed a lot. It’s also got a lot of aspects that I love – the film is set entirely in Chennai and it’s a story about relationships.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I think it again harks back to blessings I was talking about – starting from the prayers of both our mothers. He too probably believes that. Recently, scriptwriter Suneesh Varanad was joking about Shaan, saying, “Even when he is on some other path, God calls him back, blesses him and sends him off.” We could feel that. So, what he is consciously trying to do – whenever he can – is to introduce new singers. When you are getting something, you also have to give it back. I also try to do that whenever there is a possibility to accommodate talented actors.
 
