Amid increasing levels of consumerism in metro cities, four ladies from   have chosen to adapt to a complete ' ' lifestyle. It is a lifestyle that encourages the redesigning of resources to prolong their life cycles. The goal is for no trash to be sent out. 

  Vandana K, a minimalist, defines the zero-waste lifestyle as "sending the least possible waste to landfills and not forcing juvenile rag pickers to collect your unsegregated garbage." According to a report by the   in 2016, about 62 million tonnes of waste is produced in India annually, 5.6 million of which is plastic. The report also underlines that 43 million tonnes of waste is collected, out of which 11.9 million is treated and the rest 31 million is dumped in landfill sites. Amid this urban lifestyle, these women –  ,   Deshpande, Monika Khanna Gulati and   – have chosen to declutter and lead an eco-friendly, no-rubbish lifestyle. 
 
  
  Homegrown organic seeds and soapnut plant
 
  Vandana, 28, is a south Delhi resident who works as a freelance writer. She started to consume cautiously, upgraded to minimal consumption and has now produced a small jar of trash in the last six months. Deepa, 35, is a sustainable life coach and zero waster staying in East of Kailash. 
 
  Monika, a graphic designer, is a mother of two sons and has a family of five practising minimal consumption. She says, "In a family of five, we produce only 250 gms of trash in a span of 3-4 weeks." Monika is an avid comopositer at Nirvana Country, Gurgaon. 
 
  
  Homemade cleaning solutions
 
 Ratika Deshpande, a 17-year-old resident of Palam area, lives with a family of seven members and decided to practice minimal living. "She tells us what to do and we follow," says Ratika's father. "There is always an environmental friendly option to everything we use, we just need to opt for those," clarifies Ratika. These women say that the six Rs – Rethink, Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, Repair, and Recycle – of sustainable living, are the key elements they have adopted to reduce garbage. We find out more about their lifestyle choices and the alternatives they've adapted to.
 
  
  Mooncup and cotton pad 
 
  
 
 These women choose to make their beauty products at home to avoid throwingout plastic waste. 
 
  
  For moisturising, she recommends coconut oil. "The soap nut (ritha) costs me Rs 70-80 per kg. I use it as a hair cleaner and it lasts for about three months, much more economical and healthier than a branded shampoo," she says. 
 
  
  Vandana K
 
 
  We make hot oil at home for my grandmother's joints. For bathing, oil and clay paste is used by my entire family.
 
  Deepa doesn't use any bath and body products. She says that the only product she uses is a tooth powder and a bamboo toothbrush. In place of sanitary napkins, they use moon cups and cloth pads.
 
  
  Deepa composting dry leaves and garden waste
 
 
 
  Apart from compositing, they also make snacks and masalas at home. "It saves packaging waste and I always know what's going into my body," she says. Ratika adds that the snacks they cook and the products they make at home are multipurpose and since the ingredients are basic, they hardly cost anything. 
 
  
  She buys groceries from local markets in the cloth bags she stitches to avoid packaging waste. "Everything you need for sustainable living is a one-time cost and their lifespan is always very long," she says.
 
  She grows vegetables on her terrace garden. "Raw leaves and water is my usual breakfast. I love growing plants and they are best when eaten in their most natural form," she says, adding, "Apart from compositing, kitchen's packaging waste is minimized by buying bottles to refill products like milk, tooth powder, cooking oil, tea, lentils, and medicines"
 
  
  Composting pot 
 
  
  Compositing khambas 
 
  
 These zero-wasters also make cleaning solutions used to mop floors at home. 
 
  
  She says, "Leave peels of any citric fruit, onion and garlic peels and a litre of water in a jar for a couple of months. You can use this to make your floor shine and clean white clothes. This cleaning liquid is my favourite. It works better than any market product. The solution hardly costs me `100 and lasts for months."
 
  
  Bamboo brush
 
  
  She makes a solution from soap nut in mopping water and has made a mop with torn socks.
 
  
  She uses the same solution for her hair, utensils, and floor cleaning. "Soap nut is a multipurpose ingredient to make household cleaners," she says.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 All four of them have also opted out of shopping online because of plastic packaging.
 
  
  Ratika compositing in a reused plastic bin 
 
  
  She has 20 bags made from her old clothes to carry stuff home. "A one-time-use plastic is hazardous, even though it is an important material but using and throwing is unsustainable," says Vandana. "I ordered a bamboo brush from a website but made sure they do not send any plastic with it. I only had to keep the tape in my trash jar," she adds.
 
  
  Home-made products 
 
  
  "When I go to eat out, I make sure that I don't take plastic cups since those cannot be reused," says Monika, adding, "I always have 10 bags in my car to ensure that I never have to use a plastic bag." 
 
  
  Reused paper notebook 
 
  
  She carries her own bottle and drinks tap water.
 
  
  
 
 -- Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
 
 
