PATNA:   was celebrated with religious fervour and gaiety here on Monday.

 Chief minister Nitish Kumar and assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary took part in festivities at the residence of chief information commissioner Ashok Kumar Sinha. Governor Satya Pal Malik and the CM also extended their greetings to the people of the state on the occasion. In his message, the CM expressed hope that the festival would foster peace and prosperity and help the state “regain its old glory by virtue of knowledge and learning”.
 
 Young children and adolescents dressed in bright hues of yellow on the sunny winter morning headed to the temples to seek blessing from Goddess Saraswati. A number of puja pandals displaying colourful idols of Goddess Saraswati were also set up at crossings and residential colonies across the city.
 
 Sonika Bansal, a resident of Pataliputra Colony, celebrated the puja with her family members. “On the morning of the festival, everyone dressed up in bright-coloured clothes. The children of the house placed all their books in front of Saraswati as an offering to seek wisdom and knowledge from the Goddess,” she said.
 
 All schools, colleges, private institutions and hostels across the city celebrated Saraswati Puja with students seeking blessing from Goddess Saraswati.
 
 Students of Gyan Niketan celebrated the festival on the school premises. They sang devotional songs and Saraswati Vandana to mark the day.
 
 Students of National Institute of Fashion Technology made ‘rangoli’ on the occasion. They also sang Saraswati Vandana. Teachers and students took part in the ‘aarti’.
 
 Medical colleges in the city also celebrated the festival with much fervour. A huge crowd had gathered in front of the gate of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where a pandal had been set up. The celebrations were organised by the 2016 batch students. Students of PMCH said a community lunch had also been organised.
 
 The students of 2016 and 2017 batches of Nalanda Medical College Hospital jointly organised puja and set up a food stall. Cultural performances were also organised on the occasion. 
 
 
