NOIDA: A land audit conducted by   ( ) has found that no planning has been done on nearly 1,200 hectares acquired or purchased in Greater Noida.

 The audit also mentions that nearly 50 hectares do not find any mention in the GNIDA records. A report on the audit is supposed to be placed before a cabinet committee of three ministers. Based on the report, the committee will recommend action, officials said.
 
 The move to conduct the land audit followed an instruction from the principal secretary, industries,  . 
 
 Officials said the aim of the audit was to create an inventory of the land bank available for planning, optimum use of plots and action against land sharks. The departments dealing with land, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration and the planning department had been coordinating in conducting the audit. 
 
 According to officials, the audit mentions that a total of 15,852 hectares has been acquired by the authority. “Of this, the land acquired from farmers measures 13,476 hectares and 1,136 hectares was acquired through direct purchase,” said B K Tripathi, additional CEO of GNIDA. “Nearly 1,239 hectares is government land while 14,634 hectares is part of the planned sectors in Greater Noida.”
 
 Tripathi denied that there had been no planning across 1,200 hectares.
 
 “Although we have purchased or acquired this land, some part of it, about 197 hectares, is for roads, about 300 hectares has been given for the   and 250 hectares is for the multi-modal transport and logistics hub on the proposed corridor,” he explained.
 
 “About 270 hectares has also been kept aside for farmers, 6 per cent are abadi plots in lieu of land acquired from them in Ganghola village and another 145 hectares in Sadhopur village is yet to be planned.” 
 
 “According to the audit, we have a deficit of only about 40-50 hectares and this will be investigated,” Tripathi said. “We have already provided a list of encroachers and land mafia in Greater Noida area to the GB Nagar district magistrate,” he added.
 
 
