PUNE: School admissions are a nightmare for parents. This is also a time when crooks capitalize on parents’ tension to make quick money by promising admissions. 21-year-old Pranav Choudhari was arrested by Yerawada police on Wednesday for trying to pull off such a gimmick by forging a letter of recommendation from none other than the Prime Minister’s office for admission of two students in Bishop’s school Kalyani Nagar.

 Choudhari, who had given his surname as Bhiku, had produced forged letters of recommendation in letter-heads of various government offices including one with the letter head of Debashree Mukherjee, Joint-secretary, PMO for admission of two students in class III and junior Kindergarten respectively. However, the administration got suspicious and contacted the PMO which denied issuing any such letter. This led to the school officials filing an FIR with the police station on Wednesday post which Choudhari was caught.
 
 “When the school contacted the PMO office, they denied issuing any letter and asked the school to file a complaint. The school principal approached us and we arrested Choudhari on Wednesday. We produced him in court today. We have taken statements from the parents. According to the parents, they were sitting in a hotel discussing about admission problems when they were overheard by Choudhari. He allegedly approached the parents and promised them admissions under VVIP quota. To convince them about his contacts, he also showed them pictures of himself with various high-profile people. Parents in the statement said that they had no idea that the letters were forged,” said Ravindra Gawari, from the Yerawada police station.
 
 The incident happened in March during when the admission process was happening. Police further saidf that till now no exchange of money had taken place between the parents and the culprit. Apart from Choudhari, two others have been booked in the case, according to police. Officials from Bishop’s school refused to comment on the incident.
 
 A senior official from the deputy director’s office commenting on the issue said, “This is a serious matter. The school administration should be careful when accepting any letters of recommendation from parents. It is their responsibility to confirm the authenticity of such letters by informing the respective authorities mentioned on the letter so that such fraudulent practices can be curbed and admissions will happen in a transparent and fair manner.”
 
