LUDHIANA: In order to bring the multi-storeyed building on Rani Jhansi Road to use, deputy commissioner (DC)   and chairman of   (LIT)-cum-chief administrator Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) visited the building on Saturday morning. Both officers took a round of 10-year-old  , which is not ina good shape due to lack of proper maintenance and attention.

 The sources, however, revealed that the authorities are planning to set up a jewellery mart there and shift renowned jewellers in this building. Jewellers are mostly located in old city, where people find it difficult to reach due to traffic jams. But, there is a perfect arrangement for parking as well. However, this is at the initial stage and final decision is yet to be taken in this regard.
 
 The officials checked the building and found out that it needs a lot of repair, especially in the fire-safety arrangements and wiring. DC has asked the LIT officials to prepare estimates for the maintenance of the building. Agrawal said, “Crores have been spent on this building and we are making plans to put it to proper use. We will forward the suitable proposal to the government.”
 
 Construction of the building was started in the year 2000 over 2.22 acres of land. Keeping reserve price Rs 197 crore, the LIT had organised auction for this building several times. But due to high cost, the department failed to get a buyer. The building has a double basement with the capacity for parking of more than 251 cars and two-wheelers. There are total 77 units including restaurants, banks, showrooms, shops and pent houses.
 
 Previous plans
 
 In the year 2013, under the tenure of   as deputy commissioner, LIT chairman had visited the building and offered the income tax department to set up their new office in the building. However, they had demanded Rs 177 crore for the building from the IT department. Similarly, the former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal had proposed a downtown project, which was supposed to come up at the main office building of   on  , whereas the Powercom Powercom was proposed to be shifted to this building.
 
 
