NAGPUR: Maintaining a relationship is not a one way traffic and it should be reciprocal in nature so that life can be made more meaningful where nothing but happiness exists, said noted actress Nishigandha   on Friday.

 Any relationship has to stand the test of time even if there are acrimonies and discord with husband, family or friends. If this is made possible by understanding each other, then it could act like a dessert in the otherwise mundane life, Wad said. 
 
 She was delivering a lecture on ‘Exploring the menu of healthy thali of relationships’ organized as part of SGR Knowledge series at Chitnavis Centre.  , vice-chancellor of   and other dignitaries were present.
 
 “For a relationship to flourish, sufficient time should be spared for the loved ones even in busy schedule as it helps build confidence. It is common knowledge that many relationships take a hit if one of the persons is rubbed the wrong way,” Wad said. The bond any friendship develops should be respected at any cost for which one has to accept the person involved in totality, she added. 
 
 Changes are bound to take place, but showing respect and understanding each other’s expectations can make any relationship fruitful and give the joy no other thing in the world can, Wad said. Talking about the communication gap between parents and children, Wad said care should be taken to trust kids so that they could know what they are expected to do.
 
 In old age, Wad said, providing materialistic comforts to the spouse is not as important as exchanging pleasantries. Happiness cannot be bought, but sharing sweet words can make a lot of difference. People should not take the life partner for granted while taking decisions’ they should respect other’s opinion irrespective of differing views. That is the mantra for a successful life, she added.
 
 The actress said sharing experiences of life with the beloved and having a sensible approach too play their part in maintaining harmonious relations.
 
 It is of paramount importance to know that people want empathy and not sympathy. Any relationship based on the foundation of mutual trust can never be shaken, Wad said.
 
 
