VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority ( ), which had launched a special drive to clear the unauthorised layouts in its limits a month ago, was successful in weeding out these layouts in more than 250 acres of land in Vizianagaram district.

 
 According to the Vuda officials, about 150 unauthorised layouts have sprang up in Vizianagaram district itself, cashing in on the real estate boom. Factors like, announcement of Bhogapuram International Airport, affordable land prices compared to Visakhapatnam and the city’s growth towards north-east resulted in a rise in land prices in Vizianagaram district. 
 
 Earlier, Vizianagaram district administration had sent a list of layouts in the district to the Vuda in two phases to validate their authenticity. Some of the identified unauthorised layouts in Vizianagaram district include 4.85 acre layout in KV Palem, 33.79 acre layout in Chintalapalem, 20.29 acre layout in VB Puram, 34.43 acre layout in Chintalapalem, 8.35 acre layout in Kondavelagada, 27.43 acre layout in  , 17.46 acre layout in Polipalli, 5.73 acre layout in Ramavaram, 4.24 acre layout in  , 4.85 acre layout in   etc. Interestingly, some of the layouts have fancy names and with glossy brochures which promise heaven-like amenities at a very affordable prices. These unauthorised layouts are not only limited to Bhogapuram mandal, where the proposed international airport is coming up, but also to the entire district, including Denkada, S Kota, Pusapatirega, etc.
 
 Vuda chief urban planner V Bhavani Sankar cautioned the public the plots in unauthorised layouts. “We have formed a team of officials to coordinate the exercise. In the first phase, the unauthorised layouts in Vizianagaram will be weeded out and it will be continued further in   and Srikakulam districts,” said Bhavani Sankar.
 
 Explaining the intricacies of layout development, Bhavani Sankar said, “While the development of plots in the approved layouts is limited to somewhere around 60 cents of an acre (100 cents), the unauthorised layout developers will sell more than 80 cents of land as it would not conform to stipulated guidelines or zoning regulations. There will be no roads, open spaces, electricity lines and other utilities in unauthorised layouts.”
 
 
