Ludhiana: In an attempt to help the city climb up the charts in Swacchta Survekshan, municipal commissioner Jaskiran Singh has directed zonal commissioners of four zones to step outside their offices and monitor the cleanliness in the respective areas.

 The zonal commissioners will form joint teams from various wings of the MC and pay personal visit to areas instead of just passing the instructions to lower staff.
 
 The Swachhta Survekshan had kicked off on January 4 and very shortly the teams from Union ministry of urban development (MoUD) are expected to visit the city for inspection of sanitary condition in the city.
 
 Zonal Commissioners will form teams comprising six 6 members each from health branch, horticulture, operation and maintenance cell and bridges and road department to check the sanitation work.
 
 In case the checking teams find construction waste, rubble and garbage during inspection, they should ensure removal of the same then and there. Recently, the Union ministry had issued the instructions to the civic body to appoint one permanent in-charge in each ward so as to keep close check on the movement of staff.
 
 Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh has also made a surprise check on mechanized sweeping carried out during night time. The sanitation drive is being carried out in all wards, but the officials are paying more attention towards the main roads.
 
 MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh said when zonal commissioners will visit various areas, it will leave an impact on the junior staff and they will perform better. He said in the next few days, the central teams can visit the city for Swachhta Survekshan and this time the MC wants to secure good ranking in the survey.
 
 Box: ‘Leave your contact numbers’
 
 Employees have started asking visitors at MC suvidha centre started to leave their contact numbers at one of the counters. Sources said the MC officials will give these numbers to the MOUD teams for public review regarding sanitary conditions in the city.
 
 
