PANAJI: In the end, it all comes down to 90 minutes for  .
  
  The Goan franchise won plenty of hearts with their attacking display in the Indian Super League ( ) but if they fail to qualify for the semifinals, nobody will remember those sizzling early-season victories.
  
  FC Goa have a chance to set everything right for them again as they now need only a point from their concluding league clash against   at the JRD Tata Sports Complex, Jamshedpur, on Sunday, 5.30pm.
  
  Goa have 27 points from 17 matches and a draw will keep them above Jamshedpur, who have 26 points.
  
  “I know a draw is enough for us but once we try and play for a draw, you end up losing the game. We will try and do our very best possible, knowing that we are playing against a good team, very difficult to beat,” said Goa coach  .
  
  There are added incentives for winning the last league clash. Should Goa manage to get the better of Jamshedpur, they will finish above FC Pune City which means they will not just avoid a semifinal clash with in-form Bengaluru FC but also get an extra day of rest.
  
  “Our first aim is to qualify for the semifinals. If we win, we will not finish fourth. Should we finish fourth, the first semi-final will be on March 7, which will be too soon. Also, keeping in mind the travel to Jamshedpur which is quite exhaustive, travel back to Goa (from here) won’t be easy either,” said Lobera.
  
  If Goa finish above FC Pune City with a win on their better head-to-head record (0-2 and 4-0), they will play the second semifinal on March 8 at Fatorda.
  
  Jamshedpur FC need a win to qualify and seal what will be a remarkable achievement for Steve Coppell’s team on debut.
  
  "In a strange sort of way, I am happy that we have to win to go through because that way there is no doubt in our mind. If we would have been able to qualify with a draw, all of a sudden human nature means you try and protect what you have and I don't think that really suits us. The results in midweek mean that we have only one goal in mind and we have only one way we can play. We simply have to win to qualify," said Steve Coppell, who guided Kerala Blasters to the final last season.
  
  The previous fixture between the two sides ended 2-1 in favour of Goa at Fatorda.
