GURUGRAM: The government wants to concentrate Gurgaon’s future expansion around four of its main thoroughfares —  ,  , Southern Peripheral Road and Dwarka expressway — and wants to develop these areas into self-sufficient ecosystems with easy access to public transport and all other conveniences.

 The four corridors, of which Golf Course Road and MG Road are already well developed with Metro lines along them, have been notified under the government’s transit-oriented development ( ) policy. 
 
 This officially allows developers within the notified area a higher floor area ratio (FAR), which means more flats, office spaces and commercial or entertainment areas can be built within the same urban expanse. This can either happen by raising buildings vertically, where possible, or increasing ground coverage where space permits.
 
 Existing group housing societies can build more flats and proposed projects can also be revised. Individual residential plots are covered under the TOD policy. Group housing societies on plot sizes less than half an acre also don’t qualify. The TOD policy is also not applicable to earmarked institutional sites, such as schools, colleges and hospitals. 
 
 However, benefit of additional FAR to existing and under-construction buildings is subject to structural stability certificates from institutions such as IITs. The policy will, however, not be applicable on plots of defaulters or those under litigation.
 
 The TOD rules were framed by the town and country planning department and notified by Huda. It aims to increase mixed-use residential and commercial projects along these four roads and a radius area of 800 metres for each. 
 
 “The larger objective of the policy is to create an enabling environment for maximum use of MRTS (mass rapid transit system, like metro rail) and to wean people away from the car habit,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
 
 Since the TOD zones notified by the state government in its policy of August 2017 included areas acquired and developed or being developed by Huda, there was a need to adopt the TOD policy in Huda sectors. The TOD policy notified by DTCP was applicable to private builder areas only but with the new notification by Huda, it will be applicable in all Huda sectors, most of which are along these four corridors. 
 
 The TOD zone has been bifurcated as an “intense zone” (500 metres) that will have a higher FAR and transition zone (the next 300 metres).
 
 The TOD policy aims at reducing traffic congestion in the city by increasing use of public transport while developing transit corridors which can raise capital for further development of mass transit and public transport services. The main beneficiaries will be the developers who have already developed projects or bought plots in the vicinity of such transit corridors.
 
 “The primary goals of the TOD policy are to reduce and discourage dependence on private vehicles and encourage public transport as well as provide easy transport access to maximum number of people,” said Yadav.
 
 The land uses covered under the policy can avail of the benefit of increased FAR after paying a fee. An applicant will have to submit a request to the estate officer for a revised zoning plan. 
 
 
