AHMEDABAD: Lothal is probably Gujarat’s best known  . A first-time visitor will always be surprised at how close it is to Ahmedabad. Within a couple of hours of driving, the urban sprawl of the metropolis gives way to serene isolation. As a place, Lothal comes with a reputation. That of being the southern-most outpost of the Indus Valley Civilization. Of being its principal port and in that status, a city that would have had international connections. The subcontinent’s first maritime hub? Possibly.

  To a history buff, the site – together with its museum – is a treasure to examine. The site was originally excavated in the 1950s and 60s. The significance of its remains lies in their detailing, in terms of the elaborate care the town planners here took of water management and drainage. Put in the context of the massive challenges both urban and rural India face – in terms of water shortages, inadequate storage systems and collapsing drainage – a close look would be useful.
 
 The entire site is divided into a citadel and a lower town, all of this being protected by a 13m thick wall on the western side, as a precaution against flooding. The standout feature of Lothal is the massive rectangular recessed tank that is popularly known as its dockyard. 
 
 According to most historians, the town planners here had studied tides in detail to be able to leverage connecting rivers at high tide for ships to come into Lothal. Given the way the current Indian government is still working towards creating riverine transportation systems, a 4,000-year-old system on these lines is a remarkable achievement. The tank is most scientifically designed to withstand the flow of water and its current. It also has a water locking device to keep the water in.
 
 The alternate view of Lothal is perhaps even more interesting. This supposes that the ‘dockyard’ of Lothal was in fact, an irrigation tank. The inlet – the same one through which ships are supposed to have come in – actually connected this tank with a river that flowed towards the west. A weir created across the river would divert water towards the inlet from which it could have been lifted out and brought to fields via an interconnected canal system. In a region where rainfall is irregular, this would have provided a source of water almost through the year. It is interesting to note that the walls of the Lothal tank are made, not of earth, but of brick, making it easier to clean the tank and prevent erosion of its sides.
 
  
  While there are strong viewpoints for both the dockyard as well as the irrigation tank theories, what can be safely assumed is that water management was studied in detail here and that those in authority understood the benefits of linking water systems with both daily domestic usage as well as trade and industrial life. Evidence of the latter comes in the form of a large structure that could have been a warehouse. Located on the south-west corner of the citadel, it is built on a 3.5m high platform, ensuring that trade goods could be kept clean and dry. The discovery of several objects of Persian Gulf origin clearly indicates that such steps ensured the city’s prosperity.
 
 According to historians who have studied Lothal in detail, the city had brick cisterns for cleaning and purifying water, equipped with aeration chambers and lime and charcoal filters. Looking at the city’s drainage system is also interesting. The main sewer, made of watertight bricks, connected to sewers flowing north-south and east-west, with drops at regular intervals acting like a cleaning device. Given the extent of the site and its various interpretations, one can debate on what existed here originally, but lessons for current planners and citizens of the region in water management are undeniable. The approach today seems to be to begin thinking of managing water resources only when there is a severe crisis, but in real terms it needs to be an ongoing effort the results of which need to be part of daily lives.
 
 But is anyone interested in learning from the past?
 
 
