NAGPUR: Art lovers of city witnessed the second edition of ‘Creative Creations’ having the theme ‘Vismaranatil Resha’ organized jointly by Vidarbha Sahitya Sangha and Sarjana Nirman at Kaladalan, VSS, on Saturday.

 Three paintings, namely, ‘Sobati’ by Bhaiyyaji Goswami, ‘Shirshakhin Abhivyakti’ by Sadanand Bakre and ‘Mother India’ by Vishwanath Palnitkar were deliberated upon by dramatist Vinod Indurkar, artists Milind Limbekar and Chandrakant Channe respectively. They put forth their perceptions towards the artwork before the audience.
 
 Starting with Bakre’s work, Limbekar displayed various paintings, drawings, sculptures and graphic art created by Bakre and said, “Bakre wasn't just an artist but an all-round personality. He did everything from jewellery designing to realist art and if observed carefully, one realizes that all his art forms have been curated by different artistes. Such was his range.”
 
 He said that harmonious study of colours and soft, rhythmic lines were the speciality of Bakre’s paintings. Explaining about the painting on display, he said that his behaviour and the child in him can clearly be seen in the picture. :He presents a perfect balance of positive and negative spaces and puts on paper an exceptional form using minimal lines,” said Limbekar.
 
 Further, Indurkar took up the podium and started by speaking about Goswami's simple nature and love for village life which were shown by exhibiting his paintings. “Bhaiyyaji’s work always had a rustic beauty due to the simplicity. He outpoured his emotions, experiences and love in his art. Pulling out essence of the contents is difficult but Goswami did it with ease,” he said. 
 
 He then explained the painting ‘Sobati’ as one that shows companionship offered by nature to people in day-to-day life. “His paintings carry out a journey from a particular person to universal,” he said.
 
 Lastly, Channe spoke on the legendary poster of ‘Mother India’ which was painted by Palnitkar and conveyed how such a great artist was forgotten. He narrated the story and rationale behind the selection of elements in the painting and said, “Palnitkar’s artwork clearly shows his deep and calculated thought process. I am still not aware of many things about Palnitkar and his work but when I gained knowledge about this painting, I felt like it is the greatest art I've witnessed till date.” 
 
 Palnitkar's humongous, elegant and intricate set designs were also displayed which left the audience spellbound.
 
 Every session was followed by discussion wherein at times the spectators also expressed their perceptions about the paintings. The programme proved to be a treat for the eyes of all the attendees.
 
 
