AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court feels that the judiciary in the country is under a constant threat and there is a requirement to   for the independence of judiciary.

 The court said so while initiating contempt proceedings against a lawyer for writing a letter to the judge to recuse himself from his case. The HC said that it has to use the power bestowed under provisions of contempt of court, which can reach any neck howsoever high or far away it may be.
 
 Referring the lawyer’s case to the Bar Council of Gujarat for action and issuing contempt notice to advocate Pradeep Chakwawala, Justice J B Pardiwala said, “After more than half a century of independence, the judiciary in the country is under a constant threat and being endangered from within and without. The need of the time is of restoring confidence amongst the people for the independence of judiciary. Its impartiality and the glory of law has to be maintained, protected and strengthened.”
 
 For action against the contemptuous gesture against the court, the court said, “The confidence in the courts of justice, which the people possess, cannot, in any way, be allowed to be tarnished, diminished or wiped out by contumacious behaviour of any person. The only weapon of protecting itself from the onslaught to the institution is the long hand of contempt of court left in the armoury of judicial repository which, when needed, can reach any neck howsoever high or far away it may be.”
 
 The court was angry with advocate Chakwawala for writing a letter to the judge requesting him to transfer the case to some other bench. The lawyer dropped names of senior counsel and a retired judge with whom they all worked as junior advocates. The judge thought the gesture fit to be considered as contempt of court.
 
 The case pertains to Degham town of Gandhinagar district. On a complaint filed and litigation in the HC by one Nagarbhai Patel, local police lodged an FIR for cheating and forgery against a dead person, Mukundbhai Chakwawala. Patel’s advocate I H Syed brought this to HC’s notice and submitted that the real accused were Chakwawala’s three sons including Pradeep.
 
 This revelation led the HC to order CID (crime) to immediately take over the investigation and CID chief has been directed to depute an “honest” officer to probe the case.
 
 
