HYDERABAD : Tragedy stuck on Ugadi when three persons lost their lives in separate road accidents in IT corridor, reinforcing the death-trap tag on the stretch due to rash and drunk driving and poor traffic enforcement.

 
 A 21-year-old food delivery executive working for Zomato died and his colleague suffered injuries when their scooter was hit by an SUV driven by a drunk woman at Biodiversity Park in Gachibowli.
 
 
 In the second accident, a 34-year-old fitness trainer died after his car crashed into a   in Gachibowli, while a 17-year-old died after his bike dashed into a divider in Dundigal.
 
 
 
 
 
 D Chiranjeevi, 21, a Zomato delivery executive from Borabanda died after being hit by a car with a tipsy woman driver around midnight at Biodiversity Park. He along with his colleague,  , was on their way to deliver food. The speeding Hyundai Creta SUV rammed into his scooter. The scooter was mangled and the SUV damaged. “As the car overturned, two women including the driver,  , a 26-year-old CA student, suffered injuries. Janie was drunk and we found a beer bottle in the vehicle,” said Raidurgam Inspector Ram Babu. 
 
 The accused was booked under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC, and section 185 (drunk driving) of Motor Vehicle Act.
 
 
 The second accident occurred at 12.30 am when fitness trainer,  , was returning home with his friend Kotari Pavani (24) from RGI airport after dropping a friend.
 
 Police said the water tanker stopped at a red signal in Gachibowli flyover junction, when Ramesh’s car rammed into the water tanker. The vehicle was speeding. Ramesh bled to death while Pavani suffered leg and facial fracture.
 
 
 In the third accident, a 17-year-old died after his bike dashed into a divider in Dundigal. The deceased,   (17), was a pillion rider. Prem Kumar
 
 
 (17), the driver, was injured. Both are residents of Suraram in Malkajgiri. Police said Prem was driving a Pulsar and was speeding when he lost control of the bike. Kartikeya died on his way to the hospital.
  
  
 
