CHANDRAPUR: A labourer was killed while two others were critically injured in yet another deadly attack by a sloth bear in Tirwanja forest under   range. The furious bear had severed the head of victim Dharmasingh Tekam and inflicted deep gashes on head and other parts of the injured labourers. The bear too was killed by the labourers in self-defence.

 Forest department has hired a group of labourers from   for bamboo felling. These labourers are living in a temporary settlement raised near a forest pond at the outskirts of Tirwanja village. The incident took place in compartment No. 203 of Tirwanja forest beat on Tuesday evening. Sources claimed that while over a dozen labourers were preparing to leave after completing their work, a male sloth bear charged upon them. The panicked labourers ran helter-skelter seeing the bear charge. Some scaled the trees while others took shelter over bamboo thickets. Two of the labourers identified as Premlal Sayam and Sambal Uike came under the sway of the enraged bear.
 
 Fellow labourer Dharmsingh Tekam came to their rescue and attacked the bear with an axe. He managed to put a bunch of blows upon the beast, before it turned on him. Sources claimed that the bear was so enraged following the assault that it tore the head of Tekam from his body and ate it on the spot. While horrified labourers remained over the trees helplessly watching the bear devouring head of their friend, critically injured Sayam and Uike, having no shelter, fled to the camp. Other labourers in the settlement informed Bhadrawati RFO Swati Maheshkar. As rescue team rushed to the spot, the bear delirious from loss of blood from its injuries left the scene.
 
 RFO Maheshkar and other staffers reached the spot to find the torso of Tekam. Frightened labourers atop the trees came down only after the arrival of the forest team. Later foresters discovered the carcass of the bear around 20 meters from the spot. It had died of excessive bleeding from injuries. Critically injured Sayam and Choudhari have been rushed to Nagpur for emergency treatment. DFO, Chandrapur, Sonkusre confirmed the incident and claimed that necessary medical care is being provided to the injured labourers. 
 
 Earlier on May 13, 2017, a sloth bear had killed three tendu labourers and mauled three others in   forest range, forcing the forest department to gun it down to rescue other labourers holding for their lives on trees.
 
 
