CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court on Monday issued notice to the Punjab government, and DGP (prisons) on a plea seeking court-monitored probe into spread of HIV virus among prisoners in Punjab jails.

 A division bench of the HC headed by Justice Surya Kant has issued the notice after taking cognizance of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by   of   in   tehsil of Patiala district. 
 
 Referring to some media reports, the petitioner has stated in the PIL that at least 1,630 inmates in nine central jails in Punjab have tested positive for HIV. Modern Jail, Fridkot, has the highest number of 439 HIV positive inmates, while   has 30, Ferozepur 322, Amritsar 299, Kapurthala 210, Ludhiana 137, Patiala 75, Hoshiarpur 63 and   55.
 
 According to the petitioner, spread of HIV positive disease among jail inmates is caused due to sharing of syringes (used for taking drugs) and through sexual contact.
 
 The jail authorities avoid their responsibility by contending that medical examination of persons is not done before lodging them into Jails. Thus, the high incidence of HIV positive cases amongst jail inmates is taking place with connivance of jail officials, and an independent probe should be conducted by a high powered team of retired and honest police officers, advocates and retired judges, the petitioner argued. He added that such team would bring out the true reasons for spread of HIV positive cases among jail inmates. It was further argued that the measures suggested by such a team will go a long way in preventing HIV positive from spreading its wings in jails.
 
 The counsel also pleaded that conducting of medical examination and maintaining of records of such medical examination of persons before lodging them into jail, would prevent spread of this dreadful disease further, and conducting of periodical examination of jail inmates would help fixing responsibility of jail officials, if such a person (who did not test positive for HIV) is later found to be inflicted with the virus.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on March 12.
 
 
