NEW DELHI: In a major disappointment for the wrestling fans, the much-anticipated bout between   and his newest rival   during the   (PWL) on January 21 will not happen as the double Olympic medallist has effectively pulled out of the   due to his dodgy knee.

 
 Sushil, whose growing rivalry with Rana in the 74kg weight category has become the talk of the wrestling circles ever sincetheir illtempered bout during the selection trials for the Gold Coast CWG, confirmed to TOI that he would not be contesting against Rana on Sunday, fearing any rough grappling could aggravate his injury. Sushil recently picked up the injury while training at the Chhatrasal stadium last week. He had initially hurt his knee in the final against Jitender Singh during the trials on December 29, and had even gone for a precautionary MRI.
 
 "My kneehad been troubling me since the CWG trials. Later, it got worse during a training session. I could feel the pain. The knee isn't in good shape and the bout (against Rana) is less than three days away. I don't want to aggravate my injury," said Sushil.
 
 However, Sushil scoffed at the suggestion that he may pull out of the Asian Wrestling Championship in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan from February 24 to March 4. The CWG trials had doubled up as the selection meet for the Asian event as well.
 
 "I am not relaxing at Chhatrasal. I have been continuing my training while looking to quickly recover. There's a lot of time left for the Asian championship to start and I am confident of participating in it. I am sure my knee will hold good at the event," he added.
 
 Sushil, the costliest wrestler in the history of the PWL commanding a whopping Rs 55 lakh, has not taken to the mat so far in the league, including Thursday's match against Punjab Royals. In his team Delhi Sultans' opening encounter againstMumbai Maharathi, hiscategory was blocked by rival team captain  . In Sultans' second game against Haryana Hammers, Sushil was to fight 2017 World Championships silver medallist, Russia's Kethig Tsabolov, but pulled out at the last minute. In his place,   fought in the 74kg category and lost10-0 to Tsabolov. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Pro Wrestling League (PWL), whose previous two editions were marred by instances of organisational mismanagement, has once again found itself in the news for wrong reasons.
 
 Less than 24 hours after the   pulled out of the PWL accusing the organisers of "cheating", the franchise, captained by Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik, made a complete u-turn and returned to the league, blaming a private sports management firm for the mess.
 
 Late on Wednesday night, an official press release from the Maharathi's media team had claimed that "in a reaction to cheating by the PWL organisers, led by ProSportify CEO Sunil Yash Kalra, the team owners of the Maharathi have decided to withdraw from the third edition of the PWL with immediate effect".
 
 The trigger for their haphazard decision was an incident that occurred during the toss time between Maharathi and their opponent, Veer Marathas. After Malik won the toss, she opted to block the wrestler in the 74kg category but was prevented from doing so by the organisers.
 
