PUNE: There will be many firsts in terms of security arrangements this year for the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC, standard XII) examination starting from Wednesday.

 The information technology exam will be conducted online. About 1,20,756 students have registered for this exam. 
 
  
  
 
  Answer sheets will have bar codes, question paper seals will be opened in front of the students, only 25 students will be seated in each class __ these are among the security measures taken this year by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education to curb paper leaks. 
 
 Addressing a news conference here on Tuesday, Shakuntala  , chairman of the state board said, controlling cases of copying have been the top concern for the board officials.
 
 "An experts’ committee was set up and based on their recommendations, the state board has initiated new measures. Students will have to reach exam centres by 10.30am and after the final bell goes off at 11am, no student will be allowed inside the examination hall. Late entry would be allowed only in exceptional cases with the permission of the divisional board," she said. 
 
 Due to cases of paper leaks on social media last year, the state board has taken utmost precautions in the arrangement of the examination this year with the introduction of sealed question paper sets, 25 students in each classroom among other measures.
 
 Students will receive answer sheets 20 minutes before the official exam time to fill up personal details and question papers will be given ten minutes before the official time. Students can start writing the exam ten minutes after they receive the question papers.
 
 In view of the exam malpractices, apt security arrangements, including videography, have been made at all exam centres. The district collectors concerned will head the vigilance committees for overseeing a smooth conduct of the exam while flying squads and sitting squads will visit the centres. "Considering last year's case where one paper was leaked on WhatsApp, we have ensured that no exam official carries a cellphone inside the exam centre and students are not allowed to carry one," Kale said. Flying and sitting squads,   cameras and monitoring committees under the chairmanship of district collectors have been set up.
 
 
