CHENNAI: Smell of old   and mildewed books entrenched with the smell of paint enticed visitors at the renovated heritage   on the first floor of   Public Library, which was open to the public for   on Monday.

 Old and young people visited the library, drifting through the timeless collection of books across years and genres, which made them reminisce of days of yore which they spent reading books in a library, and evidently, it was the older generation that was left starry-eyed. 
 
 Wooden carvings inside the library, ceilings painted with art figurines, the wooden shelves, and spiral staircases only aided the visitors to visit a magical world that revolved around journals, books, and newspapers dating back several decades. 
 
 When A Viji was studying at the Government Arts College off Mount Road back in 1982, she used to rush to the public library that was back then situated right next to her college. But gradually all the books from that library were moved the Connemara Library, which was started in December 1896. An avid reader, she changed two buses and a train to travel from Keelkattalai to   to visit the magic of being inside a library, which she felt was diminishing these days.
 
 “My own kids use the internet for everything. No one wants to visit the library these days. When I was studying, the only source I had was such books,” Viji said. “When I heard that the heritage library would be open, I rushed to see it. The feeling is magical,” she said, awed by the stellar collection of books dating back several decades.
 
 A lover of art, she admiringly went through the yellow- stained pages of old books on Leonardo Da Vinci and Indian sculptures. The first editions of many books, for instance, Lampas Siue Fax Artium Liberalium that was published in 1604, and the Bible, published in 1608, were kept preserved in wood and glass cases.
 
 At the entrance to the library and on the first floor, tables and chairs were set up for visitors to pick up and read books of their choice. Many like Viji, spent hours sifting through the collection of the library that is currently holding over a lakh books across two floors.
 
 D Ranganathan visited to see the books exhibited. “From the government orders of the Tamil Nadu government to books on governance, administrative studies, zoology, murals, Buddhism, archaeology, engineering, biology, you name it, every topic is covered. Such a trove of knowledge must be used by all,” he said. As the library would remain open to the public until Wednesday, the library is expected to be visited by at least a thousand people. “Over a hundred visited today. We are expecting more crowds in the next two days. Last year, 935 people visited the heritage library,” said a staffer at the library.
 
 
