LUDHIANA: It seems that no lessons have been learnt from the past fire incidents in the city where lives were lost and property damaged. The fire incident in New Jainish Hosiery in   colony on Saturday morning again brought to the fore the lack of fire safety measures in the area and how industrial units continue to flout fire safety norms, thus putting lives at risk. In fact, most of the industrial units operational within the residential areas are waiting for some tragedies to happen. The firemen claimed that no arrangements have been made by the industrial units even and when a fire breaks out, they do not even find water supply to handle the situation.

 Even in the New Jainish Hosiery fire incident on Saturday, the factory was constructed in such a way that no building bylaws were followed. The assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Sandhu said they faced a lot of trouble to control the fire because. According to him, there was a partition inside the factory due to which the firemen had to face hardship to control the fire.
 
 He said the owner must have had connected the factory with adjoining buildings without removing the partition. He also revealed that one more floor was under construction and the adjoining house, which was connected to the factory, was also under renovation.
 
 Meanwhile, one of the   officials said nobody visited the factory to ask for the approval of a building plan. Therefore, no norms were followed. The MC official on condition of anonymity said they do not have adequate power to check the irregularities. Most of the times, they fail to take action against the violators owing to political pressure.
 
 Notably, after the fire and building collapse incident in   on November 20, 2017, many irregularities came to the fore. The MC had also decided to conduct a survey of units flouting the fire safety norms. A fire audit was started a few months ago but then the fire brigade officials got busy dousing flames in several fire incidents. This interrupted the survey process.
 
 
 
 The state government is yet to implement the Fire Safety And Prevention Act in Punjab. Only then, the fire department will get adequate powers to take action against such defaulters. Though a separate fire directorate has been notified by the fire brigade department but the infrastructure and Fire Safety Act is yet to come into force. The fire officials claim after every incident the owner did not follow fire safety norms but they fail to take action against the violators in absence of powers.
 
 
 
 
 Every year, on an average 300 to 400 fire incidents take place in city. However, in 2010, the most number of fire incidents were reported. Nearly, 1,098 fire incidents took place in the city in 2010. In 2013 and 2016, 978 and 860 fires broke out in Ludhiana respectively. Meanwhile, in 2017, the fire brigade department received around 324 calls and most of them were major incidents. On November 20, 2017, Ludhianvis were in for a shock after a multi-storey building collapsed and a fire broke out in Suffian Chowk. Nine fire officials lost their lives. Also, four firemen received serious burn injuries on May 11, 2017, at a textile unit in the Industrial Area A, near Suffian Chowk.
 
 
 
