PATIALA: The Punjab Pollution Control Board ( ) is likely to seek inputs from officials of the excise and industries departments before finishing its inquiry into the May 17 molasses spill in the Beas which led to the death of thousands of fish.

 An inquiry panel formed by the pollution board to probe the spill submitted its report to PPCB chairperson K S Pannu on Tuesday, but a source said proceedings were yet to be concluded. Sources in the state government said excise department was required to check sugar mills regularly for production and sale of molasses, which is used as a raw material in distilleries. The preliminary inquiry report has confirmed that the spillage was caused by a blast in one of the boilers installed at the sugar mill, which damaged the pipes that linked the boiler to molasses storage facilities.
 
 It also confirmed the mill lacked safety measures which could have prevented the molasses from leaking into the river. The board will now determine the quantity of molasses stored inside the mill, owned by Chadha Sugars and Industries. For this, it has asked excise officials to join the probe.
 
 Sources said PPCB would be asking the industries department to establish if it had conducted regular checks to ensure safety measures were in place at the mill. “We will submit a final report to the state government on Thursday, only after getting all the inputs,” said sources.
 
 The department is suspecting the molasses which leaked into the river could not have been washed away by the release of fresh water and some of it had settled on the riverbed, causing additional damage to the entire river system downstream   village, where the spillage and occurred.
 
 CM wants update today
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain  , on Wednesday, warned against any laxity or leniency in the May 17 molasses spill in the Beas River and directed agencies concerned to vigorously pursue legal and penal action against the offenders. Reviewing the progress of the action taken so far, the CM sought a detailed report from the department of environment by Thursday.
 
 
