Nagpur: Recognition of Centre for Higher Learning and Research Committee chairman A M Kutte, who had to visit Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) on Saturday for granting it the status of place of research, pulled out at the last moment.  This may jeopardize plans of PhD aspirants as it will take another couple of months in renewal of the status. Kutte is a professor at Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). Sources said qualification of the panel members might be the reason behind Kutte’s decision to pull out at the last moment. The Nagpur University (NU) officials, however, denied the charge, saying the chairman was not available in the town. TOI learned that Kutte was in the town on Saturday but did not answer repetitive phone calls. Even Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is the chairman of Research Recognition Committee (RRC) and heads the college section, too didn’t answer TOI’s calls. On January 2, TOI had pointed out that how the NU named non-PhD holders and inexperienced teachers to the RRC to inspect YCCE.  After Kutte pulled out, the inspection visit too was cancelled. The college section refused to disclose the next date of the inspection. With this, the aspirants, whose PhD entrance test (PET) validity is expiring during the period, will be at the receiving end. In fact, the NU could have easily avoided such a situation by taking action soon after TOI reported the issue. But the university top brass dragged its feet on the issue forcing the chairman to skirt the controversy by giving the inspection a miss.  I C Mehta of Manoharbhai Patel Institute of Engineering & Technology, Gondia, Nitin Janwe and P S Kulkarni, both working at Chandrapur’s Rajiv Gandhi College of Engineering, and V V Chakole of KDK College of Engineering, Nandanvan, did not hold a PhD degree but yet were named in the committee. An NU official, while defending the university stand, said there is no need to be PhD for being the member of the panel. “There are just two factors need to be checked during inspection. One, the department has completed 10 years; two, it has at least two PhD teachers,” he said. “If that was the case, why did not the university assign the task to its security guards,” quipped another university official while countering the official.