PUNE: The state prosecution on Tuesday argued that there was prima facie a case against   leader   to show that he hatched the conspiracy and instigated his followers to commit the January 1 violence at Koregaon Bhima. 

 
 
  
 
 "Ekbote also indulged in activities prejudicial to social peace and harmony and against the government," district government pleader Ujjwala Pawar submitted before additional sessions judge S M Menjoge. The court was hearing Ekbote's bail plea in the second case registered by the Shikrapur police about the violence. 
 
 On April 4, special judge Prahlad C Bhagure had granted bail to Ekbote in the first case registered by a victim of the violence for the offences under the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The same day, Ekbote was arrested in the other case and sent to Yerawada Central Prison. 
 
 His lawyer S K Jain argued that Ekbote's arrest was merely to frustrate the special court's bail order and that the conspiracy charge against Ekbote was far-fetched. The judge posted the matter for an order on Thursday.
 
 The police’s case against Ekbote is that between December 28 and 30, 2017 he visited a hotel at Perne phata near Koregaon Bhima to meet his associates and distributed pamphlets urging dalits not to be part of an event that eulogises the British and that the government should not support such event.
 
 Pawar relied on the contents of the police’s FIR narrating the chain of events leading to the violence and also read out excerpts from the pamphlets which, she argued, brought two communities against each other in a dispute over the claim that Ambedkar himself had disapproved of the annual Dalit gathering in Koregaon Bhima. 
 
 “The constitution guarantees a fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression but Article 51-Ae of the same casts a fundamental duty on every citizen to promote harmony and the spirit of brotherhood among all citizens,” she argued. By distributing the pamphlets, knowing well that it would create a dispute, the accused committed an act prejudicial to social peace and harmony, Pawar argued. 
 
 Jain submitted that the pamphlets reflected only the thoughts and opinion and cannot be seen as a conspiracy as there was no prior knowledge about the violence that occurred two days later. 
 
 He submitted that Ekbote was not present at Koregaon Bhima on the day of the violence and the accused who were present have been granted bail. As such, ground of parity exists. Moreover, his name did not figure in the initial FIR nor was he shown as absconding till his arrest on April 4, the counsel submitted. 
 
 
