TRICHY: Upset over cheating on the promise of arranging for job abroad, four youths abducted a 48 year old man in Srirangam here on Monday. The police caught them from   and rescued the battered man from the four within a couple of hours.

 The Srirangam police arrested R Sridhar, 30 from Kumulur, P Balasubramani, 26 from the same village, R Moorthi Raja from Pullambadi and  , 18 from Kumulur yesterday for abducting and beating up K Ravichandran, 46 a resident of Ariyamangalam in  .
 
 On Monday evening, Ravichandran and his wife R Shanthi, 33 visited Srirangam Sri Ranganathasamy temple and returned to take his bike at South Uthira Street.
 
 The quartet immediately pounced on him and pushed him into a car with his wife witnessing the scene. The car vanished in no time. The panic-stricken wife acted swiftly and rushed to the Srirangam police station. The police, on receiving her complaint, swung into action.
 
 A special team led by inspector Srirangam police inspector Uma Shankar started the investigation. On collecting the details of the suspects, the police tracked their mobile numbers which led them to Kumulur.
 
 The four men kept him in a room and beat him black and blue. The police rounded them up and rescued Ravichandran. 
 
 “They had thrashed him badly that it could have even caused him internal injuries. Since we had arrived on time, it was possible to save him,” said inspector Uma Shankar today.
 
 The   and the assault were the consequences of Ravichandran cheating three men of the quartet of Rs 2.75 lakhs. Ravichandran was an agent with Megnam Travels in Egmore in Chennai. He had collected the amount from trio- Sridhar, Balasubramani and   several months back on the promise of getting them jobs in  . Since there was no arrangement for job or returning the money despite several reminders, they abducted him to get back the money. Silambarasan a relative of Sridhar also played a role in the abduction.
 
 The injured Ravichandran was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). All the four were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
