HYDERABAD: While majority of multiplexes and commercial complexes in the city are following the free parking rule, single screen theatres continue to loot residents with parking charges.

 
 “Police, municipal and district officials have failed to enforce the rules. I am filing a complaint against Shanti Theatre in Narayanaguda for collecting Rs 20 for two-wheelers and Rs 30 for four-wheelers. I visited   theatre, they are also collecting parking fee. They claim that they are exempted and are quoting a reported statement by GHMC Commissioner B Janardhan Reddy. However, they failed to show any order of the exemption,”   activist   told TOI.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “Many multiplexes and commercial establishments are following the rule. But commercial buildings like those hosting passport Seva Kendra in Begumpet are collecting parking charges. I have been pointing out flaws in the government order on free parking rule which can be easily misinterpreted to collect parking fee,”
 
 According to orders, no parking fee can be collected from any person for parking his or her vehicle up to 30 minutes. The charges can be exempted if the vehicle is parked over 30 minutes and upto one hour if the person produces the bill or movie ticket to an amount which is more than the parking fee.
 
 Above 30 minutes and upto one hour it is free if the person produces a bill or any amount of proof of s hopping in the respective mall or multiplex. In case of other persons parking fee for duration may be collected. For more than one hour it is free if the person. In case of other persons who failed to provide the bill or movie ticket prescribed parking fee for the duration may be collected.
 
 Racvhakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh Muralidhar Bhagwat earlier tweeted that as per the GO 63 on parking fee there is no exemption for single theatre cinema halls.
 
  on Sunday tweeted,”Except for Rachakonda police the Hyderabad and   police refusing to respond to the complaint or help citizens who are looted in the name of parking fee.”
 
