JAIPUR: Life has changed for the worse for minor rape survivors in the state. In one case a survivor had to change her city and move to a different state, the condition of another who suffered injuries is such that she has not been able stand on her feet without support. 

 
 A 16-year-old rape survivor from Churu is leading a painful life but still hasn’t lost her hopes. She appeared for class XII examination on a wheelchair.
 
 The girl was allegedly gang-raped in a village in Churu on December 24, 2016. “When she was brought to us, her spinal cord was damaged. Her lower body was completely paralysed. Later, she developed bedsores. She is a brave girl, who underwent surgeries for spinal cord and also for bedsores. She is dependent on others for daily routine works. Our aim is to make her independent,” said Dr.  , professor ( ),   (SMS) Hospital said.
 
 The girl had suffered grievous injuries including a fractured spine, broken wrist, and has stitches underneath her eyes.
 
 Her father is dejected but he is helping her daughter to revive. He has quit his job to help her get an education. “I took her to the examination centre in an ambulance. She cannot walk. Also, she has no control on her urine. She does not feel that she has urinated,” said her father talking to ToI. 
 
 Now, SMS Hospital doctors are helping her in getting a disability certificate, which will help her in further education and securing a job and also entitle her to a pension. “But these are just efforts that will not be able to heal her scars which are not visible,” said her father. 
 
 Besides, a Sikar girl, who was gang-raped when she was just four-years-old in 2013, has preferred not only to change the city but the state also. She underwent more than 20 major and minor surgeries for the wounds she had suffered during her gang rape. “As a follow-up, we tried to locate the girl in Sikar but learnt that she is not there,” said  , nodal in-charge, one-stop crisis management centre for children (OSCMCFC). 
 
 Government-run child speciality JK Lon hospital provides treatment to at least 12 minor girls, who are brought from different parts of the state for injuries they suffered when they had to face heinous crimes. JK Lon hospital superintendent Dr   said, “It is really sad to see that such young girls who are not even 10 years of age are brought to us for treatment, not for a disease but for something which is really inhuman.”
 
 
