BENGALURU: It was a blacker than usual black Monday for citizens of the state as they were handed a financial double whammy — an   and a  

 
 
  
 The   (KERC) has approved an increase in power charges ranging from 20 paise to 60 paise per unit under different categories. Fixed charges have also undergone an upward revision — from Rs 5 per unit to Rs 10 for low tension (LT) connections, generally used by domestic consumers apart from others. The hike comes in with retrospective effect from April 1.
 The increase means an urban household that consumes up to 300 units per month will now have to pay Rs 79 more for energy charges (see table). This excludes fixed charges and taxes. The amount will vary depending on usage slabs specified by different supply companies (Escoms).
 
 MK Shankarlinge Gowda, KERC chairman, said: “The Escoms had sought a differential tariff hike ranging between 82 paise and 162 paise per unit for all categories of consumers. But we decided to approve a uniform increase across all Escoms with a marginal differential increase in Bescom areas (which caters to Bengaluru and neighbouring districts).”
 
 While the overall increase in tariff for the state is 5.3%, in Bescom areas it is 5.93%. The hike has been attributed to losses suffered because of the cost of purchasing power and upgradation of infrastructure.
 
 However, while domestic users will bear the brunt, KERC has attempted to ensure better supply by introducing a special scheme for hightension (HT) consumers. It has offered HT consumers an incentive of Rs 2 per unit for power consumed between 10pm and 6am and a Re 1 incentive for power consumed between 6am to 10am.
 
 “There is a lot of power available at night and consumption is low during this time,” a senior Bescom official. “We want industries to increase consumption at night. It will do a lot of good for the grid too.”
 The hike has left residents in Bengaluru upset. Raghavendra YN, an entrepreneur and a resident of Nagarbhavi said he usually spends between Rs 3,800 and Rs 4,200 on electricity. “With the increase, we have to think twice before using our air conditioner (AC), inverter and refrigerator,” Raghavendra, whose family has six members, said. “Before installing the AC, our electricity bill used to be between Rs 1,600 and 1,800. Since the temperature shot up this year, we installed an AC. It will cost us.
 
 “Though there are sufficient resources, the government taking a stand to increase   will definitely affect every consumer. We pay such hefty taxes (annual and through GST in everything we buy) and this hike is unacceptable,” he added. 
 
 
