NEW DELHI: As league stage toppers   begin their   2018 play-offs against second-placed   in today’s first Qualifier, their mentor   insists that the franchise will not be phased by three losses in a row. 

 
 
 
 
 After becoming the first franchise to seal passage to the play-offs, SRH lost to CSK - for the second time this season - by eight wickets, followed by defeats to   and Kolkata Knight Riders for a hat-trick of losses. This has taken some sheen off their otherwise captivating campaign in IPL 2018, one that came after regular captain David Warner was ruled out. 
 
 
 
 
 "Ideally, Sunrisers Hyderabad would have loved to have gone into the play-offs with greater momentum, but we won’t be unduly perturbed with three consecutive losses. We know the areas we need to improve in but, as we have stressed throughout the season, our focus has been on the processes rather than the outcome. We will take the positives from our campaign which netted us nine wins and the top position on the table," wrote Laxman, who played 22 IPL matches between 2008 and 2011. 
 
 "While it is nice that the reward for our consistency is two bites at the cherry in our bid to make the final, we won’t dwell too much on it. We will reflect on what we did well when we won those nine matches, and attempt to replicate them against Chennai, who are a formidable team, but far from invincible. Personally, I am excited at what lies ahead over the next week."
 
 Reflecting on what he termed "the most intense and eagerly contested IPL to date", the Indian batting icon singled out the influence of young Indian players and the wise heads of SRH captain   and CSK skipper  . 
 
 "Wrist-spinners in particular have had a wonderful time, but there has been reward for variety and versatility. It is also very heartening to see young Indian talent come to the fore because, after all, that is one of the objectives of the IPL. At the same time, men like Kane Williamson and MS Dhoni have reiterated the virtues of experience and composure, and it is no surprise that it is teams headed by these two giants that top the qualification race," wrote Laxman. 
 
 On today’s first Qualifier, Laxman said the play-offs were about mental fortitude. 
 
 "Whatever has happened till now, however, will hold little meaning over the final week of the competition. It now all boils down to hunger and desire, but also calmness under pressure coupled with an attacking mindset. In a knockout situation, it isn’t merely about the skills you possess, but also how you react under pressure. The stakes have got massive all of a sudden," he wrote. 
 
