BHUBANESWAR: The ministry of railways has decided to drop the proposed work of setting up of a Wagon Manufacturing Factory at Sitalapalli in Ganjam district. It was revealed through a RTI reply furnished by the Railways.

 Answering rights campaigner Hemanta Kumar Panda’s RTI query, the East Coast Railway (ECoR) said the Railway Board has taken the decision as sufficient capacity for manufacturing of wagons is available over Indian Railways. Even the RTI reply said there is no other proposal at present for setting up of wagon factory in the ECoR zone. 
 
 Official sources said establishment of five wagon manufacturing factories had been announced in the budget (2011-12) under   (PPP) mode. These places were Guwahati, Bardhaman, Haldia, Secunderabad and Bhubaneswar (later changed to Sitalapalli).
 
 After the project was sanctioned in 2012-13, the state government had identified 101 acres of land at  . Even the Railways sanctioned token money for the project till 2016. Last year it stopped sanctioning any token amount for the project.
 
 Minister of state for railways   on March 28 last year had written a letter to chief minister   regarding difficulties in constructing the wagon factory project. He had mentioned in the letter that demand for wagons may not arise till 2024. “There appears no need of constructing any new wagon manufacturing factory in the immediate future,” Gohain had told Naveen in the letter. 
 
 The RTI revelation evoked sharp reaction from ruling BJD and opposition  . “The Railways had shifted a project from Kalahandi to Andhra Pradesh. Now it dropped the project work at Sitalapalli. It proved the Centre’s neglect towards Odisha,” said BJD leader and Gopalpur MLA Pradip Panigrahy.
 
 Congress party chief whip Tara Prasad Bahinipati said the   government tries to fool people of Odisha. But people know the actual character of the saffron party led Centre, he added.
 
 BJP vice president Samir Mohanty said the railway has dropped the project for a time-being due to lack of demand. “If the demand for wagons increases in future, the Railways will give priority to the Sitalapalli project,” he added. 
 
 The Railways had also shifted the proposed wagon maintenance workshop in Kalahandi district to Vishakhapatnam of Andhra Pradesh in 2016. The railways relocation move had invited sharp political reactions last year. The Railways had originally proposed the POH (periodical over haul) shop in Kalahandi district in 2013. Later it decided to set up an Electric Loco Periodical Overhauling Workshop, a maintenance workshop for electric engines, in the district at an estimated cost of Rs 186.37 crore.
 
