CHANDIGARH: The   (JERC) has expressed displeasure over failure of the electricity department to fill vacant posts.

 The staff shortage is affecting the functioning of the department which has failed to comply with repeated directions issued by JERC. Unhappy with the delay, the commission has observed that the department has repeatedly failed to comply with the directives. The commission has asked the chief engineer and the secretary (power) to take up the matter in the interest of consumers.
 
 The issue was also taken up by residents during the public hearing session held in March.
 
 According to official figures, the power department is managing its affairs with just 961 employees against the sanctioned strength of 1,780.
 
 The JERC in its order dated June 24, 2014, had directed the power department to fill the vacant posts in a phased manner as per finding of the manpower study, which had highlighted acute staff shortage in the department.
 
 After the department failed to comply with the direction,   moved a petition to JERC seeking directions to the department to fill the vacant posts at earlier. While disposing of the petition, the commission in its order issued on July 13, 2016, directed the department to fill the vacant posts within three months.
 
 In the order, the commission had expressed displeasure over non-compliance of orders. Till date, the department has failed to comply with the order.
 
 The union from past several years has also been pressing the administration for filling the vacant posts in the department.
 
 A total of 158 linemen are working against the sanctioned strength of 253 and 286 assistant linemen against sanctioned strength of 625.
 
 The staff shortage has affected the functioning of the department. The field staff is unable to restore power in cases of breakdown. The southern sectors — 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49 – are worst affected during the peak summer season.
 
 UT Powermen Union general secretary   said due to shortage of staff, consumers face lot of problem during peak summer season. “Timely detection and repair of fault becomes difficult in summer,” said Joshi.
 
