SHIMLA: Failure of the authorities to check industrial pollution in   area of Solan district is wreaking havoc on residents.

 A report submitted by the amicus curiae in   high court has revealed that there has been tremendous increase in the number of cases of   and gallbladder stone in   village of Nalagarh in the past few years.
 
 Different studies in India and world have shown that long exposure to pollution can cause kidney diseases and gallbladder stone.
 
 The amicus curiae in his report has said that nearly all the villagers had reported the presence of red shining dust in the air, which causes irritation and watering of eyes. The dust increases so much in the night that it becomes difficult for them to open their eyes, it added.
 
 The matter had reached the high court after residents of Honda Kundi village filed a letter petition and the court took suo motu cognizance. In their petition, the residents have blamed an industry in Baddi for discharging effluents in huge quantity.
 
 The report also pointed out various discrepancies on the part of industry under question.
 
 “Now, this report has falsified the rosy picture, which the state, its instrumentalities and the project proponent were otherwise projecting before the court,” observed the division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice Sandeep Sharma in a recent judgement.
 
 The discharge of effluents is likely to increase diseases, including cancer, the court said.
 
 The court has directed the principal secretaries of health and irrigation & public health to get the entire area inspected. “It should be done at least once every quarter and any sign of increase in the disease, directly related to the discharge of effluents, should be viewed seriously and appropriate action should be taken,” it added.
 
 The HC also directed the chairman and the member secretary of the HP State Pollution Board to ensure that all industrial units established in the area and more specifically five units, referred to supra, are inspected in every quarter for ensuring compliance of environmental laws.
 
 Meanwhile, the HP State Pollution Control Board has taken action against the erring units and has informed the court about the action taken against five units and how these units are complying with the environmental laws.
 
 
