NEW DELHI: Congress president   today took a swipe at   and said that the PM's words ring hollow as the  , which was signed by PM Modi in 2015 amid great fanfare and promise, is yet to see the light of the day.

 
  Questioning the credibility of PM's word, the   tweeted: 
 
  "August 2015, Mr Modi claims to create history by signing the NAGA accord. Feb 2018, Naga Accord is still nowhere to be found. Modi ji is the first ever Indian PM whose words don't mean anything. #CantFindTheAccord."
 
  
  
 Rahul's tweet comes in the background of a demand made by several Naga groups and political parties who had asked for postponement of the state’s polls to facilitate early resolution to the insurgency issue in the state.
 
  The Nagaland peace accord was signed in August 2015 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) to end the insurgency in the region.
 
 Earlier this week, the Congress leader had blamed PM Modi's "unilateral decision" as the reason behind the accord facing roadblocks in its implementation.
 
  "Nobody has understood what the Prime Minister had signed, (or) whether he had signed. This is his style. This (Naga accord) is similar to (November 8, 2016) demonetisation and implementation of Goods and Services Tax at midnight," Gandhi told journalists.
 
  "Modi called up then Congress President Sonia Gandhi one evening and told her we have solved the Naga problem and signed an accord. Soniaji called me and told what Modi conveyed to her. She told me to check with the then Congress Chief Ministers of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, and Manipur to find if they were aware of the accord and were consulted by the Prime Minister," Gandhi recalled.
 
  "They (Chief Ministers) called the MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) and were told that the MHA had no idea about the deal. Then they wrote to the Union Home Minister, and he too informed them that he had no idea what exactly the accord was," he said.
 
  Reacting to the crisis in Nagaland, Gandhi said: "The style of functioning of the Prime Minister has led to Nagaland's reaction. It shows a large number of people do not believe in the Prime Minister because he has got credibility problem."
 
  Several Naga groups under the banner of Core Committee of Nagaland Tribal Hoho and Civil Organisations (CCNTCHOC) and political parties have demanded postponement of the state polls to facilitate early resolution to the protracted Naga insurgency issue.
 
  
 
 
 
