Nagpur:   started his journey as a physician three decades ago in Nagpur. With critical care medicine evolving as a super speciality, he transformed into critical care physician and was honoured with European Diploma in Intensive Care Medicine (EDIC) in 2008. He obtained membership of the prestigious Royal College of Physicians of MRCP (UK), making him the only critical care physician from the region who has been honoured with both EDIC and MRCP. He has just returned from UK after serving for six months there as part of National Health Scheme (NHS); this return, marked by his ‘stronger sense of commitment and belonging’ to his city. Excerpts from the interview:

 How would you explain critical care?
 
 Critical care is the most recent of specialties of medicine and is still evolving. To treat a patient with critical illness with multiple organ failure, what is needed is a team of specialized doctors who can work in sync. Critical care physician forms the common link akin to the string in a garland with flowers representing different specialists involved in care. A critical care physician is the central figure around which other specialists rally in the management of critically ill patient.
 
 What led to this initiative of undertaking a six-month contract in the UK?
 
 I am a trained physician, and back then, further sub-specialities were not much developed. I was fortunate to be trained under well-known physician Dr BS Chaubey. In the 90s, critical care started emerging as a sub-speciality. It was imperative to get training in critical care because at times patients get sick (for other reasons) and it’s a question about what to do with them. Since there was no standardized qualification for critical care in India, I acquired the European diploma. Royal College of Physicians in UK is a post graduate qualification in the field of internal medicine. I took up the challenge and cleared the exam, and got an offer from Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust.
 
 Elaborate on your experience of working there.
 
 I took up the job in July 2017, and was serving in the hospital at its acute medical unit. I have a sponsored visa and a permit to work in the UK for three years. I have been used to practice in the Indian health care system. The way NHS works appeared quite impressive to me.. In the UK, health care is sponsored by the government, which provides standardized quality health care to all its citizens irrespective of their status or resources — to the richest of the rich and the poorest of the poor The acute medical unit is designed to look after patients who are acutely unwell with medical disorders — those who are unstable and require more monitoring and close supervision.
 
 What are the contradictions in the health care system in India and UK?
 
 Although the science of medicine is the same, the way it is administered there is a lot different. I never thought that there could be such a huge difference in how the same science is applied at two different places. They work in a precise and systematic manner, based on evidence. They have guidelines and protocols for almost all the disorders so that there is good uniformity in treatment. They have much more resources than us. We are doing a great job. Their system would fail if it is applied here since in a resource-limited situation, we have to carry out the same work with a lot of limitations. They have no limits to the resources. This enables them to work with precision, whereas here we work with approximation. We have no dearth of talent. Here, rich people get preferential treatment while the poor are unlikely to get it. Our treatment is class-dependent, whereas theirs is class independent. Our system puts doctors under more stress, which is not the case there. Under stress, one is more likely to make a mistake. They have tried to make their system free of human error as much as possible. Our system does not ensure this. There, once you’re off duty, you’re off duty. Our system makes you work almost 24 hours.Stress cause more burnouts as well.
 
 What is your opinion on PM Narendra Modi’s efforts towards health care? Can a system similar to NHS be implemented here?
 
 Health care system should be applicable to the most vulnerable. NHS might have its own drawbacks, but it works most efficiently for the most vulnerable. We can find ways to implement the good points of NHS to suit our ground realities. Modi is a wise man, and it is good if he can pick up good points from all the systems that we come across and find a way. We do not have resources to fully implement everything that NHS does. But we can find a way of improving our present situation. For this, health care must be given much more importance. The deteriorating condition of our medical colleges is the failure of our system.
 
 Being a part of health care sector of India for past 30 years, in government hospitals, most patients are not getting what they deserve and what they need. In private sector, majority of the patients get more than what they need. There is no harmony or cohesion between two sectors.
 
 
