If anything unpredictable happens, the thought of life taking a complete U-turn is devastating. Thoughts of uncertainty dominate over life. Emotions of anger, irritation, frustration, bitterness, jealousy and insecurity may surface easily due to unfulfilled desires. Feelings of hopelessness and negativity are common during such challenging times. Yes Dialysis! brings in a sense of hope for life along with many fears attached. The thought of   brings anxiety to many minds even if they have been informed by the doctor ahead of time. The ability to see the brighter side even in adversity is not easy especially when the body is in pain. Many research studies have pointed out that some dialysis patients may have some symptoms of depression, a common problem encountered with dialysis.

 We all have heard the phrase "laughter is the best medicine" so many times that we barely give it a second thought. It is indeed the best way to recover. Laughter is better at curing us than pills. It also relaxes one’s body. Positive attitude and a good sense of humor can go a very long way towards making you feel better, no matter how challenging your health concerns are. Start your day with the most pure and positive thoughts by reading or listening to something which calms your mind. It reduces the secretion of stress hormone. It is a known fact that patients who maintain a positive mental attitude and enjoy laughter respond better to treatment. In 1964, Norman Cousins published Anatomy of an Illness, the case of humor positively affecting disease. It has been evaluated that humor has the power of biologically reversing a painful disease. Read comic books to keep yourself stress free when you are bored with crossword puzzles and watching TV all the time. Use your feelings as a cue to change your thoughts instead of drifting away and indulging in negative self-talk. Remind yourself that you are unique in your own way irrespective of your physical limitations. Be aware of your strengths. Nothing is impossible!
 
 Put all your efforts in nurturing yourself by doing things you enjoy and surround yourself with optimistic people to encourage positive thinking in your life.
 
 
 
 
