For  , who has sung Aalalilo from Karu, the song is almost like a debut — even though she has sung about 25 songs for films already. The Madurai ponnu, who is now made Chennai her home, talks to us about her eventful journey towards becoming a playback singer, the challenge she faced while recording the song, persevering during her initial days, and how singing in reality shows did not really help her. Excerpts: 

 
 
 I was born and raised in Madurai. Nobody in my family is into music, though, now, my sister, Maya S Krishnan, is an actress. When I was in first standard, I took part in a poetry recital competition. I had to recite Bharathiyar’s  . We had a family friend,   (we call her Paapi), a music teacher. She put the song to a tune and asked me to recite it because I was remembering it better that way. That’s was how I got a liking for singing. My dad felt that I have singing talent and wanted Paapi to train me properly. She took me under her wings and taught me a lot, though I was a lousy student — even now, I cannot identify most of the ragas. In my sixth standard, I won gold in a national-level singing competition that had 800 participants. And when I was in Class 11, I bagged gold in a prestigious Carnatic music event held by Sadguru Sangeetha Samaj, which is the Madurai equivalent of the  . Then, I made it to the shortlist of 14 in the Music Academy’s national-level competition. Mine was the only name from south  . That’s when I gained confidence. Post that, I took a wrong decision in life — and did engineering. During those years in Bengaluru, I could hardly do any singing. Then, I got a good job in Chennai, and once I was here, in 2010, I began giving demos to several music directors. Three months into the job, I realised it was not working, and decided to focus on my singing. 
 
 
 Music directors cannot go through every demo that they get. Also, we expect things to happen immediately after we hand over the demo. And many people give up when they have to wait. You have to be in the city, and chase that dream with perseverance to make it come true. For me, nothing happened for the first few months after I quit my job. I was broke and even depressed for a while. But my parents and then-boyfriend (and now-husband) were supportive. I used to have 15-20 pen drives in my handbag and I’d go to the various studios on my scooter and hand over the pen drives to the people there. I started singing everything that came my way — from devotionals to jingles. The money was helpful to meet my rent. I have sung backing vocals for Rahman sir, Ilaiyaraaja sir and Yuvan sir. I even started a very small event management company. I started asking people I knew to let me organise music shows for their events. Slowly, the business picked up and I even got my own shows. I also got a call to be part of   50 — the world tour that sir did.
 
 
 Yes, I did. My first TV appearance was when I was in the third year of college. My dad called me up saying there was this music show featuring SPB sir in which I could participate during the weekends. This was Vaanampaadi on Kalaignar TV. I was in the top six. I also appeared on  , and had a small stint with Super Singer also. That was the time when I hadn’t sung for years, so my voice wasn’t all that good. I don’t even know why I did all that. It was a waste of time — for me.
 
 
 I have actually sung more than 25 songs till date. I honestly do not know if some of them even released or not. Some did, but the credits will be different. Technically, this is my first proper song — and a solo! I used to sing a lot of tracks for Sam CS, who is a friend. He is always looking out for fresh voices. I had gone to the US for a show and Sam called me then to come to the studio. I went after returning to Chennai, and he was working on a tune. When I asked him what film it was for, he said that it is for director Vijay’s Karu. We did the tune, recorded the song, with Madhan Karky’s lyrics, in 30 minutes and sent it to   sir. He liked it and told Sam that he did not want the voice to be changed. I played the song to my mom and sisters and they all cried. But Sam told me that if I didn’t get the final version right, he’d give the song to Shreya Ghoshal! However, the final recording took four hours as Sam was very particular, constantly pushing me to get the right metre. I even got upset after a point questioning myself on why I wasn’t able to get such a beautiful song right. Finally, Sam told me, ‘You are not a mom yet, and when you become one, you’ll understand what these lyrics mean better.’ By then, I’d gotten into a gloomy mood, and recorded the song in that mood. Today, I’m getting so much appreciation for the feel of the song!
 
