NEW DELHI:   chairman and Vice-President M   on Monday rejected the Congress-led opposition’s notice for removal of CJI  , holding that there was no “substantial and verifiable” evidence of wrongdoing, but the cloud of controversy hanging over the   refused to go away, with   announcing that it would challenge the order in the apex court.

 
 “I am of the view that the allegations are neither tenable nor admissible,” Naidu said in his order, adding that “allegations emerging from the present case have a serious tendency of undermining the independence of the judiciary”.
 
 Rejection of the controversial move failed to stanch the lacerating controversy over   Misra in particular and the top rungs of the judiciary in general. Congress, the main force behind the widely criticised move, was unfazed and slammed Naidu’s order as “illegal, ill-advised and hasty”. Announcing that they would challenge the order in the SC, Congress’s   said CJI Misra should not involve himself in the “listing and hearing” petition against Naidu’s order.
 
  
  
 
 Significantly, Congress chief   referred to the January 12 press conference by the four seniormost judges of the SC — an unprecedented development that the party has repeatedly cited to justify its move against the CJI — at a rally he addressed hours after Naidu’s order as part of a “Save the Constitution” campaign.
 
 BJP, however, applauded Naidu and slammed Congress for its “intimidatory tactics”. Party chief Amit Shah launched a scathing attack on the opposition party’s move and called it a “despicable attempt” to weaken the country’s democratic institutions.
 
 
 
 Independent experts like K Parasaran, who served as attorney general in Congress regimes, and others also supported swift rejection of the motion seeking the CJI’s removal. 
 
 However, this failed to faze Congress, which had earlier disregarded the view of the seniormost judge in the SC after the CJI, Justice J Chelameswar, said to be the prime mover behind the January 12 press conference, that removal of a judge was not the solution to the issues facing the judiciary. Naidu based his order on Article 124 (4) of the Constitution which provides for removal of a judge of the SC or HCs on two counts — “proved misbehaviour” and “incapacity”.
 
 Sixty-four MPs belonging to Congress, NCP, CPM, CPI, SP, BSP and IUML had in their notice seeking removal of CJI Misra, levelled allegations of corruption, impropriety and arbitrariness in allocation of cases as grounds.
 
 Naidu, who held consultations with lawyers, jurists, constitutional experts and retried and serving bureaucrats, said the condition “proved misconduct” laid down in the Constitution obliged those levelling charges to furnish proof of their allegations before the process for the removal kicked in. He said the allegations levelled against CJI Misra didn’t meet the threshold as they were non-specific in nature.
 
 Referring to the use of “may have been”, “likely” and “appears to have”, Naidu said in his order, “The members of Parliament who have presented the petition are unsure of their own case. The phrases used by MPs themselves indicate a mere suspicion, a conjecture or an assumption. The same does not constitute proof ‘beyond reasonable doubt’ which is required to make out a case for proved misbehaviour.”
 
 The expressions in question were used in the context of alleged payment of bribes in the medical education scam and antedating of records by the CJI to decide who got to hear that case.
 
 As for the allegation of prima facie evidence of the CJI’s involvement in the conspiracy to pay bribes in the medical scam, Naidu said, “Conversations between third parties with dubious credentials, which have been excessively relied upon, cannot constitute any material evidence against the holder of the office of CJI-.”Rejecting the opposition’s notice, he said, “In the absence of credible and verifiable information placed before me which gives an indication of misbehaviour or incapacity, it would be an inappropriate and irresponsible act to accept statements which have little empirical evidence.”
 
