CHANDIGARH: To help NGOs’ leverage innovation and technologies effortlessly and effectively and to maximise impact and efficiency, an interactive session educating them about solutions was held at the   building on Saturday at the  . Various NGOs from the Tricity and nearby states attended the event.

 The awareness and development-centric forum was organised by ‘LetsEndorse’, a pan-India organisation which is working with over 700 NGOs helping them with over 300 unique solutions and to get in touch with the right kind of corporates to raise appropriate funding to access those solutions. Lets Endorse Partners Action Forum (LEAP) was the name of the seminar. 
 
 The NGOs also helped with accessing proprietary technology needed for impact assessment as well and are directly put in touch with their donor database to provide befitting solutions to each  . 
 
 More than 40 individuals from over 20 different NGOs across the Tricity, Himachal Pradesh, Panjab and Uttarakhand attended the discussion raising concerns about facing difficulty in raising funds from corporates. They complained about finding it difficult to receive money through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy of the corporates and finding it confusing to keep in touch with the corporates about the nature of funding required.
 
 Speaking about the NGOs in the Tricity and Panjab, Varun Kashyap, the speaker and the co-founder of LetsEndorse pointed out that most of the NGOs here are technologically stunted and not online. “The unique pattern that I observed about NGOs in Panjab and this region is that most of them are not online. Apart from that, they are really few as well. Without adoption of technology, understanding where these NGOs are based is really difficult,” he said.
 
 A number of representatives from NGOs like  , Child Welfare Council, Punjab, Open Eyes Foundation among others attended the event.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Vinod Chaddha, president, National Association for the Blind (Chandigarh and Panjab branch) said, “Very honestly, we were not conducting   exercises on a large scale and we were not that   too. We will soon be getting a land on lease from Panjab government at Mullanpur side and funds will be greatly needed thereafter. But this session has made us realise that we need to revise our methods of fundraising.”
 
 Similarly, Pritam Sandhu, secretary, Child Welfare Council, Punjab said, “All the NGOs along with ours face a common challenge of lack of funds, because we have so many innovative projects for children. Till now, it has been incredibly difficult to obtain money from corporates through CSR. But this session and what they are offering seems like a new alternative.” 
 
 
