CHENNAI: A helpline, a rescue van and a roof sheltering victims of abuse.   government is finalising modalities to set up an emergency network for   who are victims of abuse or dowry harassment. 

 Five years after the Union government set up the   Fund for various initiatives by states to ensure the safety and security of women, the Tamil Nadu government submitted its first set of proposals earlier this month. 
 
 In consultation with the police, higher education, social welfare and transport departments, the government submitted a report with six proposals, including installing   cameras in   buses, outside IT offices and state universities, estimated to cost around Rs 65 crore.
 
 As it waits for a committee under the women and child development ministry to give the go-ahead, the state government is using its own funds to execute one of the proposals – a suicide prevention helpline for women. “We will be doing this by reviving the 181 toll-free phoneline for women to avoid duplication,” said K Manivasan, principal secretary, Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department that will oversee the implementation of these proposals once approved. The 181 helpline is a Central initiative that was in the state’s back-burner for close to three years owing to the political upheaval in the state.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Sources in the social welfare department said they are in the “final stages” of setting up the helpline in synchronization with 104 – a medical helpline operated by the health department along with GVK EMRI, a private emergency service. “They already have the infrastructure. We have sought for two phone connections that will be manned by counsellors from the social welfare department,” said Amuthavalli V, Director Social Welfare. Sources in the department say it will be launched in a month’s time. 
 
 Women can call for issues related to sexual harassment, trafficking, stalking, domestic violence or dowry harassment. The 24-hour helpline will also provide information related to various women’s welfare schemes offered by the state.
 
 Amuthavalli said her department had also proposed 42 rescue vans for women who call the 181 helpline. She said although there are ambulances for medical emergencies, women who flee from their houses or are turned out, often with their children, had no support system. 
 
 “These vehicles will take them to the one-stop crisis center we run in Tambaram for women,” she said, adding that four more such facilities will come up in the city. 
 
 “These are women who have endured years of torture and harassment because they didn’t have an alternate option,” said the official. “We want them to know they now have an ear to listen to their problems and a place to go to.” The government, another senior official said, was also mulling the option of inviting private players to run the rescue services. 
 
 In every budget since 2013, the Centre has allocated Rs 1,000 crore towards the Nirbhaya fund — for schemes to ensure the safety and security of women. But the allocation remained unspent till 2016. Under the fund, the state has access to capital to set up control rooms to monitor public transport in cities with a population of more than a million. An audit report released last year by the Comptroller and Auditor General said not only did Tamil Nadu fail to utilize the fund, it had “not even sent its views to the Centre", the primary requirement to make effective use of the money.
 
 
 
  of Chennai-based Crime Prevention and Victim Care, an organisation that works with victims of domestic abuse, said women in distress usually reach out for external help when all else has failed. “A helpline is their last resort. The government’s role should not stop there. Constant counselling is required at every stage of their healing,” she said. 
 
 Lawyer Sudha Ramalingam said the state should consider integrating all helplines with 100 as there were “too many” helplines for the public to remember. 
 
 
 
 
 The police department proposed forming a dedicated response system for women with patrol vehicles and CCTVs outside companies where a large number of women work late night. "We will be conducting a study in Chennai to map crime-prone zones, especially where women are targeted more," said a senior police officer.
 
 
 
 The transport department submitted a proposal to install CCTV cameras in a few MTC buses on pilot basis. “We identified a few buses and routes. We will expand it once the result of this is studied,” said transport secretary P W C Davidar.
 
 Public transport in cities is routine haunt for stalkers and gropers. In 2017, Wo+Men to Advocate their Rights and Equality (AWARE), a Chennai-based NGO, conducted a survey among 1,400 people about their travel experiences in Chennai. Half of the respondents said that they had been sexually harassed while using public transport in the city. The harassment ranged from verbal (sexual comments, noises, cat-calling), to physical (deliberate touching, leaning/rubbing against, cornering, groping, or pinching), to even visual (sexual looks or gestures).
 
 
 
 Sunil Paliwal, principal secretary, higher education department, said he had sought CCTV cameras, especially outside hostels, in the 13 universities that come under his department. “Many of our campuses have a thick vegetation too. We want our women students to feel safe to walk out any time of the night,” he said, adding that the cameras would help deter other crimes too. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
