NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in outer Delhi’s   village. The incident comes   days after the girl’s boyfriend,  , killed himself after his marriage proposal was allegedly rejected by the girl’s father.

 According to the police, the victim was identified as   and an inquest under Section 174 of the CrPC has been initiated in the case. Her body was sent in for autopsy to ascertain the exact cause of death.
 
 Alka’s father found her hanging by the ceiling fan on Sunday morning. A student of Class XII in a government school, Alka left a suicide note, which was confiscated by the police for further investigation.
 
 “By the time we got her down, she had lost consciousness,” the victim’s brother, Gautam, said, adding that her sister had also attempted suicide on the day Akash (26) had killed himself. He used to work as a DJ.
 
 Akash, too, had left a suicide note where he mentioned that nobody was responsible for his death. He had shifted to the same neighbourhood as Alka two years ago and had since then befriended her.
 
 Locals said that the couple had decided to marry but their families were not supportive of the idea. However, after Alka’s suicide, both families blamed each other for not accepting the proposal.
 
 “We were okay with the relationship but the boy’s family didn’t agree to it,” Alka’s mother told cops. However, contradicting the claims, Akash’s father Sukhram said that he had agreed to the proposal since his son was insistent on marrying Alka.
 
 “I approached the girl’s father but he refused the proposal and said he would kill my son and then shoot his daughter as well. On Monday night, I tried to convince my son to forget about Alka. Later, they both spoke to each other on the phone and my son killed himself,” Sukhram said, adding that his son was roughed up by the girl’s father and brother previously when he tried to meet her.
 
 The suicide note has been sent in for forensic examination to ascertain its authenticity. Cops are also probing the sequence of events leading up to the suicide. 
 
 The couple’s last conversation is also being scanned for more information. DCP (Rohini) Rajneesh Gupta was unavailable for comments.
 
 
