Tiruvannamalai: Hundreds of trees along the   are facing an inevitable death as the state highways department has failed to adhere to the rules laid down by the National Green Tribunal ( ) to safeguard the premises.

 The authorities from the department have covered the area around the trees with concrete, which eventually leads to   of the species and slow, but certain death of the centuries-old tamarind and other tree species along the 14-km stretch .
 
 The highways department had covered areas around the trees on either side of the Girivalam path, particularly the stretch of Sonanadhi forest area while taking up work under the Rs 65 crore Girivalam path widening project, a year ago. The authorities had also cut down several trees for the project. However, it was halted following growing protest from environmentalists, social activities and youngsters, against the felling of trees.
 
 The NGT took the issue suo motu and constituted a two-member committee, comprising retired Judge J A K Sampath Kumar and former principal chief conservator of forest T Sekar, to conduct field inspections.
 
 Based on the reports submitted by the committee after two field inspections, the NGT passed a final order directing the district administration and the highways department not to fell trees, maintain 2.5 metre pavements on either side of the Chengam Road, lay 2 metre paver block pavements on the hillside from Chengam-Girivalam Road junction upto Anna Arch.
 
 It also stated that the concrete around the trees should be removed for 1 metre radius around the tree trees. The order was passed on May 31 last year. “It is more than seven months since the NGT passed its final order. But the authorities fail to adhere to the order that also spoke about preserving the bio-diversity and mass plantation to restore the lost green cover,” said an activist.
 
 The trees for a stretch of nearly 300 metres along Griivalam path (Sonanadhi Reserve forest) are covered with concrete. “It looks like people are strangulating, squeezing the life out of each and every tree. The officials did it intentionally to get rid of the trees ,” he added.
 
 Several trees, covered with concrete or debris, have withered. “If the concrete and debris around the trees not removed at the earliest, the stretch will lose its green cover,” said another.
 
 Nearly 200 trees needed proper care. Of them, 70 to 80 trees are completely enclosed with cement. They would die soon, if the officials did not act as per the NGT order, yet another activist said.
 
 Officials shrugged off the issue saying they would restore earth around the trees at the end of the project, alleged the activists, and added by the time they complete the project, half of the trees would wither away.
 
 Senior official in highways department said they have taken up the work for 2.6 km on Girivalam path (Kanchi Road stretch) and they have been leaving 1 metre space around the trees. Once the work is completed, they would take up works in other areas and remove the concrete around the trees.
 
 
