Vijayawada: Works for Muktyala – Vijayawada inland waterway development are going on at a brisk pace. The project was drawn up under National Inland Waterway-4 (NIW) project and Union minister for transport and shipping, Nitin Gadkari laid tits foundation stone around three months back.

 The NIW-4 project was intended to develop inland   from Kakinada to Pondicherry through Buckingham Canal. As part of the project, a separate channel is being developed from Muktyala to Vijayawada in the first phase. The Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) formed a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) along with the state government to complete the project on priority basis.
 
 Dredging works have already started to come up with a separate channel in Krishna river to facilitate the movement of large vessels carrying vessels. The route is a priority for the state government as the raw material transportation would become cheaper for the capital construction.
 
 As the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) is planning to launch the construction of capital buildings from June 2018, the Muktyala – Vijayawada waterway that also connects Harichandrapuram on the other side of the river bank would reduce the transportation cost by nearly five times as compared to road transportation.
 
 The waterway transportation would only cost Rs 1 to transport 1 tonne of material over one kilo metre distance. The same would cost Rs 5.75 by road and Rs 1.99 by rail. As many cement factories are located near Muktyala, the CRDA is planning to use inland waterway to reduce transportation cost of cement and other raw materials. The distance between Ibrahimpatnam to Harichandrapuram is only 20 km through inland waterway, while the road way is more than 45km- now the only connection is the Prakasam barrage to reach the capital area.
 
 Any raw material that comes from the north side of Krishna river can be transported easily once the project gets over. As of now, the dredging has been completed between Ibrahimpatnam and Harichandrapuram. Cargo vessels can ferry between the two banks once the floating terminals are completed.
 
 The works were divided into two packages. One package covers from Harichandrapuram to Chamarru and the other package goes from Chamarru to Muktyala. Sources in IWAI said that the project is well on track and likely to finish within the stipulated 15 months.
 
 
