MUMBAI: The   has come up with a Rs 558-crore five-year plan to reclaim the land on which the Mulund dumping ground exists. The plan comprises breaking down the 7,000 million-ton mountain of waste that has accumulated at the dump over the decades by using   of solid waste. 

 This will possibly be the country’s largest such exercise to clear a large dumping ground. If the project goes as per plan, the civic authority will be able to add 60 acres of land to space-starved Mumbai. The purpose of the project is also to safely capture the methane trapped in organic waste at the dump and use it to generate energy.
  
  
 Biomining makes use of micro-organisms to extract metals from soil and rocky substance and has been in use especially in Chile for mining copper from low-yield ores. It is also used on a much smaller scale for waste processing in Bangalore, Trimbakeshwar and Nandurbar. Internationally, apart from Chile, it is prominently used in South Korea, Germany and the US.
 
 “The Mulund issue was studied by a committee consisting of an IIT professor and NEERI’s director, along with an expert in the field of public-private partnerships (PPPs),” said additional municipal commissioner  . “The IIT expert had the dump bored to know the height of the garbage pile. After examining all the bids, we selected the lowest which will adopt biomining as a technique.”
 
 The BMC has finalised a contractor for the work at the Mulund dump after two failed attempts. But the reclamation process is expected to take five years. The freed-up land is expected to be used primarily for public amenities. “It will help shore up property prices in the surrounding area,” said a civic officer.
 
 The contractor will get the rights to sell the energy and gas that will be generated from the dumping ground’s organic waste. The firm will also be allowed to sell recycled products like brick blocks, which will be made from debris and plastic waste. The bricks can be used for construction or for landfills. A senior BMC official said that the plan will soon be placed before the civic standing committee, which comprises corporators. After the committee’s approval, which is mandatory under law, the work order will be issued.
 
 Mumbai generates 7,100 tons of waste a day, which is dumped at three grounds within the city. Most of the garbage goes to Deonar and Kanjurmarg. Mulund still gets a portion of the garbage, though its closure had been decided on years ago.
 
 “We have shortlisted the lowest bidder for the work,” said additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Mukherjee. Prakash Constrowell quoted Rs 558 crore, 11 % less than the estimated cost of Rs 630 crore. The firm is engaged in similar work in Nashik.
 
 “This is for the first time that biomining is being used at such a large scale (to treat garbage) anywhere in the world,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Project: To reclaim Mulund dumping ground by removing garbage mountain and use methane trapped in organic waste to generate energy
 
 Method: Biomining
 
 Cost: Rs 558 crore
 
 Deadline: Five years
 
 Area to be freed up: 60 acres
 
 
