KOLKATA: In a bid to ensure safety for pedestrians, the police have come with a plan that might compromise the city’s speed a bit but rein in crashes, especially those involving people crossing roads. Under the new strategy, all the traffic lights at important intersections will turn red for a few minutes to let pedestrians walk across the road safely, without having to navigate through vehicles coming from the “green-light” side.

 
 The plan, flagged off as an experiment, is being implemented at two big crossings, one at   in north and the other at Park Street-JL Nehru intersection in central. The police will gauge the response and the success of the plan and then, implement it at other places. If everything goes well, the   crossing will be the next on the traffic police list.
 
 
  
 
  “The concept is simple. At present, we usually keep one flank of a road open even as we stop traffic on the other flank to help motorists cross important intersections smoothly. But this does not allow pedestrians enough time to walk across. Often, by the time they reach halfway through the road, lights for the opposite side turns green and the pedestrians are left to fend for themselves in the sea of cars rushing in. For those not familiar with the crossings, the job becomes tougher. They have to wait and understand the signalling system before deciding on the opportune moment to cross the road,” said a top IPS officer at Lalbazar. “We now propose to stop vehicles at all ends for 120 seconds to allow pedestrians enough time to cross over without hindrance. This will, hopefully, also stop citizens from throwing caution to the winds and try to jaywalk, without waiting for the lights to change.” Police said timers would be used, but the   control room would keep the timing flexible, depending on vehicular as well as pedestrian pressure.
 
 DC (Traffic)   said the trial run seemed to work as pedestrians were waiting for all the lights to turn red before crossing. “We had wanted foot-overbridges at over 70 crossings as permanent solution. But until the proposal gets ago-ahead, we will use this ‘allred’ traffic signal, along with the other initiatives we have taken, for safety of pedestrians. This plan has been taken up, given that of the 329 road fatalities in the city last year, 150-odd ones involved pedestrians,” said an officer. Among the other initiatives are boom barriers, drop gates and deployment of 700 civic volunteers, besides the introduction of refuge islands. Also called a pedestrian refuge or a pedestrian island, it is mostly found in the centre of a road—particularly which has no divider—to regulate the flow of traffic at a junction. This improves the amenity for pedestrians trying to cross busy streets, as they are much more likely to find two small gaps in traffic rather than one situation in which gaps for both directions coincide.
 
 These initiatives were taken up by the traffic police after researchers from  , Amit   and  , concluded in their paper that pedestrians were the biggest victims. “They are even in danger at zebra crossings, particularly from motorists. The increasing vulnerability of pedestrians to road traffic accidents is largely due to the conflicts between pedestrian and vehicles, excess speed, careless driving and poor road visibility,” the paper stated.
 
