KOLKATA:   MP from Bengal   kicked off a storm in state party circles on Thursday. Ganguly used her tweeter handle to vent out her anger against the party's internal communication mechanism and   state president Dilip Ghosh in particular whom she cannot contact, even though she could talk to Prime Minister   and party president Amit Shah. Ganguly, however, deleted her tweets later. 

 It was an open secret that Ganguly was not in the best of terms with state party president Dilip Ghosh. It came out in the open the way the MP tweeted her messages. Angry with the state BJP leaders who didn't even bother to respond to the SOS sent by a BJP activist through the party's internal communication channel, Roopa tweeted: "Who is your media in charge in   Dilip da...kindly let me know. And kindly ask him/her to call me tomorrow morning around 10 am," she wrote. She added that nobody replies at the core committee message group and she is unable to message Ghosh as "its blocked as well".
 
 So far, so good. But Roopa took a step forward to write that she could message Modiji (Narendra Modi) and   (Amit Shah), but is barred from messaging her state party president. She alleged that Ghosh abused her in public.
 
 According to BJP insiders, Roopa was angry over the delay in helping a party worker from Bankura who needed support to hospitalise his pregnant wife. The message had been doing the rounds since Tuesday morning among BJP workers, but nobody came forward to help.
 
 Although Roopa claimed that she has tried to contact senior party functionaries, none of her tweets had tagged "BJP for Bengal" twitter handle.
 
 Ghosh did not react to the tweets immediately. The next morning a party functionary had called her up to explain that her account was never blocked. "We are in very good terms with each other and she had come to meet me when I was hospitalised. It is not true that I don't pick up her calls or have blocked her. There are times when I am in a meeting and try to call back everyone who contacted me," Ghosh said.
 
 
