Surat: The Diamond City of Surat shares a strong connection with Israel when it comes to the sparkling diamonds. In the 80’s, the crown of diamond polishing was with Israel. But, fierce competition from Surat’s skilled workforce, with its significantly lower labour costs and its fast and easy adaptation to new technology, gobbled up a significant chunk of the Israeli business. 

 Having nearly one skilled workforce in its diamond manufacturing sector and equipped with world-class diamond cutting and polishing technology, India, especially Surat, is the world’s largest manufacturing centre for cut and polished diamonds, contributing 60 per cent of the world’s supply in terms of value and 85 per cent in terms of volume. 
 
 Surat completely took over the production of smaller, brilliant cut diamonds (known in the trade as Melee diamonds), considered the bread and butter of the Israeli diamond industry. In 2001, diamonds produced in Israel represented some 60 per cent of the country’s total exports of polished diamonds. By 2005, local production had fallen to around 41 per cent of total polished exports, declining even further to just 27.5 per cent in 2010.
 
 At present, the net polished diamond export from Israel is pegged at $1.30 billion, whereas the annual export of polished diamonds from India is pegged at $22 billion in 2016-17.
 
 Israel’s polishing industry was set up in the late 1930s when Jewish diamantaires, who emigrated from Belgium with their polishing wheels, set up an industry in what was then Palestine under the British mandate. 
 
 In his book from Mine to Mistress, industry analyst Chaim Even-Zohar writes that in 1939 there were only four diamond cutting plants in Palestine with a total of 197 workers. These polishers were joined in the 1940s by diamantaires from Belgium and Holland, who fled the German occupation. By 1942, the industry had expanded to encompass 33 diamond factories employing 3,750 workers.
 
 The number of local employees rose significantly over the years as local production boomed. At its peak, in the 1980s and 1990s, the Israeli diamond manufacturing industry employed between 25,000 and 35,000 expert workers in the cities of Ramat Gan, Netanya and Bnei Brak. 
 
 Today, however, the workforce totals no more than 500 to 1,000, and not all of them work full time, according to Martin Rapaport, an industry expert and founder of the Rapaport Diamond Report, a baseline for the pricing of wholesale polished diamonds.
 
 The Israel-based Sarine Technologies, manufacturer of state-of-the-art diamond equipment, has opened its headquarters in Surat following the massive use of its technology by the diamantaires in Surat.
 
 “Sarine has over the last 30 years revolutionized the way diamond manufacturing has evolved and has played a major part in enabling the Indian diamond industry to become what it is today. Over the years, we have introduced many different technologies that were developed in Israel and have integrated them into the manufacturing processes adding significant value to the diamond industry in India,” CEO of Sarine Technologies David Block said.
 
 Surat is the leader in the production of Melee diamonds — the near gem quality diamonds used in studding the rings, watches, pendants etc. Most of the leading diamond companies have been doing job work for the big diamond companies in Israel.
 
 Regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) Dinesh Navadiya said, “Israel is the world’s leading rough diamond trading centre for fancy shapes. Most of the diamantaires visit Israel for purchasing roughs in auctions. When it comes to manufacturing, Israel is outsourcing the polishing work to Surat. Even the solitaries and big sized stones, once cut and polished in Surat, are cut and polished in India.”
 
 
