PATIALA: The   ( ) is all set to clean village ponds in Punjab using the Seechewal model. The board has decided to start this initiative in around 300 villages of Punjab, where the ponds will be cleaned and its water can be used for irrigation purposes.

 At present, the ponds in almost all villages have become polluted as the sewage is also being drained into these. Besides, some ponds in villages with small or large scale industries are also witnessing the inflow of effluents. The PPCB wants to set an example by cleaning some ponds so that further cleaning process may be adopted by panchayats. The Seechewal model of cleaning has been adopted recently by several states to clean rivers and ponds. Noted environmentalist Balbir Singh is credited with rejuvenation of the 160-km-long Kali Bein rivulet, which originates in Hoshiarpur and traverses the Doaba region to join the Sutlej-Beas confluence near Harike wetland. Besides beautification of river banks with trees, bathing ghats and roads, Seechewal’s environmental warriors cleared the hyacinth and silt from the entire river bed.
 
 In August 2013, former president A P J Abdul Kalam had cited Seechewal model to rejuvenate and revive Vishwamitri while releasing a project proposal of ‘Vaho Vishwamitri Abhiyaan’ prepared by the   and the Community Science Centre at a function here.
 
 For this act of cleaning ponds in around 300 villages of Punjab, funds will be spent by the panchayats initially while some funds from the department of rural development of both central and state governments will also be chipped in for the cleaning process. “There are over 145 blocks in the state and we have decided to select two villages from each block that will be cleaned. We have adopted the ‘Seechewal model of cleaning’ to clean the ponds. We are selecting the villages where the panchayats have funds and are ready to welcome this project. We can also seek the support of NRIs, if required. For the cleaning of ponds the utilization of MNREGA scheme will also be done.”
 
 Under the model, around four small wells will be constructed, where water will be treated by different methods before it is drained into the village pond. The 5X5 feet wells will clean the water at different stages and with the help of meshes the water will allowed to be drained into the ponds. After the hard material, including plastic and others, will be removed, the water drained into the pond will be cleaned by the aerobic and bacterial activity. 
 
 
