Residents in the city woke up to a smoggy morning on Saturday, with Bhogi celebrations being marked by the burning of old belongings and scrap.

 From 4am to 11am, there was a spike in PM2.5 levels much beyond the safe limit of 200, as per data from the National Air Quality Index measured at three monitoring stations — Alandur bus depot, Manali and IIT Madras. The level of particulate matter with a radius less than 2.5 micrometres (PM2.5) touched 500 in Manali and crossed 300 near Alandur during this period.
 
 The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) monitored the Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM) before and after Bhogi in all the 15 zones in the city, and found a higher value of PM10 (particulate matter with diameters of 10 micrometres or less) in at least 13 zones, when compared with the values recorded last year.
 
 Except in Meenambakkam and Sholinganallur, all the remaining zones saw an increase in PM10 levels over last year’s values.
 
 In several zones, the PM10 levels spiked manifold – for instance in  , from 56 (before Bhogi) to 204. A similar spike was recorded in zones like Manali, Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Ambattur.
 
 PM2.5 is a type of PM10 but is much more harmful to those inhaling it as it is composed of smaller particles. PM2.5 levels above 200 indicate poor air quality which can cause breathing difficulties on prolonged exposure.
 
 On further increase beyond 300, it can cause respiratory illness upon prolonged exposure and levels from 401 to 500 mark severe air quality that could affect even healthy people without heart and lung problems.
 
 Doctors, however, cautioned the public not to panic.
 
 “As the spike is for a short period of time, healthy people may not see an immediate effect. Those with respiratory problems should avoid such smoke and take their medication. People can avoid the smoke to a certain extent but not totally,” said Dr Prasanna K Thomas.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The fog and thick smoke that wrapped the city due to burning of substances on the occassion of Bhogi, claimed the life of a mini-lorry driver near   near Tiruvallur, early on Saturday.
 
 The driver, Michael, 42, collided head on with a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus plying from Tirupati to Chennai. Police said the accident happened at Kanagavalli Puram near Kanagamma Chathiram, when Michael was driving to a scrap iron merchant shop in Kanagamma Chathiram from Tiruvallur.
 
 The victim was crushed in the impact. Some of the passengers in the bus also suffered minor injuries.
 
 Inquiries revealed that
 
 Michael failed to see the road, as the area was blanketed in dense smog. Police have registered a case under the IPC Section 304(a) (death caused due to negligence driving) against the bus driver.
 
 In another accident reported on Saturday morning at Pakkam, near   on Chennai-Tiruchi National highway, three cars, one van and one mini-lorry collided one after the other due to smog. In this multiple collision, at least nine people including eight women travelling in the cars and van were injured.
 
 The injured people were treated as out-patients at the government hospital in Madurantakam. The accident occurred in spite of the road users driving with their head lights on, police said. Police have registered a case.
 
