LUDHIANA: Even as cops are on the trail of two accused in their early 20s, whom they suspect to be involved in the killing of 22-year-old   of Hathoor village, deceased's family members on Wednesday alleged involvement of a relative in the murder.

 The family that has kept the chopped body parts, believed to be of Gurpreet, in a wooden box and has refused to cremate the remains, however decided to postpone the protest for a day, after two senior police officials visited their house and assured a thorough probe.
 
 The police meanwhile sent the samples of remains for DNA test to the CFSL to substantiate the claims that the body belonged to Gurpreet, a student of diploma computer.
 
 The badly mutilated body was recovered from   village in Jalandhar on January 9. Gurpreet had gone missing on December 30.
 
 "Police officers came to our place on Wednesday and assured us to take action in a few days. We have delayed the hunger strike outside police station for now," said deceased's father  .
 
 Raising doubts over the police probe that has named two accused in the case, he added, "We suspect the role of my sister's son-in-law in the killing. He never got along with us and harboured grudges against my son. Even on the day my son's body was recovered, he had abused us," he said.
 
 Claiming that the family was under pressure from the police to cremate the body, he mentioned, "Come what may we will not cremate till the cops nab the real culprits of my son." On Wednesday, DSP   and DSP   met the family members and gave them assurance that the killers would be nabbed soon.
 
 "The DSPs have assured the family that   police will get the case from Ludhiana police and carry out a thorough probe into the matter. Although the family has postponed the hunger strike for now, many villagers are in favour of going ahead with the protest to pressurize cops for a quick and unbiased probe into the matter," said a villager. 
 
 Cops meanwhile suspected that the two accused involved into the killing committed the crime as the deceased had objectionable pictures of the sister of one of the accused. According to police, on December 30, the accused called Gurpreet Singh near the Ludhiana bus stand with pictures after which the youth had gone missing.
 
 
