CHENNAI: Victims of Sunday’s twin chain snatching incidents in Chennai were lucky to escape with injuries— such robberies can be fatal. But Chennai police register only regular theft and robbery cases against the culprits, sparing them of graver charges such as  . This, coupled with the fact that theft case suspects are given bail easily by courts, has emboldened young offenders to choose chain and mobile phone snatchings over other crimes.

 In some of these cases of snatching, the victims are disabled or even killed while resisting the snatchers.
 
 In the   and Menaka cases, Kunrathur police and   CMBT police have registered cases under IPC Section 379 (punishment for theft) and later altered it to Section 397 (robbery) and 392 (punishement for robbery). While theft is punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine or both, robbery is punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years along with the possibility of a fine. And for Section 307 (attempt to murder), the   extends to ten years.
 
 To keep chain-snatchers off the road longer, two years ago police started booking them for robbery instead of theft. “We decided to impose Section 397 as the muggers can cause grievous injury or death while committing robbery or dacoity,” said a police officer. However, the officer said no chain snatcher has been convicted for so long.
 
 Looking at the cruelty they inflict on the victims, police should include attempt to murder, says advocate M Shreedhar of Madras high court. “Its like rebirth for many victims. Police should include attempt to murder case on the robbers, apart from slapping robbery charges. The perpetrators should be forced to remain in prison undergoing  ,” he said.
 
 Filing a watertight chargesheet is also important. “Police can file the chargesheet even in ten days, but that is not happening here as they struggle to prove the case against the suspect and often produce no supporting documents. They should help speed up the trial and ensure the snatchers are not bailed out easily,” said the lawyer.
 
 
