 Qureshi’s first appearance at   happened six years ago, when she made her acting debut with 'Gangs of Wasseypur'. The film was screened as part of the Directors’ Fortnight section at the prestigious festival. This time around, Huma visited Cannes as part of the Government of India’s contingent of artistes, who were there to talk about independent cinema. BT caught up with the actress and got her to talk about her recent sojourn to the French Riviera, fashion, films and the #MeToo campaign. Excerpts…

 
 We barely had two weeks to put it all together. I was new to the red carpet game and didn’t want to compete with anyone. Some of my Indian designer friends went out of their way to make some exquisite clothes for me. It was very confusing, because people were giving my team all sorts of advice, but eventually, we followed our instinct. I completely trusted my team’s vision. Fashion is definitely important, but my aim was to enjoy the festival. I think that reflects in the pictures, too.
 
 
 
 We are yet to be as open as Hollywood actresses in terms of addressing sexual harassment at workplace. But, I do hope that changes. The battle against sexual harassment has to be fought both by men and women. A #MeToo moment is welcome, but I think women fear backlash in our society so much that they would rather not come out. We must create space and security for women to speak out against sexual crimes.
 
 
 Cannes is a mix of films and fashion. It gives filmmakers from across the world an opportunity to showcase their artistic brilliance. I hope there are more film festivals like this, not just in other parts of the world, but also in India. I didn’t get a chance to watch too many films, but I watched ' '. I love Nandita Das as an actor, and I knew that she would make an excellent film. 'Manto’s story is relevant even today. I also met Rima Das, who has made 'Village Rockstars' (Won this year’s National Award in the Best Feature Film category). I missed Asghar Farhadi’s 'Everybody Knows', which I was keen on watching.
 
 
 Working with Rajini sir is a dream come true for any actor; it was a humbling and learning experience. Not only is he immensely talented and professional, but also a warm person. Learning Tamil was challenging, but the team was supportive and helped me a great deal. I would converse with them in Tamil and that made it easier to pick up the language.
 
