NEW DELHI: The fate of the instant   bill remained uncertain with the government and opposition in the   again sparring over whether or not the legislation could be referred to a select committee of the House. While the government had listed the bill at the second place, after a GST amendment bill, the opposition insisted that the triple talaq bill deadlock be resolved first through voting. 

 Leader of the House Arun Jaitley continued to argue that motions moved by the opposition for sending it to a select committee were invalid. With the opposition not agreeing to discuss any other bill before the issue was sorted, the House had to be adjourned for the day. Citing a ruling from the 1950’s, Jaitley said a parliamentary panel has to represent the character of the House and be a “microcosm of the House”. 
 
 He said those who opposed a bill substantially or in principle as was the case with parties seeking removal of the clause criminalising instant divorce, should not be represented on the panel. The work of a select committee is to improve a bill and “saboteurs” cannot be a part of the panel and as such disqualified to be a part of it. 
 
 In response to the opposition, deputy chairman   pleaded helplessness, saying that the listing of business was the government’s priority. There is only one day remaining for the winter session and the two sides remain at loggerheads. Only an agreement to send it to a select committee, perhaps without much discussion, can resolve the situation.   leader Anand Sharma demanded that under Rule 131, an unfinished business had to be finished first. 
 
 Kurien did not agree with Jaitley’s objections saying the two motions had been allowed by the Chairman and he had no powers to change the decision. Jaitley raised questions over the validity of the two motions for select committee saying the statutory requirement of 24 hours’ advance notice was not given and the proposed committee is not representative in character. 
 
 Going by the mood in the House, any breakthrough seems a difficult proposition. Sharma responded by saying even when he had moved the resolution on Wednesday he had said in writing that the names of NDA MPs could be included in the proposed panel.
 
 Though stalemate continued in the Rajya Sabha over the talaq bill, BJP members feel they had succeeded in their bid to “expose” Congress’s insensitivity towards rights and welfare of Muslim women as they had done 32 years back in the Shah Bano case. 
 
 “The vote bank politics has overtaken Congress but vote-bank has its limitations. Congress had suffered after Shah Bano case as they have been losing election after election. But they have not become wiser.. I only hope they will,” said law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. He accused Congress of aligning with regional parties to stall the bill.
 
  
  
 
 
 
