Ludhiana: Fearing electoral malpractices like booth capturing in the upcoming MC polls, the leaders of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will be seen camping in the city till February 24. Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Khaira claimed they will stay in the city to ensure fair elections. The MLAs will keep visiting the city and would also participate in public meetings, which are being organised by the candidates of both parties (AAP- Lok Insaf Party are fighting the election as alliance) in various wards.

 Khaira, who attended public meetings and road shows organised by many candidates in the city, raised the concern that the ruling party can make use of the government machinery to register victory in the election. Therefore, he said, their entire leadership will stay put in the city till the voting process gets over on February 24. He said MLAs from various cities will seek votes in favour of AAP and LIP candidates during these days.
 
 Meanwhile, the other parties are not relying on their state-level leaders for campaigning. Most of the party leaders of SAD, BJP and Congress claim it’s a local election so there is no requirement of the presence of state-level leaders. The BJP district president Ravinder Arora said MC election is more of a local affair therefore local leadership is worthy enough to handle the campaigning. Even then some of their leaders have visited the city and interacted with party workers and public.
 
 District president of SAD (urban) Ranjit Dhillon said state leaders wanted to campaign in the city. Dhillon said SAD leader Bikram Majithia was ready to come but they told him that campaigning was well on track and local leaders can take care of MC polls.
 
 In the case of Congress, most of the campaigning burden has been taken care by local MP Ravneet Bittu and four MLAs. These leaders are actively participating in public meetings. Sources in Congress revealed through these MC polls Bittu is eyeing the 2019 parliament election and cementing his position.
 
 
