Ever since it was announced, there has been a lot of excitement around the Ajay Devgn-Ileana D’Cruz-starrer, ‘Raid’. The movie, set in the 80s Uttar Pradesh, revolves around the biggest income tax (IT)   India has ever witnessed. The fact that the film is based on a real incident has intrigued moviegoers, thus making it one of the most anticipated releases of the year. 

 Ajay plays Amay Patnaik, a fearless IT officer, who takes on the most powerful man in Lucknow, Tauji ( ). The on-screen clash between the two actors is one of the main highlights of the movie. It also pays a silent tribute to the better halves of IT officers through Malini Patnaik (Ileana), Amay’s wife. A brave woman, she becomes his pillar of strength when he faces threats and challenges. 
 
 With the trailer receiving a good response from the audience, the makers are optimistic that the film will be equally well-received. 
 
 Director Raj Kumar Gupta says, “It was a huge challenge to tell a story about a real IT raid, which has never been told before. No reference was available, but I have tried my best to narrate it in a realistic and entertaining manner. The film is about human nature and situations — greed, corruption, politics at work, politics within family and above all, the spirit to fight against all odds.” 
 
 Abhishek Pathak, Producer and Managing Director, Panorama Studios, adds, “Our aim is to make movies with powerful stories that are inspiring. I am sure ‘Raid’ will offer an interesting and memorable experience.”
 
 Producer Bhushan Kumar, Chairman and Managing Director of T-series, sums it up, saying, “When Kumarji (Raj Kumar Gupta) narrated the story in one line, I immediately connected to it. I am sure that people will like the film’s realistic treatment. Working with a talented actor like Ajay (Devgn) has been a tremendous pleasure and we are committed to doing more work together.” 
 
 ‘Raid’, a Panorama Studios production presented by Gulshan Kumar and T-Series, and produced by Bhushan Kumar, Krishan Kumar, Kumar Mangat Pathak and Abhishek Pathak, releases today.
 
 
 
 
