Chethan.Kumar  Bengaluru: Astronomers scoff at the term, but millions of viewers in India and around the world will not be too bothered as they take in the sight of a relatively rare phenomenon — a blood moon — on January 31. The earth’s satellite will appear a deep red during a total lunar eclipse on that day and viewers will be treated to the spectacle provided the skies are clear. Astronomers, however, say the moon appears red during all eclipses. Only the shade differs. If there is anything spectacular about the blood moon, they say, it only goes to show how much humans have polluted the earth’s atmosphere. “It is a bit of hype,” said HR Madhusudan, senior scientific officer, Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium. “There is nothing really special. All lunar eclipses, depending on the dust present in the atmosphere, can make the moon look anywhere from faint red to deep red. Deep red is only a grim reminder that there is more dust particles in the atmosphere.” Technically, the moon should not be visible during an eclipse because it would be hidden in earth’s shadow. Astronomers say anything in the shadow region should not be visible if it shines with reflected light (like the moon). “It should be black,” Madhusudan said. “But it appears reddish because of a scattering of light by the earth’s atmosphere. While the shade of red changes, the object itself is always red during eclipses,” he said, adding that it is because of the same reason (scattering) that the rising and setting sun appears red. Astronomer TS Ganesh, who agreed with Madhusudan, claimed that the phenomenon will be visible in the US after 150 years. India and other parts of the world had recorded a blood moon in 1982 and 1963. Madhusudan revealed descriptions of a blood moon have been recorded even in the works of mathematician-astronomer Aryabhatta as early as 576AD. He attributed the dust in the atmosphere then to more active volcanoes. “The brightness of the Moon is considerably reduced when it is in the shadow of earth, and the atmosphere acts like a filter,” he said. “The particles in the atmosphere scatter the sunlight, letting through only the orange or red portion of the spectrum. It may appear blood red when seen through highly polluted atmosphere.” Two Other Lunar Events However, Ganesh insisted that the January 31 lunar eclipse will be special. “That is because three separate lunar events will occur on the same day: A supermoon, an eclipse, and a blue moon,” Ganesh said. A supermoon is when the moon is at perigee — the closest to earth and appears 14% larger than usual — while a blue moon is the second full moon of the month. This too is rare since a full moon normally occurs only once a month. “Actually, the next perigee is on January 30, when the moon is only 358,993km from earth as compared to 405,700 km when it is farthest (which it will be on February 11),” Ganesh said. “On January 31, the moon will be even closer at 3,56,565km from earth.” The most recent occurrence of a super moon coinciding with a lunar eclipse was on September 28, 2015.