After a series of events throughout the year,   recently brought the curtains down on its golden jubilee celebrations. Former President   was the chief guest while  , the Vice Chancellor of DU was the guest of honour at the closing ceremony.

  
  Yogesh Tyagi, VC, DU greets Pranab Mukherjee 
 
 
 
 
  Mukherjee was escorted to the auditorium by the college's   cadets. And before inaugurating the college's wall which had photos of the past years, Mukherjee, Yogesh Tyagi, and the college's Principal  , lit the lamp to formally begin the event. As all the dignitaries moved towards the auditorium, the principal said, "Students at Gargi are encouraged towards holistic development with facilities in sports, NCC, NSS and other co-curricular activities. So I can say that Gargi stands for gyaan, anubhav, and rashtra prem ka gauravi itihas."
 
  
  Pranab Mukherjee lighting the lamp with the college Principal
 
  Tyagi congratulated the college and the students on the completion of 50 years. "As you are celebrating your golden jubilee, set some standards, probably impossible goals because success lies in achieving the goals that seem impossible. Provoke yourself to set extra-ordinary objectives as you have support from everyone. We love you, and whenever you need any support from us, we will always help. And thank you for inviting me here. I have never dared to enter the premises of Gargi College. I would have never done this without my guardian angel (Pranab Mukherjee). Thank you, sir, because of you, I can dare to do this. All of you are very lucky. I was not part of a college shich the former president of the country would visit," he said.
 
  
  Guests at the event
 
  
 
  As Pranab Mukherjee began his speech, everyone in the audience stood up to welcome him. "I would like to express my deep appreciation and gratitude to the principal and the golden jubilee committee for inviting me on this happy occasion. Completion of 50 years in the life of an institution may not seem very long, but at the same time, it is an important milestone as it provides an opportunity to stop for a moment, reflect from where we started, to where we are now, and what is our objective in the future. As we know, this college had a modest beginning with 200 students and less than 20 teachers, not having a house of its own. It started from a school building, and now you have reached here. Go ahead, and move forward," he said.
 
 
  
 
