MUMBAI: The game’s becoming shorter and shorter, with even T10 being tried out. The number of people owning a team is increasing, private leagues are on the rise, and in the  , you have the Decision Review System (DRS) and even midseason transfers this time. Is cricket, then, going the football way? Well, former Sri Lankan skipper and current   coach   certainly thinks so.

 
 At MI’s pre-tournament conference here on Thursday, Jayawardene, when quizzed on the IPL’s evolution after a decade’s existence, offered an interesting take on where franchise-based T20 cricket was heading. “It’s going the football way - like transfer, technology being used and investing in younger players is always going to be healthy for international cricket. If you see the Indian white ball team now, most players have come through IPL. It’s (international cricket) always healthy. I don’t see any problem,” Jayawardene said.
 
 It was said, and statistics proved, that Test cricket became more exciting after the arrival of One-day cricket. The 149-Test veteran feels that T20 cricket has now made the five-day format even more result-oriented. “The skill levels of the players have improved because of T20 cricket. See Test cricket now - 80-90 percent of Tests are result-oriented, which is always good, purely because of the pace at which the guys are scoring runs and the skills that the bowlers have to take wickets. Matches have gone to the fourth or fifth day and then a result has emerged. All this is healthy for the game,” he felt.
 
 Both Jayawardene and MI skipper captain   gave a thumbs-up to the introduction of the DRS and a mid-season football-style transfer window at this season of the IPL. The short transfer window will be open midway through the campaign (from match No 28 to 42) for uncapped players and those who have played no more than two matches till that stage of the league. “This is the evolution for the franchise model going forward. It’s a great option. It’s quite new to all the franchises to go through the season halfway and discuss how best we can address that,” said Jayawardene.
 
 “The mid-season transfer window will give the teams an opportunity to see what they need in the squad and other teams will also be looking at what players they can get. It completely depends on the franchise if a situation comes when we need to get a player or give a player. It will add even more value to the tournament,” said Rohit.
 
 “DRS is a plus for the IPL. Mistakes happen and DRS is a helping hand. I’m pleased with that. International players know how to handle it and it will be a good learning experience for the younger players,” said Jayawardene. Endorsing his coach’s view, Rohit said, “It’s only good for the game and the tournament. At the end of the day you want right decisions to be made and DRS will only help us get that.”
 
