NEW DELHI: The   today decided to not hold a re-examination for the   mathematics course even though the 
  .

 
 This decision holds good even for test-takers in   and  , the two regions where the leak reportedly took place.
 
 The final decision of not conducting the test came after a thorough analysis and evaluation of the answer sheets showed no specific trend that the leak had impacted the exam outcome.
 
 
 
 
 "Consequent to the preliminary evaluation of the impact of reportedly leaked CBSE class 10 maths paper and keeping in mind the paramount interest of students, CBSE has decided not to conduct re-examination even in the states of Delhi, NCR and Haryana," said education secretary Anil Swarup.
 
 The Class 10 math examination was held March 28.
 
 An informed source told TOI yesterday that rigorous analysis will be done to check unusual variations in marks in the coming days to enable the CBSE to figure out which answer papers indicate a leak.
 
 Furthermore 
  believe the Class 10 examination, which is a qualifying one for students to move to higher secondary school rather than to university, could be treated differently. 
 
 "If a student has done poorly in internal assessment and does exceptionally well in the main paper and this is at variance with his other papers — then we might examine the result more carefully," said the source to TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, the re-examination for Class 12 economics paper will take place as scheduled on April 25. 
 
 Three people, including two teachers of a private school, were arrested by the Delhi Police on Sunday for their suspected roles in leakage of the Class 12 economics paper.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as Rishabh, 29 and Rohit, 26, both teachers at a private school in Bawana, and Tauqeer, 26, a tutor at a private coaching centre there.
 
 Police revealed that the two accused teachers snapped pictures of the Class 12 Economics paper 40-45 minutes before the start of the exam on March 26 and forwarded it to Tauqeer on WhatsApp.
 
 Following the leaks of economics and maths question papers, the CBSE had announced that the examination centres would henceforth receive an encrypted copy of the question papers on e-mail and they would need to download and print themselves. 
 
 However, the process, implemented after just one dummy run, was delayed in some schools due to multiple glitches.
 
 
 
 
 
 
