Hubballi:   is a common profession in the   region. Now, it is also attracting farmers from the   region. Some farmers in   and   are taking it as an agriculture-allied activity to increase their yield by 40%.

 Speaking to TOI, Anilkumar Tatineni, an organic farmer in Basapatna village in Gangavati taluk, said that he has been involved in beekeeping since 11 years. “Now, we have formed Sanjeevini Jenu Krushikara Sangh and have 25 members from all over the district. Apart from the members, 10-15 farmers are associated with us and have taken beekeeping as an allied activity. As our Sangh is the first to be empanelled with the  , we are not facing any marketing issue as such,” he explained.
 
 Recalling the beginning, Tatineni said that it all started when they bought two boxes from one Shantaveerayya in Metikurke. There were initial hurdles, but later they started garnering profit. “I have sold over hundreds of boxes and currently own 60 boxes,” he said.
 
 Pampapati Madiwal of Hanumanatti village, who is an expert in protecting natural honey nests, said that farmers are earning about Rs 5,000 from each box per year. “Moreover, pollination of honeybees is an organic way to enhance the quantity and quality of crops. It can enhance our yield by 40%. Now, many people are approaching our team members seeking pure honey,” he said.
 
 Ningappa Kumbar, president of the Sangh, asserted that beekeeping is an eco-friendly profession and encourages farmers to sacrifice chemical fertilisers and pesticides. “It does not need much physical strain, but requires sensitivity. Women farmers are much interested in this activity in the district,” he observed.
 
 Kumbar, who is also identified as a motivator by the horticulture department, noted that one   lays 500-1,000 eggs per day and lives for 2-3 years. “Other bees fly in around 1km of the area and bring nectar. Each box contains eight super frames and eight others to cultivate bees safely,” he explained.
 
 He mentioned that a group of farmers like Anand Raddi of Dambaralli, Devendragouda of Kolur, Mahesh of Karatagi, Veknanagouda Meti of Koppal, Prakash Banagar, Parvatayyaswami of Hosalli is committed to guide other farmers in the district. “Moreover, Shantalingeshwar Mahaswami of Gaddimath is creating awareness among the commoners,” he informed.
 
 “We are happy that many farmers are coming forward for beekeeping in a district like Koppal. Seeing their zeal, we organized a honey mela recently to take it to more farmers. We are providing subsidy of Rs 1,800 per box to the general category and Rs 3,600 per box to SC/ST farmers. We are also providing subsidy of Rs 50,000 for farmers who wish to increase beekeeping by forming a honey garden,” said Krishna Ukkund, deputy director, horticulture department, Koppal.
 
 
