NEW DELHI:   donated voluntarily in Delhi went down from 55% of total collection to 45% between 2014 and 2017. This was determined by CAG in an audit of 68 blood banks in the capital for the period up to March 2017. Most blood banks, the audit showed, rely on replacement blood — blood given by a patient’s relative or friend in lieu of blood used from the hospital stock — which carries a relatively higher risk of infection.

 
  
  
 
 Lok Nayak Hospital’s blood bank, for example, collected 56,245 units of blood in 2014-17. Of this, only 6% came from voluntary donors against the target of 90% set by the National Aids Control Organisation. The hospital told CAG last June that after the scrapping of the blood bank van a year and a half ago, blood donation camps could not be organised.
 
 Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, which managed 55% collection through voluntary donors, claimed the shortfall was due to lack of education and awareness and religious or health issues among the public. Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, which recorded the highest of 72%, said it couldn’t meet the target of 90% due to shortage of manpower, equipment, counsellors and social workers.
 
 The audit report, however, pointed out that irrespective of the blood collected, none of the blood banks run by the state government or municipal corporations had run the Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAT) capable of detecting anomalies such as HIV and Hepatitis B and C in the "least window period". They relied instead on Elisa III test, which cannot detect infections transmitted in the immediate past, say a week or a month before donation. “Patients often arrange for professional donors. Such donors tend to conceal medical history, and if the screening system isn’t foolproof, infections can be transmitted,” said a doctor, who asserted NAT is a must.
 
 CAG reported that Delhi government decided in November 2009 to introduce NAT screening, initially by outsourcing tests to four major blood banks and attaching the smaller blood banks to this quartet, but the plan was not adequately followed up. “None of blood banks under Delhi government and MCD hospitals have NAT screening facility as of March 2017 whereas five out of nine blood banks under government of India and 17 out of 39 private blood banks were using NAT for screening blood,” the CAG report said.
 
 In 2014-17, the five blood banks at Lok Nayak, GTB, DDU, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial and Swami Dayanand hospitals prepared 4.47 lakh units of blood and its components of which 15% was discarded for reasons from expiry of shelf life to lack of storage facility and clotting. The audit observed that the hospitals did not establish quantitative norms for holding the blood and blood components allowing the transfer of excess blood and components to other blood banks to minimise wastage.
 
 All blood banks in Delhi enrolled for the blood locator app launched by the National Blood Transfusion Council in June 2015, but the CAG audit showed that 32 had not updated any information, thus defeating the purpose of providing real-time information to the end user. Doctors say that many patients die due to lack of timely blood transfusion and the government needed to standardise the system to ensure such discrepancies do not hamper the supply of the life-saving product.
 
 
