BAREILLY: In another measure to curb cheating in   exams set to begin on February 6, the district inspectors of schools (DIOS) have ordered principals to ensure that   cameras installed at exam centres in all the 75 districts are connected with generator sets. The officials have also directed that CCTV cameras should record all proceedings, from opening of question papers to their distribution, writing of exams, collection and packing of answer sheets.
 
  This is the first time when the state government has made it compulsory for 8,549 exam centres across UP to install CCTV cameras. In a slew of anti-cheating measures,  , additional chief secretary, higher and secondary education department in October last year had made it mandatory for the exam centres to have power backups, like generator or battery.
  
    DIOS Achal Mishra told TOI, “As erratic power supply in UP is very common, we have told school principals that they should not later make excuses that proceedings of the exams were not recorded during power cuts. We want to rule out any possibility of the use of unfair means in exams during power cuts.”
  
  On January 18, chief secretary   had directed all district magistrates that “during random inspection of exam centres, the officials should ensure that CCTV cameras are functional. The CCTV footages and recordings should be regularly checked at sensitive exam centres. In-charges of exam centres will secure the recordings of entire exams. Administration and senior officials of education department can access CCTV footages or recordings any time.”
  
  “As CCTV cameras are must to ensure transparency in   exams, we have directed principals of exam centres to submit daily recordings along with answer copies. Besides, when I inspected exam centres, I noticed that a few schools had installed cameras in such a manner that the complete view of classroom was not visible. I have directed them to change the position of CCTV cameras, so that all corners of rooms should be properly visible,” DIOS Mishra said.
  
  According to education officials, the number of exam centres across the state has been reduced from 11,414 in 2017 to 8,549 in 2018 to ensure better observation, control and discipline. A total of 67.29 lakh students in the state have registered for Board exams for both classes X and XII. A total of 37,12,508 students have registered for class X exams while 30,17,032 have registered for class XII exams. The exams will conclude on March 12.
