NEW DELHI: The cost of Indian contingent’s participation in the forthcoming Gold Coast Commonwealth Games (CWG) has generated some heat, leading to a conflict of opinion between the sports ministry and the   ( ) on the funding of Indian contingents.

 
 IOA president   said on Monday that no sports governing body (read IOA and national sports federations) can send the athletes to multi-sport events on own cost and that they need the government’s support. But sports minister  , sharing the same stage, exhorted the IOA and sports federations to become “financially independent” and look to generate their own revenues.
 
 “To be (financially) independent is good. But in India, except for cricket, no sports body can function without grant from the government. So, we will continue to get grant from the sports ministry," the IOA chief declared.
 
 Rathore called upon the IOA and NSFs to take advantage of the recent interests shown by the corporate sector to invest in sports and become self-sufficient.
 
 “The biggest sponsor of Indian sports till now has been the government of India and we will continue to do so. However, all the federations should work towards making themselves financially independent and generate revenue of their own,” he added.
 
 These contradictory statements have come on the back of some reports that the IOA is all set to send the Indian contingent to the CWG without taking any financial support from the sports ministry.
 
 The fact is that neither the ministry nor the IOA would, per se, fund the selected Indian athletes’ trip to the Gold Coast. The cost of flight tickets for athletes and accompanying officials who are part of the Indian contingent would be borne by the CWG organisers who will be paying Aus$ 1400 per ticket to the IOA. Though the ministry would originally book the tickets through its official ticketing agency Balmer Lawrie, the IOA would later return back the amount to the ministry once it’s paid by the CWG organisers.
 
 Similarly, Raymond has come onboard as IOA's official styling partner for the opening and closing ceremonies, where the country’s athletes will march behind the national flag.   will be the official sports apparel partner (training and playing kit) for the CWG. Edelweiss Financial Services Limited will be the sponsor of the contingent for the Gold Coast CWG, 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo as well as the 2018 and 2019 National Games.
 
 Edelweiss has offered a life insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh for the Indian athletes at the CWG. The sponsorship partners were introduced by Batra in the presence of Rathore and other IOA officials at a city hotel on Monday.
 
 As far as the athletes’ daily allowance is concerned, they will be paid out-of-pocket allowance of $ 100 per day, which is a standard practice when it comes to the CWG, Asian Games and Olympics.
 
 Batra informed that India will be represented by 227 athletes at the CWG, which will be the second biggest-ever contingent.
 
