Porvorim:  Porvorim: Aggrived by the massive hike in the licensing fee of off-shore and land-based casino, the casino operators are seeking a review of the new fees even as the Goa government on Wednesday granted yet another extension of six months to six offshore casinos operating in the Mandovi river. Casino operators speaking to TOI said that the huge hike of up to 4.5 times in licensing fee would not only make many casino operations difficult to survive but would have a spill over effect on the state’s economy including tourism. “The massive hike will drastically impact not only the casino business but also the tourism industry”, said Damodar Bhatkar, liasion officer of Maharaja casino (Golden globe hotels private ltd).  He said the casino industry has grown big in the state over the years and is tourism-oriented now. Besides, it would impact employment, Bhatkar added. Many didn’t want to come on record and it was clear that they are very agitated by the order issued by the home department. There was an informal meeting of the casino operators on Wednesday wherein they decided to submit a representation to the government. “We are in the process of preparing a memorandum to the government seeking review of the fees”, said director of Casino Pride, Shrinivas Nayak said. “One cannot sustain with the new fee structure.There has to be some consideration”, said another operator adding that ultimately it may lead to monopoly of one group in the market. “If the fees are not reduced, it would lead to a situation of survial of the fittest”. Wednesday evening, the state cabinet allowed the casinos to continue their operations near the state capital even as the casino policy promised by the Manohar Parrikar-government remains at the drafting stage. “The council of ministers resolved to grant extension to the six offshore casino licensees to relocate their offshore casinos from River Mandovi for a further period of six months from April 1 to September 30,” the cabinet note said. Urban development minister Francis D’Souza said the extension has been granted as the Goa casino policy has not been finalized. The cabinet decision will be communicated to chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who is currently undergoing treatment in the USA, for his approval.  “The casino policy has not been finalized,” said D’Souza, when asked for the reason for granting casino operators more time to relocate. An official said before chief minister Manohar Parrikar fell ill, the draft casino policy was discussed and deliberated, and the government was inclined to relocate the casinos to Mopa, where a new international airport is being built. Last September, Parrikar granted a six-month extension to the six offshore casinos for relocation, which expires on March 31. Parrikar had initially promised to unveil the casino policy by December, but later said that he would release the casino policy during the budget session in February-March. The five offshore casinos will be required to submit an unconditional undertaking that they will shift the casino vessels out of River Mandovi whenever an alternative feasible site is finalized by the state government. gfx for inside page: Locations identified in the past for relocation: Aguada bay and Zuari, Chapora and Sal rivers.  Later it was suggested to shift them to Mopa airport complex The six offshore casino licencees are Delta Corp Ltd, Goa Coastal Resorts and Recreation Pvt Ltd, Highstreet Cruises and Entertainment, Golden Peace Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, Delta Pleasure Cruise Company and the Golden Globe Hotels Private Limited-owned Big Daddy Casino.