Madurai rural police have a promising start in reducing the road fatalities from the beginning of this year, if numbers are to be believed. It seems that the efforts made by the rural police have started paying off if the number of victims of road fatalities is any indication. While 117 people died in road accident in Madurai rural limits till March 21 last year, this year the death count till Tuesday is just 69. The downturn is a tremendous 41%, which is the highest in the nine southern districts. This was followed by Dindigul at 30% and Virudhunagar at 29%.

 The road deaths have come down in all the southern districts, except for   district. Compared to 2017, the number of road accident victims is less by 157 in the entire southern zone, comprising the nine districts – Madurai, Dindigul, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Virudhunagar, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari, more than 20% decrease when compared to the previous year.
 
 It may be noted that as many as 512 people perished in road accidents in rural police limits in 2017, while 514 lost their lives in the previous year.
 
 Among the six police sub-divisions in Madurai district,   and Peraiyur have done well compared to other sub-divisions as they have reduced the death rate by 62% and 50% respectively. Melur sub-division had an increase of 6% fatalities.
 
 Madurai district superintendent of police N   said that they had taken several measures to prevent accident fatalities, which included ensuring quick medical assistance. He said that many die as there is a delay in getting medical assistance in the golden hour.
 
 As it is found that Melur is the most accident-prone zone in Madurai district, the department is thinking of opening a police outpost there. He said that they had identified 96 accident-prone spots and were installing barricades to slow down the vehicles. They have also identified junctions such as Thuvariman, Thanakkankulam and Andipatti Bungalow as dangerous places.
 
 A road transport official from Madurai district said that Melur has the longest four-way stretch in Madurai making it the most dangerous stretch. "There are more than 150 villages abutting the four-way road from   to Kottampatti and almost 90% of those killed in accidents were locals. They cross the road at their own will and met with accidents. Many were under the influence and failed to judge the speed of the vehicle," he said.
 
 K Angamuthu, a villager from Vellaripatti near Melur, said people risk their lives as there are not enough safe passages to cross the busy highway. He wanted the authorities to construct a bridge or subway at Vellaripatti as hundreds of villagers and employees in the nearby tyre factory frequent the place.
 
 
