Actor   is a familiar face to the audience through the umpteen supporting roles he has done in serials as well as films like Mattupetti Machan, Oru CBI Diary Kurippu, Jagratha, Abkari, hits of the late 80s and 90s. The 51-year-old, who rose to fame by portraying lead roles in tele-serials aired on Doordarshan, is completing 28 years in showbiz. His current project,  , a serial to be aired for European Malayalis, will mark the 100th serial in the actor’s career. We catch up with   to know more about his new telly innings, his love for villain roles and more.

 
 
 
 
 My father was a lawyer at Manjeri, Malappuram. I was expected to follow my father’s footsteps but my love for acting made me enrol myself at a film institute where actress Suhasini was my senior. I graduated in film studies in 1986 and I must say that I was blessed to receive acting projects soon after. I did not have to look back after my debut film Irupatham Noottandu, directed by K Madhu. I played the role of a minister in it. My mini screen debut was through the tele-serial Mikhayelinte Santhathikal, directed by Jude Attipetty in 1993. It was a popular Christian serial aired on Doordarshan, and I played Vakkachan, the antihero. For a beginner like me, the serial was a big break and I was flooded with more serials. I was lucky to be part of one or more mega serials every year besides a few films under good production houses.
 
 
 
 
 
 Priyankari marks my 100th serial on the mini screen. The story revolves around a girl who gets cheated by her boyfriend and how her father, a wealthy NRI, sorts things out. Actress   plays the lead and I play the role of her father. It is the first Malayalam serial shot only for the European Malayali audience, and it will be aired from February 10 onwards. It is directed by Shiju Aroor, who is also the director of the soap Nokketha Doorathu, and will have around 260 episodes.
 
 
 
 
 
 Acting is still my passion and rather than looking at the hierarchy of my characters, I focus on the space for performance they give me. Yes, I did numerous supporting roles in films and in serials, for which I was recognised also. People still tell me about the role I did in the serial Samayam, of Kattoor Jayendan Namboothiri. But it was aired on Asianet a decade ago! It was challenging for me to enact a namboothiri and I almost gave up. It was veteran actor Babu Namboothiri who helped me to get into the skin of the character. Being a Christian, the slang and mannerisms of a namboothiri were alien for me. Babu sir taught me the basic mannerisms and dialects of a namboothiri, which helped me enact the role effectively. Another such role which viewers still remember was Captain Benny Thomas in the serial Omanathingal Pakshi aired on Asianet in the late 2000s. I played the husband of actress Lena’s character in the serial. 
 When it comes to films, police officers and rough villainous characters were the roles I played the most. I love to do such characters as I believe they are masculine. They also give us an opportunity to act without restraints unlike in a hero’s role.
 It needs a lot of struggle and hardship to sustain in this industry. I have seen good actors leave the field due to lack of opportunity and loss of hope. But I did not give up during bad times. It can be shattering to know that the projects that we committed to were passed to others, especially in films. It is part of the game and only the one who moves on will endure. I am happy that people recognise me for my characters or projects. That is the success of an actor, whatever the role. We must accept criticism along with praise and only then will we grow as an actor. I feel I have enacted almost all kinds of characters so I don’t have any particular role in my wish list.
 
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, our serials were based on prominent Malayalam novels penned by novelist Joycy or those which appear on popular Malayalam weeklies. But now I see that the plots and subjects revolve around socially relevant incidents or real-life incidents happening around us. That’s a good trend. Apart from a dramatic story, the audience get to experience realistic characters and become closer to the small screen. Also, so many youngsters are coming into the acting field that it’s difficult to remember their names.
 
 
 
 
 
 Currently I play the role of a wealthy man, Jeevan, in the serial   aired on Surya TV which is my 99th serial. I have also two films in my kitty, Chalakudykkaran Changathi directed by Vinayan and another film Kalippu. 
 
 
 
