LUCKNOW: The state   held a brainstorming session on Sunday with three high-level back-to-back meetings with a fourth scheduled for Monday morning before chief minister   takes off for Delhi to meet the party brass. The CM hammered out proposals for reshuffle in the government and the organization and set the tone for 2019 general elections.

 
 The core committee meeting of ruling BJP which continued late on Sunday, also discussed the strategy for two crucial bypolls of   parliamentary seat and Noorpur Assembly seat. The CM headed the meeting of core committee members held at his official residence in the evening.
 
 With Karnataka polls over and CM returning to Lucknow after an extensive campaign, state BJP wants to work aggressively for a repeat of 2014 Lok Sabha elections in 2019 with Uttar Pradesh holding the key to BJP’s return to power at Centre. BJP president Amit Shah has convened a meeting of top leaders from UP on May 18.
 
 First of the series of meetings was held at party headquarters where state president Mahendra Nath Pandey, all general secretaries and general secretary, organization, Sunil Bansal were present.
 
 Organisational leaders discussed at length how to effect changes in the ministry, party set-up and fill more than 350 vacant posts in government corporations and other PSUs to rehabilitate sulking leaders, who failed to get a ticket in 2017 Assembly polls or denied a party position.
 
 Core committee meetings also finalized masscontact programmes for raising the ruling party’s reach to people and also reviewed the recently concluded party programme of wooing Dalits.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP state president declared in-charges of various frontal wings of the party.   will be looking after Mahila Morcha, Vijay Pathak to take care of backward classes,   in charge of Yuva Morcha and   to head Kisan Morcha.
 
 Reshuffle in the government topped the agenda. Of 60 posts, including the chief minister, only 47 have been filled up and 13 are still vacant which means nearly a dozen party MLAs and MLCs can be elevated as ministers.
 
 Party leaders also discussed caste, social and regional representations in the government and how to give more positions to OBCs and Dalits to counter the formidable SP-BSP alliance.
 
 After organizational leaders discussed probable names for 350 vacant positions in the government, the core committee which included two deputy chief ministers, were closeted with the CM at his official residence. This was the second and most important meeting, which continued till late evening and the two wings of the party — government and the organization fine-tuned the plan — of invigorating the government machinery and redressing grievances in the party.
 
 “The committees decided to give status of minister and minister of state to nearly 350 leaders of the party by nominating them in the corporations, commissions and various boards on top priority “ shared a senior functionary of the ruling party with the ToI on the condition of anonymity who was also present at the meeting .
 
 Another important agenda of the core committee meeting was to effect reshuffle in the government to drop non-performing ministers, induct new faces for giving projection to BCs and SCs in the government to counter the SP-BSP alliance. The final blueprint will be decided by the party high-command. The core committee meeting also decided its campaign strategy for the two bypolls in Kairana and Noorpur.
 
 Later, organizational leaders met UP BJP chief,  , who chaired the meeting at the party’s state office on poll preparations for 2019 general elections. The committee will meet again on Monday morning before the CM takes off for Delhi in the afternoon.
 
