NEW DELHI: The bloodbath in the   has badly impacted the government’s earnings, with revenue of the industry taking a major hit.

 
 As   unleashed a wave of highly-competitive pricing after its launch in September 2016, the industry’s revenue and profitability came under pressure. Companies such as Bharti  , Vodafone and Idea Cellular had to lower tariffs to match the new-entrant.
 
 The depressing time for the industry led to a decline in the government’s earnings from the sector. Collections from Spectrum Usage Charge (SUC) and licence fee have seen alarming falls.
 
  
  
 
 According to figures released by   Regulatory Authority of India, the gross revenue of the industry dipped by 9% in 2017 to Rs 2.5 lakh crore, against Rs 2.8 lakh crore in the previous year. Licence fee collection of the government in 2017 fell 19% in 2017 to Rs 12,975 crore, compared to Rs 15,975 crore in the previous year. This could be a worrying factor for the government as it looks to control the fiscal deficit, pegged at 3.5% of GDP for 2017-18, and 3.3% for 2018-19. Government’s collection from SUC — another critical source of income — was down by 33% to Rs 5,089 crore in 2017 against Rs 7,573 crore in 2016. 
 
 According to industry analysts, continued competition, falling tariffs and reduction in Interconnection Usage Charge will also mean that tough times are likely to stay for some more time.
 
 The woes have already led to consolidation, with certain companies deciding to call it a day. Reliance Communications, Russia’s Sistema and Tata Tele have exited the sector, considering the difficult scenario. Saddled by heavy losses,   and Idea Cellular have decided to merge their businesses to strike operational synergies and reduce costs.
 
 A combined Idea-Vodafone is likely to get clearance by the end of the first half of this year and will emerge as the largest telecom company in the country, ahead of current leader Bharti Airtel. Airtel has been battling the mounting competitive pressure, which has severely squeezed its profits. However, the company has still not slipped into the red, and is now looking at ways to reduce its debt, while boosting revenue and profitability.
 
 Reliance Jio, on the other hand, has netted profit (in October-December quarter) and currently boasts of a subscriber base of 170 million. The government formed an inter-ministerial group to look into the financial distress of the telecom industry that collectively has a debt of over Rs 4 lakh crore. There have been fears that companies may not be able to service debt, leading to delinquencies.
 
 The government recently allowed companies to make their payments towards spectrum purchase in 16 installments, instead of 10 stipulated earlier, giving a sort of relief. Also, the government relaxed the spectrum holding ceiling that an individual company can hold in order to promote consolidation among bigger players. However, industry body COAI (Cellular Operators Association of India) had asked for tax break, saying these measure are not enough for revival.
 
 The government has said that it may look at other relief measures in the new telecom policy, which is currently under progress. The policy is expected to be announced soon, though giving any tax break may be difficult in view of the falling revenue collections for the government.
 
 
