NAGPUR: Glaring inconsistencies in the Academic Council nominations of Nagpur University ( ) have come to fore. Vice-chancellor SP   has recommended at least five ineligible members, who would soon superannuate or were defeated candidates in the   elections.

 Though the notification states that the 11 appointments were done as per Section 32(3)(f), there is no mention of the search committee.
 
 On January 31, after much delay, NU notified the nominations list that surprised different groups since only the BJP-RSS backed Shikshan Manch candidates were named in it. Earlier, the VC had recommended a mix of candidates from all groups. They were also asked to furnish an undertaking regarding their eligibility and background.
 
 One of the members,  , had declared himself ineligible for the membership since his college’s   accreditation expired.
 
 Parseoni’s Mahatma Gandhi Arts & Commerce College principal Vinayak Irpate has been nominated despite his college not been NAAC accredited. Keshav Patil and Shriram Bhuskute are due to retire in a month and a year, respectively. Mrunalini Fadnavis and turncoat   had lost the Senate elections held in November.
 
 NU sources said those whom the electoral college had rejected shouldn’t have been named. The council term is of five years, then how can someone continue after retirement, they asked.
 
 The goof-ups could have been avoided had the VC formed a search panel, which is actually meant to cross check a candidate’s background and eligibility, among other things.
 
 In fact, the notification contradicts Kane who had earlier told TOI that he had set up one-man search committee of pro-VC Pramod Yeole. But in the notification, there is no mention of the committee.
 
  former secretary Anil Dhage, who had written to VC seeking constitution of a search committee, said it is not mandatory to mention about the search committee in the notification. “But constitution of the panel is a must. There is no direction regarding constitution of the search committee, what was its mandate and who were the member/s. When you are head of a public institution, such acts are not desirable,” he said.
 
 Asked about ineligible candidates, Dhage said, “The VC nominated them in consultation with the chancellor, he must have used his wisdom. If at all it is brought to his notice that there is a problem with the nominated members, he must have had a rethink.”
 
 The teachers’ leader also said that nobody can question the VC’s decision but it has to be as per law.
 
 “After all, he has the powers and nobody can question if you nominate A or B. But ensure that persons eligible as per the Act were nominated and highest standards of transparency was maintained,” he added.
 
 
