KOLKATA: A dense layer of   hung heavy over the city for nearly three hours on Monday morning, plunging the city into near darkness at dawn. Streetlights remained switched on even as vehicles plied with headlights on till around 8.30am. The darkness led to the death of a biker, who rammed into the boundary wall on Ultadanga flyover. Train services were disrupted and visibility dropped to 300m at Kolkata airport. Flights were, however, not affected. 

 The low fog engulfed almost the entire southern and central parts of the city, reducing visibility to a mere 50m. It had been triggered by a ‘fog belt’ that now extends from Uttar Pradesh to Bangladesh, cutting across south   and Kolkata, according to the   (RMC), Alipore.
 
 While fog had been forming in pockets of the city over the last one week, Monday’s haze turned out to be unprecedented. Even weathermen couldn’t recall the last time such a dense fog had wrapped Kolkata till as late as 8.30am. “It was unusually thick and low. More surprisingly, it kept wafting across the city for a long time,” said GK Das, director, RMC.
 
 A northeasterly wind blowing in from Bangladesh made the fog descend lower and flow into Kolkata, turning the city dark on Monday morning. “The fog belt now runs across Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Malda and   and extends upto Bangladesh. On Monday, a northeasterly pulled the fog down, making it drift westward from Bangladesh into the city. Usually, fog forms at a height of 700-800 metres from the ground. On Monday, it came down to a few metres of the ground, giving Kolkata a hill-station feel.
 
 What aided the fog was a cyclonic circulation in Bangladesh. “It has been providing moisture into the air. The circulation has also kept Kolkata cloudy over the last three days,” added Das. But the city is unlikely to receive rain over the next 48 hours.
 
 Those stepping out early on the first day of the week were taken by surprise. “It indeed felt like Darjeeling, with the fog floating so low and thick. The chill, too, was sharp and the weather was very unlike Kolkata. Even though driving through the haze was a little difficult, I loved it,” said Debraj Sen, who drove his daughter to school on Monday morning.
 
 A thick shroud of fog caused multiple accidents and disruptions.Around 6.30am, a 35-year-old man, Tarun Gharui, riding a bike without helmet missed a sharp bend on Ultadanga flyover and rammed into the concrete boundary wall. Later, motorists passing the stretch found him lying bleeding and called policemen. He was taken to RG  , where he was declared dead on arrival. Gharui was heading towards EM Bypass from the   end of the flyover, police said.
 
 Visibility at the airport dropped to 300metre for a couple of hours on Monday morning, necessitating the switchover to CAT III-B instrument landing system (ILS) that allows flights to operate till visibility drops below 50metre. This is the second time that the technology commissioned earlier this month has been put to use. Though operations did not get affected, there are slight delays due to increase in runway occupancy time during this period as pilots are more cautious while exiting the runway. Also, incoming aircraft have to clear the critical area before the next flight is allowed to land.
 
 
