All things new’ seems to be the mantra of   this year. 

 These days, you hear the singer’s name associated with many disciplines including composing, lyrics writing and even dubbing, alongside singing. “All of it came to me, none was planned,” says Sayanora, as she explains how she went on to try her hand at each of these.
 
 The singer, who has been part of the industry for more than a decade, has made her baby steps as a composer in Malayalam, which hardly had female music makers. “All of its credit goes to Jean Markose, the director of Kuttanpillayude Sivarathri, who has been a good friend for the past 14 years. I went to Dubai for the Gopi Sundar show last February. That’s when Jean and I met. He told me the movie’s thread and said, ‘I wish you compose the music’. My immediate reaction was ‘Why don’t you give it to someone who knows the job? Why experiment with me?’”
 
 However, Jean wasn’t ready to give up, she says. “He said I should look at it as an opportunity and managed to convince me. I was adamant that I won’t commit to the background scores but somehow, he coaxed me into that too,” says the singer, who would probably be the first lady to do background scores in Malayalam cinema.
 
 The task came with its set of challenges. “There is this track, Chakka Paattu, in the film. It belongs to the genre of thottam pattu, the vocal ballad that is part of theyyam. We wanted a tune that is new yet simple. To strike the right balance, I had to strive a lot,” she says. Sannidhanandan and Nimmy sing the song, which Sayanora says was the toughest to compose.
 
 She has also written the lyrics for an experimental country song in the movie. “I penned it for fun, but Jean liked it and decided to retain it. The film’s hero Suraj Venjaramoodu sung it,” says Sayanora, who has also sung another version for the movie. “The initial plan was that I am not going to sing in the film, but Jean insisted. It will be part of the movie’s end credits.”
 
 Why did Jean entrust the task to her? “I have asked him numerous times, but have not got an answer. He has not seen me working on music much,” Sayanora says. “I guess he had more confidence in my talent, than I did and I am happy he roped me in.”
 She has already taken up her second project, directed by National Award winner filmmaker Soumya Sadanandan. “I will be composing one song in the movie,” she says.
 
 Ask her about the space for women music makers in our industry and the musician says, “We know our limitations as women, but we have also learnt to live in that comfort zone. I guess as more women come in, it will all change. Sithara Krishnakumar has also debuted as a composer, and I heard her beautiful songs for Udalazham. I believe it’s our pseudo Indian culture that stood in the way of more women who wanted to come in here. We need a lot of family support, like in my case. My husband never questions me where I am or who I am with, while working. That level of understanding and support is absolutely essential. All that said, if I make up my mind to be a music director, I will find solutions for any issue.”
 
 She jokingly adds that being a composer doesn’t mean saying good bye to singing. “I was recently telling composer Gopi Sunder, ‘Gopi chetta, just because I started composing, don’t stop calling me for singing, ok?’” she laughs.
 
 Sayanora has been trying a hand at dubbing too, of late. “I have the habit of cracking lame jokes. Once, apparently I said a joke, while having tea with Soumya, in two different ways - first in a soft voice and then in a naughty tone. While directing Rabbit Hole, in which she had to have the actress presented in two different moods, one of which happens to be that of stand-up comedy, she felt I am the right fit.”
 
 However, Soumya made Sayanora go through a lot of training to get her dubbing right. “She brought in a stand-up comedian, Vinay Menon, to train me and we watched a few of his shows. He taught me how to speak, and even breathe, while performing. All of it helped.” It’s after this experience that Sayanora went to sing for the Nivin Pauly-Trisha film  . “When Shyam sir asked me about dubbing for the film, I was already well equipped and could say an easy okay,” she recalls.
 
 The process though was not easy, as her throat was not keeping well. “But gradually it fell into place and I executed it trying a bit of mimicry too, softening my voice, for the character.” Her dubbing for   garnered praise as well. “Her manager called me and said she was very happy and even when we met for the audio launch, she expressed her satisfaction on the same.” 
 
