JAIPUR: Nearly 150 low-floor buses running on Public Private Partnership ( ) mode may go off roads on February 20. 

 The private contractor has threatened to go on strike alleging that   (JCTSL) is violating the terms and condition of the agreement. Moreover, the drivers of   buses appointed by the contractor have already announced to go on hunger strike. 
 
 In a letter to JCTSL, the contractor has mentioned, “The JCTSL is not able to make payment on time. Also, it is not providing entire fleet of 280 buses as per the contract. The corporation also had to provide   depots. However, despite several reminders, nothing has been done so far.” 
 
 Out of the 400-odd low-floor buses, 310 are operated by the private players. Announcement is made just two months after these drivers called off strike. In November, these drivers had gone for a strike for six days demanding same issues. 
 
 With a possibility of 150 buses operational going off road, over 2 lakh commuters, especially those travelling on longer routes are expected to be affected. The representative, however, said, that the final meeting is organised on February 18, the decision will be taken on the outcome of the meeting. 
 
 Kailash Gujjar, general secretary of the bus union said, “ In 2017 before  , the drivers had gone on the strike demanding several issues including salary hike. The company has assured their demands will be fulfilled. However, even after so many months, nothing has been done so far.”
 
 The drivers have earlier submitted a 11-point agenda, including salary hike and bonus. Sources at JCTSL said “ Drivers are demanding Rs 17,500 per month. At present, the private operator is paying Rs 10,500 to these drivers, which is already higher than remuneration of other agencies drivers,” 
 
 Fear looms large that thousands of commuters will be stranded on roads , if strike happens. As strike continued for more than five days before Diwali last year , commuters in the state capital faced a tough time. Source at JCTSL added, “If services discontinue, the commuters of longer route will face massive problem. If 150 buses go off road, the frequency of buses will reduced drastically. Due to this, traffic pressure will have to be bear by remaining fleet. Majority of buses are already unfit for roads. Overloading may lead to accidents or breakdown”
 
