CHHATBIR ZOO: Till now, only zoo keepers enjoyed the privilege to "walk" between the birds while visitors would peer from behind traditional cage grills and meshes. All this is on the cusp of change as the longest walk-in aviary in India, measuring 300 metres, has been set up at the zoo to afford bird lovers a chance to watch and photograph birds in a proximity never imagined.

 Before this, the longest walk-in aviary was in the Mysore Zoo, which was 80 metres in length.
 
 The five big bird enclosures at the zoo, where large species like pelicans can fly around, have been enlarged and height raised. They have been equipped with walk-through passages traversing right through their centre and connected by galleries. The number of bird species in the aviary is 43, while the target is to house 115 species by 2019. The avian-human interface is restrained by essential safety measures to guard against harm to either. Bird lovers who have visited Singapores iconic   or seen its visuals on social media have been left enthralled by the splendour of proximity and openness.
 
 "The walk-in aviary project is budgeted at Rs. 90 lakh and scheduling the inauguration for February. The aviary is in keeping with the modern concepts of zoological parks that ensure birds are not packed in tight cages and their surroundings are made as natural and comfortable as possible. People will get to see birds feeding, preening, breeding etc and information will be provided through interpretation centres and display boards along the walk," zoo field director M   told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 The grouping of birds by way of species mix will be an important aspect of the walk-in aviary as some bird species are known to predate on others or gobble their eggs/chicks.
 
 The aviary layout lays emphasis on an efficient sewerage system due to the voluminous discharge of fecal matter of birds concentrated in high numbers. Too much poop smell would naturally put off visitors!
 
 The walk-in aviary is characterised by five enclosures modelled on different themes: Rainforest, Japanese, wonder, rocks, and north Indian pond. Waterfalls and a rain effect will be provided in the rainforest section. "We will keep gharials in the walk-in aviary because they are of no threat to birds. They are fish eaters and this will be a lesson for all that they present no danger to humans. This will enhance visitor interest and give a real feel of the natural system. We want people to see birds are living in comfort and are not stressed,'' zoo education officer and biologist Harpal   told TOI.
 
 The Zoo's Bird Trail starts with a 'Pheasant Walk' where species such as the red junglefowl, Kaleej pheasant, Lady  's pheasant are on display. Then the trail leads through the walk-in aviary.
 
 The next phase of the 'Bird Trail' will house four flightless birds — ostrich, emu, cassowary and rhea — in one complex while another ‘walk-around’ aviary will house exotic birds such as South American macaws. “All these bird complexes are planned for a compact layout so that visitors don’t miss any of the bird species,” said Singh.
 
 Of all wild species, birds have historically exerted a powerful draw on the imagination of humans from princes to paupers. Since birds do not harbour potential harm to humans like a tiger or venomous snakes, the attraction of a walk-in aviary would be immense for parents wanting their children to observe them up close and learn more about them. To make the birds more comfortable with the forthcoming human presence, zoo keepers and staff walk through the newlymade passages every day. “We will limit the number of visitors. Initially, we may not charge for entry, but later we could levy a nominal charge for walk-in aviary, so that it earns revenue for the zoo and people value the experience. We would like genuine bird and nature enthusiasts to enjoy this," Sudhagar said.
 
 
 
