Ludhiana: A part of a wall of Gill Chowk flyover here collapsed on Sunday night, following which deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal ordered the formation of a four-member committee to probe into what caused the wall to fall.

 Though the MC said it seemed rat infestation led to the wall’s collapse as rodents had eroded its foundation, the exact reason would be revealed only after the probe committee submits its report. As the collapse took place late in the night, nobody was injured in the incident. A tragedy could have taken place, though, if the wall would have fallen in the middle of the day.
 
 The collapse has also raised questions over the quality of construction material used for the bridge, which is situated in the heart of city. Congress MP Ravneet Bittu and mayor Balkar Sandhu have already said they would dig to the bottom to find out the reasons behind the collapse.
 
 The probe panel, headed by additional deputy commissioner Shyna Aggarwal, has been given 15 days to submit its report. The committee will also comprise MC executive engineer Rahul Gagneja, executive engineer (B&R) Rakesh Garg and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) executive engineer Ranbir Singh.
 
 For now, the retaining wall on the other side of the bridge has been provided temporary support, but it does not seem to be solid enough to last long. Cracks have also developed on the road of the flyover. MC officials said temporary repairs were already underway. 
 
 Sandhu and MC officials inspected the site of collapse on Monday morning, and took its rounds through the day. This flyover is used by commuters to reach from the bus stand to Delhi and Chandigarh road. As one side of Jagraon bridge is under construction, traffic is already heavy on this flyover. 
 
 The DC said the panel would submit a detailed report on the reasons which led to the collapse. “For a month now, buses moving from Jalandhar to Delhi will not enter the city bus stand; they will halt at the grain market near Jalandhar bypass,” the DC said. 
 
 The National Highway Authority of India is expected to repair the flyover. NHAI has been informed about the incident. The DC has already met NHAI officials to discuss repairs. The flyover’s designer, Deepak Builder, has also been summoned to the city for repairs. 
 
 
