KOLKATA: The first phase of tunneling of the   project is on the verge of completion. Prerna, the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) drilling the Howrahbound tunnel, is just 15m from punching the diaphragm wall at the Esplanade station site. Rachna, the other TBM, is 125m behind it. The journey of the TBMs will end at Esplanade and a new pair will take over from here to drill till Sealdah.

 According to sources, the diaphragm is scheduled to be punched at 3pm on Thursday. Rachna, which is currently is slow mode and moving some 50m from   on  , will start rolling in its original speed from Friday. Rachna is likely to punch the diaphragm wall inside Esplanade station in another fortnight.
 
 
  
 
 Both TBMs were in slomo as they neared their last stop, Esplanade. Prerna restarted four days ago from below the traffic rotary at the   to move into Curzon Park, which has been barricaded for construction of the East-West Esplanade station.
 
 East-West Metro’s Esplanade station is coming up diagonally, aligned almost perpendicular to the existing North-South Metro station. A subway will connect the two stations. Adjacent to the East-West station, space has been reserved for the proposed Joka-Esplanade station, across RR Avenue (see map).
 
 “Even if there is uncertainty over the Joka-Esplanade line, provision has been made for building its Esplanade station. When the third Metro station is built, the city’s much-hyped Metro railway hub will be a reality. As of now, we are concentrating on the interface between the existing Kavi Subhash-Noapara line and the East-West corridor,” said an official at Rites, which has drawn up the basic layout of the integrated hub.
 
 While the East-West station is coming up 13m below the existing North-South metro station, the Joka-Esplanade station can align with the North-South station because the tracks are not crossing the station.
 
 The state government had engaged Rites to draw up the integrated plan for the three inter-linked stations to decongest the city’s busiest area. “The linking will be quite literal. A commuter will have to buy one single ticket and travel the entire breath of Noapara-Howrah or Kavi Subhas-Howrah, crisscrossing the twin cities of Howrah and Kolkata. The integrated hub will be linked with bus and taxi connectivity as well.
 
 
