BENGALURU: Showcasing external affairs minister   and defence minister   as proof of his government’s commitment to empowering women, PM   on Friday asked his party’s Mahila Morcha to strive to get more women voters to polling stations on May 12 when   goes to the polls.

 
 “Let women decide the future of Karnataka. Concentrate on women voters. Bring a spirit of competition in them by ensuring they beat the men in casting their ballot. If 300 men vote in a polling station, make sure 350 women cast their ballot. In the name of asking them to vote for women’s safety and empowerment, ask them to come out and vote. Then you will start seeing the positive results,” Modi told BJP’s women cadres during his third interactive video conference sessions with various wings of the party’s Karnataka unit.
 
 In an audio-visual presentation, Modi put up two photographs: one showing Sitharaman at a world defence ministers’ meet and another showing Sushma at the external affairs ministers conclave at   meet in China.
 
 “For BJP, be it in the organisation, administration or policy formulation, ‘women first’ is the policy. If you look at the Cabinet structure also, capable women have been given key portfolios. Two photogrpahs from the recent SCO meeting in China went viral on social media. These photos were of external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj and Karnataka’s own MP Nirmala Sitharaman... the sole women amidst a group of global ministers,” he said.
 
 Modi claimed that his was the only government that considered giving   awards to unknown women who have dedicated themselves to a cause.
 
 “I would like to recall that recently our government gave Padma Shri award to Sitavva Jodatti from Belagavi, who has dedicated her life for the upliftment of women,” Modi said. He also pointed out that Sulagitti Narasamma, 97, a midwife who has overseen 15,000 deliveries in the last 70 years in and around Tumakuru, too was honoured with Padma Shri.
 
 During his 45-minute interaction, Modi recalled the schemes implemented by BS Yeddyurappa’s BJP government such as Bhagyalakshmi, Bala Sanjeevani and free cycles for girl students.
 
 
 
 Calling PM Modi’s interaction with BJP women workers on empowerment a “tokenism”, CM Siddaramaiah asked him to learn from Karnataka on the subject, “cut bhashan (speech) and promote action”. Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets, listed out various initiatives of his government for women. “Tokenism Modi ji. Real empowerment comes from real policies,” he tweeted. 
 
