JAIPUR : State BJP president   recently assured residents of Jawahar Nagar   that they would be rehabilitated at the spot of their current residence.   (JMC) has even sought that the slum, which has come up on forest land, be converted to a residential area.

 At a press conference on Tuesday, members of the Rajasthan Kachi Basti Mahasangh – union of slum dwellers across the state – questioned the unfair treatment of residents in other slums.
 
 Harkesh Bugalia, a leader of the slum dwellers, said, “We all know how the residents of   were forcibly evicted and the whole slum razed to rubble. In 2012, the state government brought out a policy statement saying it would rehabilitate slum dwellers in situ. The   government in 2015 too issued a policy statement that sought in situ rehab of slum dwellers. Yet, that policy is selectively implemented.” 
 
 Mushtaq Qureshi, who was among those evicted from Khadda Basti, said, “What happened to our homes must not happen to people like us in other parts of the city.” He called for in situ rehabilitation of dwellers of all 308 slums in the city.
 
 All speakers said that the BJP president had mentioned just one slum and offered it in situ rehabilitation. Bugalia said, “Was Khadda Basti demolished because of the perception that it does not vote BJP? Are not all citizens governed by the same laws? Do we not follow the Constitution?”
 
 He said that in the name of  , people in slums were being dispossessed of their homes in the city and pushed to remote areas from where they spend a large chunk of earnings just commuting to work.
 
 Bugalia said that during a recent visit to Pune, he saw how the Lohia Colony slum was being re-developed keeping in mind the needs of residents. “Many slum dwellers have goats or chickens – these are sources of earnings for them, their ATMs. At Lohia Colony in Pune, space was provided for these animals too. This was possible because residents were consulted at every stage, they were represented in the planning process. Why cannot this be replicated in other states?”
 
 
