PATIALA: Despite the tough stance adopted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), various courts and persistent efforts being put in by state agencies to curtail crop residue burning, the   farmers are still continuing with the practice. Last year, a total of 13,441 instances of stubble burning during the wheat harvest had been detected using satellite imagery, where an environmental compensation of Rs 61.47 lakhs had been imposed. This year, the state authorities have spotted 11,005 cases of stubble burning till May 22. Fresh figures are still awaited.

 Maximum cases have been reported from Amritsar, where 1,033 instances were caught. 950 cases were found in  , followed by 823 in Firozpur district. Besides, 777 cases were seen via satellite in Bathinda and 765 in Moga. The least number of cases were reported from Mohali where 28 farm fires were detected followed by Ropar with 74 cases, and 122 cases each were spotted in Pathankot and Fatehgarh Sahib districts.
 
 Punjab has managed already managed to get an additional grant of Rs 685 crore approved by the Centre to fund efforts to encourage the farmers to give up the practice of setting the crop stubble on fire. Punjab health minister   said chief minister   was serious to provide an alternate to the state farmers for residue management.
 
 The funds from the Centre will be spent on setting up 12 demonstration clusters for 1,000 villages each along, with centres from where the farmers can hire straw management machinery. Besides this, a state-level centre would also be set up to coordinate all these activities.
 
 In December last year, the Union government had allocated 40% share of a Rs 100-crore grant for a regional project to mitigate the effects of stubble burning on air quality and soil health to Punjab under the National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change (NAFCC) to Punjab. While, the rest was given to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
 
 The   (PAU), state agriculture department and the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) are also working in tandem to evolve lasting solutions to the problem of stubble burning which is having a devastating effect on the state’s ecology and increasing the requirement for fertilisers since residue burning kills the healthy soil bacteria affecting its fertility. 
 
 PPCB chairman   said the solution to stop straw burning was not just restricted to creating awareness amongst farmers. “Dealing with stubble is a continuous process and more efforts are needed to establish a system under which the farmers give up burning of the crop residue. This can be done only by providing the farmers with means to convert crop residue into a source of income,” Pannu said.
 
 
