MANALI: The upper reaches of Himachal Pradesh received heavy snowfall on Friday, triggering cold-like conditions in parts of the state. The   highway was blocked as Rohtang Pass received 40cm snow, said a BRO official.

 Temperature in many towns dipped below the freezing point. Having received 5mm of snow, Lahaul and Spiti district headquarters Keylong recorded a minimum temperature of -0.3°C.According to the meteorological department, it has been snowing in the higher reaches of Kullu, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kinnaur, and Kangra since Thursday.
 
 Koksar and Sissu, located in Lahaul valley, received 15cm and 8cm snow, respectively. Marhi and Gulaba, two tourist spots near Manali, got 20 and 10cm fresh snow, respectively.
 
 All over, minimum temperature has fallen 1°C-2°C across the state. While Una, in lower plains of Himachal, recorded day temperature of 38°C, Manali, Kalpa and Shimla recorded night temperatures of 3°C, 3.6°C and 10.8°C, respectively.
 
 There was a hailstorm in Manali, while most other parts of the state received rain. Udaipur, Mandi, Sujanpur Tira and Seobagh received 23mm, 19mm, 17mm and 16mm rain, respectively. Bhuntar received 12mm rain.
 
 There was 7mm rain in Bijahi, Jogindernagar, Gohar and Salooni each, while Aghar and Solan received 5mm each. There was 4mm rain in Nagrota, Suriyan, Palampur, Kalpa, Dalhousie, Dehra, Gopipur and Bhoranj each, and 3mm rain in Nadaun, Kasauli, Pooh, Bharmaur, Renuka, Pachhad, Janjehli and Rohru.
 
 The entire Lahaul and Spiti, Pangi, Bharmaur, Manali and parts of Kinnaur are again reeling under cold. The Meteorological Centre, Shimla, has predicted more snow and thundershowers after May 25. Fruit growers are scared with possibility of heavy hailstorm damaging the crop.
 
 The snowfall has also disturbed snow-clearance operations of Border Roads Organisation (BRO). BRO has already cleared snow from Rohtang three times this season and set a May 8 deadline for clearing snow on the entire Manali-Leh highway. BRO’s commander at 38 Border Road Task Force, Col AK Awasthi, said, “Snow has again blocked Rohtang Pass. If weather permits, we will try to reopen it by Saturday. Otherwise, it will take another day,” he said.
 
 
