AMRITSAR: The Union government’s directive last year asking respective district authorities to collect   of relatives of Indian men abducted in Iraq had generated both hope and despair in Punjab.

 A few of the families had been elated over possibility that a group of people had been found in some Iraq jail after the fall of the Islamic State in Mosul and felt that the government wanted to confirm their identity by with help of DNA. However, others had questioned why the government required DNA samples to identify living persons.
 
 An inconsolable  , a resident of Phillaur whose brother Nand Lal and son   were among 39 Indians shot dead by the IS, told TOI on Tuesday: “I was hopeful that the Iraqi government had found some persons and they wanted to match their DNA with their relatives. I never thought, even for a second, that they had already died.”
 
 Even  , a resident of Chavinda Devi near Amritsar, expressed similar views. His brother Sonu was among the 39 Indians killed by the IS. “When I had gone to give my DNA samples, no one even expressed the possibility that they had died. Everyone was saying that they are about to arrive home,” Hira said.
 
 However, Askand Bikram Singh, younger brother of Sandeep Kumar and a resident of Bihar’s Siwan district, said his family had suspected that some unfortunate incident had occurred when the district administration had contacted them for DNA samples. Yet, he said, there was some hope left.
 
 Echoing Askand’s views, Raman Kumar, a resident of Passu near   in Himachal Pradesh, said he was suspicious when government collected DNA samples. His brother  , a JCB operator had gone to Mosul to earn money. “But all this time, I was always hopeful of his return,” he said.
 
 Gurpinder Kaur, a resident of Bhoewal village, whose brother Manjinder was among those killed, said she had given her DNA sample in November 2017, but no one told her family why the samples were being collected. She said it is unfortunate that they were kept in dark even then.
 
 
