Puducherry: Lieutenant governor   has warned the private   colleges and deemed   flouting   in the   of students in   medical and   courses of stringent legal and administrative action. 

 The lieutenant governor in a WhatsApp message on Friday further warned that any violations on the part of the private   and deemed universities in the admission of students cleared by the centralised admission committee will lead to ‘serious consequences’. 
 
 Bedi, who held a meeting on Friday to review the ongoing postgraduate medical and dental admission, appreciated the territorial officials for launching all-out efforts in ensuring fair and transparent admission process. 
 
 “This time (the academic year 2018-19) the consequences for non-compliance (by the private medical colleges and deemed universities), if any, will be very severe including contempt, criminal and administrative action against the colleges,” Bedi said while quoting an official.
 
 She said a senior official went a step further and insisted on sealing one of the premises of the colleges that flout the admission rules. 
 
 “We should resort to sealing one of their main premise which may cater to first year students... also the health department should let the colleges know of these consequences,” Bedi said while quoting the senior official.
 
  coordinator (admissions) Rudra Goud said 17 postgraduate medical seats (12 under government quota and five under management quota) and eight postgraduate dental seats (seven under government quota and one under management) were filled after round one of the admission process that concluded by 3pm on April 20. 
 
 He said Centac received fees from these 25 students (17 postgraduate medical and eight postgraduate dental) and transferred the fees to the respective colleges by e-transfers, cheques and demand drafts.
 
 Goud said a few students reported that some colleges have been refusing admission despite the committee allotting seats for them. 
 
 Citing a Supreme Court order, he said the colleges have to admit the students once they deposit the fees with the counselling authority (Centac). 
 
 “…as per the judgement of the hon’ble Supreme Court in Das-us-Slam case, once the fee is deposited with the counselling authority, the candidates are deemed to have been admitted. Therefore, Centac will not conduct counselling for all these seats where students have paid fees. Refusal of admission despite payment of fees will amount to non-compliance of the hon’ble Supreme Court’s order. Stringent action as per guidelines will be initiated against those colleges which refuse/deny admission,” Goud warned.
 
 
