COIMBATORE: Walkers at Race Course can soon get a full view of the   lake as the city corporation is planning to connect the area with the lake under the ‘Smart City’ project.

 The civic body has planned to set up a multipurpose centre in the 9,000sqm area at a cost of Rs 23.8 crore. It will have skill centres, offices, green spaces, parks and restaurants. 
 
 A promenade will be set at Valankulam lake on the side facing the road. The promenade will be 560m in area and set up at a cost of Rs 24.3 crore. “This promenade will help people enjoy the ecology, green space and view of the lake. This will be connected to the walkers’ area at Race Course,” said an official.
 
 The corporation planned to connect the area to the lake so that people can cycle, walk and jog easily to the lake. “It will be a greenway. When ‘Happy Streets’ were organized by TOI at Scheme Road, at least 2,000 people participated in it every Sunday. So, we want this population to make use of these infrastructures that will be set up,” said one of the corporation engineers working on the project.
 
 The city corporation has already taken steps to roll out five projects - a museum in place of Sungam Bus Depot, an open canal with lights in place of   bus depot, an urban biodiversity park at   lake, a nature centre near Ukkadam lake and a wetland centre at TNAU.
 
 “People will be able to cycle or walk to these locations only if we connect them. There are two roads from the lake to Race Course that are 800m and 700m long each. We will use these roads and create a green space. The promenade will be connected to Race Course via Sungam Junction. Another connection will be near the   and Hospital. We will also study if similar green ways can be set up between the lake and Race Course on Trichy Road. Once the pay and use cycles will be set up, people can take these cycles and go to the lake promenade and enjoy the view,” said an engineer.
 
 The officials are working on the proposal and once the designs are ready, this will be passed by the ‘Smart City’ board soon, said the consultants working on the project. 
 
 
