AJMERr: Thousands of devotees from across the country offered the Jumme ki Namaz during 806th   of   in   on Friday and wished harmony and peace in the country. The old city had the maximum rush and there were long queues of devotees from   to Dhan Mandi and also towards Nullah Bazaar. Friday prayers are a special occasion during Urs.

 Since morning, there were long queues of devotees waiting to enter the dargah for namaz. Around noon, the dargah premises were jam-packed so the devotees went to Arkat ka Dalhan, Baba Fareed Chilla, Akhbari Masjid and nearby places to offer namaz.
 
 Communal harmony was at display when Hindu and Sindhi shopkeepers in Dargah Bazaar, Nullah Bazaar and Delhi Gate brought bedsheets for devotees who wanted to perform prayers on the road. Many also provided drinking water to devotees waiting in queues. At 1.30pm, the prayers started. Traffic at railway station and Mahaveer Circle was diverted as all roads were blocked.
 
 This year, for the first time women devotees offered prayers in the women corridor constructed recently. The biggest desire of every devotee is to go inside the   which opens during Urs. It is the place where the Sufi saint spent his last days.
 
 The fence of Jannati Darwaza is filled with applications of devotees who write them down and tie them on the fence. Thousands of applications can be seen tied with mannati dhaga. The rush will increase in the coming days as the Chatty (main occasion of Urs) is on Tuesday. Looking to the rush, the railways started a special train which started from Madar satellite railway station instead of Ajmer railway station.
 
 Pakistan delegation is not participating in the Urs due to tense bilateral relations between the two countries.
 
 According to administration, medical and health facilities and low-price food packets are available. Moreover, buses from different vishram sthalis to dargah are available. Executive magistrates are deputed to maintain law and order along with around 7,000 police personnel .
 
 
