BHOPAL: As the state government has decided to implement dress code for teachers from the new academic session, teachers are wondering who is going to pay for the uniform. While the air is thick with speculations teachers might be asked to bear expenses, the   on Friday sought to clear the air saying the decision has not been taken yet.

 “We received the order, but nobody told us who is going to pay for it. We were unofficially toldwewillhave tobear theexpenses,” said a delegation of government school teachers.
 
 Commissioner of directorate of public instructions (DPI)   Told TOI the state government needs to take a decision.
 
 “We raised the question with higher authorities and it is a must-know query. We also needtoknowwho wouldbe paying for the dress as it has not been cleared by the state government,” Dubey said.
 
 He said the DPI has not received response for the same from higher-ups so far. “We are waiting for the response from higher-ups and as soon as we get answer, teacher would be informed about it. We haven’t asked them to bear expenses,” he said.
 
 Teachers in the state will have to follow a uniform dress code — maroon jacket for women and navy blue for men — from the next academic session, according to an order issued by the state education department earlier this month.
 
 The order said how teachers dressisimportant as the directive is to bring uniformi-In addition to the dress code, the teachers will have to put a name badge on their jacket with ‘Rashtra Nirmata’ (nation builder) written on it. Citing the   Samvarg (service conduct conditions) Rules 2008, the order said it is expected from women teachers to wear a maroon jacket, and men a navy blue jacket.
 
 The order stated teachers play an important role in shaping future of thecountry and how they dress is significant. “For this, the dress plays an important role. The dress not only brings uniformity, but also ends personality differences,” it said.
 
 Citing the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Adhyapak conduct rules 2008, Dwivedi makes a case for the dress code. Sources said the DPI had got the dress designed by   (NIFT). But senior officials got it done by Mrignayani.
 
 School education minister Vijay Shah had earlier told TOI the state would become a pioneering state to introdue a dresscodefor teachers and the aim isto give teachers an identity of rashtra nirmata’ (nation builder).
 
