MUMBAI: Police officials from Amboli and Saki Naka zeroed in on six suspects, including teachers, in the   paper leaks case within 10 hours of manually tracking the mobile numbers of 17 students, including two major SSC repeaters aged 18 and 21, to reach the source of the malpractice committed between March 10 and 22. 

 Meanwhile, Saki Naka cops have got technical help to track a few more suspects in the information communication technology (ICT)   leak of March 22, despite four of the accused, including the kingpin, being in Amboli police custody from March 20. In both cases registered at Amboli and Saki Naka police stations, cops claim to have found a common factor for the leak: Popularizing classes and ensuring higher enrolment.
 
 During the probe, cops first checked the   numbers of a boy from Andheri and a girl from Saki Naka, both aged 15, who were caught by invigilators after they were spotted checking their phones and referring to their books around 10.35am on March 19 for the history and political science paper and on March 22 for ICT, respectively. 
 
 “The two students’ phones were seized and it was found that they had received the papers from their friends. We decoded the trail and managed to arrest the accused who had leaked the papers,” said an officer.
 
 Saki Naka police, probing the ICT paper leak, have found that the 18-year-old SSC repeater received the five question papers between March 10 and 22 from his uncle, IT engineering student Anwarun Hasan (22) who is arrested by Amboli police on March 21. “He received the ICT paper from an SSC repeater aged 21. We have kept his phone on surveillance to trace the source of the leak,” said a cop.
 
 The   came to light when an invigilator from Andheri’s MVM Swami Muktanand High School noticed students check their books after glancing at their phones before the March 19 history and political science exam. Daya Nayak, officer from Amboli police station, tracked the route of paper circulation and nabbed kingpin Firoz Khan (47), a maths teacher from Mumbra. In Saki Naka case, two tutors were caught on March 22.
 
 
