For years, the only public social event for the LGBTQI community in the city used to be the annual pride parade. Other events or meetings were private gatherings, that only a few would know about through word of mouth, and the venue was not disclosed. However, in the last one year, though status quo prevails so far as the legal standing of Section 377 is concerned, there has been a definite increase in the number of queer-friendly events and gigs in the city. From '  Thursdays', 'Pink Tuesdays' and 'C U Next Thursdays' to special gala nights for the LGBTQI community, restaurants in the city are coming up with concepts to create an "inclusive space where everyone is welcome and no one feels intimidated or fear being judged."

  These events are listed on social media pages of restaurants and have also proved to be good for their business.
 
 
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
 
 Kitty Su was among the first venues in Delhi to host queer-friendly events with its weekly C U Next Thursday parties, which started soon after the Orlando nightclub shooting in 2016. "The incident was more than shocking and we thought that it was high time that we have a gender agnostic space where everyone is welcome. We wanted to make these the most talked-about   in the city and they have been a huge hit among Delhiites, and we have even had performances by Indian drag queens," says hotelier Keshav Suri, who started the weekly event. 
 
  Within a few months, more restaurants came up with weekly queer-friendly nights. Vikas Narula, co-owner of Depot 48, which started Pink Tuesday a few months back, is overwhelmed by the response it got. "We wanted to provide a place where people of any gender can come and have a good conversation over drinks, enjoy the music and have a good time."
 
  Vikas adds, "Like the idea of Ladies' Night is to encourage women to come out and enjoy themselves, the idea of Pink Tuesday is to provide a safe place for the queer community, where they can meet their friends and have conversations without the fear of judgement. There is definitely more awareness now, and even our regular guests love Pink Tuesdays." He says that every Tuesday, they have a small banner outside their restaurant with '#OneLove' written on a rainbow flag. 
 
  Rainbow Thursday, which started last year at PDA, will be back from January 11, and Fursat Se, a café in Shahpur Jat which used to have poetry sessions, stand-up comedy and other events for the queer community, will also be back soon. The owners of Fursat Se Cafe had to shut down the restaurant a few months back due to lack of funds.
 
  Chef Ritu Dalmia, who came up with Rainbow Thursday at PDA, says, "The artwork on the facade just outside the restaurant has a clear message – celebrating love of all kinds. The equality sign at the entrance speaks for itself. The space welcomes the LGBTQI community but it is more than that. It is a space that embraces all forms of love – whether it is labelled straight,  , queer or trans. We came up with Rainbow Thursdays to invite people from the LGBTQI community to host and curate the bar for that evening. The idea was simply to spread the message that this is a friendly, inclusive space that is open to everyone. We are restarting the series from January 11."
 
 
  
 
  
 While these restaurants and nightclubs are promoting equality with these events, it is also a smart business idea that can draw tourists and the expat community in NCR. "These queer-friendly parties and gigs are a hit among tourists, some of whom are surprised that they can find such parties here. All these special nights that have started in Delhi in the last few months have been a huge success in terms of business, and many expats attend them. They also get popular quickly because they have an interesting line-up, good music, or stand-up comedy sessions," says Mohnish Malhotra, a gay rights activist who has attended many such parties. 
 
 
  
 
 
  Amrita Bhasin, one of the founders of Fursat Se, says that the USP of their café has always been poetry sessions, reading sessions and other activities that are planned for each day of the week. "Each activity in the café is planned to make sure that it is LGBTQI-inclusive. Ever since we started, we always had packed sessions. Now that we will be reopening soon, we have already started working on our event calendar," says Amrita. 
 
  Anchit Kapil, co-owner of Summerhouse Café, which hosted an LGBTQI gala last year and is planning it again this year for Valentine’s Day, says, "The response to our gala night was outstanding and basis that response, we are planning to have the party again this year on Valentine’s Day."
 
  
 When Vikas and his business partner came up with the idea of Pink Tuesdays, the only apprehension they had was how their staff would react to it. "As far as the authorities are concerned, it is just like any other party, as people from all walks of life attend these. We have never faced any problem. When we are following every rule applicable for the restaurant industry, there is no reason why anyone would have an objection. All we did before starting with this concept was conduct special training for our staff to make them more aware about the idea of equality for the LGBTQI community,"
 
  
  
 
 
