RAMANAGARA: JD(S) state president   has sworn to defeat chief minister   in Chamundeshwari and is holding a series of roadshows there. In retaliation, Siddaramaiah has fielded strong candidates in two JD(S) strongholds and is making Kumaraswamy sweat for success.

 Siddaramaiah has given a ticket to former zilla panchayat president Iqbal Hussain from  , while his close associate and transport minister HM Revanna will contest from  .
 
 Kumaraswamy had said he’d contest from Ramanagara and Channapatna segments and challenged Siddaramaiah that he’d win in both easily. He had said he’ll campaign for a couple of days unlike his road shows in Chamundeshwari.
 
 There were reports that Congress leader DK Shivakumar and Kumaraswamy had come to an agreement to defeat their common opponent former minister and sitting MLA from Channapatna CP Yogeshwar.
 
 Congress was expected to field a weak candidate in Channapatna and support Kumaraswamy to defeat Yogeshwar. It was believed that Congress would select DK Shivakumar’s brother-in-law Sharat Chandra or district Congress president Gangadhar who had even started campaigning.
 
 But when Kumaraswamy challenged Siddaramaiah to defeat him from Chamundeshwari and JD(S) candidate GT Deve Gowda saying he’d end Siddaramaiah’s political career in this election, the   is taking the challenge seriously.
 
 Siddaramaiah gave Revanna a ticket even though he was reportedly reluctant. The plan was that while Congress will take away Ahinda votes, Yogeshwar and HD Kumaraswamy would struggle to retain their loyal votes. It’ll be a win-win situation for Congress. For Revanna, it’s the same as he’ll be an MLA if he wins and will continue as an MLC if he loses. 
 
 It’s believed there’ll be a triangular fight between three candidates in Channapatna. Party observers said JD(S) will have to resolve internal differences to put up a fight in these segments.
 
 Kumaraswamy will have to fight hard in Ramanagara as Congress candidate Iqbal is expected to retain the majority of Ahinda votes. “If Iqbal can win over Vokkaligas, he can win. He has already campaigned in rural areas and hopes to garner minority votes,” said Congress leaders.
 
 Kumaraswamy is busy campaigning in Chamundeshwari, leaving wife Anita Kumaraswamy to campaign for him in both segments which has disappointed JD(S) workers, party workers from the district said.
 
 
