TIRUPUR: Chief minister   has written to Prime Minister   urging the Central government’s intervention to  . Without directly mentioning that measures taken post GST implementation have also played a role in weakening the readymade garment (RMG) sector, Palaniswami wanted the centre to increase the rate of duty drawback and clear pending rebate on state levies (RoSL) dues of Rs 500 crore to be given to the cluster.

 In the letter dated May 22, the CM said, “In the last decade, countries like Bangladesh, Vietnam and Sri Lanka have overtaken India in RMG international market. Especially, the eastern neighbour Bangladesh has four times bigger market share than our country. Many of such countries were enjoying different advantages in the market. For instances, Sri Lanka was accorded as generalised scheme of preferences (GSP) plus by the European Union, so that the island nation could export apparels to EU countries without payment of import duty. Ethiopia, which is one of the emerging textile manufacturing nations, has free trade access with the United States. At the same time, Indian apparel exports to US are subjected to a levy of 11.40%.”
 
 “Moreover, while Indian exporters are levied import duty on yarn used to produce garments that are to be exported, countries including Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Ethiopia levy no such duty,” he mentioned.
 
 Without mentioning about implementation of GST, Palaniswami said since July 1, 2017, RoSL is slashed from 3.5% to 1.7%, and also 0.21% of the service tax component of drawback was removed. Besides, duty drawback was reduced from 7.5% to 2-2.5%.
 
 The CM requested that “In order to cover all of these issues and provide competitive edge over other countries, the Central government should increase duty drawback to 5%. And also the pending dues of RoSL, which has not been cleared since May 2017, entitled to be given to Tirupur cluster alone touched around Rs 500 crore. So, it also should be cleared.”
 
 Thanking the CM for forwarding their representation, vice-chairman of the Apparel Export Promotion Council A Sakthivel told TOI that “There will be possibilities for entering free trade agreement (FTA) with EU and also comprehensive economic partnership agreement (CEPA) with Canada and Australia, in apparel sector. The central government should take quick steps for such agreements.”
 
 Tirupur Exporters’ Association president Raja M Shanmugham said, “With such positive measures coupled with unveiling of integrated   textile policy, the rejuvenation of the textile sector in the state will become possible.”
 
 
