JAIPUR: The Sodala police on Wednesday registered a case against the teacher of a private school after a Class IX student committed suicide alleging harassment and insult by the tutor.

 Sodala SHO   told TOI that Nitant Lata (14) was found hanging inside his room, under the limits of Sodala police station on April 26. A suicide note was also recovered from his room in which the student alleged that he was harassed and insulted in front of other students.
 
 “His parents were also summoned by the school, but before the meeting, he hanged himself. We are carrying out a probe into the matter,” Sharma said.
 
 Rajkumar Lata, father of the deceased, said that his son was a student of St Xavier’s School located in Nevta. “I don’t know what exactly pushed him to take such an extreme step. But he had been very depressed. He had bunked a few classes and was caught by a teacher. He told his mother that the teacher had hurled abuses at him,” he added.
 
 “On April 25, he returned home from the school. He looked dejected and remained quiet for several hours. We comforted him and asked him to calm down. He went to bed at 12.30am, around 4 am he was found hanging by my mother,” deceased’ father said. 
 
 Lata was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead by the doctors; the hospital informed the police about the incident. The parents of the deceased handed over a complaint to the police. A suicide note was also recovered from his room. A case under section 306 (Abetment of suicide) of   has been registered.
 
 “The case is being investigated, we are recording the statements before taking any action,” said the official. The school authorities, however, said that Lata was caught bunking classes by the PT teacher who reported the incident to higher authorities.
 
 ‘We had also asked his parents to come to the school. When we asked him about why he was bunking classes, he said he was not interested in studies,” said an official of the school on condition of anonymity.
 
 
