If you take a gander at décor trends now, it’s all about celebrating imperfection. There’s a rise of wooden furniture with rough textures, wobbly-shaped pottery and not-so-uniform prints. In fact, Ikea’s new Industriell collection — in collaboration with Dutch designer Piet Hein Eek — incorporates the idea of “intentional mistakes”. It’s the wabi-sabi way – and it’s not only a way of life but also design. Agrees architect Ashiesh Shah and says, “I use wabi-sabi philosophy in my vision of space and the choice of materials. If you look at my spaces, you see the element of finished and unfinished. I appreciate spaces that incorporate natural objects and processes.” 

  
  
 
 In the era of Instagram filters, where even bathroom selfies are pruned and filtered before posting, wabi-sabi urges you to go in the opposite direction. In her book, Wabi-Sabi Welcome, author Julie Pointer Adams writes about using mismatched stoneware or glassware, setting the table with rumpled linen napkins, or decorating the house with big, unruly bunches of wildflowers and weeds. Think tables with rough edges or cutting boards with burn marks or ceramics that are not perfect. 
 
 But wabi-sabi is also about reusing stuff, repairing it and even upcycling it. A philosophy espoused by Bengaluru’s Repair Café – run by Purna Sarkar Das and Antara Mukherji. Here, you can get broken appliances, clothing, jewellery, garden equipment and a few pieces of furniture fixed over a cup of coffee. Mukherji says, “Repairing is a dying philosophy. Nowadays, we don’t fix things but replace them. Our cafe aims to change that.”
 
 If you want to follow this décor philosophy, simply look for the prefect imperfection. Go for raw concrete walls, and leave the bricks untouched. Interior decorator Natasha Kalra says, “The look also allows using chipped wallpaper. Even that brass lamp that has aged and oxidised adds character to your home.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Yusuke Akai, a Japanese artist makes ceramic products such as mugs, plates and bowls and repairs their damaged plates with a technique known as “kintsugi” – a traditional Japanese technique that “literally glues the broken pieces together with gold, and allows you to cherish your favourite, damaged dishware.”
 
  
  
 Mismatch much: an unfinished bench; a cemented wall; an untouched brick wall; and rough stoneware all signify the ethos of wabi-sabi.
 
 
 
 
