KOLKATA: A day after a customer was allegedly stripped off his clothes at a restaurant in   for non-payment of bills, local restaurant owners and patrons on Sunday reacted with shock and disbelief. The police are conducting a probe into Saturday’s incident when traffic cops intercepted a naked man running down the street near Parama Island and recorded his statement.

 Lichuan Chan, the restaurant owner and his staffer   were arrested for wrongfully restraining the victim and committing public nuisance. They were released on bail on Sunday. The restaurant, sources said, has reportedly been in some financial trouble ever since its actual owner, Chan’s brother, passed away a few months ago.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Most restaurant owners in China Town came to know about the incident on Sunday morning. “There are days when we get customers who fail to pay their bills. Either they forget to bring their wallets or their cards don’t work. But we will never allow any staff member to behave disrespectfully. If any restaurant does so, it will earn a bad name and lose business,” said  , owner of Beijing restaurant.
 
 The incident took locals by surprise.  , a local resident, said such incidents were unheard of in China Town. “There are instances when a group or a family comes to have food. In case they fail to pay at the restaurant, one of them goes back home and brings money. That has been the practice so far,” she said.
 
 A software executive, who wished not to be named, said it was a problem that there weren’t many ATMs in the zone if one fell short of cash. “But rarely does one go alone here,” he argued.
 
 On Saturday around 5.30pm, the 42-year-old Beliaghata resident told police that he came to the restaurant in a cab and asked the staff to pay the fare. “He said he did not have change and asked us to include the amount in his bill. When a staff member was going out to pay the cab driver, the customer asked him to bring back a pack of cigarettes as well. Since he is a regular patron, nobody doubted his intentions,” said a staff member of the restaurant who did not want to be named.
 
 After he finished the meal, the man tried to pay by card. When that failed, he said he forgot to get cash and allegedly asked the restaurant authorities to accompany him home to get the money — around Rs 1,500. The staff allegedly refused and an argument started. The staff then allegedly asked the customer to strip his clothes off before going to get the money. He was also threatened with dire consequences, the man alleged. TOI could not speak to the person.
 
 Police said they were probing the statement. “The man has said he had been going to the restaurant for the past 12 years. How could such an old customer be harassed by the owners? We are also inquiring if he owed more money to the restaurant,” said an officer.
 
