ALLAHABAD: The   and Promotion Board has decided to conduct the examination to recruit police constables under CCTV surveillance. Over 22.5 lakh examinees will take the exam at 860 centres across the state on June 18 and 19. 

 Moreover, the name of the city and centre will be disclosed to the candidates just 14 and three days respectively before the exam. 
 
 SP (Protocol) Purnendu Singh said, “The exam to directly recruit police constables would be held on June 18 and 19 in four sessions and candidates would get admit cards in two parts. The name of the city and exam centre will be dispatched separately to the candidates.”
 
 He added that all the examination centres will be under CCTV surveillance and only 24 candidates would be seated in a single exam room. 
 
 “Besides, candidates would not be allowed to take mobile or any other electronic gadget, shoes, etc., in the room. The invigilators would collect biometric data of the candidates during the exams as well,” he informed.
 
 Singh said that invigilators too would be barred from carrying mobile phones inside the examination hall and communication would be done through wireless sets only. 
 
 The team of invigilators would comprise of a SHO rank police officer, two sub-inspectors and a woman constable. The SHO or inspector rank police officer, who would act as observer, will also carry a weapon.
 
 At the outer circle of every examination centre, adequate police force, including two sub-inspectors and 10 constables, would be deployed to maintain law and order. 
 
 Similarly, one SHO rank police officer would supervise 10 centres. At every 20 centres, a deputy SP rank officer along with a mobile party would supervise the exams. Besides, UP Dial 100 vehicle would also be stationed at every centre.
 
 As examinations will be held during peak summer season, medical services would also be provided at the centres.
 
 Allahabad zone comprising Allahabad, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Kaushambi, Mahoba and Banda districts will have 88 centres where over 2.36 lakh candidates would take the exam. The highest number of candidates — more than four lakh — would appear in Varanasi zone.
 
 
