CHENNAI: A drug-testing laboratory in   has become the first empanelled facility of its kind to be blacklisted by Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation — which found that the lab could have been falsifying reports and endangering the lives of patients in government hospitals in the state.

 TNMSC, which procures and distributes drugs to state-run hospitals, debarred   in December after it failed a probe by officials who, suspicious of incongruities in its reports, probed the reliability of its tests with a proxy drug. 
  
 
 “Deemed to be spurious,” the lab — a Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation-accredited facility, headquartered at SCO No. 41, Sector 12A, Gurgaon — will not receive work from any government in the country for at least two years, officials told TOI.
 
 Regarding Shagun’s blacklisting, TNMSC managing director P Umanath said, “The lab cannot participate in tenders or make bids as well.”
 
 TNMSC officials said they first grew wary of the Gurugram lab in 2016, when it approved of the quality of various drugs that other labs had rejected as substandard. Then, they observed, the lab’s reports contained significant discrepancies from reports by other state-empanelled labs on multiple occasions in 2016.
 
 Officials in the corporation decided to test credibility of the laboratory, to which it dispatched drugs, including lifesaving antibiotics, antipsychotic and sedative drugs, for testing. They sent a proxy drug under the label of Risperidone, an antipsychotic medication. The lab failed to detect the absence of the active ingredient of   in the sample and approved the drug, stating that it was of standard quality.
 
 The corporation issued Shagun Testing Laboratory notices and blacklisted them after a panel found explanations, which the lab offered in the wake of flunking the test, to be unsatisfactory.
 
 When contacted, a Shagun Testing Laboratory spokesman told TOI: “We followed the standard protocol but [TNMSC] has not considered our explanation.”
 
 Shagun officials refused to be quoted. But the spokesman said that the lab had submitted all necessary documents and proof to the TNMSC to show that it “followed pharmacopeia standards and tested the drugs as per compendial methods”.
 
 Officials said Shagun Testing Laboratory was one of 12 drug-testing facilities that the TNMSC selected via a tender in 2015 to check the quality of drugs before releasing them to government hospitals. TNMSC had earlier empanelled the lab between 2010 and 2011.
 
 To ensure quality of the drugs used in government hospitals and clinics, TNMSC encodes the identities of drugs and sends sends samples from every batch to multiple empanelled laboratories for tests.
 
 In 2015, when the laboratory was back on the state empanelled list, it was asked test a several types of drugs including antibiotic, antiprotozol, antipsychotic and sedative drugs. Its tenure ended in February, 2017 but TNMSC extended its work, at the same rates, till July, 2017. Officials said they caught the lab for dubious reports during the extended period.
 
 “We stopped giving drugs to the laboratory as soon as TNMSC figured out that its testing process was of substandard quality,” a senior official said.
 
 Officials said Shagun was the first empanelled lab that TNMSC had blacklisted; it had in the past debarred only brands, equipment and pharmaceuticals or manufacturers.
 
 In the past year, for instance, TNMSC blacklisted 38 brands of drugs and products such as needles and syringes after officials subjected them to standard quality control processes and found them substandard. It blacklisted seven manufacturing firms from across the country for producing substandard drugs and devices over the past year.
 
