VISAKHAPATNAM: The government is planning to build a multi-industrial park, with eco-friendly infrastructure and facilities, in  . The fresh proposal is being mooted as an alternative to the old greenfield   ( ) — a project which was officially announced two years ago but is still gathering dust due to lack of response from private players to the Expression of Interest (EoI) floated in July 2016.

 The government, in collaboration with the union ministry of electronics and information technology, had proposed the setting up of the EMC. The state-owned AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation Limited (APIIC) had even identified 98.83 acres of land at   in  , in   district for the EMC project.
 
 With the project, announced in 2016, getting no response from anchor units till date, the authorities concerned, including the department of information technology, are presently exploring various other alternatives to gainfully utilise the 98.83 acres of the land which was earmarked for the EMC. The surprise visit of a senior official from the IT department to the Gurrampalem site in January this year has added fuel to the alternative proposal plans of the state government.
 
 Confirming this, a senior official from the state government told  : “We earmarked 99 acres of land for the setting up of the EMC at Gurrampalem. Twice we released bids inviting anchor companies to start their units at the EMC, but there was no response. So we are now thinking of alternative projects like multi-industrial park or  .”
 
 As per the guidelines of the EMC, only electronics-related companies need to be established in the cluster. But, if the EMC is converted into a multi-industrial park, any company can start their units there. “By using the same land of 99 acres, we are now exploring various possibilities, and are thinking of a multi-industrial project. The only difference is that the EMC is an official project, while the multi-industrial is unofficial and has to be studied from various angles including at the CM’s level,” said a senior bureaucrat.
 
 It may be mentioned that the state government had in 2016 promised four EMCs in the state including one in Vizag and three in Tirupati.
 
 
