Nagpur: Officials from Germany’s KfW development bank, which is funding the Metro rail project, said its progress has been faster than some of the similar works carried out in their country. On its viability, members of the team said no public transport project can be viable on itself and the gap will have to be plugged by the government.  The team, which included officials from Germany’s ministry of economic cooperation, was on a visit to the project on Saturday. They also took a ride on the Metro from South Airport station till Khapri. KfW will be funding the project to the tune of 500 million Euros. The funds will be released as reimbursement, on the basis of the work completed. So far, 137 million Euros have been provided for the project. KFW has the maximum share in funding the project.  “Delays are normal in projects of such size. But in this case, the delays are less than that even in the projects being implemented at Germany,” said Yasmin Tawfik, regional manager (south Asia) of KfW. To a query on the commercial viability of the project, Peter Rooney, KfW’s senior civil engineer (urban development and mobility), said even in Germany, the costs have to be plugged by the state. The proportion varies from project to project. On the high dependence on non-ticket revenue, an official said it is needed so that the tariff is kept affordable. The tickets cannot be priced above a certain level, due to which the dependence has to be on other sources of revenue. Dr Wolfram Klein, head of South Asia division in the ministry for economic cooperation at Germany, said given the population of Nagpur, a project like Metro is certainly be needed. “There are cities smaller than Nagpur in Germany where there are light rails or other mass transport systems. Initially, the distances covered are less which are eventually increased,” added Rooney. MahaMetro is also pitching with KfW to get funds for the Thane rail project and extension of Nagpur metro. Klein said a decision will be taken considering the viability and other aspects once the offer comes up. Klein said the German government is also keen to fund other projects on urban development in the country. “We don’t want to be known just as a Metro financing agency. The government is keen to fund other projects, including those like creating space for pedestrians and cyclists, or other green solutions. An arrangement is being worked out for funding electric buses in Tamil Nadu. Germany has a budget of 1 billion Euros for funding projects in India,” he said. For Nagpur Metro, he said even the feeder systems connecting Metro stations need to be developed.