KOLHAPUR: Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh leader   on Saturday warned the government against the rising clout of right wing activists, saying that the country would face isolation like Pakistan if it failed to take immediate steps. 

 "The politics of religion is giving rise to 'Hafiz Saeeds' among the Hindus and it's time the government stopped their activities,"   said while referring to the co-founder of Pakistan-based terror outfit   chief of Jama'at-ud-Da'wah.
 
 Ambedkar was in Kolhapur to meet Dalits from the Sidharthnagar area, which saw clashes between Dalits and activists led by local   MLA Rajesh Kshirsagar on January 3, the day when Ambedkar had give the Maharashtra bandh call.
 
 Launching a scathing attack on the Maharashtra government, Ambedkar said it failed to control the activities of the right wing outfits on January 1, which led to the attack on Dalits who had gathered to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle near Pune.
 
 Ambedkar said that after silent rallies by   across the state last year and counter-rallies by other communities, efforts were initiated by prominent people to bring together the two communities. "Some people have tried to paint a picture that it was a clash between Dalits and Marathas. I can firmly tell you that Dalits are not against Marathas, but are against Hindutvawadis."
 
 "Over 1,500 people from other parts of the state were bought to throw stones against the Dalits who had gathered at Koregaon Bhima. I have knowledge that these people stayed at   and Shirur a day before the attack," said Ambedkar, adding, "Hindutva outfits are trying to dominate each other and this led to the attack on Dalits at Koregaon Bhima."
 
 The Maratha outfits are planning to organise the Samata Parishad meeting to mark the historical event of the late Shahu Maharaj drinking tea made by Gangaram Kamble, who was a Dalit. 
 
 When pointed out that the outfits are trying to reach out to him with a request to preside over the Parishad, Ambedkar said he would attend the Parishad even if he is not invited.
 
 
