KOLKATA: A mob ransacked the   on Monday after the death of a cancer patient. They also assaulted Dr Pratik Sheet, an on-duty junior resident doctor. He sustained minor injuries. Police had to intervene to stop the vandalism. 

 The deceased, Gopal   (32), was brought to the hospital around 2pm on Monday. Kayal, an autorickshaw driver, was suffering from tongue cancer and was a registered patient with the hospital as he underwent radiotherapy and chemotherapy there. Kayal was again brought to the hospital on Monday as he complained of choking and respiratory distress. 
 
 His family alleged he was not attended by doctors, which led to his death. 
 
 The hospital, however, said Kayal was attended to and admitted in bed number 406 of the male ward on the fifth floor.
 
  Dr Sheet, who had been involved in the treatment of the patient, was in the OT at that moment and was released later by his seniors so that he could attend the patient. But despite the efforts, the patient, a resident of Tollygunge Road, died around 3 pm.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Soon, after his death, the mob went on a rampage damaging glass panes and other furniture in the ward. The hospital authority called in the police.
 
 According to the hospital authority, Kayal was in an advanced stage of tongue cancer and hence surgery was not possible. So, he underwent radiations and chemotherapy instead. About 10 days back, during a check-up, doctors had advised tracheostomy but the patient had refused the procedure.
 
 "The decision of tracheostomy was taken to ease the choking. But the patient himself refused and had given in writing that he does not wish to do it. He was admitted again on Monday and all possible medical attention was given to him. But given the criticality of the condition, all efforts by the medical staff failed. All allegations of medical negligence are false," said Dr Tapas Maji, director CNCI.
 
  Dr Sheet was treated and later discharged. Cops, along with local councillor intervened, to control the mob violence.
 
 
