CHENNAI:   rail is gearing up to meet the expected increase in footfalls when the Central metro station opens next month by operating trains every two-and-a-half minutes during peak hours. 

 “Operating trains every 2.5 minutes during peak hours will help office-goers who arrive at the Moore Market complex, Park or Park Town stations. However, we will increase the frequency only upon seeing the response after the Central metro station is opened,” a metro rail official said. 
 
 “We are expecting footfall to go up drastically once the station opens. So, accordingly we have decided to reduce the headway for trains.”
 
 CMRL has already planned to reduce the waiting time for passengers at the station during non-peak hours by increasing the frequency of trains from 20 minutes to five minutes.
 
 The much anticipated underground transit hub for the metro rail network in the city, Central metro station can take commuters all the way up to the airport via   as CMRL will extend its direct services. 
 
 Metro rail is already operating a direct service every 30 minutes between   and the airport. Metro trains witness peak hour traffic from 8.30am to 10.30am and from 5pm to 8.30pm.
 
 The station will also link Koyambedu, CMBT and Vadapalani metro stations. While the upper track level leading to Egmore and Nehru Park stations is expected to open in May 2018, the lower track level that will connect   will be operational by the end of this year, said officials.
 
 In February 2018, metro rail revised its timetable by increasing the frequency of trains during peak hours from 9-10 minutes to seven minutes for trains operating between Shenoy Nagar and  . 
 
 The revised schedule is between Monday and Saturday. Trains continue to run in the other line – Little Mount to the airport – every 9-10 minutes.
 
 Officials said the new timetable was introduced following a traffic survey they conducted which showed that the maximum number of office-goers travel between Shenoy Nagar and St Thomas Mount in corridor two.
 
 During non-peak hours, trains are operated every 20 minutes in the existing operational lines — Shenoy Nagar to St Thomas Mount and Little Mount to the airport. Trains run from 6am to 10pm.
 
 
