GURUGRAM: A Delhi-based activist has accused MCG chief accounts officer O P Sharma of a scam worth Rs 52 lakh. 

 In a complaint filed at the CM Window on February 21, Swaranjit Singh alleged the money was withdrawn in cash from one of MCG’s bank accounts between March 2015 and October 2016.
 
 Singh produced records of transactions from an MCG account with Axis Bank (no: 91201003969342) which shows 42 cash withdrawals by Sharma, personally or by those he authorised, without any record of these transactions showing up in MCG accounts. 
 
 “Under the Finance Act, there are no provisions to withdraw cash from government accounts. Some subsections say that in case of an emergency, cash payments can be made where an employee doesn’t have an account. However, since the Digital India drive, all staff have bank accounts,” said Singh.
 
 His complaint states entries for these transactions have neither been made in MCG’s cash books, nor are there records with MCG elsewhere. “I’ve asked for an inquiry into these transactions, as this is misuse of public money. I’ve only accessed one of the multiple bank accounts MCG maintains. It’s learnt that cash has also been withdrawn from MCG accounts in other banks, like Andhra, IndusInd and HDFC,” said Singh.
 
 It’s over a month since the complaint was filed, but the government is yet to respond. Sources within MCG, however, said an internal inquiry has already been set up in the matter.
 
 Singh believes the inaction indicates involvement of senior officials and politicians. “He was due for retirement on May 31, 2017. He was given an extension by the state cabinet. A further extension is up for approval. In a way, he has been approved to carry on with his illegal activities,” Singh alleged. 
 
 Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said, “We’ve received information about these transactions, but it’s not what is being made out to be. This money was given away under the head of loans and advances.”
 
 Sharma too denied the allegations and said the charges have been framed by another official who wants to replace him at his post. “All withdrawals were done with the commissioner’s permission, and as per provisions of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act,” said Sharma.
 
 
