NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s judgment terming the petitions raising suspicions over judge B H Loya’s death a “red herring” did not reflect the upheaval the case triggered on January 12 after four senior SC judges held a press conference. 

 The judges accused the CJI of arbitrarily allocating cases to ‘junior judges’, and   had said “yes” when asked whether assigning the Loya case to a bench led by Justice Arun Mishra had triggered the presser. Minutes after the press conference ended, senior advocate Indira Jaising met Justice Chelameswar, who also confirmed to TOI that the allocation of the Loya case was indeed the proverbial last straw. On the afternoon of January 12, CPI leader D Raja met Justice Chelameswar. 
 
 Sources told TOIthat with the Loya case buried, the   is expected to renew efforts to move a removal motion against the CJI. The judges decided to hold the presser after the CJI turned down their request to delete the Loya case PILs posted for hearing before a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, then 10th in seniority among the judges. 
 
 At 10.15 am on January 12, 15 minutes before the commencement of judicial work, the four walked into the CJI’s chamber and requested him to assign the matter to a bench headed by a more senior judge. SC sources had told TOI that the CJI, surprised by their unusual request, declined it. 
 
 The four judges then finished their day’s work within an hour and a half and rushed to Justice Chelameswar’s house for a press conference, which started at 12.20 pm. On January 12, the division bench led by Justice Arun Mishra posted the matter to January 16, when it asked the   government to submit Loya case records to the court and ordered its listing before an ‘appropriate bench’. 
 
 It was then listed before the bench headed by the CJI on January 22. Later, Justice Arun Mishra had questioned Justice Chelameswar about the divide he created between senior and junior judges and said all judges, including the CJI, were competent to hear any case.
 
