CHENNAI: In the tug-of-war between Mannargudi satraps T T V   and V  , the guardian figure of the clan -   - is expected to back her nephew Dhinakaran. 

 Sources in the family say   is upset over her brother Divaharan's political plunge, which may serve only to weaken Dhinakaran, especially when he has been unsettling the inimical EPS-OPS dispensation. The wedge Dhinakaran created in the ruling dispensation by engineering defection of 18 AIADMK MLAs is still botheration for the government. The numerical strength of the rebels has only swelled since then and the fate of the government depends on the HC verdict in the MLAs' disqualification case.
 
 Divaharan's entry at this juncture is aimed at influencing rebel MLAs from Central districts who were once his loyalists. It is not an easy task for him now unless he is indulging in political maneuvering at the behest of the government in office. MLAs have nothing to gain by backing Divaharan.
 
 To clear the air, Dhinakaran is pushing for a statement from Sasikala, calling upon her loyalists to stay away from her brother. "Dhinakaran is likely to meet Sasikala at   prison in this regard soon," said a source close to him.
 
 Sasikala has been backing Dhinakaran as her political heir ever since she appointed him AIADMK deputy general secretary hours before her imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case in February last year. "Dhinakaran's sudden elevation had ruffled feathers in her extended family. Even her deceased husband M   had reservations against entrusting the party affairs with TTV, but Natarajan felt helpless as Sasikala stood her ground. She even discussed with senior leaders her decision to issue a statement asking AIADMK functionaries and cadres to keep distance from her family members when Natarajan started shooting his mouth off after Jayalalithaa's death. Following advice from seniors, she decided to wait," said a senior leader who was privy to the discussion.
 
 Dhinakaran has proven his mettle since then by winning the crucial R K Nagar byelection. Though marred by charges of voter bribing on an unprecedented scale, Dhinakaran's victory reflected the emergence of a new leader on Tamil Nadu's political scape. His ability to hold the rebel MLAs together against the might of the state government is his biggest achievement. And he is aiming at a long haul.
 
 Divaharan was never in active politics. He was busy managing business and educational institutions all these years. He may find the asperity of politics tough to handle.
 
 
