Bengaluru: The apartment where three manual scavengers died earlier this month had no approval for a sewage treatment plant (STP), says  , an organization that has been working to abolish manual scavenging.

 Following the deaths of three men at the N D Sepal apartment on January 7, the Samithi conducted a probe of sorts, scrutinizing documents at various government departments. It found that the STP was illegal. The men had been engaged to clean the STP.
 
 “As per records, the apartment owners had not applied for ‘Consent for Operation’ of STP and hence it was unauthorized,” said  , state convener of the Samithi. “In a joint inspection that was held by   and BWSSB on June 12, 2017, it was found that the apartment was operating the STP without proper authorization. The inspection report also noted that the treatment process of the STP was non-compliant with the specified discharge standards.” The apartment builder had only obtained consent for establishment of the STP in 2006.
 
 This was the third incident of manual scavengers dying in an apartment in the last 18 months. There were similar incidents in two different apartments in   and  .
 
 “These deaths could have been prevented if the BWSSB, while mandating establishment of STPs in apartments, had asked the question of who will clean these STPs,” Obalesh said. “BWSSB also should have put in place guidelines on cleaning of STPs in compliance with the provisions of the Prevention of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013.”
 
 They Samithi demanded that all unauthorized and non-compliant STPs be shut down immediately. “KSPCB should issue immediate notification prohibiting engagements of human beings for cleaning, repair and maintenance of STPs which is a criminal offence as per Section 7 of The Prevention of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013,” Obalesh said.
 
 When contacted, Jagadish Hiremani, National Commission of Safai Karmachari, who had recently inspected the STP, said that the apartment hadn’t followed due procedures.
 
 “During my inspection, it was learnt that the apartment hadn’t obtained the required permission from the government. The police were told to take cognizance of this,” said Hiremani.
 
 He said he was yet to get documents pertaining to the apartment which he had requested from the BBMP, BWSSB, KSPCB. “I have written my second letter to the civic agencies seeking documents pertaining to the apartment,” he said.
 
 Office bearers of the apartment welfare association were unavailable for comment. 
 
 
