CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Friday issued a notice to the UT administration and the police on a public interest litigation ( ) seeking stricter implementation of the rule banning modified motorcycles producing a high decibel noise.

 The PIL filed by Dr Bhavneet  , a Sector 15 resident, said people are openly flouting traffic norms by getting silencers of their bikes removed and modified to produce a jarring noise which scares passers-by and creates  
 
 Tampering with silencers is a violation of the Motor Vehicle Act and invites a penalty of Rs 1,000 for the first offence and Rs 2,000 for repeat offences.
 
 Rules specify that if a vehicle’s silencer emits over 80 decibels it is considered to be causing noise pollution. Sources said when silencers are removed, levels increase anywhere between 100 decibels and 110 decibels.
 
 The petition said, “The modified bikes also create noise pollution by pressure horns giving a succession of unduly harsh, shrill, loud and alarming noise.”
 
 The petitioner sought directions to the administration to take preventive measures by spreading awareness among residents on the use of modified bikes. Many bikers are unaware that alteration of a factory model is illegal under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
 
 Dr Goyal told TOI they had earlier given a representation on the issue to the police, but after no action was taken, she filed the PIL. “I had filed a number of representations to the authorities, including the UT administrator, for taking action. The latest one was on September 2, 2016. On April 1, 2016, I submitted a letter to SSP (traffic) and requested him to take appropriate legal action to curb the noise pollution. A similar representation was also submitted to inspector general of police,” Dr Goyal said.
 
 The petitioner said, “It is a very serious issue because these bikes create a deafening sound and sometimes it becomes impossible to sit and focus on work even inside homes.”
 
 The respondents are administration through its secretary, department of home affairs and justice, inspector general of police, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, and  .
 
  
 
