JAIPUR: There are times in a sportsperson’s life when things aren’t going your way and achieving your dreams looks far-fetched. Injury is a pain — it can cause a lot of anxiety and bring a lot of pain with it.

 
 
 He has come a long way but when   had a back injury in 2014, he might have gone through all of the above. “That was the most difficult phase of my cricketing life. The back injury was due to stress. I made some minor changes in my bowling post rehabilitation which helped,” Unadkat said.
 
 Help it did but Unadkat had to wait some time for it. After forgettable   editions of 2015 and 2016 - for Delhi Daredevils and Kolkata Knight Riders respectively when he played a match each and took one wicket each year — 2017 with Pune Super Giants was Jaydev’s IPL. He took 24 wickets in 12 matches including a hat-trick with best figures of 5 for 30 which meant he had finished second — behind Bhuvneahwar Kumar with 26 wickets in 14 matches.
 
 The franchises had taken note.
 
 Come 2018 auctions and inaugural winners  , returning to the IPL after a gap of two years due to suspension, threw the kitchen sink to buy the left-arm pace bowling services of the   player for a whopping Rs 11.5 crores. “ It feels great but that (the money) is the last thing on my mind right now. I just want to go out there and give a good performance on the field,” that was Unadkat on a question on what would he do will all that money.
 
 With the astonishing figure, he became the highest Indian abd the second-highest overall pick of the 2018 season, second only to England’s Ben Stokes for Rs 12.5 crores, also by Rajasthan Royals. If the Jaipur fans are lucky enough, they could see both men work in tandem for eight matches at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in the coming season.
 
 With all the Indian bowling prowess at the moment, they could still do with a left-arm pace option. Does Unadkat think on those lines, how confident is he of a return to the Indian ODI and Test side? “I played in the T20 series against Sri Lanka recently and I think I did well. I would like to keep performing well and see how things go from there”.
 
 When Jaydev played his only Test, it was on a big stage, at Centurion in South Africa, he was all of 19 and stalwarts like Sachin Tendulkar, VVS Laxman, Rahul Dravid and Virender Sehwag were still playing. He bowled 26 overs in the only innings the Proteas played without a wicket. So, with the benefit of hindsight, could he have done something else?
 
 “I have learnt from that game and the time since then but I would not want to change anything,” pat came the reply.
 
 Unadkat is still just 26 and is raring to go. Another good IPL and who knows.
 
 
