NEW DELHI: The south and north municipal   carried out   drives on Wednesday targeting 76 properties for misuse and unauthorised construction as per the directions of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee. SDMC sealed 16 units in the west zone that include Honda Car Showroom, Pind Balluchi restaurant, Revive Hospital and others. North corporation sealed 60 different properties in five different locations.

 “In all, 16 units in different properties involving unauthorised activities were sealed. In Mayapuri Phase-II, two units were sealed in a basement. At Tilak Nagar, Revive Hospital, commercial activity was going on in the silt area of the hospital and two units — one at the back and one in the front — were sealed,” said a senior south corporation official. “At Pind Balluchi, three units were sealed in the basement and five in the silt area,” he added. 
 
 In north Delhi, maximum units were sealed in Old Rajinder Nagar. “In a day-long action by north corporation, our teams from building department have sealed 35 units in Old Rajinder Nagar, 13 shops in Azad Market and eight units in Shalimar Bagh. The two sealed properties in Rana Pratap Bagh were offices of Muthoot Finance in Bharat Nagar,” Yogender Singh Maan, the spokesperson of north corporation, said. Similarly, two units in properties on Ghanta Ghar Road and the main road of Malka Ganj have been sealed due to their unauthorised building plan.
 
 The shops and basements have been sealed for various reasons like non-payment of conversion charges, unauthorised constructions, non-compliance to master plan regulations and misuse of land, the spokesperson said. The civic bodies had planned sealing drives in many other areas too but due to unavailability of police force, it could not be executed.
 
 “Our teams need police force to accompany them. Since the police are busy right now with Republic Day preparations and ASEAN summit, the drives will be hampered till January 26,” an official from south corporation said.
 
 
