VADODARA: The Vadodara (rural) police arrested five persons, including two contract killers from West  , for the murder of a young electronic shop owner from Bhayli on March 5.

 Bhaumik Patel, 24, was found dead in the effluent treatment plant (ETP) channel near   village on the city’s outskirts on March 5. 
 
 Addressing media persons, Vadodara Range IG Abhay Chudasama said that Patel’s murder was plotted by his business partner Shah Rukh alias  , a resident of Padra and his brother Shehzaad alias Bilal, who had hired two contract killers from Bengal to bump him off. Shah Rukh was frustrated with Patel’s persistent demands to return Rs 30 lakh that he and his father had lent him while opening the shop in Padra in February.
 
 Police arrrested Shah Rukh, Shehzaad, their accomplice Yogendar alias Chhabila Sah and the two contract killers -   and Abbas Ali alias Mithu Sheikh on Wednesday.
 
 During investigation, police got to know that Patel used to harass Shah Rukh for returning the money. Shah Rukh admitted to the police that he was frustrated by Patel’s harassment and therefore he and his brother decided to kill him.
 
 The duo approached Sah who told them that he knows Sabbir Ali and Abbas Ali from Bardhaman district in West Bengal who can do the work for them. Police said that the contract killers took Rs three lakh from the two brothers and reached Vadodara to kill Patel.
 
 On March 2, Patel went to Padra to meet Shah Rukh. From Padra, Patel, Shah Rukh and his friend Mohammed Adnan alias Moin Mohammed Vohra went towards Luna village in Patel’s SUV and on the way they picked up Abbas Ali. On reaching some distance, Abbas Ali grabbed Patel from behind and tried to slit his throat. But Patel managed to snatch the knife and throw it away, following which they exchanged blows in the car. Abbas Ali then took out his country-made gun, but it misfired and injured Patel on his forehead. They hit him with gun’s butt and then strangled him to death.
 
 His body was then thrown in the ETP channel and the car was abandoned near Sherkhi village.
 
 
