LUCKNOW: Even as BSP Supremo   is in the process of shifting from her official residence 13-A Mall Avenue to 9 Mall Avenue, a signboard declaring her current house as 'Shri Kanshi Ram Ji Yaadgar Vishram Sthal' went up on Monday morning, leading to speculation that the former UP CM may not want to give up the property in a hurry. 

  The shifting is taking place in the light of a recent SC order, according to which all former chief ministers are required to vacate their government accommodations. The property that has so far been used as Mayawati's residence also houses a memorial to BSP founder Kanshi Ram. 
 
  "The estate department does not have its facts right. When Mayawati became CM in 1995, 13 Mall Avenue was allotted to her. Subsequently, in light of her the security she required, an adjoining property was attached to it and it together came to be known as 13-A Mall Avenue. It is the registered address for the Kanshiram Trust and the memorial occupies a major part of the property. The residence is actually quite a small portion," said sources in BSP. 
 
 
 
 BSP sources said that the the process of shifting from the current location to Mayawati’s new house, a property acquired in 2010, had already started.
 
 The party also said that Kanshi Ram used to stay in this residence whenever he was in Lucknow and therefore, this property was held in high esteem by party workers. However, government officials said that the property had been allocated to Mayawati and therefore, as per the court order, would be taken back. “The trust may be operating out of the property and its registered address could be 13-A, Mall Avenue.
 
 However, on paper the property has been allotted to Mayawati. Putting up a board outside claiming that the property is a memorial does not change facts. BSP is trying to challenge the government and might think that even if Mayawati moves out, the property will not be taken back if it is a memorial. Finally, it does not matter what BSP does. It is state property and will be taken back,” said an official.
 
 Power minister Shrikant Sharma said that it was the Supreme Court that had asked for the bungalows to be vacated in 15 days and therefore, any violation would be be tantamount to a contempt of court. “We welcomed the court’s decision when it came. As per law, whatever needs to be done to enforce it, will be done,” he said.
 
 
 
