PUNE: A motor accident claims tribunal ( ) has directed the owner of a truck and a private   firm to jointly and severally pay Rs 1.39 crore as damages to the widow, two minor kids and elderly parents of a 36-year-old computer engineer from Vimannagar in a case of accident claim.

 An interest at 9% per annum from the date of filing the claim petition (July 9, 2008) is also applicable on the amount. So far, the interest works out to Rs 1.12 crore and will continue to grow till actual realisation. The truck belonged to   resident   and was insured by Reliance General Insurance Company Limited.
 
 
 Lawyer S L Dravid, who represented the insurance firm, told TOI, “The company will take a call on the legal remedy available after the tribunal’s order. I have intimated the firm about the tribunal’s order with a plea to take further decision on whether it has to pay the damages or move an appeal before a higher forum.”
 
 The victim, along with his family members, was heading towards Chittorgarh from Pune in a private taxi car when the accident occurred at Mahemdabad on Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway in   (see box).
 
 Lawyers Bhaskar Suryavanshi and Bhushan Selukar jointly moved a claim petition on behalf of the victim’s widow, two minor daughters and elderly parents, claiming Rs 4.5 crore damages on the grounds that Abhishek was the only earning member in the family and his premature death in accident caused great loss to the bereaved.
 
 The drivers and owners of the private taxi and the truck as well as the insurance companies which had insured these vehicles were named as opponents in the matter, suggesting it to be a case of contributory negligence.
 
 However, citing police papers and evidence on record, MACT member   held, “The negligence of the truck driver was the root cause of the accident. Therefore, no contributory negligence can be fixed on both the vehicles in spite of the involvement of two vehicles in the accident.”
 
 The tribunal observed that the insurance firm did not examine the truck driver and there was no reason to disbelieve the police papers produced on record pointing out that truck driver drove the vehicle in rash and negligent manner. The insurer also did not comment on the outcome of the case registered against the truck driver, it said.
 
 On the insurance company’s argument that the truck owner committed breach of policy as the truck had no valid fitness certificate and permit, the tribunal said the onus of proving this squarely lays on the insurance company and not on the claimants. Moreover, there was nothing in support of its claim, it added.
 
