Jaipur: The   of votes for three bypoll seats held on January 29 will begin on Thursday morning. Two parliamentary seats, Alwar and Ajmer, and one assembly seat, Mandalgarh, went to bypolls, with both the ruling BJP and Congress claiming victory.

 The counting of votes for Alwar parliamentary seat will be held at the Shobaram Government Arts College, Alwar, and the Ajmer Lok Sabha seat at Government Polytechnic, Ajmer. As for the Mandalgarh assembly seat, it will be held at Government Polytechnic College, Tilak Nagar, Bhilwara, said a spokesperson of the chief electoral officer (CEO).
 
 The counting will begin at 8 am after completing the ‘mandatory verification’ process. Under the verification process, the voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) from randomly selected EVMS will be matched with the votes recorded in the EVMs to ensure that there is no anomaly. This will be done in the presence of returning officers and observers in the presence the candidates’ agents.
 
 A total of 42 candidates are in the fray for the bypolls which were held on Monday.
 
 PCC president Sachin Pilot claimed that the Congress would bag all the three seats. “The kind of support, co-operation and affection received from people in areas where bypolls were held emboldens me to believe that Congress is on course to win all three seats with a thumping majority. The anger against the BJP government was palpable at all places.”
 
 The BJP too expressed confidence that the bypoll results would be a stamp of approval for the good governance of four years of Vasundhara Raje government. “As in the Dholpur bypoll, which saw people voting for development and BJP, in these bypolls too, they have voted for us. The results on Thurday will prove it,” said Ashok Parnami, BJP state president.
 
 In Alwar, Jaswant Singh Yadav of BJP and Karan Singh Yadav of the Congress are the main contenders, while Raghu Sharma of Congress and BJP's Ramswaroop Lamba are in contention at Ajmer.
 
 BJP's Shakti Singh Hada and Congress’s Vivek Dhakad are vying for the Mandalgarh seat.
 
 The bypolls to all the three seats were necessitated after the sudden death of BJP MPs Sanwarlal Jat in Ajmer, Mahant Chand Nath Yogi in Alwar, and MLA Kirti Kumari in Mandalgarh. All these seats were earlier held by BJP.
 
 
