
The   base had a biker group, called Sea Riders, which would go on small trips twice a month. But adrenaline junkies like Cdr Sachin Sivaraman, Lt Cdr Ravish Chugh and Lt Cdr Manmohan Singh were hardly satisfied with those rides. So one day, when they were discussing a trip covering the entire coastline of India, Rear Admiral Philipose G Pynumootil heard them. “It seemed a very good idea to me. I took this up with my seniors and they agreed to sponsor the trip,” Pynumootil told us.
 
 
  
 The Lighthouse Motorcycle Expedition started on May 1 from Gujarat’s Jamnagar to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Western Naval Command. They rode through nine coastal states, including Gujarat, Maharashtra and Kerala, with the aim of educating the masses about coastal security. “Villages close to big cities knew about the Indian  , but we also met villagers who were not aware of the Navy’s existence. But 
 wherever we went, we got a warm reception,” said Rear Admiral Philipose G Pynumootil.
 
 
 
  
 The riders crossed the   on Tuesday morning to enter Kolkata. Following a short boat ride on the Hooghly organised by the Police, the group visited the second Hooghly Bridge and the  . “This is my first visit to Kolkata and I love it! It has two extremes — the congested north side of the city and then vast open field at Maidan. It’s beautiful,” said Lt Cdr Rohit Tanwar. The group ended their trip at the city’s INS Netaji Subhash Naval base, where Commodore Suprobho K Dey flagged off the expedition’s last leg.
 
 
 
  
 Their primary aim was to interact with the local fishing communities of the states, but they also had another thing on their minds — the local food. After crossing Gujarat, it was Pynumootil who suggested that they should also sample the local food. And since they always had the support of local Navy officers in each state, they didn’t have much trouble finding and tasting the local delicacies. “I’d never tasted pokhal before. It was really tasty,” said Lt Cdr Ravish Chugh. 
 
 
 
  
 The team also had five female members — the wives of five officers. And they loved the experience. “I’ve been on various bike trips, but this one was totally different. We saw the real India up close and learnt so much,” said Vani Manmohan, an officer’s wife.
 
 
 
