BAREILLY: A 34-year-old woman who passed   from a private school in   here in 2003 has been running from pillar to post for the past two years to get her board exam certificate.
 
    shifted to Moradabad after her marriage in 2004; and, as she is currently pursuing BEd, she requires pass certificate. When her school did not issue certificate, she filed two RTI applications seeking status report of her application but in vain.
  
  Sushma said, “As I got married in 2004 and shifted to Moradabad, I could not collect my certificate from school. Now, I am about to finish BEd and I need the certificate.”
  “I have made several rounds to the school in the last two years. But, school officials are demanding a bribe of Rs 5,000.”
  
  “After I lodged a complaint on IGRS portal, the district inspector of school (DIOS) directed the school to provide me certificate. But, when I did not receive pass certificate, I filed an RTI in March this year with the DIOS office seeking details of the students of the 2003 batch who have received pass certificate. Though I have sent two reminders, the RTI reply is awaited. Later, I filed an RTI with the   regional office of the   seeking information of roll numbers of students of the 2003 batch of my school, but the office refused to share details saying ‘it does not have information. Besides, as principal’s approval is needed for furnishing information, it cannot share details’,” said Sushma.
  
  The woman then filed a second RTI with the DIOS office in May seeking to know why the certificate was not issued to her, and who was responsible for the negligence. She also sought action erring official.
  
  DIOS Achal Mishra said, “The board office sends students’ pass certificates to schools. And if students do not collect their certificates within four-five years, schools either return certificates to the board office or keep with themselves. So, it is a matter of investigation whether her certificate is with her school or the board office. I have directed the principal to provide her certificate. Besides, she can contact the board office to get a copy of pass certificate after paying fee.”
  
  School manager Virendra Saxena, however, rejected the bribery charge levelled by her against school officials. “In 2003, exams were conducted on the high court’s order. We had received mark sheets, but the board office did not provide us pass certificate for the entire 2003 batch.” 
