By Emrana Sheikh

 A newspaper headline: ‘35-year-old   has cardiac arrest’ that has jumped from the world of fiction to reality is a frightening truth that we witness today. While the number may not warrant panic, there is still cause for serious concern. The   world characterises stress in its full form — volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity. This is evident in any over-worked individual personifying stress. Higher role demands, transitions, expectations and individual aspirations incite it further. Social media intimacy and round-the-clock connectedness, while being characteristically lonely, is another paradox people are grappling with in this digital era.
 
 Human beings are expected to bring their complete self to work — their physical, mental and emotional self. All this comes bundled with and contributes to their strengths and weaknesses. Organisations are realising the value of the same and are designing creative interventions to encourage wellness at work that translates into wellness for self and are extended to families. Creating greater connectedness and genuinely caring for employees ends up in protecting the most valuable resource — the people. 
 
 Does a company owe it to its employees to look after them? Is remuneration where the buck stops for employers? If one were to look at it, employees have the freedom to join fitness classes of their liking after work is done. Writer Annie Dillard has said, “How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives.”
 
 How long does the average person spend at work? If we were to calculate at eight hours a day in a five-day week for an employee, who works from the age of 25 to 60, that’s a total of 61,600 hours. This number is on a more lenient side as it excludes a month of vacation each year. The real number comes close to 90,000 hours. That’s 10 continuous years of a person’s life spent working, if work was 24/7. As employers, does it not mean some responsibility on our part to help nurture the lives of all the people who spend a large chunk of their lives in office? Unless being healthy and fit is not stressed upon, it may take a back seat to working. While achievement orientation is a wonderful thing, it becomes naught when other aspects of life are severely compromised.
 
 Close to one in four people dying of cardiovascular diseases, not all genetic, is not a fact companies must turn a blind eye to. Even something as simple as people encouraging good health and nutrition goes a long way in imprinting the same in the minds of employees. 
 
 There are innumerable ways of co-creating wellness. Some organisations have evolved this agenda elegantly while some others are getting prepared to initiate their journeys. It’s a strategy of enrolling, engaging with and meaningfully making a difference in the lifestyles of employees. It requires deep commitment and is a long-term journey of partnership which cannot be dismissed as a fad. It needs to be woven into the way organisational policies are defined and infrastructure is built. There are a vast number of apps and services available that provide creative formats to engage employees and inspire them to embrace holistic well-being. It needs to blend in and get integrated with the wellness strategy or it will not give desired returns on investment. When is any initiative a success? Any people initiative delivers value only when it creates necessary business impact and positive employee experience. Enlisted below are thoughts on how this agenda is woven with the business agenda:
 
 Fitness is contagious: When one member of the family becomes health conscious, automatically it influences a behaviour change amongst other members of the family. A recent social network study done by Nicholas Christakis and James Fowler concluded that if your friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 45% higher. If your friend’s friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 25% higher and if your friend’s friend’s friend, someone you probably don’t even know, is obese, your risk of obesity is 10% higher. And it’s only when you get to your friend’s friend’s friend’s friends that there’s no longer a relationship. So, a fitness philosophy definitely has the potential to be contagious and spread among the workforce.
 
 Personal transformation is magical: One of the employees went through a strong health enhancement agenda to bring about lifestyle changes and result in a fitter, stronger and healthier individual. The impact of this transformation was not limited to merely the stated objectives, but also positively impacted his confidence level and became an ingredient to redefine what success meant to him. The ability to change something as mammoth as lifestyle requires huge determination, focus and persistence. When these qualities emerge from within a person through discipline, they can enable transformation at work as well.
 
 Social bonding influences collaboration and camaraderie: In our organisation, there is a large group of employees that runs marathons and another group that is passionate about football. These activities become the bond that brings employees together. Just like families that eat together, stay together; employees that have fun together, bond together too.
 
 Productivity barometer echoes what the health thermometer says: We all know the impact on productivity at an individual level when we feel low on energy or are not in good health. Business outcomes of wellness strategies include lower absenteeism, higher job satisfaction and work productivity, higher employee retention, and lower healthcare costs.
 
 Agility in organisations: Health is beginning of agility. A vibrant work environment curated with energetic employees create agile workplaces to face constant challenges of the market place without being bogged down by ill-health.
 
 This can then be the beginning of the end of the adage, ‘The mind is willing but the flesh is weak’.
 
 Engagement starts with care: With rising healthcare costs, preventive health management is beneficial for both, employees and corporates. However, the primary incentive to create an employee wellness blueprint is not to save on costs, but to spread the message that ‘I’ matter to the organisation.
 
  This display of care then becomes the glue that seals positive employee engagement. 
 
 At Asian Paints, we believe wellness is a wholesome approach to living in a healthy way. In addition to having annual health check-ups and curative treatment tie-ups, we conduct a variety of  , educational  ,  ,  ,  . Wellness is a moving target for individuals and organisations. We constantly try to evolve our wellness agenda up a notch and integrate it with the everyday life of employees. We are committed to building healthy communities around our offices and engage our employees to contribute to this larger cause.
 
 The employee-employer relationship is a two-way street as fit employees create fit organisations — while employers endorse and propagate health in all aspects. When an employer enables employees to lead healthy lifestyles by promoting awareness, providing avenues to manage fitness, nurturing psychologically safe workplaces and caring beyond work, the staff feel their holistic needs are met. The workplace then ceases to be a mecca of mere business transactions and instead evolves to become a fulfilling space to spend a large part of life in.
 
  If health is wealth, then companies have much to benefit through healthy and happy employees. This wellness approach to health and life will then cascade down to families of employees, ensuring generations of people who focus on well-being. Imagine such a far-reaching impact!
 
 The writer is VP (HR), Asian Paints. Views are personal
 
 
