From discovering a pakodewala in Karol Bagh who can fry pakodas with his bare hands to finding about the history of Safdar Jang and Old Fort, actor-comedian  's last few trips to Delhi were all about interesting explorations. Krushna, who is popular on TV for his comedy shows, is also a part of the show 'OMG Yeh Mera India' and has been coming to Delhi quite often to shoot for the same. When we met him during his recent visit, he told us that he visited the Lotus Temple, Old Fort and the Jantar Mantar. "I visited all three places for the first time. I knew that Old Fort and Jantar Mantar are in Delhi, but I didn’t know that something like   exists in Delhi. I found that extremely beautiful. I felt like I was shooting at some foreign location. I have family here and come here quite often, and I was surprised they never told me about this place. I think my cousins in Delhi have only taken me to clubs here and not the temples. Well, that's what cousins do!" Krushna said.

 
  
  Krushna Abhishek at Jantar Mantar (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The comedian, just like every other celebrity who’s visited the city, said that if there's one thing he knows the best about Delhi, it’s the food. "I have had best food in Delhi with my cousins. The one thing that I know very well about Delhi is its food. Even when I get a break from shooting, I go out to have dal makhni and sarson ka saag," said Krushna, who has also learnt a lot about the history of Delhi in the past few months. "I was a very bad student of History. I always found the subject interesting, but never studied much. I am learning about history now when I travel," said Krushna and revealed that his recent lesson in history was on ruler Safdar Jang – who he was and why so many places in Delhi are named after him. "I didn’t know that he was an administrator who had complete control of the administration in the Mughal empire," said Krushna.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The comedian, who is currently in the show 'The Drama Company', said that venturing into something beyond comedy has been a good change for him. "I think comedy on TV has become boring. I don't think more comedy shows will work on TV now, unless they come up with a new concept. Humne toh saalon chala liya, par ab there is a saturation point. The audience has seen actors coming and dancing and doing funny things with us, now they want something different," said Krushna. The comedian is currently working with Preeti Simoes, who was earlier working with   and was the creative director of 'Comedy Nights With Kapil'. "I love Preeti for her work. She is one of the best creatives on TV. I am working with her and hopefully, we will come up with some interesting concept soon for a show," he added.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 There were also rumours about Krushna replacing Karan Wahi in 'India's Next Superstar', but Krushna refuted the rumours and said, "Bilkul nahi, Kapil Sharma hota toh samajh mein aata," he said with a smile. Krushna added, "On a serious note, I am not replacing Karan, he is doing a brilliant job. And I would love to work with Kapil Sharma. He is one of the best stand-up comedians in India right now. Stardom aise hi kisi ko nahi milta. I love him for his work and even he respects me. We are artists and we respect each other's work."
 
 
 
  
 
