PATNA: With an all India rank (AIR) of 25, Hajipur boy   has topped in the state in the 11th Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) for postgraduate courses, the results of which were announced on Thursday. In undergraduate programme, Gopalganj’s Kumari Saloni has emerged as the state topper by securing AIR 172. 

 
  was conducted by National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kochi, for admissions in undergraduate and postgraduate law programmes in 19 premier law institutes across the country. 
 
 Rishi, who scored 93 out of 150 marks, said he was not satisfied with his performance. “I was expecting above 97 marks. My target was to make it to the list of top 15,” he said. Rishi blamed some “wrong questions” in the test for his relatively poor performance.
 
 Born to railway employee   and homemaker Madhuri Devi, Rishi wants to become a law officer in public enterprises to fulfil his grandfather’s dream. “My grandfather Madan Kishore Shahi was the inspiration for my achievement. He always motivated me,” he said. The boy completed his LLB and LLM from Delhi University and his schooling from St Xavier’s School, Muzaffarpur
 
 “I had done extra study and lot of reading to crack the prestigious exam. I created a group study with one of my friends, Satyendra Tiwari, who lives in Lucknow. I never took any coaching. After completing my LLM in 2017, I moved back to my home in Muzaffarpur and prepared for the exam,” Rishi added.
 
 State topper in CLAT UG course Kumari Saloni scored 129.5 out of 200 marks. “I could have done better had there been no technical glitch. Each time I selected the right answer, it automatically got unselected due to slow internet connection at the centre,” the girl said.
 
 Saloni passed her Intermediate exam (science stream) with 93% from St Michael’s High School, Patna, this year. She also cleared the All India Law Entrance Test (AILET) and got AIR 25. “CLAT ranking is not up to my expectation. At best, I can get admission in West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences. I will instead prefer to take admission in National Law University, Delhi on the basis of my AILET ranking,” she said.
 
 Her father Ashok Kumar Prasad is a judicial worker in Gopalganj and mother Asha Prasad a homemaker.
 
 
