KOTA: On the occasion of Akshaya Tritiya on Wednesday, members of Childline and administrative officials took immediate action and stopped three child marriages in Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran districts of Hadoti region. Seven people were arrested. 

 “The weddings of two minor sisters of the Banjara community were stopped at Jugpura area under Anantpura police station of Kota city, after the family members failed to submit the age documents,”  , coordinator of Childline in Kota said. “The two minor girls are looked after by their cousin as their father is no more,” he said adding that the family members of the two were restricted with affidavit to not carry on with the wedding till they attain the legal age of 18. The boy’s age in the matter is also being investigated.
 
 Another case of a minor wedding was reported on Wednesday evening from   of Baran district following which officials were sent to investigate the matter. The minor girl’s uncle, the wedding cook along with five others were arrested from the spot.
 
 “Two other such cases were reported from Aklera and Khanpur areas of Jhalwar district where the concerned officials were rushed to stop the weddings on finding the involved couple to be minor,” said an official from a Jhalawar control room.
 
 Another minor girl from the Bairwa community was supposed to be getting married on April 24 in   area. The parents of the girl were asked to produce age proof which they failed to, only showing the Aadhar card which is not recognised for confirmation of age. “The papers verifying the age of the girl would be taken from her school tomorrow and if she is found to be underage, the parents would be restricted and appropriate action would be initiated against them,” said  , the SHO at Ramganjmandi police station. 
 
 Several cases were also reported from a village in Kapren town of Bundi district,” said Vasudev Singh, SHO at Kapren police station. There was a mass wedding going on in the Gujar community of the village from where these cases were reported and the manager submitted affidavits of nine couples. Investigations are still on.
 
 
