RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh high court has modified its previous order directing all trial courts in the state to mandatorily accept Aadhaar card for releasing an accused on bail. Now, verification process can be completed after release of the accused on bail. 

 Substituting its previous direction, the high court has now directed that for verification of surety and surety papers, trial courts shall accept Aadhaar card or voter ID, PAN Card or passport of the surety, which shall be verified within four weeks. However, release warrant shall be issued on prima facie satisfaction of the surety.
 
 The   had directed modification of the January 5 judgement of the Chhattisgarh High Court. The January 5 order had created a hue and cry in the Naxal-affected state as a large number of accused continued to languish in jails despite getting bail, but not getting release warrants due to delay in verification of Aadhaar and revenue records or surety papers by the police.
 
 On January 25, the bench of Chief Justice   and Justices AM   and   disposed of a petition filed by advocate Peeyush Bhatia challenging the high court order and terming it as against the orders of the top court and the fundamental rights of the citizens.
 
 It was argued in the apex court that the high court order had resulted in the breach of fundamental rights and liberty of citizens, which would be handheld in the domain of the executive as there was no independent machinery to verify the details of Aadhaar.
 
 The high court had issued the guidelines while dealing with a case in which an advocate's clerk had stood surety for an accused to secure bail and fudged the revenue record of another individual by pasting his own picture.
 
 It had said the menace of submission of sureties by fictitious persons to secure bail of an accused needed to be controlled and regulated by all trial courts of state and the trial court should necessarily obtain copy of the Aadhaar Card of the accused as well as of the surety.
 
 In its order, the high court had directed all trial courts to verify the authenticity of the Aadhaar card of the accused and the surety along with the revenue papers within one week of submission. It had directed the trial courts to lodge an FIR if the revenue or surety papers or the Aadhaar card was found to be forged.
 
 
