Investigative agencies suspect involvement of more companies allegedly used as "fronts" by  , son of former finance minister  , to receive "kickbacks" for ensuring official nod for foreign direct investment proposals by using his influence in the finance ministry.

 Top agency sources told that four companies besides Advantage Strategic Consultancy Pvt Limited (ASCPL) - which is already being investigated by the agencies - are being examined to ascertain the "link" between them and Karti, who allegedly "managed" Foreign Investment Promotion Board's clearance.
 
 The companies under the scanner include Chennai-based  , which is a subsidiary of ASCPL, Mumbai-based North Star Solutions, sources said. They said the number of such companies "may increase".
 
 Agencies are particularly looking into the role of certain directors.
 
 "Curiously, one of the directors of ASCPL is also a director in other companies," said an official requesting anonymity. "We are investigating into the real reason behind this," the person said.
 
 Another senior officer added, "It seems more of a design than mere coincidence. We suspect that a director was deliberately put for some time in the company who later left."
 
 What is making it difficult to establish the link is the fact that "no bills (invoices) were in the name of two such companies" yet they had a common director who was also a director in ASCPL, the person said.
 
 "It is being investigated as to whether money was parked in such companies," the official said.
 
  (ED) has examined all the directors of ASCPL. Four of them were grilled last week, sources said.
 
 While a couple of the directors have given "evasive" replies, the remaining have divulged crucial information establishing their "link(s)" with Karti Chidambaram, an officer claimed.
 
 Agency sources also indicated that they have received more information with regard to   case, and now they have decided to quiz its cofounder   again in light of the "new information".
 
 ED has prepared an elaborate questionnaire to corner Peter Mukherjea, husband of Indrani Mukherjea who has alleged that INX Media paid a bribe of Rs 3.5 crore to Karti Chidambaram. Both the Mukherjeas are under trial for the alleged murder of Indrani's daughter Sheena Bora.
 
 Meanwhile, details of companies contained in a hard disk recovered from Karti's chartered accountant Bhaksararaman are also being examined to ascertain if more companies were used as "fronts" to receive bribes on behalf of Karti, sources said.
 
 Taking forward its investigation into the alleged role of the then finance ministry officials, ED will examine a few secretary and joint secretary level officers of the UPA regime, they said. Notices to nearly half a dozen members of the then Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) were recently issued by ED for examination.
 
 To establish the charge of corruption, it will be imperative for the agencies to prove that the then FIPB and finance ministry officials were "influenced" by Karti, as alleged by   in its FIR last May.
  
  
 
