MANALI: Construction work at the iconic  , already delayed by more than three years, remains stalled as over 500 workers engaged in different works at its two portals have been on   since March 27. The workers have accused project officials of ignoring labour laws and threatened not to resume work until their demands are met.

 This is the first time that workers here have resorted to an indefinite strike to push for their demands. They had struck work over the issue of not having enough toilets soon after the project was launched in 2010, but the issue was resolved within a couple of days.
 
 At a time when India is bolstering the presence of the armed forces along the China border, the Rohtang tunnel is strategically important. It is part of a series of tunnels that India plans to build till Leh to give the armed forces quick access to the border regions. Although the digging work is complete, work on inner civil works, security systems, ventilation and the emergency escape tunnel needs to be completed.
 
 Workers have been complaining about timing of their meals, poor seating arrangement and overcrowding in project buses. They have also complained about torn bedding, improper winter clothing and poor medical services. Their demand letters list all these issues.Justifying their demands, Bhartiya Majdoor Sangh, Rohtang Tunnel Project, president   said, “It is surprisingly that the company officials are not accepting our demand letters. How will workers tell them their problems?”
 
 The union has a charter of more than 15 demands. Besides demanding implementation of labour laws for all workers, they want the management to re-employ workers who have been laid off. Singh said that the agitation will continue until all their demands are met. “We want the management to hold talks with us. Otherwise, we have no other option but to not return to work,” he said.
 
 Officials in the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) refused to comment on the strike saying the dispute was with the company that had hired the workers. Sunil Tyagi, project director of the company Strabag Afcons, said the management would hold talks with workers on Monday and will consider their legal demands.
 
 Digging work of Rohtang tunnel had started from   on June 28, 2010. The work was to be completed by 2015, but due to many geological challenges, including loose rock strata and high water ingress, its deadline was pushed to 2017. The work is now expected to complete in 2019.
 
