GUWAHATI/AIZAWL/ITANAGAR/SHILLONG/DIBRUGARH: The   was celebrated peacefully across the northeast on Friday despite boycott calls made by militants. However, two low-intensity bombs exploded in Tinsukia district, with the IEDs along with self-timers going off within minutes of each other near Jagun police station and at Tirap colliery in Ledo. No casualties or damages were reported in the incidents.

  Police on Saturday said Ulfa (Independent) was behind the blasts and they had carried out the attacks with the help of 'hired hands'. "Ulfa (I) outsourced the job of planting bombs to a few local sympathisers. We are zeroing in on them. Outsourcing such attacks is not new to Ulfa (I) who want to make their presence felt every now and then. They even hire minors and school children to carry out their tasks," said Tinsukia SP Mugdhajyoti Mahanta said.
 
 Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi who hoisted the tricolour at the Khanapara veterinary college playground in Guwahati credited the people of the nation for making India a vibrant democracy. He also appreciated the work undertaken by the current government to spread the message of brotherhood among all the communities and make Assam a better place. 
 
 With the assembly polls just a month away,   governor Ganga Prasad called upon the electorate - especially the young voters - to come forward and exercise their fundamental political right. After hoisting the national flag at the Republic Day function at Shillong, the governor said, "There has been an upswing in the number of voters registered due to intensive campaigns being undertaken through various innovative exercises." 
 
 Republic Day was celebrated peacefully across   without any untoward incident. State governor Lt. General (retd) Nirbhay Sharma, after unfurling the national flag at Aizawl, said the New Land Use Policy (NLUP), which is the state governments flagship programme, has already ushered in significant growth and changes in the socio-economic scenario of the state over the past five years. He said the New Economic Development Programme (NEDP) is now being implemented with an allocation of Rs 750 crore for the current fiscal year.
 
 Elaborate security arrangements were made in   to ensure peaceful celebrations of the Republic Day as strict vigil was maintained in all sensitive areas including the Imphal Airport and along the India-Myanmar border.
 
  governor Brig (retd) B D Mishra exhorted the people to contribute to the remarkable plan drawn up by the state government to put the landlocked state in the highest growth trajectory. Unfurling the tricolour at Itanagar, the governor also urged the people to take a collective pledge to uphold the values enshrined in the Constitution while preserving the proud tribal culture and heritage.
 
 To celebrate the occasion, many events organized by security forces deployed in the Patkai Hills of Arunachal Pradesh. Assam Rifles distributed solar lights to 60 households of Chatting village in Longding district and also conducted a medical camp in Changlang district to provide medical aid to the villagers of New Shallang, Old Changlang, Laktong, Kuchep, Kenghu and Chokdok.
 
 
