The heartthrob of the small screen,   has a fan base which includes even Malayalam movie actress Anusree. Not surprisingly, Rayjan wins the top slot of the first ever Kerala’s 15 Most Desirable Men on Television.
 An engineer by profession, Rayjan followed his passion for acting and has had a successful stint on television. The handsome hunk has succeeded in conquering the hearts of the Malayali telly audience through his second serial  . His role as   has not just made him a popular figure but has made the show itself a success. We caught up with the soft-spoken but uber-cool actor, who shared his delight on winning the title.
 
 
 
 
 
 I thank the Almighty for making it to the top of the list of the most desirable small screen actors. I consider this recognition as an honour, as a motivation to work harder on with my upcoming projects and deliver better performances for my dear audience.
  I owe it to them and the makers of the serial Athmasakhi, which made me a popular face on showbiz. I am accosted by audiences of every age group and they address me as Satyajith, not Rayjan. When I tell them that my real name is Rayjan, they say they prefer to call me Satya. They say   suits me more than my real name (laughs). I consider it an honour as an actor.
 I stepped into acting through short films during my college days. I also did modelling alongside. I acted in short films like Black Hole and later the serial  , my debut, but it was Athmasakhi which made people recognise me.
 
 
 
 
 I do my job with complete dedication. I have often gone through body transformations as well for my roles. I am not active in social media as I believe in real friendships and conversations. I don’t like to rush things. Slow and steady wins the race is my mantra in life.
 
 
 
 
 
 Honesty in his work and a good personality. Nowadays everyone is turning into social media activists by posting their thoughts or changing their profile photos with supporting taglines. The power of a man lies in his actions, not his words. Engage in real friendships and get to know the society in real rather than observing it from inside four walls.
 
 
 
 
 
 You can make a woman beautiful with the help of beauty treatments, but her real beauty lies within. Above all, being independent and having strong views in life makes a woman desirable, in my view. She should be able to courageously respond to difficult circumstances. I have many woman friends who have told me about the bad experiences they have faced while travelling alone but they do not respond on the spot. I think women should respond instantly and should stand up for themselves. You are your own saviours. One strong stare is enough to keep away the hooligans. A woman should have her own dreams and plans and no one has the right to restrict them.
 
 
 
 
 
 Apart from Athmasakhi, I am also part of Thakarpan Comedy, a comedy show. The show helped me experiment with new genres like comedy, dance and skit. I will be anchoring an upcoming crime — investigation television programme which is yet to be titled. Being in films is my ultimate dream and I look forward to getting the right opportunities.
 
