RAJKOT: Complete mayhem broke out at Badi and Padva villages near Bhavnagar on Sunday when a team of state-run   ( ) went there with a huge police force to take possession of land it had acquired to set up a 500MW (2 X 250 MW) lignite-based power plant several years ago.

 The trouble began when the GPCL team along with nearly 300 policemen came to Badi village with two earth movers and take possession of the land. Farmers began opposing them and said they won’t let the teams enter the village. As soon as the news spread, farmers from the adjoining Padva village also rushed there and joined the agitation. The bitter opposition by farmers resulted in friction with the policemen. As the situation threatened to go out of control, police resorted to lathi charge and then lobbed at least 40 teargas shells to disperse the mob. Around 50 farmers, including 10 women, were arrested and taken to the office of Bhavnagar superintendent of police.
 
 GPCL has acquired 1,415 hectares of government and private land in three mining blocks — Ghogha-Surka, Khadsaliya-I and Khadsaliya-II, of the total 2,980 ha required. The remaining 1,565 ha will be acquired in phases once the power plant, which is to be set up by GPCL subsidiary Bhavnagar Electric Company Ltd ( ), is fully commissioned.
 
 The land was acquired from 1,250 farmers in 12 villages of Ghogha taluka about two decades ago. The government has acquired the land in Badi, Padva, Hoidal, Malekvadar, Morsal, Thoradi, Rampar, Surka, Alapar, Khadasaliya, Thadsar and Lakhanka villages. 
 
 The situation is expected to remain explosive on Monday too as the agitating farmers have threatened mass self-immolation. They have also decided to withdraw their children from the schools.
 
 Harshad Patel, collector, Bhavnagar, said, “We haven’t received any warning about self-immolation. As far as the land mining issue is concerned, it was acquired by GPCL with the consent of 1,150 of the total 1,200 farmers. GPCL had paid them three to four times the prevailing cost of land then, between 1997 and 2005.” 
 
 Patel added that the   had rejected the petitions by land holders seeking relinquishing the land acquisition done earlier on March 28. 
 
 Farmer leaders   of Badi and Nikulsinh Sarvaiya from Malekvadar termed the government’s action to take possession of the land illegal and against the interest of farmers. “After two decades, all of a sudden, the company officials came with machines to start construction. According to the rule, if the land is not used for the project for over five years, the acquired land should be handed over to the original owners. We want our land back or company should pay compensation according to the current prevailing rate and law,” said Gohel. 
 
 When the 40 farmers were taken to the office of Bhavnagar superintendent of police they launched a hunger strike and threatened to commit mass self-immolation on Monday. Women alleged that they were dragged by the male police despite there being women cops at the spot.
 
 
