AHMEDABAD: Four activists from Ahmedabad have approached the   demanding that the process to pass the   be immediately stayed, and that the bill be scrapped because it introduces penal action in a  . Danish Qureshi, Jamilabanu Pathan, Nishant Varma, and Rajiyabanu Pathan have filed a writ petition in the apex court against the proposed law, terming it “illegal”. Their contention is that the Centre is trying to enact an illegal law using the Supreme Court’s order.

  
  The petitioners challenged the provision of punishment in the bill, saying that it has been done with mala fide intent by the government. In their petition, Qureshi and others have stated that there was no mention of introducing a penal provision in the Supreme Court order prohibiting unilateral triple talaq. Even Sharia laws do not prescribe criminal procedure in this context, the petitioners said. The petitioners said that the government can legislate such a law, but it should not make the Supreme Court order its base. There is no existing civil law that has the provision of penal action, the petitioners said. The activists have contended that the bill has been accepted by the states as well as the   without any objection to the introduction of penal action. The bill is pending in the Rajya Sabha, but nobody is raising the real issue, they said. The Supreme Court is not intervening either though the government is projecting the bill as though it was drafted on the Supreme Court order, the petitioners said.
 
 The petitioners have prayed for the formation of a court committee to determine whether the government has even understood the Supreme Court order passed in August last year or if it has gone beyond court directives. The petition is based upon the Supreme Court order which said that the Constitution protects a faith and not practice, and penal punishment or procedure is never a part of Islamic faith. “The central government is hell bent on creating an illegal law by misusing the Supreme Court order, mistreating the order for political gains as well as harassing Muslims in India,” said Varma, who plans to argue the petition as party-in-person.
 
 The petition was filed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, and petitioners expect a hearing in a week’s time.
 
 
