Chandigarh: Performances by eminent   exponents from all over the country marked the beginning of the inaugural day of a three-day 'Kathak Utsav' organised by Pracheen Kala Kendra in collaboration with Kathak Kendra, New Delhi at Tagore Theatre on Friday.

 The event saw the presence of Kamilini Asthana, president, Kathak Kendra's Advisory Commitee and chairman, Kathak Kendra, S KMonga, who also inaugurated the event.
 
 The first solo performance of the evening was presented by Sameera Kausar, a Kathak exponent of national and international repute. The performance commenced with Vishnu Stuti 'Kasturi Tilakam', with the vocals of Pt Jwala Prasad Ji, Sangeet Natak Akademi Award winner. Kausar soon moved to 'Shudh Nritya' set on 'teen taal'. Thaa, aamad, uthaan , paran, chakradar paran, upaj, gat, niaks were all embellished with graceful movements footwork. The performance concluded with 'Kaise jaun rokat girdhari'. The performance was accompanied by Shri Vijay Sharma on Sitar, Shri Mehmood Khan on Tabla and Shobha Koser on secondary vocals as well. Kausar performed on the lines of the Jaipur Gharana.
 
 The second duet performance was presented by Delhi-based Kathak exponents Swati Wangoo Tiwari and Jyoti Singh. They commenced with a bhajan 'Guru Bin Aisa Kaun Kare' based on raag Mishra Khamaj, followed by a solo presentations by both in 'teen taal' 'Vilambit' and in 'Madhya Laya' respectively. The duo concluded with Sufi bandish called ' Mohe Apne Rang Mein Rang Le Ranglee' . A team of five namely Imran Khan on vocals, Akhilesh Bhatt on tabla. Nafis Ahmed Khan on Sarangi along with Manoj Khan on padant, with the duet.
 
 Pt Ram Mohan Maharaj presented the third performance. He began with an invocation saying 'Jaki Mahima Hai Sukhdai''. He moved onto present traditional Kathak dance forms from the Lucknow Gharana which was set on the cycle of sixteen beats. he concluded the performance with a 'thumri' saying 'Hato Chedo Na Kanhaiya'. 
 
 The festival that will be on for the next two days will feature Kathak dancres from Mumbai, Delhi, Canada and Chandigarh setting the stage on fire.
 
 
