PATNA: The state is set to face the double whammy of cold day and dense fog conditions on Friday and Saturday. 

 People in the state are already facing the discomfort owing to wind chill factor. Cold westerly winds are blowing at an average speed of 6-12kmph against the expected speed of 2-4kmph. Wind chill conditions prevail on a wintry day when wind speed and the level of moisture in the atmosphere are quite high. The average related humidity in   on Thursday was around 85%, while the wind speed was around 6-10kmph.
 
 Minimum temperature in the state capital, on the other hand, surged by a notch as it was recorded at 8.3 degrees C on Thursday morning, one degree lower than normal.
 
 Minimum temperature in   dropped to 5.2 degrees C on Thursday morning, three notches lower than the normal.
 
 In its weather bulletin issued on Thursday, the   ( ) stated that dense fog would prevail at isolated places in the state on Friday and Saturday. Fog cover is termed dense if visibility is between 50 metres and 500 metres.
 
 The IMD on Wednesday released satellite image of an unbroken layer of fog spread across more than 2,000km of the Indian subcontinent – starting from central Pakistan in the west, running right through the Indo-Gangetic plains and ending around Tripura. The fog actually began on Christmas Day in east UP and  .
 
 The persistent fog cover has been attributed to recurrent western disturbances affecting the weather in the Himalayas and north India plains. A western disturbance normally brings winter rains in northern plains in India and is usually preceded by foggy or cloudy conditions and followed by sharp drop in temperature amid windy conditions. 
 
 “A fresh western disturbance is likely to cause rain or snow at a few places over Jammu and Kashmir and at isolated places over the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on January 4 and 5. Though the relative humidity over the northern plains is not likely to reduce, the surface winds are likely to strengthen from Friday. As a result, the prevailing fog, cold day and cold wave conditions are likely to continue for two more days and decrease in intensity and duration subsequently,” the all-India weather bulletin issued by IMD stated on Thursday.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet, on the other hand, stated that a frequent change in the wind direction is taking place due to recurrent western disturbances. “The definite direction of the winds, which is normally north-westerly during this time of the year, is not able to set up. Further, the speed of the winds is also less due to which dense to very dense fog has been ruling over the north-western plains. Due to persistent fog, the day temperatures also remained on the lower side leading to cold day conditions,” the Skymet report said, adding east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar will have to wait for some more days to witness improvement in extreme cold weather conditions.
 
 
