PUNE: The lure of gifts from an online friend cost a 34-year-old woman engineer from Dhayari Rs 6.48 lakh last year. The person she befriended through a social networking site duped her on the pretext of sending her foreign currency and costly gifts between October and December last year.

 
 The woman and her husband waited for the parcel for over five months. When they realised that they would never get the free gift, the man on Thursday approached   police station and lodged a complaint against six persons including a woman who claimed to be an officer from the  .
 
 “We have booked the duo under sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act,” said  , inspector of Sinhagad Road police.
 
 The complainant and his wife both are engineers. His wife is working in a city-based electronics company. In October 2017, a person named   from London sent her a friend request on her social networking account. “After befriending him, the woman began chatting with him through the mobile messenger,” an officer from the Sinhgad Road police said.
 
 The officer said the suspect told the woman he would sent her gifts from London. “Initially, the woman refused. But he told her that he would send the gift on a different name so that her family would not suspect anything amiss,” the officer said, adding that a few days later the woman received a message from the suspect saying that her gift was on the way to India.
 
 On October 24, the woman received a call on her cellphone from a woman who introduced herself as Sunita, an officer from Delhi customs. The ‘officer’ told the woman that she needed to pay Rs 27,000 as registration charges for her parcel which had arrived from London. “The woman transferred the amount to the account number given by the woman,” he said.
 
 After a few days, the ‘officer’ again contacted the woman and told her that the gift was in the form of pounds and since they were valued at 32 lakh pounds, she needed to pay a fine of Rs 86,000.
 
 “On November 4 last year, the woman transferred the amount,” the officer said adding, “After some days the woman was told to pay Rs 1.46 lakh more as fine. This time, the woman’s husband transferred the amount from his bank account.”
 
 Between October 27 and December 19, the woman had transferred Rs 4.22 lakh from her bank account and her husband transferred Rs 2.26 lakh from his bank account. “Totally, they had transferred Rs 6.48 lakh for the gift which they never got,” the officer said.
 
 When no gift was forthcoming, the couple called her friend. “But he had disconnected his cellphone and deleted his account on the social media. They waited for the parcel for a few months and then came to us,” the officer said.
 
 A probe revealed that the complainant’s amount was transferred to seven different bank accounts in Delhi and in   in Gujarat. “These accounts were in three public sector banks. Our probe is on,” the officer said.
 
