BENGALURU: After the last-place finish at 2016 Rio Olympics, the pressure will be on the Rani Rampal-led Indian women’s hockey team to perform at the   next month. The team think-tank has gone with experience and form while picking the 18-member squad which was announced here on Wednesday.

 
 The 2002 Manchester Games champions haven’t been able to replicate the success since. After a silver-medal finish in 2006, they finished fifth in the previous two editions of the event. But chief coach   is confident that the team will settle for nothing less than the podium. His confidence stems from the team’s showing at the Asia Cup late last year - where they emerged champions - and the successful tour of Korea this month.
 
 Sounding bullish about the team’s chances, Harendra said: “The team composition has a good balance of experience and young talent. I read impossible as ‘I’m possible.’ So we believe we are going to Gold Coast to win a medal. We’ve 10 games which separate us from the gold medal. I am 100 per cent confident the girls will go the extra mile. We’ve prepared ourselves well for each opponent, which also includes individual preparations. I always want to eclipse the Mt Everest (and go for the gold medal at the  ). I am not interested in Kanchenjunga or K2. Whoever has the most oxygen at the end of the tournament, they will emerge the champions.”
 
 Experienced goalkeeper Savita Punia has been named Rani’s deputy in a team which sees the return of defender Deepika and striker Poonam to good form. Both players have been out of action for the better part of a year and returned to impress during the Korea tour. “They have a lot of experience in the bag. Both girls have contributed to the team’s progress in Korea. I hope the same continues towards the team and their individual improvement.”
 
 Outlining the importance of the year, the Junior World Cup-winning coach pointed out: “The year 2018 is important for women’s hockey. It starts with the Commonwealth Games, then you have the World Cup and immediately after that, you have the Asian Games. These three tournaments are important in that order in improving our ranking. The Asian Games will give us a spot in the Tokyo 2020 Olympics so it’s the most crucial of all.” 
 
 
 
 
  Savita (vice-cap), Rajani Etimarpu
 
 
  Deepika, Sunita Lakra, Deep Grace Ekka, Gurjit Kaur, Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam 
 
 
  Monika, Namita Toppo, Nikki Pradhan, Neha Goyal, Lilima Minz
 
 
  Rani (captain), Vandana Katariya, Lalremsiami, Navjot Kaur, Navneet Kaur, Poonam Rani.
 
