NEW DELHI: BJP president Amit Shah on Monday asserted that the   mandate was against   and said the saffron party would have formed the government if rivals Congress and JD(S) had not closed ranks and locked up their MLAs. He accused Congress of lying to   that BJP’s CM candidate B S   had sought seven days from Governor to prove his majority. 

 
 Calling the 
  as an “unholy alliance”, Shah justified BJP’s decision to stake claim for the first shy at government formation in Bengaluru by saying Congress finished way behind the saffron party which emerged as the single largest party and missed the majority mark by just eight seats. 
 
 While former CM   lost from one of the seats he contested, a number of his erstwhile ministerial colleagues failed to get re-elected, the BJP chief said as he mocked at the Congress claims. Talking to reporters, Shah also attacked Congress and JD(S) for suddenly forging a coalition.“JD(S) fought the polls to defeat Congress and then joined hands with it against the wishes of the voters and hence it is an unholy alliance,” said the BJP chief as he claimed that the party’s two rivals will fail to provide a stable government because of contradictions. 
 
 It was Shah’s first press conference post-BJP’s failure to wrest the reins of Karnataka and he was at his combative best in rejecting the charge of horse-trading. Reiterating that it is Congress which had sold off its entire “stable”, the BJP chief also taunted the party for having to keep its MLAs “locked up in hotel rooms” under strict vigil. “They will lose their majority if the MLAs are released even now. MLAs are uncomfortable with the sudden tie-up between erstwhile adversaries. Imagine asituation where they have not been even allowed to take victory processions,” he said. 
 
 Shah said Congress has found a new way of portraying defeat as its victory and hoped this definition continues till 2019, a reference to the Lok Sabha polls. Shah also asked Congress to explain to the people of Karnataka why they were celebrating when most of their ministers had lost election. “Only Congress and JD(S) are celebrating, people of Karnataka are not (celebrating),” he said. “The mandate given by people of Karnataka was against Congress. There is no confusion about it. 
 
 If we had not staked claim to form government, it would have been against the mandate of the people,” he said. 
 
 Shah also countered opposition allegations that BJP had staked claim in Karnataka to form government after emerging as the single largest party, while denying the same opportunity to Congress in Goa and Manipur when it returned with better numbers.. He said, “Since Congress did not stake claim in Goa and Manipur, the Governor asked the second party to form government…” Taking a dig at Congress and opposition parties for recent attempts to bring an impeachment motion against the CJI Dipak Misra, Shah said, “Congress is now starting to have faith in constitutional bodies like the SC, EC and they even like EVMs.”
 
