BENGALURU: Preliminary investigation by home department officials pointed to several chinks in the security cover for   P Vishwanath Shetty.

 The first lapse was the door-frame metal detector installed at the entrance of the Lokayukta’s office in MS Building which has been defunct for the past three months with no effort made to repair or replace it. All visitors, including accused  , gained entry without being screened for carrying prohibited items.
 
 The second lapse was in the absence of manual checking by police personnel at the entrance. “When the metal detectors are not working, police personnel are supposed to physically frisk the visitors. But this didn’t happen today,” a home department official said.
 
 The third lapse is laxity on the part of the gunman and staff attached to Justice Shetty’s office. “We learnt that the accused created a commotion in the building before he barged into Justice Shetty’s office. If this is true, what were the gunman and office staff doing when they knew a frustrated man was trying to enter Justice Shetty’s chamber?” a home department official asked.
 
 Home minister R Ramalinga Reddy said an inquiry will be conducted into alleged security lapses and action will be taken. 
 
 Meanwhile, opposition parties slammed the   government for failing to give adequate protection to the Lokayukta. “Stabbing the Lokaukta is a pointer to the deteriorating law & order situation in the state. If the   is not safe in the state, how can an ordinary citizen be?” asked BJP spokesperson Malavika Avinash. 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah said police are finding out how the man entered Justice Shetty’s office with a weapon. Asked if it was a security failure as alleged by opposition parties Siddaramaiah said; “Many come to meet me too with their problems. How would staff know their intentions?”
 
 CM orders review of security at VS and other govt offices
 
 Bengaluru: Chief minister Siddaramaiah has directed home minister Ramalinga Reddy and other senior ministers to review the security in and around Vidhan Soudha, Vikas Soudha, high court, MS Building and other important government offices. 
 
 Siddaramaiah, who chaired the cabinet meeting on Wednesday, directed Reddy to review the secuirty while expressing concerns over security lapses at the Lokayukta office that led to the   Justice P Vishwanath Shetty. 
 
 “The meeting will be held in a day or two and security will be thoroughly reviewed. The senior police officials will also attend the meeting,” a senior minister said. 
 
 
