When we meet her,   has a khaki coat over her salwar, and has no make-up on. The attire is her look for her new serial Gouri, in which she plays the title role, as an auto driver. The 21-year-old actress says her role has a lot of resemblances with her real life, for Gouri is no clichéd teary-eyed heroine but a hero in her own right. It is easy to strike a conversation with Navami, who is now known as Gouri among the audience. In a tete-a-tete, the chirpy young actress from Kalpetta, Wayanad, tells us about her role, family, acting career and more.

 
 
 It was Benny sir, a teacher of mine who ignited an interest in cultural activities in me, while I was in Class 11. Later my focus turned to modelling and I found a space in the ad industry. I was also lucky to make my acting debut through the film Njan Ninnodu Koodeyundu directed by Priyanandan. I am able to balance acting with academics, and am doing my BA in politics at St Mary's College, Meenangadi.
 
 My father, Murali Gayak, is an automobile mechanic and owns a workshop in our hometown. So I am familiar with all kinds of vehicles including trucks and even a Bullet. I had posted a few photos of me riding a motorbike on my social media page. Interestingly the director of the serial Venu sir was looking for someone who knows how to drive heavy vehicles for Gouri! 
 
 When the makers approached me with the script I was hesitant as it was a serial. But when I heard the story, Gouri captured my heart. It was my mother who suggested that I give it a try. During the initial episodes my elder sister Nayana would accompany me to the shooting sets. Sometimes when the schedules lagged, I would get upset. It was she who boosted my confidence and encouraged me to get into the skin of the character amidst all the stress. 
 
 
 
 Gouri is an independent girl. After the death of her father she manages to survive and takes care of her mother and younger sister. But fate plays a bad trick on her and her sister gets molested. She kills the man who abused her sister for which she is sent to jail. But when Gouri returns after her jail sentence, she finds that her mother is dead and that her sister has abandoned her.
 
 To make a living, she becomes an auto driver. The serial is about her and the people she comes across. Gouri is thin and frail in appearance but is strong within. I learnt to drive my auto named Rajakumari in the serial in an hour, from its original owner, Suresh. The serial has influenced me a lot! I now wish to own an auto rickshaw and be its driver. Though I had acted in a film earlier, people recognise me as an actor through Gouri.
 
 Through this soap, I got a taste of the difficulties a girl would face in her life if she is left alone. It is also about women empowerment as it portrays instances where women face challenges in life rather than evading them. I am like Gouri in real life as we share the same boldness and straightforward attitude. I also ride jeeps and heavy motorbikes in real life, just like her. I felt that I did justice to my role when my friends told me that Gouri inspired them. 
 
 
 I was active in sports and was a state-level boxing champion during my school days. Before the serial I used to train in boxing but now I’m not able to find time for my boxing practice sessions. Mary Kom is a great inspiration for aspiring boxers like me. I am also an ardent fan of action movies, regardless of the language.
 
 
 
 I have been receiving lot of movie offers in Malayalam and Tamil, but at present my focus is only on Gouri. I am choosy and will think about a film in the future if the role strikes a chord with me.
 
