JAIPUR: State education department will ask the district education officers to form   in each government secondary and senior secondary schools from the coming academic session. 

 It aims to bring confidence among students and seek assistance from the alumni in developing infrastructure. The formal announcement of the programme will be made on February 26. The teaching staffs of each school have to trace the notable alumni, including bureaucrats, army personals, judges and politicians who will lead these associations.
 
 State education minister   says that these associations are next level of reforms in the education sector. "A strong alumni association can accelerate the pace of development of schools. They not only provide employment opportunities, encourage donations but also gives students a reason to feel proud of their Alma mater and making them more responsible towards education," said Devnani.
 
 The department is sure of the success of the programme which doesn't require any financial help. 
 
 State has 11900 secondary and senior schools. The department has started identifying several serving officers in Rajasthan and outside who have studied from the government schools. These officers will be approached to lead the associations and help in developing these schools. "I will take a lead from Jawahar School in Ajmer. I passed out from this school and still have vivid memories. This school has played a vital role in what I am today. I will track down the notable alumni including some from my batch to join the association," said Devnani. 
 
 The department has drawn a parallel from the private institutes who gets wide assistance from their alumni. The alumni associations help in building infrastructure along with providing employment opportunities to their juniors. The minister says that one day has to reserved for the get together of alumni. "The powers of alumni will soon be defined," said Devnani. School principals have been assigned the task of identifying the areas in school which require immediate attention before the alumni members. 
 
 
