Tirunelveli: For 26-year-old R Lakshmana Perumal, ranked 238 in the all-India civil services exam results declared recently, it was a bill collector in a panchayat in Tirunelveli district who served as the inspiration. That woman was none other than his mother. He was among nearly a dozen aspirants who wrote the main examinations in Tamil but among the very few who cleared it. “I did not nurse any dream of becoming an IAS officer till college. During my college days, my mother V Parvathi, who is still a bill collector with Kallidaikurichi panchayat, once told me how she serves people in her capacity as a government servant in the Group C category. She asked me to think about the multitude I could serve if I were an IAS officer. That was the turning point,” Lakshmana Perumal told TOI. Hailing from Vikramasingapuram in Ambasamudram taluk, he completed schooling in two government aided schools here with Tamil as medium of instruction. He pursued Electronics and Communication Engineering in Government College of Engineering Tirunelveli where he did face difficulties coping with English as the medium of instruction in the first year. “But professors and friends helped me out,” he said. Hard work ensured that English was never a hurdle for him in the subsequent three years. Though he was not into serious preparations for the civil service examinations, he read preliminary books on Indian history during his college days. He got placed in Tata Consultancy Services as an assistant systems engineer from 2012 to 2015. Though the work went on well, he could not focus on his civil services dream. In January 2015, he quit the job and started preparing for the exams. Joining a renowned institution in Chennai, Lakshmana Perumal has cleared the civil services examination in his third attempt. He could not clear the preliminary examinations in the first attempt and managed to make it only till the interview in the second. Finally, he cleared the exams to realise his dreams in the third attempt. Stating that there were ample books and reference materials in Tamil for civil services, he added that there were also quite a few IAS officers who had successfully cleared the exams in Tamil. “I found it convenient to express my views in my mother tongue in writing. But I confidently took the interview in English,” he added. As he waits for training, the youth is busy guiding aspirants who would be taking up the civil services examinations on June 3. “Some of them came home on knowing that I have cleared the exams. Some government libraries have also invited me to motivate their member students and aspirants. I want to motivate government school students with Tamil medium background to take up civil service exams with confidence,” he said.