SHIMLA: When in opposition, the BJP had accused the   government of not preparing detailed project reports (DPRs) of 62 national highways sanctioned to the state by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government in New Delhi. After coming to power, in the first meeting of public works department held on Monday, chief minister   directed the department to fix March 31 deadline for awarding consultancy services for preparing DPRs of all 62 declared national highways.

 While presiding over the review meeting of the department in Shimla, Thakur said DPRs need to be prepared well in time and work be started on these national highways at the earliest.
 
 Of the 69 national highways totalling 4,400 km, 62 are with the state government, one with the BRO, two with   and Other Infrastructure Development Corporation (HPRIDC) and three with National Highway and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL). One national highway was jointly with government of   and other agency.
 
 “I want to see the ground work done and people of the state expect the same from the PWD,” the CM said, adding that upgrading and maintenance of the existing road projects should be expedited. Thakur also asked the officials to prepare a road map for connecting all left-out panchayat headquarters with roads and to connect those villages and hamlets which remain devoid of road connectivity till date.
 
 Terming the monitoring as an essential component of any work to be carried out, he said officers concerned should monitor the works regularly and give necessary feedback. “By any means, if the work gets delayed without a valid reason, the officials concerned should be ready to face action,” he said.
 
 Chief secretary Vineet Chawdhry on the need to speed up the works, particularly that of bridges. He advised the department to cut short the time frame for completion of works without compromising with quality and added that the government wants to see activity on ground level by April or May. He also advised to install signage on the national highways on which work was in progress.
 
