NEW DELHI: Ahead of the 2010 Commonwealth Games, the erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi commissioned nine multilevel   projects, eight of which came under the jurisdiction of south corporation after trifurcation. Eight years on, only three of these facilities are  .

 Among the three corporations, only SDMC is financially stable, but the civic body has failed to ensure timely completion of these projects, which could help decongest several parts of the city. 
 
 
  
 
 Officials, however, claimed that the remaining parking lots would be fully operational by July. During the previous civic polls, SDMC had proposed to inaugurate all facilities by April 2017. The promise, obviously, remained on paper.
 
 The facility at New Friends Colony was completed last year. However, contractors moved court citing non-payment of dues. As a result, the site remains locked. BM Bakshi, president of New Friends Colony RWA, said: “There is no space on roads as every lane is occupied by vehicles. We had pinned our hopes on the multilevel underground facility. The local councillor had unofficially inaugurated it, but it was locked again after two days. It is a total waste of money and resources.” 
 
 Residents of Subhash Nagar Block 6 rued that more than five years after a baraat ghar near Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha was demolished to create a multilevel parking facility, the site remained dug up with concrete beams protruding out. The situation is similar at Subhash Nagar Block 10 where even the basic structure appears to be far from completion. The facility at Jangpura is still under construction and no work has been undertaken in the last six months because SDMC has stopped releasing funds. The Hauz Khas multilevel parking facility is a classic case of mismanagement. Opened by Arun Jaitley in 2012, the site has been inaugurated multiple times since then, but only a few vehicles can be seen parked inside. 
 
 A senior south corporation official told TOI: “The facilities at Subhash Nagar Block 10 and Rajouri Garden are near completion and an NOC from the fire department is awaited. Another parking lot at Subhash Nagar Block 6 will be completed by June while the other two, at Jangpura and New Friends Colony, are stuck in a court battle.” The civic body hopes that once the legal hurdles are cleared, these can be thrown open to the public as well.
 
 
