BENGALURU: New Age private clubs are picking up pace in Bengaluru and are aiming to become alternatives to older clubs where waiting period runs into many years.
 
  
 They provide similar services, though some have a more premium feel. Unlike older clubs that are run as not for profits, the newer ones are commercial ventures and therefore cost more. But, they find that many New Generation working professionals and entrepreneurs are willing to pay more to get immediate facilities. “It’s a coming together of like-minded people and a new version of the traditional clubs, where there is a barrier to entry,” said Siddhartha Mankani, MD of Embassy Leisure, which manages the club in the luxury residential project Embassy Boulevard in north Bengaluru.
 
 The barrier is the long waiting period for membership.  , one of the most prestigious clubs in the city, has a waiting period of 14-15 years and inducts only 100 new members every year.
 
 Embassy’s Boulevard Club opened in December. It’s built over 100,000 sqft and consists of guest suites, spa, gym, restaurants, banquet space and sports facilities. It can accommodate 500 family memberships for non-residents, besides its residents. It also accepts corporate memberships.
 
 Property developer Brigade has clubs including the Galaxy in Brigade Gateway, and the latest   in Brigade Orchards, close to the airport. Three others – Woodrose, Augusta and Region – were set up more than a decade ago. The Signature Club is the biggest, and provides facilities similar to that of Embassy. It can have 3,000 resident and non-resident members.
 
 Adarsh Developers has a club in its Palm Meadows project in Whitefield and while it does not allow non-residents to be members, it allows them to use services on a pay-peruse basis. The 175,000-sqft club has a top-class restaurant.
 
 
 
 Vineet Verma, CEO of Brigade Hospitality, said each club requires investments of about Rs 50 crore, excluding the land cost, and takes about 6-7 years to break even. The average age of members is between 35 and 40.
 
 “The traditional clubs, despite their elegance, have a next-to-impossible waiting list. With income levels and lifestyle aspirations up, it’s natural for people to come to the newer clubs,” Verma said.
 
 Adarsh chief financial officer Suresh Kumar said many older clubs had lost their charm because of lack of maintenance on account of inadequate funds.
 
 Many older clubs haven’t increased their membership fees much over the years. Even a premium one like the Bangalore Club charged just Rs 2 lakh for a lifetime membership till two years ago; since then it has raised it to Rs 5 lakh. On the contrary, Embassy charges Rs 2 lakh per year for a family of four, and Brigade charges Rs1 lakh for a three-year membership, Rs 3 lakh for 10 years, and Rs 5 lakh for a membership till 2060.
 
 “A club needs a nice bar and restaurant and if these two are lacking, it is a problem,” Kumar said.
 
 Most say new clubs will only expand the array of options for people and cannot replace traditional ones. “It is a case of cohabiting peacefully,” Brigade’s Verma said.
 
 
