The New Year brings a lot of new resolutions and wishes for everyone but, let’s face it, very few of us actually fulfil those. But then,   is not us. The beautiful lady started 2018 with a bang, literally! Showing off her toned body in a photo that has since gone viral, Sai gave showed us how fitness goals are achieved, complete with a wild vibe. In a chat with us, the actress opens up about friendships, fitness and love (something she might’ve found again).

  
 
 
  (Laughs) Well, what can I say? I’m really proud of myself right now.
 
  
 
  No, I’ve done this for my happiness. Frankly, I am a laid back person and need a push to do something. Even since   (for which Sai had put on 10 kilos), I was thinking of doing this but it took some time to get into that zone. The last five months have been testing. I worked out for almost two and a half hours daily and followed a healthy diet to achieve this body. This is my beginning of a very positive 2018.
 
  
 
 
  Fortunately, I don’t have a sweet tooth so there were no cravings. What I missed most during these five months was the simple poli-bhaaji meals. You won’t believe, I would see poli-bhaaji in my dreams!
 
  
 
 
  I have very high expectations from the   this year, especially because some rare subjects will come to the fore. 2017, for me, was pretty chilled out, but now it’s time to get back into work-mode.
 
  
 
 
  The reach of the Marathi industry needs to increase and everyone needs to work towards it. Cinema shouldn’t be put in the regional bracket and national media should welcome it with open arms. I feel bad when people say ‘Marathi picture ke baare mein suna hai, par kabhi dekha nahi’. This year I hope that changes and everyone watches Marathi films. 
 
  
 
 
  
  I never planned my life to be this way. In fact, I never plan anything because I am bad at it. However, I give 100 per cent to whatever I do. So, no, I hadn’t expected so much appreciation and love but I am happy to be getting it because it motivates me to do more.
  
 
 
  Insecurities are a part of the industry and everyone has them. But, in the Marathi industry, friendships emerge above insecurities. There is no cutthroat competition and the industry is based on good relations; it’s pretty sorted that way.
 
  
 
 
  I just love the vibe of the city. The moment I enter the city, I feel a sense of calm. My ex-husband is from Pune so my bond with the city is very strong.
 
  
 
 
  (Cheekily) Maybe.
 
  
  
 
