BENGALURU: A 55-year-old real estate agent committed suicide at his south Bengaluru residence, minutes calling the police control room. He informed police that he is taking the extreme step because a financier was harassing him over a pending loan.

 Venkatesh Kumar, resident of  , near  , off  , sent city police into a tizzy as they found it difficult to locate him and his residence. They knocked on his doorstep 30 minutes after the call, only to find him hanging from the ceiling.
 
 The call came to the control room around 10.30am. “My name is Venkatesh and I am being harassed by a financer from whom I had taken a loan of Rs 2 lakh for my elder daughter’s marriage. His harassment is unbearable and I am committing suicide now,” he said. Before police could make sense of the contents of the call, Venkatesh hung up.
 
 Since the caller did not mention any other details including his address, sleuths in the police control room were clueless on how to proceed. “It was a first-of-its-kind situation. We immediately brought the matter to the notice of senior officials,” sources in the control room told TOI.
 
 “We tried calling back on the mobile number from which the call had come. Unfortunately, it was switched off. With assistance from the technical team, we traced the location to Annapurneshwarinagar and alerted Konanakunte police,” sources said.
 
 Tracking the address from the service provider would have been a time-consuming affair. Teams from Konanakunte police started looking for the house. “The only clue we had was the mobile number. We interacted with locals, asking whether they know the person using the number,” police said.
 
 Finally by 11am, cops located the address. “By the time we reached his house, the door was locked from inside. We broke open the door only to find him hanging from the ceiling in a room,” police said,
 
 Venkatesh was alone at home when the incident occurred. His wife,   who works as an house-keeping assistant, son and younger daughter, who work in garment factories, were away at work, police said.
 
 
