BARASAT: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee took stock of the   in   on Tuesday in abid to keep pace with the changing   and Jessore Road. The CM told officials at the   to see to it that board examinees do not get stuck up in traffic snarls one their way to examination centres.

 The two key projects are six-lane expansion of the BT Road from Dunlop to Barrackpore and construction of an elevated corridor connecting Belgharia Expressway and Kalyani Expressway. The projects have been taken up to de-congest the North 24 Parganas district headquarters Barasat town.
 
 While the expansion of the BT Road has been planned taking into account the increased traffic load due to the upcoming residential high-rises, connecting expressways will help in taking away a major part of the heavy vehicular traffic from Jessore Road. Heavy vehicles from neighbouring Burdwan, Hooghly and Howrah may not need to take Jessore Road after the construction of the elevated corridor. They can avail the bypass route to take the Kalyani Expressway at a much lesser time. Taking Belgharia Expressway from Dakshineswar is the shortest route to reach airport if one comes from Baranagar, Belgharia and from adjoining districts including Howrah and Hooghly. The expressway can also turn out to be a relief for vehicles going to north Bengal. This apart, the government has also taken up widening (four-lane) of the Bongaon-Chakdah Road.
 
 The CM also asked district magistrate Archana Bhattacharya to conduct a survey of huge tracts of government land along the Kalyani Expressway that have been illegally occupied at Bijpur and Halisahar or have change hands as some of these encroachers have posed themselves as fake owners. It’s a sheer coincidence that Mukul Roy and his son and Bijpur MLA Subhrangshu have influence in the area. “I have received many complaints from the area,” the CM said.
 
 Responding to actor-turned Barasat MLA Chiranjeet, the CM asked the sports department to undertake an overhaul of the Vidyasagar Stadium that hosts national level football matches.
 
 
