CHENNAI: Now, unborn children can get admission in schools. Mulling over school admissions even before planning a family may sound like joke cracked by a stand-up comedian, but for some young couples in the city it is a reality. 

 The father of a six-month-old child was stumped when he was told that he was “too late” for planning admission, not for the current batch, but for the 2022 batch at a reputed school. 
 
 Sishya School, Adyar (ICSE) is known to carry out registrations for batches much in advance, but some parents found it absurd when the school told them they had missed the deadline for a batch that would start classes four years later. 
 
 Aditya N, the surprised father, said: “The school told me that I was late as only those born in January 2018 or born in the coming months would be considered for admissions. As all other batches were full, I was told that as a special request I could approach the school committee later,” he said.
 
 When   contacted the school, it said all admissions for batches before 2022 were closed due to high demand while a notification on the school website called for appointments for registrations for LKG for 2022.
 
 But Malathi K of Aurro Educational Services said it ultimately came down to parents who feed this system of prior admissions. “It is better to carry out admissions for the present batch. These processes also affect   admissions due to high demand for filling the seats,” she said, adding that the “absurd” pattern should not be replicated by other institutions.
 
 Meanwhile, most CBSE schools are following the board’s early admission deadlines keeping parents on their toes. The window for applications which opened in February has closed for many institutions. Many schools are already in the process of verifying applications and admitting students for the upcoming academic year. 
 
 Schools which have put out the first round of admission lists have called students to attend classes for the next academic year by April first week which will be followed by a break later in the month. This has become the norm for many schools that start the academic year in April, take a break and then resume in June. “I was surprised when kindergarten level children were asked to come in April. For older children, these summer lessons have to be revisited when schools reopen in June so for the younger ones it makes no sense,” said Krishna*, whose child goes to Chinmaya Vidyalaya School.
 
 
