Anjali Deshpande, Nirmala Thormote, and others in a Warje neighbourhood have made their intent clear with the very name of their   - the ' '. 

 
 They have established something of a cooperative of housing societies; it's an ever-expanding list. Their work is almost game-changing: the collection and disposal of garbage with minimal impact to the environment, and with minimal involvement from the civic body. 
 
 The NGO urges housing societies in the area to get rid of   in a way that protects air, water and soil. 
 
 The group's founders were working with the state  , when it occurred to them that much can be accomplished if they brought in housing societies on board to dispose waste more safely.
 
 "We started off with a simple audio-visual presentation and went around housing societies, starting with my own  , which has 70 flats and about 200 residents," said Deshpande.
 
 "The presentation was created to mainly impress upon residents the fact that plastics are extremely harmful to use and difficult to dispose of. That's primarily because there are a variety of plastics which need different methods of disposal. And in all of those cases, the soil, air, and water are often severely affected," she added.
 
 But in this presentation, the group presented a radical solution. The residents themselves would separate plastic waste from regular garbage at source. And once every 15 days, staff of a private company - which has partnered with the NGO - would come and pick the plastic waste from the apartment complex for further processing. "That company,  , has a plant at Jejuri, which processes plastics of various types into fuel and other useful by-products the industry needs. While they are not directly involved in the initiative, they perform an important task by picking the waste from the housing societies at their own cost from the designated colour-coded bins from the apartments. The workers then take it to company's plant. The unit processes the waste with minimal impact on the environment," Deshpande added.
 
 The entire process took considerable planning and co-ordination, but the first garbage pick-ups started in the month of October last year. Since then, the model has started to increase in appeal. Over the past few months, four more housing societies, and hundreds of more people, have joined the initiative - all from the suburb of Warje. 
 
 The Do Save Foundation now wants a wider canvas to work on.
 
 On Republic Day this year, the group organised a rally aimed at persuading residents of the area to completely stop the use of plastics. But they are not stopping there. The NGO is currently working on a very specific goal, involving the next generation of Pune residents. 
 
 They have already done an audio-visual presentation at a number of schools, including one at Hadapsar. They are admittedly happy with the response they have received from students.
 
 "We have received a very good response from the children, and they are very good vehicles for such change. They are the ones who will go on and tell their parents about such new initiatives, and they were very enthusiastic about the programme," Deshpande said.
 
 
