Vadodara/ Anand: The board of the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (KDCMPUL) popularly known as Amul Dairy on Saturday had accepted resignation of dairy’s managing director (MD) Dr K Rathnam, who had put in his papers citing personal reasons. 

 But a day after the board accepted his resignation during a special board meeting, it has come to light that the members who accepted the MD’s resignation have also resolved that Rathnam will be held responsible in case the allegations of graft levelled against him are found true. 
 
 The revelation that the dairy’s board members have unanimously resolved to hold Rathnam liable for any loss to the iconic milk union comes at a time when Amul Dairy’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar has termed the reports of Rathnam resigning from the post after being found guilty of fraud as “far from truth” and “perpetuated by rumour mongers”. 
 
 After the board meeting, Parmar had stressed that Rathnam had resigned to pursue his personal interests and spend more time with his family based in the US. He had instead trained his guns at a particular director of the board whom he held responsible for spreading a web of lies and defaming Amul. 
 
 “We have unanimously resolved that if the charges are established, MD will be held responsible,” Rajendrasinh Parmar, Amul Dairy’s vice-chairman said on Sunday. 
 
 Ironically, Rajendrasinh, the Congress MLA from Borsad, had preferred to remain silent after Saturday’s board meeting even as he was sitting just next to Ramsinh who was busy answering queries of media persons.
 
 Meanwhile, confusion prevails over the fate of the probe which the dairy union had started in November last year by constituting a five-member committee to inquire into allegations of mismanagement and fraud. Rajendrasinh himself had moved the proposal to constitute the probe committee during the board meeting on November 11. 
 
 “But not a single committee meeting has been convened so far,” said Rajendrasinh, who is a committee member. 
 
 On Sunday, he maintained that he had raised objections to certain decisions which were being taken without keeping the board informed. 
 
 
