PANAJI: Nobody has a clue what’s next with the I-League, India’s premier football competition, at least on paper.

 
 Officials at the   ( ) are sitting with their hands crossed, waiting for directions from the Supreme Court. The I-League, earlier National Football League, just had one of its most memorable deadline day finishes since inception in 1996 with four teams in contention for the title. The average attendance from last season’s 6,500 spectators per match rose to 10,210 fans this season. And despite competing with the high-profile Indian Super League ( ) for attention, the I-League still managed to register a 58% increase in in-stadia attendance.
 
 Yet, the I-League is unlikely to see better days. “We can’t say anything for sure about the future,” AIFF general secretary   told TOI on Friday.
 
 “The Supreme Court has appointed an ombudsman to formulate the constitution. Since there is a question mark on the elections which were conducted, we don’t really know whether we would have to (just) change the constitution or have the election process again. If we need to conduct fresh elections, what happens to the committees,” asked Das.
 
 The Supreme Court has tasked former India captain Bhaskar Ganguly and former Chief Election Commissioner S.Y. Qureshi with formulating the AIFF constitution. Even I-League champions Minerva Punjab FC, who battled several odds to dramatically win the I-League in just its second season at the top, are clueless where the competition is headed.
 
 “I have not prepared a roadmap because the AIFF hasn’t told me what’s happening next. Unless they tell me, I cannot plan for the future,” said Minerva owner Ranjit Bajaj.
 
 Officially, the I-League is the premier competition with the winners qualifying for the AFC Champions League play-off. But since the inception of the ISL in 2014, the I-League has been left on its last legs. Its death could come any moment.
 
 Some would say the I-League was dead anyway. If it was alive and kicking, there wouldn’t be ISL.
 
 “As long as the I-League winners get an AFC Champions League spot, I am fine with this (two leagues) arrangement. Minerva are national champions and we should remain in the top league,” said Bajaj.
 
 Two-time I-League champions Bengaluru FC left the competition last year to join ISL, which was expanded from eight teams to 10 this season. The next expansion will happen in 2019 when two or four more teams could be added. It will provide a window of opportunity for Kolkata giants Mohun Bagan and East Bengal to jump ship after missing out in 2017, of course at a price. ATK, the Kolkata franchise in the ISL, will no longer have exclusive rights over the city after the first five years of the league, paving the way for the Kolkata giants to join the bandwagon.
 
