KALYAN: Nearly two months after a commuter was killed in a robbery inside a railway subway in   (East), a 52- year old businessman was robbed by a gang at the same spot late Wednesday. The second robbery has again raised questions about safety of commuters passing through the subway as it gets deserted at night. Residents of Kolsewadi are forced to take the dingy subway as construction of a skywalk on the stretch has been delayed for years.

  
  On Wednesday, Harishankar Pandey, a resident of Davdi village in  , was attacked by five men, who fled with his mobile phone and bag containing Rs 10,000 cash and valuables worth Rs 20,000. The incident happened around 11.45 pm when Pandey, who has a shop in Ghatkopar, was returning home on his two-wheeler that he parks at the station.
 
 
  
  
 
 When Pandey was nearing the subway, he saw someone putting his hand forward and asking him to stop. Pandey decided to ignore the stranger, but he had to slow down a little ahead because of potholes in the subway. However, as he slowed down, four to five men lunged at him. They assaulted him and escaped after robbing him. Pandey, who sustained only minor injuries, went to the local Kolsewadi police station and lodged a complaint. A robbery case has been registered against five unidentified people.
 
 Asked about the incident, V N Nalavade, an investigator from Kolsewadi police station, said, “We are searching for the culprits. We are also scanning through footage of the CCTV camera at the railway station to identity the accused.” The cops have to depend on CCTV footage from the station, around 500 metres away, because there are no cameras near the subway, which is in the railway yard area, even after a murder at the spot on April 4. After that incident, DCP Dr Sanjay Shinde had instructed the local police to increase patrolling in the subway area.
 
 Residents are angry that the   has still not completed the skywalk work even though construction started around five years ago. Munna Tiwari, a local   leader, blamed the   ruling alliance in   for the delay. “If the skywalk had been constructed on time, such such incidents wouldn’t happen,”   said.
 
 
