GURUGRAM: A 25-year-old  , Vicky, lost his life while trying to save his two co-workers who were working inside   pipelines in Sector 9 on Friday. 

 
 According to police sources, Vicky jumped into the sewer pipeline when he realised that the two men were trapped inside and were having trouble breathing. 
 
 However, even though the trapped men were rescued with the help of an earth-mover, Vicky succumbed to toxic gases.
 
 Sudhir Kumar, SHO, Sector 9 police station, said that Vicky died of suffocation from the toxic gases inside the sewer pipeline and some loose soil also fell on him, trapping him and suffocating him further. 
 
 “It was an accident, we have received a complaint and are carrying out an investigation,” he added. 
 
 On being asked if an FIR had been registered in the matter yet, Kumar neither confirmed nor denied it. 
 
 According to sources, the two sanitation workers, who were rescued and whose identities could not be confirmed, were working to link an old sewer pipeline with a newly constructed pipeline in Sector 9. 
 
 The workers did not have any oxygen masks and started suffocating as soon as they opened the gate of the old pipeline. 
 
 “As soon as they opened the gate of the old pipeline, toxic gases engulfed them. This is when Vicky went in to save them,” said Ram Singh, union leader of MCG sanitation workers. The rescued workers were taken to the hospital and are out of danger.
 
 Singh added that Vicky was working for a MCG contractor and was also related to him. The contractor could not be approached for a comment. MCG joint commissioner (zone 1) Mukesh Kumar did not reply to calls or messages. 
 
 This is the fourth incident in less than a year of a worker dying in a sewer pipeline. As in all such cases, none of the workers had oxygen masks this time, too. 
 
 In October last year, three housekeeping workers of an auto spare parts company near Hero   died of suffocation while trying to save one of their colleagues from drowning in a septic tank.
 
 Sanitation workers have time and again been asking for basic requirements such as uniforms, oxygen masks, gloves and cleaning supplies. 
 
 After continuous strikes by workers, MCG had assured them at the end of 2017 that they would be given essential supplies in two months. 
 
 However, over six months later, workers are still risking their lives for cleaning the city’s filth.
 
 
