KOLKATA: A sense of reprieve prevailed on the DM’s office premises at   on Tuesday, perhaps for the first time this month. The area had been on boil over the submission of nominations for the panchayat polls with several outsiders taking control of the area, threatening and assaulting everyone — from officials and lawyers to journalists and locals.

 “For the first time this month, the area in front of my office door is uncluttered. For the last few days, men who looked like goons used to come in morning, park their bikes right outside my seresta and crowd in front of the entrance to the chamber. I requested them several times to move away but they only hurled abuses. They even shooed away several of my clients over the past few days. Thankfully, the nomination process is over and Ican work again,” said a senior lawyer at the Alipore court.
 
 The court premises house the office of Treasury Building and  , where the nomination submission process was under way between April 2 and April 9 and then again on April 23. The process witnessed large-scale violence, with opposition party candidates claiming they were prevented from submitting nominations and several journalists were assaulted when they tried to take footage and photographs of the violations.
 
 It also house several government offices, including the office of motor vehicles department and the South 24 Parganas district magistrate’s office, a civil and criminal court, with hundreds of lawyers, court employees and people involved with preparing legal documents at work.
 
 “I was stopped at the gates on multiple occasions and my bags were checked. On Monday, they stopped me and even snatched my voter card when I picked up an argument with them. They thrashed me and forced me to leave the compound where I have been working for over 20 years,” said  , a deed writer.
 
 Elderly typist   also faced similar situation. “I, however, chose not to pick up a fight. They allowed me to sit at my desk but there were no clients on most days this month,” said Roy, who earns around Rs 250-300 per day.
 
 Such was the fear and insecurity among the people frequenting the area that many of them didn’t even open their shops on most of the days. “It was a nuisance over the past few days. On Monday, I saw them dragging a woman reporter to a corner, in front of policemen. As I came out of my shop watching the woman in distress, they threatened me to shut down my shop immediately. I didn’t argue,” said  , who runs a tea and snacks stall and earns around Rs 600 per day.
 
 Bikash Manik, who runs a mobile sweet shop on the court premises, said he had set up his shop in Majerhat on most days of this month.
 
