NEW DELHI: The insolvency resolution professional for   has accused the ailing company of “fraudulently and wrongfully” mortgaging 858 acre land to secure the loans of  , its parent company. It has also alleged that the transaction amounted to “asset stripping”.

 
 In a petition filed before the   bench, which had ordered the initiation of insolvency proceedings against   in August, the IRP has said that the land was valued at Rs 5,000-6,000 crore and was mortgaged to secure loans taken by   (JAL) from SBI, ICICI Bank, IDBI Bank and Standard Chartered Bank. The move took place at a time when banks had started classifying Jaypee Infratech as a “non-performing asset” due to loan defaults. 
 
 The company also had outstanding liability of Rs 132 crore to fixed deposit holders and was running behind schedule in delivering flats to home buyers.
 
 The petition by IRP, a court appointed professional to oversee restructuring of Jaypee Infratech, has said that the land could have been sold or mortgaged to raise funds and complete the construction of flats and prevent value erosion. Of the 33,000-odd apartments due to be delivered by Jaypee Infratech, nearly 25,000 are yet to be completed and are delayed until 2021. The mortgaged land parcels are in Gautam Budhh Nagar, Aligarh and Agra.
 
 “The mortgage of land is in the nature of asset stripping and entered into with the intent to defraud the creditors of the corporate debtor (Jaypee Infratech),” it said. Under the Insolvency Code, creditors includes lenders, other creditors and even home buyers. 
 
 A detailed questionnaire sent to a Jaypee spokesperson on Tuesday evening remained unanswered.
 
 The IRP has made a case for asking the directors and promoters of Jaypee Infratech to “make contributions”, implying that the land be restored to the company.
 
 Accusing the directors of failing to exercise due diligence, it has argued before NCLT that it could not find approvals which were obtained from the lenders to Jaypee Infratech to mortgage the land in favour of banks that had lent to JAL. Although the Jaypee Infratech board had approved the decision in meeting where lenders’ representatives were present, the IRP has argued that this could not be taken as a clearance or a no-objection, especially when the company was defaulting in loan repayment.
 
 While alleging that the mortgage was a “fraudulent and wrongful transaction” under section 66 of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, it has also described it as an “undervalued and preferential transaction” as described in the law that was enacted a little over a year ago.
 
 
