SURAT: The   has an old saying, ‘Surat nu jaman, ane   nu maran’ (eat in Surat and die in Kashi). However, most of the residents, unable to resist their tastebuds, flock to roadside eateries to gorge on pani-puri, samosa, pav-bhaji, omelette, Chinese food etc., thus ending up inviting health troubles for themselves. 

 According to an estimate, 70 per cent of the 50 lakh population in the Diamond City eat food from roadside eateries thrice a week. Consumption becomes more intense in summer months when kulfis and golas, juices and milk shakes are sold everywhere. It is a common sight on the city roads to see families thronging roadside ‘thelas’ to drink juice and milk shake to beat the heat. 
 
 Onset of summer ushers in a lot of scares about water-borne diseases in the city. Past experience has it that apart from heat stroke, it is water contamination and unhygienic ice-based items and other foods which are major cause of diseases, including jaundice, cholera etc. 
 
 The common ingredient used in cold food items is ice. Manufacturing of ice used by juice stalls, ice-golas and fruit vendors takes place in unhygienic condition at the ice factories across the city. It is a tough challenge for the Surat Municipal Corporation’s health department to carry out regular hygiene checks at roadside eateries.
 
 The bacterial pathogens commonly found in street eateries are bacillus cereus (causes vomiting and diarrhoea), clostridium perfringens (abdominal cramps and diarrhoea), staphylococcus aureus (vomiting, appetite loss, abdominal cramps and mild fever) and salmonella species (typhoid, food poisoning, irritation and inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract). 
 
 Chief medical officer, SMC, Dr Ashish Naik told TOI, “Regular checks are conducted at roadside stalls and many of them have been shut by our officers. If found in unhygienic condition, we make sure that the content of the whole eatery is destroyed on the spot. However, the task is enormous as city has nearly 50,000 roadside eateries and the staff is just around 20.” 
 
 “The basic source of sickness in summer months is contaminated water, which contains bacterial pathogens like E.coli. In the city like Surat, where people gorge on outside food and drink, it is a difficult task to close down all roadside eateries. However, the municipal corporation needs to spread awareness on harmful effects of roadside food prepared with contaminated water and in unhygienic condition,” medico-legal expert Dr Vinesh Shah said.
 
 
