NEW DELHI: With the Gujarat poll verdict indicating farm distress had put the ruling BJP on a weak wicket in rural areas, the government’s next   is likely to be more farmers’ centric focussing on getting them remunerative prices through market reforms and supporting them through robust credit facilities and by increasing the crop insurance footprint.

 Agrarian crisis will be one of the key issues in the run up to the assembly polls in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan and the general election and thus Budget 2018 will provide the government an opportunity to announce its intent. 
 
 “We had a good crop year in 2016-17, but   had to face problem in getting remunerative prices of their produce. This is something which we need to address and the budget is likely to focus on this aspect”, said a senior official who has been part of a team to extend agriculture ministry’s input for budget to the finance ministry.
 
 The Centre has already taken several measures to address the issue but will now attempt to strengthen it by taking actions like devising more systematic procurement method and expanding the network of e-NAM (e-National Agriculture Market) from 585 in 2018 to over 1,000 by 2020. The idea will be to bring more and more regulated market on e-NAM platform so that the farmers can get better price of their produce without being exploited by commission agents and cartel of traders.
 
 “The NITI Aayog and the Prime Minister’s economic advisory council too are working on it. Though agriculture is the subject where the states have to be on board for success of many schemes, the government’s focus in the budget is likely to be on allocating more fund for centrally-sponsored schemes”, said the official.
 
 The funds for expanding e-NAM’s footprints, cold chain, irrigation infrastructure, micro-irrigation and crop insurance scheme are expected to be increased.
 
 “Farmers need input subsidies and minimum support price (MSP) for their produce, but these two alone cannot solve the problem”, said the official while emphasising on the need to create robust market mechanisms for farm produce so that farmers don’t face a crisis in a good crop year like what the rural Gujarat faced. 
 
 The crop year 2016-17 (July-June) had seen record foodgrain production of 275.68 million tonnes. Besides, more farmers came under the network of the new crop insurance. Number of farmers, benefiting from crop insurance also increased in 2016-17 as compared to 2015-16. 
 
 All these, however, do not seem to have addressed the problems. Horticulture production also reached record levels, but did not prove to be a boon for farmers. There have been report of distress selling from many states.
 
 “These are the worrying signs. Loss due to disaster can be tackled through insurance. But the problem of plenty (bumper production) can only be tackled through robust market system, cold chain and effective procurement mechanism. The 2018-19 budget is likely to address these issues”, said the official.
 
 Farmers in Saurashtra-Kutch region, where the BJP’s tally went down as compared to 2012, saw prices of cotton and groundnut produce slide. Though the Centre had increased MSP and the state had extended bonus on it, poor procurement had forced farmers to go for distress sales in open markets that fetched them much lower price than the MSP.
 
