BATHINDA: Buckling under pressure of contractual employees of the   ( ), Bathinda, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has agreed to adjust all 635 workers in the corporation on contract basis but confusion persists as the agreement in writing is yet to arrive. The   authorities in a meeting on January 27 had assured the protesting contractual workers to adjust them but even after three days have not given any undertaking in writing. Under such circumstances the contractual workers are continuing with their protest outside the district administrative complex here, completing a month on Tuesday.

 The PSPCL director, administration, however, claims that an agreement has been reached and the PSPCL board will soon approve it. The contractual workers had given a call to hold a protest march by wearing black badges but after the district authorities asked them to talk to PSPCL officials in   on phone, they cancelled the march. The contractual works have been protesting, along with family members, from January 1, the day the plant was shut down.
 
 Contractual employees coordination committee convener   said the PSPCL management in a marathon meeting on January 27 had assured to adjust plant workers on contractual jobs in the PSPCL and had assured to come up with a written agreement by January 30. “We kept on waiting for the written agreement and on Tuesday, gave a call for taking out a protest march. It was only after this that the district authorities made us talk to officials, who further assured us of sending the written agreement in a couple of days. We will wait for it till February 1, failing which action will be taken accordingly.” He added that, “Even after we are adjusted on jobs the protest for opening of the thermal plant will continue, though the form of protest can change.”
 
 Director administration, PSPCL, R P   said the PSPCL had assured of adjusting all contractual employees in the corporation. The issue will be soon approved by the PSPCL board. The workers need to end protest now.” 
 
 
