GURUGRAM: Two of the 14 schools which opened   in the city have decided to shut them down.  ,  , and  ,  , said they were not informed that the nurseries would have to be run at least 22 days a month. Having sports nurseries invariably disrupts school activities, they claimed.

 The city got 14 sports nurseries, after a wait of about two years, in the first week of December last year. Although the sports department had intended to open 20 nurseries in private and government schools in the city, the number was later reduced to 14. Schools get an annual budget of Rs 1.2 lakh from the sports department to open and maintain sports nurseries. The nurseries train kids in archery, athletics, boxing, football, handball, hockey, kabaddi, kho-kho, volleyball and swimming.
 
 Paras Ram, district sports officer, said, “Many private schools where sports nurseries were opened decided that they would not continue them, as it hampers with academic activities.” However, no complaints have been received from government schools, so far.
 
 According to sources, one of the reasons private schools are getting cold feet in running sports nurseries is because they don’t want players from other schools to enter their premises. But Manav Rachna and Ajanta claimed they had other reasons. The management of Manav Rachna International School said, “The decision to close the sports nursery was taken due to the low number of players being trained.”
 
 Similarly, Vaibhav Kapoor, principal of Ajanta Public School, said: “There is only one playground in the school, and we have a football academy for our students. If both the academy players and kids from the sports nursery play the same game at the same time, how will players of other sports be given a chance?”
 
 The decision has disappointed players who were being trained at the two schools. Players are selected after a rigorous test, and are entitled to a monthly scholarship — Rs 1,500 (age 8-14) and Rs 2,000 (age 15-19). Yogesh Kumar, a sprinter who was undergoing training at the sports nursery in Manav Rachna, said, “I worked hard to get selected. I went to practice for a few days, but later I was told not to come back. Now, I won’t get training or the scholarship despite being selected.”
 
 “Children from weak financial backgrounds have been given preference in the sports nurseries. The sports department can do nothing at its own level, it can’t pressurise private schools to run nurseries. It’s their wish. We will have to think of some alternative for the players who won’t be able to train now,” Paras Ram told TOI.
 
