PATNA: The UGC recently granted almost full autonomy to the country’s 60 institutions of higher education, but not a single educational institution from Bihar is among them. Even Patna University, which recently celebrated its centenary year with PM   as the chief guest, has been left high and dry.

 The “autonomous” institutions will be free to decide their admission procedure, fee structure and curriculum. They will have the freedom to start new courses, off-campus centres, skill development courses, research parks and any other new academic programme. They will also have the freedom to hire foreign faculty, enrol foreign students, give incentive-based emoluments to faculty members, enter into academic collaborations and run open distance learning programmes, according to the UGC.
 
 About five months ago, PM   had turned down the state’s demand for conversion of  , the seventh oldest university in the country, into a central university and had asked the university to vie for a place among the top universities in the country likely to be developed into world-class universities.
 
 “Now, one can easily understand the fate of PU when it has not been included even in the 60 institutions selected for the grant of autonomy,” said a senior PU teacher.
 
 Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh wondered how as many as four institutions — Utkal University-Bhubaneswar, National Law University- Cuttack, Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology- Bhubaneswar and Shiksha O’ Anushandhan-Bhubaneswar — from the neighbouring state of   made it to the list of institutions selected for autonomy. Besides, two universities — Banaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University — from neighbouring UP and one ( Jadavpur University-Jadavpur) from   figure among the autonomous institutions.
 
 PU is reported to have missed the bus because it did not fulfil the UGC’s conditions for the grant of autonomy. The institutions selected are accreditated by NAAC with grade ‘A’ having a minimum score of 3.26. PU has not even applied for its accreditation till date. 
 
 Consequently, the university is becoming a loser on various fronts. Its Directorate of Distance Education stands derecognized by the Distance Education Bureau and fresh recognition won’t be granted to it unless the university is accreditated by NAAC.
 
 PU has, of late, started preparations on war footing for expediting its accreditation by NAAC. It is likely to upload its self study report to the NAAC website in May this year, said PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh.
 
 Some academics, however, feel that accreditation is not the only challenge facing this old university. It lags behind several other newer universities on various counts, including quality of teaching and research and infrastructural facilities. The teacher-ratio student is hopeless, with several departments being managed by a handful of teachers. 
 
 The placement scenario is also quite bleak as hardly few students are selected for jobs on the basis of campus interviews. Unless these shortcomings are removed and a sound academic atmosphere is restored, PU is unlikely to revive its old glory, the academics add.
 
 
