AHMEDABAD: Canadian PM Justin Trudeau’s visit to   on Monday, will be the first visit by any Canadian PM to Gujarat. The   (NRGs) settled in the   are happy and see it as a beginning of better business and cultural ties.

 Canada is home to about 2 lakh persons of Gujarati origin — not only from India but also from those who migrated there from African nations and elsewhere. Major migration waves happened in late 1990s and early 2000s when Canada invited skilled professionals. Today, all the provinces of the country have thriving Gujarati groups. However, the majority of the population is concentrated in Toronto.
 
 Jason Kenney, Canada’s then minister for citizenship and immigration, while speaking at VGGIS 2013 had identified Gujarat as its fastest immigration source from India.
 
 Canada has been a regular partner in VGGIS and had brought its largest delegation in 2017. Incidentally, Canadian high commissioner to India at that time was Nadir Patel, a Canadian of Gujarati origin.
 
 Ashish Patel, vice president of Gujarati Cultural Society of Manitoba, an organization set up in 1978, said that they have about 2,000 Gujarati families associated with them. “Majority of the community members are associated with trade, business and profession. It’s an exciting moment for us that the Canadian PM will be visiting landmarks such as Akshardham and Sabarmati Ashram. I believe that the event will put Gujarat strongly on the global map,” he said.
 
 One of the factors that has attracted Gujaratis to Canada is safety and strong social benefits. Virendra Inamdar, a professional based in Brampton, said that he was based in Dubai for several years but when he thought of a better opportunity for his kids to grow up, he chose Canada. “Unlike the US, you will not hear about racial or other attacks on community members here. We have not faced any discrimination in all these years. The government makes sure that your kids learn their mother-tongue, which was a boon for us,” he said. Salil Dalal, Gujarati author and columnist based in Toronto, said that the country boasts of six literary publications and three literary societies. “Gujarati literary and cultural activities are very much active. The cities here host plays and artists on a regular basis,” he said.
 
 
