VIJAYAWADA: Having set a deadline to rid the district of   by end of March, the Krishna district labour department has, under a special drive from February 23, identified 78 minors working in various establishments.

 The owners of these establishments have been sent notices to attend a special court on March 8. Cases have been booked under AP Shops and Establishments Act - 1988, Child Labour Prohibition Act - 1986, and the Minimum Wages Act - 1948. Last year, the district administration had started a similar drive with a deadline of ending child labour by November. However, various issues saw the campaign not fulfilling its target. 
 
 This time, the district administration has adopted a multi-pronged approach to end the menace. Officials are determined to see that no minor under the age of 14 is found working in the district.
 
 The extensive raids, which began on February 23 and will continue till the end of the month, found that broken families, critical health issues of parents, and poverty are the reasons children are forced into labour. 
 
 As part of the eradication mission, officials are collecting details about the socio-economic conditions of the victims. Most children take up work not only because of poverty, but also because of social and familial reasons. D  , assistant commissioner of labour for Krishna district, said: “Broken families, parents’ ill-health, migration, and poverty are the associated causes that force the children into work.”
 
 For migrants in the city, their only priority is to earn daily bread. Conditions are not favourable for encouraging children to take up education, mostly in areas such as Ajit Singh Nagar, canal bunds, and Payakapuram.
 
 “Almost all children identified during the drives are school dropouts, and they could have been saved from becoming labourers had their teachers followed up on their cases,” said Anjaneya Reddy. Unfortunately, most government schoolteachers work in isolation and do not have community connect, he said.
 
 The labour department has invited departments of education, social welfare, and counsellors from NGOs to convince parents to send their children to schools.
 
 
