NOIDA: Residents of sectors 11, 51 and 44 in Noida reeled from irregular electricity supply on Wednesday night and through Thursday afternoon due to cable faults and fire in the transformer in Sector 51, whereas sectors Alpha, Beta, Gama, Delta, ETA and   in   were asked to reduce load usage by discom   limited (NPCL) late Wednesday night due to a fault in a 33kV feeder.

 
 In Sector 51,the   took place on Wednesday night from 10.30 pm to 12.20 am. Later, a transformer placed at the back of Manav Rachna School and corner of Rhythm Play School (D-196) caught fire around 12.25 am. Even as a vigilant security guard used fire extinguisher to avoid a major mishap, the power could not be restored till 1.15 am. However, another blast took place in the transformer at 8.30 am leading to no power in the sector on Thursday morning till noon.
 
 “From last many days, we are facing intermittent power cuts. Last night, there was no power from 10.30 pm to 12.30 pm in our sector. We got information from sector 50 substation that the 11 kV line was damaged. My point is the same line was damaged two days back (Tuesday) and that day also we suffered at least 4 hours of outage. And now today the transformer blast at 12.25 am led to no power till 1.15 am and then again from 8.30 am to 11.30 am. The response time is so slow and long that residents have to face the brunt of it in these hot days,” said Sanjeev Kumar, RWA general secretary sector 51.
 
 When contacted, SDO Rahul Pandey maintained 11 kV cable box was damaged. “We attended to the repair work early morning on Thursday and supply was restored by 11:20 am,” said Pandey.
 
 Akshay Kapoor a resident of sector 44, rued no clarity on information regarding supply resumption. “In sector 44, D block, Stellar Greens Apartments, whenever there is a cut, we call the power house to enquire when it will be restored. We get a standard reply that there is no supply. When we ask who is the person responsible, the staff has no answer,” said Kapoor, who also reiterated his complaint of intermittent power cuts in his industrial unit in sector 11. 
 
 As sources in the power department maintained that a cable box was burnt in sector 11, in Greater Noida, discom NPCL asked sectors Alpha, Beta, Gama, Delta, ETA and Zeta on Wednesday late night to reduce load to enable feeders remaining in service.
 
 “Due to fault in one 33 kV feeder catering to some parts of sectors Alpha, Beta, Gama, Delta, ETA and Zeta, we have shifted load to another 33 kV feeders. However, due to heavy load, these feeders were operating beyond their capacity. Hence, we requested residents to reduce some load so that these feeders remain in service as we managed to restore the faulty line,” said Harnath Gangly, general manager, NPCL.
 
