KOLKATA: A businessman in Baguiati was assaulted and his 12-year-old son was slapped and pushed out of an auto after a tiff with the driver over change.

 
 The incident occurred around 8pm at Baguiati crossing on Saturday evening when   and his son Adarsh were returning home from a mall in Nagerbazar. They reportedly handed a 50-rupee note to the auto driver for a fare of Rs 16.
 
 
 “The moment I handed over the note to the driver, he started abusing me. When I protested, he held me by collar and pushed me. When my son came to my rescue, he slapped him and dashed his head against an iron rod jutting out of the vehicle. He fell on the ground as the driver sped towards the auto stand with the 50-rupee note asking me to collect the change from there,” said Chamaria, a resident of VIP Enclave and a trader in Ezra Street.
 
 
 Chamaria then went to the auto stand — 70 metres from the spot — where other drivers allegedly heckled him before giving him the change. He took his son to a doctor and later lodged a complaint with Baguiati police.
 
 
 Adarsh, a Class VI student of  , underwent a CT scan and was administered painkillers for the injuries on his head. “We were coming home after spending two hours at the game zone of a nearby mall. Even though my father was polite to the driver, he started abusing us,” said Adarsh.
 
 
 After the incident, police went to the auto stand, but the driver was nowhere to be found. “He has fled with the auto. However, we have the registration number and have started a case against him,” said an officer of  .
 
 
 The union later suspended the driver for three days. “Since last year, we have a rule to suspend the driver and the auto from the route for three days whenever we receive any complaint of assault or misbehaviour against him,” said  , the secretary of   route.
 
 
 Other drivers, however, said the accused was not at fault. “The complainant was speaking over phone and got down at Chaulpatty crossing on Baguiati main road where we can’t park our vehicles. Then he handed a 50-rupee note for which the driver didn’t have change. So, he asked the passenger to collect the change from auto stand,” said Biswajit Mondal, who plies auto on this route.
  
  
 
