Suchith Suresan’s voice sits pretty on any music genre. It has an out-and-out contemporary texture that’s smooth enough to hold hands with a song like Pularumo… from Rithu, and enough of sharpness to glide through Kalyanam…, from the upcoming movie titled the same, starring Sravan Mukesh. 

 It’s been 10 years since this Thiruvananthapuram lad debuted as a playback singer through Siddique’s Tamil movie Sadhu Miranda and now, we hear him a lot more in Mollywood too. Suchith tells us about his musical journey.
 
 “I have been living in Chennai and in the past few years, to perform in shows, I have been coming a lot to Kerala,” says Suchith, who has sung Munniloru Swargam in the upcoming movie   and another track in the Manju Warrier project Mohanlal, as well.
 Fast numbers are what he has more under his belt and Suchith says that is not by design. “You can hardly be choosy as a playback singer. Also, I believe that we should not limit ourselves and should sing all kinds of songs if we can. So, singing more of fast numbers is not a conscious choice,” he says. He has also been heard often in Tamil, where he debuted. “I never used to listen to Tamil songs. The first Tamil song I learnt is my debut track as a playback singer in Sadhu Miranda!”
 
 He tells the story of how it happened. “In 2008, I was doing my degree in Madras Christian College (MCC) and had a band too, named Udaan. We used to sing original Hindi songs composed by us, as the albums of those like Lucky Ali, Shaan and Shankar Mahadevan were great inspirations at that time. I also had a demo of my original songs, kept ready. A senior and a good friend of mine at college, Aby Abraham, had to once go to the house of composer Deepak Dev, for a photo shoot of his daughter. He knew I liked Deepak Dev’s music, so took me along as a light boy.”
 
 “After the shoot, when Deepak sir offered us tea, Aby said that I sing and offered the demo too, to which he said, ‘Let’s listen to it now itself.’ He did, at his home studio and said that he liked it and ‘I want to work with you.’ But, I thought he was kidding.”
 
 Three months later, Deepak called Suchith for a jingle, but as he was in train travelling to Thiruvananthapuram, he couldn’t make it. The composer called him a second time, even then he was travelling and couldn’t go. “After two chances, I thought he will never call me again.” But, Deepak did. “He called me the third time for a song in this big Tamil project directed by Siddique, starring Kavya Madhavan and Prasanna and that’s when I really learnt my first ever Tamil song!” His first in Malayalam was Rithu in 2009. But, there was a break in Malayalam after that and he went on to sing more in Tamil and Telugu, with hits like   in Vijay’s Vettaikaaran. “I came back through the 2012 project Aaru Sundarikalude Kadha and from then on, it has been a smooth ride,” Suchith says.
 
 The singer says he has been lucky to get into the industry, despite having no film connections. “I used to win prizes in inter-school competitions and also had an idea about wanting to be a playback singer. But, I had no idea on how to go about it. Luckily, things fell in place at the right time and I am happy the way it has shaped up.” He got married to ayurvedic doctor Nimi Chandrika last year and they have settled down in Chennai.
 
 Suchith’s band Udaan, which started off at college, is also all set to make a comeback this year, after long. “With my fellow MCCians Aaron Mukherjee (guitar) and Sidharth Kumar (keys), I will be performing our original songs on April 1 at the Summer Tide Music Festival in Kozhikode.” Does he too plan to branch off to composing for films later or, like many singers? “Not really. I want to pen and compose songs for my band alone. That’s what makes me happy, at the moment.”
 
 
