JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Medical College's exhibition on life science is an amalgamation of fun and knowledge. It is a must visit place for those who have passion to know more about latest medical equipment and modern day diseases and their treatment.

 At one corner of the exhibition is staff who encourages blood and organ donation, in the next corner there is a staff of virtual dissection table with latest technology. But, the centre of attraction is a scary house 'bhoot bangla', where medical students of anatomy department in a dark room showing skeleton to scare the visitors and also to give them a close view of skeletons for educating them on human body structure.
 
 The 'exhibition of Life Sciences' was inaugurated by Principal and Controller of   and associated hospitals Dr U S Agarwal held in Jaipur on Thursday. The exhibition will be open to public from 11 am to 6 pm daily till February 25 at Newly Constructed Academy Block at   Medical College Jaipur.
 
 Exhibition spokesperson Dr L Harshwardhan said, " With about 35 Stalls different departments of Medical College are exhibiting work and spreading the awareness about Medical Science to general public." He said that chief attraction is the blood bank department stall where visitors are educated for blood donation and it's importance with the help of models and mannequin. Besides, a staff set up   displayed a futuristic Virtual Dissection Table where Virtual Surgery can be done on Feeding Patients Data in Computer before actual Procedure. Another showstopper is department of Anatomy where human body and it's functions are explained on actual Body Parts. It is being appreciated by students & public alike,with about 2000 visitors on 1st Day itself.
 
 The exhibition is organized on completion of 70 years of SMS Medical College. Jai Gupta, a 2013 batch MBBS student said, "Truly worth visit for not just medical students and doctors but more so for non medical students. All departments of medicine, surgery, cardiology, nephrology, rehabilitation, yoga and many others were informative and useful in general life. Not to miss the scary house that's better than those you see normally in commercial places. Moreover, you may also learn basic life support that any person not just doctors must know."
 
 "It's always better to know the disease and it's symptoms to prevent it and treat it at a very early stage. This exhibition provides one such opportunity. Its fun and informative for all age groups," said Dr  , intern medicine department.
 
 "New procedures in medical science with knowledge of human anatomy, physiology and biochemistry one gets while visiting the exhibition. Moreover, it encourages people to donate organs and blood. Here people are learning about health and new diseases. This is useful to people to know how doctors and medical department work," said  , final year MBBS student.
 
 
