KOLKATA: Legal experts in Kolkata have a nuanced view of change of religion. They are against organizing conversion and its public display — like it happened on   three days ago — but not against any individual’s opting for change of religion.

 “The Constitution doesn’t provide for organizing conversion though it guarantees freedom of religion,” said Constitution expert and lawyer Samaraditya Pal. But at the same breath, he doesn’t see anything wrong in the Ali family’s opting for a change in religion if the intention is genuine. “If an organization has lured an individual or coerced him into changing his faith then the complaint has to come from the same person,” Pal said.
 
 But what if Ali changes his faith of his own volition? Senior lawyer   has no problem if an individual does so. “An individual is free to propagate his religious belief. If someone born in a Hindu family wants to go to a masjid or a church, he is free to do so. But he has no right to convert people from other religions to his faith. What the Hindu Samhati has done is absolutely unconstitutional. I would also accuse the Mamata Banerjee administration of giving permission to such public display of conversion,”   said.
 
 Bhattacharya also found a “deliberate RSS plan” in the whole issue. “The rightwing outfits are doing this with a motive. They want to spread fear among other religious communities by organizing such unconstitutional conversion programmes, knowing very well that it would create a clamour. They will then press for bringing anti-conversion laws that some states have enacted,” Bhattacharya said. Such anti-conversion laws are in place in six states — Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, and Arunachal Pradesh. The law in Arunachal Pradesh, however, has not been implemented due to lack of subsidiary rules.
 
 Bengal doesn’t have any such Act because the government doesn’t want to interfere in an individual’s faith. The Sangh Parivar has been insisting on such a law since a long time. Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath had insisted on the law when he was an MP from the   constituency. In response to the furore in Parliament over ghar wapsi programmes in Uttar Pradesh, Yogi had said if the Samajwadi Party-led UP government felt that reconversion programmes were wrong it should bring a legislation like other states to ban conversion.
 
 The Law Commission of India has proposed a procedure for religious conversion. In its 235th report, the Commission has raised questions on whether it should be left to the registration officer to take a decision on the genuineness of the conversion declaration. This grey area has possibly given way to the right-wing forces to dabble with this sensitive issue.
 
