SHIMLA: Even as chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is keen to construct an international airport in Mandi district, Sarkaghat BJP   Col Inder Singh wants that another site in   area of Hamirpur district should also be considered in the national interest for the survey and it should not be rejected outrightly. 

 The central team has already inspected five sites — Ner Dhangu in Balh subdivision, Basadhar and Gogradhar of Padhar subdivision, Moviseri in Gohar subdisivion and Nandgarh in Sadar Mandi. “If the survey finds Mandi sites more suitable than Jahu, we have no objection,” Singh maintained. He further said that while five sites proposed in Mandi district have been surveyed by the central team, there is no harm in considering the Jahu site for the proposed airport. 
 
 “Jahu site should not be rejected outrightly, let the survey team come and inspect it. I am not talking on the basis of regionalism but in national interest as area between Jahu to Dali is plain and without any man-made or natural obstacle,” he said. The MLA said that his only submission is that Jahu site should not be neglected in the national interest.
 
 It is being said that Jahu is centrally located and has the required land available for the proposed airport. It is also being claimed that construction of airport at Jahu will benefit residents of Hamirpur, Bilaspur and Mandi districts. Advocating the construction of the airport, Thakur during a meeting with Union civil aviation minister Suresh Prabhu in New Delhi on April 23 had said that last year 52,26,061 tourists had visited Mandi and surrounding districts, including 1,57,404 foreign tourists. He had also said that due to opening of IIT, medical and engineering colleges and others educational institutions in Mandi district there was an urgent need for the construction of an airport for better connectivity.
 
 Four days back, a central team after completing the pre-feasibility inspection of sites had met Thakur in Chandigarh. Vinod Puniyal, senior officer of the  , told Thakur that the data collected by them would be evaluated in detail in Delhi and within the next 15 days the team will submit its report to the state government.
 
 
