Trichy: Not just a platform to hone your film making skills, short films equally serve as a potential platform to reach out in conveying significant topics. Of late, authorities including the local bodies, social welfare and police departments have been using the support of short film makers to convey hard hitting messages among the public such as the importance of child rights, riding with helmets and dumping waste only in dustbins. 

 With the need for awareness videos increasing to spread message to the present tech-savvy generation, short film makers claimed that short film makers with social responsibility are need of the hour to create an impact in society. 
 
 Arudra Saravanakumar, Trichy based short film maker said, “One of our short films ‘Thiru Gangai’ (Mr Gangai) highlights the importance of treating transgenders without prejudice in public places. In just six months after is was made available online, the short film running for 4 minutes, garnered 1.5 lakh views and still counting.” 
 
 Saravanakumar, enlisted in the Limca Book of Records for casting 93-year-old man in his short film ‘93 not out’, added that he was approached by stakeholders in government departments to shoot films speaking the importance of riding two-wheeler with helmets. 
 
 Trichy Corporation recently roped in Saravanakumar to shoot a short film ‘Mudhalidam Nokki’ (Towards first place) which speaks about the roles and responsibility of citizens in keeping public places free from litter. Trichy Corporation which has managed to make a short film about the importance of segregating waste at source and insisting students to persuade their parents on maintaining cleanliness in public places has planned to screen the short film Mudhalidam Nokki in theatres across the city.
 
 Since short films are considered to be the nucleus of a feature film, valuable thoughts mentioned in short films are often highlighted in the feature films as well. “Since short film is one of the shortest medium to convey a message, its reach on social media platforms will play a catalyst role. Several subjects such as the plight faced by farmers and harms involved in manual scavenging have found place in feature films as well,” Pradep Sakthi, another short film maker adds. 
 
 Short film makers stated that such recognition for their works in taking awareness message to public would be helpful for aspirants attract opportunities in cine field rather than seek out.
 
 
