PUDUCHERRY: Prime Minister  , who is on a two-day visit to Tamil Nadu and the Union territory of Puducherry, will attend the   of the international township of  , around 12 noon on Sunday.

 Modi will reach Puducherry by air from Chennai, at around 10am. A host of dignitaries including Lt governor Kiran Bedi, chief minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues will receive Modi on his arrival. The Prime Minister will proceed to Sri   where he will visit the rooms used by the freedom fighter turned philosopher Sri Aurobindo and his spiritual collaborator Mira Alfassa, revered as the Mother. He will interact with the students of the Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education. He will then proceed to Auroville by 11.30am to participate in the celebrations.
 
 He will return to the town to address a public meeting near the airport around 2pm and leave for Chennai around 4pm. Tagore Government Arts College will serve as the parking lot for vehicles of the people attending the public meeting. The traffic police have directed the general public and tourists not to park their vehicles on the main roads- airport road, ECR and MG Road among others.
 
 Four companies of paramilitary forces, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry policemen numbering more than 1,000 were roped into service to strengthen the security arrangements. Twenty bomb detection squads from Chennai combed the venues to be visted by Modi. Sniffer dogs were pressed into service and a security audit and rehearsal were done on Saturday.
 
 Narayanasamy called on Bedi and held discussions with her on the issues and concerns to be raised with the Prime Minister during the visit. Two of the Congress’s leader cabinet colleagues also met Bedi and held discussions. On Friday, Bedi told reporters after inspecting the security arrangements at the airport that Narayanasamy will outline the financial position of the Union territory during his meeting with the Prime Minister at the airport.
 
 Meanwhile, more than 20 cadres of Periyar Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam were detained when they attempted to picket Sri Aurobindo Ashram with placards against Modi and the Centre’s BJP government for ‘anti-farmer and anti-fishermen policies and for failing to secure a fair share of Cauvery water for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry.’
 
 
