KOLKATA:   (38), the self-styled film producer who sold over 200 cars on an online platform after hiring them, has a chequered past. From acting in serials as a child artiste to being a catering boy, he tried out several professions before deciding that stealing and selling stolen vehicles would be the easiest way to make a fast buck.

 Officers at the Purba Jadavpur police station who caught him last Sunday said Bhattacharya worked in a Bengali serial, “Shaishab”, when he was in Class VI and VII. “He developed some contacts and used them to the hilt. But as a child artiste, his earnings were meagre. So, he joined a catering service for which he was provided with a twowheeler to run errands,” the police said. It was this two-wheeler that apparently drove him into the murky world of theft. According to the police, once when the bike broke down, Bhattacharya made trips to a garage close to his home near  , where the owner offered him “high returns if he could get him good quality stolen cars”. Cops are now looking for the garage owner.
 
 Police said Bhattacharya used the money he earned from his crimes to renew the contacts in Tollywood. He threw lavish parties and even managed to produce two short films, ‘Begun Kodor’, a documentary on a supposedly haunted railway station in Purulia by the same name, and ‘Mumtaz’. Though neither passed the post-production stage, Bhattacharya’s launch parties were well-attended, with politicians and Tollywood’s popular faces being on the guest list. The accused reportedly used photos of the celebrities to entice car owners to rent out their vehicles to him for “high profits”.
 
 The police said the modus operandi was simple. “He hired about 10 cars at a go. Car owner  , whose complaint led to Bhattacharya’s arrest, was asked to send the vehicle to a hospital off EM Bypass. Within hours, he would sell the cars on OLX at half the price. Some cars were rented out at other destinations before being sold,” an officer said. “He has cases at Jadavpur, Salt Lake, Howrah, Barasat, Titagarh and Belur.”
 
