CHENNAI: Commuters heading to the   metro station may soon be able to park their vehicle below Thiru Vi Ka Park, and grab a bite before boarding a train, with metro rail planning to build a 21,000sqft underground commuter facility.

 Metro rail has called for tenders, to design and construct a two-level underground commuter amenities centre, at the station. 
 
 A metro rail official said the centre will come up on either end of the underground station, with each side having a space of about 10,000 square feet. The first basement level will have parking space to accommodate 1,000 two-wheelers and 600 four-wheelers. “This parking level will have entry/ exit points on either sides for commuters and people visiting the Shenoy Nagar park,” said a metro rail official. The second level, which will be connected to the station corridor, may have food stalls and other amenities, to attract both passengers to the station and visitors to the park, said sources.
 
  
  
 
 The company taking up the contract is expected to build the facility within a period of two years. 
 
 They have to build the centre’s basic structure, including retaining and diaphragm walls, entry/exit structures, architectural finishes, sump and pumps, ventilation shafts, electrical mechanical work, plumbing and firefighting, ventilation, air conditioning and landscaping. 
 
 Built under the Thiru Vi Ka Park, Shenoy Nagar metro station was opened on May 14, 2017, as a part of the 8-km underground line running from Nehru Park to Thirumangalam. 
 
 Shenoy Nagar is bigger than the rest of the stations in the currently operational underground line, as it has two crossovers on either side of the station for trains to switch tracks during emergency.
 
 Though metro rail has the designs and plans ready for renovating the 8.8 acre Thiru Vi Ka park, which has been closed for the metro rail construction since 2011, it has put the plans on hold to build the underground facility. Officials earlier said it may take nearly a year to start renovation of the park, before they hand it over to the Chennai corporation. “Building the facility requires excavation of the soil. We cannot renovate the park and again drill through the soil,” an official said.
 
 
