MUMBAI: Charity commissioner   has drafted an ambitious plan to rehabilitate all the one lakh-odd beggars in the state to achieve the goal of a beggar-free  .

 “We have worked out a comprehensive action plan in collaboration with non-governmental organisations, departments of social welfare and women and child welfare and law-enforcing agencies to achieve the goal of a beggar-free state. While we will launch our plan on February 22, in the event we succeed, Maharashtra will be the first state to make itself beggar-free. Of course, it’s a herculean task,”   told TOI.
 
 Divisional deputy commissioner (women and child welfare)   said efforts will be made to rehabilitate all beggars. “We will implement the Mumbai Beggars Prevention Act, 1959 following the lead taken by the charity commissioner,” he said.
 
 
  
 More said it has been proposed to admit beggars in state-run beggars’ homes if they are adults and in state-run children’s homes if they are minors. “We will follow due process of law and take a decision on the advice of the competent authority,” More said.
 
 Once they are in the homes, their personal history will be collected and counselling done by a team of experts in social work. Then a decision will be taken on whether they should be admitted in schools so they get basic education or should be given job-oriented training. In the case of minors, the child welfare committee’s opinion will also be sought. “Every beggar will be individually assessed to know his/her ability. We will take the help of NGOs as well as the skill development department to impart training,” More said.
 
 On the project’s financial aspects, More said besides assist ance from the state, it has been proposed to secure funds under the corporate social responsibility plan. “Several leading agencies have come forward to provide financial assistance, so it should not be difficult for us to draft a rehab plan,” he said.
 
 More said there are 13 beggars’ homes across the state, with a capacity of 3,100. However, they have only 400 inmates. “We will equip our beggars’ homes with better facilities,” he said. A bureaucrat said this was the first time a charity commissioner had taken the lead in rehabilitating beggars. “After a few months of begging, a large number of these people turn to criminal activities. We expect Dige will halt this trend,” he said.
 
