The fears that technology will gobble up employment is a myth that has once again exploded with app-based food delivery services generating big employment opportunities. After the cab apps like Ola and Uber which created means of livelihood for hundreds of young and old across economic strata, it is food delivery services like Zomato and Swiggy which are the new recruiters in the city. Twenty-year-old Mayur Sirsibind began delivering orders for Swiggy two weeks back and is very happy with the job. “I make minimum 8 and maximum 15 food deliveries in a day.” The minimum amount paid for a delivery is Rs30 and maximum can go up to Rs150 depending upon the distance. “I can earn up to Rs20,000 per month doing just this,” says Mayur, who is a second year BCom student. Shailesh Durugkar, a graduate, has been working for Zomato for a couple of months now and is averaging a monthly pay of around Rs25,000. “The job is very simple and well paying. We get instant notification about the restaurant from where we have to pick the food and also know what has been ordered. Our job is to pick up the right order and deliver it to the correct location. The money we make is good for such a job,” he says. Dressed in the Tees provided by their companies and with an insulated bag hanging on their shoulders, these young boys have been criss-crossing the city to reach food to innumerable hungry souls. “This is a good job as I make people happy when I arrive with the order,” says Martin Moses who has a diploma in civil drafting. “On a good day I can earn anywhere up to Rs1,500, there is no stress or load in this job,” he says. Both the service aggregators have split the city into zones like Dharampeth, Sitabuldi, Pratap Nagar and Sadar and have recruited 150 to 200 delivery boys who have driving licenses, in each zone. Ayur Patil, a BCCA student at Hislop College, jumped onto the job as he was seeing so many delivery boys moving around. “I inquired how I could get recruited and landed up with the job. It is a good occupation during summer months as my weekly payout is around Rs3,000,” he says. With food orders seeing a spike during vacation period, the going is good. “Orders are booming as most prefer staying indoors due to heat,” says Manthan Naidu a graduate from Centre Point college. “I am earning my pocket money and need not depend on my parents,” he says. A lot of those who have been struggling to get employment have found a godsend opportunity in this work. 45-year-old Devrao Mathinikar used to work with a private insurance company till the company decided to layover many like him. “I struggled for four years before joining Zomato. Now I am earning more and enjoying the work,” he says. “These two companies have created a lot of employment in the city,” says Hitesh Chenani who used to work with a private finance company and is now preparing to appear for the UPSC exam. “I want to become an IPS officer but till my coaching classes start I am doing this work and making some money,” he says. President of VED Devendra Parikh says that technology is creating innumerable opportunities for employment. “In India where mass employment opportunities are required, service sector alone can fulfil that need. Traditional business are out now and service sector is the future,” he says.