RAJKOT: Five persons were arrested in connection with kidnapping of —   and his wife Urvashi — from near Nanavati Chowk on 150-feet Ring Road on Thursday . 

 Police investigation revealed that the woman’s father, who was opposed to her marrying a person from different caste, was the key conspirator in abduction episode and was aided by his close family friend.
 
 Those arrested include   (23),   (35),   (27), Kalabhai Gamara (34) and Wagha Sindhav (30). Three cars used by them were also seized. Police also booked woman’s father Dhangadh Goswami of Porbandar and his friend Lakhabhai Mewada of Savarkundla, Amreli, for abduction of the couple.
 
 Police had acted after Dhaval’s father lodged complaint with the Gandhigram-2 police station against Dhangadh. Urvashi had married Dhaval about 18 months ago against the wishes of her father. Dhaval and Urvashi were forcibly taken away by five persons, who came in a Maruti Eeco van on Thursday afternoon from near a private hospital at Nanavati Chowk. The couple had come to see a close relative, who was admitted there. 
 
 The arrested accused first thrashed Dhaval and then pushed both of them into the car and fled towards Rameshwar Park. While the couple was being rushed out of the city, Urvashi and Dhaval — who were blindfolded — kept shouting for help. Agitated by the cries, the vehicle driver tried to pour water on Urvashi, but in the process lost control of the vehicle, which skid off the road and hit a tree. 
 
 The accused then called for another car, but that too broke down after a few kilometres. By the time the third van arrived, the accused got the information that police had dispatched teams to trace them. So they dropped Dhaval and Urvashi at Madhapar crossroads outside the city and escaped. They were later traced and arrested by Rajkot city police.
 
 Questioning of the accused revealed that Urvashi’s father Dhangadh had promised the accused Rs 5 lakh to kidnap the couple as they had married against family wishes.
 
 
