KOCHI: After it made its mark on the international map of art and culture riding on the success of the  , the city is all set to get the privilege of hosting the annual international book fair and literary fest organized by the government of Kerala, perhaps on a permanent basis. 

 Minister for tourism Kadakampally Surendran on Sunday said the government would seriously consider making Kochi the permanent venue for the event based on the reception the first edition of the fair garners in the city. 
 
 "If the   receives a reception on the lines of the Biennale, then Kochi will become the festival's permanent venue. The support of the Kochiites is what matters. If their response is positive, then the venue would be made permanent. Otherwise, we will have to move it other locations," said the minister at a discussion on the event.
 
 The aim of the book fair and the literary fest which will run parallel, is to establish a season of literary 'pilgrimage' in the state.
 
 The book fair will be held at the Marine Drive from March 1 to 11, 2018 while the international festival of books and authors would be held from March 6-10 at the Bolgatty Palace. 
 
 The event is organized by the department of cooperation, in association with the  . 
 
 Though the event in 2018 would be held in March, the government is planning to organize the festival in the coming years as a continuation to the Jaipur and Kolkata literature festivals in January or February. It is looking at bringing in more writers and publishers to the event by scheduling it in such a way that it will not clash with other festivals. The dates are also being changed in the coming years to avoid the festival coinciding with time of exams or vacations. Following discussions with editors, the minister said the government will look into arranging other associate events to improve the uniqueness of the festival. 
 
 The coming years of the festival will see travel packages for delegates to the hometowns of internationally acclaimed Malayalam writers. Plans are on to connect nearby townships like Thakashi and Vaikom to Kochi as part of the festival. 
 
 The fest will have discussions on marginalized communities along with discussions on literature, culture, history, technical education and film.
 
 "The festival aims at establishing an idea that the state is a place where thoughts can be freely expressed. The city is all set to witness a literary pilgrimage as people from all walks of life are expected to flock to the city in the first week of March," said Surendran.
 
 Publishers from all over the world will have their own stalls at the book fair set to be held in a fully air-conditioned tent. A novel initiative as part of the fair include the sale of coupons worth Rs 250 intended to be gifted to children. A coupons can be gifted to children who can use them to buy books at the fair. Details can be found on Krithibookfest.com, the website of the festival.
 
 
