  : Amid the popular campaign spearheaded by the   on   (JCILPS) for a law to foil the   in the state, the N Biren Singh government has constituted a state level committee to draft a Bill for the protection of Manipuri people. The panel was constituted on May 23. 

 Government spokesperson and works minister Thongam Biswajit on Thursday said the committee, which he heads as convenor, has legislators from different communities and parties. Speaking to the media at his official residence here, he said, the committee will meet soon and try to introduce the draft Bill in the coming session of the assembly. 
 
 Other members of the committee include ministers Letpao Haokip, Losii Dikho and V Hangkhalian, chairman of hill areas committee   T Thangzalam Haokip, former CM Radha Binod Koijam, legislators P Sharatchandra, L Susindro, Khashim Vashum, Awangbow Newmai, TN Haokip and Gaikhangam and advocate general N Kumarjit Singh. Manipur law secretary Nungshitombi Athokpam and special secretary (home), Kh Raghumani Singh, will assist the committee.
 
 Biswajit said there is no restriction against any citizen from entering the state, however, considering the prevailing situation of illegal migrants, any individual visiting Manipur would be requested to carry his authentic identity card. He also appealed to civil society members and individuals not to take the law into their hands when dealing with outsiders. "Any citizen can visit any place in the country and debarring or denying him entry would be unconstitutional," he observed.
 
 Like other border states, Manipur, too, has been affected by the Rohingya influx, he said and added that government machineries have been closely monitoring the situation to check the illegal entry of migrants. Apart from arresting the Rohingya people for entering the state illegally, the police have also pulled up several non-locals with fake Aadhaar cards.
 
 Observing that the state witnessed some incidents which could disrupt communal harmony, Biswajit said people should refrain from uploading or sharing provocative videos as they could foment tension. He also urged the people to continue supporting and cooperating with government attempts to maintain peace and harmony in the state.
 
 
