Kanyakumari: A Tamil Nadu government’s order issued on January 12 on guidelines to declare the 199 fishermen who went missing since cyclone Ockhi as dead has given a sense of relief for the grieving families, as they would be able to get the ex-gratia assistance of Rs 20 lakh from the government to support the education of the children and meet other important expenses. But there is no respite for families of eight fishermen from the district who were killed in cyclone Phyan that struck on November 2, 2009, while they were fishing about 50 nautical miles off Goa.

 The dead included seven fishermen S Dhasan, 52, and I Jhon Cleetus, 30 of Poothurai, and S Rajan, 27, D Romance, 24, A Aneesh, 23, P Shalin, 23 and G Jimmy, 22 of Thoothoor, who were sailing in one boat. Their fellow fishermen S Gipson, 26 Vallavilai, P Alwarees, 27, and J Shajan, 23 of Thoothoor, who survived are witness that the seven others are dead. But their bodies could not be traced.
 
 According to government records they are still missing as their bodies have not been traced. Section 108 of The Indian Evidences Act states that a missing person could be declared dead if he or she has not been heard of for over seven years.
 
 But, it is more than eight years and their families are struggling to get death certificates for the missing fishermen and compensation from the government. Struggling families of Phyan victims have once again appealed to the government seeking death certificates for their kin and compensation one a par with the Rs 20 lakh compensation announced for families of fishermen who went missing in cyclone Ockhi.
 
 Kanyakumari collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan said that the special teams formed in accordance with the GO to gather details pertaining to the missing fishermen in cyclone Ockhi have already begun. “But there is no mention in the GO about those who went missing in cyclone Phyan. We have forwarded details on those victims and their petition to the state government. The government will act on it at the earliest,” he told TOI.
 
 
