BHUBANESWAR: After two days of belligerence that rocked the  , Saturday was relatively calm even as questions swirled about  's future course of action against party MP and senior leader Baijayant Panda. 

 As the dust settled on Baijayant's fresh allegation against one of the chief minister's trusted IAS officers meddling in party politics, observers felt both leaders would be inclined to play the waiting game.
 
 While Naveen seems to be in no hurry to take any action against the Kendrapada MP, the latter looks unlikely to quit the party despite his differences with the regional satrap.
 
 Some senior BJD leaders felt taking action against Baijayant, a four-time MP, would be falling into his trap. They observed that all Baijayant wants is to be thrown out of the party so that he could don the saffron robe. Apparently, this view is said to be endorsed by Naveen as well. "Baijayant in a way has dared Naveen to take action against him. If Naveen expels him, he will play the victim card. He will try to portray that he paid the price for raising the issue of an officer dominating the party. In this way he will also not lose his membership in Lok Sabha," said a BJD MP, requesting anonymity.
 
 In such a scenario, Baijayant could turn more vocal against the BJD and could tell voters in his constituency how Naveen preferred a 'corrupt' officer to him. 
 
 A section of leaders in the BJD, meanwhile, have been advocating action against the industrialist-politician for questioning Naveen, something no one has done before, at least not while being a part of the BJD. Even Naveen's adviser-turned-rival Pyarimohan Mohapatra had not directly questioned any of his decisions publicly till his bitter split following an alleged failed coup to oust Naveen in 2012.
 
 Those seeking action against Baijayant also point out how the Kendrapada MP dragged  's name to contradict Naveen on bureaucratic high-handedness. They felt emboldened by the fact that the chief minster didn't completely rule out any action against his party colleague.
 
 Though speculations are rife about Baijayant's growing fondness for the BJP, the man himself has refuted such claims. "I am speaking out not because, as some vested interests are trying to portray, I have some ulterior motive. But because I want the best for my party and for Odisha," he wrote on Facebook on Friday night.
 
 Even as the BJD tries to assess the fallout of the latest controversy to hit the party, the BJP is trying to gain political mileage out of the situation. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, Union minister and state BJP leader   said: "The infighting within the ruling party here is unfolding gradually. People will reject such a government."
 
 He went on to add: "The Naveen government is only passing time in power as per constitutional provisions because it got the mandate. However, people have already decided to throw it out." 
 
 Revenue minister S N Patro downplayed the differences in the party. "The BJP is more divided. They have 10 factions," Patro said.
 
 
