Nagpur: With road development at its peak in the state, there is spurt in death of wild animals including tigers and leopards due to speeding vehicles. The threat of poaching is always there with electrocution and road kills turning to be the biggest. TOI spoke with Dehradun-based   Institute of India (WII) scientist Dr   on the burning issue. 

 Habib is a recipient of the prestigious   MAB Young Scientist Award for developing monitoring program involving local communities. His work is cited in several contemporary conservation publications. Habib has been involved in field research on carnivores in India since 2001. His main interest lies in understanding conservation challenges faced by large carnivores in changing scenario.
 
 Excerpts from an interview...
 
 Q. Of late, there is spurt in wild animal kills on roads?
 
 A. There is no authentic and organized data available to actually confirm whether there is an increase or decrease in road kills. However, in the recent past, Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT) and Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) developed apps to involve citizens for recording road kills. The initial data from these initiatives is alarming. According to WCT, it recorded 800 animal kills while the RoadWatch website of WTI shows 873 road kills (343 reptiles, 203 mammals, 113 birds, 126 amphibians, & 88 unidentified) since the app was launched earlier this year. It is possible that the extent of road kills was similar, greater or lesser in the past. It is only due to spatial coverage of data collection through these apps and due to the advent of social media that more and more incidents of road kills are coming to the fore. I agree the situation is indeed grave and alarming.
 
 Q. Do you have figures to quantify how many animals died in road and railway kills?
 
 A. There is no single unified database available for this. All records lie scattered in forest range offices across the country. Further, the data collected through apps get divided since these are two different ones launched by separate NGOs. Therefore, anyone seeking to compile a nationwide inventory of roadkill data would have to consolidate data from different sources. It would be good if a unified platform for data collection is launched in which citizen scientists and forest departments could feed data. Digitizing nationwide range-level roadkill/train mortality data collected over the years by the state forest departments would also help decipher trends in these incidents over the years. I feel when conservation is a common goal, stakeholders cannot afford diluted, deflected and competing efforts.
 
 Q. WII had done studies on   measures? How has it helped?
 
 A. WII has proposed mitigation measures to address road-induced impacts on wildlife in the country. Road ecology as a subject in India is emerging as a challenging discipline. Till date, WII has proposed mitigation measures on NH-7 & NH-6 in Central India. The mitigation measures on NH7 (Pench-Maharashtra section) are under construction and may be ready in a year or so. We believe that these measures are best in the world. We are of the opinion that all the road upgradation projects or new proposals should involve services of road ecologists at DPR stage so that all these issues are sorted out before planning/upgradation of roads.
 
 Q. But mitigation was possible as NGOs knocked court doors?
 
 A. Yes, that is true but now that wildlife mitigation is in place the issue is resolved.
 
 Q. With wildlife numbers in Central Indian landscape very high, how can we save the situation?
 
 A. Central India today is home to about 688 tigers in 19 tiger reserves according to All India Tiger Monitoring Report 2015. With increasing protection, wildlife in these PAs is increasing in numbers and coming out of PAs, thus increasing probability of wild animals coming across human infrastructure such as roads. The connectivity between the reserves is challenged because of linear projects like roads, railway and power lines, urban sprawl and mining. In such a fragmented landscape, it is imminent that tigers, leopards and other wildlife would encounter roads more often as they are known to traverse large distances once they disperse to establish territories. It is the mortality of young, fit, dispersing individuals that takes a toll on a population. Wildlife-vehicle encounters are only bound to increase. To maintain integrity of Central Indian Landscape ( ), and avoid human and wildlife mortalities and other losses, it is vital to have mitigation measures at specific places for wildlife movement across the landscape.
 
 Q. Tadoba, Bor, Melghat, Nagzira-Navegaon are being cut off from all sides due to road widening? Any immediate solutions?
 
 A. No. A lot of people propose temporary solutions such as rumble strips, speed breakers etc. They reduce the speed of the vehicle thereby increasing time spent by the vehicle on the road and creating a barrier effect for the animals. All such areas where connectivity is expected to get compromised must be prioritized for mitigation measures. The only short-term measure is to reduce traffic volume during peak hour of animal activity.
 
 Q. PWD,   say roads are widened as per right of way?
 
 A. Land is a much coveted resource for development and conservation, and diversion of forest land for a right-of-way (ROW) is a contentious issue. The ROW is primarily meant to be used by the infrastructure agency for upkeep and maintenance. ROW should be for ecological recognition, which is not being done. Although it may be argued that no more forest land should be diverted for road-building, a sufficient ROW is vital for roads expected to be crossed by animals. This gives the animals an adequate view of the on-road traffic and enables careful decision-making. Therefore, considering these implications for behaviour of animals attempting to cross the roads, provisions for adequate road verges should be ensured, given other mitigation measures and crossing structures are in place.
 
 Q. How can drivers avoid accidents with wildlife? What if a crash is inevitable?
 
 A. When peak traffic hours overlap with peak activity times of animals, the chances of animal mortality increases manifold. During these hours, speed limits on road stretches prone to roadkill should be strictly imposed and monitored. Such speed reduction would help increase the reaction time of a driver who can then apply brakes as and when required. However, such measures are futile in high traffic segments where such speed restrictions would only increase the barrier effect. In such areas, the number of vehicles also needs to be restricted.
 
 Q. Who is responsible for the mess? Forest departments or user agencies?
 
 A. Putting the blame on the department or the user agency seems to be out of context. As a society, everybody is at fault. All metropolises and developing towns have good education and job opportunities within their reach, leading to more purchasing power. According to a recent study by the Cornell University and University of Texas in 3 metro cities of India, 53% of households owned/leased both 2-wheelers and 4-wheelers (respondents with an annual average household income of over Rs10 lakh). The same study also predicted that the per capita vehicle ownership in these metro cities would almost triple in the next 15 years. Road and infrastructure development are a result of demand for development, and driven by socio-economic imperatives. However, ensuring that critical corridors and habitats are protected from destruction and fragmentation is in our hands, and we need to make certain that road upgradation and development includes stakeholders from the conservation community for the appropriate inclusion of biodiversity concerns into these plans. This would require a healthy collaboration between the Central government ministries, user agencies, forest departments, conservation scientists, NGOs and the media, instead of playing the blame game. For user agency, investment for safeguarding corridors should be like safeguarding own future. 
 
 Q. With population and vehicle numbers going up, what needs to be done? 
 
 A. For long-term conservation in the CIL, it is imperative that vital corridors remain intact. Only long-term solution to this problem is permanent mitigation measures. As of now, there is no other technology suitable for Indian conditions that could help avoid animal-vehicle collisions.
 
 Q. Should road agencies have rescue units for animals?
 
 A. That is a good suggestion. The user agency in collaboration with the forest department can think of road patrols and should have joint rescue centres in areas which are critical corridor areas prone to road kills.
 
 Q. Roads are being widened in areas where WII itself has authenticated corridors?
 
 A: We are of the opinion that if the existing roads are kept as such, it is more detrimental and damaging to wildlife. Road upgradation should be considered as an opportunity to mitigate or reverse the existing problem. The corridors identified by WII in Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL) are critical for long-term conservation. Proper mitigation measures should be put in place in areas identified as corridors.
 
 
