THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An attempt by the opposition, especially   (M), to embarrass the government by citing the plight of farmers in the state misfired for want of solid data about farmer suicides in the state. 

 KC (M) leader KM Mani-who sought an adjournment motion On Wednesday- cited the data published by BJP's mouthpiece (which was baseless) in the assembly and alleged that the state had recorded the highest number of farmer suicides last year. The BJP mouthpiece had claimed that 122 farmers had committed suicide in Thrissur district alone last year, a totally wrong statistic.
 
 Agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar then countered that such a senior leader should not be relying on such untrue reports. He said that farmers' debt relief commission, which has been functioning in the state, has become a role model for states like Karnataka and Maharashtra where farmer suicides are high.
 
 The minister said that for the first time Centre had taken a positive step towards state's repeated requests for providing relief to rubber farmers by deciding to set up a 12-member high-level task force chaired by Kerala's chief secretary as chairman and Tripura's chief secretary as co-chairman. The committee will come up with short-term and long-term strategies on rubber by taking into consideration the WTO agreements.
 
 While countering the government over farmers' issues,   also extended an olive branch to the CPM, when he referred to the long march undertaken by farmers in Maharashtra that became a success. "Let me commend CPM for giving leadership to a successful long march. We have no political hatred towards CPM. But, what it did in Maharashtra should be emulated here," he said. Though not part of the same front, the opposition (UDF) supported the issue raised by KC (M). Opposition leader   said the government was only good at 'lip service'. He questioned the government's claims about providing relief to farmers through debt relief commission and challenged the government to waive off all their debts like other states. IUML's MK Muneer said that the government should at least conduct a short march to save the debt-ridden farmers in Kerala. The opposition and KC(M) walked out after speaker   denied Mani's leave for adjournment motion based on the explanation given by the government.
 
 BJP's O Rajagopal also exited the assembly saying that the government was resorting to foolish arguments that all issues faced by farmers happened due to  's rule and growth of RSS.
 
 
