NEW DELHI. External Affairs Minister (EAM)   on Wednesday met Saudi Arabia king Salman bin Abdulaziz and thanked the kingdom for increasing the Haj quota for India in 2017, reported ANI.

  “Many of my Muslim brothers & sisters from India visit Saudi Arabia every year for Haj and Umrah pilgrimage. I thank Your Majesty for increasing the Haj quota for India last year and for the special arrangements and care give to the pilgrim,” said EAM Swaraj. 
 
  Earlier King Salman inaugurated prestigious National Heritage and Culture Festival 'Janadriyah' in the presence of Swaraj.
 
  Swaraj then received Salman at the Indian pavilion, themed "Saudi ka Dost Bharat” and expressed gratitude to Saudi Arabia for according the 'Guest of Honour' status to India for the first time at the Janadriyah festival. 
 
  Speaking at the inaugural function Swaraj recalled the landmark visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Saudi Arabia in April 2016 which gave strong impetus to the bilateral relationship.
 
  “Linkages between us date back to several millennia & have been nurtured by socio-economic interactions & people to people contacts. Over 3 million Indians reside in Saudi Arabia and contribute to the development of economic prosperity of the kingdom,” Swaraj said in her address.
 
  Swaraj is on a 3-day tour to Riyadh to discuss strategic partnership with her counterpart Saudi Foreign Minister Adel Jubeir there.
 
  Both Swaraj and Jubeir discussed wide range of bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest. She re-affirmed India’s support to peace in the region and called for collective efforts in fighting the menace of terrorism.
 
  The Indian pavilion at the festival showcased the traditional and modern aspects of India.
 
  “The section on ‘Tradition’ has on display, traditional strengths like Yoga, Ayurveda, textiles and tourism while the ‘Modern Section’ coined as ‘Opportunities in India’ showcases the digital revolution, achievements in Space and defence technologies as well as Flagship programmes like ‘Digital India’, Make in India’ etc,” read the press release from Ministry of External Affairs.
 
 
 
 
