NEW DELHI:   will develop   and   facilities by  . Detailing the plan to decongest the city, mayor   said the areas where the parking lots would come up were selected keeping in mind the footfall and congestion. 

 In a few areas, the multiplicity of authorities would mean the transfer of sites to the corporation by agencies such as DMRC and DUSIB. Currently, there are six multilevel parking lots under the jurisdiction of north corporation but most of these are in a bad shape. The multilevel facility at Asaf Ali Road, for example, has become a dumping ground of sorts for abandoned vehicles. The parking lot at Model Town, on the other hand, is underutilised. 
 
 Gupta said the idea was to decongest areas around markets and metro stations. “North corporation has undertaken the project to develop 58 facilities, including 29 surface parking sites, 13 multilevel and 16 stack parking facilities,” Gupta said. 
 
 Commissioner Madhup Vyas said the north civic body had 95 functional surface parking sites with a capacity of 24,600 vehicles. “By September, we will add 29 new surface parking sites with a total capacity of 6,260 vehicles. We have six functional multilevel parking lots to cater to 12,021 vehicles. We will add 13 more multilevel parking facilities, out of which two will be developed by June 2020, three by October 2020, seven by December 2020 and one by June 2021,” Vyas said. 
 
 Vyas said work at Idgah Road would be taken up after the corporation got clearance from DDA. 
 
 Proposed stack parking sites: LNJP hospital, Yamuna Bazar, Idgah Road, Jama Masjid, Pratap Nagar metro station, Bagh Diwar market Fatehpuri, Mukherjee Nagar, Nani Wala Bagh, Sector 18 Rohini, Shalimar Bagh, Karam Pura, Nigam Both Ghat, Naraina Village
 
 Proposed multi-level parking sites: Shiva Market Pitampura, Gandhi Maidan, Sant Nagar Rani Bagh, Idgah Road, Shastri Park, Rajender Nagar, Shalimar Bagh, Madipur Metro station, Udyog Metro station, Punjabi Bagh metro station, Nangloi metro station, Mundka metro station
 
 
