PATNA: Disgruntled former state   president   on Sunday created a stir in the state’s political circles after he joined a ‘Dahi-Chura' feast hosted by ruling JD(U)’s state president  , saying, “There is neither a ‘full stop’ nor a ‘beginning’ in politics.” 

 Choudhary attending JD(U) leader’s feast assumes more political significance because he and nearly a dozen other Congress MLAs of his camp had on Saturday skipped a crucial meeting convened by the   (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh to discuss “state’s political scenario” in the wake of incarceration of RJD chief Lalu Prasad in one of the cases of fodder scam.
 
 Of total 27 Congress MLAs, only 10 turned at Saturday meet which was convened mainly to take the party legislators’ views on the RJD’s invitation to launch a joint agitation against alleged failures of the Nitish Kumar government.
 
 On Sunday, a separate ‘Dahi-Chura’ feast was also organised at the residence of Congress senior and former minister Awadesh Kumar Singh. Most of the Congress leaders including CLP leader Sadanand Singh, former minister Madan Mohan Jha and some of the MLAs attended the feast at Awadesh residence and they avoided going to Bashishtha residence, which was just a few meter far from Awadesh’s residence.
 
 But Choudhary — who was accompanied by party MLC Dilip Choudhary and Buxar MLA Munna Tiwari — after attending feast at Awadesh’s residence, not only visited the JD(U) state president’s residence but also joined in the ruling party leader’s feast.
 
 Defending his decision to attend the feast at the JD(U) leader’s house, Choudhary told reporters at Bashishtha’s residence, “I have been close to Dada ( ) for long and I have come here because of our personal relationship. A political colour ought not to be given to everything”.
 
 In reply to a query on future political scenario in Bihar, Choudhary philosophically remarked “There is neither a ‘full stop’ nor a ‘beginning’ in politics”, triggering fresh speculations about his next move.
 
 But it was same Choudhary who last year had expressed displeasure after Bashishtha Singh had extended invitation to BJP which was then in opposition. Choudhary had in January 2017 said the JD(U) could explain better as to why it has invited BJP in a political feast after no such invitation for the last three years since 2014. “Had it been some family functions like marriage at the home of JD(U) leaders, it could be understood. But inviting BJP in a political feast is something only JD(U) can explain,” Choudhary said last year. 
 
 Being education minister in the grand alliance government and state Congress president, Choudhary had last year not attended similar ‘Dahi-chura’ feast at the Bashishtha residence despite a proper invitation from the JD(U) leader. 
 
