
 
  
 
 Crunchy lotus root has been part of Indian cuisine — you have bhee (lotus stem) tikkis, pakoras and curries. Also called kamal kakdi, it has vitamin C, fiber, iron and zinc.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 With its varied repertoire, bold flavours and delicious tastes, Middle Eastern fare is set to go mainstream in the coming year. The world is raring to look beyond hummus and pita. So, expect to see more of shakshuka and other dishes that have traditional spices, such as za’atar and harissa. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 First, you had noodle-based   bowls that were huge. Then last year, it was the turn of  . And in 2018, the focus will be on grain bowls. These artfully composed bowls 
 contain with a grain (quinoa, barley), vegetables, meat or chicken and a light dressing. They are convenient to carry and look good, too. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Like it hot? Timut pepper (brother of the Sichan pepper) from Nepal, is set to scorch your taste buds a little. With a spicy, grapefruity taste, this condiment is said to leave a tingly feeling on the palate. It can be turned into a powder for a rub and pairs with seafood, meats and chocolate desserts. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  lovers are sure to be pleased with this. Adding pretty little flowers to food is big. But not just any kind, we’re talking of edible flowers such as rose, lavender and hibiscus. Add them to bakes, desserts,  , your morning smoothie and more. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 ‘As rich as your dinner plate’ should be the new simile this year. Sprinkling edible gold dust on dinner and desserts is going to take your gastronomic experience way up there. Think chocolate balls, cupcakes and mousse, decorated with golden sparkle dust. And this is just part of the fad. It all started with a glitter cappuccino by an Australian coffee chain in 2017, and now the trend is only set to grow bigger this year. However, beware of decorative, non-edible glitter that can be harmful. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Out go  ,   juices and infused waters. In the coming year, ‘souping’ will be the new juicing. This is about having only pureed soups which give you a system cleanse and add nutrients to the body. Thick or clear, these soups are said to aid weight loss and keep one fuller longer. Try soup detoxes with carrot, pumpkin, kale, spinach and tomato. However, health experts advise against sticking to a only-soup diet. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 You heard of super foods, now meet super coffee! The regular morning cuppa joe is set to give you a jolt with additional healthy ingredients. Mushroom coffee is said to give you a pick-me-up without making you feel jittery. Other variations — like Bulletproof coffee (coffee combined with butter) and ‘nitro-cold brew’, a creamy, nitrogen-infused coffee that’s less acidic than the original — will also continue to be big. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Tea is zooming ahead of being just a solution for insomniacs or your breakfast habit. 2018 is going to be the year when tea gets a notch-up over coffee. Get ready to welcome the rise of tea-based drinks, more evolved flavours, healthy infusions and so much more. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Vegan desserts minus any dairy will dominate menus. Try vegan banana chocolate pudding, sweet potato pie, chocolate cookies made sans egg and milk and vegan lime cheesecake, made with non-dairy cream cheese. Like ice cream? Have a sorbet made with just fruit, sugar and corn starch or syrup. 
 
 
