LUDHIANA: Going by the rate at which couples are falling out, it seems getting married is easier than staying married. Chatting with people online, getting more likes than the spouse, sexual preferences, addiction and even deviations are some of the reasons cited by warring couples ready to call it quits with each other. Those dealing with matrimonial disputes warn against factors both real and virtual - that can rip a union apart. 

 Take the case of a businessman from Civil Lines, who was riled at his wife’s popularity on  . The attention she got - in the form of the universal thumbs sign for “like” and approving comments on posts - made him doubt the seven-year-old marriage and walk away from his wife, mother of his 4-year-old son. In the end, he filed for divorce. 
 
 Sexual incompatibility also spells the end of many marriages, now that people are ready to talk about subjects that were previously considered taboo. A few months ago, a banking professional from the city filed for divorce after being “fed” up by his wife’s demand for unnatural sex. In the application he filed for divorce, he listed this reason as the primary reason for his decision.
 
 In another case, a city-based woman filed for divorce from her marketing professional husband after a marriage of one year because he was sexually hyperactive. In her divorce application, she said she was tired of the fantasies of her husband and was giving up. 
 
 Lawyers dealing with such cases say cases of couples ending marriage over such reasons has increased. 
 
 “Till about three years ago, we would get one or two such cases in a month, wherein couples cited unique reasons for divorce. Now, we receive seven to eight such cases in a month. Reasons are unusual sexual activity of a partner or addiction to social media, online chatting with multiple partners, among others”, said  , senior advocate at district courts in Ludhiana.
 
 Counsellors of the Crime against women and child abuse cell of the police say such factors often trigger bitter fights that end in divorce. 
 
 Shashi Khullar, founder member of “crime against women and child abuse” cell and one of the 12 counsellors who settle marital discords, said, “Of around 200 to 220 cases of marital discords we do counselling for per month, about 70 cases have such factors at the root. Other reasons cited include sexual abuse, forgetting anniversary, not bringing home anything from foreign tours, not cooking favourite food, having a fat friend list on Facebook and chatting with a friend’s wife or husband. In more than half the cases of marital discord, seemingly trivial reasons snowball into major problems. In about one third of such cases, things reach the level of divorce.” 
 
 According to counsellors, in most cases, they advise couples to shed the ego and focus on strengthening the relationship. They said they urge couples to accommodate each other’s wishes.
 
 Unique evidence:
 
 A few years ago, a businessman from Civil Lines, who filed a case against his wife for infidelity in the women’s cell police station, came up records showing his wife chatting with more than five persons simultaneously on Facebook and Whatsapp. According to him, this was evidence. He received a shock when his wife showed chat records of his online conversations with seven women. 
 
 In another case, a woman of BRS Nagar lodged a complaint against her husband with the women’s cell after she saw romantic messages from women in her husband’s Facebook friend list. Cornered, the husband also procured chat records of his wife on her Whatsapp to be used as evidence against her.
 
 Counsellors are not surprised. They have seen many marriages falling apart because of Facebook and Whatsapp misuse. 
 
 Pardeep Dhall, counsellor, women’s cell police station, said, “Such cases have risen sharply with the use of Facebook and Whatsapp becoming a way of life. Cases like these comprise around 30% to 35% cases of the total complaints received by the Women’s Cell. In such cases, we advise the couple to abstain from using social networking sites or use them only to share useful messages”.
 
 Counselors say that having a particular person in the friends list, liking picture or status message of someone and sharing the status messages of a FB friend also trigger such disputes. Even giving the thumbs up sign to messages of a group member on a Whatsapp group in which a couple are members also lead to such fights, they said.
 
 “Not maintaining hygiene, putting on a lot of weight after marriage and not taking care of beauty after marriage have also been cited as reasons for matrimonial disputes,” said the counsellor.
 
 Mounting trouble
 
 As per the data of the crime against women and child abuse cell of the Ludhiana police, there has been a sharp rise in matrimonial dispute complaints in Ludhiana. Data suggests that from 1,427 applications of matrimonial disputes in 2003, the number reached 5,363 in the first eleven months of 2017.
 
 
 
