BHOPAL: Broken locks, smashed doors and window glass— it was not a scene of a site where members of rival political outfits were engaged in a pitched battle. Make no mistatkes — it was a scene straight from   hostel on Barkatullah University campus on Friday. 

 Students of hostel blamed police for it, alleging they were behind it and beat them after a complaint was filed by   hostel inmates. Police, however, refuted charge of excesses, terming it as baseless.
 
 Hostels of Barkatullah University turned into a battle ground between Bagsewania police and hostel inmates over a clash between two groups of students. Later, police registered an FIR on the complaints of both groups. Some of the students who suffered severe injuries are being treated at private hospital.
 
 There are three hostels on the   campus. These are Sanjay Gandhi, Munshi Premchand and Jawahar. Second year students of   (BUIT) are living in both Jawahar and Premchand hostels. Around 4 pm, trouble erupted when students of Jawahar and Premchand hostels traded blows. 
 
 In the clash, few students of Premchand hostel suffered injuries. When they approached Bagsewania police station, cops reached the Jawahar hostel and thrashed them . “I am a first year student in BUIT. I was doing a project on my laptop. Suddenly, a couple of policemen entered my room forcibly and started beating me. They kept on beating me until I fell on the ground,” alleged a hostel inmate.
 
 Students recorded few incidents on their mobile sets. From videos grabs the TOI is in possession of it could be clearly seen policemen were beating students inside the hostel. In another video, a student was trying to hide behind a water tank to evade a policeman. 
 
 “It was a horrible situation. I am neither a terrorist nor a history-sheeter. What was wrong with police. They entered the hostel and started beating us without giving any opportunity to speak or explain anything,” said another student.
 
 Students alleged police excesses lasted for almost an hour and stopped only when all students came out of the hostel. Jawahar hostel warden Sunil Kumar Snehi also condemned police action. “This is not the way police should react. They should have demonstrated restraint,” said Snehi. 
 
 When contacted, Bagsewania police said students’ claims are baseless. “Policemen were there for controlling law and order situation. Students are tryng to hide their own acts and making baseless allegations against police,” said SI Kailash Sahu. 
 
 DIG Bhopal Santosh Singh said he wold look into the matter. “I will look into the matter. As of now, I have no information in this regard,” said Singh. Police filed case against seven students of Jawahar hostel under sections 147, 149, 323, 506 of the IPC. Counter case from Jawahar hostel was also filed in night.
 
 
