AHMEDABAD: Patidar quota agitation leader   and Dalit leader and the independent MLA from Vadgam,  , who put up a united front against the BJP and stood by each other in testing times, will now be on opposite sides, with their own communities.

 Eyebrows were raised when Hardik Patel tweeted: “Some goons of Gitapura village in Ahmedabad have encroached on village land which has been opposed by the villagers (Patels) who also sat on fast outside the office of Mamlatdar in Detroj. Anti-social elements should not be linked with any community”.
 
 This tweet raised the hackles of Dalits, as five Dalit families were fasting in protest at not getting possession of residential plots. Against this, Patels from the village also sat on a fast, demanding that the Dalits not be given plots as they belong to the village panchayat. Hardik met the protesting Patidars on January 24, one day after Mevani met the dalits, who were on an indefinite fast.
 
 While the land issue has been resolved, with the administration allowing the dalit families to convert their farmland to non-agricultural land to build homes, the tweet has left Dalit community members furious. They even prepared to present a memorandum against Hardik to district collectors in the state, for his ‘offensive comments’.
 
 Mevani and Hardik’s friendship peaked ahead of the Gujarat polls, when the Patidar leader congratulated his decision to contest. Mevani also defended Hardik during the sex-tape onslaught and threatened to launch a state-wide stir if the Patidar leader was arrested.
 
 Kanu Sumra, a dalit activist who has been active on the land issue, said, “Five Dalit families had gone on an indefinite fast, which lasted around 12 days, in front of the mamlatdar’s office in Detroj. Instead of addressing the issue of the Dalits, Hardik sat with his community members (Patels). The plot, measuring about half a vigha, was promised to Dalits in 2013, when they were forced to leave the neighbouring Bhagapura village. He also called dalits ‘anti-social elements’. When threatened with a protest against him, he apologized for using such words for Dalits.”
 
 The issue was finally resolved as the Dalits agreed to convert one vigha of agricultural land into non-agriculture land, with the government promising that it would bear the cost of building the houses,” said Sumra.
 
 Jignesh Mevani, he said, “Even if we disagree grossly on more than one issue, for the larger cause against these fascist forces of BJP, we join hands with each other. At the same time, I have all rights have my reservations about him and he also has the right to have disagreement.”
 
 Hardik was unavailable for comment despite several attempts.
 
 
