KOCHI: The technical committee constituted by district collector following the collapse of a structure in   has decided to expedite the rectification of damaged stretch of road near Kaloor. The work will begin on Saturday morning. The technical committee also advised the district collector to constitute another committee to find out the reasons for the collapse of the structure.

 The building permit issued by the Kochi corporation for the construction of the building of the private textile company has been revoked. The licence of the construction company was also cancelled.
 
 The six-member committee, formed on Friday morning submitted its report to the collector with recommendations on the rectifications need to be done. PWD will strengthen the road.
 
 
 “Earlier the firm excavated up to 7m and did not experience any problem. When they excavated further 3m, pressure from water and heavy traffic movement on road affected the soil. The shoring pillars could not withstand the pressure and this led to the caving-in of the structure,” said Anil Joseph, a structural engineering expert who was part of the technical committee. The committee was tasked with road protection works and safety of nearby buildings.
 
 
 Collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla said rectification works would be carried out on a war-footing and traffic restrictions would be eased by Wednesday.
 
 
 Since the 300mm water supply pipe of the   got damaged due to the collapse of the structure, the water supply to the city will be disrupted till the rectification work is over.
 
 
 “We resumed water supply from distribution line on Kaloor- Kathrikadavu road on Friday morning but with low pressure on another pumping line. We can start rectification work on our line after strengthening of the ground. Usually we open 12 valves while resuming supply. But we only opened five,” said KWA engineer Sheena S S.
 
 
 The water supply to Vaduthala, Elamakkara, SRM Road and parts of M G Road will be disrupted in the next three days.
 
 
 The technical committee comprises officials from public works department,   and a structural engineer. The promoter of the project on whose land the collapse happened has been asked to raise it by five meters.
 
 
