Chandigarh: The Prithvi Shaw-led India   side, coached by Rahul Dravid on Saturday defeated Australia by 8 wickets to clinch the ICC U-19 World Cup trophy. With the victory, India became the only country to win the coveted tournament four times. The most number of players in the team were from Punjab —  , Abhishek Sharma and Arshdeep Singh. 

 Out of these, Shubman and Abhishek played in the final against Australia while Arshdeep warmed the bench.
 
 Prabhsimran Singh, captain of the Punjab U-19 team, was overjoyed on the achievement of the Indian team. “Shubman has been in sublime form and continued to deliver in the crucial games in the world cup. I have been playing with Shubman for past 5 years and he often told that he wanted to represent India in WC. I am glad that he has achieved the feat. I remember, he (Shubman) used to work hard during training sessions and because of his determination he has been carved out a niche for himself as a formidable player.”
 
 Gourav Bhatti, a spin bowler who has been with Gill for the past three years, also expressed his sentiments over the news of the U-19 team winning the WC. “It’s a proud moment for the entire state as three of the lads in the team are from the region and more so because two of them have been pivotal in team’s success. Shubman had a dream run in the entire tournament and it was unfortunate that he lost his wicket early in the final,” he said.
 
 He further told that the atmosphere around the state camp is amazing and the heroes will be welcomed with great pomp and show. “I had a word with Arshdeep before the match and he was confident about team’s victory,” Gourav stated.
 
 Subeer Hayat, a former U-19 player said, “He had a different stroke even when he used to bat in the nets. You could see the passion in his eyes. He has got ample of talent and I am sure this is just a beginning and he will achieve many more accolades in career.” Punjab all-rounder Arpit Pannu, India’s U-23 player who has seen Gill and Abhishek during the nascent stage of their career recollects, “Whenever Shubman came out to bat, it seemed like he was playing effortlessly. He was gifted and has been exceptional in domestic cricket.”
 
 
