PATNA: With handsome grants pouring in from different sources,   (PU) is likely to get a facelift soon. Both its northern and southern campuses are being renovated as per the academic requirement of PU.

 A multi-storey examination hall with a capacity of 2,000 students is to be constructed on the land between   and PU Guest House. “The state government has sanctioned a sum of Rs 5.89 crore for the purpose. This project is to be completed by the Bihar State Educational Infrastructure Development Corporation,” said PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh.
 
 A well-equipped modern auditorium in the name of Sarvodaya leader Jayaprakash Narayan will be constructed on the bank of the Ganga by the side of Batheja Ghat of   (behind the building of Vanijya Mahavidyalaya). JD (U) leader Bashistha Narain Singh has provided a sum of Rs 2.5 crore from the MPLAD funds for the purpose. He has also provided a sum of Rs 42 lakh for the construction of PU centenary gate by the side of the   located on Ashok Rajpath.
 
 Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has promised to give a sum of Rs 1 crore to PU for construction of a new gymnasium at Patna College. The old gymnasium building, now in a dilapidated state, will be demolished and a new building constructed at the place. The offices of the PU Sports Board and Cultural Activities Board will be located on the first floor of the proposed gymnasium building.
 
 Since governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik is keen on having sufficient number of toilets for girls in all the educational institutions, PU is going to construct as many as 18 units of toilets for boys and girls at all strategic locations on the campus. Sulabh International founder   has also sanctioned funds for construction of four units of toilets, two each at Darbhanga House and Patna College language block. 
 
 The state government has already sanctioned a sum of Rs 2.32 crore for the renovation of Darbhanga House. “PU proposes to have a conference hall, a canteen and a parking area on the premises of Darbhanga House academic complex where more than 18 postgraduate departments of humanities, social science and commerce faculties are located. Besides, the department of ancient Indian history and archaeology, the Institute of Psychological Research and Services and the PU Central Dispensary will be repaired and renovated at a cost of Rs 40 lakh each,” said PU development officer P K Khan.
 
 
