Actor  , popular for his role as cadet   and   in TV shows   and  , respectively, visited Lucknow after three years to promote his latest show Bepannaah. Having visited Lucknow earlier, Harshad was pretty familiar with the city’s monuments, and so this time, he decided to visit the Shaheed Smarak, a structure made to mark the memories of unknown soldiers of India, and the adjoining  , near Riverbank Colony, to pay a tribute to the freedom fighters and defence personnel who laid down their life for the country. Once at the Smriti Vatika, Harshad was quite taken in by the statues of the soldiers and the greenery at the park. "Parks dedicated to the martyrs is something which touches my heart," he said, adding, "When a child comes here with his parents for a picnic, seeing these statues, he will definitely be inspired by them. I heard people saying ke yahan pe greenery kam ho gayi hai, but to be honest, itni greenery bhi hamare liye bahut hai as Mumbai mein parks mushkil se hi milte hain."
Lucknow has something special
 Giving credit to the city for having much more than just chikan and kebabs, Harshad said, "Every city has one particular speciality for which it is known but Lucknow holds a long list of different things for which it can be remembered. The education system of Lucknow is very strong and yahan ke logon ko gaana gaane ka and football khelne ka bahut shauk hai. I’ve seen very few places where people like to play football and enroute the airport, I saw huge grounds where I spotted the young as well as the old, playing football. The city has much more than just Tunday kebabs and chikan," While comparing Lucknow with Pune, Harshad shared, "Pune is famous for education, but if we exclude that factor, nothing is there for one to remember, while Lucknow is not just limited to education and culture. I always feel something special every time I have been here. Lucknow’s aura holds a different charm which the other cities don’t have. Whenever I visit Lucknow, har baar aisa lagta hai jaise shehar aur grand ho gaya hai."
 
  
  Harshad Chopda at Kargil Shaheed Smriti Vatika, near   (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 What an experience!
 Sharing his shooting experience in the city for the TV show Humsafars in 2015, the actor says that people in Lucknow were very patient and cooperative throughout the shoot. "People here are excited and curious to know who is shooting but they never disturb you. Some even waited patiently to click photographs of us actor and that's something which rarely happens in any city. People here also remembered my dialogues from my previous shows and that was something that I found really sweet," said Harshad. 
 Finally making a comeback on TV
 The actor is making a comeback on TV after nearly three years and said he spent all the time in the interim, working on himself. "God has been kind to me in terms of my career. When you reach a point where it’s all about survival and you cannot survive without work, then work comes to you. Before my money runs out, God has always been there to give me work to choose from. I never see that period as a gap in my career as all this while I was working on myself. I have gained more discipline during this time as compared to the previous years," said he. "Sometimes things don’t happen as you plan them. Post Humsafars, it was the weirdest phase in my life. I even did a film which was supposed to release but it didn’t because of demonetisation and post that release, a show of mine was scheduled to start, which didn’t. So all these things added to my absence from the small screen," added Harshad. 
 
 - By Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
