TRICHY: It’s not often that we come across a person who gives up his/ her primary job to plunge into an all-new field purely out of passion. J   is one of the very few who dared to abandon his profession as a goldsmith to become a ‘parotta master’ and subsequently launch the super-hit food joint, Sri Mahesh Tiffin Centre. 

 Known especially for its egg-less kaima parotta, laba parotta and veechu parotta, Saravanan’s eatery, which opened seven years ago at   in  , has people swarming every night to taste the delicious food items. “Passion for cooking was something I picked up while I was learning to become a goldsmith in Sri Lanka,” says Saravanan. “In the mornings, I used to get trained to open a jewellery workshop while at nights I found time to learn to prepare parottas,” he said.
 
 After staying in Sri Lanka for close to eight years, Saravanan moved back to India in the mid-nineties and was working as a goldsmith for about four years. “I soon realised that it was not something I wanted to keep doing and hence took up the job of a ‘parotta master’ at an eatery and worked there for about nine years,” the 47-year-old recalled. On gaining confidence to start an eatery, he didn’t think twice before plunging into the food business. “Right from the first day, the response has been really good and close to 200 customers visit my place every day now,” he said.
 
 Open from 6.45 pm to 12 am, kaima parotta, laba parotta and veechu parotta – which are available for Rs 50, Rs 40 and Rs 15 per plate respectively -- get over in an hour’s time thanks to the huge demand. “I don’t use egg in any of these varieties and for kaima parotta especially. Unlike other eateries, I also don’t use ingredients like ajinomoto that are not good for digestion,” he claimed. “Since I’m both the owner and parotta master, I don’t dish out items in an unhealthy way to decrease the preparation cost,” he said. 
 
 The main ingredients of kaima parotta at his eatery are parottas, ginger garlic paste, coriander leaves and tomatoes. Apart from these parotta varieties, kuska, idli and idiyappam are also highly sought-after among the customers. When asked if he had any plans to expand his business in the future, Saravanan said, “I get tempted to do so every once in a while. But many have had huge failures when they got too ambitious and expanded their eateries. I’m just playing the waiting game for now,” he stated.
 
 What: Egg-less kaima parotta, laba parotta and veechu parotta
 
 When: 6.45 pm to 12 am
 
 Where: Bajanaikuda street, Palakarai
 
 
