Ludhiana: At a time when the Union government has introduced different schemes to build toilets across the country, Ludhiana city — which has around 350 female cops working in different police stations — has ladies washrooms in only three police stations. 

 The issue was raised by women cops during Women’s Police Conference on Empowerment and Self-Development organized by the local police administration with Ficci Ladies’ Organization. Besides, female cops also shared their experiences of having an inadequate work environment, when they have to face embarrassment because of the abusive language used by male cops unintentionally.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (headquarters) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said Ludhiana city had approximately 350 female cops, but out of 30 police stations in the commissionerate, only three had washroom facilities for women — Sarabha Nagar, Moti Nagar, and Division No.3. She added: “The matter has been brought to my notice that in the absence of washrooms, female cops have to make arrangements in nearby areas. Besides, in the Moti Nagar police station, ladies have complained that male cops have been using their washroom most of the time. In some cases, SHOs allow them to use their personal washrooms, but in many cases, the ladies feel real difficulty.”
 
 Besides, the official highlighted that female cops feel uncomfortable and face embarrassment when male cops unintentionally use abusive language while interacting. The cops also shared their difficulty in commuting late at nights and going on raids with male cops at night time. Bhatti added: “During late night raids, if a female cop is alone with a male cop, they feel uncomfortable. They have demanded that at least two female cops be included in raid teams. Further, the problem of absence of female barracks was also highlighted. Not all police stations have female barracks or lock-ups. What is more, there is no woman SHO in any Ludhiana police station.”
 
 Along with this, cops have also demanded the facility of transportation at night hours. The official added that all these issues would be included in a memorandum to be sent to the director-general of police (DGP-Punjab) Suresh Arora, though police commissioner RN Dhoke. A few cops also shared they were attached in rape and sexual harassment cases mostly for investigation. But later during investigation, the male cops take over the cases.
 
 Helpline for women cops
 
 ADCP-III Gurpreet Kaur Purewal shared the helpline number with female cops and motivated them to speak against harassment faced by them at the workplace. Besides, different motivational and self-development speakers interacted with cops, shared tips to de-stress themselves, and deal with difficulties and struggles in personal and professional life. Police chief RN Dhoke said: “ I am aware of the issue of ladies washrooms in police stations. A week ago, I had ordered ADCP Headquarters Sandeep Garg to get ladies washrooms constructed in all police stations.” 
 
 
