CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) is all set to implement   in its hostel canteens. When implemented, the hostel canteen bill of a student will increase by approximately Rs 300 per month. The university received a communication from the Centre for the GST implementation in the late January, 2018. 

 “A total GST of 5% will be levied on the total monthly bill of a student. However, this is yet to get cleared by the vice-chancellor. Once implemented, a student, who takes all meals from the hostel mess will have to shell out around Rs 300 more per month for the bill,” said dean student welfare (DSW) Prof Emanual Nahar.
 
 He added that the government of India notification to implement GST came to the university in late January 2018, following which the authorities held meetings to discuss its implementation. One meal in the hostel mess costs around Rs 30 and if a student has all meals for a month in the university, the expenditure would increase by around Rs 300 considering 5% GST on the total monthly bill. Nahar said they have formed a sub-committee also to see the GST implementation in the hostel mess.
 
 “I have given my dissent in writing to the DSW because why should a student pay what the contractor has to? Earlier, 1% tax had to be paid by the contractor, but now after the GST implementation, the students will have to pay for this,” said Vani Sood, secretary of the Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC). 
 
 The council has also given some suggestions regarding the implementation of the GST. They have suggested that a proper list should be there in all the hostels, depicting the rates after GST implementation, so that the students are aware about it. Moreover, the students have suggested that there should be a proper billing system, since the canteen workers round off the bill and the students have to pay some amount extra. 
 
 “We are totally against the GST implementation However, the university cannot really do anything about it since it is the notification from the Centre,” said  , joint secretary of the PUCSC. 
 
 
