Prime Minister   on Monday hosted a round-table meeting with CEOs of top global companies in Davos. PM Modi hosted the welcome reception for international elite, who gathered to discuss the challenges confronting the global economy. 

 
 The Prime Minister narrated India's growth story and presented exciting opportunities for global business in India at the roundtable meeting, tweeted MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar. 
 
  
  
 
 Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister also met Swiss President Alain Berset. The two leaders had productive discussions on steps to further deepen our bilateral cooperation built upon our shared values of democracy and diversity, said Raveesh Kumar in one of his tweet. 
 
  
  
 
 On Tuesday, the PM is scheduled to deliver the inaugural speech exactly a year after   told the world about the benefits of globalisation, while US president and his supporters were chanting 'America First'. Modi is expected to make a strong statement even as his officials try to showcase "New India" and its growing potential given easier rules apart from being a large market.
 
 
 With chai-pakoda in sub-zero temperature to the India Lounge, which has been rechristened many times in the past few years, the government is trying to make an impact with its sales pitch. The only thing that looked a little out of place were two yoga instructors, who flew in wearing a dhoti with a chaadar wrapped around. Not only did the white attire in a matching background draw eyeballs but even prompted an Indian-origin professor to advise one of them to change their outfit.
 
 Apart from soft power, a battery of Indian corporate chiefs including   chairman N Chandrashekhar, ICICI Bank's   and Wipro's  . Reliance Group chairman Mukesh Ambani too is listed as part of the Indian contingent which is estimated to have crossed the century mark.
 
 With Indian business getting a global footprint, attendance has increased over the years from the times when handful of CEOs led by  , seen as a member of the Bombay Club that advocated pro-swadeshi policies, came to the weekly gathering ahead of the ski season.
 
 While several requests for bilateral meetings from global CEOs were received by Modi's office, the PM has opted to meet corporate chiefs in groups, starting on Monday evening. He is scheduled to hold another consultation on Tuesday with Indian officials armed with dockets listing out hurdles that have been removed as well as sheets that give reasons for some of the concerns raised by CEOs in the past not being addressed.
 
 
 
 
 
