NAGPUR: Parents of students appearing for MHCET 2018 exam had no choice but to wait for their children outside the exam centre in scorching heat till the exam was over in the evening on Thursday.

 The Paper I (maths group) started at 10am while the Paper III (Biology) group ended at 4pm. There was a gap of an hour each between both the groups — 11.30am to 12.30pm and 2pm to 3pm. The Paper II (Physics and Chemistry) was held at 12.30pm.
 
 Parents, most of whom were not from Nagpur, slammed the officials for scheduling the exam on a weekday and for not making any sheltered place available for waiting. They claimed that they were also not told that students would not be allowed to come out during the one-hour breaks. It left the kids on a hungry stomach.
 
 Parents told TOI that no proper sitting arrangement was there on the campuses. “We were forced to wait in the parking lots or on the roads in from of the centres. There isn’t any food facility for students here, only chilled water is being given to the examinees,” the woman complained.
 
 Centre officials at some schools helped clear these doubts but parents complained that adequate information about food arrangements wasn't given prior to the examination.
 
 Jyotimani Roque, an invigilator at a Dhantoli, admitted that some parents had an issue with a waiting place for them, but assured that they will make sure to keep that in mind the next time.
 
 A parent   said she was disappointed for children not being provided food and canteen facilities, and since she was a working parent she had to take an off from work as the exam was conducted on a weekday.
 
 However, there were no problems at some other centres. Rameshwar Milmile, a parent, said the exam was very well managed. “Students and parents didn't complain arrangements. Everything was well organized,” he said.
 
 Another parent Adinath Gawande said the officials were helpful and good facilities were provided.
 
 A father, who came with his daughter from outside Nagpur, said the officials should have made these things clear at the time of form filling. “Things like carrying your own tiffin or food too should be included in the to do list. Officials can also hold counselling on such issues before exam,” he said.
 
 
