Vijayawada: The anger among people over the meagre allocations to   Pradesh in the   was reflected in the bandh called by Left parties in Vijayawada. The bandh had a huge impact in the city. 

 A collective decision evolved probably for the first time with many civil society groups voluntarily extending support to the bandh, and participating in the protest. The ruling TDP also observed the bandh by taking out protest marches in solidarity with their MPs. 
 
 All Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) buses did not ply on Thursday. Activists of CPIM, CPI and YSR Congress gathered at Pandit Nehru Bus Station from 5 am. They blocked the entry and exit points of PNBS, raising slogans against the Centre, and also the state government for failing to deliver on the promises made to the state during the bifurcation in 2014. 
 
 Educational institutions remained shut as managements had announced a holiday. The district educational officer sent out a circular declaring a holiday on Thursday in view of the safety and security of students and the staff.
 
 All commercial establishments remain closed till evening. The otherwise busy wholesale market at One Town area wore a deserted look. Except for medical shops and some eateries, all commercial establishments downed their shutters and participated in the bandh.
 
 The Congress, CPIM, CPI, YSRC and Jana Sena activists took out rallies at Lenin Centre. At NTR circle, all political parties including the ruling TDP, staged a protest demanding justice for Andhra Pradesh. TDP leaders also staged a protest at Dharna Chowk.
 
 The city police deployed additional force in view of the bandh. Unlike on previous occasions, the police did not obstruct the protesters, and focused on regulating traffic at crucial junctions.
 
 Student unions affiliated to all political parties participated in protest rallies shouting slogans, demanding special status for Andhra Pradesh, and to fulfil the promises made in Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014.
 
 Meanwhile, TDP MLA from Penamaluru, Bode Prasad, protested against the Union government by tonsuring his head at Vuyyuru. Speaking to reporters, he said it is not to insult anyone, but to register his protest in a symbolic manner. 
 
 “Our leader N Chandrababu Naidu waited patiently and adhereing to coalition dharma but now patience has run out,” he said.
 
 “Andhra Pradesh has been suffering revenue deficit for the past four years.It has taken pains to put the state on growth path,” Prasad said. “Even though we are part of the alliance at the Centre, the support from the BJP-led NDA government is minimum. This has now reached to the level of insulting the people of Andhra Pradesh. It is a symbolic protest to reflect the fact what the state has got from the Centre,” said Prasad.
 
 
