KOCHI: A couple of Kochi-centric tourism projects announced at least a decade back, including one of the flagship projects of making Mulavukad into a  , is yet to take off.

 Despite having held discussions with the civic administrators regarding the project, in which plans for the documentation of the cultural and historic landmarks of the village, popularisation of the exclusive cuisines and art forms and the introduction of home stays were made, the ideas failed to materialize.
 
 
 However,  , the former tourism minister and the present MP from Ernakulam, has hardly any reason to explain as to why the projects never took off. “We could not follow up with the projects. But   has been successfully developed into a model tourism village, which is still progressing, with the panchayat on the move to become a plastic-free zone,” Thomas said.
 
 The Kumbalangi project, however, is now illmaintained, with the park by the lakeside having been overgrown with wild bushes and the information centre having been turned into a club.
 
 “The Mulavukad project, along with many other tourism projects announced during the period when K V Thomas was tourism minister, and I the district collector, had problems with fund allocations and there were no follow-ups to the proposed projects after their announcements,” said  , who served as the district collector from 2004-08.
 
 Projects like ‘Model Road’ between   and Bharat Tourist Home, developmental projects at High Court boat jetty, heritage lighting at Fort Kochi and other projects are among the many plans that failed to materialize.
 
 Former mayor, K J Sohan said that such cases of not pursuing the project after its announcement is an ever-present concern. “Many a time, projects are announced and passed without basic feasibility studies that examine the viability of the implementation of the plan. Sometimes projects are announced without even finding enough funds for it, sometimes crores of rupees are spent on a project when only later they realize that it won’t succeed,” said Sohan.
 
 Former Mulavukad panchayat president, A K Dinakaran, however, said that opposition from the residents of the area, besides the unavailability of funds, prevented the realization of the plan to make Mulavukad a model cultural village. “They had apprehensions about tourists coming to their village and the ensuing changes that might interfere with their lives,” Dinakaran said.
 
