 ”Don’t call me a poetess. Call me a poet instead”. One can’t miss the conviction in her voice and the determination in her eyes when Kashmiri poet   says the above sentences during her first visit to the city to receive the   for poetry from Sankha Ghosh on Tuesday. A recipient of the  , Nighat is planning to write a poem inspired by Tagore. Excerpts from an interview with the poet from Anantnag:

 
 
 I am a first generation learner in my family. My mother never went to school. My father dropped out from school after Class VIII. It was difficult to do anything with literature when one is a first generation learner. There was no one to guide me or suggest what kind of books to read. I have two elder brothers and one younger brother. I also have a younger brother. I had to struggle to get to read books. Firstly, there weren’t that many books available. Even if there was, it wasn’t easy to get time to read them. A girl from a village in Kashmir has to do a lot of household chores.
 
 
 
 My mother encouraged me. She wanted me to do good things in life. She had limited dreams. It’s not that she wanted me to write poetry that would be published. Rather, she wanted me to get my degrees and then try for a government job. Since she was illiterate, I also had one advantage. I could read all the novels that my elder brothers had access to. She would think I was reading my school books while they were actually Urdu romantic stories (laughs). If I came from an educated family, I would perhaps have been reading ‘Alice in Wonderland’ then.
 
 
 
 No, there were others. But many didn’t cross Class X. Girls drop out early.
 
 
 
 They wanted me to study but didn’t expect me to write poetry. Besides, poetry isn’t a stream that gives a lot of money. My brothers wanted me to get a degree and a job. After I got a government job in a school, I got more power to do the kind of things I want to do. In our kind of families, freedom of speech is connected with finances. If a woman earns, she is given some space to speak.
 
 
 
 Yes. I have seen this insecurity in the eyes of my mother. She would say that since I was reading so many books, no one will marry me. I always used to tell her that if a man is happy with this Nighat, he will marry me. If he is not happy with this Nighat, he should not marry me. Recently, I read a Facebook post where someone wrote that while the whole world is striving to empower women, no one is preparing men to face them.
 
 
 
 Empowered women are seen as a threat to humanity. A woman has been given the space of a damsel in distress. I had read a book by Pakistani author Kishwar Naheed where she writes: ‘Pakistan mein larkiyon ko shikate hai ki tum jab sasural jayogi, wahan pe gaai bankar baethna (In Pakistan, women are taught to behave like cows when they go to their in-laws’ house after marriage)’. In reality, they are not dumb but they are asked to pretend to be that to get work done.
 
 
 
 Yes. It is the safest and weakest way to get work done. These women don’t want to show their intelligence to men. With the passage of time, women have learnt that living their lives as intelligent women is challenging. There is another dimension to this whole narrative. Look at how little space men have reserved for intelligent women.
 
 
 
 In the long run, it is not going to work for women. These women who choose the safe way are the real threat to the women with a voice. As long as these women exist, the others will be branded as arrogant and difficult. I personally will always choose a difficult path. Otherwise, I will be creating an unsafe space for so many other women.
 
 
 
 I have been shamelessly asked if my poems were ghost-written. In front of me, these men will appreciate my work. But behind my back, they will say such mature poetry must have been penned by someone else. I have even been told that I am getting awards because of my gender. If a man gets an award, he deserves it. If a woman gets it, she is manipulating it. I have heard so many disturbing stuff. Traumatised, I wanted to break my pen. I stopped writing. After a year, I asked myself who is benefitting from this stand. I wasn’t. My poetry wasn’t. Literature wasn’t. Only my detractors were happy that I had stopped writing. Finally, I returned to writing. I was recently reading a book on growing up as a woman writer. When a woman is into dancing, she is called a dancer. When she is into singing, she is called a singer. When a woman is into writing, why is she called a woman writer? That’s because writing is a field related to intelligence. For ages, men have reserved intelligence for themselves. That’s why when women entered this field, they were called women writers. But it’s OK if a woman is dancing and singing. These are related to pleasing the senses. For ages, men have wanted women to please the senses. By using the term ‘a woman writer’, men drag a woman out of their competition.
 
 
 
 Lal Ded was a mystic and she had more freedom than men. People followed her. After her death, they gave her public acceptance. Habba Khatoon was the queen of Kashmir in the 14th century. The king married her because she was a poet.
 
 
 
 Lal Ded’s poetry is about existentialism and spirituality. Habba Khatoon wrote love poetry. I sometimes wonder how she dared to write such sensual poetry at that time. Here one must also understand that Habba Khatoon was a queen. People gave her public acceptance. But after her, there was no woman writing for another two centuries. Could it be possible that there was no intelligent woman around? Perhaps, people never protested in case of Habba Khatoon because she was a queen.
 
 
 
 One has to read a lot to think about issuing a threat to a poet. Fortunately, those who issue such threats don’t read my works. That way I am safe. Music, on the contrary, is accessible to everyone who issues those threats.
 
 
 
 I haven’t followed the news. But if a woman enters a certain field, she has to follow a dress code. Lawyers and sports personalities have certain dress codes. But in personal lives, women should be given freedom to wear what they like. They have been forced to become carriers of tradition when they should actually be allowed to only carry the baggage of their own choices. If a woman wants to wear an abaya, she should be allowed to do so. If not, she should be allowed that as well.
 
 
 
 The condition in the Valley has improved a lot since 2005. Whatever we see now is 5% of what it was when I was a child. Growing up in a war zone has a lot of after-effects. My father was a soft target because he used to wear a beard. I would plead with him to shave but he didn’t listen to me. He had every reason not to want to do so. But every time he was whisked off by the Army on some pretext or the other, I feared he would never return. Living amidst bullets and pellets made people think that life is not so important. Deaths were so common. The child I would play with in the morning would lie in a pool of blood in the evening. Search operations were on. The tragic part was boys from college joined militant groups. They would get killed within a month or year of joining the group. They died without contributing anything to this world, except perhaps taking a life if they got a chance to do so. More tragic was that people have celebrated these deaths. Some still do. They even take photos with the deceased and upload them. If nobody gets killed for a month, people think life has become abnormal!
 
 
 
 I don’t watch or read news. There is so much disturbing news all around. I guard myself from allowing it to enter my mind. I believe if we constantly allow violence to enter our minds, it makes us violent too.
 
 
 
 How much of this violence can you take? If you go on doing this, you will lose your sensitivity. I have too many battles to fight and have my right to choose my battles.
 
 
 
 Why is the onus only on us? Why can’t others do it?
 
 
 
 It is a political issue. It can be solved if the political leaders of all concerned parties have the will to resolve it. Unfortunately, it helps them if the problem remains unresolved.
 
 
 
 Everything isn’t fair during war. So many war crimes have gone unreported. In one night, 80 women were raped in a village. Men were forced to leave village. The age of those who were raped was between 10 and 80. Earlier, many civilians had got killed as human shields. Because of social media, the last incident became so huge. Perpetrators today know that social media is on guard and they can’t get away with such war-crimes.
 
 
 
 It has been a trend for 20 years now. Parents teach Urdu and English to their children. I have seen them proudly say that their children can’t speak Kashmiri. This could be a colonial hangover. It’s OK to learn other language. But I don’t understand the pride in saying that one can’t speak in his or her mother tongue. Even people writing in Kashmiri speak in Urdu and English among themselves. However, I have seen many youngsters wanting to learn Kashmiri. They want to read my poetry. When I published my book titled ‘Zard Panike Dair’, there was a general narrative that nobody would buy it since it was about Kashmiri poetry. So, it came as a surprise when most of my books were bought by youngsters. They sent me photos of themselves with my book. As a poet, that was such a gratifying gesture.
 
 
