Every football fan must have heard Haydn scores of times without perhaps realising it. When   lines up, it's the great Austrian composer's music which lends itself to the hymn-like national anthem the team sings. On Sunday, the city will hear one of Haydn's most celebrated works, the Nelson Mass. 

 The third in the glorious set that his last six masses make, Haydn's title for the work, written in 1798, was Missa in  , or Mass for Troubled Times. True to its name, it has a dark sound in parts, full of forebodings about the future. Europe was in turmoil at the time and much of Austria was occupied by Napoleon's army. How the mass came to bear Lord Nelson's name is one of those fables that puts western music almost in lockstep with European history, making it a chronicle of momentous events.
 
 "The Nelson Mass is a majestic work. One of Haydn's very, very greatest pieces. It is full of typically Haydnesque energy and has incredible depth of emotion," says British baritone-conductor  , who will lead the   and the Symphony Orchestra of India in a performance of the Haydn work, and also Beethoven's Choral Fantasy, at the NCPA on Sunday. "Haydn wrote the mass at a time when his boss (Prince  ) had fired half his orchestra. But Haydn ran with that. Having lost his wind players, he came up with a score that was austere, but grandly austere."
 
 The letter of the work is liturgical, based as it is on the Latin Mass of the Catholic Church, but its spirit, a denunciation of war, cannot be more secular. The signs of the times are woven in the harsh undertones of the opening, followed immediately by a paean to peace. After that comes a statement of faith and its reaffirmation through holy suffering and resurrection. But the portents of war are never far, and the mood darkens, leading to a roiling whirl of trumpets and kettledrums. But what wins the day is a soothing prayer for absolution, towards the end of which is a triumphant appeal for calm.
 
 Sumptuous versions of the mass were made in the prosperous times that were to come, but there's nothing to beat the authenticity of the master's score. "We are sticking to the original," says Carr. "The choral parts are wonderful. The strings will have a field day and the drums will come in with eclat."
 
 The Nelson connection? Well, by the time the mass was premiered in September 1798, the legendary admiral had dealt a bloody blow to Napoleon in Egypt. The unexpected news is said to have arrived in Vienna the day the mass was staged, and the coincidence is believed to have led to the work eventually acquiring Nelson's name, not to speak of that the admiral visited the Esterhazy court in 1800, where he met Haydn.
 
 The other prominent piece to be played at the NCPA concert will be Beethoven's Choral Fantasy, an unusual composition combining the piano with orchestra and chorus. It was so designed because it formed the concluding piece of a programme and Beethoven wanted to include all the forces of the previous pieces. But the relative frivolity of such an exercise is an illusion, as the work has been called a precursor to the Ninth Symphony. "This was a sort of a tryout for the Ninth (not only because of thematic links, but) also because of the way he uses the choir to augment the emotion," says Carr. "Then, of course, it is a terrific workout for the pianist, with a bravura part for the piano."
 
 
  
 
 
 
