KOCHI: A plethora of marine flora and fauna at CMFRI museum was a unique experience for around 2,000 students, who came to attend the open house, an exhibition-cum-education programme, organized by the Central Marine Fisheries ResearchInstitute(CMFRI) on its 71st foundation day on Saturday.

 The museum accommodates over 2,200 specimens of marine flora and fauna. The Antarctic krills, horse shoe crab, sea snakes, sea birds, pearl oyster, sea cow, sharks, penguins and dolphins were a huge hit among the youngsters and theelders alike. Buttheflying fish literally stole the show.
 
 Chris   Shaji, a high school student, was on cloud nine when she got to see a pair of flying fishes. “I have read about flying fishes but after I saw it in the ‘Life of Pi’, I was curious to know more about this particular fish. I never thought I will get a chance to see it anytime soon. The exhibition was really a blessing for us as it has provided a rare glimpse to delve into the secrets of marine life.”
 
 “I am planning to do a research on marine species, including flying fish,” saidChris, who is a science stream student at government girl’s higher secondary school,  .
 
 While some were glued to octopuses, angler fish, natal angler, lanternfish, parrotfish and shovelnose guitarfish, the toddlers who came to the exhibit were looking for mermaids, clown fishes and blue tangs (royal blue tang or surgeon fish) which were featured in the film ‘Finding Nemo’ and ‘Dorry’ series.
 
 The exhibition also highlighted the impact of climate change in fisheries.
 
 “There had been changes in scores of areas such as sea surface temperature, chlorophylla, wind and rainfall, ocean current, spawning season, maturity, distribution and catch of various marine fishes owing to the climate change. Climate change coupled with the intense fishing pressure has an adverse effect in fisheries resources,” said P U Zacharia, project coordinator of the NICRA.
 
 Adaptive measures such as reducing fishing efforts, plantation of mangroves, farming of seaweeds and promotion of cage fish farming are need of the hour, said Zacharia.
 
 Shiftin distribution ofcommercially important fish resources affects the catch and thereby livelihoods and national economy to sustainable level, he added.
 
 
