KANNUR: With the   leadership starting reporting the criticism of the party leadership against what is called the 'self glorification' of district secretary  , at the lower strata of the party ahead of the district conference later this month, it is seen as a calculated move to control him and clip his wings. According to the leadership,   glorified himself as a 'super leader', and this is against the norms and codes of the party.

 Though the party state committee had criticized him in November for self-glorification moves, the leadership here had hinted that there was no possibility of reporting it to the local and branch committees. However, that is what is happening now, and how it will reflect in the district conference is being curiously awaited.
 
 Ever since the criticism surfaced, the 'visibility' of Jayarajan has also come down and even the number of news conferences he chaired has been reduced. Though he personally welcomed the criticism and urged the cadres to strengthen the party instead of focusing on any one leader, it has brought about a division within the party.
 
 According to a five-page circular, the senior leader of the party did not feel anything strange in the campaigns that praised him. Even his   post apparently supported this and his reaction to the song album comparing him to P   is an example to this. However, Jayarajan has approved his mistakes and is ready to rectify it, said the circular.
 
 Despite criticism, there is a segment that supports Jayarajan as their leader and praise him as the 'red star' of  . "There is a large group of young cadres who see a hero in Jayarajan, and they see him as the lone force that fight the Sangh Parivar in the district, whereas the middle-aged cadres and sympathizers see him as a stumbling block in the peace process in the district," said a local leader, who did not want to be named.
 
  There are other district secretaries who have glorified themselves using the party machinery, but there was no action, which might be questioned in the district conference.
 
 
