THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : Its impact on all India   allotment is yet to be discerned, but the all India medical counseling committee ( ) has for the first time warned the bands of junior doctors against their clandestine attempts to manipulate PG medical seat allotments.

 The presence of small groups of junior doctors colluding with each other in favour of PG medical seat aspirants from their  , often as part of undercover financial deals, has been a reality for some time now. However, such attempts often went unnoticed as proof to prove the existence of a cartel was weak.
 
 
 TOI on Wednesday had reported about the concerns expressed by a section of Medical PG seat aspirants from Kerala, who felt such cartels and the last-minute rule changes by the MCC would take a toll on their genuine claims for seats of their choice.
 
 On Wednesday when the second phase allotment process started, the MCC come out strongly against the unhealthy practice of blocking the all India seats by top   themselves. “MCC/ MoHFW is receiving lot of complaints from students regarding an active participation of some groups of students who are likely to block AIQ seats in the second round, deliberately for financial gratification, without intention of joining them. This amounts to a criminal offence and has been viewed seriously. Such students will be identified and if credible evidence of seat-blocking by a cartel is found, legal action will be taken against them. Nearly one thousand students who have not joined after first round have been identified and their future course of action during second round is being monitored closely. Other candidates are also requested to identify such candidates and report their Roll No./ NEET Rank to the MCC if and when they are aware of this issue,” the notice issued by MCC on its website said.
 
 According to sources, one of the masterminds of a Maharashtra-based group was taken into custody by police on Wednesday after the messages shared by colluding members of the group on social media got leaked. The modus operandi of such groups is that they would block both the all India and state quota seats allotted to  . Later, they would relinquish the all India seats, which would then get add up to the state quota, denying the chance of toppers in the all India list.
 
