LUDHIANA: For the facility of residents and putting one of its white elephants to use, civic officials are going to establish a sub-office of birth and death certificates in the vacant shops of   Passenger Underpass (PUP)very soon. Officials have made all arrangements to set their system in this PUP, which has been lying in disuse for a long time in the absence of any visitors. This sub-office will cater to applications for birth and death certificates for various colonies on Ferozepur Road within MC limits.

 Residents of colonies like BRS Nagar, Aggar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, and  , at present have to visit the D Zone office of MC in Sarabha Nagar, or Middha Chowk office near Jawahar Nagar for birth and death certificates. If a sub-office comes up in this PUP outside Aggar Nagar on Ferozepur Road, then people can get their work done here itself. The department is yet to fix a date for its opening. Medical officer (Health) Dr Jasvir Kaur, while confirming the move, said they had space available in the PUP, so to make it easy for people living in that area, the department would set up its sub-zonal office for birth and death certificates there.
 
 Meanwhile, residents have been demanding that MC should start delivery of documents, so that people need not come to their offices to collect them. Model Town resident Jaspreet Singh said MC had announced a few years ago that they would start receiving applications online, and people would get delivery of their documents at home. But though MC had started receiving online applications, for collecting their documents, people still have to visit MC offices.
 
 Recently, the private firm handling the construction work of the elevated road project on Ferozepur Road has been allotted six shops in both PUPs — one outside the Mini Secretariat, and another Aggar Nagar. The company will pay Rs 8,000 for each shop to MC in the form of rent. This will help MC in utilizing the PUPs.
 
 Notably, construction work for the PUP outside Mini Secretariat had started in December 2010, and it was formally inaugurated in November 2012. Similarly, construction work at   was started in 2010, and it was inaugurated in November 2014. There are nine shops in PUP outside Mini Secretariat, and 13 shops in Aggar Nagar. However, despite several attempts, MC could not auction these shops and bring the PUPs to use. 
 
 
