MADURAI: For the first time, several crores of rupees and jewellery offered at the Narayanasami temple in Samithoppu in Kanyakumari district will soon be deposited in a bank   after the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday ordered the temple administration to open an account for this purpose.

 The temple attracts lakhs of devotees from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts during festivals that take place in the Tamil months of Vaikasi, Aavani, Thai and Masi. Ahead of Masi festival that falls on March 4 every year, a local holiday comes in force in those three districts.
 
 A particular clan of family is looking after the temple affairs on a rotational basis. The Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department intervened in it and wanted the family to hand over the temple administration. Regarding that, the executive officer of the temple issued a communication on February 9 last. Challenging it, one S Payan Raja filed a writ before the court, which was heard by justice V Bharathidasan.
 
 Raja’s counsel said that his family’s forefather Muthukutti was leading a life of mendicant renouncing the pleasures of the world and died in 1026. His mortal remains, his wife’s and son were buried in his private property. It is a samadhi and not a religious institution. There is no idol or image. Worshipping rights and administration are vested with the legal descendants of Muthukutti. With the permission of descendants outsiders can enter the place or offer worship. The HR&CE has no role to intervene in the administration. Regarding the dispute, suits were filed before the sub-court in Nagercoil which on January 29 last dismissed them. However, no judgment copy came out. Opposing it, executive officer’s counsel said that there is growing restlessness among devotees pertaining to the temple’s administration. The temple fetches several crores of rupees as offerings, but there is no bank account in the name of the temple to deposit the money which would speak that the funds and offerings are not properly administered. The petitioner’s clan members handle crores of money and gold articles offered by the devotees, the counsel said. 
 
 Following it, the court said that a bank account should be opened to deposit the temple money and allowed the families to look after poojas in the temple.
 
 
