GURUGRAM: Six members of a robbers’   were arrested from Bilaspur area on Monday and sent to three-day police remand. The gang was known for targeting delivery   of e-commerce giant   near its   godown. With the arrest, cops claim to have solved three robbery cases. 

 
 Eight smartphones and Rs 30,000 cash was recovered from the accused’s possession. 
 
 According to the cops, the gang focused on the Tauru godown of Amazon, which is 40km from Gurugram, and served as the centre for all goods to be delivered in the NCR. On April 5, the police received a complaint about an Amazon goods delivery truck heading towards Noida, carrying cellphones, shoes and clothing worth lakhs, being targeted by four armed men and waylaid on NH-8.
 
 An FIR was registered under sections 365 (kidnap), 392 (robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the   and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Bilaspur police station. The complainant claimed that this was not the first incident when robbers had targeted an Amazon delivery van. 
 
 Following the complaint, the crime branch of Gurugram police formed a team under sub-inspector Surender Singh and started the probe. Upon questioning the van drivers who had fallen prey to the robbers, the cops got to know that the accused started following the truck after it left the godown. 
 
 On reaching a secluded spot, they would overtake the van forcing it to stop in the middle of the road. The accused would then take the driver hostage at gunpoint and drive the truck to some other secluded spot. A few of the robbers would be following this truck on another car. On reaching a new spot, the accused would loot the goods and abandon the truck. The driver, too, would be thrashed and left at that spot. 
 
 After month-long investigation, including scanning   footage near the godown and questioning several witnesses and victims in the case, the cops managed to crack the case on May 14. 
 
 They got a tip-off on the location of the accused and nabbed them from Bilaspur area. 
 
 “The accused — Sanjay, Rahul, Viru alias Arjun, Niranjan, Anil and Sandeep — were arrested on May 14 and produced in court within the next 24hrs. The court sent them to three day police remand,” said ACP (crime) Shamsher Singh. 
 
 Police sources revealed that one of the accused, Sanjay, was the son of a police inspector and a resident of Faridabad. 
 
 In a statement, Amazon said, “As India’s most trusted online marketplace we have zero tolerance towards incidents of theft. We recently filed a case of theft with the Gurugram crime branch and thank them for their investigation and support in solving the case swiftly. We look forward to continued partnership with the police and government authorities.”
 
