KOLKATA: With only 24 hours to go before Class XII CBSE students appear for the economics examination one more time, the focus is on revision. With a prayer on their lips to get an “easy” question paper like the last one on March 27, students were busy revising the syllabus and solving questions on Monday.

 While some candidates had the luxury of devoting sufficient time to revision, others had to multitask by concentrating on entrance exams and prepare for economics.
 
 Moksha Chaturvedi, a student of  , said, “I am revising and trying to learn those chapters that I had left out earlier. I have been a bit under stress as I am not sure if this question paper will be as easy as the last one. I am also trying to solve the sample question papers. I am also checking out the previous question papers on the website.”
 
 For Moksha to maintain the concentration is a huge challenge. “When I get bored, I browse social networking sites. The mindset has changed. My last exam (physical education) was held on April 13. Since then, the gap is very long. We are going on a holiday to Agra on May 1, which is keeping me motivated. The end of the exams are keeping my spirits high. It was getting very tiring and annoying. Now, I can enjoy my vacation in peace,” she added.
 
 Rounak Dasgupta from   had planned to visit his grandparents after three years but had to cancel his plans. The youngster from   said, “I have prepared well. I resumed studies and revision only last week. I had left out two questions in the last question paper. This time, I am prepared for those chapters as well.
 
 “It was my mother who kept pushing me to study and it has worked for me. We shall soon go on a vacation to Nagpur,” he added.
 
  from  , however, was not so lucky to get sufficient time to revise. “I appeared for WBJEE on Sunday. It took up a considerable amount of time. I have very little time to prepare for the economics paper. I am going through the notes given to me by my teachers and a few sample papers. I do not have time to revise the entire book, so I am concentrating on the chapter summary. My last exam was on March 27, after which there has been a long gap. As a result, it is taking me a lot of time to recollect the chapters. I shall appear for NEET on May 6 and then will leave for a vacation to Europe,” Neha added.
 
 Consultant psychiatrists have a word of caution for students: “They should not overthink. Instead of being stressed or depressed, students should try to keep themselves focused. Meditating for a couple of minutes may help them relax. They should eat healthy to avoid seasonal illnesses.”
 
 AMahadevi Birla World Academy teacher said, “Some parents discuss the exam stress. Such discussions should be avoided in front of the examinees as they often lead to anxiety.”
 
 Most schools that are venues for exam centres for Wednesdays exam will suspend their senior classes.
 
