 Goa, once the centre of Christianity in the east, has strung together a few unique traditions over the centuries, like the procession of tails held at Se Cathedral at Old Goa, on Good Friday. This lesser known religious event has been enacted here since the 16th century.

 Locally called the ‘Xempddechem Pursanv’, the tradition, which is a part of mourning Christ’s death, entails a procession that is simultaneously solemn and grand. The procession gets its name from the garb worn by the canons — member priests of the Cathedral chapter — who form a prominent part of the ritual along with archbishop  . They wear pink capes with flowing black cloaks that sweep the ground like tails. 
 
 The number of canons participating in the procession has decreased over the decade. Friday saw three canons participating in the liturgical services, but only two were seen in the procession. 
 
 “At one time, there were over 30 canons, but now we have five, only three are active and two are in a clergy home,” a priest said.
 
 The faithful are hopeful about the strengthening of the cathedral chapter with more appointments. “A list has been submitted to the archbishop,” a source said.
 
 Midway through the four-tiered ceremony, after the start of liturgical services, the distinct rattle of a wooden clatter fitted with iron rings announces the procession.
 
 Led by altar servers, the procession moves along the church’s corners with ‘confrades’ (confraternity members) wearing ‘OPA’ and ‘mursa’ vestment, holding a cross, following closely. Some ‘confrades’ act as pall bearers, and carry Christ’s image after it is brought down from the cross. “Christ’s ‘body’ is taken for ‘burial’ in the procession and canons join in,” Fr  , a canon, says. 
 
 The procession ends at the Chapel of Cross of the Miracles, with Christ’s image being laid at the foot of the cross for kissing. In comparison, Goa Velha’s procession of saints — another unique tradition — is much more vibrant and popular, and yet, curiosity draws devotees from   parishes to the Se Cathedral on Good Friday.
 
 
