MOHALI: The Zirakpur Municipal Council on Monday passed Rs 65 crore   for current fiscal year which carries a 13% deficit for the developmental works as compared to last financial year.

 This year, 70% of the total budget expenditure amounting to Rs 45 crore has been proposed which would be spent on the developmental works in the township. The proposal is 13% lesser than that of last year’s budget. Comparatively, budget of Rs 59 Crore was allotted for the last fiscal year. The budget has been passed in presence of   and council president   during MC house meet.
 
 “We have passed the budget of Rs 65 crore for current fiscal year unanimously. The main focus will be on developmental works in the coming year. We have proposed Rs 45 crore out of a total of Rs 65 crores for the developmental works. We have also proposed for various other works like construction of new tubewells, improve water supply for residents and parks, for construction of grid substation and many other public oriented works proposals which have been sent for approval to the local government department.”
 
 The budget showcases the maximum revenue of Rs 32 crore from building application. VAT will likely generate Rs 16 crore, Rs 5.24 crore can be fetched from property tax and Rs 2.5 crore each from additional excise duty and land disinvestments.
 
 Manvir Singh, an official,  , senior vice president and the counselors were present in the meeting. Apart from budget, developmental works and a road map for these works was also discussed in the meeting.   said, “The budget of Rs 65 crore was passed in the meeting, in which Rs 16 Crore from VAT, Rs 50 lakh from electricity, Rs 5.24 crore from property tax, Rs 5 lakh from rent, Rs 4 lakh from licence fee, Rs 2.5 crore from additional excise duty, Rs 2.5 crore from land disinvestment and Rs 1.81 crore from miscellaneous have been proposed as revenue generation.”
 
 “Rs 56 Crore has been utilized till February from last year’s budget allocation. A proposal has been sent to declare ward no 8, 16 and 30 as defamation free wards, to build a 66 kv grid sub station near the   police post, 2 additional tubewels in Bhabat and Baltana, allotment of land for Zirakpur police station near council office and to enhance water supply and sewage for the natural parks have been sent to the local bodies department,” added Gill. 
 
 
