Gulbarga North constituency, which was represented by former minister late Qamar-ul-Islam, is all set for a triangular clash between Qamar’s wife and   candidate Kaneez Fatima, JD(S) candidate   and BJP’s Chandrakant Patil. However, the denial of ticket to former MLC Shashil Namoshi by   is likely to benefit Congress and JD(S).

 Gulbarga North, which houses the magnificent monument of Khwaja Bande Nawaz Dargah, visited by Muslim and Hindu devotees, has a population dominated by Muslims and Hindus. By nominating Fathima, Congress is doing all it can to retain the constituency. Besides playing the sympathy card, Congress is reminding residents of the development works taken up by Qamar.
 
 Bheema Reddy, a close confident of Qamar, said Fatima had initially refused to contest but was persuaded by CM Siddaramaiah, Mallikarjun Kharge and   chief G Parameshwara. “Besides, people of all communities convinced 
  to contest. More than sympathy, we are campaigning by highlighting the contributions of Qamar saab,” he said. JD(S) has fielded Nasir Hussain Ustad, who lost to Qamar in the last elections. “The constituency still lacks basic amenities. Moreover, people are saying that Qamar’s wife does not have experience in administration. I’m sure people won’t vote for communal BJP. Hence, I have a good chance of winning,” said Ustad, who secured 30,377 votes as KJP candidate in the last election.
 
 BJP candidate Chandrakant Patil is not sure if Muslims will vote for him but said the votes of Hindus, including Dalits and other communities, will ensure his victory. “Modi wave, the strategy of   and the determination to make B S Yeddyurappa CM will help in my victory,” Patil said.
 
 The denial of ticket to Namoshi, who enjoys the support of Muslims, may help Ustad and Congress win Muslim voters, according to some residents. The constituency lacks proper roads, drainage and faces drinking water shortage. Syed Ali Zaidi, a businessman, said police harassment of street vendors was an issue.
 
