An exciting final match characterized the   Women Junior event in Sydney, where India’s   prevailed over Thailand’s Kanyakorn Hirunphoem (16) at the very last shot, securing India’s second individual gold at the ISSF Junior World Cup.

 
 
 
 
 
 The 16-year-old shooter overtook Hirunphoem at the very last shot, adding the Junior World Cup gold medal to the one she won earlier this month at the ISSF World Cup in Guadalajara (MEX).
 
 
 
 
  In an impressive display in the final of men's 10m air pistol event, India tasted success in the 10m air pistol men's event too with Gaurav Rana winning a silver medal while Anmol Jain grabbed the bronze.Arjun Singh Cheema (152.7), Anhad Jawanda (134.4) and Abhishek Arya 114.5) finished 6th, 7th and 8th respectively. 
 
 India's Cheema, Rana and Anmol also pocketed the team gold, beating Liu, Wang and Tang -- who claimed silver for China -- and Jawanda, Arya and Adarsh Singh who won bronze for India. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After leading the match by as much as 2.2 points, indeed, Bhaker fired six consecutive shots outside the 10th ring, suddenly finding herself one point behind Hirunphoem with only two shots left to fire.
 
 There, the 9.6-9.8 combo signed by the Indian 16-year-old was enough to definitely overtake her rival, who instead sealed her match with a disappointing 7.9.
 
 Bhaker — who won individual and mixed team gold in Air Pistol at this month’s ISSF World Cup in Guadalajara (MEX) — finished with the score of 235.9 points, while Hirunphoem — who previously wrote a new Qualification World Record with 576 points — took silver with 234.9.
 
 The podium was then completed by People’s Republic of China’s Lu Kaiman, 41st at last year’s ISSF Junior World Championship in Suhl (GER) and marking her first Junior World Cup participation. In Sydney, the 18-year-old won her country’s seventh individual medal, taking bronze with 214.2 points.
 
 Placing just outside of the podium, Bhaker’s teammate Devanshi Rana missed to put a medal on top of her first international competition. The 18-year-old debutant, indeed, took 4th place with 195.3 points.
 
 A second Chinese finalist — 15-year-old Xiao Jiaruixuan, Air Pistol gold medalist at last year’s Asian Championship in Wako City (JPN) — finished in 5th position with 173.2 points.
 
 She was followed by Singapore’s 15-year-old Shirlene Hew Yun Ting and Chinese Taipei’s 19-year-old Chien Hsin-Yi, who respectively finished in 6th position with 153.3 points and in 7th position with 133.5.
 
 At the bottom of the table, Amanda Mak Sao Keng (17) finished 8th in her first international competition ever, scoring 112.9 points and placing 8th.
 
 Bhaker, Rana and Mahima Turhi Agrawal also brought India on top of the team podium, while Xiao, Lu and Li Xue won silver for the People’s Republic of China. Thailand’s Hirunphoem, Luxciga Srinitivoravong and Warunyapha Kaewngoen took the team bronze.
 
 
