VADODARA/RAJKOT/SURAT: Scores of Dalit community came out on streets in Vadodara, Junagadh and   town of Rajkot district and Surat city Thursday and late Wednesday night and blocked roads to protest violence in  .

 In Sayajigunj, protests were held at the   late on Wednesday night. Some miscreants also tried to torch a city bus at the main depot opposite the railway station but they were stopped by others. An effigy was also burnt by the mob.
 
  City police commissioner Manoj Sashidhar said some miscreants had tried to create trouble but the police ensured that they were not successful. “There is no impact of the developments in Maharashtra in Vadodara,” he said. 
 
 Dalit activist Thakore Solanki said that the agitation programmes would continue in the days to come and memorandum demanding strict action against those responsible for the Bhima Koregaon incident would be submitted to the district collector on Friday. Security was also beefed up at Vadodara railway station amid apprehensions that trains might be halted by protestors.
 
 In Surat, a number of Dalit organizations held a mass protest outside the district collectorate on Thursday to demand action against the culprits who had attacked participants at the congregation held at Bhima Koregaon. Members of Mahayavanshi Samaj Yuva Manch Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Vihar Samvradhak Samiti, Akhil Bharat Hindu Yuva Morcha and Samast Ambedkari Samaj reached the district collectorate from police commissioner’s office and submitted their memorandums. They were not given permission to take out a rally.
 
 They demanded immediate arrest of those who resorted to violence and said the culprits should be tried under Prevention of Atrocities Act.
 
 Dindoli police also booked unidentified persons for pelting stones at a city bus near Udhna Bridge at around 4pm. The front glass of the bus was damaged but no one was injured. A group of young men and teenagers threw stones at the bus and escaped. The bus driver came to know about the attack only when the first stone hit the windshield.
 
 Police have registered an offence of rioting and damage to public property. Police investigation revealed that four young men were standing on the road when the bus came. Soon two other groups of five men joined them from a nearby lane and they together began to throw stones at the bus and escaped.
 
 Police have collected CCTV camera footages of the area to identify the miscreants.
 
  In Junagadh’s Vanthali town, a group of dalits blocked roads and shouted slogans protesting atrocities against them in the state. Road traffic movement was affected for nearly an hour. Vanthli observed a complete bandh. Police said that they had adequate personnel deployed to ensure that there were no untoward incidents.
 
 Dalit groups have called for a bandh in Amreli district on Friday.
 
 
