CHANDIGARH: The Delhi police's special investigation team is likely to soon arrest   teacher  's female relative from Punjab's Ferozepur for her involvement in the leak of CBSE Class XII economics paper on March 23. 

 Rakesh and his DAV Centenary School, Una colleagues  , a clerk, and Ashok Kumar, a peon were arrested by the Delhi police on Saturday for their role in the leak.
 
 Delhi police's special commissioner of police (crime) RP Upadhyay told TOI that Rakesh had revealed during his interrogation that he had sent photographs of the hand-written leaked paper to his female relative in Ferozepur, Punjab and she, in turn, sent them to his cousin, who was appearing for the same examination in Panchkula.
 
 From Panchkula, the paper was again leaked and it ultimately spread to Delhi, Upadhyay said.
 
 The leaked paper was ultimately circulated on 40 WhatsApp groups and many students and their parents were involved in circulating it. 
 
 Upadhyay said parents of the students involved in circulating the paper were fully aware of their children’s involvement. Some of the parents had even helped their children crack the leaked paper.
 
 However, Upadhyay was clear that the police did not plan to arrest any student linked to the 40 WhatsApp groups till the Class XII economics re-examination is held on April 25. The Delhi police also ruled out any direct involvement in the leak of the principal of the Una school, where Rakesh taught commerce and economics.
 
 Upadhyay said the principal had been under scanner, but the cops have not found his direct involvement in the case so far. During his interrogation, Rakesh too gave the principal a clean chit, saying that he was not aware of the paper leak.
 
 In Himachal, the local police was not kept in loop by their Delhi counterparts about the arrests on Saturday. The police HQ in Shimla was informed after the arrests. HP education minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that the state was “ready to cooperate with the Central government in this case.”
 
 (With inputs from Shri Gopal Puri)
 
 
 
