CHANDIGARH: An army of   has been making life difficult for tourists and residents visiting   since last few months.

 The strays, which are over a dozen in number, own the 2km walking stretch at the lake and trouble the visitors while they soak into the serenity of the surroundings. 
 
 According to sources, these have been noticed barking at people loudly, while they tread along the promenade or sit upon it to pose for some pictures. “Some dogs were always here, but after the breeding season, their number has increased. Now too many of them roam around the area at the lake and scare people,” said Raju, one of the toilet cleaners. 
 
 Their reign of terror is said to be at its peak in the evenings during twilight when the city population begins flocking the area along the water body to enjoy the sunset. They also join with their families and friends to feel the cool breeze occasionally but are bothered by the dogs all over the place. 
 
 A major chunk of evening visitors at lake comprises of joggers, walkers, fitness troops and exercise enthusiasts, who have been exposed to this inconvenience more than ever. Speaking to TOI, Rahul Dhiman, a government employee, based in   said, “I have been coming to the lake for years now and it’s part of my daily routine. I also try and come as early as I can so that I can escape the crowd. A few days ago, I was jogging from the regulator end back towards the main entrance when a brown dog started running beside me, barking loudly. I was on the jogger’s path and hence I felt more unsafe. However after a while, it stopped following me.” 
 
 Some eye-witnesses have also described events wherein some canines however playfully terrified young children by jumping around them. Once one of the kids even fell down from the promenade due to this and was hurt. 
 
 However, despite a number of people complaining against the presence of stray dogs at the lake, many of them have called this ‘unnecessary hysteria’. Rekha Diwan, who is a dog lover, claimed to have known people exaggerating the situation. “I don’t think these dogs cause any harm to anyone. Most of them are pretty young and just want to play. They do not attack humans until they feel threatened. I have seen children and even adults throw stones at them just for fun. Is this the way to treat a living being? Humans are much more cruel and people should learn to understand how they communicate and accept them,” Diwan said.
 
 
