 is here and the world is high about celebrating the real superheroes in their lives today. While there are fun ways being planned to make mothers feel special, it is heartwarming to see activities and pre-events going beyond the brunches, lunches and gifts. These activities focussed on giving creative or healthy tributes to mommy love and power. We take a look at some of them... 

 
 
 Mansi Mehta, recruitment consultant, decided to use art as a form of therapy. She organised a ‘Paint for your Mom’ initiatives across five cities — Mumbai, Bangalore, Delhi, Pune and Vadodara. 
 “Along with individuals registering to paint a picture, we also had corporates with employee participation and donors who gifted seats to cancer patients, especially kids. Some of our participants held a paint brush for the first time. We had art coaches guiding them to paint and help them try out different art forms like acrylic, zentangle and mandala. The results were amazing. Sometimes, it is important to express yourself with more than just words. This helps you explore creative ways to express and appreciate all that your mom has done for you,” she says. 
 The participants seemed happy with their paintings based on the theme of ‘Mother and child’. While the best among them will be awarded, paintings of a select few will be exhibited in an open art exhibition at Carter Road, Bandra today. “Our initiative is #momishappy. Even the gifts designed are based on moms with messages to care for your mother and coupons for medical check-ups or salon vouchers to pamper your mom with. This activity is a way to reconnect with your mom through art,” says Mansi.
 The open exhibit will also have the art coaches, who are professionals, exhibiting their paintings on the same theme.  , an art coach, is set to display her mother-child painting done in mandala and dot art. “The canvas I will be displaying has a mother and child image against a backdrop that feels like universe as it represents mothers. The colours I have used are blue, green and yellow, which are all calm colours that match with attributes synonymous with moms,” she reveals.
 
 
 
 All of us have special memories about healthy food cooked by moms. And for those who stay far away from their moms, the #maakakhaana, is an initiative to celebrate mommy power and gives access to home-cooked food. 
  kickstarted the idea with with a Parsi food pop-up on Friday, two days before Mother’s Day. “Nowadays people end up eating more of unhealthy food. Not everyone has access to maa ka khaana as people migrate to Mumbai for work. So, we got women to turn chefs for those starved of home cooked meals. It is our intention to empower women, who want to start something of their own and have their own source of income. To start off with, we had five ladies who cooked a typical Parsi meal. We will follow it with other Indian cuisines. It was heartwarming to see that amongst those who came for it on Friday, there were mother-daughter jodis enjoying the lunch session,”
 says Tanna.
 
  
  
 
 
 While storyteller   is all set to release a story on the relationship between moms of today and their kids today, she planned something different for all her listeners. She asked them to share their memories of their mothers. Says Mehak, “Ever since I lost my mother around 20 years ago, I have not created any new memories. As a fiction storyteller, I was curious hear more stories of mothers. So I asked people to share memories or incidents with their mothers on Mother’s Day, which I will narrate on Instagram.” 
 Her timeline was flooded with numerous response. She planned to convert some of them into a story-telling act. “I selected five stories based on those I connected to — I should be able to do justice to them in my story telling. For those five minutes I will be you, and your mother will be mine as I play-act all the characters in the story. We will go live for an hour and will invite those people on live chat.”
 Talking about the stories that she’s received, Mehak says, “Some people have opened out and want to keep the their names anonymous as some of the stories are hard-hitting, which they claim to have never opened up about before. For instance, molestation that took place with their mother.”
 Mehak feels that sharing stories with her has been therapeutic for some. “Some might just think, some may write it out and some may even listen and participate in the session. But, even if you just sit back and think about all that your mother has done for you, then that is enough,” she says.
 
