AMRITSAR :Even as political parties complain about the growing caste divide in the country, a village in Punjab has found a unique way of blurring the lines between various groups. In a rare instance, residents of Sarfkot village in Gurdaspur have decided to shut down four different gurdwaras that catered to various castes and have just one place of worship all for all residents.

 Sarfkot has a population of barely about 1,200 people. The villagers have decided to use the closed buildings for cultural and educational purposes like an anganwadi centre, teaching sewing and organising marriages.
 
 “We had three gurdwaras dedicated to Jat Sikhs and one each for Mazhabi (dalit) and Ramgarhia (OBC) Sikhs,” said Amrik Singh Shahpur, Shiromani   Parbandak Committee (SGPC) member from Dera Baba Nanak. “However, after some convincing, managements of the gurdwaras decided to have just one place of worship in the village which is now being built. We have named it Gurdwara Sangat Sar.”
 
 Shahpur played a key role in persuading managements of caste-based gurdwaras to come under one roof. “I just needed to sit with them and make everyone understand the significance of doing away the symbols of caste, and it worked,” he said.
 
 
 
 The new gurdwara building is being constructed by an NRI from the village. The "saroops" of Sri Guru Granth Sahib were taken from the four gurdwaras in accordance with Sikh code of religious code and kept at a safe place.
 
 It was Giani Gurbachan Singh, jathedar of Akal Takht, who had recently directed SGPC to initiate a movement to persuade managements of caste-based gurdwaras to sink their differences and have one gurdwara per village.
 
 Jagir Singh, an active member of the Mazhabi gurdwara in the village, said, “I find much love and respect for everyone ever since we started going to the single gurdwara. There is a cordial atmosphere in the village. Earlier, we would have five to 10 people in each gurdwara in the evening but now there are more than 50 people at the one place of worship where we also share our concernson various issues.” The Mazhbi gurdwara existed in the village for at least two decades.
 
 Harpal Singh, a Jat Sikh from the village, said that the aim was to sink all differences and set an example for others to follow. Shahpur said they had also decided to employ an educated granthi or priest who would preach Sikhism to the youth.
 
 Gurmeet Singh Hanspal, a Ramgarhia Sikh youth, added, “We, the youth have decided to bring unity among all classes in the village and nothing could have been better than paying obeisance at a single gurdwara. We have shown the world that we can do it, we can bridge gaps.” The Ramgarhia gurdwara had existed in the village for more than 40 years.
 
 Battle against caste Although one of the key tenets of Sikhism is to have a caste-less society, caste discrimination has found its way back into the faith, leaving many socially backwards communities disillusioned. In the last few decades caste-based gurudwaras mushroomed across Punjab.
 
 There have been strong voices within the community against separate gurudwaras for a while. In the last few years Sikh clergy have also said that the number of gurudwaras should not increase without need. At 31.9%, Punjab has the highest percentage of dalit population in the country.
 
