PUNE: When results were announced early this week,   Ansari, a Class X student of Lady Hawabai Girls High School stood first in state level Bharatiya Vidyapeeth General Knowledge Exam held in December.

 For many, a first prize in a privately held school level competitive examination may not mean much. But for a 14-year-old girl from Bhavani Peth slums, for the first generation class X student, for the only member in a poverty-ridden family of eight who can understand and respond in English, this is a way to show her traditional family that education is the only way to succeed in life. However her father Nabil Ansari clearly states that he cannot support her education further and hence, class X will be the last of formal education, this brilliant girl receives.
 
 From her dingy double-room house in the interiors of Harka Nagar slums in Bhavani Peth, where the roads are so narrow that even a two-wheeler cannot go in, Misbah dreams of becoming an IPS officer one day; even when she is sure that her orthodox father, who drives an auto rickshaw for a living, will not allow her to continue education.
 
 Originally from Bijnor in Uttar Pradesh, the Ansari family moved to Pune in search of job and better prospects. Misbah studied in a municipal school till class VII and then moved to Lady Hawabai where the yearly fee for her is Rs 1500. Her teachers attest her to be a very bright yet shy student who wins elocution competitions in her school. 
 
 The principal of the school paid her exam fee for the competition, without the family’s knowledge as they didn’t wanted to burden the family further. “Most of our kids come from impoverished backgrounds where orthodox mindset meets poverty resulting in even the brightest of students dropping out after class X. Even we don’t know what will happen to Misbah after her class X,” said Almaz Shaikh, her English teacher, adding that the school predicts that Misbah will get 96% when Board results are out.
 
 Mahsar Ansari (32) wants her first born to study and get a job. “But decisions in our community are taken by men. Only her father can decide what her future will hold. As for Misba, she seeks refuge in books and cannot be seen without one. Her mentor Matin Mujawar keeps telling her, ‘Succeed in life in such a spectacular way that people from within the community and outside should say, Muslims and particularly Muslim woman can lead too’. I think that has inspired her to have IPS as a goal,” said Mahsar.
 
 Misba studies for at least 5-6 hours every day. Her favourite subject is Mathematics. Books help keep the din of the locality out of her head. Her grandparents, two younger sisters and a brother along with her parents stay in the house. “We have only got a letter saying that I have topped the exam in class X. We haven’t received the marksheet yet. The examination had subjects like Maths, English and general Knowledge. Our principal used to teach for an extra hour after school to prepare for this exam,” said Misbah.
 
 She is sure of scoring above 90% in her class X board exams, sure of what she wants to become if given a chance, but unsure of her own future. “I want to become an IPS officer because honest police officers protect people and help the helpless,” says Misbah.
 
 Nabil Ansari, Misbah’s father who rides the auto every day from 11 am till 11 pm, however calls it a costly dream. “We live in a rented place and there is hardly any money to pay the current fee and feed so many mouths. Children dream big but we also should have the capacity to fulfil that dream. We are poor and in our community, girls are married off early. Even if I want her to study, I can’t afford the fee of class XI and XII, let alone coaching for IPS. Misbah can only study till class X.”
 
