NEW DELHI: Taking suo motu cognizance of “miscarriage of justice” by a single   POCSO court, the Delhi high   has set aside the acquittals and asked the court to re-hear three  .

 While sending back the cases, HC, last week, also ordered the accused persons who had been set free, to surrender immediately.
 
 Sensitive to a pattern of shoddy trial in cases of sexual assault against children decided by the Saket court, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and P S Teji has over the past few months been forced to take corrective steps. It had asked the additional public prosecutor, Rajat Katyal, to bring records of 40 cases where judgments of acquittal were rendered by ASJ Sunil Chowdhary as the   judge, after it found “fundamental errors” in them.
 
 Since then, quite a few of the acquittals have been challenged by the police, but the bench found at least 10 cases that “suffer from manifest error of law, demonstrate glaring illegality resulting in miscarriage of justice”. 
 
 HC has sent back cases while noting that the ASJ rejected evidence in one instance where the child was 7 years old, even disregarding the school certificate brought by the teacher. “In the present case as well, we find that the ASJ has rendered only lip service to the principle, and has, in fact, not analysed evidence brought on record in the correct perspective,” the bench noted when it found that even though the chargesheet had been filed under Sections 363, 354A IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the charges were framed only under Section 8 of the POCSO Act.
 
 “The   on charge is rather cryptic and is not analysed as to why the offence under Sections 363 IPC was not prima facie made out” the bench said, adding that this has “resulted in miscarriage of justice.”
 
 In the second case decided by the same ASJ, one of the grounds for acquittal was that prosecution failed to prove that the child victim was below 12 years of age on the date of the incident. HC pointed out that “the offence does not get obliterated merely because the child may, or may not, be below 12 years of age” and reminded the judge that only gravity of punishment changes with the victim’s age.
 
 Chowdhary’s verdicts first drew HC’s attention while hearing an appeal by Delhi Police challenging the acquittal of a youth who had allegedly kidnapped and raped a 10-year-old girl in 2010. The court found merit in APP Katyal’s argument that the verdict was “perverse” as the trial judge ignored crucial DNA evidence, which revealed that the blood sample of the accused matched stains found on the inner garments of the minor victim.
 
 The Section 397 CrPC empowers a high court or a sessions judge to call for and examine the record of any proceeding before any inferior criminal court within its jurisdiction.
 
 
