PANAJI: Following a gap of nearly eight months, transportation of live   for slaughter by traders in Goa resumed on Wednesday. However, operations at the state abattoir at Usgao, Goa Meat Complex ( ) were hindered by cow vigilantes, even though necessary certificates were granted by the state veterinary doctor for slaughter.

 “On Wednesday, meat traders brought six animals after obtaining necessary permissions from both the states, Goa and Karnataka. After that, the abattoir took charge of the animals and conducted the ante-mortem of the bovines. GMC’s task is to ascertain if the animals are fit for slaughter, which was carried out on that day,” an official of the animal husbandry and veterinary services (AHVS) said.
 
 “The animals that were brought in on Wednesday were fit for transport and slaughter. The activists couldn’t find a loophole, so they claimed that there is a problem with the abbattoir. We have all the necessary licences, and we have also applied for their renewal this year. There has been a delay in issuing the renewals to us, but that doesn’t mean that our operations are illegal,” a senior official from GMC told TOI.
 
 The AHVS official stated that the abattoir maintains a record of being a well-organised and established slaughterhouse in the country. Slaughter activities that were formerly conducted manually, are now done using machines that were installed at the abattoir in 2015. 
 
 “They have a ritual kill box, dry rendering plants and an effluent treatment plant. All of these ensure that the slaughter process is hygienic.” he said, adding that the slaughter is carried out by the GMC staff. 
 
 Traders pay Rs 50 for conducting the ante-mortem, and Rs 400 for slaughter, per animal.
 
 An FIR was registered in the matter, and the six animals are now in police custody at a government-run facility that caters to cattle, south Goa collector, Anjali Sherawat said.
 
 “I have not received any representation from the cow vigilante group. I thought they would approach the collectorate by referring to rules and guidelines, but they haven’t done so, yet. As a result, the matter is currently at the level of the directorate of animal husbandry and the police. However, if any intervention is required from my side, I shall take up the same,” Sherawat said.
 
 Transportation of live animals to GMC was discontinued since October last year, after cow vigilantes from a voluntary organisation had objected to the certification process.
 
 
