THANE: The   ( ) is planning an underground route for the internal   linking the old and new Thane metro stations as the dense localities along the stretch is proving to be a hindrance.

 The 2.2km-long underground link will be part of the 29km-long ring route city metro project that will largely run on elevated levels across the city while only this stretch will run below the Naupada ward. The underground stretch will be nearly 12-25m below the ground level and bypass congested sprawls in and around the railway station area. There will be no halts between the two points as the intention is only to provide a faster connect between the two vital transport hubs in the city, said officials. 
 
 Officials said care will be taken to ensure the old utility lines of foundations of the old structures are not affected enroute. Officials added that the metro route will otherwise move on the surface or on stilts across the entire city. The final route and depth is being worked out by the   that will present the detailed project report to the TMC soon. 
 
 “The route has to be taken underground as there are several buildings on the internal metro route between the old and the new railway station. Working on the surface will possibly lead to damage to the old structures and so we are exploring the possibility of taking the route underground. A detailed project report, including the underground route, will be presented to the civic body soon,” said a senior official working on the project. 
 
 The internal city metro route that will run as a ring route will tentatively have 22 stations. The project was proposed to provide a faster and economic mode of transport to the residents of the city, specially those staying in far off corners like the   to reach the old city area and railway station.
 
 Officials said that the route has been aligned with the high capacity mass rapid transit route that has been proposed from   in Thane east. The metro route will run parallel to it from the new Thane station and diverge near the old station area. Sources said that taking the rails over the Central Railway tracks could have possibly delayed the work, thanks to the quantum of mega blocks required to be taken over the high capacity rail corridor.
 
 The city metro will also act as feeder route to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (MMRDA) Wadala- Kasarwadavli metro IV project. In addition, the TMC is likely to simultaneously develop bus stations and proposed pod car boarding points along the 22 metro routes stations, added officials.
 
 
