NEW DELHI: Nusrat Rashida is a craftswoman from Maldives. She and four other women are representing their country at the   International Crafts Mela that has contingents from 27 countries participating. 

 “When we left our homes, everything was fine. But now, with the storming of the courts, we are getting increasingly worried about how things will turn out,” said Rashida. She and the others arrived a week ago. 
 
 The women have brought an array of hand-made products that reflect the marine life of the country. 
 
 “All of us are housewives from southern islands of Maldives where Addul Trade Cooperative Group is active and this is the first time we have come to India,” said Rashida who is the chairperson of the cooperative.
 
 Women come from voluntary organisations that act as bridge between housewives and tourists. “Our idea is to empower women,” said another woman who is clad in hijab. But the recent developments back home have turned the tour into a source of worry. “We are very concerned about the developments back home. We are in constant touch with our families through internet and by god’s grace nothing bad has happened yet,” she added. 
 
 Maldivian president Abdulla Yameen recently declared a 15-day emergency, arresting the chief justice and another senior judge. “Our country has seen declarations of emergency earlier too. The last president had declared it in 2002. But an upheaval on this scale has never taken place,” said another woman requesting anonymity. Five more women are expected to join the contingent in February 10, and for now there has been no change in schedule. 
 
 A little ahead, there’s a Syrian stall. Eight craftsmen have come from the war-torn country this year. Iskandar Istefan Alhalaby is from Damascus and specialises in mosaic. “We are past the worst phase. Now more and more markets are opening back in Damascus with increasing demand. A few tourists have started coming back; the ISIS is finally defeated,” Alhalaby said.
 
 He said that the traditional arts they learned from their forefathers helped the Syrians tide over the rough times. “I have sold two mosaic tables worth Rs 12,000 on the first day. These art pieces are the speciality of Damascus. Not many people can make them. But the future may be different. My son is interested in economics and wants to work in a bank,” Alhalaby said. 
 
 He hoped Syria soon recovers and flourishes like India. 
 
 
