PUNE: The newly constructed building of Pune Cantonment Board’s ( ) first of its kind English Medium school, Rabindranath Tagore English medium primary school, was inaugurated by Director General of Defence Estates, Jojneshwar Sharma on Saturday. The school aims at providing education facilities to students from lower income groups, whose families cannot afford to send their wards to expensive private schools. 

 The cantonment had started the primary school in 2005 with mere 35 students enrolling that year. Over the years the school has grown into a full-fledged academic establishment with the third batch of Standard X students completing school this year. Currently the strength of the school is around 1,500 students.
 
 The school was initially housed in a building at old Modikhana but it was not big enough to accommodate the growing requirements of the school. Hence, they needed an exclusive building for the primary and secondary sections. The site where the new building has come up earlier accommodated the Cantonment Store Yard which was shifted to a new building on Shankershet Road. The staff quarters there was also shifted elsewhere. 
 
 “Our endeavour is to provide quality education as well better facilities to students, who are mostly from poor families. The new school building is equipped with a library, science laboratory as and also a computer room,” D N Yadav, PCB’s chief executive officer said.
 
 Sharma in his speech lauded the cantonment board’s efforts in completing the building work in the stipulated time. “This school will benefit the students from the lower income group who can’t afford to enrol their children in private schools. The board has to pay extra attention towards maintenance of the building in future,” he added.
 
 Pune MP  , principal director of defence estates (Southern Command) L K Pegu, Khadki Cantonment Board’s CEO Amol Jagtap, defence estates office  , all board members and other senior officials were present.
 
 Civic activist Netraprakash Bhog from the cantonment said, “It’s a positive step taken by the cantonment as poor students will get better facilities and education. The board needs to pay extra attentions toward quality of the education when compared with private schools.” 
 
 
