BENGALURU: TCS’ revenue growth in the fourth quarter was one of its best in recent times. Revenue rose to nearly $5 billion, a 2% growth sequentially in constant currency (which discounts the impact of cross currency fluctuations) and 11.7% year-on-year growth in reported currency.

 The growth was better than that of   (0.6% sequentially in constant currency) and was enabled by good growth from the energy & utility and travel & hospitality units which more than offset tepidness in the banking, financial services and insurance (BFSI) and retail verticals in the US. Incremental revenue in the quarter was $185 million, one of the highest in recent times. Net profit rose 5.6% to just over $1 billion, while operating margin rose to 25.4%, helped by favourable currency movements and improvement in operational efficiency.
 
 The year as a whole was lacklustre, with constant currency growth at just 6.3%, its second successive year of single digit growth and the slowest in nearly seven years. But the good performance in the last quarter and the signing of mega deals worth close to $6 billion in the past few months suggest that the next year will be much better.
 
 “We’re glad to announce we’re back to double digit trajectory on dollar revenue growth,” CEO   said on Thursday.
 
 While BFSI has been sluggish with 0.4% quarterly sequential growth – the big US banks are spending less – the company was “incrementally” more confident of its growth this fiscal in the segment in  . “Not much of the stress is left in the system,”   added. Retail is expected to do well this year, though numbers there so far have been muted as well.   grew 35% in the year to touch more than $4 billion. It now contributes 21% to the top line. Infosys said its digital revenue is 25.5% of the pie, or $2.8 billion. But the two could be measuring digital differently.
 
 
 
  has surprised its employees with a 120% variable payout in the March quarter. The company hasn’t exceeded the 100% level in many quarters. TCS CEO Rajesh Gopinathan said the company had passed on the benefit of a 20-bps improvement in operating margin in March. Rival Infosys paid 100% of the variable pay in the fourth quarter, its highest payout in ten quarters, and announced a new bonus pool from which it will pay out $10 million as incremental bonus. TCS global HR head Ajoyendra Mukherjee said the wage hikes were between 2% and 6%. High performers, he said, got a higher salary increase. He said the company has made offers to 20,000 freshers this year.
 
