NASHIK: More than 10 days have passed since the beginning of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) Examination of the State Board. Junior college lecturers are yet to start the evaluation of the   answer sheets. 

 On Saturday, not a single lecturer turned up to receive the answer sheets piled up in the divisional office of the   in  . No solution is expected before Monday which means 14 days of the evaluation period will be lost. 
 
 According to experienced evaluators and chief moderators, due to this loss, delay in the HSC result is unavoidable this year. 
 
 “Generally, principals of junior colleges start receiving answer papers right from the next day of the examination. They distribute the papers among the evaluators who begin the valuation process right away. By the tenth day of the examination, the initial evaluation for the first two or three papers is completed and the second phase begins. This year, not even a single answer paper has been checked,” said Rajendra Nawathe, who has been chief moderator for the valuation process since last 3 years. 
 
 In 2017, junior college lecturers had adopted a unique technique—slow valuation of answer papers to register their protests.
 
  Instead of checking 40 to 55 papers a day, they used to check only 20 papers. However, this had ensured that at least some of the answer papers were checked before the tenth day when they called off their agitation. 
 
 “This year, not a single paper has been checked so far. Even the first meeting of moderators and chief moderators on divisional level is pending. This clearly suggests that the results of the most important examination will be delayed. It’s practically impossible to work more and recover the 10 days already lost. The delay in result will ultimately affect the admission process of graduate courses,” said a senior board official while speaking to TOI. 
 
 However, board officials are hopeful that a solution will come up by Monday. Generally, HSC results are declared within 90 days after the last paper of the examination. 
 
 Secretary of Maharashtra State Junior College Teachers Association Sanjay Shinde said, “The education minister has declared that the state government will accept some of our demands. But, we need a written assurance,” he said. 
 
 There are more than 72,000 junior college lecturers who have to evaluate and re-evaluate nearly 65 lakh answer sheets of more than 15 lakh students. 
 
 For this, they will get less than 40 days as HSC results are expected to be declared by June 5. T
 
 The board has to receive the rolls of the evaluation well in advance to make the results available online and also prepare marks lists.
 
 
