GURUGRAM: Homebuyers of   Express Greens housing project held a   in front of the real estate giant’s Gurugram office on Saturday, seeking clarity on the fate of their homes after the Supreme Court’s judgment in the  .

 Nearly 200 homebuyers reached the developer’s office in Cyber City around 11 am and demanded that DLF clarify its stand in the case and whether it will complete the construction of the project in Manesar, now that the court has ordered transfer of the land’s ownership has from private builders to two state government agencies — HSIIDC and Huda.
 
 They also demanded compensation for the seven-year delay in the delivery of the project. The project is being developed by DLF on a parcel of land acquired during the Manesar land scam from ABW, another builder. The project has over 1,200 units.
 
 “Even though the SC has observed that the homebuyers’ interest must be safegu-arded, there is no clarity on the way forward and even a week after the judgment, the developer has barely communicated with us on the matter or returned our calls,” said Jatin Dua, a homebuyer. 
 
 “Our protest was to demand that DLF must complete the pending work at the construction site as they have taken the full price of the homes from the buyers,” he added.
 
 The   had last week ruled that in cases where the projects are nearing completion, the flats will be handed over on sale terms and conditions agreed upon earlier. And as far as the land was concerned, it vests with the HSIIDC or Huda, and the buyers have to submit their claims with the agencies within one month from the order date. “It is only after the developer clarifies its stand that we can submit our claims. And we do not have much time given the court’s deadline. If we miss the deadline, our lifelong dream of owning a house would be shattered,” said Neena Gaur, another homebuyer.
 
 The apex court, in its judgment, has also allowed for re-allotment of the land to the developers on the payment of charges to be decided by HSIIDC . “All we are asking for is some clarity on the fate of our homes,” said 60-year-old Sushil Arya, who invested his life savings in the project.
 
 A DLF spokesperson said, “The SC has delivered its judgement. Terms and condition of allotment of apartment owners are fully protected. All the customers will get their apartments as promised.”
 
 Asked if DLF was considering getting the land re-allotted by HSIIDC, the spokesperson said the realtor’s lawyers “are still interpreting the judgment”.
 
 
