NEW DELHI: The peak   period is almost over in north India and no major hill station in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand has yet received a single spell of snow. January has been almost totally dry across the region so far, raising concern over Himachal's apple crop and water availability in the summer if the trend continues. 

 Uttarakhand has 100% rain deficit in January so far, while in Himachal Pradesh it is more than 99%. The northern plains too have had no rain during the month, which is a major reason for the mild winter so far. And, the situation is unlikely to change in at least the next five-six days, says the Met office.
 
  
  
 
 Much of the previous month has also been dry. In fact, just one major wet spell has hit north India this winter. That came around December 11-12, when most parts of the plains got rain while the higher reaches of the Himalayas had snowfall. For the rest of December, rain/snow remained confined to Jammu and Kashmir and a few places in the higher Himalayas.
 
 "This winter, the position of   (WDs) coming into north India has been more northerly than usual. These have mainly affected northern J&K, leaving almost no impact on the rest of the region. Most of the WDs have also been feeble," said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD's Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. 
 
 WDs, which are waves of cold, moist winds coming in from southern Europe and west Asia, are the only source of wet weather in winter across north India. WDs also regulate the weather during the season, bringing in cold spells in their wake.
 
 The winter though is far from over and there's hope yet of snowfall and rain in the latter half of the season, Met officials said. 
 
 "Shimla hasn't recorded any snow this winter. In January, it hasn't even rained so far. If the dry weather continues through the month, it would be the first time in 11 years that Himachal's capital will go snowless in January. However, there appears to be a chance of rain/snow around January 24, but it's too early to predict with confidence," said Manmohan Singh, head of Shimla's Met office.
 
 The official said there was growing concern over the impact of the dry weather on the state's apple production, as the minimum number of chilling hours required for a good output has not been met so far.
 
 Lack of winter snow and rain also impacts other crops in the hill states besides affecting water availability in the summer. "Low snowfall accelerates melting of glaciers. In low snowfall years, Himalayan rivers have less water in summer which impacts irrigation in downstream states such as Punjab and Haryana while hitting hydro-power production," Singh said.
 
 "There has been no snow activity yet in Uttarakhand this month due to absence of any strong WD," said Bikram Singh, director of the regional Met centre in Dehradun. Mukteshwar, where the sole IMD snow gauge in the state is located, is yet to record any activity this winter.
 
 Mallika Virde, environmental activist and sarpanch of a van panchayat near Munsiyari, a town at the base of the Panchachuli peaks in Pithoragarh district, said the town received just one snow spell this winter. "That was on December 12. Usually, by now we get at least three rounds of snowfall."
 
 While it can snow in the hills till early April, Virde said late-season snowfall doesn't have a lasting effect, usually melting away quickly and even raising the threat of flooding in some areas.
 
