Coimbatore: It has been 11 years now, but Shanthi vividly remembers the day that changed the course of her life. She had stepped inside her house in Coimbatore from work from a photocopy shop to witness a quarrel between her father and co-brother. She was confused as quarrels were very unusual in her house. But, the worse was yet to happen. The moment her brother saw Shanthi, he gave her a tight slap on the face and followed it with further blows. 

 She immediately realised what the issue was—the family had come to know about her love affair with M Ilavenil, a dalit. “I told my brother that he has no right to beat me.”
 
 What followed was even more shocking for Shanthi, who was 22 years old then. Her father, a government clerk, started beating her. 
 
 “I was his pet. He had never beaten me,” says Shanthi. She was stopped from going to work and was locked inside her relative’s house at Podanur for the next one month, beaten almost everyday and harassed by family and relatives. That was the price Shanthi, an OBC Mudaliar, had to pay for falling in love with Ilavenil from the Arunthathiyar community, who are at the bottom of the social pyramid—often discriminated even by other dalits—who were up in the hierarchy.
 
 But, Shanthi was willing to pay that price and more. A month later, she managed to escape from the relative’s house and married Ilavenil. Now, she is a happy mother of two children. Though Shanthi’s mother accepted their love, her father Rangasamy and paternal relatives have completely shunned her.
 
 “When my father found out that my mother had started visiting me to see my sons, he sent her out too,” Shanthi says. Couple for more than three decades, her parents are separated for eight years now.
 
 “For the last eight years, my mother has been living with us in Vadavalli. My father is living alone in Gudalur in the Nilgiris. He has not once visited me or my mother,” Shanthi says.
 
 Coimbatore is known for its educational institutions and entrepreneurial spirit of people. But, behind the glossy façade of an industrialised region, lies a murky world of caste discrimination.
 
 The region has its own share of caste atrocities, vehement opposition to inter-caste marriages and honour killings. Especially Arunthathiyars, who form large a chunk among the dalits in western Tamil Nadu bear the brunt as they lack muscle, money or political power unlike Pallars or Parayars, the dalits in the southern and northern Tamil Nadu. 
 
 Caste is so deep-rooted that a few years ago, an outfit of Gounders, the dominant OBC group in western Tamil Nadu, even called for concerted efforts to stop inter-caste marriages.
 
 Ilavenil, a small building contractor, says that the days running up to his marriage were the most harrowing in his life. “I used to visit the photocopy shop where Shanthi was working and it was love at first sight. One day, I expressed my feelings for her and she accepted. When I got to know her caste, I was a little apprehensive, but was not scared,’’ Ilavenil, now 37, says.
 
 But, he was worried when she went incommunicado. When he went to her house, he was chased away. Ilavenil informed his friends, who also joined the search. All along, he was receiving intimidating calls and messages from Shanthi’s relatives. “One day, I got a call from her after she managed to flee from her relative’s house. We immediately got married,” Ilavenil says.
 
 There were attempts to take Shanthi back, but members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, a rationalist outfit, stood behind the couple.
 
 Shanthi’s mother Pushpa says her attempts to pacify her husband went in vain. His relatives have also boycotted her. “But, after all these years, I have realised that even we couldn’t have found a better husband for my daughter than Ilavenil,” says a beaming Pushpa.
 
 
