Mumbai: Less than two weeks ago, Committee of Administrators (CoA) head Vinod Rai spoke about BCCI’s plan to send close to “seven Test specialists” to England in June to play in the county circuit. The decision, he said, was in line with the plan to help ‘Test specialists’ gain enough practice in English conditions ahead of India’s five-Test series there the following month.

 
 
 
 While the move may have left cricketers delighted, Rai’s decision to speak about it on record way ahead of BCCI’s bilateral rights E-auction on Tuesday has put potential broadcasters on the back foot.
 
 Industry experts say: “How can   expect broadcasters to come to the bid table with a positive frame of mind, knowing that their rights period starting 2018 will begin with a second-string Indian team taking on Test debutants Afghanistan”?
 
 BCCI’s decision to not call for bids in buckets – as in the case with the three different packages on offer – is a question that will continue to linger in time to come.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, the industry will see Star India Pvt Ltd and   Pictures Network (SPN) clashing with each other. The India rights on sale this time are for the 102 matches across all formats, and bidders in contention (on paper) are: Star, Sony,  ,  ,   and Yupp TV.
 
 However, TOI has reliably learnt that social media giant Facebook may have already entered into a pre-bid agreement with one of the two major broadcasters and will not participate separately. Content provider Yupp TV is also expected to be part of this arrangement. Internet giants Google, meanwhile, could bid for digital rights alone post a backend agreement with a mobile network company.
 
 It could not be ascertained if Jio are looking to make a direct bid or waiting to get into a post-deal agreement with the winning bidder.
 
 Therefore, Tuesday’s battle essentially remains between Star and Sony, except that this one time, the latter will remain in a position to leverage its spending better than its fiercest rival. In the IPL rights auction last year, Star spent Rs 16,347 cr to win the rights, and while they remain much inclined to pocket the bilateral rights too, the broadcast giants do find themselves left with a tight budget.
 
 Sony, on the other hand, has a lot more at stake and in hand. Having not spent a dime on IPL, the former IPL rights holders have adequate cash reserves alongside an impending worry that should they not win the BCCI rights, they run the risk of losing out on serious space to Star (sitting on IPL & ICC rights) in a very competitive cricket rights industry.
 
 There’s a blanket reserve price for all matches across formats over the next five years. So, if the winning bid is, let’s say, Rs 65 cr per game, it’s the same for Tests, ODIs and T20Is, regardless of the opposition. The rights-holder will pay Rs 65 cr for a match against Australia and the same for a match against Afghanistan.
 
 In line with that, the question will always remain – Tuesday’s bidding notwithstanding – if BCCI could’ve fetched better value in creating separate rights buckets for matches against top teams and against minnows, especially with ICC’s new league championships coming up next.
 
 
