It is quite hard to pinpoint exactly when the narrative of   discussions turned. But that it has turned significantly is no doubt at all.

 Initially, much of these discussions revolved around why women need more opportunities and less barriers. This was for the sake of the women themselves. But now, gender equality has also become a strategic imperative. Countries and companies alike are coming to the realisation that without truly empowering women, they can never realise their full growth potential.
 
  (IMF) chief   recently declared that if India’s women participate in the workforce as much as men, its   could expand by 27%. Lagarde was part of the all women co-chairs of the   ( ).
 
  chairperson Sangita Jindal wrote in a recent column, “Women are now essential to the bottom line. That alone is why Indian organisations need to be proactive in employing more women and promoting — or holding on to — the ones they already have to positions of leadership.” 
 
 It is in this context of nation building that   will unveil the   this Friday. The day-long thinktank cum extravaganza is designed to collaboratively create an urgent, sustainable and national culture of empowering India’s half a billion women.
 
 About 50 speakers — including  , Andrea Jung, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Kristina Jullum Hagen, Fawzia Koofi, M Damodaran, Rajan Anandan, Shobana Kamineni, Annette Dixon, Ekta Kapoor and Alankrita Shrivastava — will discuss ways to empower India’s women along with an audience of over 350 men and women.
 
 Cherie Blair, founder of the Cherie Blair foundation and wife of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, said, “Achieving gender equality in India would have a larger economic impact here than in any other region in the world.” She is one of the two inaugural speakers at the ET Women’s Forum. “India’s low level of female workforce participation can be reversed if more Indian women are encouraged to take up entrepreneurship,” she added.
 
 About a dozen talks and key panels in the fields of politics, entrepreneurship, management, professions, workforce, industry, entertainment and sports will brainstorm ways to empower women to take their rightful place in all walks of life. Many initiatives are already under way. The government is doing some — launching the   and  . It has also made it mandatory to provide a 26-week maternity leave.
 
 The ET Women’s Forum hopes to seed and water many more new ideas and conversations around facilitating greater participation and reducing gender inequality in every sphere of life, work and play.
 
 
