BHOPAL: Barely through with examining a patient in a clinic at platform No.1 of  , Dr   was looking at prescription. Around the same time, he gets a call from station superintendent informing about an unwell passenger, who was to reach station.

 He casts a glance at watch, reaches for stethoscope, puts it around neck and rushes out, towards the platform with a tray of medicines to attend the ailing passenger.
 
 
 By the time, the 76-year-old doctor reached the platform and searched for the passenger in a coach, he was almost out of breath. But there was no time to worry about that. He quickly attended the passenger facing dehydration and gave him medicines. After 15 minutes or so, he returned to his clinic.
 
 The scene with variation gets repeated at least 10 times every day at the station, when a passenger gets sick during travel and calls up Bhopal station for medical help. But to attend passengers in need of medical aid at railway station, which roughly sees 50,000 footfall every day, there is only one aged doctor in one shift. Surely a stupendous task for a doctor, any which way you look at it.
 
 The problem doesn’t end here for the doctor ever since the launch of free service a week ago. Just three days ago, when he had returned to his clinic after attending a patient, he found his BP machine missing. When he informed about it to a railway official, he was asked to lock his door. Talking to TOI, Dr Khan said, “After the bitter experience, I kept the new BP instrument at a place where no one can see it and brought a lock from home and now I lock the clinic whenever I go to attend a patient on train.”
 
 He said as the service is free, more than passengers, locals come to the clinic for medical assistance. To provide medical assistance, we need patient’s PNR number and if patients provide it, we diagnose and give them medicine. If not, we politely express our inability to do so,” he said.
 
 Khan, who had retired around 16 years ago from critical care unit, said, “I had gone to hospital for daughter’s recruitment when hospital staff asked me to join them and take the duty at station. I handled a similar duty at   station 20 years ago.”
 
 He says, “At present I am able to handle some 10 patients, but I will need some junior doctors or interns in case of more patients at clinic or would not be able to handle all at station nor to ones who are travelling and needs in-train support.” He said, “I will ask hospital to provide extra doctors to station for proper functioning.”
 
 As for facilities, he said, “At present, we can only provide support to people who are suffering from common cold, dehydration, suntroke, headache and fever. For further assistance, patients are referred to railway or nearby hospitals.”
 
