MUMBAI: The Prakash Ambedkar-led Bharip-Bahujan Maha Sangh is planning to up the ante if the state fails to arrest   and  , the two right-wing radicals accused by Ambedkar of fomenting trouble at   on January 1, within a week.

 Ambedkar has made it clear to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis that Bhide's and Ekbote’s arrest was his party’s chief demand. Ambedkar held talks with the CM on January 3, a day after the 'bandh' to condemn the Koregaon Bhima clash.
 
 “We will have to decide our next course of action if the Maharashtra government fails to arrest the two Hindutva rabble-rousers within a week,” said J V Pawar, the party’s general secretary on Sunday. The demand is seen as Ambedkar’s pressure tactic to mobilise Dalits. Sources in the   said the CM may find it tough to send Bhide and Ekbote to prison, given the duo’s links with the saffron parivaar. “The police have registered a case against the two. Yet, there are no arrests. This is shocking,” said Pawar. Last week, the Shikarpur police, under the jurisdiction of Pune rural, registered an offence against Bhide and Ekbote following a complaint filed by a 55-year old Shirur woman.
 
 The Maharashtra BJP unit is still recovering from the shock of Bhima Koregaon. Many think the party should get out of Hindutva mode and emulate the example of stalwarts like Y B Chavan, Vasantrao Patil and Sharad Pawar who, they pointed out, struck a fine balance between communities. “They knew how to defuse communal tension as they had direct links with the rural heartland through a network of institutions. On the other hand, BJP is widely seen as an urban party,” said a BJP veteran on condition of anonymity. Citing Dalit-upper caste clashes in Marathwada over renaming of a university after Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar in the 1970s as a case in point, the BJP leader said, “Sharadrao-ji (Pawar) handled the situation with tact.”
 
 RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has struck a conciliatory note. Speaking at a function in Ujjain recently, Bhagwat, tacitly referring to the Dalit-upper caste dust-up in Maharashtra, reportedly underscored the need to maintain social harmony. 
 
 This could be a signal to the Fadnavis regime to pacify socially backward classes and Dalits. “We will have to shed our upper caste bias. BJP won in as many as 18 assembly constituencies, in Marathwada and Vidarbha, in the 2014 elections because of support from Dalits, and scheduled castes and scheduled tribes,” said a BJP MLA. 
 
 J V Pawar said Fadnavis can't “do much” to retrieve his government's reputation following the Koregaon Bhima crisis. Pawar dared Union minister of state for social welfare Ramdas Athavale to step down from the Modi government. 
 
 
