Ludhiana: Charging Value Added Tax (VAT) on a discounted product has cost a clothing store deary as the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has imposed a fine of Rs 4,000 on it for overcharging Rs 18.08 from a Chandigarh resident. Of the fine, the forum — comprising president GK Dhir, and member Vinod Gulati — asked Reebok Basic Clothing Private Limited in Silver Arc Mall, to pay Rs 2,000 as compensation for mental harassment and agony, while it will also have to pay an equal amount as litigation charges to customer Gagandeep Singh of Sector 23-C in Chandigarh.

 The complainant, in his complaint to the forum, said he had purchased two products from the showroom for Rs 317 on 25 June 2017. The maximum retail price (MRP) of each product was Rs 249, inclusive of all taxes. As there was a discount of 40%, the price of the products came down to Rs 298.80. But the shop charged VAT at the rate of 6.05% on the amount of discounted price. The complainant alleged that charging VAT on a discounted product was unfair trade practice, and so he sought a refund of the excess amount charged (Rs 18.08), besides compensation of Rs 15,000 for mental harassment and agony, and Rs 5,000 as litigation expenses.
 
 The respondent said the complainant had accepted the terms and conditions by paying the amount without any protest. “The complainant is trying to wriggle out of the contract of purchase by filing a complaint with an intention to harass us. A reasonable person must have understood the bargain price to be the discounted price, along with applicable VAT thereon. On such products which are sold at a discount in the market, VAT is always charged on the discounted price,” claimed the respondent, in a written reply.
 
 The forum observed that the practice of charging VAT on discounted MRP (inclusive of all taxes) has been deprecated by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi. “This practice of charging VAT was an unfair trade practice,” observed the forum, which directed that the extra amount charged be refunded at 6% interest per annum from the date of purchase, besides asking it the clothing store to pay compensation and litigation expenses.
 
 
