
 KOLKATA: An upcoming television actor, Moumita   (23), was found hanging from the ceiling of her flat at Regent Park in   on Friday night. Police found a suicide note near her body which stated she was suffering from depression after failing to bag leading roles in daily soaps.
 
 
 According to police, Saha — who hailed from Kajidanga in Bandel — was living in Kolkata alone for the last two years. Around noon on Friday, her family members called her mobile number repeatedly but received no answer. Around 8pm, they informed her landlord, who called up the neighbours to check up on her. When they broke open the door, they found her hanging with the help ofa dupatta. The police arrived at the spot around 9.40pm and recovered her suicide note: “I could not be an actor. I could not fulfil anyone’s dream.”
 
 The Regent Park police lodged a case of unnatural death and started investigating the matter. They suspect Saha was under pressure to emerge as a successful actor. “We’ll speak to her family to ascertain if someone had pressurised her. No one has lodged a complaint of suicide abetment so far. We’ll wait for the post-mortem report before declaring the death a suicide,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Police said the actor, who began her career with the serial ‘Swapno Udan’, had spoken normally to her co-actor till Holi. “No one suspected anything amiss till then. Saha last posted on Facebook on January 18, though she was quite active on the social media platform. The cops said they are looking at Saha’s call details to ascertain what may have forced her to take such a decision.
 
 Early last year, popular Bengali actor Disha Ganguly — who appeared in shows like ‘Kanakanjali’ and ‘Tumi Ashbe Bole’ — committed suicide. At least three young women in   ended their lives since 2015.
 
 Psychiatrist   said that India now accounts for 17.5% of the total suicides in the world. “The most recurring reason behind teens and youths committing suicide is the unfulfilled economic and social mobility so much desired by them,” he said.
 
