NEW DELHI: In the wake of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, the government had launched a coastal security scheme for augmentation of infrastructure in nine states and four Union Territories. A review carried out by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has raised concerns as majority of the projects are far behind schedule and less than half of the allocated funds have been used. 

  As a test check, the auditor reviewed implementation of the coastal security scheme in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The results were surprising. The island administration was sanctioned Rs 32 crore of which only Rs 14 crore has been utilised so far. 
 
 In November 2010, the home ministry had sanctioned funds for purchase of 10 large vessels and 23 rigid inflatable boats (RIB) to be procured at a cost of Rs 302 crore. These vessels were required for surveillance along the coastline and were to be stationed at 10 strategic locations where   (MOCs) were to be set up.
 
  However, the CAG said tender enquiries were floated for these boats only in June 2016, more than five years after the scheme was approved. The tenders were finalised in December 2017. "Thus, a critical component of coastal security scheme has been delayed for more than six years after the approval. The objective of strengthening vigilance at strategic locations through regular patrolling has yet to be achieved," the CAG said in its report tabled in Parliament on Thursday. 
 
  Under the scheme, 10 MOCs were to be set up as "nerve centres" to undertake patrolling, raids and surveillance in remote and scattered islands. As per the MHA directive, 'preparatory works' for the MOCs were to be completed by March 2011. 
 
  As of 2017, only one out of the 10 planned MOCs could be operationalised in Kadamtala. While four cases are currently at the tendering stage, in three others, the allotment of land and administrative approval is yet to be obtained. As part of the project, 10 new jetties were to be built for berthing and maintenance of boats/interceptor boats at strategic locations. The island administration started preparatory work for construction of new jetties only in 2016 after it discovered that funds remained unutilised for a long time. 
 
 
