PATIALA: The manufacturing unit of the   saline section in   has been shut down with the government not renewing its license. 

 This is likely to impose a burden on patients with limited means. So far, glucose was being supplied free of cost to patients, who will have to pay for it now. 
 
 The state government took the decision on the grounds that the unit needed to be modernised as most of the manufacturing here is done manually. However, health officials do not have a clear idea if a proposal has been made and sent to the state government to modernise the facility and keep it running. 
 
 The glucose unit here produced 150 bottles per day and more than 4,000 bottles per month. An official said on condition of anonymity that production could have been increased had the hospital provided sufficient staff. 
 
 A glucose bottle from a private chemist costs around Rs 40 while production cost of a bottle from the unit was hardly Rs 16 per bottle. 
 
 Health officials said recently, a committee was formed under the supervision of the medical superintendent to ascertain if glucose production was safe. They said the committee, in its recommendation, said it was not. 
 
 Medical superintendent B S Brar said, “The unit had been running for the last around 50 years and was producing glucose manually, which is unsafe. There were several deficiencies found in this centre. Modern machines were needed to produce glucose bottles in a hygienic way. The government had not renewed the license of this glucose section on the grounds that it needs to be modernised with new machines for safe production. 
 
 It is better not to provide instead of providing unsafe glucose.”
 
 When asked if there are plans to rejuvenate the centre, he said, “We have made a proposal and will urge the government to mordernise the centre. I am not sure about the assessment of the amount required to update the centre with modern techniques. We have asked the health corporation to provide us a good stock of these glucose bottles so that we can provide them to poor patients. Even production of around 4,000 bottles was not enough as the demand is much greater.”
 
 
