KOLKATA: Sandwiched between two prominent south  , a ramshackle ground-floor office—apparently a polyclinic—has been acting as a contact address for “aggrieved” patient families, seeking discounts on hospital bills. Managed and run by a union leader, accused of carrying out rampages at hospitals in the past, the office is frequented by musclemen who broker deals with hospitals, often forcing the latter to forego a major portion of bills.

 One of the two nearby hospitals claimed they had lost over Rs 1 crore over the past year, owing to   struck at the  . Some patients’ families confessed to having sought help at the address.
 
 It is an open secret that patients’ families rush to the so-called  , whenever they run out of funds or realize that the bill amount is too steep for them, according to an official of a hospital. “The same faces that stream in and out of that office join the ransacking. But what is more striking is that they lead the negotiations whenever there is an issue with the bill. Whenever we ask them if they are related to the patient, they tell us they are friends. The same very people claim to be neighbours of another patient the next day. At other times, they claim to be representatives of a social work organization trying to help needy patients. But essentially, they try and fix a deal, seeking to lessen the bill amount,” the official said.
 
  
 Last week, a patient at one of the hospitals was asked to undergo dialysis. Her family was apprised of the cost and told the amount was necessary to save her life. But the family did not respond, forcing the hospital to start dialysis. A week later, the group from the neighbourhood met the doctor and said they could not pay for the dialysis and wanted the patient to be discharged. The hospital was forced to forego more than Rs 1lakh.
 
 TOI visited the polyclinic on Wednesday afternoon to find it empty. The signboard claimed it provided “medical services”, but didn’t specify what. The man at the reception said it served as a polyclinic, where doctors treated patients. But he refused to either name the doctors or the working hours.
 
 A south Kolkata resident whose father was admitted to a cardiac hospital in the area said he had been asked to contact a “social worker” at the polyclinic when he had trouble with the bill. “I was seeing details of the bill at the reception when a man standing nearby offered to help. He said he can ‘fix’ a deal that can save me more than half the amount. I went to that clinic and was asked to pay one-fourth the amount they will get discounted. They told me they would use force and threaten the hospital staff if necessary. But I turned their offer down,” he said.
 
 Some patients’ families had even threatened hospital staff to “get people” from the address to teach them a lesson, said the official.
 
 
