COIMBATORE: Those looking forward to making sweet sakkarai pongal on the occasion of the Pongal festival may have to abandon their plans as the inflow of jaggery into the city markets has come down.

 According to sugarcane farmers and market experts, drought in the last two farming seasons affected the production of sugarcane and subsequently jaggery production.
 
 Many farmers have stopped cultivating sugarcane as it is a water-intensive crop, said  , a farmer from   in the city. “The cost of cultivating sugarcane is high. We can’t earn even half of what we spend for it,” he told TOI.
 
 As a result, many sugarcane farmers in the region have moved on to banana cultivation. “Earlier, almost all farmers in Kuniyamuthur cultivated sugarcane. Now, I am one of the very few sugarcane farmers here,” Diraviyam said.
 
 Wholesale jaggery traders in the city said the trading volume has come down this Pongal. “Usually, we trade around 25,000 sacks of jaggery in the festival season. But, this year, the volume has come down to around 18,000 bags,” said  , who runs a wholesale jaggery shop on Rangai Gowder Street.
 
 However, jaggery prices have not seen any increase till now. “Pure jaggery is sold for Rs 70 a kilogram, while second grade jaggery is available at Rs 50,” said R Muthusamy, another jaggery trader.
 
 Several farmers, who used to cultivate sugarcane, are now raising crops such as maize, said a researcher at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.
 
 An official in the agriculture department said area under sugarcane cultivation in Coimbatore has come down by less than half in the last six years. “The total sugarcane cultivation area in the city was around 1,200 hectares. But, this year, it has come down to around 500 hectares,” he said.
 
 Experts added that this has been the trend all across Tamil Nadu. Director of   Bakshi Ram said the area of sugarcane cultivation across the state has decreased significantly. “Earlier, sugarcane used to be cultivated on around 3.5lakh hectares in Tamil Nadu. Today, it has decreased to around 2lakh hectares, mainly due to the consecutive drought in the last two years,” he said.
 
 
