The episode of   begins with   worrying about the money asked by the gambler. She worries thinking of his demands. The man calls her up on her landline and says that she better switch on her cell phone else he will harass her. Alia decides to talk to   but get more tensed after seeing Raman scold Romi for being with Ishita. Raman tells everyone that they can leave the house if they want to stay in touch with Ishita. Alia further goes and meets the gambler. She on between meets Ishita but Ishita is tensed about Raman's marriage proposal. She peeps into the   house on seeing a girl come to meet Raman. Param catches her in the act and asks her to sign the divorce papers. Alia asks her to call her once she's free. Raman and the lady talk about their likings and dislikings. Further the lady comes across to be extremely demanding and Raman asks her to leave the house. Mrs Bhalla gets annoyed at Simmi for a bad proposal. The lady meets   down and thanks him for saving her life. She says that Raman was exactly as he had described about him, that he was extremely rude and short tempered. Meanwhile,   calls Ishita and asks about Alia's whereabouts. Ishita says she does not know where Alia is. Suddenly Ishita remembers how Alia wanted to talk to her something important while going out but she couldn't due to Raman's tension. She called up Alia and Alia sighs of relief talking to Ishita. She tells how the gambler has been blackmailing her for more money. Ishita scolds Alia for going to meet him alone. She asks to send her the address. Alia asks Ishita to come to the address as soon as possible. Ishita rushes to the destination. Bala thinks of telling Ishita how he ruined Raman's proposal but Ishita rushes to the location to help Alia. The man asks Alia for money. When she gives it to him, he pulls her inside the house and locks the door. Alia gets scared. He counts the money and says that it is extremely less and tries to molest Alia. She smashes a bottle of alcohol on his head and tries to run away but in vain. The man takes out a gun and points towards Alia and asks her to sign the papers. the paper state that all of Adi's shares have been transferred to the gambler's name. Alia refuses to do so. In the scuffle between the gambler and Alia, Alia by mistake shoots down the gambler. Ishita hears. the gunshot and gets scared. For more updates, leep watching this space.

 
 
