Last week, a bunch of Mumbaikars attended an open mic gathering close to Mumbai. While it offered the usual elements — peppy music, dance, poetry, some rapping, and a scenic venue for good measure, it also had another ingredient. The session was cloaked in secrecy. That’s right, the all-night fun gathering was a ‘secret’ rendezvous that left guests guessing about its location until the last minute. If you chanced upon a clue towards it, you had to, as they say, hold your silence. This innovative trend seems to be just what a stressed-out city like Mumbai needs. Here’s more on the surprise soiree…

 
 
 A simple invitation to a secret all-night music and poetry open mic under the stars was put up on Facebook and Instagram two weeks ago, it included a warm campsite and bonfire. Needless to add, the hush-hush invitation went viral. Just a night before the event, the invitees received an email with a Google location of the open mic. After being added to a common chat group to facilitate things, the group was taken to the venue in a single bus.
 The open mic took off by 9 pm and 11.30 pm, it was a jamboree with singers and impromptu verses making for the action. Organiser   says that surprise was the key element to such events. “The secrecy that shrouded everything added to the do. It shows that Mumbaikars definitely want something different when it comes to recreation,” he says. He also feels that the gathering was actually opposite to the usual loud and garish fun that you might have at a discotheque. “We call it an   of sorts. It did not have the loud headbanging stuff with harsh lights and sounds. But it was a session where folks sat around, enjoyed the music, bonded over a guitar session or poetry reading; people even felt free to get up and perform what they liked,” informs Awasthi.
 
 
 
 The aim was to also get creative-minded folk to know each other in a relaxed gathering. “You’ll be surprised at how many bathroom singers and poets-in-the making the city has,” says organiser  , adding, “We also had story-telling, which was a big art of the night. People shared travel stories, their work experiences, etc. It was like a big coffee shop chat under the stars.” 
 
  
  
 Andheri-based entrepreneur Nidhi Shah found the idea exciting. “While music and camping anyway offer a comforting break, for someone like me who works late hours into the night, this was such an escape. The ice was broken once we all met in the bus; it was fun after that.”
 Navi Mumbai based lecturer,  , recited one of her poems there. “I’m a poet, travel-junkie and story-teller, all in one. And the moonlight made it beautiful for me to share my works,” she smiles, adding, “It also revived school campsite fun. Keeping the location secret was a good idea as it made for a great surprise.” 
 For alternate educator  , the impromptu performances were the highlight of the night. “So many people went up on the mic, unscheduled. Considering that I don’t have a good voice, looking at them made me feel that I could also sing someday. The experience leaves you with a good feeling and makes you confident."
 
