You may have an opportunity to rate your boss as part of an upward appraisal or a  . In the latter, you rate your boss, colleagues and direct reports and they all rate you back, giving a complete rating picture for every employee.   is the trickiest. How do you remain fair and accurate? Will it have a negative impact on your  ? Here is what you can consider while rating your boss.

 
 
 INTENTION: The exercise works best if you operate from the intent that you are willing to help your boss be more effective and successful. This works well for rating others too. Next, consider what is your employer's intent. Is this a annual exercise that consolidates ratings and shares a summary with the individual for his improvement? If yes, it matches your intent. However, if your firm uses this to affect your boss's compensation or promotion, then rate your boss not for improvement but by benchmarking him against other managers. If it is a onetime activity conducted to change policies and processes, then rate from a perspective of how the firm can better empower your boss.
 
 TRUST: Honour the professional or personal trust reposed in you. Abused trust inevitably bounces back and harms one's career. Do you and your manager trust each other professionally and personally? Does your organisation rely on you to understand your manager? Recognise that the opportunity to rate your boss is a reinforcement of trust. It is neither a chance to give a poor rating because of last week's disagreement nor an invitation to gift undeserved high rating hoping for a promotion as a return gift. Also avoid the trap of group-think. If a couple of members in the team are vocal and have a strong positive or negative opinion it may influence you and the group leading to a copy-cat rating by everyone, which is unfair and incorrect.
 
 RELATIONSHIP: Be sensitive about your relationship with your boss. Unless the rating is anonymous, your boss will ultimately have access to your rating, which in turn may impact your relationship. In such a situation, choose to minimise and moderate negative opinions that you share. Similarly, if you already have a bad relationship with your boss then its best to avoid face-to-face feedback with him or in a public forum like a team feedback with HR.
 
 SOLICITED VS UNSOLICITED: Has your rating been formally solicited? If yes, then it is part of company policy. There is likely to be an appraisal form with various questions asking you to rate your boss on a scale with or without an opportunity to provide feedback. The form may be signed or anonymous. A tougher situation arises when your manager's superior calls for feedback in person or in presence of the team. Here your rating and feedback is also seen as a reflection of your professionalism. Unsolicited rating is when you want to give feedback to your boss even though she has not asked for it. As a rule, avoid that urge. In rare situations where the trust is high, then give feedback regularly after establishing a process and context of situation and project.
 
 
 
 PROCESS EXPERT: Apart from questions in the rating form, evaluate your manager on five parameters. Firstly, does he follow company processes with respect to business and people? Justify your rating with examples framed in a positive tone. For instance, write 'Meetings can be planned in advance for better outcomes', instead of 'Productive time wasted in pointless meetings'.
 
 DIRECTION GIVER: A manager's primary role is to set measurable goals and deadlines for the team. Did you know your targets? Did your boss communicate her expectations from you?
 
 FEEDBACK MIRROR: After setting targets, your boss establishes a feedback loop for you and the team, to make sure everyone is aligned to the goal. This means you receive regular feedback on how you are doing. This is a measure of your boss's responsiveness and you know exactly where you stand.
 
 PROJECT ACCELERATOR: Your manager is responsible for making sure the team progresses rapidly. Does your boss do his bit to speed up work? Here easy accessibility to your manager is important so that you can reach out instantly for serious problems and motivational support.
 
 GOAL SCORER: Both the firm and you prefer to work and learn with a successful manager. What were the outcomes your boss achieved in the past year? Does she have problem solving skills?
 
 
