NEW DELHI: A number of   are set to be   over the next   — some of them from the   — as the   starts work on the   of  . The complete process is expected to take close to three years with the next six to seven months taken up by just the demolition work.

 Delhi International Airport Limited, the airport operator, said boundary walls had already been erected around the demolition sites and all necessary precautions were being taken so that no cons truction work took place in the next six months. “The process will start within a couple of weeks. The first phase of demolition will be completed within six to seven months after which the building process can commence,” a DIAL spokesperson said.
 
 
  
 In the first phase, the entire Terminal 1A, the Old Udaan Bhawan, the DGCA building and the old tower at the T1 apron area will be demolished. Officials said while some of these buildings were from the pre-Independence era, Terminal 1A was built a few decades ago. The expansion of Terminal 1 is part of Master Plan 2016, which will see its capacity double from 2 crore passengers to 4 crore.
 
 According to the master plan, the capacity of T3 will increase from 3.4 crore to 4.5 crore, while a fourth runway will be constructed in 2021.
 
 DIAL said the use of “high-reach jaw-crushing technology” would ensure that the demolitions were carried out without any noise being generated. DIAL claims this is the first time such a technology is being used in any airport project in India. “The technology uses a machine designed for demolition of major construction work without requiring any deployment of labour at the site. The machine is designed with safety features like the falling object protective structures, counter-weight features, safety valves and the water spray system to control flying dust,” a DIAL spokesperson said.
 
 To expedite the process, DIAL has shifted the DGCA office to G5 building and will soon move the old apron control equipment to the premises.
 
 “Currently, DIAL’s technical team is working on rerouting the complex cables and pipelines in a bid to ensure that airport operations are not hampered during the demolition work,” an official said.
 
 While the work on T1 goes on, flyers will use T2 for certain flights after IndiGo and Spicejet shifted operations partially to T2. GoAir has shifted its entire operations to Terminal 2.
 
 
