CHENNAI: The journey of   from the rocky roads of a turbulent state to the highway of Indian football hasn’t been an easy one. Not only did they have to battle past their opponents on the field but had to overcome off-field hurdles as well. While they didn’t have the best of infrastructure in place — the team played its matches on the only astro-turf available and their training sessions were often disrupted by snow and rough weather — they also had to deal with volatile political situation.

 
 With most of the professional players keen to stay away from the valley, coach   — a key player of the legendary   side in the 1990s — had to make do with semi-professionals, who are mainly students and bank employees. And that makes the journey of the two-year-old club nothing short of a fairytale.
 
 Robertson says the beautiful game provides “an escape route” for his boys — majority of whom are Kashmiris — and they didn’t want this freedom to slip away easily. 
 
 “Initially, the boys would just sit in the dressing room gloomily. Forget smiling, they wouldn’t even talk to each other. I understood that they were extremely scared. So my first task was to create that fearless atmosphere and work on their mindset. I started joking and made them understand that football cannot be played with fear. I gave them the freedom to commit mistakes but also taught them how they can learn from those errors. It took almost two months to earn their trust. They started enjoying this freedom and it helped them in expressing themselves in a better way. Football became a way of their life and they showed character to sustain the hunger till the very end. They wanted to show what Kashmiri football is all about,” Robertson told TOI from Bengaluru on Thursday.
 
 The conflicts and curfews, though, hardly created a relaxed atmosphere and there were many occasions when the team had to cancel their training sessions. “Those were the times when we developed team spirit. We had to stay indoors and would be locked inside hotels. The players would be together and they would start enjoying each other’s company. It is also during this time that I understood that how disciplined my wards had to be in their personal lives. That discipline reflected in our game as only three players saw two yellow cards each in our 10 matches,” the former Scotland left-back said.
 
 While the story of the Real Kashmir players has been inspirational, the journey of Robertson has also been courageous. He took over the reins of Real Kashmir back in January 2017 when most of the Indian coaches didn’t want to travel to the valley. “I was coaching lower division clubs in the US and I was looking for a change when an offer from Real Kashmir came through. During my 16-month stint so far, I never felt scared. I often go for walks and barring a few times, there were never any issues. I am also planning to bring my family soon,” the 49-year-old said.
 
 During his playing days for Scottish club Aberdeen, Robertson trained under legendary coach Alex Ferguson. He said the former   coach influenced him in a lot of ways. “Ferguson’s detailed planning, commitment and single-minded approach helped in building characters. It strengthened players to handle criticism. He shaped my career. I am deeply influenced by his coaching methods and often employ them in my sessions,” said Robertson.
 
 The Scot has already started to plan ahead for the next season. “I hope to keep the core of the team intact and add more talented players. Football is Kashmir’s No. 1 sport and plays a very important role in their society. But the locals never get the opportunity to test their talent with the best Indian players. So Real Kashmir would give them that platform. So I hope to unearth some more talent before next season,” said Robertson.
 
