NEW DELHI: Former India captain   feels that while India's tour of South Africa has been a successful one, there's some scope of improvement especially in the middle-order which has failed to fire consistently.

 
 He is worried by the fact that barring captain   who has been in amazing form throughout the tour, none of the other batsmen in the middle-order has shown any sort of consistency.
 
 In his column for The Times of India, Srikkanth praised the team for the manner in which they bounced back in the third Test in Johannesburg to record a memorable win after losing the first two games of the three-match series. "Summing it up, I would term it is a successful tour for India in South Africa. If I was the captain, I would be pleased with the way the team bounced back in Johannesburg and never looked back," he wrote.
 
 He picked Kohli and the bowlers as the standout performers. The pace troika of Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah and   surprised everyone with the way they excelled in the bowling-friendly conditions. Following in their footsteps, the spinners then dazzled the home team in the ODIs to guide India to a historic 5-1 series win.
 
 "Overall, there are quite a few positives from this trip. Kohli has been amazing with the bat and in leading the troops from the front. The bowling unit has been exceptional. Pacers Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami have been on the ball throughout the Test series. The wrist spinners,   and   joined the party during the ODIs, baffling the hosts with their guile," he summed up the tour
 
 But then he touched upon two glaring loopholes in India's batting order saying they must be addressed quickly. "However, one of the key areas of concern is the consistency factor with the middle-order and to an extent the form of the opening batsmen in red-ball cricket. The first Test at Cape Town was in our pocket and we should have won it easily. The defeat was due to the batting debacle and it hurt us badly. The openers didn’t fire in all the Tests and it has to be addressed going forward," Srikkanth wrote.
 
 Elaborating further, the world cup winner observed that while the openers stepped up in limited-overs series following their failures in Tests, the middle order continues to be a worry. "While the openers turned things around in the shorter formats, the middle-order, apart from Kohli, has been very inconsistent across all formats. Yes, there have been a couple of sparkling performances here and there from a few middle-order batsmen. However, consistency is lacking and it is vital to have a solid middle-order, which is the backbone of any side. It’s a worrying sign and it has to be looked into so that we can notch up more victories abroad."
 
 Srikkanth believes India could have won the Test series but is happy with the way the tour has shaped up for India. "Things still look bright though and it’s a good sign for the Indian team heading into the overseas tours later this year."
 
 
