MUMBAI: Investigators are struggling to establish a link between a fight that broke out at the   in Aarey Colony’s   on Tuesday and the   of a 21-year-old guest,  , the son of a police inspector, even as the guests told them that he was not involved in the fight. The police are also trying to track down a few guests at the party who did not turn up for questioning.

 Atharva’s body was found near a lake, 500m from the party venue, on Wednesday. Youngsters who attended the party said Atharva stayed by the side of his female friend, whom he had accompanied to the bash, and did not get involved in the fight that broke out between two youths. CCTV footage confirms that he left the venue alone, was not immediately followed by anyone, and was not hurt till he decided to venture towards the lake. 
 
 A youngster who had attended the party said he had been invited by the brother of the birthday girl, whose father is a Marathi movie producer. “There was weed (marijuana) and LSD papers...I was also asked to get some. I reached bungalow No. 212 around midnight. Most of the guests were high,” he said. “The bungalow had a swimming pool, a lawn area and three rooms. For the next three to four hours, I stayed in the lawn area with a friend. Some of the guests had occupied the rooms and locked the doors. Later, a fight broke out between two youngsters. One of them had taken off his clothes and was roaming in the bungalow. The fight was getting violent which frightened me so I left,” he added. Atharva was last spotted by guests around 6-7am. He left on his own and did not return, said another guest. 
 
 The police said they have recovered eight CCTV footages—four from inside the gated community and four from the stretch outside. “Atharva was captured on CCTV till he went on an uneven path that led to the lake,” said a police officer. “A car washer claims he saw Atharva walk down from the lane housing the bungalows. His gait was odd. Later, a gardener spotted him lying near the lake for several hours on Tuesday. It was only on Wednesday when Atharva’s father came looking for him did the gardener realize that the boy was dead. He directed the father to his body.” 
 
 The post-mortem revealed that Atharva had suffered injuries to his chest, contusions on his ribs and lungs, and lacerations on his private parts. He had black eyes. “He is likely to have hurt himself while reaching the lake as the path was uneven and rocky. Injuries from the fall combined with injuries from being assaulted and lying under the sun with no immediate medical aid could have taken his life,” said the officer. Robbery has been ruled out as motive as his phone and money were untouched. The police, on Thursday, released all the youngsters at the party detained for questioning.
 
 
