Indore: Technical and innovative young brains will provide smart solutions to small scale industries for technological development. Micro Small and Medium Enterprises of the region prepare to collaborate with startups to use technical solutions and facilitate growth and productivity. 

 Association of Industries Madhya Pradesh ( ) secretary Yogesh Mehta said, “We are planning to work in collaboration with startups. This will be a win-win situation for both startups and industries. We will get new technology and startups will get financial assistance.”
 
 AIMP is in talks with some of the leading startups to provide smart technical solutions in order to increase productivity and minimize production loss and for solutions on operations management. 
 
 According to industry players, local resources will facilitate growth at economic rate as against getting expensive technocrats and skilled manpower from big cities. 
 
 In a recent meeting with AIMP members and startups, the association has decided to fund and facilitate two startups of the city. 
 
 Madhya Pradesh   under ministry of   consultant Kumar Vibhanshu said, “It’s difficult for MSME to grow without the help of technological advancement and here startups can step in to modify and upgrade them.”
 
 “Scope for development is immense for MSME but creativity and innovative ideas are required to smartly capture the market and startups can be a great support to industries, Vibhanshu said. 
 
 According to the MSME department, the industries will also facilitate entrepreneurship courses, incubation network and other related support to startups. 
 
 Mehta said, “Industries are planning for entrepreneurship courses for startups so that they can understand our needs. The courses taught at technical institutes are not upgraded as per our requirements.”
 
 A common incubation platform can also be provided to startups in collaboration with different industries where startups can operate at an economical cost. 
 
 Industry participants said the collaboration between industries and startups will boost even passive industries that failed to survive in lack of technology support. 
 
 
