TRICHY: This 45-year-old woman, through her small roadside eatery at  , has been satiating the taste-buds of food lovers in the city for almost two decades now. 

 Known for its delicious adai-aviyal and rava dosai, R Saraswathi’s eatery, Sri Maruti Tiffin centre has been serving more than 200 customers per day on an average.
 
 Started in the year 1999, the food stall rapidly rose to fame and became one of the most-sought food destinations in the locality, owing to its home-style cooking and no compromise on hygiene. “My father was in this business and I grew up watching him cook. And when my husband needed financial help, I decided that I would open the eatery on my own and earn well through it,” Saraswathi said.
 
 She stated that even before opening the eatery, she was clear that she wouldn’t try anything fancy but only stick to preparing food items that she’s known for. “I know I’m a good cook, but it doesn’t mean every item I prepare would be good. Hence I decided to focus predominantly on only four dishes -- ravai dosai, adai, idli and dosai -- and customers proved that variety is not the only thing they are after,” Saraswathi stated.
 
 Adai, which is provided along with aviyal, is the in-demand food item at the shop, while rava dosai is the second in the preference list of the customers. Both are served with sambar and two types of chutneys. “Most of the compliments I get from the customers are that the food tastes similar to how their mother would prepare – this is the one which gives me immense satisfaction,” she added ecstatically. 
 
 While adai and onion adai are priced at Rs 25 and Rs 35 respectively, rava dosai and special rava dosai cost Rs 30 and Rs 35 respectively. Though the shop is usually open from 6 pm to 11 pm every day, sometimes, it gets closed earlier due to the food getting over soon due to heavy demand. “For business’ sake, I could prepare more dough and increase the quantity, but it can’t be done without compromising on the quality which I would never allow,” claimed the Srirangam resident. 
 
 She also said that idli, which is available at Rs 5/ per piece, is a hit among children especially because podi is given as an accompaniment. Saraswathi said, “Even podi is prepared at my house. I sometimes feel I could earn even more if I sell podi packets alone because they in huge demand at my eatery.”
 
 Saraswathi’s son,  , has been taking care of the logistics at the eatery, while one cook and two waiters are there to assist the mother-son duo.
 
