There was a time when a restaurant meant something with a stylish sounding English name, with a menu full of variants of North Indian dishes or Chinese fried rice, noodles and chicken. Even the less fancy restaurants tried hard to make the ambience as ‘posh’ as possible; the more western, the better was the mantra. Also, teens and 20-somethings preferred to be seen having pizzas and cold coffees, and naadan delicacies were restricted to toddy shops, which are not everyone’s cup of tea.

 Cut to 2018. Take a drive around Kochi or Thiruvananthapuram city and you can spot at least a dozen restaurants and coffee shops, nay, chayakkadas, where everything – from the restaurant name to the dishes to the décor scream a combination of innovation, quirkiness and naadan like never before. ‘Thaninaadan is even better than naadan’ is the USP, and the dishes offered would perhaps be the best and healthiest picks from the kitchens of mothers and grandmothers from across Kerala. And gorging on the kanjis, pothichorus and chutta meens (fried fish) would be the ‘selfie generation’ in their 20s and 30s. We explore this new food culture which has been sweeping across Kerala:
 
 
 
 As far as the youth now are concerned, the priorities are taste, health and the ambience, apparently. Dishes like kanji and kappa were traditionally considered poor man’s fare, but when offered in a funky setting with tasty accompaniments, sell like hotcakes.
 
 Idli is served with non-veg curries while there are exclusive outlets like Dhe Puttu which offer innovative puttu varieties. At  , pazhankanji is served in a chatti, with kappa, pickle, chammanthi pulisserry, curd, onion and chilly with fish curry. Minu Pauline, who runs the hotel, says, “College students arrive in groups to have pazhankanji. At times, families come in to give their children a taste of pazhankanji while those older happily have it daily.” This extends to desserts as well, where ilayada, kozhukkatta and even kinnathappam have replaced ice cream and pastry in these food joints.
 At Cinema Café, Kacheripady, visitors sit in a world of Malayalam cinema, literally, while they munch on aval (beaten rice) or sip guava juice. Old and rare film songs play in the background while old and new film posters fill the walls and tables. “People come here to get a feel of home,” says its founder Nandakumar. “My family members prepare the food and so half are daily customers, who know this kind of food won’t harm their stomach. Malayalam film lovers get the best of both — homely food and cinema.”
 
 Anoop Anthony of  , renowned for its pazhampori-beef curry combo, agrees. “Youngsters today care for the ambience along with the food. Selfie spots are in plenty here. We have also printed age-old Malayalam proverbs on table tops, many of which are new to the youngsters. They lap them all up.” 
 
 
 Foodie Jay Menon attributes it to the new food culture in the State, where people are willing to travel even long distances for good food. “I come down from Mumbai every month to have beef fry in Kerala. Also, people just got tired of the same kind of tastes. The freshness and variety of naadan is lacking in fast food.” 
 
 Not many knew about dishes like maniputtu or Ravuthar biryani, both made exclusively in Muslim houses, until they made an entry into the naadan restaurants. “There are umpteen such dishes. We have a dish called kozhi kidathi porichathu which is actually my mother-in-law’s recipe. We also have kanalil chutta kozhi which is chicken cooked on charcoal,” says Nidheesh, founder of Arippa.
 
 Malabari dishes, once the monopoly of Kozhikode restaurants, have made a steady inflow into the rest of Kerala with the naadan restaurants re-introducing them with idiosyncratic names like veerappan chicken fry and thinnal thoofanakunna chicken fry, both specialties of  .
 
 
 
 
 There are students and youngsters who eat out almost every day, and for how long can they have greasy food? “We have daily customers for pazhankanji, who come in around 10 am and order it. It keeps them energised and hydrated for the entire day. All our traditional dishes suit our climate actually,” says Minu.
 
  
 The same is the case with Aavi, where youngsters and even celebrities are the takers for kanji, says Ranjith Menon, its general manager. “Everything is cooked in steam here and people seek them out. For lunch too, our pothichoru, which has fish fry, thoran, omelette, chammanthi and rice packed in a vazhayila (banana leaf), gets sold out by 1.15 pm,” he says.
 
 
 
 Nidheesh attributes the new-found love for homemade food to a basic fact — we can’t be bothered to cook elaborately anymore. “Think of something like appam and meen molee or kappa and meenkari. Sure, they were daily fare for our grandmothers, but who makes them at home anymore?’’ he asks. 
 Since cooking at home daily is not an option, restaurants are becoming a necessity, says Devan, a Kochiite and foodie. “We seek out restaurants which offer home-cooked food. Many of these new joints like Binnamma’s are run by a family, who cook the food themselves and that’s why we opt for such places,” he says.
 
 
