CHANDIGARH: Contradicting the Haryana officials' earlier claims, Panchkula SDM told the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday that he had been in touch with one of the key   men accused of the violence in Panchkula after the conviction of their chief on August 25, 2017, on the orders of the then Panchkula deputy commissioner. 

 In an affidavit submitted before the high court,   submitted that the complete transcript regarding his conversation with the accused was not presented by the deputy commissioner of police (DCP). 
 
 The   (HCS) officer also claimed that the affidavit filed by additional chief secretary (home) mentioning that state government had not authorized him to speak to the accused, was factually not correct. The HC has asked the ACS (home) and Panchkula DCP to file their replies on Setia's contentions by April 16.
 
 Setia along with Bhiwani superintendent of police (SP) Surender   and   deputy superintendent of police Chander Pal were asked by the HC on March 9 to explain why they were in touch over phone with the accused before the Panchkula violence. Justice   had sought the explanation after the ACS (home) S S Prasad informed the court that the officers were not authorised to talk to the accused.
 
 In his affidavit, Setia has submitted that a peace committee was constituted in Panchkula on instructions of the then Panchkula, DC Gauri Prashar Joshi, to maintain peace in view of the impending verdict against the dera chief.
 
 “The ACS (home) was not aware of the peace committee and authorization of DC Panchkula to remain in touch with the dera leaders. I had informed dera functionaries, including Surinder Dhiman and the accused, Jasbir Singh, that dera chief, has been held guilty and quantum of sentence would be announced on August 28. This information was provided on directions from DC . Apparently, the averments made in the affidavit of ACS (home) that government had not authorized the officers to remain in touch with dera leaders, was factually not correct,” the SDM has told the HC.
 
 The issue had reached the court in the wake of an anticipatory bail plea by Jasbir, an accused in the violence case, who has been arguing that he was not involved in the violence and had been in touch with the officers to try and defuse the situation.
 
 
 
