GURUGRAM: Four members of a family, including two minor girls, were killed while another member, a one-year-old boy, suffered injuries as the bike they were riding was rammed by a   in   on Tuesday evening.

 Eyewitnesses claimed the dumper smashed a Fiat Punto and grazed past a Scorpio, just before knocking down the bike on Sohna-Ballabhgarh road around 8.15pm. The dumper driver fled the scene, leaving his vehicle behind.
 
 Police suspect it was the same dumper that also dashed a bus carrying members of a baraat near Sirohi village in Faridabad merely 15 minutes earlier — the first in the series of accidents — in which a 14-year-old boy lost his one hand.
 
 According to cops, the dumper was going towards Sohna while the Fiat Punto, the Scorpio and the bike were heading towards Faridabad side when the accidents happened near Harchandpur village in Sohna. The dumper driver apparently lost control over the wheel and rammed into the car, grazed the SUV and then hit the bike. One of the wheels of the bike came off in the impact and the front portion of the Fiat Punto was badly damaged.
 
 While Afsana (27) and her brother Irshad (29) died on way to hospital, her two daughters Aayat (4) and Saima (6) succumbed to their injuries a few hours later. Afsana’s son   (1) has been admitted to a private hospital, where doctors termed his condition to be stable.
 
 Police said Afsana and her children were going to her parents’ house at Dhoj village (in Faridabad) from Dungarpur village (Sohna), where she used to live with her husband. Irshad had come to take them to Dhoj.
 
 The car driver, Rajiv Kohli, a resident of Sector 15 of Rohini (Delhi) also sustained serious injuries, and is recuperating in a private hospital in Sohna.
 
 Police said the SUV driver suffered minor injuries and drove off after the crash.
 
 Later, based on the complaint filed by Kohli, an FIR has been registered against the dumper driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by endangering life), 304A (causing death by negligence), 427(causing damage) of the IPC at Sohna police station. The dumper has been seized.
 
 Area SHO inspector Harender Kumar said a police team had rushed to the spot as soon as they got the information and took all the injured to hospital. “We have identified the dumper’s driver as Shahzad, a resident of Dhoj. But he is absconding and raids are on to nab him,” he added. The SHO further said the one-year-old boy and the car driver were still under treatment but both were out of danger.
 
 In the Faridabad  , a dumper dashed a   bus, in which a marriage party was travelling to Faridabad from Mewat, around 8pm near Sirohi village.
 
 “A 14-year-old boy,  , a resident of Hirmathala village (Mewat), had kept his hand outside the window. His hand was amputated in the accident. The injured boy has been referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital,” said SI Badan Singh, head of Dhoj police chowki.
 
 An FIR has been registered against an unidentified driver at Faridabad’s Sector 55 police station. “We suspect that the same dumper was involved in all these accidents,” said Singh. “Our raids are on to nab the driver.”
 
 
 
