NEW DELHI: Suraksha and Dosti groups, which have emerged as the top contenders to take over ailing Jaypee Infratech, have estimated that nearly Rs 6,000 crore is required to complete work on 250 towers in  . This translates into a funding requirement of Rs 2,000 crore after budgeting for nearly Rs 3,750 crore due from home buyers. 

  The payment by home buyers will be linked to construction milestones. While  's Suraksha group that has partnered Mumbai-based builder Dosti group has offered to commit around Rs 3,500 crore for completing the project that started nearly a decade ago, it is planning to put in place a panel of home buyers to monitor construction as part of a confidence-building exercise once it receives regulatory and legal clearances to take over the company that is facing bankruptcy proceedings, sources told TOI . 
 
 "If needed the companies will offer more money to complete construction with focus being on building flats and villas that have already been sold," one of the sources privy to the discussions told TOI. Of the 31,000-odd units, nearly 29,000 have been sold with around 25,000 yet to be delivered. Around Rs 9,000 crore have already been invested in Jaypee Infratech, so far. 
 
  The plan to put in place a committee is based on  's experience with   and Nirvana Country-2 in Gurgaon where it is completing work on delivering 600-700 of the undelivered units out of the 800 flats and villas and villas. The ARC, which received a licence from the RBI, has around Rs 4,000 crore of loans under management with 65-70% in the real estate sector and claims to be the fastest growing company in its business. 
 
 While the Suraksha-Dosti combine is yet to get a formal offer from the lenders, banks led by IDBI Bank are holding exclusive talks with the duo to increase the bid value beyond the over Rs 7,000 crore offered so far. Lenders said that they will seek a better value from the bidder with a final decision only expected next week.
 
 The plan is to deploy around 15,000 workers for five years to complete the project. Sources said that Suraksha has indicated that completing construction in Wishtown in Noida and will take up to five years with delivery planned in a phased manner during this entire period. "Suraksha and Dosti have budgeted for a cushion of four-five months over and above the estimate given by CBRE (in November 2017)," said a source. Before Jaypee Infratech was referred to a bankruptcy court, the company had indicated that it will complete construction around March 2021.
 
 
