NOIDA: Two days after the   administration has said that the school principals would be held responsible in case tobacco items were found being sold within a radius of 100 metres of any school, a reality check by TOI found such products being sold less than 30 metres from the boundaries of   including government and aided ones.

 Many prominent schools like Somerville, Apeejay, Government Primary School in Sector 5 and Gandhi Smarak High School in Sector 22 too have vendors selling tobacco products like khaini,   masala, chutki etc less than 100 metres from the school.
 
 On Thursday, district magistrate B N Singh had said that the head of a school or a college would be held accountable if any sale of tobacco or its related products took place within 100 metre radius of its premises. He had warned that the school would also lose its board affiliation if any tobacco item was sold in its vicinity. 
 
 On Saturday, a tobacco seller was spotted squatting at a distance of nearly 10 metres from the main gate of the Government Primary School in Harola area.
 
 In Sector 22, a tea seller could be seen standing near his stall with packets of tobacco products just outside the government-aided Gandhi Smarak High School.
 
 At a little distance in the same sector, tobacco products were being sold at a shop nearly 40 metres from S.A.N Public School.
 
 Similarly, tobacco products were being sold at a small shop 40 metres from the main boundary of Somerville School, Sector 22.
 
 Vendors were also seen selling tobacco items within a distance of 40 metres from the east end gate of Apeejay School, Sector 16A too.
 
 Principals and parents also questioned how three wine shops are running near Somerville, Sector 22, even as the administration wants the tobacco sellers to go. Yatendra Kasana, president, All Noida School Parents Association told TOI that the principal had raised the matter with the administration several times in the past two years, but rather than relocating these wine shops, another one has come up near the school.
 
 Principal, Somerville, Sector 22, Arul Raj told TOI that she and two security guards had spoken to the vendors selling tobacco products within a distance of 100 metres from the school.
 
 “We have asked them to close down and otherwise we will report to police,” she said. 
 
 Kiran Bala, principal, Government Primary School, Harola said they have been checking such vendors but they keep coming back.
 
 Ganga Sharan Sharma, principal, SAD Public School, Sector 22 said that it was not possible for the principals to evict anybody from near the schools.
 
 Meanwhile, in a climb down of sorts, the DM has said that while the principals will be responsible for informing about tobacco sellers, removing such sellers from within 100 metres radius of schools will be the collective responsibility of law enforcement agencies like Noida Authority and the district tobacco cell under the health department.
 
 
