PUNE: The Central Railway will set up ‘selfie points’ at some stations, including the Pune junction.

 “The Indian   (IRSDC) has been given the task of re-developing 600 stations across the country with the help of private players. Besides, the   will also renovate and develop 70 stations across the country on their own, which will include ‘selfie points’ as well. We will hold a meeting with the stations’ officials coming under the Pune division this week or next week and a consultant for the project will be finalized,” an official of the Pune rail division told TOI.
 
 
  The official said the 70 stations to be developed across the country include the ones in Pune, Lonavla and Nagpur.
 
 “Right now, the selfie point at the Pune station has not been decided. Many people court danger just for selfies and we want to prevent that. While trespassing on the railway tracks is a major problem in the Pune division, quite a few accidents happen as people are busy taking selfies with an approaching train. The selfie points will be set up at a safe place at the platforms or on the premises of the station after taking into account the safety aspect of people,” the official said.
 
 In November last year, a 22-year-old youth suffered 70% burns while taking a selfie on top of a goods train at the Khadki railway station.
 
 Sunil Udasi, chief public relations officer ( ) of the Central Railway, said, “We are planning to set up a selfie point. The Nagpur division has already started work in this regards at the Nagpur station. Lonavla, one of the favourite destinations for people, is also on our list. In Mumbai, the BMC has already set up a selfie point in front of the CSMT (Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus). The spot is such that people can take selfies and pictures of the CSMT building and also the BMC building in the background. Some more points inside the station will be identified soon and turned into selfie points. We are engaging local artists to come up with art elements at the station, after completion of which more selfie points can be developed.”
 
 Some of the stations that the Indian Railways has suggested includes the ones in Lonavla, Mumbai, Nagpur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Jaipur, Delhi and Mysore, among others. 
 
 “The proposed plan should be completed by December 2018. The work includes improvement of platforms, building, new foot overbridges and others. There are chances that the selfie point may come up at platform number one in Pune or near the Mahatma Gandhi Statue,” another Pune division official said.
 
 
