MADURAI: Students of Elango Corporation Higher Secondary School in Madhichiyam found themselves with huge ‘cash’ on their hands all of a sudden on Thursday. They shopped their hearts out at the variety of stalls put up on the school campus by the students of various schools in the city run by the civic body. 

 But there was a catch: The cash given to them was mock currency. Yet, they were able to purchase a variety of items like art and handicrafts, eatables, household items and toys displayed in the 20 stalls. All of them were prepared by the students studying from class six to eight. The exercise was part of a unique financial enterprise workshop organised by the city corporation and   which saw life skills being imparted to students. The programme was also aimed at improving the children’s prudence in spending and financial literacy, the organisers said.
 
 As many as 110 students from 35 schools took part in the event inaugurated by civic body commissioner Aneesh Sekhar. There was an exclusive stall explaining how a bank functioned with an entire classroom being converted to a bank and students taught on banking functions. Aneesh Sekhar, while visiting the stall, approached a Class VII student,   who was in charge of vehicle loan on the pretext of seeking a loan. The smart girl stumped him by asking for his Aadhaar card. In return, the commissioner too surprised her with a cash reward.
 
 “We utilized the spare time during lunch and craft classes to prepare the glass painting. It cost us Rs 80 to prepare one but we sell at Rs 100. We kept the profit margin as low as possible since buyers would also be students,” said E Yasmine, a Class VIII student of   at South Gate. 
 
 Aneesh Sekhar told reporters that life skills for students were very important, but the importance given to it left much to be desired. Such events would educate students on how to use money. “Children should realise that money is not meant to be just spent and they need to develop savings habit,” he said. 
 
 Divya Murali from American India Foundation said that this was the first time such an event was conducted in  . At the end of the event, the students would calculate how much sales they had made and the net profit. If there was a loss, they would ponder over it and come up with a solution, she said. 
 
 
