GHAZIABAD: The Uttar Pradesh government is likely to implement three important development projects in   in 2018, including an elevated road and a   line. 

 After missing several deadlines, the state government has set a target to commission the 9.3km-long UP Gate-Rajnagar Extension elevated road by the end of January. Apart from this, Ghaziabad is likely to get the   line by June.
 
 In addition to these, three flyovers at  , Hapur Chungi and Rajnagar Extension will be constructed by the end of 2018, officials said. A cyber hub at Kausambhi and a sports city at Maduban Bapudham are also expected to come up by next year.
 
 "Work on the elevated road is almost complete and we hope to commission it by January," said  , the vice-chairperson of the Ghaziabad Development Authority. "We are working on probable dates with the chief minister's office for him to inaugurate the elevated road,"   added.
 
 Work on the elevated road project had started in November 2014 and it was supposed to competed by 29 April, 2017. The project, however, missed four deadlines because of several reasons, including a tussle with the NGT.
 
  Built at a cost of Rs 1,248 crore, the six-lane elevated road is being projected as the longest in its category. It is being built on 282 piers on a 9.3km-long elevated structure from UP Gate to Rajnagar Extension. 
 
 Once complete, the elevated road is expected to reduce travel time to a mere 10 minutes from 45 minutes that commuters take to travel today.
 
 The 9.41km Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand Metro line is another important project that is likely to be implemented in 2018. "We are holding regular meetings with DMRC officials. The work is being monitored and we expect that by June 2018, the Metro will start operations. Trial runs are expected by March," said Maheshwari.
 
  The agreement for the Metro line was signed between   and DMRC in 2014. Though the project was scheduled to completed in three years, issues related to funds and land acquisition prompted the deadline to be extended to June 2018. 
 
 The project is pegged at Rs 2,210 crore and the cost is being borne by several agencies, including the GDA.
 
 Apart from these, three flyovers at Rajnagar Extension, Vasundhara and Hapur Chungi are supposed to be constructed by 2018. "We have completed the spade work for the Rajnagar Extension and Vasundhara flyovers. For the Hapur Chungi flyover, the work needs to be vetted by the board," Maheshwari said.
 
 The tentative cost for the Vasundhara and Rajnagar Extension flyovers is Rs 65 crore and Rs 60 crore, respectively. If the work continues unhindered, the project will be completed by December 2018, the officials said.
 
 A three-storied cyber hub in Kaushambi, which will serve as a popular eating joint, is also likely to come up by September next year. It would be built on a PPP model on the lines of the   near  .
 
 A sports complex spread across 5 acres is being developed in Maduban-Bapudham and is expected to be ready by December 2018.
 
 
