MYSURU: The   fish, once found in abundance in the Cauvery basin is today on the cusp of extinction, feared Steve Lockett, the vice-chairman of the Mahseer Trust, an expert from  .

 “The humpback mahseer is a species that is unique to South India, and it is known to have been found in the Cauvery basin for thousands of years. Today, the very survival of the species is in jeopardy, since it is critically endangered,” said Lockett.
 
 Lockett, who was at a meet-the-press event organised by the   on Friday, said that the situation was alarming, and urged the Karnataka government to intervene and save the species lest it go extinct.
 
 Voicing his concerns over the drastic fall in the population of the humpback mahseer, Lockett said, “In 2005, the number of this type of fish dwindled owing to a bad monsoon since the humpback mahseer breed only during the monsoon, unlike the mahseer fish in Maharashtra that breed thrice a year.”
 
 Lamenting the apathetic attitude of the officials concerned with the protection of this  , Lockett said, “We have set the alarm bells ringing and approached the fisheries department to look into the problem. But the officials fail to understand the gravity of the situation. While some of them have understood the problem, a few have turned a blind eye.”
 
 The presence of mahseer is indicative of a healthy river system, Lockett said. “Just like the abundant presence of tigers is an indicator of a balanced ecosystem in the forest, a healthy number of mahseer in a river is also an indication of a balanced aquatic system,” he said, adding that their role as bio-indicators made it even more important to conserve the species. 
 
 “Mahseer are intolerant towards pollution, and low oxygen levels. Their presence indicates that the water in the river is pure, and fit for human beings,” said Lockett.
 
 Lockett pointed out that, despite having been found in the River Cauvery for millennia past, the humpback mahseer did not have a scientific name of its own. “Mahseer from Karnataka are present in large numbers here, and this is having an adverse impact on the humpback mahseer. The Cauvery basin in Kodagu and the Moyar River in Tamil Nadu are the only places where the humback mahseer is found,” Lockett added.
 
 Humpback Mahseer
 
 Habitat: Cauvery River basin in Karnataka, and Moyar River in Tamil Nadu
 
 Characteristics
 
 *A large freshwater fish that act as bio-indicators
 
 *Loves mangoes
 
 *Presence of large number of humpback mahseer indicative of a healthy river system
 
 *Weight: 35 to 60kg
 
 Status: Critically Endangered
 
 
