CHANDIGARH: The issue of technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s public statements embarrassing the Congress party came up in the meeting of council of ministers on Thursday, with a majority of them seeking action against him. Some party leaders have even demanded his sack. 

 Recently,   objected to absence of Dalits in the list of 28 law officers announced last week. 
 
 A senior minister told TOI, “The issue was not of Channi’s intent in raising Dalit issues, but the timing. He went public with his objections about poor representation to Dalits among law officers, while campaigning for Shahkot bypoll was still on. It was demanded that chief minister Amarinder Singh should take action against him.”
 
 Another senior Congress leader said even though Channi was raising the issue of Dalit representation, the two names recommended by him for law officers’ posts happen to be non-SCs. “The issue is already is already in public domain and it was bound to be raised in the cabinet meeting. Corporation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa pointed out the statements made by Channi and then others also demanded action against Channi,” another minister added.
 
 Channi, who had earlier led a delegation of Dalit MLAs, including Raj Kumar Verka, who was unhappy over not getting cabinet berths in the recent expansion of council of ministers, was missing from the cabinet meeting. There were reports that he was abroad but no such reason was reportedly cited in the cabinet meeting.
 
 There have been reports of Channi expecting a better portfolio in the recent cabinet expansion but his department remained unchanged even as ministers like Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa got additional portfolios. Congress Ferozepur MLA Parminder Singh Pinki has already written to the party high command, demanding action against Channi. Pinki demanded that Channi should be sacked immediately for violating party discipline.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Channi could not be contacted for comments.
 
 
