Ludhiana: As the height of many trees on the southern side of the Sahnewal airport has crossed 100 feet, and due to high temperature, airport authorities have decided to decrease the number of passengers in flights from Ludhiana to Delhi. The authorities have asked the district administration about the issue for the safety of passengers.

 Confirming a decrease of passengers on the Ludhiana-Delhi flight, Sahnewal airport terminal manager Mahesh Babbar said the number of passengers in the flight was decreased to 44 in the 77-seater Air India flight due to technical issues, but the number of passengers in the Delhi-Ludhiana flight remained 70.
 
 Airport officials said even as the capacity of the flight remained 70, the number of passengers that can travel in it has been decreased due to several reasons. They added that there are around 60 trees (mainly eucalyptus) on the southern side (towards Jugiana) that have crossed a height of 100 feet, which makes it risky for pilots at the time of take-off. Besides, due to high temperature (which effects pressure at the time of take-off) in summer, the load of flights is decreased due to certain technical issues.
 
 Officiating airport director Amardeep Nehra said they had written to the district administration about the issue, after which the forest department conducted a survey of trees and got them pruned on the Sahnewal side. But apart from trees, as they are also railway lines, private houses, and electric lines on the other side, they would have to get an approval from higher authorities to get the pruning done.
 
 Nehra said following pruning on the Sahnewal side, landing had become easier, and 95% of the landings are done on that side. However, he added that the problem was not severe on the other side, but pruning of trees would help make operations smoother on that side as well.
 
 Airport officials said the runway had also been decreased to provide space for runway and safety area (RASA) which is a must for airline operations. They added that whereas the previous runway length was 1,463 metres, 90 metres had been kept for RASA. Nehra added they had frequently been taking up issues with the district administration. The deputy commissioner and divisional forest officer had visited the airport several times. 
 
 PASSENGERS TO DELHI
 
 April 12: 36
 
 April 14: 42
 
 April 16: 38
 
 April 17: 40
 
 April 19: Flight cancelled
 
 
