Ghaziabad: The 25,000 residents of Crossings Republik have complained that the issue of lack of connectivity to Greater Noida and Ghaziabad is yet to be addressed despite politicians promising to do so before several elections. 

 Last year, the Crossings Republik Owners and Members Association had filed a PIL in Allahabad high court seeking directions to the authorities in Greater Noida and Ghaziabad to build a proper  , but for the past 11 months, no hearing has taken place in the matter.
 
 The residents said the children going to schools in Greater Noida were the biggest sufferers. “There is a cratered road passing through Rishpal Garhi village that connects the two townships. The commuters are forced to spend 30-45 minutes extra during peak hours to cover the 600-metre stretch,” said Anurag Singh, a Supreme Court lawyer and petitioner.
 
 “Another option is to use the Shahberi road, which runs along Crossings Republik, but it remains chock-a-block throughout the day. Moreover, school buses cannot take this road because of high mast barriers,” he added.
 
 The residents have recently started a campaign on Twitter to highlight the issue. Replying to the comments, MPs from Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddha Nagar, Gen VK Singh (retd) and Mahesh Sharma, respectively, have said they are trying to resolve the issue at the earliest.
 
 “We are trying to sort out the issue. Most of the road is in Noida, hence Ghaziabad district magistrate has a problem. I am working to resolve the issue,” Singh tweeted. 
 
 “We will definitely look into it. The issue is on my to-do list,” said Sharma.
 
 However, the residents were not satisfied by the responses. “The issue has been there for the past five years and used as a poll plank during the Lok Sabha elections in 2014, Assembly polls in 2017 and municipal elections last year,” said Kshitiz Singhal, a resident. 
 
 If the Rishpal Garhi road is repaired, the problem can be resolved. 
 
 A senior official from GNIDA said most part of the land was in Ghaziabad, whereas according to an affidavit submitted by the GDA last year, there is a litigation that bars construction of the road in the area. Besides , some portion of the road lies in Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 GDA secretary Santosh Kumar Rai could not be contacted for his comments.
 
 
