NEW DELHI: Two persons were acquitted of the charge of trying to kill a policeman by firing at him with a Delhi   observing that the evidence led by the prosecution was “iffy” and  .

 “The accused persons cannot be convicted as the evidence by the prosecution is of uncertain/iffy nature,” said additional sessions judge Sanjeev Aggarwal. Therefore, in its view, the court finds the prosecution’s evidence to be “not trustworthy”.
 
 The accused were charged with offences of attempt to murder and assault on public servant to deter him from discharge of duty under IPC and provisions of the Arms Act.
 
 The court noted that the fired bullet could not be recovered which was a “serious flaw” on the part of the prosecution. “The fired lead could not be recovered. This is a serious flaw on the part of the prosecution as the same would have proved that it was fired from the pistol allegedly recovered from possession of the accused, which also casts doubt on the prosecution story as a whole,” observed the court.
 
 It noted that the location of the crime could not be proved despite availability of mobile phones which could have helped establish it. “The incident took place in 2012 and at that time, mobile phones were freely available and were possessed by all common people including police officials,” the court said.
 
 “In the present case, the best way for the prosecution to prove the location of crime was to prove the CDRs (call detail record) of all members of the police party at the relevant time to show their location at the place of the incident. It could have clearly proved their presence at the spot and would have duly corroborated the prosecution story regarding the time, place and manner of incident,” it said.
 
 No scientific investigations were carried out by the investigating officer, despite the availability of scientific evidence in the shape of gunshot residue test, finger prints and evidence that the fired lead was discharged from the weapon found in the possession of accused, it added.
 
 The prosecution argued that a team of police officers had gathered to arrest the accused in a separate robbery case on January 20, 2012 when one of the accused fired gunshots at one policeman, injuring him while the other accused allegedly tried to attack a police officer with a knife.
 
 
