NEW DELHI: From this week, anyone applying for a   in Delhi will be   while taking the compulsory practical test.

 Implementing the suggestion by the   earlier, the AAP government has decided to record these tests to weed out undeserving applicants and make the process transparent.
 
 On Monday, the government informed a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar that it has begun implementing the videography across 13 zonal   offices, and an agency has been appointed to record the video.
 
 The department also apprised the high court that the videos would be uploaded on its website. HC hoped that the step taken by the government would usher in greater transparency and would go a long way in allaying apprehensions of corruption.
 
 It directed the government to file a compliance status report in eight weeks and posted the matter for hearing on May 22. The government had earlier told the court that it has taken steps to control the issuance of fake licences and has also revoked the ones that were improperly granted.
 
 The department said details of those licences which have been revoked are now uploaded on the website and has taken steps to ensure compliance with provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act, it said. 
 
 HC was hearing a PIL highlighting rampant corruption in the transport department claiming that officials issued licences to untrained and unskilled people after pocketing bribes.
 
 In April last year, the bench had suggested to begin videography and asked for a status report detailing the procedure and how it intends to go about implementing it, along with the time frame.
 
 Seeking the court’s intervention to streamline the process, the PIL linked graft in the department to a spike in number of road accidents leading to death of innocent persons as untrained drivers had been allowed to drive on city roads.
 
 The petitioner had contended that the practice has been going on since 1997 and sought a CBI probe so that erring officials can be dealt with in accordance with law. 
 
 
