PUNE: Responding to complaints about the pendency of   and to bring about more transparency in administration, the state government has directed all its departments to photograph all files coming in and being cleared. These photographs will also be uploaded on each department’s website.

 As per the government resolution (GR), issued on February 15 by the general administration department, starting April 18, all files cleared and disposed of must be photographed or video recorded by state government employees under the “zero-pendency and daily disposal of grievance cases” initiative. It is also mandatory for all departments to ensure a uniform practice and ensure that files are cleared on time.
 
  
 Sumit Mullick, the chief secretary, told TOI that the GR will ensure transparency in administration. A stipulated time-frame has been set for every department, he added. “This move will ensure that all files are either cleared or sorted and send to the necessary department to clear pendency. These photographs will be maintained by each department to maintain a record of file clearance and disposal. Every department will have to adhere to the rules and regulations of the GR and will be held accountable. Even the annual performance of each department will be rated based on this initiative,” Mullick said. He added that a separate team will be appointed to monitor the process.
 
 In its GR, the state government has asked employees at all six revenue divisions, districts, tehsil and villages to launch the initiative from April 18, 2018.
 
 The zero-pendency initiative is an attempt to change the work culture at government   and make them more people-friendly. Under the initiative, pending files will have to be cleared in a mission mode. The government has, however, asked employees not to compromise on quality and the disposal of cases will be strictly as per rules and regulations.
 
 However, there will not be any change in the time-frame fixed for the disposal of cases related to public grievances under provisions of the Maharashtra Right to Public Services Act, 2015. This Act envisages disposal of cases within a stipulated time limit.
 
 All departments have also been asked to get in touch with the National Informatics Centre and obtain database application — based on a website e-Disnic (District Information System of National Informatics Centre) — and get accustomed with it. First introduced in Kolhapur, the government wants e-Disnic to be used in all other districts.
 
 The ‘zero pendency’ initiative was first started by Chandrakant Dalvi, the current Pune divisional commissioner, way back in 2008 when he was the Pune district collector. In 2009, the zero-pending initiative was implemented in Pune district. Dalvi continued to implement the model in his subsequent postings as the land settlement commissioner, co-operative commissioner and now, as the divisional commissioner, Pune. “The GR has been issued for all departments and it will ensure there is no pendency of files in any department,” he said.
 
 Activist Vivek Velankar said, “I am not sure if this system will help in good governance. Despite the launch of the Aaple Sarkar portal, the crowds at the offices have not thinned. I doubt if things will change with this move.” 
 
 
