Chennai: Luxury motorcycles are attracting interest from an unusual quarter — women. As the riding culture picks speed, increasing number of women are buying high-end bikes both for themselves as well as for the men in their lives. High-end bike marketers say part of the reason why this trend is burning rubber is the growing interest in biking clubs.  “India has recently seen a significant rise in the number of women bikers and women biking clubs. Women are actively participating in group rides while riding solo or with their partners and we have witnessed a rise in their participation at our Desmo Owners Club’s Sunday rides across India. These women riders are well informed about the accessories for customizing their rides, they treat riding gear as a high priority which signifies the growing awareness for safe motorcycling. We have seen an increase in the number of inquiries and showroom visits by women riders for our motorcycles like the Scrambler, Monster 797 and even the 959 Panigale,” said Sergi Canovas, MD of Ducati India.  Bike marketers are looking at this segment as a new opportunity. “There is a lot of money in this segment. Earlier it was jewellery which is now becoming motorcycles. In southern and western markets, women who are financially independent are buying high-end bikes and this customer segment currently comprises 8-10% per quarter for Triumph. Individual users are 5-6% while common usage is around 10% which is pretty healthy,” said Vimal Sumbly, MD, Triumph Motorcycles India. Even pure-play race bikes that are heavier and therefore not very easy to handle are getting attention from women bikers. “We are seeing girls riding the R15 and R3 though not the R1 super bike just yet. But once the MT 09 2017 edition is released in India in June-July, we expect it to do very well among womencustomers as well as it is very powerful but also light,” said Roy Kurian, senior VP, sales and marketing, Yamaha Motor India Sales. Given that most of these bikes — from the Triumph Bonneville Speedmaster, the Ducati Monster 797 or Yamaha MT 09 — are in the Rs 7-12 lakh plus category, this is a big ticket investment. Bike marketers say some of the feminine interest in these bigger bikes are coming from hardcore bikers and track riders. “These girls are professionals and they choose bikes which are good for the racing track,” said Kurian. Already marketers are offering targeted services at dealerships for this segment. “We now have special marketing and sales initiatives to cater to women customers like a separate team to go to their homes and facilitate the paper work, quicker loans etc,” said Sumbly.