MOHALI: The Pollution control boards of Punjab and Chandigarh have been passing the buck to each other for not taking responsibility to get the cases registered against the alleged defaulters found trading in biomedical waste. The   has hindered the progress made in the seizures made in the past one year in Mohali and Chandigarh.

 In August 2017, a Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) team found and seized 2 tonnes of biomedical waste from a scrap dealer in Dhanas. A day after this incident, 700kg of  was recovered from Parch village near Nayagaon in Mohali. The waste seized from the scrap dealer included needles, syringes, vials, used cotton and gloves.
 
 The PPCB said that it had reported the matter to the Chandigarh   (CPCC) as the scrap dealer falls under Chandigarh’s jurisdiction. The PPCB were left with no role to play in getting the FIR registered.
 
 SDO at PPCB Piyush Jindal said, “During the raids in August, last year, the   belonged to Chandigarh and the waste was also stated to be coming from PGIMER. A report in this matter was sent to th eChandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to take further action.”
 
 When contacted CPCC chairman   said, “We have already filed a case in a court. An FIR must have been registered by the hospital authorities.”
 
 However when contacted a PGI spokesperson to ascertain the facts of registration of the case, the   to give a satisfactory answer.
 
 “We had submitted a complaint with the police against unknown scrap dealer and did everything to stop bio-medical waste from the hospital. We do not know that police registered any FIR or not,” the spokesperson said.
 
 When contacted the police they said that no such records of registration of any FIR could be ascertained in police records.
 
 The PPCB, in the seizure of bio-medical waste on Friday, said it would forward the report to the the authorities concerned to take action against scrap dealer on the back of Chandigarh’ jurisdiction.
 
 PPCB’s SDO Kanwaldeep Kaur, said, “The matter has been forwarded to the Environmental Pollution and Control (EPC) for further action.”
 
 EPC officer SDO Piyush Jindal said, “We will file the case once Fortis is called for hearing. They will be issued a 15-day show-cause notice after which we will file the case in the court. A report would also be sent to CPCC as the seizure was made under Chandigarh jurisdiction for registration of FIR against scrap dealer.”
 
 PPCB seized  , gloves, catheters and syringes, which were not separated from the general waste. Sultan a scrap dealer along with truck drivers Pappu, Billa and Karan were accused of transporting and hoarding bio-medical waste.
 
 
