CHANDIGARH: To provide potable drinking   to the people and check decline of groundwater, the central government has granted an in-principle approval to supply surface water to Ludhiana, Amritsar and Patiala at a cost of Rs 3,508 crore.

 Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Saturday that the study report for providing surface water to Jalandhar was also in the pipeline. Sidhu said Ludhiana city having a popiulation of more than 16 lakh is proposed to be served through Sidhwan canal. The proposed works will include water treatment facilities, transmission network, additional storage facilities and revamping of old and damaged distribution system of the city area at an estimated cost of Rs 1,468 crore. Amritsar, with a population of 11.37 lakh, will be served treated surface water from the MBL canal with an investment of about Rs 1,339 crore. However, Patiala, with 4.45 lakh people, will get water from Bhakra canal with investment of Rs 700 crore.
 
 He said considering the huge investment requirements, Punjab government had approached the central government for arranging the funds through external funding agencies such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The minister said it was on Saturday that a meeting was held by the Union finance ministry officials, where an in-principle approval had been granted to the proposed three surface water supply schemes.
 
 The local bodies minister said the central government would now send the proposal to the World Bank for Ludhiana and Amritsar and to the ADB for Patiala as far as financial assistance was concerned. He added that the process of approvals, sanctioning of loan and further selection of contractor was expected to be completed within a year and thereafter the works were expected to get under way.
 
 He said people in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala are being supplied groundwater for drinking and these cities have now witnessed a sharp decline in groundwater levels due to unregulated extraction of groundwater. The Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) figures reveal that the groundwater level in these cities have declined at an approximate rate of 1m per year in the last three-four years. The report mentions extraction of groundwater in these cities is 150% more than the net groundwater availability. Therefore, these cities have been placed in the ‘dark zone’ category. 
 
 The minister added that due to rapid depletion in groundwater levels, the existing tubewells were unable to yield the required quantum of water, forcing the civic agencies to bore new tubewells every year. As per the reports of municipal corporations of these cities, every year approximately 8-10% of tubewells go dry. 
 
 According to the CGWB reports, groundwater in shallow aquifers of Ludhiana and Amritsar, closer to industrial units, is contaminated due to presence of heavy metals and deeper aquifers have also started showing water quality deterioration.
 
 
