BHOPAL: Only one of the more than 20 Bhopal   (BMC) zonal offices has submitted a reply to show cause notice over diesel usage, highlighted by an internal civic body report. The report, was a first comprehensive surveillance of   vehicles using global positioning system (GPS) tracking. 

 According to sources, in the sole reply received from an BMC area health officers (AHO), the officer has indicated that there were irregularities. 'Unjustified use of diesel has been cited and recovery would be made from drivers and other staffers responsible for vehicle,' the official stated in his reply. 
 
 Earlier this month, a damming report submitted to BMC commissioner  , highlighted discrepancies in diesel allotted and consumption to BMC vehicles. Alleged fuel theft was calculated through GPS that monitored BMC vehicles for over six months. The report was submitted to the BMC commissioner on February where   had asked the officers concerned as to 'why financial recovery should not be made against them'. Most of the junior officers are on contract.
 
 Estimates reveal that fuel worth crores of rupees has been diverted over the years. The four month compilation report has estimated 5,000 litre of diesel per month deemed utilised with the vehicle being used. 
 
 As per protocol requisition for diesel is sanctioned by AHOs and assistant engineers. A list of more than 20 vehicles which alleged siphoned off more than 200 litres of diesel, was tabled at the BMC commissioner's office. Some of newly purchased vehicles have been listed to have consumed more than 600 litre diesel which raises several eyebrows. 
 
 After a complaint last year, an investigation report was sought by the   into a scam in the BMC central workshop and fuel station. BMC has a gas station that provides diesel to some 889 vehicles. After the scam, GPS tracking was once again enabled in the government vehicles.
 
 Under scanner, dispensation of diesel and average consumption has been tracked real-time by IT centre of the BMC office at   in Bhopal.
 
 
