GOLD COAST: Coach  's mind would have gone back two decades to his playing days, when India lost to Malaysia in the Commonwealth Games in 1998. On Monday, his wards turned the tables in a sensational upset. The Indian badminton stars, led by   and  , dethroned the three-time defending champions to win their first ever gold medal in Mixed Team competition at the quadrennial event.

 
 
 
 
 It was a fantastic day for Srikanth, who dismantled former World No. 1   in straight games, as India won the five-match rubber 3-1. The only reverse for India came when   and   lost in the men's doubles. But Malaysian joy was short lived as Saina Nehwal fought hard to beat   in three games.
 
  
  
 
 The tone for the stunning victory was set by the mixed doubles combine of   and Rankireddy who won the opening rubber 21-14, 15-21, 21-15 to put India 1-0 ahead. Srikanth then came up with a mesmerizing show against Chong Wei, forcing the legend to concede defeat in straight games 21-17, 21-14.
 
 
 
 
 The Malaysian fans got their voice back following the men's doubles victory, but Saina came on and applied the finishing touches beating Cheah 21-11, 19-21, 21-9 to give her coach the gold medal he missed in 1998. India had also settled for silver behind Malaysia in 2010. "It is a very proud moment. To beat Malaysia in this kind of a format is amazing. The first match was the key. To win the mixed doubles and to get the first point was important. Chong Wei's match was more in his favour when he got in as Srikanth had not beaten him earlier in this format. But once we took the 1-0 lead, there was bit of added pressure on Chong Wei. Srikanth responded well and upped his game. It was very good to see him pull off that match," Gopichand told reporters here. "The doubles also was a close one. And Saina's match. The way she pulled it was very good," he added.
 
 
 
 
 Asked why he preferred Saina over  , Gopichand said: "Sindhu had an injury and it was better for her to rest. And Saina was playing well. We have two (top) players and we didn't have to risk Sindhu."
 
  
  
 
 
