KOLKATA: The 35-year-old chartered accountant, who was run over by an ambulance, and the teenaged boy at the wheel of the ambulance had both had food at the same eatery near Lords Bakery on Prince Anwar Shah Road minutes before the accident on Saturday night.

 Relatives and friends of deceased Tamal Dutta said he had just stepped out of the eatery after having dinner with three friends and was tracking an app cab he had booked on his cellphone, when the 17-year-old boy, a helper of the ambulance, drove into him at a high speed. The actual driver of the ambulance, Avijit Sarkar, who was nearby, rushed in and picked Dutta up and drove him first to MR Bangur Hospital, and from there, to SSKM Hospital. But as SSKM’s ventilation facility was full, Dutta was being ferried in another ambulance to a private hospital on E M Bypass early on Sunday, when he died. Sarkar (30), also the ambulance owner, along with the helper, was arrested.
  
  
 
 “I had sent the helper to get a bottle of mineral water kept in the ambulance. But I have no clue why he tried to drive the vehicle. I had never allowed him to drive it. He does not even have a licence. I gave him the keys only when he had to clean the vehicle or fetch something from it. But I blame myself for handing out the keys to him, as it led to the death of a young man,” said Sarkar, who was subsequently granted bail on Sunday. The ambulance, bought barely five months ago, has been seized. “I had tried my best to save the man. I personally picked him up and drove as fast as I could to the hospitals. But that I could not save him will haunt me forever,” said Sarkar, a resident of Jodhpur Park.
 
 
 A pall of gloom has descended on the Duttas’ Selimpur Pally neighbourhood. “He was the sole earning member of the family. He used to take care of everything, from our medicines to the upkeep of our house. I don’t know why God chose him over me. He had his entire life ahead of him,” said Tapan Dutta, Tamal’s father, who has been battling with cancer. His uncle, Chandan Dutta, said Tamal was supposed to get married by next year. “It took him some time to settle down but currently, he was doing pretty well. Of late, we were able to convince him to get married. We were looking for a bride for him as he had agreed to get married by next year,” he said. Tamal’s cousin, Arijit Chanda, said, “He cared a lot for his parents. His colleagues, who visited us, remembered him as efficient and hard-working,” he said.
 
 
