SHILLONG: Union textile minister Smriti Zubeen Irani on Saturday said a dedicated police force exclusively for women would be set up in Meghalaya if   is voted to power in this year's assembly election. 

 "Meghalaya has a unique culture and it's fascinating to see the confidence of women here. Our party believes in empowering them. We will ensure that women in Meghalaya feel safe and independent," she said, while addressing election rallies at at Dalu and Zikzak in the Garo Hills. 
 
 Highlighting PM Narendra Modi's commitment to provide free gas cylinders to poor households, Smriti said, "Women in India work tirelessly, cooking food in traditional chulhas, to bring a smile on the faces of their children. Modiji decided to provide gas cylinders to poor women to ease their problem. Modiji requested the rich to give up gas subsidy so that the poor people can benefit." She added that over 3 crore women have benefited by the initiative.
 
 Accusing chief minister Mukul Sangma of posing obstacles in the implementation of central schemes, she said, "In the absence of proper healthcare facilities, people of the state are forced to go to neighbouring Bangladesh for treatment. This is a blot on the Congress government. Modiji has cut down the prices of crucial medicines but Mukul has failed to provide those to the people of his state." 
 
 The Union minister took a jibe at chief minister Mukul Sangma for allegedly shielding the state home minister in connection with the alleged rape of a 14-year-old girl by an MLA at a guest house owned by the home minister's son in December, 2016.
 
 Earlier in the day, Smriti arrived at Dalu in a chopper from Guwahati to campaign for Kurosh R Marak, who is contesting the election from Dalu constituency in West Garo Hills. She was accompanied by Assam MLA Numal Momin and BJP national spokesperson Nalin Kohli. Marak is engaged in a three-cornered fight with   candidate Brening Sangma and sitting Congress MLA Kenethson R Sangma. 
 
 The Union minister was told by the people at Dalu that they have to go to Tura or Guwahati for getting medical care because of lack of facilities at the Dalu community health centre. 
 
 
