Mangaluru: Food and civil supplies minister U T Khader on Friday refused to comment on the allegations made against him by Farzana, the wife of murdered Target Gang leader Eliyas, saying those were the words of a grief-stricken woman, who lost her husband. 

 Farzana has been in the news after she leveled allegations against some people whom she held responsible for husband’s murder. A letter purportedly written by her has been doing rounds on social media.
 
 In the letter, Farzana demands speedy justice and threatens that she would end her life if police fail to trace the murderers of her husband and subject them to stringent punishment.
 
 The letter reads: “Please give me justice. I’m going to tell something my husband had told me. He had promised me that he would never indulge in altercations henceforth. However, Dawood (a person from the rival gang) had said he would never agree for a truce with my husband. Dawood had said he did not want my husband’s friendship…he wanted Eliyas’ life. Dawood had said he will kill Eliyas. Dawood had said he did not fear anybody as he had the backing of one Usman Kallapu, Rahim Uchil (state vice president, BJP minority morcha) and Safwan (rival gang) among several others. Dawood did as he had claimed. Please give me justice. My husband’s murderers should be subjected to rigorous punishment. This is my wish. I will hang myself if I do not get justice.”
 
 Farzana also blamed minister Khader for ‘distancing himself’ from Eliyas and family after the murder. Speaking to a TV channel over phone on Friday, Farzana said Khader and Eliyas used to hang out together and the minister used to visit their residence frequently.
 
 Accused counter
 
 When asked about the allegations made by Farzana, minister Khader, however, said he does not want to react to her statements since she is grief-stricken after her husband’s murder.
 
 “First of all, she is in despair due to her husband’s murder. I really don’t know the veracity of what she has spoken. She’s like my sister. Hence, I don’t want to comment on her statements,” Khader said.
 
 On allegations of his close association with Eliyas, Khader said: “Just because I was seen in a picture having lunch with Eliyas, it does not mean that I’m close to him. I cannot ask somebody to go away when they come and have lunch sitting next to me. Let us not politicize the murder of Eliyas. Police is working efficiently. I have asked them (police) to expedite the investigation and bring all the accused to book.”
 
 On the other hand, Rahim Uchil, too, clarified that he has no role in the murder. “In public programmes, I have been vocal about Eliyas’ association with the Congress, there’s nothing more to it. We only had ideological differences. I had no personal enmity with Eliyas and it looks like his wife has dragged my name under the influence of some people,” he stated.
 
 
