LUCKNOW: The next time you purchase a non-branded lipstick, nail enamel or kohl, do not be satisfied with the bargain you managed. In fact, be cautious. A study by King George’s   ( ) has revealed that using sub-standard or low quality makeup products do more than just external damage. It can change the genetic code of women and affect her unborn children, who could have congenital orthopaedic defects at birth.

 
  
  
 
 The reason is that these products give out fumes of lead and cadmium—two heavy metals whose quantities were found to be higher than the limit in both mothers and children tested.
 Women in the reproductive age group of 18 to 35 years are most susceptible to changes in genetic coding.
 
 The year-long study conducted by the departments of paediatric orthopaedics and biochemistry concluded the effect of environmental pollution on genetic code of mothers and how it results in orthopaedic malformation.
 
 The defects studied were ‘club foot’, where a child is born with a deformed or twisted foot and Perthes disease, where children develop arthritis at a young age, starting from four years of age. Not just from makeup products, but fumes generated from inverter batteries, paint on children’s toys, paint used on walls, charcoal stoves, passive smoking, vehicular smoke and intake of water contaminated with industrial pollution were also found to be responsible for the defects.
 
 The study was recently presented at the 20th Asia   in Antalya, Turkey.
 
 Head of the paediatric orthopaedics department at KGMU Prof   said, “The exact cause for both club foot and arthritis in children as young as four years of age is still not known. However, the number of incidences is only increasing. Our research question was generated around the role of environmental factors in the deformities and after a year, the results proved the same.”
 
 The study was in collaboration with the head of the biochemistry department  . It involved conducting genetic analysis of more than 200 children and their mothers, revealing that heavy metals had a direct effect on changing the mother’s genetic code.
 
 Prof Singh added, “The findings should be looked at from a serious perspective in the long term. Policy makers should now get it done on a larger scale. Alterations in genetic coding might not just be limited to one generation but can affect generations.”
 
 While mother and children were analysed for ‘club foot aspect’, for early-age arthritis, only affected children were studied.
 
 “Cadmium levels in these children had not altered, but the level of lead was five to six times higher than normal,” he said.
 
