AHMEDABAD: These are some of the most common scenarios, which are entirely avoidable, but lead to accidents in which pedestrians,   or the car drivers lose their lives. The following are the last moments captured on   claimed precious lives. A   conducted by   collected evidences on what led to these accidents

 TRUCK CRUSHES A TWO-WHEELER RIDER (Anupam T-junction)
 
 Traffic intersections are some of the most vulnerable spots for mishaps. The probability of an accident occurring only increases when a district or a local road intersects with a national highway. Activities such as crossing and turning left or right have the potential for conflicts among all road users. In this CCTV grab, a truck is seen travelling east, approaching Anupam Cinema T-junction from Anupam Bridge. A two-wheeler rider travelling south, was also approaching the same T-junction and intended to take a right turn towards Anupam Bridge. This T-junction was a misaligned, poorly designed intersection with absence of signage and speed control devices. The M2W rider misjudged the speed of the truck and risked taking a turn while speeding and was crushed.
 
 TWO PEDESTRIANS KILLED AT ISKCON BRIDGE
 
 In the absence of adequate pedestrian infrastructure, two of these women who tried to cross the road at Iskcon bridge were killed by oncoming traffic. The JP India ltd study found that a majority — almost in 40% cases, pedestrians were run over leading to serious and fatal accidents. The study further states that of the total fatalities in Ahmedabad , 25% were pedestrians. The study suggests that pedestrian crossing facilities must be provided every 200 metres in residential and other densely populated pedestrian areas. Pedestrian crossinsg and waiting facilities must be clear from vision obstruction related problems.
 
 LOSING CONTROL (Navrangpura)
 
 Most accidents in Ahmedabad result from poor driving or manoeuvres. Sudden steering, braking, lead to accidents, as here, a three-wheeler rider who was avoiding slowing down applies hard brakes and suddenly manoeuvres around an obstacle and loses control, injuring passengers inside the vehicle. 
 
 TURNING SUDDENLY WITHOUT AN INDICATION
 
 Iskcon Bridge and Shivranjani Junction
 
 Improper lane change and improper lane usage is a driver behavioural error often topped the list of reasons leading to accidents. Improper lane change was due to a driver rider either weaving diagonally across lanes or failing to check mirrors or indicate intention to other drivers before changing lanes
 
 
