COIMBATORE: A first year student in the Government Law College, Coimbatore, was suspended on Friday for allegedly inciting religious and gender differences among students. However, the student,  , said she had just given an extempore speech -- as part her English course work -- on an eight-year-old's rape and murder in Jammu and Kashmir.

 In its official communication to Priya, who is in the first year of her law course at the college, the principal said she had incited gender and religious differences among students.
 
 “She also stopped teacher   who had gone to inquire her about it from discharging her duty and behaved in a threatening manner,” said the communication.
 
 The communication added “Students, in their complaint, have said Priya has been forcing them to boycott classes to protest against the government, and has been posting harsh messages on WhatsApp against those who don’t listen to her. On April 13, she called boys in her class male chauvinists and spoke in a way as to incite religious differences. She also threatened teacher   when she had gone to inquire about her actions,” the communication said.
 
 It added that Priya’s activities were against the college rules and also against the recommendations of the Justice P Shanmugam committee that college premises should be beyond religious and communal politics. “It is being ordered that she is suspended,” the communication said. It added that Priya could not enter the college premises without the principal’s permission.
 
 When contacted, Priya, however, said she had spoken on the rape and murder of the eight-year-old girl in Jammu and Kashmir’s  , as part of an assignment given by her teacher. “On Friday, our English teacher asked the students to speak in front of the class on a topic of their interest. I spoke on the rape and murder of the eight-year-old girl in Jammu. I said it was not because of the way women dress that they are sexually harassed, but it was because of the society which objectifies women,” Priya said.
 
 “When I was speaking, a few boys from the class went out and were standing near the two-wheeler parking. Teacher Ammu who came that way spoke with them and came to the class. She reprimanded the English teacher saying if the portions were over she should conduct revision classes and shouldn’t hold such public speaking sessions. Then she took the students who went out of the class to the principal’s room,” said Priya. She added that on Friday afternoon she was communicated about her suspension. “I was not asked for an explanation before issuing the suspension order,” she said.
 
 Priya said she was a supporter of the Revolutionary Students’ Front and had participated in the outfit’s activities. “Though I have participated in the front's activities outside the college, the authorities seem to have acted in undue fear that I would bring the activities into the classroom,” she said.
 
