The social media is going gaga over #fitnessgoals in the New Year. Wellness and fitness is becoming a big part of everyone’s daily grind. Experts predict that age would just be a number in 2018. One would witness fitness enthusiasts and athletes shatter the myth that performance slows after age 40. The new fitness icons will be runners, elite athletes, new mothers trying to shed weight and retirees who now have time to train. In fact, people won’t want to do the same things to be fitter as more ways to be fit and have fun are here now – like family fitness, minimal equipment exercise, trampolining and more!

 
 
 These virtual reality workouts will change the way you exercise this year. Your gym will have floor-to-ceiling cinematic projections, jazzy musical sounds, choreographed lighting, as you sweat it out with music. These experiential workouts also intersperse treasure hunts and yoga with live bands to make your experience more memorable. 
 
 
 
 Punch In. Punch Hard. This is a huge year for boxing. Says fitness coach, Yasmin Karachiwala, “There is something about kicking that bag that is great therapy for the body and mind. Punching brings out a certain fierceness.” The best bit? You can box at home, in the gym or at work. Weightlifter Shweta Rathore says, “I do boxing for half an hour every day. It helps me break the fitness rut. I feel good after a session of boxing – mentally and physically, and it helps in endurance and strength training.” 
 
 
 
 One of the biggest fitness trends of 2018 is intermittent fasting along with a workout programme. With more focus on metabolism, the limelight this year will be on intermittent fasting – which involves cycling between fasting and non-fasting and going without food for a couple of hours. Says health expert Dimple Mirchandani, “This is the new secret to healthy ageing. It helps us fight age-related diseases as we get older.” Consult your doctor before making any dramatic dietary change though.
 
 
 
 Want some  ? Try Prama. Prama uses lights and touch-sensitive flooring to produce a fast-moving arcade-like game. This is a hard workout and not meant for the faint-hearted. This workout uses rowing machines, treadmills and cross-trainers as instruments. This is a year of combination fitness, where you combine exercise with a dance form. 
 
 
 
 The kids love it but now trampolines have found a new cult following – adults. A fitness style that’s gaining popularity because of its high burnout rate, trampolining is as fun an exercise as it gets. You can burn around 700 calories an hour, around twice the rate of jogging and build your core strength. UK has a dedicated an exclusive trampoline park to improve cardiovascular health. 
 
 
 
 This is a workout designed to help you push your limits and strengthen you from the inside out. The basis of this fitness trend uses  , goblet lunge and pull-ups to correct posture. The aim of this style of training is to improve muscle imbalances and poor posture as you improve you muscle strength.
 
 
 
 No amount of physical fitness is any good if you don’t simultaneously workout your grey cells. Studies by Rutgers University show that by incorporating mindfulness into your workout, you can train harder and also get rid of emotional toxicity like anxiety and depression. Actor Salma Hayek swears by it. She does a workout that uses breathing techniques, physical postures and meditation. This workout uses mindful reflection and self-regulation.
 
 
 
 A workout with your grandson? Or aunt? Or the entire family getting set to go to the gym together? This might be the new reality in 2018 as family fitness gets approval. People are changing the concept that you can't work out with your family. Fitness expert Nikhil Kapur says, “Modern workout spaces have facility for kids and parents to workout in different zones. There’s customised fitness for everyone to make exercise more fun, especially with grandparents, parents and kids working out under the same roof.
 
