Nagpur: 23-year-old Ashish Chopra from the city secured the first runner-up title in the Mr Gay World India 2018 (MGWI) which was organized by MGWI team led by the noted Indian model, actor, performer, singer and video jockey Sushant Divgikar at a Mumbai hotel on Saturday. Initially, five finalists were selected out of 50 contestants through preliminary interviews. The finalists included Samarpan Maiti from Kolkata, Chopra, Debendra Nath Sanyal from Mumbai, Chirag Gosar from Mumbai and Amitabh Das from Orissa.  Chopra, who has been a part of a number of pride marches carried out by LGBT community in around the country, emerged second best after being tested for his qualities through photo shoot, written test, panel interview, sports round, ramp walk in traditional attire and talent round. He was the highest scorer in written test and won the talent round as well. Chopra, who came out as gay when he was in his first year of BBA in Symbiosis, Pune, has never looked back since he accepted his sexuality. “I was 16 when I told my brother about my sexual preferences. In first year of college, he communicated about it to my mother. Initially, it was a bit of a struggle because she wasn’t ready to accept me and there were some very awkward conversations. She took about a year to come to terms with it. However, she still expects me to turn straight someday. On the other hand, my dad and I still don’t talk about it,” he told. Chopra is currently working at Wipro as a recruiter and the people surrounding him, unlike most in the society, are serving as a source of inspiration as they have been very supporting about his individuality. Nonetheless, the road wasn’t as smooth for him earlier. “I always knew I was gay. I knew I am attracted to the same gender as others realize they are attracted towards the opposite one. I was bullied a lot in school for being a bit feminine and I used to wonder if there is something wrong with me. But now I am extremely confident about my sexuality and very proud of it,” he said. Being a guy on a mission to grab equal rights for the folks from LGBT community and give them the rights they deserve, Chopra has advised everyone to not be afraid to be themselves. “There is absolutely nothing wrong with being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender. Your parents will always love you irrespective of what your sexual orientation is. If you are afraid of the law, section 377 only says unnatural sex is illegal. It doesn’t anywhere mention that being gay is illegal. So, there is no reason to be petrified of anything. I am sure even 377 is going to be abolished soon anyway,” he said. Chopra is very optimistic about the changes happening in the society and hopes for it to be more progressive.  “I want more people to come out of the closet and stand up for this pageant. My mom supported me when I wanted to go for MGWI and she told all her friends and family to vote for me. That’s how she is getting a conversation started and helping in the modernization of thoughts in the society by at least starting a conversation about it,” Chopra said. Maiti, the winner of the contest, will represent India in Mr. Gay World.