NOIDA: A   in Delhi on Monday   a man, who was a minor nine years ago, in connection with the gang-rape of a 24-year-old MBA student in Noida’s   village in 2009. 

 The board found sufficient evidence against him and sent him to a reformation home for three years. The survivor’s family and counsel welcomed the judgment. The conviction assumes significance as a Delhi trial court had acquitted nine others in the case for lack of evidence on February 16 last year. One accused died during trial.
 
 JJB presiding magistrate Arul Verma said the presence of the youth, who was over 17 years at the time of the offence, at the scene of occurrence had been established by overwhelming evidence and the witnesses had identified him before the court. The board sent him into protective custody in a reform home at Majnu Ka Tilla in New Delhi. The board also allowed the accused’s plea to suspend the sentence for a month to enable him to file an appeal against the judgment.
 
 Special public prosecutor Neelam Narang welcomed the judgment. “The minor accused’s counsel had argued that he was at his uncle’s place at the commission of the crime. But JJB found sufficient evidence of his presence at the spot. The investigating officials had found the survivor’s phone in his possession. His fingerprints also matched at the crime scene,” said Narang, who also heads the Rape Crisis Cell at Delhi Commission for Women .
 
 The JJB also issued directions to register an FIR against the juvenile’s uncle and another person for giving false testimony in the case. The board recommended that the UP government issue at least Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the rape survivor.
 
 The crime took place on the night of January 5, 2009, when the girl, along with a male friend, was returning from the Great India Place Mall in their car. They were stopped by 11 youngsters who were returning after a cricket match. The accused took the girl and her friend to Garhi Chaukhandi and took turns to rape her. The girl’s friend lodged an FIR with Noida police after the crime.
 
 Anil Somania, investigating officer, had gathered evidence and arrested all the 11 accused and filed a chargesheet. The matter was first tried in the district and sessions court in Surajpur, but later shifted to Delhi’s Tis Hazari court on the Supreme Court’s order. The woman’s friend had approached the apex court fearing threat to his life and facing pressure to withdraw the case.
 
 The trial court had acquitted nine accused for lack of evidence. The special judge, Shail Jain, had slammed the investigating officer for a shoddy probe. The only   was tried in a juvenile court in Delhi.
 
 Narang said the trial proceedings took place in the juvenile court and Tis Hazari court simultaneously. “The evidence presented in the two courts was same. However, the trial court acquitted the accused,” she said.
 
 A family member said the victim had left her studies after the assault. “She shifted abroad. We are happy that JJB convicted the accused. Justice, to some extent, is delivered. We have challenged the trial court order in Delhi high court ,” he said.
 
 The JJB considered the   crime statistics of UP that say the state has witnessed 4,816 rape cases and 682 gang-rape cases in 2016. “This staggering figure puts UP as the state with the second highest incidents of rape and the highest gang-rape cases,” said the judge.
 
 The board also thought it pertinent to “salute the spirit” of the survivor. “The gruesomeness and appalling manner of the offence, and the sordid details of the incident have already been vividly enumerated in our order.. She had to leave not only her city or state, but this country. Yet, this brave woman remained undeterred and went through the excruciating motions of appearing before the courts of justice,” it said.
 
 
