BENGALURU: Two manual scavengers died of asphyxiation after they entered a septic tank of a hotel in AECS Layout, Whitefield, on Tuesday afternoon. 

 Ravi Kumar, 29, and Ramu, 35, residents of   and from Raichur district in North Karnataka, had entered the septic tank of hotel Yumlok, located in the basement of a commercial building in  . 
 
  The septic tank was built, allegedly by the hotel, to collect kitchen waste, including waste water collected after cleaning utensils. "Both came to the spot around 4pm and Ramu stepped into the drain first. After 15 minutes, Ramu was heard calling Ravi. Thinking Ramu needed help, Ravi too entered the drain, which is more than 12ft deep. The hotel staff assisting the duo grew suspicious when there was no response from them. When they peeped into the drain, they saw both lying dead," an eyewitness said. 
 
 The hotel staff alerted fire and emergency services. "We sent a rescue team, which reached the spot and fished out the bodies of the two men around 5.20pm," fire brigade officials said, adding, "The two workers had no safety gear like oxygen mask or other materials." 
 
 The bodies were sent to   for postmortem.
 
  
 
 
  Jurisdictional police from HAL station have booked the hotel owner and two other employees under IPC Section 304 (cuplable homicide not amounting to murder). Two of the accused, hotel manager   and caretaker  , were arrested later in the night. Police said they are yet to question hotel owner Avinash Gupta. 
 
 "We have directed the accused trio to appear before police for further investigation," said a senior police officer.
 
 "As this hotel has been built in the basement of the building, we have secured BBMP health inspector Devraj for questioning," the officer added. 
 
  "The men were in a sump and not an Sewage Treatment Plant (STP). The sump had sewage and had been cleaned. The men were washing it. It was located in the parking area of the commercial building," said Doddanekkundi corporator Shwetha Vijayakumar. 
 
 
