RAJKOT: The huge stock of 8.5 lakh tonnes of groundnut procured at the minimum support price ( ) of Rs 900 per 20kg has become an burden for the state government as it is finding it difficult to sell it to oil millers or in the open market.

 
 In order to resolve issues that have been pending for long, the state government and officials of the nodal agency for groundnut procurement, National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (Nafed), have organized a meeting with members of the   Oil Millers Association ( ) in Gondal on Friday. The main agenda, said sources, was to convince the oil millers to purchase the huge stock for crushing.
 
 Nafed procured groundnut after the state government requested the Centre to allow procurement of more than 8.5 lakh tonnes at MSP from farmers. In addition to this, there is also 1 lakh tonned of last year’s stock carried forward, the quality of which has already deteriorated. 
 
 At Friday’s meeting, Saurashtra’s oil millers, state government officials and Nafed officials will discuss the issue in the presence of   agriculture minister R C Faldu. 
 
 Oil millers are reluctant to buy the stock as supply is greater than demand and they don’t want to pay the price that Nafed sets. 
 
 SOMA vice-president Manubhai   told TOI, “We have enough stock from the open market. Nafed demands a price in line with the price in Mumbai, which is Rs 100 higher than the market price here.” 
 
 “The biggest concern for oil millers is that there have been large-scale irregularities in the procurement at MSP. They also fear that the stock will be of poor quality or that there will be stones mixed with the groundnut. We also have to pay in advance to the government while when we purchase from traders we get three-day credit,” Patelia said.
 
 This year, groundnut production has been nearly 32 lakh tonnes in Gujarat. Against this, crushing capacity of oil mills in the state is about 8 lakh tonnes. Oil millers said they are facing tough competition from African countries and China in the export market this year.
 
 Nafed chairman   said, “We will hear the problems of oil millers. But it is the state government that has to take up the groundnut disposal issue with the Union government’s agriculture ministry. I tried to convince the state government is that a quick decision is required on this matter because the stock is huge and there is the fear of it being spoiled in the monsoon.”
 
 
