BHUBANESWAR: Parents facing difficulties to find a teacher to give tuition to their kids can now relax. They can now get one with the help of their smartphones. 

 A technology startup has developed a mobile app ' ' to help parents choose a teacher for their kids. Even students, using smartphones, can also choose a teacher for themselves. Around 5,000 teachers are registered with the app. 
 
 The service is available for Bhubaneswar only. More than 35,000 students have registered their names to get the service. 
 
 "I along with my friends saw several posters and leaflets pasted on walls and houses about the need of tuition teachers. So I thought of gathering all information regarding the teachers on a single platform for benefit of students. And the happened," said  , chief executive officer of the  , which has created the app. 
 
 He said both the Centre and state government have recognized his company as a startup. "We have started the services for free. But later we will think about taking minimal charges for the services," said  , marketing manager of the company.
 
 He said students can hire a teacher for an hour by paying anything between Rs 100 and Rs 5,000. A total of 15,000 classes have been arranged within last seven months, he added. 
 
 Students from all the boards, including CBSE, ICSE, BSE and CHSE, can get teachers on different subjects from the app. "Even we are providing dance and music teachers and gym trainers for students of different age groups," he added.
 
 Somprakash Mishra, a standard IX student of a private school, said he got to know about the app from his father's friend. "After installing the app, we booked a mathematics teacher for two months. The teacher is coming regularly to teach me mathematics. It is a nice platform to pick and choose from hundreds of teachers," he added. 
 
 Pritam Nanda, a math and science teacher, said he started using the platform two months ago. "I got to know about the app from my friend. We are getting calls from students and their parents for tuition classes. We are getting jobs without putting any extra effort," he added. 
 
 
