SHIMLA: The state government would spend Rs 110 crore on different public works department schemes in the Jaswan-Pragpur assembly constituency of the Kangra district during the current financial year. A new industrial area would also be developed at Channaur. This was stated by chief minister   while addressing a public meeting at   in Kangra on Wednesday.

 Thakur said law and order situation of the state was completely out of control during the tenure of the previous Congress government. He said the Gudiya episode had tarnished the image of state and the officers of the SIT constituted by the previous government were themselves behind the bars for the alleged custodial death of a person arrested in this connection.
 
 He said the government had now decided to use 15% of the total offering of temples for construction and maintenance of Gau Sadans in the state. He alleged that under the previous government, offerings of temples were being misused for purchasing luxury cars, air conditioners and mobile phones etc.
 
 The state had six medical colleges at present and the government had decided to open a medical university to effectively manage these colleges. He said another medical college would also be opened at Hamirpur district soon.
 
 He said the Union government had sanctioned 69 national highways for the state and the previous government had even failed to prepare DPRs for these NHs.
 
 He said due to the visionary leadership of Prime Minister  , the country was moving ahead on the path of progress and prosperity. He said 21 states of the country had BJP-led governments which spoke of the people’s support to the party. He said the present state government had started working for the welfare of every section of the society and development of every area of the state soon after taking over.
 
 Hamirpur MP Anurag Thakur said the Jaswan-Pragpur assembly constituency was poised to become ideal assembly constituency of the state. He said the previous government politicized the issue of the central university and tossed the issue between Dehra and  .
 
 He said the present state government had ensured that the varsity would soon become functional. He said the AIIMS at Bilaspur, Central University, PGI satellite centre, Indian Institute of Information Technology, medical college for Hamirpur were some of the gifts from the Centre to the Hamirpur parliamentary constituency.
 
 
