LUCKNOW: In the first sign of rumblings in unified opposition ranks after Karnataka delivered a fractured poll verdict, BSP supremo   accused   of being politically-incorrect during its campaign blitz by dubbing its poll ally JD(S) as the saffron B-team. These accusations polarized voters and helped   win more than a 100 seats, she said.

 
 Mayawati said Congress statements accusing JD(S) of having a covert understanding with BJP, tilted scales in several Muslim-dominated seats. “I would like to advise Congress that in future, don’t use language that you used during the Karnataka campaign. This ended up benefiting BJP and RSS. In their speeches, Congress leaders referred to JD(S) as BJP B-team, particularly in Muslimdominated constituencies and triggered a vote split that aided BJP. If Congress had not done this, BJP would not have won 104 seats,” she said.
 
 Commenting on B S Yeddyurappa taking oath as Karnataka CM despite lacking numbers, Mayawati said, “It’s a conspiracy to destroy the Constitution drafted by Ambedkar. Since BJP came to power they have been misusing government machinery and attacking democracy.” Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee swiftly tweeted in support of Mayawati. “I endorse Mayawatiji’s views. We must give full respect to the maker of our Constitution, Babasaheb Ambedkar,” she said.
 
 Attacking the practice of governors towing the ruling party at the Centre, Mayawati said, “We have also been a victim in Uttar Pradesh and we had to approach Supreme Court. Since BJP-led NDA has come to power, the government machinery is being misused at every level and democratic values are being killed. Karnataka is a glaring example where Yeddyurappa was administered oath even though Congress, JD(S) and BSP had more MLAs than BJP.”
 
 Congress backed JD(S) after results were declared in Karnataka and staked claim to form government with support of 116 MLAs, including 78 of Congress, 37 of JD (S) and one from BSP.
 
 Thanking Supreme Court for the midnight hearing of Congress petition against the governor’s invite to Yeddyurappa, Mayawati said only courts can save the Constitution. “What we witnessed in Karnataka, Goa, Manipur and  , are attempts by BJP and RSS to undermine the statute framed by Ambedkar. That Modi and Amit Shah did not attend the swearing-in of Yeddyurappa does not absolve them of guilt,” she said.
 
