Rajendra Yadav, who would run his clinic from the corridor of an old Sanskrit school on the   and is said to have infected many from the locality with infected syringes, was Dr 'Fixit' for the people. As per Deepu, a local youth, patients would make a beeline before his clinic before he would open it at around 9 am. Till the time he would call it a day around 11 pm, he would already have seen more than 150 patients. 

 "People from adjoining areas would also throng his dispensary. He used to charge Rs 10 for three doses of medicine and an injection shot. He would carry a 'jhola' in which he usually kept his medical kit, including used syringe and needle, which he would wash from the hand-pump water," Deepu says.
 
 Prem Ganj came under the radar of health officials in November last when 13 people from the locality tested HIV positive at a camp held by   ( ). At three repeat camps in the last week of January, 25 more cases popped up. "Nearly 270 people from Prem Ganj had got themselves examined at the camps out of which 25 tested positive.
 
 Now, people are scared and are not willing to get themselves tested. Many more cases are likely to come to light if the entire locality is tested," says Sunil Kumar, a local municipal corporator.
 
 When 25 people were tested positive at three camps last month, it was found that many of them had gone to Yadav for treatment. 
 
 After this, Bangarmau CHC Superintendent lodged an FIR against him. "At the local CHC, people don't get any medicine. Doctors would write prescription for medicine from a nearby shop. That would cost at least Rs 200. So, people would prefer the quack," says Sunil Kumar.
 
 But, locals agree that the quack only couldn't have been the sole reason for such an epidemic-like situation. "There is large number of people who migrate to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Punjab from Bangarmau. They are also potential carriers," says Sunil Shukla, a businessman in the tehsil "Need of the hour is to create awareness among the people."
 
 Anand Singh, a social worker who has worked in the area says that in January, when an NGO came to collect blood samples, most people refrained themselves from health camp. "With the stigma attached to HIV-AIDS, people are unwilling to be tested, which only adds to the risk," he says.
 
 However, the sudden outbreak has made the people panicky. When members of UPSACS visited Prem Ganj on Wednesday, some women in 50s, who have tested positive, approached them asking whether it was curable or not. 
 
 
