JAIPUR: Light showers were witnessed at many places in the state on Friday. Lightning claimed three lives.

 According to information, one person died in Jaisalmer and four others were injured while two persons died in Alwar district. 
 
 Police said, a farmer was struck by lightening while talking on mobile at   village, about 45km from Jaisalmer, while four other farmers working in the field were injured. 
 
 Similarly, a youth and a girl were killed due to lightning in   and Ramgarh tehsils, respectively, in Alwar district on Friday. 
 
 Jaipurites heaved a sigh of relief from the scorching heat as light rain in the evening brought down the temperature by a few notches at night. 
 
 The bright sun in the afternoon gave way to dark clouds in the evening. 
 
 The wind swept the clouds away resulting only in light rain in Jaipur. It was a much-needed relief for the people as the temperatures have been soaring in the last few days.
 
 The Met department said dust storm or thunderstorm was likely at isolated places in the state in the next 24 hours. 
 
 Light to moderate rains, triggered by western disturbance, lashed parts of Rajasthan, where Pilani recorded maximum 89 mm rain on Friday, said the Met officials.
 
 The change in   brought down the day temperatures by a few degrees in the state. 
 
 Jaisalmer was the hottest place at 40.3 degrees Celsius, followed by Barmer at 39.6 degrees Celsius.
 
 Churu, Alwar and   also recorded light rain, according to the Meteorological (MeT) Department here. There were reports that a few places in the   belt on Friday were lashed by hailstorm followed by light rain. 
 
 Pilani, Malsisar and Udaipurwati in Jhunjhunu and   in Sikar district reported light rain followed by hailstorm.
 
 The Met office warned that thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds are likely at isolated places in state in the next 24 hours. 
 
 However, heat wave conditions prevailed in west Rajasthan.
 
 The sudden change in weather has made the farmers jittery as rain and hail storm may damage standing crops and harvested crops lying in the fields.
 
 Light rain with thunderstorm occurred at a few places in   and very light rain was observed at isolated areas in the Jaipur division since Thursday.
 
 
