LUCKNOW:   national president Akhilesh   drove down to the residence of party’s founding member   on Sunday to greet him on his 76th birthday, thereby sending the message that he wants a united face of the party before 2019 general elections.

 Akhilesh reached Beni’s Gomtinagar residence unannounced to wish him, following which   and his son Rakesh rushed from   to meet him.
 
 The former chief minister, showered praises on Beni and described him as one of the tallest leaders of party. He said that Beni was a father figure to him since childhood. He also urged party workers to seek his blessings before parliamentary elections, hinting at a larger role for Beni in the days to come.
 
 During the dramatic days of infighting in the party, Beni had tried to convince   for a patch up with his father, but he had declined. Since then, it was the first time when the two were seen together. Akhilesh aims to regain support of sulking elders and seniors in party who had fallen out with him during the family feud.
 
 Beni can prove helpful to Akhilesh in consolidating the OBC votes since he commands respect as a ‘Kurmi’ leader. Samajwadi Party has committed support of Yadavs, but in 2014 elections, Kurmis, the other big component of OBC votebank, had shifted to BJP. Akhilesh aims to regain the support of Kurmis through Beni.
 
 However, Akhilesh’s move to woo Verma is being seen as further marginalization of Arvind Singh Gope, a minister in last government had stood by Akhilesh during the family feud.
 
 Beni and Gope are sworn rivals in Barabanki politics and the development will be seen as another blow to the latter. Gope, who was principal general secretary in state unit, is not holding any office now.
 
 Interacting with media at Beni’s residence, the former CM criticised BJP and chief minister Yogi Adityanath for using unsavoury words against his party.
 
 Yadav said that the NDA government at Centre has done nothing for Uttar Pradesh and was conspiring to polarize votes on communal and caste lines.
 
