MYSURU: With Chamundeshwari assembly constituency turning into a prestigious battleground between   and JD(S), former CM   on Saturday kicked-off his second round of poll campaign in the constituency.

 
 The three-day campaign rally ' ' covering 100 villages in the constituency commenced with Kumaraswamy garlanding Ambedkar's statue in front of Town Hall and later offering prayers at Sri Nanneswara Temple at Hinkal along with sitting MLA G T Devegowda.
 
 The roadshow which was part of the campaign rally started from Hinkal on the outskirts of the city where hundreds of JD(S) workers and leaders offered garlands to Kumaraswamy while women offered a 'purna kumbha swagatha.' On the first day of the rally, JD(S) travelled in villages that has more Kuruba and Dalit voters.
 
 The JD(S) leader held a roadshow in a specially designed bus in 27 villages including Hinkal, Kote Hundi, Kenchalagudu, D Salundi, Madduru Hundi, Chuncharayana Hundi, Beeri Hundi and others considered the vote base of CM  .
 
 JD(S) will win 100 seats
 
 Kumaraswamy exuded confidence and said G T Devegowda will win with a huge margin. He dismissed the pre-poll surveys being telecast by news channels. "A survey telecast by a channel stated that JD(S) will be the kingmaker after the election. But I believe that people are the kingmakers. In 2004 JD(S) won 58 seats and this election we have more support across the state. I believe JD(S) will win 100 seats and Congress will be reduced to just around 40 seats. I can guarantee by giving my statement in writing on a stamp paper," he said.
 
 Kumaraswamy also ridicule the decision of CM Siddaramaiah to contest from two segments. "Fearing defeat in Chamundeshwari, he has decided to contest from Badami constituency. He erred in announcing his candidature against G T Devegowda. He will lose in both constituencies," he said.
 
 However, the leader defended his decision to contest from two seats. "I had decided to contest only from Ramanagara, but JD(S) workers urged me to contest from Channapatna too. I will win in both. So my situation and Siddaramaiah's are totally different," Kumaraswamy said.
 
