Times News Network

 Ludhiana: Shimlapuri police arrested a man for killing his live-in partner on Thursday. Confessing before the police, the accused said he attacked the woman with a brick and killed her at their house in Janata Nagar, Shimlapuri on Wednesday night. The accused escaped from the spot but was nabbed on Thursday. The victim’s mother found her body on the bed and raised an alarm. On being informed, a police team reached the spot but the   weapon is yet to be found. 
 
 The victim has been identified as Pooja, 28, a mother of two. She divorced her husband about seven years ago and started living with her parents in Janata Nagar. She has a 12-year-old son from the marriage. For the past seven years, she was in a live-in- relationship with the accused, Charanjit Singh, a driver, who used to live with her at her parents’ house. They have a 5-year-old daughter. Sources said the couple had a strained relationship as the accused is a drug addict and Pooja ran the house.
 
 Pooja's mother Seema told the police that she had gone to Moga to visit relatives on Wednesday and returned in the evening to find the main door open. On entering, she said she found Pooja lying on the bed and thought she was sleeping. When she tried to wake her, she found her dead with an injury on the head. 
 
 She raised an alarm and neighbours gathered, she said, accusing Pooja’s partner Charanjit of killing her. She said he would often fight with her and thrash her. She also said Pooja was upset with Charanjit's drug addiction and used to spend all her money to buy drugs.
 
 SHO, Shimlapuri police station Ravi Kumar said police have arrested Charanjit, who has confessed to his crime. An FIR has been lodged under section of 302 (murder) of the IPC, police said. The SHO said on Wednesday evening, Pooja was in the room when Charanjit came home. Her daughter was playing outside the house and her son was in another room when the couple had an argument. 
 
 The official said, “The accused confessed that he bought a new phone which Pooja sold and they had an altercation. During the argument, Pooja allegedly slashed Charanjit’s arm with a blade. Furious, Charanjit hit Pooja’s head on the bedstead. She died and the accused fled from the spot. Pooja’s son saw Charanjit escaping on his bike.”
 
 
