HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is studying 96 junctions within the Hyderabad police commissionerate limits, identified by traffic cops for implementation of free lefts, but experts say they fear the exercise might not help to decongest traffic. Their suggestion: additional measures like lane marking and signage.

 “If a commuter is travelling towards Punjagutta from  , she should know in advance that she can use the free left to go to Banjara Hills and other areas. Such signage should be placed 150 to 200 meters ahead the junction and the traffic police at the junction should educate the commuters regarding free lefts. Once commuters get used to it, then cops can start levying fines on those flouting the norms,” said  , a road safety trainer working with the NGO, Safe Drive India.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 At present, most free lefts in the city are only adding to the traffic chaos, as several motorists end up blocking these lanes while waiting at junctions.
 
 “I regularly see cars/ two-wheelers occupying the free left near the Police Control Room. In fact, some of the motorists drive through the free left to take a take a long right turn and stop right in front of the traffic signal. It’s a practice that needs to stop,” said Ashwin Kumar from Basheerbagh.
 
 While the traffic police has set up barricades at most junctions to clearly demarcate the free left, it has failed to discipline vehicular movement. The situation, cops rue, is particularly bad during peak hours.
 
 In fact when TOI went around the city for a recce, it found that public vehicles – particularly   (TSRTC) buses –were primary offenders when it came to obstructing the flow of traffic through free lefts. “It’s not only private vehicles, even government buses occupy the free left space and don’t allow vehicles stuck behind them to pass through unless the signal turns green,” said a traffic cop at Lakdi-ka-pul.
 
 Despite the challenges, V Ravinder, joint commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad confirmed that work is on to develop more free lefts in the city.
 
