In the 80s, when Arun Govil played Sri Ram in Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayan, he became so synonymous with the character that people would treat him like God — they would fall at his feet and seek his blessings. Today, times have changed.  , who plays Sai Baba on the show 'Mere Sai — Shraddha Aur Saburi', says that people no more treat him like the human manifestation of his character. However, he notes that mythological/spiritual figures do share a special connect with the masses. 
Dressed in jeans and T-Shirt, Abeer recalls a recent incident, “I had gone to a Shiva temple in Virar, dressed casually. Though I expected no one to recognise me, one young guy did. Fearing that my prayers may be disturbed, I denied that I am not an actor. However, he kept observing me closely and told me, ‘You are the same guy who plays Sai. Even he has the same birthmark on his neck as you do.’ That’s when I realised that people watch the show closely.”
 Abeer says it’s Sai Baba’s blessings that helped him bag the role. “I had gone to Shirdi with my mother, and while she entered the shrine, I could not manage to go past the long queue. I was so disappointed that day, I prayed to Baba, ‘Please make me a celebrity so that I don’t have to wait in long queues for your darshan’. I didn’t know then that my prayers would be answered. Soon after my return, I received a call for an audition and got selected to play Sai Baba,” he narrates. 
 Unlike most actors who immerse themselves in the character, especially a mythological one, Abeer, whose real name is  , says that he doesn’t believe in doing so. “I changed my name, but that’s because I had a mentor and believed in his teachings. I don’t want to be so attached to any character that I am not able to slip into another one when the opportunity arises. The problem with essaying mythological/spiritual heroes, especially, is that you get typecast,” he says. 
 Also, while many actors stay off non-vegetarian food and alcohol when they take up the role of a spiritual hero, Abeer is happy that he doesn’t have to give up anything. “I don’t smoke, eat non-veg or consume alcohol, but I am not a saint in real life. I love to party with friends, read books, do yoga, indulge in gossip and dance. I also practise meditation, so I guess that’s the only similarity between Sai Baba and me. In fact, I am not tall as him, so I wasn’t even sure that I would be selected for the part,” the actor says. 
 A criminal lawyer by profession, Abeer thanks the women in his life for his achievements. He says, “My mother has given me an excellent upbringing; I also had a special friend who always motivated me to act. Even during auditions, there was a lady who felt that I could play Sai Baba.” 
 Ask him about his struggles in Mumbai and he replies, “My struggles are not new. I have been in the industry for seven years now. I am just enjoying the moment and thanking God for his blessings.”
 
