Maramkeri Mariyamma! Bold women, especially those who dared to explore fields traditionally dominated by men, are often termed so in our State. 

 But on International Women’s Day, we would like to give you a heads up, because soon you will have to make the phrase sound a lot more respectable.
 In Angamaly block panchayat of Ernakulam, 80 women have come together to form a collective called Green Army. Their aim: To climb coconut trees.
 T P Paul, the block panchayat president, says, “We selected 10 women each from various gram panchayats for this venture. They are grouped into various batches and trained for five days. Those from the first batch are ready to climb any coconut tree. They will also be training the rest.”
 Most of the women are homemakers in their 30s and 40s, and they are quite excited to have picked up such a skill and storm the male bastion, Paul adds.
 In tune with the times, these women aren’t adopting the traditional technique to climb the tree. A S Shakeela, Women’s Welfare Officer at the block panchayat, says, “They use a machine to climb the trees, unlike the traditional rope method. We took them for a two-day residential training in Vadakkancherry, where a few women trained in using the machinery taught them how to handle it. Now, we will lease them the machine for a daily sum. Those who have enough money can also buy their own machine, and earn about `50 for climbing a tree, anywhere in Kerala.”
 
 The women are excited about the opportunity, she says. “Not only are they plucking the coconuts, they are also collecting the fallen fruits, sorting them from other things and giving it all to the owners of the trees in a professional manner,” Shakeela says.
 
 Mini Babu, one of the new climbers, says she was initially circumspect when the news of such an opportunity reached her ears. “I was not confident at all if I could do such a thing, but I decided to give it a try. Once at Vadakkancherry, we were shown how the machine works and how we can handle the fear of height using simple tips. For instance, just don’t look down when you are on the top of a tree, else you would feel giddy.”
 
 Being able to pluck coconuts has given her a newfound confidence, she confides. “It’s something I never thought I can get done so easily. My sons weren’t very keen first, when they heard about me going for it. But I have explained to them the safety aspects and that there was no reason to worry. I hope I get to make it a profession and earn a decent living,” she says.
 
