LUDHIANA: At a time when social media seems to be in the news for all the wrong reasons, primarily for being accused of spreading misinformation through fake news, a social media page is turning out to be a big hit among residents, who are posting traffic violations by cops and locals to catch the attention of authorities for action.

 As traffic policemen are deployed in the city to act tough against violations of traffic rules, a private   group ( ) is highlighting violations by road users, including government departments, and also bringing them to the notice of the authorities. In one recent case,   police asked the deputy commissioner of police (DCP)  , to look into triple-riding by three women cops, whose image was posted on the page.
 
 On April 1 at 5.50pm, Ludhiana Road Sense had uploaded three pictures of women cops triple-riding without helmet, and to top it all, with an illegal number plate at 5pm on the day at Bharat Nagar Chowk. The page administrator requested the traffic police to take action against the cops in the picture. Three days ago, the administrator posted a response from Punjab police that read: ‘The matter has been referred to DCP/LDH-City. For further assistance and clarification on the same, please call the officer on 78370-18502.’
 
 On April 7, the group administrator posted the picture of a PCR car with a broken number plate, along with a caption in Punjabi that loosely translates as: ‘Who will issue a challan to them? Number plate is broken, that too front one. And without seatbelt. Kindly note, Traffic Police Ludhiana.’
 
 On March 27, the administrator posted images of vans of a private school in BRS Nagar driving on the wrong side. ‘Driver talking on phone with headphones at 6.30pm on March 26’. The administrator again requests traffic police to take appropriate action.
 
 On March 23, Ludhiana Road Sense posted pictures of bikes and cars with the caption: ‘Without number plates, without helmets, parking on divider, driving wrong side, underage driving. All at one location!!! Outside every school during noon. Where are the law enforcers??’
 
 On March 6, there were images of a cop posted, with the caption ‘Ludhiana-Rajguru Nagar signal. Jumping red light, and without helmet. Police official putting his own life and those of other commuters at risk.’ The administrator again requests the traffic police to take appropriate action.
 
 On February 15, the page posted pictures of a school van crossing the median space on the road with the caption ‘Are your kids in school vans safe? These school van drivers are playing with your kid’s life. Beware of these drivers, and post these kind of pics to our page. So, we can post and spread awareness.’
 
 Meanwhile, Ludhiana police says they are all for feedback about traffic issues in the city from residents. “We have been taking feedback from people about traffic issues, and do act on them. We have no problems if a group is highlighting traffic violations in the city, and we are open to using the information,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-Traffic) Sukhpal Singh Brar. He added that residents can contact him and even send him messages about violation of traffic rules in the city, and they would act on the information.
 
 Social activists say the Ludhiana Road Sense group is doing a good job to discipline violators of traffic rules by showing their violations through pictures and messages. “I also have been contributing pictures of violations by road users in Ludhiana, as the page is a good medium to bring the same to light. This is necessary to ensure that those violating traffic rules are disciplined by highlighting their mistakes. I think Ludhiana traffic police should work on the inputs from the page and act against violators,” said Narinder Singh Masson, a social activist.
 
 
