Every year for the last three years, around four lakh students have failed the maths board exam. This year too,   and   (GSHSEB) is staring at a poor maths result.

 
 
  
 
 Highly placed sources in the board say that the proportion of students passing maths is around 40%. Sources said 12 ‘grace marks’ will be needed to push the passing percentage to a respectable 65%.
 
 The concern over maths is not unfounded as the percentage of students passing the subject has declined over the years. In 2012, 75.81% of candidates passed in maths. This number was 71.11% in 2013; 72.63% in 2014; 55.05% in 2015 and 69.26% in 2017.
 
 Concern over the maths paper was greater this year, as many students found the exam tough and lots of them emerged from the exam hall in tears. While board authorities declined to comment on the results before they are declared in the last week of May, authorities admitted the maths performance in maths is a cause for worry.
 
 M M Pathan, an officer on special duty with the board, said the students’ foundation in maths is weak and this is reflected in the poor results. As the state has a no-fail policy in primary school, weak students are promoted till they hit the boards.
 
 On the poor performance of SSC students, GSHSEB chairman A J Shah said the responsibility lies squarely with parents, teachers and schools and stakeholders need to focus on improving maths learning standards.
 
 Veteran teacher  , who has been teaching maths for 25 years, says: "The problem is that the foundation of students today is weak. Earlier, students learned multiplication tables by heart. Now, even their algebra of students is weak,"   said.
 
 Retired maths teacher   said that there is an alarming trend of students trying to learn maths by rote. "For example, there was a time when multiplication tables were committed to memory and were revised in every class and sometimes even in the school assembly. Today, there is little emphasis on learning tables, which leads to difficulty in solving sums. This in turn instils a fear of the subject in students. The approach to the way maths is taught and learned needs to be changed. A more fun and more practical approach needs to be adopted," said Joshi.
 
 
