HUBBALLI: Sitting MLAs of Hubballi-Dharwad East, West and Central constituencies have managed to win by a bigger margin than the previous election, despite anti-incumbency factor.

 
 Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA  , who had won with a margin of 11,182 votes in 2013 has increased the margin to 40,487 votes this year. Bellad has credited the increased margin to his welfare works. “Anti-incumbency has not affected my performance but improved my winning margin. I focused on improving infrastructure and ensured welfare schemes including housing projects reached the people. Besides, effective campaigning on the field and on social media also contributed to my victory. The image of PM   also increased my winning margin,” Bellad told TOI. 
  
  
 Hubballi-Dharwad East MLA and Congress leader   has increased his   from 13,522 votes in 2013 to 21,467 votes. Senior Congress leader and North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation chairman Sadanand Dangannavar said anti-incumbency against the Congress government or the sitting MLA did not affect the performance of Abbayya.
 
 “This time, people of all castes and creed voted for Abbayya apart from the traditional Congress voters. People also like Abbayya as he is down to earth and responds to the woes of the people. Abbayya developed roads and drainage system and solved other civic issues. We also gave people a detailed list of contributions of Abbayya to the constituency. Hence his margin of victory increased,” he added.
 
 Former chief minister and senior BJP leader   has won with a margin of 21,306 votes despite strong anti-incumbency. He had won with a margin of 17,754 votes in 2013. District BJP president Nagesh Kalburgi attributed the increased margin to the efforts of booth level workers and effective utilisation of social media, especially WhatsApp.
 
 “While Congress accused Shettar of doing nothing in the last five terms, we listed out his contributions and educated party workers about this. We also distributed booklets of the contributions to each household. Besides, WhatsApp groups at the booth level played a major role in convincing citizens about the works done by Shettar,” he added. 
 
 
