KOLKATA: It is not on the plan of the East-West   but a station may come up on  , given the growing demand from residents and traders of Burrabazar and Posta.

 
 Executive vice-chairman K   and managing director S Paramasivan of Afocons, the agency that has constructed the country’s first underwater tunnel for the East-West corridor, said it was a highly-doable proposal, provided Kolkata Port Trust (KoPT) parted with the land required for the purpose.
 
 
  
 
 Burrabazar traders seems to have woken up late to realize they have missed the bus. “We were the most affected when we had to suspend our business for a week when the tunnels were being constructed under the road, where our establishments are located. We were then so busy with our predicament that we failed to raise our demand. Now, we rue the fact that none of the traders and residents of this thickly populated trading district of the city can avail this Metro though we had to suffer for its construction,” said Nil Kamal Ghosh, secretary of one of the biggest tenant associations in Burrabazar. The Metro’s ventilation shaft is constructed right at the area.
 
 The gap between two stations generally depends on the passenger demand, and accordingly, the distance can be as little as 600m. Here, the distance between Howrah and Mahakaran stations are nearly 1.2km. The ventilation shaft on Strand Road is 600m from the Howrah station. It was not uncommon to add an unplanned station on public demand, said an official. Moreover, the station could be built without delaying the project, which had already suffered a huge cost as well as time overrun, said a senior Afcons engineer.
 
 Two top bosses of the agency are now visiting Kolkata to celebrate the completion of the underground tunnelling from Howrah Maidan, through the   till Esplanade, a project, which they said, “rose like a phoenix from the ashes of complete despondence as four pillars of democracy—judiciary, media, executive and legislature—worked in perfect unison”. This project was one of the biggest learning experiences, said Subrahmanian, a technocrat who was also involved in the Kolkata’s existing Metro. “It was so close to our heart that we stuck to it when everyone else lost hope. We moved court. There is hardly any example of a contractor moving court to retrieve a project,” he said.
 
 The Howrah Maidan-Esplanade journey was fraught with challenges, but the tunnel boring machines (TBM) moved the fasted in the country. “The TBMs bore and built 500-m of the tunnel every month at a record speed. The biggest challenge we overcame was restricting the soil settlement within 10mm all along when the permissible limit was 25mm. If we failed to achieve that, many of the old dilapidated buildings on either side of the tunnel trajectory would have collapsed,” Subrahmanian said.
 
 
