BENGALURU: At least 25% of airport taxis affiliated to the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) are running without proper qualifying documents, the agency’s officials admit.

 Of the 400 taxis ferrying passengers to and from Kempegowda International Airport ( ), over 100 were found to be plying with lapsed vehicle insurance. Many drivers did not have driving licences, and vehicles lacked fitness certificates issued by the transport department.
 
 Alarmed by the statistics and firm on putting in place a monitoring mechanism, KSTDC issued strict directives to taxi operators, asking them to register themselves online on or before Sunday (January 7), failing which their services would be cancelled.
 
 “The violations are serious since they concern passenger safety and quality of service. There are many complaints about the taxi drivers’ behaviour with passengers and other issues, including pricing. We have decided to crack down on the violators, and since it needs proper monitoring, we’ve asked taxi operators to register online,” said  , assistant general manager of KSTDC.
 
 While private agencies, including Meru Cabs and Mega Cabs, were providing taxi service to the airport, KSTDC entered the scene in 2009 and signed an agreement with Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) to operate 500 AC cars and 150 non-AC cars. At present, 400 AC cars and over 200 non-AC cars are in operation, an indication that unauthorized cabs are plying in the name of KSTDC.
 
 KSTDC officials said they have placed Radio Frequency Identifiers (RFIDs) at arrival and departure points of the airport to monitor their cabs. For digital monitoring, the cabs have to be fitted with RFID tags and be registered online.
 
 “We are dismayed by the poor response from cab operators. The exercise was started in June 2017 and we’ve issued seven reminders since then, but only 135 AC cars and 19 non-AC cars have been registered so far. It is the final call, and their services will be cancelled if they fail to register on or before January 7,” said Ajith Kumar.
 
 Cab operators, however, cry foul, alleging that the web portal is not supportive as it shows server error when they try to upload documents. They are demanding more time to register.
 
 “KSTDC officials were liberal after issuing notices to cab operators last June, but suddenly became strict and fixed January 7 as the deadline. It is unfair and impractical. Let them first fix the bugs in the web portal,” said Hameed Akbar Ali, general secretary of Karnataka City Taxi Operators (Controller) Association.
 
 Representatives of various cab owners’ associations have approached KSTDC, demanding that the issue be discussed with stakeholders.
 
 “While we agree that the menace of unauthorized taxis must be curbed, our argument is that policy implementation should be pragmatic. To be fair, cab operators must be given at least 15 more days,” said  , president of Bengaluru Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association.
 
 
 
 
 According to the transport department’s guidelines, any agency owning a fleet of more than 100 cabs must get an ‘aggregator licence’. Transport officials said KSTDC too has to obtain the aggregator licence. However, KSTDC, which is operating under the ‘city taxi permit’, argues that the aggregator licence norm does not apply to it. 
 
 “This licence applies to cabs such as Ola and Uber which have state permit, whereas agencies such as Meru, Mega and KSTDC operate under city taxi permit. The difference is that cabs with the aggregator licence are not allowed to park near the VIP arrival point and have to park near the bus stand.   park next to the VIP arrival point and we don’t want to lose the place,” said a KSTDC official.
 
 
