PATNA: The   ( ) on Monday passed a budget of Rs 792 crore with a fiscal deficit of Rs 72 crore for the financial year 2018-19.

 Mayor Sita Sahu passed the deficit budget at a special meeting of the PMC board held at a community hall in   locality of the city. It is after a gap of four years that the civic body has passed a deficit budget.
 
 While tabling the budget, the mayor said the projected expenditure was Rs 864.12 crore and the income stood at Rs 792.22 crore. She added the civic body would augment the tax collection from holding tax during the next financial year to cover the deficit.
 
 Major revenue sources of the PMC as mentioned in the budget include holding tax and mobile and communication tower tax. A sum of Rs 8.34 crore is targeted to be collected as rent from booking of community centres.
 
 The key expenses, on the other hand, are water supply, drainage system and cleanliness. Around Rs 60 crore will be spent on construction and maintenance of roads, Rs 23 crore on construction and maintenance of sewerage and drainage, Rs 41 crore on repair and maintenance of water supply network and Rs 47 crore on LED street lights.
 
 In a major decision, the PMC has given financial powers to every ward councillor to sanction funds to the tune of Rs 80 lakh for ward development activities. “Efforts will be made to widen tax collection by roping in a private agency to locate unaccessed properties. The civic body will also try to increase revenue collection from other sources, such as trade licences, mobile towers, hoardings, parking lots and toilets,” sources said, adding the PMC has roped in Ranchi-based private company Sparrow Infotech Limited for increasing its revenue collection.
 
 The civic body has set the target of revenue collection of up to Rs 216 crore in 2018-19 fiscal, including Rs 125 crore from holding tax, Rs 60 crore from registration and the remaining from parking and advertisements.
 
 “In this budget, the PMC has made a provision for welfare of sanitation workers, including providing free medical facilities to them. The total expenditure in this regard will be around Rs 5.50 crore. It will include safety equipment, such as gloves, helmets, masks, hi-tech machines and uniforms,” the mayor said.
 
 Provisions have also been made in the budget for construction of a commercial property on  . “The new Azimabad and Pataliputra circle offices will come up at Krishnapuri. A sum of Rs 3 crore has been allocated for construction of a commercial property over an area of one bigha land near   in a public-private partnership ( ) mode,” Sahu said.
 
 Deputy mayor Vinay Kumar Pappu said many pending works have been carried forward in the budget, including construction of residential building for mayor and municipal commissioner, protection of property of PMC and marketing buildings. “Many works have been pending due to lack of manpower. This issue has gone unaddressed for years. For implementation of the projects proposed in the budget, PMC needs officials, engineers and staff,” he said.
 
 Senior PMC officials and all 75 ward councillors were present at the meeting.
 
 
