Jaipur: With a target to secure top position in   Survekshan 2018, senior officials were witnessed inspecting the sanitation on Wednesday, a day before beginning of Centre’s ranking. 

 Principal secretary of local self-governance Majit Singh inspected Jagatpura, Malviya Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, JLN Road, Ajmeri Gate and Kishanpole area. After witnessing garbage in vacant plots, Singh directed the officials to issue notices to plot owners and lift garbage using their cost. 
 
 He also directed officials to deploy additional staff to lift garbage from railway tracks. Directions to remove encroachments and shift illegal dairies from the city were also given. 
 
 Jaipur will participate in Swachh Survekshan-2018 which will begin on Thursday where 500 cities with more than 1 lakh population will be judged on various cleanliness parameters. The corporation is giving extra attention as the weightage of ‘processing and disposal’ component has been increased from 20 to 25%.
 
 “Areas under the over-bridges in the city remain unattended. Directions have been given to clean places under all the over bridges. Moreover, special emphasis will be laid to clean areas at night.”
 
 A day before the JMC official also completed the documentation work. An official informed, the quality control team (QCI) will conduct a test of 1,400 marks for 44 questions based on garbage collection and transportation, processing and disposal, sanitation, behaviour change, capacity building and innovation. The local bodies will have to provide data for the same. 
 
 The official said, in Swachh Survekshan-2018, all the cities will be ranked based on 71 sanitation-related parameters with different weightage. “The Centre has revised the methodology of the survey this year. The cumulative marks will now be 4,000, up from 2,000 in 2017. All the cities will be ranked based on 71 sanitation-related parameters with different weightage. Negative marking has been introduced this time to ensure that cities do not make false claims about improving the sanitation infrastructure,” said a senior official.
 
 This year, the weightage of direct observation has also been increased from 25% to 30%. Jaipur is hoping to secure high this year as the (JMC) has already introduced an application for citizens. Moreover, JMC hired 100 college students through an event company to create awareness among residents to fill a swachhata pledge form and download the Swachhata app. 
 
 In 2017, not even a single city from Rajasthan managed to secure a spot among the top 150 in cleanliness ranking. Bundi, the cleanest in Rajasthan, stood at 171. The fall of Pink City in the ranking had attracted the attention of the Centre. During his last visit as former Union urban development minister, vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu had expressed his disappointed at Jaipur dropping to 215th position in the 2017 survey.
 
 
