Ludhiana: In the past one month, 19 incidents of theft have been reported at lawyers’ chambers at the district courts. The victims complained that the police were taking no action and they were fighting to get cases registered.

 The District Bar Association (DBA) has compiled a list of thefts that occurred since December 3 to date. “Nineteen thefts have taken place in the chambers of lawyers during the past 33 days. We have one private security guard at the chambers, but that doesn’t absolve the cops of their responsibility as we have a police post in the court complex. On several occasions we have requested the police post authorities to carry out patrolling, especially during night hours. They haven’t even registered theft cases. Now, we are fighting to get our cases registered. Thieves have stolen around 50 bikes from the parking area in the past one year,” said acting president of DBA Harjot Singh Harikay.
 
 Harinder Singh Narang, senior advocate and former vice-president of DBA, said, “On December 16, thieves stole battery from an iron enclosure at the gate of my chamber. And the next day, they ran away with an inverter. On December 18, we lodged a complaint, but the case is yet to be registered. It shows thieves have no fear of police.”
 
 The miscreants also struck at the cabin opposite Narang’s chamber.
 
 “On December 17, thieves took away battery of my inverter after breaking the lock of the iron enclosure. Now I am getting it bricked,” said advocate S Kumar.
 
 Chamber of former DBA president Jagmohan Singh Waraich was also not spared.
 
 “On December 21, thieves broke the lock of the iron enclosure and took away an inverter battery. I immediately lodged a complaint with the court complex police post, but they didn’t act. On December 27, the thieves made off with the inverter after breaking the lock. Again, the police did not lodge an FIR,” said advocate Ravdeep Singh Atwal. 
 
 However, the police said they act whenever they get a complaint. “We carry out investigation into such cases. But after getting stolen items back, the complainants withdraw complaints. We have also increased night patrolling around lawyers’ chambers and deployed four cops for the court complex,” said court complex police post in-charge ASI Baldev Singh.
 
 
