BENGALURU: The city traffic police has decided to look within as they gear up to crack down on non-certified helmets as well as helmetless driving. Come February, teams of traffic cops will conduct surprise checks at police stations and other places where policemen are employed to ensure that their colleagues use helmets that bear the mandatory   mark.

 Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hitendra said on Saturday that he will begin the safety drive by checking police officers. “On the morning of February 1, traffic police will start checking police officers across the city. Apart from stopping policemen on two-wheelers, our personnel will visit police stations and other workplaces to ensure that our colleagues have helmets certified by the   of Indian Standards. Policemen will have to pay a fine if they are found using helmets without ISI mark,” he said.
 
 Earlier this week, the police department announced that two-wheeler riders and their pillions should wear helmets certified by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The move is aimed at phasing out helmets that do not cover or protect the head fully. Any violation would invite a fine of Rs 100 from February 1onward.
 
 
 
 The drive to ensure quality helmets will begin on February 1. “The public has time till January 31 to buy a helmet with ISI mark,” city police commissioner T   had said.
 
 The quintessential half helmets of Bengaluru policemen will soon be a thing of past. Several officers confessed that, at present, their helmets lacked the mandatory ISI mark and they need to buy a new one. “We have been using something called police helmet, sourced locally. It is either khaki or white in colour, with the police logo on the front,” an officer said.
 
 Another officer, who spoke to  , wants the police department to procure helmets for the entire force. “We want a uniform, fullface helmet in khaki colour and with the police logo embossed on it. We will seek our seniors’ opinion on this.”
 
 Until now, policemen have been buying helmets manufactured by private companies from local shops. The government supplies only riothelmets to them. Riot-helmets are used while controlling unruly mob or tackling violence. “The traffic police department’s directive is a welcome move. But we need more time to buy a proper helmet as helmets with ISI mark are in huge demand now and it might affect the supply,” an officer pointed out.
 
 
