Gurgaon: It was afternoon on Wednesday. Around 30 kids were returning home from GD Goenka World School on Sohna road, after wrapping up Republic Day rehearsals. A little after 3pm, around 20 men, carrying sticks and shouting slogans, attacked their bus (HR55 J3112) with stones at a spot between Sohna and Badshapur on the Gurgaon-Alwar highway (as reported on Thursday).

 Disha (name changed), one of the students on the bus, recalled the resulting horror. The Class IX student said she could hardly comprehend what was happening around her, when one of the three teachers accompanying them told them to lie down on the bus floor to avoid injuries.
 
  “It was chaos all around. All we could think of then was was to reach home safely,” said Disha.
 
 Stones pelted by the mob kept raining on them, breaking window panes. The mob also made an attempt to torch the bus, as they had a Haryana Roadways bus minutes before. Crouching between seats, Disha heard a teacher asking the driver to keep moving. 
 
 Having spent a good part of her early life in the US, Disha said she was flummoxed by the experience. “I had been following news reports on the ‘Padmaavat’ controversy, but never expected such uncivilised behaviour,” she said. 
 
 Her mother also spoke to TOI and said the incident has made her question her kids’ safety. “We can do all we want. The school can make all arrangements. But there is always this fear,” she said, adding they had moved to India seven years ago, and it had largely been a smooth ride till Wednesday. 
 
 Meanwhile, GD Goneka School has discovered a new hero — their bus driver, Pravesh Kumar, whose quick thinking and resolute driving made the escape possible. 
 
 “We were headed for Gurgaon. As we reached Bhondsi, near the BSF base, I noticed a traffic jam. Ahead of us was a Haryana Roadways bus,” said Kumar.
 
 Within minutes, a mob arrived and set the Roadways bus on fire. “I saw masked people running towards it. They threw bottles containing some fuel inside the bus. Within seconds, it was engulfed in flames. Passengers started to run out. There was mayhem. Then, 5-6 of the hooligans came running towards us. One of them threw a brick at the windscreen, another stone hit a passenger seat window,” added Kumar. 
 
 Teacher Madhu Bhargava, who was on board, said, “We were attacked with stones, bricks and iron rods. Ahead of us, there was a bus burning down to a char in front of our eyes. I screamed, telling students to duck. Suddenly, there was a shattering noise, and shards of glass from a window flew everywhere. Children were hollering. But once we began screaming instructions, the older ones quickly obeyed us and ducked, while the youngest ones clung to us.”
 
 Kumar, meanwhile, kept his cool. “I was scared about the students. But when I heard Madhu ji’s voice, I knew I had to act fast. I drove into the mob and away. After crossing the BSF base, I called up the school, and then dropped each student,” said Kumar. 
 
 
