CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister   gave a dressing down to the top brass of the state’s police force on Wednesday, warning them that he would not think twice before sacking any officer for “bringing a bad name to the force”.

 The CM’s warning came against the backdrop of some senior officers levelling allegations against each other in court and before media. Except DGP (police housing) Sumedh Singh Saini, all 10 DGPs and 17 ADGPs were in attendance at the 15-minute, closed-door meeting called at 3pm at the Punjab civil secretariat here.
 
 The CM, said a source, made it clear to the police officers that he would, if needed, even approach the Union home minister to seek dismissal of any officer found overstepping discipline. Chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh and additional chief secretary (home) N S Kalsi also attended the meeting.
 
 The CM told the officers not to destroy the “proud legacy” of Punjab Police and said courts and the media were not the appropriate forums to resolve internal and professional differences. Without naming any officer, Amarinder said, “This has to stop right now.”
 
 Amarinder advised the senior officers to follow protocol in case of any professional problem, saying they should first approach the state DGP, home secretary and chief secretary. The CM said the officer was free to approach him in case he still felt aggrieved.
 
 The chief minister, who also heads the home department, made it clear to all officers that they were required to accept police chief DGP Suresh Arora’s leadership. He added that it was due to Arora’s professionalism that he had opposed a Union minister’s request to take Arora to the Centre.
 
 The CM said he knew it well how discipline was maintained in forces, but the recent episode was in bad taste. He asked the officers not to relax and ensure maintenance of law and order, and ensure a check on drug mafia.
 
 The chief secretary, too, urged the officers not to get involved in activities which could lower the morale and reputation of Punjab Police, which is known for courage and grit. Stating that the entire episode was awkward for him, DGP Arora too appealed to the officers not to let them down. Expressing concern over mudslinging among senior police officers, Kalsi urged them to focus on ensuring people’s safety instead. 
 
 
 
 
 After the meeting ended, Arora refused to share any details of the meeting with media. Asked why he had withdrawn his name from a three-member panel directed by the chief minister to examine allegations levelled by DGP (human resource)   of harassment against him (DGP Arora) and DGP (intelligence) Dinkar Gupta, Arora said it was “to ensure principle of natural justice”. Apart from additional chief secretary (home) Kalsi and chief principal secretary  , the chief minister has now asked the chief secretary to look into the matter.
 
 
 
 Congress circles were abuzz with reports that   president Sunil Jakhar, who had gone to meet the chief minister, left in a huff after he was asked by the security to leave his phone outside. Jakhar was accompanied by a group of MLAs who reportedly wanted to raise some local issues like posting of officers. The MLAs had on Tuesday met Jakhar at the party office in Chandigarh to register their protest in this regard. Jakhar could not be contacted as his phone was switched off. It is believed that senior cabinet minister   was later asked to reach out to Jakhar, who had to leave for Delhi late evening. Bajwa’s phone too was switched off. Interestingly, in the past Amarinder has made Jakhar attend meetings of senior officers, which had evoked strong reactions from the opposition parties.
 
 
