PATIALA: Nabha Jailbreak facilitator  , who was recently arrested in Hong Kong for a multimillion-dollar robbery, had tried to set up a set up a base in Patiala to store automatic rifles and narcotics sent into Punjab via Pakistan.

 An FIR registered at the Sadar police claims that Romi had in October, 2017, sent three persons to collect automatic assault rifles and some narcotics from a contact in Tran Taran district, which were then supplied to his mother Paramjit Kaur at her house in Masana village in Bathinda.
 
 The FIR, registered just two days before the organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police killed gangsters   and Prema Lahoria in an encounter on the Punjab-Rajasthan border on January 26, says that the assault rifles and narcotics had been sent into Punjab by ISI-backed Khalistan supporter Harmeet Singh PhD via Pakistan to spread terrorism in Punjab.
 
 The FIR was registered under Sections 212, 122, 123, 124-A, 153, 153 B and 120 b of the IPC and Section 18 of the Unlawful Activities Act, 2004, Sections 21 and 22 of the Narcotic Drugs And Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985, and Section 25 of the Arms Act on January 24, 2018, on the complaint filed by DSP   of (OCCU) of the state police.
 
 The case had been registered against Ramanjit Singh Romi, Ramandeep Singh alias Rammi, Mandeep Singh alias Nimbu, Manpreet Singh alias Manna, Saraj Singh, Harmeet Singh PhD, Vicky Gounder, Prema Lahoria, Harry Chattha, KLF chief Harminder Singh Mintu, Baljeet Singh, and Romi’s mother  .
 
 As per the FIR, Romi was in touch with PhD, whose name had cropped up during the investigation of seven targeted killings that took place in Punjab over the last two years. The police report states that Romi had called up his cousin Rammi, who was lodged in Bathinda jail, and asked him to send Nimbu, who happened to be Rammi’s first cousin, Manpreet and Saraj to Thathian Mahantan village in Tarn Taran to collect an automatic assault rifle along with some ammunition and narcotics from one Baljeet Singh, a resident of an area near Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. They had been provided with a brief description of the contact and a photograph on WhatsApp.
 
 The FIR states that the three collected the assault rifle and narcotics and took these to Paramjit Kaur in Masana village in Bathinda. The ammunition and narcotics had been sent by Harmeet Singh PhD, who is a leader of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and operates from Lahore in Pakistan. The ammunition was to be used to carry out extortions and loots and spread terror in the state.
 
 According to the FIR, the three accused — including Mandeep Singh, Manpreet Singh and Saraj Singh — had set up a base somewhere in the peripheral colonies outside Chura village located on the outskirts of in Patiala on Chandigarh road. It also recommended that a secret watch should be kept on these colonies as a huge cache of arms and ammunition, along with narcotics can be recovered. However, till date, no such recoveries have been made.
 
 A senior police officer, who is associated with the investigations being carried out by the OCCU, who did not wish to be quoted, said that while cracking down on the gangsters the cops had verified all leads that were coming their way. He said that it was only because the elaborate investigations that were undertaken by the crime control unit that they had been able to arrest most of the accused involved in the Nabha Jailbreak and other organized crimes in the state. He said the cops were keeping a close watch on all information that was being received and action as per the law was being taken.
 
 Yet to be arrested
 
 While, two of the accused in this FIR, Vicky Gounder and Prema Lahoria, were killed in a police encounter on January 26, Romi was arrested by the Hong Kong police on February 21 in connection with the a robbery in which more than 450 million Japanese yen (HK$32 million) was stolen in Tsim Sha Tsui on February 9. He is also wanted in another robbery in Hung Hom area of Hong Kong carried out in March, last year, involving HK$3.2 million. While, Rammi is already under arrest and lodged at Bathinda jail, the others are yet to be arrested in connection with this FIR.
 
 
