KOCHI: After a delay of more than 15 months in starting Roll on-Roll off (RoRo) services in the   sector, the   is now trying to invite global tenders for picking a firm, which can operate the service. The authorities are planning to shelve the original plan to float a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for operating the service citing that the government hasn't given permission for the purpose.

 The   ( ) completed the construction of the RoRo vessels and conducted the trial run of the vessels in November 2016. But the operations were not started as the construction of jetties in Vypeen and   was still pending. "It was the confusion over the construction of mooring dolphins (the pillars to which the ropes of the vessels are to be tied) that delayed the construction of the jetties. The work was awarded to the Cochin Port Trust (CPT). Eight mooring dolphins in Vypeen and 12 in Fort Kochi were to be constructed. The CPT's contractor has almost completed the works now," said  , chairman,  , an action council of residents. "
 
 There isn't any room for further delay now. So, the corporation authorities should start the service without further delay," he said. Opposition councillors, however, alleged that the corporation authorities are planning to rope in a firm of their choice under the cover of global tender. "The corporation council had decided to float an SPV. Now, they want to go for global tender. We suspect a foul play," said V P Chandran, secretary,   parliamentary party of Kochi corporation. "Similar instances have occurred earlier too. We all know about the Kerala-based "global" firm, which won the bid to construct the proposed waste to energy plant at  ," he said.
 
 Corporation officials said the authorities didn't respond to the queries by the government. "When we sent the request seeking permission for floating an SPV, the government raised some queries. Itwanted us clarify on certain things like why the local body opted for floating SPV rather than inviting tenders for operating the RoRo services. But, the local body authorities didn't respond to it. Had they given the reply, the government would have granted the permission," the official said
 
 
