JAIPUR: The state   on Monday took several decisions, including 5% relaxation to the   in minimum marks at two stages of the clerk grade II and   examination.

 Parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore said that the scheduled caste and the scheduled tribe candidates would be given 5% relaxation in the minimum pass out score of 40% and 36% marks at first and second stages of examination for direct recruitment of clerks.
 
 He said that as per the amendments,   of Jamadaar Grade II in the Rajasthan State Excise Subordinate Services would be filled through promotions and 50% through direct recruitment.
 
 Rathore said that all posts of constables in excise subordinate service would now be filled through direct recruitment, while 75% posts of drivers post to be filled by direct recruitment and 25% by promotion, he added.
 
 He said that it was further decided to have 12.5% ex-servicemen quota in direct recruitment for this service. The cabinet also approved the provision of standards for physical fitness and skill tests for these posts while the earlier provisions of interview was set aside.
 
 He said that it was also decided to amend the Rajasthan State Other Backward Categories list. After this amendment, all the persons of Nagarchi, Damami, Rana and Bayati (Barot) castes would be able to get state OBC certificates and the Dholi caste persons, who put Nagarchi, Damami, Rana and Bayati (Barot) names as their sub-castes, would get Scheduled Caste certificates. Also, the OBC list a sub-caste Devasi would also be included with Raika, Rebari (Debasi).
 
 Rathore said that the cabinet also decided to amend the Rajasthan Technical Universities Regulations through an amendment bill, to be placed in the State Assembly, through which the state government would have the right to appoint the first Vice Chancellor of any new technical university in the state. The cabinet also decided to allot land to several community organization for establishing hostels and educational institutes on concessional rates, he said.
 
 The Minister added that the cabinet decided for investment of Rs 270 crore in Rajasthan Textile Mills Limited for the Cotton Millange Yarn and Knitting Fabric Project at Bhawani Mandi in Jhalawar district. This project would give employment to 600 persons. This project would pay Rs 8.73 crore to Piplad, Bhawani Mandi Water Supply Project. Also, the state cabinet decided to give 100% concession in entry tax to Well Spun Energy Rajasthan Private Limited for setting up a wind mill project worth Rs 832 crore at Dhamottar village of Pratapgarh district. This project would give employment to 340 persons. 
 
 As per another decision, Rathore said, the benefits of RIPS 2014 would be extended to Prince Pipes and Fittings Private Limited for setting up a project at Jobner in Jaipur. This project would give employment to 411 persons. Also, Nitin Standard Limited, Hamirgarh in Bhilwara district would be given package of benefits for investing Rs 242 crore instead of earlier proposal of investing Rs 275 crore , he added.
 
 
