DHARAMSHALA: More worries ahead for tourists travelling to   this weekend. With the closure of around 150 hotels in Dharamsala, there is already a scarcity of rooms in this popular hill station. If this was adding to the woes of the visitors, there is more bad news for the tourists. The air fares to the hill station are seeing an all-time high due to the high demand for tickets for the long weekend. Now, the soaring air fares and   jams have aggravated the sufferings of the tourists, who want to enjoy the long weekend here.

 The air fare between Delhi and Dharamshala, which keeps fluctuating between Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 has almost increased twice. On Friday, a one-way ticket cost between Rs 15,000 and Rs 25,000. However, travel agents told TOI that the air fares have shot up and the increased fares are almost equal to what people pay to fly to Dubai, Singapore and   from Delhi.
 
 Ashwani Bamba, president of hoteliers association, told TOI, “This season, not many rooms are available in   because many hotels were facing closure due to the suspension of water and electricity to these properties.” He further added, “The soaring air fares and traffic jams are the main problems being faced by the people who come here to take a break from their hectic schedule. These problems have been lying unsolved for the last many years,” he said.
 
 Deepak Deewan, an owner of one of the oldest travel agencies of Mcleodganj, revealed that people hardly prefer to stay in the main city because of heavy traffic. “Now few properties have come up in the surroundings of the hill town, which were being sold at the maximum price,” he said.
 
 Dubai-based Alka  , who has come to enjoy the beauty of Dharamsala, said she was not happy to visit the hill destination. “I had come here with my son  , who studies in Class VIII. I wanted to show him monasteries here. But there is no peace here. There is heavy traffic and stray cattle roam around everywhere,” she said.
 
 When contacted, Santosh Patial, superintendent of police said they have already made traffic arrangement. “The entry of goods carriage vehicles have been banned in some places. Police officials have been deployed in more numbers at main junctions of the hill town. We are working to solve the problem” he said.
 
 
