THANE: The   work of two railway bridges in Goa during the peak summer holiday season is likely to upset the schedules of several holiday goers from Thane and Mumbai as the timings of several popular   trains is likely to be disrupted. 

 As many as four popular trains linking Goa with Mumbai including the Tejas express and the super-fast Jan Shatabdi express on the Konkan routes will be shot terminated of their respective destinations while two passenger trains linking Ratnagiri with Karwar have been cancelled for several days during the holiday period causing massive inconvenience to passengers. 
 
 As per the schedule decided by the KR, the Dadar-Madgaon Janshatabdi Express will travel only till Karmali on May 7, 14, 20 and 21, it will not run beyond Thivim on May 27 and 28. The CSMT-Karmali Tejas Express will be operated till Thivim on May 27. The 11085 LTT-Madgaon double decker express will be regulated for 20 -95 minutes at Karmali, Thivim on select dates till May 27 while the Mandovi Express will be regulated as below at Karmali, Pernem and Thivim on select dates till May 29.
 
 The Madgaon-Ratnagiri passenger will also remain cancelled while the Karwar-Pernem services that are popular among tourists between Goa and North Karnataka town will remain partially cancelled between Verna and Pernem till May 29, informed officials. Meanwhile, passengers have complained of inconvenience due to these sudden works. Several claimed they have arranged for travel package deals and said they will now have to incur more expenses and delays due to this rescheduling. 
 
 “We had planned for a package that would escort and drop us from Madgaon station to our hotels in South Goa. This sudden rescheduling is likely to impact our plans as the travel agency will hike the rates for their additional vehicle travel from Madgaon to and from Thivim or Karmali that is nearly 30kms away,” complained Sameer Patel, a commuter from Thane.
 
 Railway activists said the railways should have understood that this is the peak holiday season and should have scheduled it beforehand. “Already train on Konkan route are inadequate and running late and such disruptions will definitely inconvenience them more,” said Nandkumar Deshmukh, ailway passenger activist at Thane.
 
 When contacted, KR officials said the upkeep was imperative. “We have planned to carry out maintenance and revamp of Zuari and Mandovi bridges till May 29 in phases. Few trains will remain cancelled while others will be short terminated,” said L K verma, chief PRO at Konkan Railway.
 
 
