AHMEDABAD: Despite an increase in the  , Gujarat may see   than estimated for 2017-18, as   have affected the crop yield in the state, say agriculture experts and industry players. They, however, see a limited downside, as the infestation occurred at later stages of the crop cycle.

  
  “Cotton yield in Gujarat may take a 15% hit this year due to the pink   pest attack. The average per hectare yield of cotton in the state is estimated to fall from 510-520kg a hectare to 480kg a hectare,” said a city-based cotton expert.
 
 M V Variya of the   (JAU), who surveyed pest-affected cotton fields, said, “Saurashtra alone has seen 40% of the crop infested, while 30% of cotton fields in other parts have suffered damage from pink bollworm. We are expecting the crop to be more than last year, but it will certainly be about 15% less than what was estimated at the start of the season.”
 
 Experts, however, also made it clear that the pink bollworm infestation in Gujarat is not as severe as in Maharashtra, as the pest struck fields at the end of the harvesting (in the second half of December 2017) after the first and second pickings by the farmers. Maharashtra has cut its cotton output estimate by 37% from the September forecast due to the worm attack.
 
 Learning from their experience in kharif 2016-17, when pink bollworm hit cotton farms hard, Gujarat farmers took several measures to control the pest this year, which helped protect their crop.
 
 “After the first picking, farmers did not take adequate measures and consequently the crop was infected with pink bollworm. In many cases, the crop was infested after two pickings,” added K L Dobariya, a researcher at JAU.
 
 Data from the state agriculture department shows that cotton acreage in Gujarat increased to 26.42 lakh hectares in the kharif season of 2017-18 from 24.04 lakh hectares in the previous season.
 
 According to industry estimates, cotton production in the state was earlier estimated to reach 101 lakh bales in 2017-18. However, the infestation may keep the state from achieving that mark now.
 
 
