MANALI: Worried with the town and country planning ( ), pollution, tourism and other departments taking phase-wise action on all the hotels of  , many hoteliers have preferred not to spend money on renovation of the properties for the upcoming summer tourist season. If sealed or not allowed to work during the season, many tourists will have to spend nights in cars, said the hoteliers.

 Many hoteliers who have failed to get their properties registered after fulfilling all the norms of TCP and pollution department are selling their properties to get rid of this mess. Unfortunately, nobody is daring to buy them even at discounted cost. Most of the local hotel owners lease out their properties to others. According to sources, a large number of lessees have broken the lease agreements to avoid legal complications and many hotel owners are still searching for the lessee.
 
 “Nobody is taking interest in my well-maintained hotel despite reasonable lease amount. My property is built legally on my land but the only problem is its two walls are almost touching the other buildings. TCP is not issuing me   as they say my building has no required set-backs on two sides, which makes it unfit to issue NOC. Why they did not stop the construction when it was in the initial phase. The contractors said they will not take the risk to buy the property on lease until all documents are clear. This is the problem of many other hoteliers,” one of the hoteliers grieved.
 
 The peak summer tourist season in Manali starts from April 15 and it lasts till June 30. Lakhs of tourists throng the hill station during this period and they face difficulty in finding a single room. This is the time when hoteliers earn good money to pay expenses for the rest of the year when hotel occupancy remains below 10%. Be it Kasol, Manali, Kullu, Manikaran and other parts of the district, hotels, guesthouses and homestays are being checked by the departments for their registration, NOC from TCP and pollution control board.
 
 The action is being taken after the order was passed by the   ( ) and Himachal high court. The electricity connections to more than hundreds of hotels were disconnected in the last few months while those built on the government land would be demolished. There are many hotels which are registered and have all required documents but they built additional rooms without seeking permission. The government is now preparing to seal only the unauthorized part of the structure. Officials have formed teams to inspect each tourist unit of the district. In the first phase, it checked those hotels having more than 25 rooms. Now, they will inspect hotels with less than 25 rooms. The legal action against unauthorized hotels and guesthouses can spoil the summer season and can result in a dip in tourist footfall.
 
 Another hotelier   said he and many other hoteliers have not encroached on the government land and have built just three-storey building but are not getting NOC from TCP which is required for the registration with the department of tourism. “They are becoming rude on small deviations. We, villagers, have made many sacrifices to build these hotels. Otherwise, most of the hotels belong to the outsiders. Some rich men have their towering buildings in the main market, still, they are legal. We have hotels in villages, which are illegal. I fear they can demolish our hotels. I did not spend any amount to renovate my property this year. If they take any action in the peak season, we will have no other option but to sell our land and house.”
 
 Gajender Thakur, president of Manali hoteliers association, said the association is not with those who have raised structures on government land. However, he also said that the government should consider those who have spent their hard-earned money to generate self-employment. “Small deviations should be ignored. Formalities should be made easy and hoteliers should be given enough time to complete the registration procedure. We are requesting the authorities not to take hard decisions during tourist season,” he said. 
 
 
