Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday stayed the selection process of Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak’s faculty for the department of law on a plea against making the Aadhaar card mandatory for recruitment. 
 
 Justice Rajiv Narain Raina of the HC passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Kheri Jasor village in Jhajjar district. The court has also issued notice to MDU seeking its response on the issue by March 28. 
  
 The petitioner has sought directions to consider his application for the post of assistant professor in the law department as per the advertisement issued on January 25 without the Aadhaar card as he did not have one. He had also submitted that the Supreme Court (SC) had also made it clear that till March 31, 2018, Aadhaar card could not be made mandatory. 
  
 He also sought directions to set aside the advertisement in which the university authorities had made the Aadhaar card mandatory. 
  
 Counsel for the petitioner, Ravinder Singh Dhull, informed the HC that the MDU Rohtak had recently advertised some teaching posts, including three posts of assistant professor for general category candidates in the department of law. The last date to apply for the post was February 28. 
  
 It was further stated by the counsel that the petitioner was fully eligible for the post and was presently pursuing PhD in the same university. 
  
 “Petitioner’s identity was not disputed and he was student of the same university. However the online portal of applying for the post is asking for Aadhaar card as mandatory document for applying for the post in step-1 of the application process. The petitioner did not have any Aadhaar card and had not even applied for the same till date. He had submitted a representation before the vice chancellor of the university that he may be allowed to apply without it and mandating the same is prejudicial to his rights but nothing was done,” Dhull argued, seeking stay on the selection process. 
  
  
