PATNA: State health department will provide an incentive of Rs 1,000 to any person providing information about new   (TB) patient from April 1.

 An announcement in this regard was made by   Mangal Pandey at a TB sensitization workshop organized here by   on Wednesday. He also said all TB patients would be given Rs 500 per month for the duration of their treatment so that they can partake nutritional food.
 
 The health department has lined up various initiatives to eliminate TB by 2025 as per the national strategic plan. Principal secretary, health, Sanjay Kumar said free TB medicines were being provided in private drug shops by the health department to ensure that the patients take full drug regimen.
 
 “Failure in taking full drug regimen leads to multi-drug resistant TB and extensively drug-resistant TB. The druggists, private labs and doctors also have to maintain a register for TB patients. As per a notification issued by the central government in 2016, if a chemist, druggist or private practitioner fails to notify a TB case, they can be booked under IPC 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and IPC 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life),” Sanjay said. 
 
 State TB officer Dr K N Sahai said nearly 1,400 TB patients die in India every day. The total number of deaths reported due to TB as per Global TB report 2017 in the country last year was 4.23 lakh.
 
 “Altogether 2,000 deaths were reported due to TB in the state last year. In 2017, at least 83 cases were reported per lakh population in state against national average of 211. Many cases go unreported, for which an active case finding campaign was conducted last year with the help of NGOs and 3,858 more such cases were found,” Dr Sahai said.
 
 He added the government was planning to increase the number of nodal drug-resistant TB centres (DRTBC) from six to ten by this year. “Efforts are also being made to start   centres in all 38 districts. Apart from the state level drug repository in Patna, another repository will be established in Darbhanga,” Dr Sahai added.
 
 
