AGRA:  , a key witness in the murder of her sister, bandit-turned-MP  , on Sunday came out in support of her sister’s convicted killer,  , and said that he had been framed and that the real killer was Phoolan’s husband, Umed Singh.
 
  Both Munni Devi and Rana, who spent 13 years in jail after being convicted of Phoolan’s murder, shared the dais at the national convention of   on Sunday.
  
 Munni said, “Rana was the victim of a deep-rooted conspiracy hatched by the government.” She appealed to the judiciary to bring “the real culprit” to book and give him exemplary punishment. She also demanded that Rana be compensated for the years he spent in jail. 
  
  Munni alleged that Phoolan’s husband Umed Singh was responsible for the murder. “He lied to my sister that he was single and got married to her, and later she learnt about his first wife and daughter,” she said, accusing Umed of marrying   only for her political clout and money.
  
  Interestingly, in an interview in 2002, Munni had given a detailed account of Phoolan’s death and had stated, “At around 1pm (on July 25, 2001), my sister left the Parliament annexe in a   vehicle. All along Rana alias Pankaj followed her. The question is, how did he know she would be taking that vehicle? Obviously someone from Parliament was giving all the information to him. As soon as she got down from her vehicle, Balander (her security guard at the entrance) opened the gate. Rana, right behind her, fired at her. One of the bullets hit her in the head. As soon as I heard the gunfire, I came running out of the kitchen. Phoolan died at the gate.” 
  
  On Monday, Rana also claimed that Delhi Police was responsible for framing him. He said, “No one knows why they did that and under what pressure.” He said he would get justice as he had full faith in the judiciary.
  
  Recently, Rana was also booked for the murder of Sachin Walia, brother of a Bhim Army leader in Saharanpur. Rana, who is currently out on bail in the Phoolan murder case, is the president of Rajput Mahasabha. He is among four people named by Kanti Walia, the victim’s mother.
  
  Rana had been sentenced to life imprisonment by a local court in 2014. He was granted bail in 2017 as the case is pending in Delhi High Court.
  
  After the murder of Phoolan Devi, Rana had fled to Dehradun from Delhi and told reporters that he had taken revenge for the killing of 22 Thakurs in Kanpur's Behmai by Phoolan and her gang in 1981. In court, however, he denied having killed Phoolan.
