HYDERABAD: With the power demand expected to touch an all time high of about 65 million units (3,000 MW) during this summer in the   region, the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited ( ) is gearing up to improve the distribution network in the city.

 The power discom has decided to add 800 distribution transformers in the city by February-end. Officials said though the discom has been providing uninterrupted power supply to both domestic and industrial services for the past two years, power supply interruptions were being reported due to overloading of transformers. The problem is more in some areas such as   in Greater Hyderabad.
 
 "Our plan is to limit power load on the existing distribution transformers to 60%-70% of its capacity. This will enable us to supply power without any distribution problems even if there is any technical problem on a particular transformer," J  , director (operations), TSSPDCL told STOI.
 
 The director said efforts are being made to add more distribution transformers (DTR) before summer to account for the load increase. Besides that, the rainy season will bring other technical problems. In 2016, the maximum power consumption during the summer was just 55 million units (MU), which rose to 60 MU in 2017. This summer, as per the official estimate, it may touch 65 MU. "It takes several hours to replace a new transformer in place of a faulty one. Now, after increasing the number of DTRs, power supply can be resumed through the neighbouring DTRs," Srinivas Reddy said.
 
 Official said the Centre has been supporting the discom for improving distribution network through   (IPDS). While it gives 50% of the cost, the TSSPDCL bears the rest.
 
 Apart from increasing the number of DTRs in colonies, the state government has asked the discom to enhance the efficiency of power transfers in the 33/11 kv substations. 
 
 "As many as 30 power transfers in the substations have been replaced," a chief general manager at TSSPDCL said.
 
 
