NEW DELHI: To gain further insight into what led to the disappearance of a biker riding a   after an accident on DND flyway, police have decided to recreate the sequence of events. On Saturday, cops arrested the driver of the Etios Liva that had rammed the   and, on Sunday, he was taken to the accident spot. The accused, Pravesh Kumar, is son-in-law of the owner of the vehicle. 

 Police said they might charge Kumar with trying to destroy evidence after he tried to blame his brother for the accident. They said Kumar was alone in the car at the time of the accident. In his statement, Kumar reportedly told police that the impact of the hit was so huge that the bike flung several metres into the air. The rider disappeared after that, he claimed. Police would now try to ascertain the trajectory of the fall and launch a fresh   in the river as they suspect that the biker might have got stuck in the sludge.
 
 Cops said they had identified the exact location where the rider — suspected to be bike owner Anshuman Puri — might have fallen. The weight of the riding gear might have pulled him under the water, they said. DCP (southeast)   said teams were working on “some specific clues” after questioning Kumar. It has been more than a week now to the accident. Teams from NDRF and the Delhi government boat club have been conducting regular searches in the bushes along Yamuna.
 
 Kumar told police that the victim had stopped at the road side, probably to take a call. He claimed that he fled from the spot as he feared that he might get beaten up by passers-by. Cops are probing whether Kumar was drunk at that time. He claimed to have lost control of his car. Police have booked him under sections of MV Act as well.
 
 Police had zeroed in on Nishant and Kumar after it was found the car was registered with one Bhappe Singh residing in Canada. Singh had left the car with Kumar who often lent it out to his cousin Nishant. Both Nishant and Kumar had claimed the other one was at the wheel when the accident took place on the flyover.
 
