Hyderabad: In a bid to push   as a potential investment destination and also nudge investors to look beyond Hyderabad in Telangana, the state government is ready to sweeten the deal for such potential investors by offering them additional incentives, KT Rama Rao, minister for IT, industries and commerce, said here on Thursday.

 “I am a strong proponent of giving special incentives to industry to go to rural areas … In these areas of strategic importance, the government needs to step up its support to industries ...,” he said, adding that the need of the hour is to work towards decongestion of Hyderabad and also ensure that industrial development in the state happens in a decentralised manner.
 
 KTR, who was speaking at the launch of CII Telangana’s report on — `Warangal Vision Document 2028: Roadmap for Economic Development of Warangal (Rural & Urban)’, pointed out that the government is working towards boosting tourism in Warangal and in turn creating jobs. 
 
 The state government is already allocating Rs 300 every year to Warangal for creation of infrastructure and the central government too has been pumping funds.
 
 Apart from tourism,   listed out IT and textiles as major sectors that could generate wealth for the region. The government is setting up the Kakatiya Mega Textile Park, which is touted to be the largest textiles park in the country, in Warangal. 
 
 In the area of IT, Cyient has recently set up a centre in Warangal and the minister also urged other IT firms to explore investments in the area as there is availability of talent thanks to premier institutes like NIT Warangal. 
 
 Meanwhile, CII Telangana chairman V Rajanna urged the state government to rapidly build infrastructure in Warangal as that will act as a major draw for investors. He said the government can look at setting up high speed rail connectivity between Hyderabad and Warangal which will reduce the travel time and open up a host of opportunities for the region.
 
 “Warangal should have a mid-sized airport and also high speed rail connectivity between Hyderabad-Warangal on the lines of ‘Shanghai-Hangzhou’ in China,” he said. 
 
 KTR pointed out that a delegation from Korea has shown interest in reviving the airstrip in Warangal and that the state government is looking at follow up discussions in this regard in the coming days. 
 
 Meanwhile, criticising the Union government for solely focusing on the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC), KTR said the Centre needs to pay attention to other areas as well. He also said the state government continues to push for the rail coach factor at Kazipet that was assured in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.
 
 
