THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While the engineers at Vikram Sarabai Space Centre ( ) are celebrating the success of launch of GSLV-MK II, a group of people who surrendered their land for setting up the prestigious centre are still fighting for the jobs guaranteed to the evicted people. 

 The action council for the evicted and affected people of VSSC will take out a   to VSSC on April 5 against the sabotage of the employment scheme offered by the then ISRO chairman Vikram Sarabhai 48 years ago. 
 
 The march will begin from South Thumba to VSSC at 3.30pm. On April 5, 1970, Sarabhai had signed an agreement with the local residents of Thumba who gave up their land, jobs and even place of worship for setting up VSSC. As per the agreement, land of 10 cents and employments in VSSC for the people who had contributed their plot for the government to set up the space centre. 
 
 “Around 900-odd families were evicted from that area guaranteeing jobs in VSSC. VSSC /ISRO agreed Rs 1,200 as pension, 10 cents of land and building as compensation. Even after 48 years, as many as 600 families are yet to get the guaranteed land or job. Neither the local residents are getting any job opportunities in Group D category as promised by VSSC. They have conducted written tests and interviews. But only 249 people got job. Around 781 people are in the evicted list. We have learned that they are hiring employees from other states like   and Karnataka for contract-based jobs. The VSSC authorities are violating the rights of the people. We demand equal justice and job opportunities for the evicted persons,” said  , chairman of action council. 
 
 “Last year we conducted protests for six months but VSSC authorities refused to conduct a discussion with us. They have collected the documents from the poor and uneducated evicted people without giving any receipt and now the authorities are denying this”, he added. 
 
 The protesters’ demands include publishing the registered candidates’ list, jobs for all who entered an agreement with VSSC, reserve 25% of contract jobs for local residents, CBI inquiry into the breach of contract, etc. 
 
 
