NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday wrote a letter to  , accusing him of siding with bureaucrats whom he equated with “khap panchayats”.

 Sisodia’s attack on   came a day after the latter wrote a letter to chief minister  , advising him to sort out the differences with officers. Sisodia wrote: “You are supporting the ‘fatwa’ issued by IAS union, as part of which even junior officials have been asked not to talk to ministers and attend meetings. I had requested you to order some officials to attend a meeting, but, instead, you wrote a letter full of advice to the chief minister (sic).”
 
 Sisodia claimed that 10,000 workers and the same number of helpers working at anganwaadi centres had not been paid their salaries for the last three months.
 
 “While work is going on in the entire world on early childhood education, our anganwaadi centres are unable to function properly because officials have stopped releasing salaries of those working there (sic),” Sisodia wrote.
 
 “These are your favourite officials who are demoralised at any instance when they are scolded by a minister,” he said. “How would this help the morale of your officials if 30,000 poor families don’t get to eat? The question is also of the 5 lakh students who attend anganwaadi centres,” he said.
 
 Sisodia said Baijal was the lieutenant governor of Delhi and though he was a former IAS officer himself, he should stop seeing from the ‘spectacles’ of an IAS officer. “Try to see through the eyes of a three year old who goes to an anganwadi and whose ‘madame’ has not received her salary for three months. If you see from the spectacles of an anganwadi worker, you would see that because of the work done by many IAS officials, not only the morale but even the back of the common people has been broken (sic),” he said.
 
 “If you believe the noise created by some privileged people around you as the truth, you wouldn’t be able to hear the voice of the common people,” he said. “My fight is with the system, not IAS officers. Some of these officers are extremely hard working and I have very cordial relation with them. The ones who shout the most are the ones who have never worked in their life,” he said.
 
 Sisodia said some officials had a problem with being held accountable, working till late or carrying out field visits.
 
 
 
 
