Nisha Sawant, 32, an advertising executive from Andheri, went through a break-up about six months ago where her boyfriend simply walked out on her one day. After days of talking it out with her gal pals and feeling like she won’t get over her hurt, she finally came to terms with the end of their relationship. And then, two months later, all of a sudden, he popped up again on her radar. “I had just done a solo trip abroad and there he was, clicking ‘likes’ to my   travel photos,” she says, adding, “At first I wondered why he was doing that and then realised he was probably trying to reach out.” If you have gone through something like she has, you’re not alone. You’ve just been orbited. Here’s more on this relationship trend …

 
 
 
  
  
 
 People can behave strangely when a romantic liaison breaks off. Often, things turn nasty. Take the instance of ‘ghosting’, which is when someone suddenly disappears on another to ‘gaslighting’ or trying to manipulate them. And the latest — ‘orbiting’ — is a relationship term defined as staying in someone’s social media orbit and adding likes or views to their Facebook,   and   posts, but never saying anything more. This also comes with its share of unpleasantness as it can spell uncertainty. It is especially damaging for those who are still not over their ex-partners. 
 A Navi Mumbai-based entrepreneur Harish Vaidya affirms this. “I saw my ex adding likes on all my posts and even sharing them after we had called it quits. I was confused as I thought she wanted to have a clean break. I finally had to call her up and ask what she was upto. It was then that she told me that she just wanted to know how I was, and was trying to see my reaction. But for those few days, I had started to think she was wanting to patch up,” he says. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Dr Shefali Batra, psychiatrist and cognitive therapist, talks about what’s going on in the mind of the ‘orbiter’. She says, “We can pretty much define   as a negative behaviour being expressed towards the ex. This is different from ‘ghosting’ in which you just vanish, or even ‘haunting’. Orbiting is a trend in which one would ignore the direct interaction with the ex, but keep a watch with a ‘like’ of of an Instagram story or retweeting a tweet. In the initial stage, he or she may even block you on social media; in fact that is the classic life cycle of the orbiter, where the person first expresses discontent towards you. Part of the cycle would be that they would subsequently emerge only to ‘like’ or retweet you.” 
 So why would someone do this? There are many reasons to analyse why, she explains. “Typically, such an individual is immature and insecure. The idea is to trouble the ex, but in a passive-aggressive way by saying, ‘Hey, I don’t want to talk to you, but I am still around’. Putting a ‘heart’ or a ‘thumbs up’ under the person’s picture is like mocking him or her. It’s a way to say I will only respond this way. It’s like keeping the person in their orbit without actively engaging with them. It gives the ex mixed signals and this is just what the orbiter wants. It could be a way to irritate or even infuriate.”
 If a person has moved on, it complicates things. “It could be that the orbiter’s ex is in a relationship with somebody, and he or she goes ahead and likes a photo of the ex with the new partner. This can cause confusion,” she adds. 
 
 
 
 1. The orbiter will first block the ex. He or she would try to keep the ex away and prevent real contact.
 2. In the next stage, s/he develops ambivalent feelings and ‘likes’ or give a thumbs-up to their pictures. This sends out a signal. 
 3. They will also be the first to ‘view’ posts. It denotes a kind of power play that says, ‘I am in control again’.
 4. The person who gets orbited feels flustered, especially if he or she is not over the ex.
 5. It could also emerge as a sense of regret where someone is trying to make inroads again with a ‘smiley’. Try not to be affected until there is real conversation that clears things up. 
 
 
 
