NEW DELHI: Responding to protests in   over the replacement of seven chairpersons and a dean, the administration blamed "a small section of students, tacitly supported by some faculty members for causing enormous damage to academic and research activities". 

 The varsity administration also blamed the students of "obstructing the viva-voce of candidates who had cleared the   entrance examination".
 
  On March 14, the dean and chairpersons received an office order informing them about their replacement with an acting dean and chairperson, due to their non-compliance with the recently-implemented compulsory attendance ruling in the campus. 
 
  Since its implementation, most students have refused to sign the attendance sheets and have been supported by their teachers. 
 
  As protests continued in the campus, students of School of Arts and Aesthetics (SAA), one of the centres that saw the removal of its dean, locked the entrance of the building and stopped staff members from entering. 
 
 According to the JNU administration, the new SAA dean, Mazhar Asif, was also prevented from entering his office. "...because of this, he could not conduct the viva-voce of candidates who had come from different parts of the country seeking admission to various academic programmes," the administration said in a statement.
 
 Students, however, refuted the claim and said that Asif was a teacher of Persian and did not have the professional qualification to be the dean of SAA. "He was only recently appointed as a professor and there has been controversy over his recruitment in the past as well," a student of the centre said.
 
 Putting the onus on   ( ) and JNU Students' Union (JNUSU), the administration said that they "have common cause to make baseless allegations against the administration and launch agitations. Their activities have created a negative ambiance in the campus affecting the career of a vast number of students".
 
 JNUTA has called for a three-day strike from Monday against the administration's decision Students also claimed that the administration was attempting to curb voices of students who are demanding the suspension of JNU professor  , who has been accused of sexual harassment. 
 
 
 
 
 
