CHANDIGARH: With the participation of more than 100 delegates, a two-day Model United Nations (MUN) started at GGDSD College on Saturday. The delegates with international representation from Japan, France, Brazil and Thailand and from different parts of the country are participating in the MUN. This is the 5th   being hosted by the college. The theme of this year’s MUN is ‘FEN NIEUW BEGIN’ which means ‘New Beginning.’

 Inaugurating the MUN, principal of the college   highlighted the importance of forums like MUN. “The world needs to solve issues amicably through intelligent and focused dialogue. Forums like the MUN help provide an intellectual platform for exchange of ideas and to stimulate young minds to think about nation building, world progress and world peace. It arms the future leaders and diplomats with the necessary skills to negotiate effectively and contribute meaningfully to society.”
 
 Director of S D MUN Dr   focussed on the aim of the conference, which is to educate, engage and empower the students in the realm of global issues facing world. “The MUN programme allows students to take on the role of diplomats of foreign countries in simulation of UN committee meetings. It provides the perfect platform to sharpen research and deliberation skills of the students, thus shaping the minds of future diplomats and valuable citizens of the country,” he said. 
 
 Teacher in-charge of SD MUN Dr   emphasised on the peer learning by the students during the MUN. “It is a learning platform and by listening to the ideas presented by the peer, everyone takes home a fresh perspective and enhanced knowledge about the issues troubling the world and the possible solutions to the problems,” she shared.
 
 The committees of this year’s MUN include   (DISEC), United Nations Commission on status of women, all India stakeholders meet,   (historic) and international press. The students also presented a cultural programme on the inauguration of the conference. The event was jointly organised by the departments of English and political science of the college.
 
 
