GhZIABAD: Four men accused of smuggling and bootlegging of liquor in   Colony surrendered in a local court on Wednesday.

 These men were among eight people named as accused in a case at Khoda police station on Tuesday after they had fled leaving behind their vehicles near Delhi border, with a large consignment of smuggled liquor inside.
 
 Dilip Rana, Bunty alias Kalia, Mintu Masala and Ranjit Mondal gave themselves up before judicial magistrate Renu Yadav, who sent them to judicial custody for 14 days. 
 
 Police said their accomplices — Ravi Yadav, Jiti alias Jeetender, Bunty Chauhan and Ravi Khari — are yet to be arrested.
 
 Police said all the eight were involved in smuggling of liquor from across Delhi and selling them in Khoda Colony after packaging the same in bottles of popular brands. Four men who died in Khoda Colony earlier this month drank spurious liquor packaged in bottles of Party Special, a brand popular in Haryana. 
 
 However, cops are yet to get the chemical analysis reports of the alcohol samples from the forensic science laboratory in Agra.
 
 On Tuesday, the four men men had left behind an SUV bearing a flag of BJP and an   motorcycle at Ambedkar Gate of Khoda Colony adjoining Ghazipur in Delhi after spotting a police team. From the SUV, police had recovered 480 quarter bottles of foreign liquor that were sealed and 96 bottles that were unsealed. Besides, five litres of illicit liquor inside a jerry can and five kg urea were also recovered. The bottles seized had the brand labels of Crazy Romeo and Impact upon them, cops said.
 
 “The number plates of both the vehicles were found to be fake after verification. The engine number and chassis number of the vehicles had also been scarred, probably using a chemical that had rendered it illegible. We are trying to ascertain the actual registration numbers of the vehicle as well as their owners,” Khoda’s circle officer Dharmendra Chauhan told TOI.
 
 Ghaziabad BJP district president   said the seized vehicle did not belong to any of party member. “The men who have been named as accused in the FIR also do not have any links whatsoever with our party. Criminal elements have been using flags belonging to the party to hoodwink police and enforcement authorities,” he said.
 
 The four who died in Khoda Colony on March 13 had bought the liquor from a woman — the widow of   — who used to sell alcohol bottles from her house in Shankar Vihar. Police then said the liquor was packaged in bottles of Party Special.
 
 
