MYSURU: Daily revision of   prices has had an adverse impact on the revenues of the state-run   (KSRTC), and private bus operators. The   city division of  , which operates 430 routes daily, reportedly incurs a loss of Rs 2 lakh every day owing to the fluctuations in the price of the fuel. Private bus operators, some of whom operate as many as 80 routes daily, too have suffered losses as a result of the daily hike in the price of diesel.

 KSRTC’s urban division controller, Mysuru, MN Srinivas told STOI, “The price of diesel has increased by Rs 8 per litre in the past six months. We operate 456 buses, which need 25,000 litres of diesel every day. Owing to the hike in diesel prices, our expenses have shot up by Rs 2 lakh per day.”
 
 On the question of the revision in ticket fare that could possibly offset the losses incurred by the corporation, Srinivas refused to comment. “These decisions will be taken by the central division,” he said.
 
 However, other officials in KSRTC believe that a 15 to 20% hike in the ticket fares could ward off a financial crisis. “This problem is not confined to a single division. All the divisions are incurring huge losses owing to revision of diesel prices. Although the new government may not increase the fuel price, this problem is likely to persist for a few more weeks,” a KSRTC official told STOI.
 
 Understandably,   are staunchly opposed to proposals of hike in ticket fares. “When there was a dip in the diesel prices a year ago, KSRTC did not pass the benefit to passengers, claiming other financial troubles. Since diesel prices are expected to come down in the next few weeks, the government must not allow KSRTC to revise prices,” said Sunanda, a regular commuter and resident of BHML Colony.
 
 On the other hand, private bus operators too have had to bear the brunt of hike in diesel prices. Their troubles have been compounded by the refusal of the transport department and district administration to revise their ticket prices. “We cannot increase the fare till the Regional Transport Office (RTO) clears the proposal. But the authorities are not ready to consider our demands. Daily revision of diesel prices has become a big headache for us,” said Raju Gundlupet, a private bus operator.
 
 
