HYDERABAD: In all probability, a month from now, the majestic   in the   will wear a new look as works are going on at a brisk pace.

 Ten skilled workers, who are experts in painting historical monuments, are busy chiselling and giving the much-needed facelift to the Darbar Hall. With chief minister   firm on restoring the lost glory, the general administration (protocol) and roads and buildings (R&B) departments are sparing no efforts to renovate the royal structure and convert the legislative council hall into a meeting hall for organising official meetings.
 
 All the chairs and tables which were part of the council hall (Darbar Hall) have been removed. Sources said the chairs will be painted afresh and placed inside the meeting hall. Plaster of Paris, wooden and electric wiring works began simultaneously a few days ago. “The government wants the works completed within two weeks,” R&B sources told 
 .
 
 “Even minute details are taken into account while carrying out the works under the supervision of senior GAD officials. There will be no compromise with the interior portions of the iconic Darbar Hall and historicity of the structure,” a senior official said.   conservationists have kicked up a furore against tampering the facade.
 
 Works on painting the throne, which was built during the regime of   (VIIth Nizam), have also begun. “The painting works will be completed in a week,” sources said. Ninety seats will be arranged for officials and media for important review meetings in the Darbar Hall.
 
 “We sent the proposal to GAD for final approval and expecting to get a response in a day or two,” they added.
 
 A dining hall, constructed during the last Nizam’s regime, is also being renovated. A new modern kitchen will come up to cook and serve the officials and other dignitaries attending the official meetings with the chief minister. “There is also a proposal to arrange a dining table with 20-25 seating capacity. But the logistics are yet to be worked out,” the R&B sources added.
 
 
