Fans of  , former cricketer and skipper of the Indian team, were an excited lot recently when the   arrived in Coimbatore for a quick visit. The cricketer was in the city to take part in a walkathon organised by the All India Opthamological Society. Stressing on fitness in everyday life, Dada Ganguly, said, “We should ensure we live a healthy life. The best mantra to follow is early to bed, early to rise. I think the country is gradually getting used to fitness. I see marathons happening every month in different parts of India. A small walk or workout is essential every day to stay fit. I run a lot. When I used to play cricket, I used to do 18-20 laps of Eden Garden every day. Now, in my 40s, I am into fast-paced workouts. I run to stay fit and play badminton. During 20s, we all stay slim. But, when age catches up, work load increases and there is no time, we don’t consider health a priority. But, we should ensure we are active and healthy.”

 When quizzed about who would win the IPL this season, Ganguly said, “It could be anybody. Rajasthan is good this year, Punjab, Mumbai and Kolkata are good. Delhi has got stronger.   is a good franchise. There are a lot of good teams. The new auctions have actually balanced the teams. Anybody could win it.”
 
 When world cricket is getting used to day and night test matches, India is yet to host its first one. What’s Ganguly’s view on the same? “We should have day and night test matches. Why not? It’s been going all around the world. Australia, England, Sharjah and South Africa have it. It is going to start some day in India. But, what are the logistics and reasoning; only time will say.” With the number of leagues growing by the day and almost every country having a   league, Ganguly says T20 is the future of cricket. “T20 is a must for cricket in this world. Without T20 cricket cannot survive.”
 
 Talking about his first visit to Coimbatore, dada Ganguly, says, “This is my first visit to Coimbatore. I came out of the airport and drove down the road to the hotel. I must say it’s a lovely city. It has a lot of space and is very clean. The only drawback in Tamil Nadu is that it’s quite hot here. I remember when I started playing; I think I was 13 or 14 years old. I use to play in Chepauk and it was hot and tough days of cricket. When Australia and England toured India, we used to first send them to Chennai and Kochi. By the time, they finished one test match, they would want to go back home.”
 
 Ganguly also doled out few words of motivation. “According to me, what’s important to succeed is to put in a lot of hard work. At the end of the day, be it in business, sports or life, one needs to put in their efforts. Hard work never goes waste and while at it, make sure to stay focused.”
 
