BHOPAL: An   is ready, but the   has again hit a wall with   objecting to UP’s demand for 900   during Kharif season.

 Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan met Union minister Nitin Gadkari and appraised him of the issues and Gadkari was reportedly convinced, said sources. “Our objections are valid. Why should UP ask for 150 MCM extra water in rainy season? The Union minister agreed to the objections and said that every CM should take state affairs on priority,” said an officer privy to the discussions at the meeting.
 
 There are some other issues, including financial matters, which are likely to be resolved soon. Gadkari has assured Chouhan that his objections would be discussed with UP to find solutions.
 
 Meanwhile, the water resources department of MP is preparing a month-wise requirement of water from the project. UP has already submitted its part. 
 
 Last week, the Centre had sent the final draft of an MoU to be signed by chief ministers Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Yogi Adithyanath and Union minister of water resources Nitin Gadkari. The project was stuck on water sharing between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. On January 19, Gadkari had reportedly warned that this project would be scrapped if the issues were not resolved.
 
 Based on MP’s government’s recommendation, the planning for Lower Orr, Bina Complex, Kotha Barrage projects and additional command have been included in the DPR, say sources. And, based on comments of UP government, repair and strengthening of Barriyarpur pick up Weir, Parichha weir, Barwa Sagar dam along with appurtenant structure and 7.1km long Barwa Nallah to carry water from Barwa Sagar to Betwa River upstream of existing Paricha weir have been included. It’s decided that 1,700 MCM of water would be allotted to UP.
 
 Gadkari, who took over as water resources minister on September 3, had invited Chouhan and Yogi Adityanath for a meeting to settle the issue. Both states have agreed to go by the 2005 agreement signed by the then chief ministers. It has also been decided that Panna will get a share of water for irrigating 70,000 hectares of land.
 
 
