PUNE: The donation of a 21-year-old brain-dead man’s organs facilitated the second cadaver kidney transplant at the   hospital on Sunday. While the donor’s other kidney benefited a man suffering end-stage renal disease at the   (ABMH) on the same day, his liver gave a new lease of life to a 39-year-old physics researcher at   (DMH).

 The donor hailed from Sangli district and had been living in Pune city, in the Lohegaon area, doing odd jobs as a labourer with his wife. On January 3, he was admitted to Sassoon hospital with grievous head injuries, which were a result of a fall brought about by an electric shock.
 
 He was declared brain dead at around 8.40 pm on January 5. “His family, including his wife and parents, were counselled. They understood the importance of organ donation and consented to donate the man’s liver, two kidneys and the corneas,” said senior spine surgeon Ajay Chandanwale, who is also the dean of the B J Medical College attached to Sassoon  .
 
 The retrieval of his kidneys began at around 11.30 pm on Saturday. One of his kidneys was successfully transplanted into a 41-year-old labourer at around 3 am on Sunday. The recipient had been suffering from chronic kidney diseases for the last four years. “This was the second cadaver kidney transplant at Sassoon hospital in past one-and-half years. This shows that the government hospitals are on par with private hospitals and can offer hope to poor patients who cannot afford expensive transplant treatments at private hospitals,” Chandanwale added.
 
 The kidney transplant surgery was carried out by a team of experts including Shashikala Sangle, Niranjan Ambekar, Abhay Sadre, Rohidas Borse, Suresh Patankar, Kamlesh Bokil, Shardul Date, Sanyogita Naik, Sachin Bhujbal, Abhijeet Patil, Hari Haran, Kirankumar Jadhav, Santosh Thorat, Avishkar Barase, Sarfaraj Pathan, Sagar Bhalerao, Amit Bhangale and Bharati Daswani.
 
 Shilpa Barve, the transplant coordinator at DMH, said, “The liver has been successfully transplanted into a 39-year-old assistant professor from Pune. He was diagnosed with a viral infection-induced liver disease for last one-and-half years.”
 
 Incidentally, Sassoon hospital has taken a lead in organ donation in Maharashtra. Over the last one-and-half years, it has retrieved 21 organs including hearts, livers and kidneys from six brain-dead people that benefitted 21 patients. The retrieved organs were allocated to different Pune hospitals.
 
 
