KOLKATA: A day after a 17-year- old boy was killed in an accident after his bike’s handle got entangled in cables hanging loosely on Park Circus bridge No. 4, the police have arrested a 37-year-old cable operator from   for being allegedly negligent, leaving the cables dangling on the road. The accused has been identified as  .

 “He is the owner of Sama Cable located at Avinash Chowdhury Lane. He has been charged with negligence,” said DC (southeast) Kalyan Mukherjee. Hossain, who was produced in court on Tuesday, was later granted bail.
 
 
  Meanwhile, the  , which gives permission to cable service providers for hanging wires on the civic body’s lamp posts, is planning a ban on the practice Police sources said that they have asked their beat officers to identify similar cables dangling on major thoroughfares in central and southeast Kolkata, which are densely populated.   police said they have already snapped such wires dangling on to the road in at least two different places located close to bridge number 4 in Park Circus. The local police are likely to hold a meeting in this respect with cable operators where the traffic cops may also be present.
 
 Victim Md  , a Class-XI student, was not wearing a helmet and did not have alicence when the accident took place around 7.15am on Monday. He was heading towards a relative’s place in Topsia on his father’s bike.
 
 Police said the action was necessary to ensure locals’ safety. After the incident, locals had blocked the road alleging police inaction concerning multiple accidents in the area due to loose cables. They budged after cops snapped all the loose cables in the area. The protesters said most of these were cable TV and defunct telephone wires.
 
 A senior KMC official of the electrical department said: “We have decided that no permission will be granted to the cable operators for using our lamp posts. Rather, we will insist on laying cables underground.” The civic official said a team would also conduct surprise borough-wise checks.
 
 
 
 
 The KMC and cops should launch an immediate crackdown on this menace. The reaction from government agencies is welcome but they need to be proactive and look out for these problems.
 
 
