KOTA: Veteran social activist and leader of movement for   on Friday urged people to teach a lesson to Narendra   government for its anti-farmer policies.

 Hazare was speaking at a public meeting in Anna Chowk at   in   on Friday where he was warmly greeted by various social and public trade organizations.
 
 Narendra Modi government at Centre has failed to work for the interest of the farmers, however, it came to power by making public alluring promises, he said and claimed that Modi government is more concerned about industrialists than farmers. The farmers in the country are forced to commit suicide and the number of unemployed people are rising manifold, he said, adding if the governments in the country had been pro-farmers, 12 lakh of farmers in last 22 years would not have committed suicide.
 
 For the farmers of the country, he would wage a battle in Ramlila Maidan in New Delhi from March 23, Anna announced and demanded the government should constitute agriculture commission and render it a constitutional status.
 
 Terming the situation in the country as grave and worrisome, Anna said public holds the key of the government and they should teach the government a lesion in democratic manner.
 
 The farmers in the country are not getting their rightful return and are even striving for minimum support price for their yield, he said, adding the farmer today is deprived of electricity at concessional price and of water for irrigation as it is not supplied to the tail end of the canals.
 
 Hazare slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying that Modi himself promised that he would neither indulge in corruption nor allow anyone to do so but the corruption cases, constantly surfacing, are apt to raise questions at his style of functioning. Now, it is time for the public to wake up and they must democratically elect the government that can work for the interest of public in general, the veteran social activist said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Anna held interaction with coaching students in Sauhard Sabhagar Parisar. Giving five success mantras of positive behaviour, positive thought, good character, forgiving and sacrificing nature, Hazare appealed the students to work towards the betterment of the society and nation. The nation is our temple and humanity should be worshiped just like god. Today, the whole nation is his family and it is the pleasure derived from working towards the society that keeps him energetic and motivated at the age of 80, Hazare told students.
 
 "I have managed to lead life without any accusations which have helped me to lead the fight against corruption. After the successful introduction of the right to information, six ministers and about 400 activists had to give up their positions,” he said.
 
 The veteran social activist appreciated Kota saying whole India study in Kota and whole India seems to dwelling in Kota as thousands of students visit here every year to become successful engineers and doctors.
 
 Hazera later in the day attended several other public program and held interaction with media persons at Meet the press programme in press club, Kota in the evening.
 
 
