CHANDRAPUR: Chief minister   has ordered CID inquiry against   activist  , his associate and two electronic media journalists.

 BJP corporator-cum-contractor Raju   had alleged that Bele and his accomplices were blackmailing him for money with the threat of airing false news about substandard work being done at Irai river. BJP sources confirmed that the CM’s office has issued orders (wide letter no. 2831488/2018). 
 
 RTI activist Bele had earlier accused contractor Goliwar of doing substandard work while constructing wall along the bank of the river to protect the city from floods, which occurs every year during monsoons. As the allegations were made against him, Goliwar had allegedly threatened Bele to eliminate him. The audio clip of the phone conversation between Bele and Goliwar in which the latter is threatening the RTI activist had also went viral on WhatsApp. Later in a press conference, Goliwar had admitted to issuing the threat in fit of rage as he was mentally disturbed due to blackmailing by Bele. He also alleged that Bele was demanding Rs 2 lakh and the journalists duo Rs30,000 to hush up the matter. Goliwar also admitted to have agreed to pay Rs 10,000 to the two journalists.
 
 Bele had lodged a complaint with Ramnagar police against Goliwar for issuing life threat. However, his case was registered as non-cognizable offence. On the other hand, following Goliwar’s complaint, an offence under relevant charges for blackmailing and extortion was registered against Bele. 
 
 Meanwhile, the RTI activist demanded that Goliwar be booked for paying bribe to the journalists, the fact which he himself had revealed before the press. However, police took no action. Distressed Goliwar filed a complaint with the CM seeking CID inquiry against Bele, his associate Nitin Gadge and journalists Umesh Tapase and Tansheel Pathan, BJP sources said.
 
 Demanding probe into the quality of work done by the BJP corporator-cum-contractor Goliwar, Bele and his associate are on indefinite hunger strike from January 18. They have also demanded probe into the wealth amassed by Goliwar.
 
 
