BENGALURU: Five members of a family, including three kids, were killed on the spot and four others sustained serious injuries when their car rammed a stationary truck near Kunigal in Tumakuru, early Monday morning. 

  Preliminary investigations revealed that about 10 members of the family from Mandya were travelling towards a temple in  , near Tumakuru, in their brand new Maruti Ertiga, to celebrate the New Year. 
 
   , 61, his daughter-in-law Ushabai H, 35, and his grandchildren Keerthan, 7,  , 3, and Bhuvan, 16, were killed instantly. Siddoji's wife, his son Harish Rao, Satish Rao, Naveen and Ashwini Rao, who suffered injuries, were shifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Siddoji was in the cocoon business and had purchased the Maruti Ertiga on December 28, police said. The licence plate had not yet been fixed, police added. 
 
  According to police, the accident occurred around 6am near Gavimatha. A four-year-old kid ran on to the road and Naveen, who was at the wheel, lost control of the vehicle while trying to avoid the child. "The car brushed against the child, injuring his right leg. Naveen could not get the car to stop and  ," police said. 
 
  The impact of the accident was so severe that the car was reduced to a mangle of metal and the heads of Siddoji Rao and Ushabai were thrown on to the road. 
 
  "Siddoji Rao had constructed a new house in Mandya and entered it only in November 2017. The family decided to visit the temple in Goravanahalli in their new car and had left home at 4.30am," police said. 
 
 
 
 
 Four men, including a student, were killed during New Year celebrations. The first killing was reported from JP Nagar, where Amit Kumar, 20, a II year MBA student of a private college on Kanakapura Road, succumbed to stab injuries around midnight. Amit, a resident of Shakhambarinagar, visited a liquor joint with his friends. “They were later seen fighting outside the bar. Then someone stabbed him. Alerted by passersby, police rushed to the spot and shifted Amit to a nearby private hospital where he died,” police said.
 
 Amrit, a security guard, stabbed his friend Hemanth Kumar, a cab driver, over a petty issue. Shivaram, 25, a painter, was stabbed to death by his friends in Kasavanahalli, southeast Bengaluru. Police said Shivaram and his friends visited abar and a verbal altercation broke out. “Shivaram is said to have objected the quality of the cake his friends had purchased, and abused them. Seven of his friends were detained .
 
 In Cottonpet, a daily-wage worker was found lying on the road with stab injuries. He died in hospital. Police suspect he was killed by his friends.
 
