KOLKATA: He has completed five mini-marathons. He aims to complete a half-marathon next year, and praying that his doctors allow him to take part in the full 42km race.  , the first   patient from Bengal has not only fully recovered two years after the complex procedure, he is fighting fit and raring to go.

 
 
  
 
 On Monday, when 
  contacted him, Roy was having the time of his life with his family, holidaying in Singapore... till he learned about the heart transplant in Kolkata on Monday. Since then, he started feeling restless. “I wish I were in Kolkata. I didn’t want to miss this opportunity. This is a great day for the transplant movement in Kolkata,” he said.
 
 Had this come two years ago, Roy might not have had to spend months in Chennai, awaiting his turn. Roy had been operated at Fortis Malar, Chennai, two years ago — on July 31, 2016 — with Dr K R Balakrishnan and Dr Suresh Rao, the same doctors who were part of the transplant on Monday in Kolkata, at the helm of affairs. A year earlier, Roy had been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the heart’s ability to pump blood is lessened because one or more chambers is enlarged and weakened. A resident of Tangra, Roy started losing weight and appetite at an alarming rate. He had bouts of uncontrollable cough, accompanied by streaks of blood in the sputum and breathlessness. A test revealed all four chambers of his heart were dilated.
 
 “I used to be perpetually exhausted and dizzy. I was initially under the treatment of Dr Santanu Datta at SSKM Hospital. He knew that I could survive only if I underwent a transplant and connected me to Dr Balakrishnan, as Kolkata did not have a heart transplant facility. I was then put under intravenous drugs to improve cardiac output. Some ancillary drugs were also given to reduce the quantum of fluid in my body,” Roy recounted. After a nearly three-month wait in Chennai, a heart was available that matched Roy’s, and it was a go. After the operation, he took three months to recover. “The recovery depends on the individual’s capacity. The time frame is different depending on age, the health of the kidney and several other factors,” a doctor said.
 
 This winter, Roy competed and successfully completed five minimarathons. He started with a 5km run and did two 10km and two 15km runs thereafter. Next year, he is aiming to do 21km, and then, if the doctor permits, the full 42km distance. “The same hands that conducted the transplant surgery on me are involved in this one. They are like God to me. I am sure this recipient, too, will get back on his feet very soon,” said the   official.
 
 Roy himself has not looked back after the transplant. He goes out for jogging at least four days a week in the mornings. And, in summers, he works out on the treadmill regularly before going to work.
 
 So, how is he enjoying the holiday? “I did a bit of swimming, took a dip in the South China Sea in the Perhentian Islands, played with my son in the sea, did some rounds of shopping with my wife. I am thankful to my donor for having given me a new life,” he told 
 .
 
 After the Malacca Strait, Langkawi, Perhentian Island, Goerge Town and Kuala Lumpur, the family is now camping in Singapore. Roy will fly back to the city in the next few days.
 
 Though always active in sports, professional life had robbed Roy the luxury of sporting activities. He would, however exercise regularly until breathlessness caused by his heart condition restricted physical activity. This athleticism helped him recover. A couple of months after the surgery, he started walking regularly as advised by doctors, almost 4km daily. This helped him prepare for marathons.
 
 “I wish the organ donation and transplant momentum gains momentum in Bengal. I am sure there will be no dearth of organ donors once we put in a concerted effort,” he signed off.
 
 
