BENGALURU: Five years since the gang rape and murder of   shook the country, a proposal to install   cameras in all   and   buses to ensure safety of women passengers is yet to take off. Union minister Maneka Gandhi recently claimed CCTVs in buses are ineffective in preventing incidents of molestation and the ministry of women and child development (MWCD) is not keen on releasing Nirbhaya scheme funds for the purpose. 

 KSRTC officials said they had submitted proposals worth Rs 54.5 crore to MWCD for four initiatives under the Nirbhaya scheme. Among the four projects, KSRTC had sought Rs 35.4 crore for CCTVs and video surveillance and monitoring systems in 2000 buses, bus stations and other places. A KSRTC official said MWCD recently sanctioned Rs 32.7 crore (60%) under the Nirbhaya scheme. The state will have to bear the remaining Rs 21.8 crore.
 
 “We have requested MWCD to extend financial assistance to install CCTVs at least at bus stations,” said S R Umashankar, KSRTC managing director.
 
 Separately, BMTC had also sought funds to instal CCTV cameras in buses under the Nirbhaya scheme. At present, only 600 buses have cameras. BMTC had planned cameras in at least 1,000 buses.
 
 Nagaraj Yadav, BMTC chairman, said, “It’s unfortunate that the Centre is denying funds. CCTV cameras in buses are no longer a luxury. It is a necessity to ensure safety of women passengers.”
 
 KSRTC has also proposed women drivers, conductors training and infrastructure (Rs 7.8 crore), women related facilities at bus stations (Rs 5.8 crore) and women awareness and gender sensitization (Rs 5.4 crore) under the Nirbhaya scheme.
 
 ‘Relax   bus conditions’
 
 Meanwhile, the Association of Road Transport Undertaking (ASRTU) has urged the department of heavy industries (DHI) to relax conditions to obtain subsidy for the induction of electric buses.
 
 S R Umashankar, vice-president of ASRTU, an umbrella organization of state road transport undertakings in the country, said: "DHI recently said they could provide subsidy only to SRTUs who purchase electric buses under the Centre’s Faster Adoption & Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme. But most SRTUs like BMTC in Bengaluru and BEST in Mumbai cannot afford electric buses so they were planning to induct buses on lease.”
 
 He said DHI had earlier promised subsidy to SRTUs who induct electric buses on lease, but it has now reversed its stand. The Centre recently extended the deadline for the FAME scheme for the third time till September this year because of the poor response to the initiative. "Electric buses are cheaper and environmental friendly but the recent decision of DHI would prevent most SRTUs from inducting electric buses,” Umashankar said.
 
 
 
  
 
