THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three major government projects that will require   of 37.37 acres of wetland and paddy land has been given final clearance by the government on the basis of the latest amendment in the   of paddy land and wetland Act, 2008, that if required for public purpose, exemptions can be given. 

 The projects are   of the   in the capital, waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram in Kochi and GAIL pipeline projects in Kozhikode and Malappuram. Along with the permission for the conversion of the land for the projects, the government has also mandatorily earmarked 3.87 acres for conversion for setting up water conservation initiatives (rainwater harvesting, ponds.
 
 The cabinet had given exemptions to these projects from the ambit of the Act on the basis of the amendment made in the section 10. The amendment was made through an ordinance promulgated on December 30 last year that said that "the government may grant exemption from the provisions of the Act if such conversion or reclamation is essential for any public purpose and shall notify in the official gazette". Along with it, the government had also introduced a clause that if the parcel of land where the exemption is granted is more than 20.2 ares, 10% of the land should be set apart for water conservancy measures. 
 
 The largest chunk of wetland among these is the 21.27 acres at Attipra village in the capital for the development of the Technopark. The development of phase-3 of the project was held up as wetland area was part of the land earmarked for expansion. The decision will help the project to move ahead. The government has ordered that 2.24 acres of the land parcel should be kept apart for water conservation initiatives.
 
 The GAIL pipeline project that is facing serious opposition in rural areas of Kozhikode and Malappuram district will also get a breather. The land allocated for setting up GAIL sectionalising valve stations at Unnikkulam and Puthur villages in Kozhikode and Kodur village in Malappuram had wetland areas. The waste-to-energy project at Brahmapuram has been accorded permission with the condition that that a water conservation project will be set up in 1.36 acres.
 
 
