THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   have been reported in the  , published by the controller of   (CEE), for the counselling of postgraduate medical courses. 

 The irregularities or manipulations have been found in the incentive marks awarded to the in-service candidates who want to pursue postgraduate courses.
 
 An MBBS doctor, who is working with Paripally Medical College in Kollam, has been given incentive marks for rural service though this college does not fall under the rural hospital category.
 
 Interestingly, the said hospital had started functioning under the state government two years ago, but the candidate has been awarded four years of rural service while working in this hospital. With this incentive, the candidate, who was ranked 7,376 earlier, is now ranked 157 in the final list.
 
 The rural service and difficult rural service incentive marks are given to MBBS doctors who are working in the hospitals that come under the category. Only the hospitals under the directorate of health service (DHS) come under this category.
 
 However, there has been last minute changes in the list of in-service candidates submitted by the DHS. When the final list of 111 was released by the CEE, 11 candidates are from outside the list submitted by the DHS.
 
 "It is learnt that among the 11 candidates at least six are from the medical colleges and other from ESI hospitals. But it is strange as to how these hospitals come under the rural service category when none of these hospitals are situated in the rural areas,'' said one of the rank holders.
 
 Besides, higher rural service incentives have been given to those who have done only one year of rural service.
 
 Though the rank holders approached the directorate of medical education and DHS with a complaint against the final list published for the counselling, they did not get a favourable response. "Now we have decided to approach the high court against the list since several deserving candidates will be losing their opportunity to get PG admission in government medical colleges," said Dr Rahul U R of Kerala Medical Post Graduate Association.
 
 
