LUCKNOW: Urging the people of   to extend their  ,   said that apart from attracting  , those coming to the state should be motivated to invest emotionally as well.

 Speaking at the closing ceremony of two-day Investors’ Summit on Thursday, the President said: “Investors had shown great enthusiasm due to progressive governance and forward-looking policies. But the task of taking the state forward is not just of the government. All residents are partners in the development of this state."
 
 Appreciating the Yogi government for giving top priority to education, he said that investing in human resources was utmost important. “The UP government has made a very substantial provision for education in its recent budget. The resources will be used for school as well technical and higher education. The said investment will have far-reaching benefits for young talent in the state,” the President said.
 
 While pointing towards UP government’s One-District-One-Product scheme, he said that lessons should be learnt from countries such as Italy and France to enhance earnings and increase employment through branding and marketing of traditional handicrafts.
 
 The President said that Uttar Pradesh was a state of farmers and added that they have shown great determination in accepting modern technologies. He also stressed the need for developing the entire agri-value chain so that small farmers could sell their produce at a fair price, and large investors can develop cold storages, other infrastructure, and have good marketing facilities.
 
 Earlier, governor Ram Naik, while narrating his conversation with PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday, said that the PM as overwhelmed by the UP Investors’ Summit 2018 and admitted the the summit undoubtedly surpassed similar events held in Gujarat.
 
 Focussing on migration of workers to cities like Mumbai, Naik said that since he came from Mumbai he could say that despite Mumbai being a financial capital of the country has 65% population still living in slum. He added that they come to Mumbai in search of work. He said if UP had industries, the people of the state will not leave for other destination in search of work. In a way it would do good the social situation in the country,” Naik said.
 
 The CM said after unveiling of one-district-one-product scheme on January 24, which was the first step towards moving UP on the path of development, the Investors’ Summit was the next.
 
 
