NEW DELHI: Eyeing the red bastion of   — where the Left has been in power since 1993 — in the forthcoming February elections, BJP and   leaders held a meeting on Sunday at Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s residence.
 
  The leaders discussed election strategy for Tripura, Meghalaya and Nagaland, people familiar with the meeting said. BJP is set to begin its campaign from this week itself.
  
  BJP will bank on its most-dependable face, Prime Minister  , in the upcoming assembly elections. PM Modi is expected to hold two rallies in Tripura — in north Tripura and south Tripura districts — towards the end of January.
  
  BJP may have high ambitions of forming a government in Tripura, but faces an uphill task. It could manage only 1.4% votes in the last assembly elections in 2013 and all its candidates had lost their deposit. However, this time the party is confident as it has poached   and Trinamool Congress leaders. All six Trinamool MLAs and one of the three Congress legislators in the present assembly defected to BJP recently.
  
  The Left Front is in power in Tripura since 1993, while   has been CM since 1998. Sarkar government has more than a two-thirds majority with 51 MLAs in the 60-member assembly.
  
  “There is strong anti-incumbency against the Left government here and we are talking about Parivartan (change). Only the CPM flagbearers have got benefits from the government. The state is still backward while the rest of the country has progressed. Moreover, people here like Modi and will vote for us,” BJP state in-charge Sunil Deodhar told ET.
  
  BJP is in talks with Indigenous Peoples’ Front of Tripura (IPFT), an anti-Left organisation that has been demanding separate statehood, for an alliance. Though the two parties are ideologically different, BJP is not averse to a tie-up for electoral gains.   has a presence in around six assembly seats of the state, sources said.
  
  BJP has already pressed Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath into campaigning in Tripura. However, Deodhar claims this is to influence the Nath and Deonath followers who swear by Yogi Adityanath and the Gorakhnath Mutt. These followers want OBC status but the Left has not heeded to their demand. BJP is likely to make this a poll promise.
  
  Union minister  , Nitin Gadkari and Smriti Irani are slated to campaign in the state in the coming days. The party has also worked on building its cadre in Tripura in the last two years and claims to have workers from the booth level and upwards. A rally by BJP chief   in Ambassa last week was well-attended.
  
  The BJP campaign will pick up soon. Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who heads the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), will inaugurate BJP’s election office in Agartala on January 16. Sarma is also handling the talks with IPFT and will play an active role in ticket distribution and preparing the BJP campaign strategy.
  
  However, BJP faces a tough challenge from the Left as it still has a strong cadre and its supporters are ideologically opposed to BJP.
  
  
