Remember  , Vidyut Jamwal’s leading lady in Commando? The former   was in the city recently to attend a friend’s wedding. We caught up with the beauty-queen-turned-actress on her way to airport for a heart-to-heart chat in which she spoke about why she loves Hyderabad, her upcoming film Aiyaary and her desire to venture into Tollywood. Excerpts:

 
 
 What fascinates me about Hyderabad is its people — they are really nice. I have a bunch of good friends here. And the food is just amazing — the biryani, the Osmania biscuits, the Irani chai, I love everything. Recently I went to the Old City and went around the markets of Charminar. It was so unlike Mumbai! I gorged on rusk toast sold on carts and bought loads of bangles from Laad Bazaar. I had blast and felt spoilt and pampered.
 
 
 
 What I love most about the Hyderabad is Tollywood. I have heard so much about the work culture, discipline and talent that thrives here, it’s exceptional. I want to venture into Telugu film industry and do good work. I am waiting for a Tollywood director to offer me a good project. And if the film features Mahesh Babu, Venkatesh, Nagarjuna or Bunny, I am not going to charge anything (laughs ). It’s going to be a fangirl’s wish coming true!
 
 
 
 Once you win a beauty pageant people start seeing you as a Barbie doll. But I have a lot more to offer than just a pretty face or a fit body. My next film, Aiyaary will prove my acting chops. It was offered to me after director Neeraj Pandey was impressed with my work in his short film Ouch. I am playing an army intelligence officer, Captain   in the film. It’s a completely performance driven character. Maya is a no-nonsense, highly disciplined and motivated girl who is extremely dedicated and focussed about her work. The film revolves around the equation between   and   who play the mentor and protégé respectively. My character is the link that connects the whole fiasco in the film.
 
 
 
 We were floored by Kashmiri cuisine. Early in the morning, after coming to the sets we used to place our order for lunch and look forward to it the whole time. And in-between we would binge a lot. Neeraj sir is a very serious taskmaster. So we used to be in character during the shoot. But once it’s over there was no stopping us.   would set off to explore the place on cycle; I loved to explore the picturesque scenery of Kashmir, especially Pahalgam, on foot. 
 
 
 
 Neeraj sir was keen on using shooting with real BSF jawans, not junior artistes. Working with them was a life changing experience. They told us stories — heart-wrecking ones. “Hum jab jung ke liye upar jate hain base camp se, hum ek dusre ko gale lagke kahte hai, kismat mein rahi to fir milenge aur haste haste chale jate hai”, told one jawaan. It broke our heart. We wondered how these people can be so brave! They told us stories about how their friends stepped on the landmines and were shredded to pieces, bodies bhi nhi mili. That day our respect for the Indian Army increased by 10 times. We sleep soundly in our homes every night because they are guarding us putting their lives on the line, leaving their families, friends and everything behind. We have decided to meet BSF jawans as part of our promotional campaign, thank them for their deeds and put a smile on their faces. I am looking forward to it.
 
 
 Manoj sir ke saath toh mentor-protégé relationship baan chukka hai; though he doesn’t consider me one. If I go to him and ask for advice, he would say, “Merese to pucho mat. Aaj bhi Ouch dekhke sochta hoon yeh ladki ne kya performance diya tha. Tum mere student lagti nhi ho. Tum aapne aap se bohut achha karogi.” And then I would run to Neeraj sir. With Sid it was more fun. We would kid around, play finger fight, push each other to prove who’s stronger.
 
 
 
 People look outside to find their hero, but my hero is at home, my mother. She is not just a home-maker, she brought us up in midst of a lot of difficulty. She has been through a lot and I salute her for being the strong woman that she is. Not many women have the courage to walk out of their marriage and raise two kids all by themselves. And that too in India of 30 years ago, it was even more difficult. The reason I am determined, focused and 
 ambitious is only because of her.
 
