BENGALURU: Four years after she was unceremoniously dropped from the Indian squad for the Glasgow Commonwealth Games for failing a hyperandrogenism test (commonly known as gender test), ace sprinter and national champion   may again find herself in the cold for the Gold Coast Games with the   ( ) set to strictly apply the qualification guidelines to pick the national squad.

 
 With the national selectors set to meet in Patiala on Thursday night following the end of the Federation Cup athletics meet, a senior Athletics Federation of India official said the panel would mostly go by the AFI selection guidelines to pick the squad for the Games. Asked whether they would consider Dutee, who won the 100m gold in Fed Cup, as a special case the AFI official said that is doubtful.
 
 “It’s unlikely that Dutee will make the cut as her performance is not anywhere near the qualification standard. If we take her then what about the others?” the official said. He, however, added that the panel may discuss her case because of the 2014 fiasco.
 
 Ahead of Glasgow, Dutee, 18 years old then, was part of the Indian squad but her name was scratched at the last minute after Sports Authority of India announced that “a gender test was conducted on a woman athlete in Bengaluru. If she is there in the list of CWG participants, her name will have to be deleted from the list.”
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Dutee sounded upbeat about making the trip to Gold Coast. Not forgetting her traumatic days ahead of Glasgow, the star athlete looked forward to hearing the good news from AFI.
 
 “The CWG qualification mark was even tougher than my personal best. But I hope they will consider my case as I have won the 100m gold in Patiala. Even ahead of the Rio Olympics it was a similar scenario before I made the cut,” Dutee told TOI.
 
 “After the problems in 2014, I returned to the track only after 1 ½ to 2 years. This was the first meet of the season and they had a set a high qualification mark. It would be a great experience to compete in the CWG ahead of the Asian Games where I have a realistic chance of winning a medal. I’ll be happy if I make the cut or else I’ll continue to train hard to prepare for the Asiad,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 National junior long jump champion M Shivashankar, who missed the CWG qualification mark by a whisker when he took the gold in Patiala with a leap of 7.99m, could miss the trip even if the selection panel picks him due to the mistake of the national coaches.
 
 “Shivashankar may not be able to compete as the AFI has not applied for his CWG accreditation. Though he won the junior nationals with a new meet record in November, the AFI coaches didn’t include his name in the first list sent in December,” sources said.
 
 An AFI official said they were hopeful that the organizers would accommodate him. “We have already sent a request to accommodate his name and are hoping for the best,” he said.
 
 Other contenders who came close to meeting the qualifying guidelines include Jinson Johnson (800m & 1500m) and Mohammad Anas (400m).
 
 The selectors’ decisions will be closely watched to see whether they will overlook the claims of promising youngsters and include veterans like triple jumper Renjith Maheswary who also failed to better the qualification mark on Thursday.
 
