PATIALA: Having cracked down on gangsters and organised crime in the state, the Punjab government is planning to review the need of implementing Punjab Control of Organised Crime Act ( ), said health minister   on Sunday.

 Mohindra is heading a cabinet sub-committee which is overseeing the final draft of the legislation aimed at dealing with rising incidents of crime across the state.
 
 Last year, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had backed a proposal for implementing PCOCA. The CM had then asked the cabinet sub-committee headed by health minister Brahm Mohindra to complete the modalities and bring in the legislation. However, with the number of gangsters who had been eluding arrests coming down drastically over the past few months, the government is now considering a review of the need to introduce such a stringent law. “When Congress came to power, the state was reeling under a law-and-order situation which called for special attention. The state was in the grip of targetted killings and gangsters were operating without any fear of law. But over the past year, all this has changed,” Mohindra said.
 
 He said when Amarinder decided to have a stringent law like PCOCA, the situation was quite different. “However,” he said, “our cops carried out massive crackdowns on gangsters and managed to solve targeted killings too, bringing an end to the reign of terror in the state.” “We are going in for a review of the need to implement PCOCA. The matter has already been discussed at various levels and will be placed before the entire cabinet, which will take a final call on whether a stringent law like PCOCA is still required in the state. If the cabinet will feel that state must have such a law, we will go ahead with its implementation,” the health minister said.
 
 In July, 2016 that the then state cabinet, under former CM  , refused to give a nod to PCOCA, under which an officer of the rank of a deputy inspector general (DIG) or above was to be made eligible to invoke this Act after citing why the crime could not be covered under the provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Act had been framed on the basis of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and had been proposed by the then deputy chief minister,  . A majority of ministers in the SAD-BJP had felt that certain clauses in the Act could be misused to settle scores with political opponents.
 
 In April last year, in view of a number of gang wars and the sensational Nabha jailbreak, the state government again called for a discussion on PCOCA and the matter was forwarded to the cabinet sub-committee. State police chief DGP   also raised the issue of giving more teeth to the police to tackle organised crime and gangsters in the state.
 
 However, Mohindra said the cabinet sub-committee was concerned over the misuse of the Act. He said even the CM wanted checks and balances should be incorporated into the Act to curtail its misuse. Also, the time span for which the Act was to be enforced had been discussed during several meetings of the sub-committee that had been held so far. “We have the blueprint for the Act ready, but it is to be seen if the state still needs PCOCA. The matter will be put before the council of ministers, who will take a final call,” he said.
 
 
