TIRUPUR: There is no doubt that the exporters from the dollar city reached great heights in the apparel industry primarily because of the support from foreign buyers. But on the other hand, businessmen say the list of exporters who were cheated by buyers or agents is also endless.

 An audio clip has been going viral on social media about the owner of a knitwear unit who died of cardiac arrest after he was cheated by an Italian buyer and an agent.
 
 S   began his career in the knitwear industry 26 years ago as a labourer. After successfully running a knitwear unit as a business partner a few years ago, Saravanan started his own knitwear export company with a capacity of around 200 sewing stitching machines last year.
 
 The audio clip, which was recorded by  , another exporter and his friend, said an Italian buyer provided an order worth ?2 crore to Saravanan’s unit but he failed to pay more than half of the amount, despite the goods being exported. “Due to a clerical mistake, ECGC’s buyer exposure policy could not be accessed. So, Saravanan was devastated after the buyer did not provide the payment, which was supposed to be made as per Cash Against Documents (CAD) agreement. At one stage, Saravanan, who ran out of sources to avail loans, could not arrange Rs 3 lakh to pay salaries to his staff. On May 7, he died of cardiac arrest inside his car in front of his wife,” said the audio clip.
 
 To prevent such deaths and put in place a mechanism to check fraudulent buyers in future, a trade body of knitwear exporters in   has planned to launch an online portal to blacklist such buyers and agents.   (Teama) has planned to launch a website - ‘Killer buyers and their buying agents’ - to provide information on fraudulent buyers and agents in June.
 
 President of Teama S P Muthurathinam told TOI, “There should be registration certificate, importer exporter code, membership of Apparel Export Promotion Council and many other certificates if a company wanted to export apparel goods. But buying agents do not have such compulsions or restrictions. Many agents were involved in cheating exporters with the connivance of buyers.”
 
 The cheating would be in various forms, including nonclearing of bills and cancelling orders without valid reason, he added. To provide preventive mechanism against such buyers, the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation’s ( ) would assess the buyers and provide a detailed reported on foreign buyers of Indian goods.
 
 Muthurathinam said, “Many agents would tactically push the exporters to do business with a buyer who was not given credited rating by ECGC. Moreover, internal pressure on the exporters, like loans, liabilities and commitments made, would play a crucial role in convincing them to take up orders from such buyers.” He added, “Exporters usually would not share or reveal details of the buyers who cheated them. But if they were ready to share the information and provide the required support, those buyers will be blacklisted in the portal.”
 
