NEW DELHI: The news is finally here. Staff Selection Commission (SSC) will be releasing SSC Combined Graduate Level (SSC CGL) Exam notification on Saturday, April 21, for the year 2018 for several posts. 

 We are expecting the number of vacancies will be around 4,000. Like every year, the students will be tested in 4 phases (Tier-1, Tier-2, Tier-3 and Tier-4) to secure a coveted job in the Staff selection Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 As per our information, the registration process will start from April 21. The candidates will have to register online in order to appear for the examination. The last date for the registration is May 25, 2018.
 
 The SSC CGL Tier-1 examination will be conducted between July 25, 2018, and August 20, 2018. The SSC CGL Tier-2 examinations will be from November 27, 2018, till November 30, 2018. However, there hasn't been any update on the schedule of the Tier-3 examination dates.
 
 
 
 
 The basic qualification to appear for the SSC CGL examination is to have a bachelor's degree from a university which is recognized by the government of India. Even the candidates who are in the final year of graduation can also appear for the examination. Further information on the eligibility criteria can be found from the official website.
 
 
 
 
 After the recent changes, the age limit has been increased to 30 years from 27 years. The minimum age to appear for the examination is 20 years.
 
 This implies that the candidates should have born between August 2, 1987, and August 1, 1997. Previously the age limit for the same is 18-27 years.
 
 
 
 
 All the candidates who wants to appear for the examination should have Indian Nationality.
 
 
 
 
 Different posts will have different pay based on the grade pay and the cities. There are 5 different grade pays and the complete information on the salary can be checked from the official website.
 
 
 
 
 As mentioned above, the examination will be conducted in four tiers.
 
 Tier-1 and Tier-2 will be online examinations with objective questions asked in multiple choice type. Tier-3 needs to written in a descriptive format and the students have the luxury of selecting English/Hindi as the language. Tier-4 will have a computer based proficiency test as well as the document verification.
 
 The students who clear the Tier-1 examination get the chance to appear for the Tier-2 and Tier-3 examination. Tier-4 examination needs to be given only for some specific jobs which require typing skills.
 
 
 
 
 The students need to fill the form online from the official website and make the payment once the notification is out.
 
 Please stay tuned to the official website for more updates on the SSC CGL examination.
 
