The   finally spoke up about anchor-turned-actress Sri Reddy’s fight against sexual harassment of women in the Telugu film industry. Speaking at a protest seeking justice for the Unnao and Kathua rape victims on  ,   said that   should’ve gone to the police station to register a complaint, rather than resorting to nude protest and “sensationalism”. But the actor-turned politician’s remarks have gotten city women’s rights activists all riled up.

 
 “Evaraina thappu cheste, TV deggariki osthe laabham ledu, court lo case eskomani cheppandi. Ee sensationalism kanna, evairaithe vallaki anyayam chesaro, vallaki court lo, police station lo, chattalunnayi... case veyyamani cheppadi... appudukuda jaraganappudu alantivi chesthe betterga untadi ani nenu bhavisthunanu,” said PK. (If anybody has been exploited, there is no point in going to TV channels. Instead let them file a case in the courts. Instead of seeking to sensationalise (referring to the nude protest) the issue, they must approach the police and the court of law.) 
  Pointing out the irony of PK choosing Ambedkar Jayanti to speak about the “Kathua rape case which happened in January,” city based activist Devi says politicians like PK who resort to rasta rokos and hold rallies that cause severe inconvenience to the pubic have no right to undermine Sri Reddy’s form of protest. “What about his form of protest? He is free to sit on the roads and protest for any issue that he likes but when somebody else does it, then it’s sensationalism, is it?” fumes Devi.
 
 
 
 To give it to him, Pawan Kalyan did acknowledge that women from the film industry are harassed. But by sidelining the issue of casting couch that women have been crying foul about, PK got into Power Star mode as he spoke of how he himself had taught some eve-teasing youth a lesson: “I have seen firsthand how women in films are looked upon, especially in villages where we go for shoots. Hundreds of youth would come and harass the women, so much so I’d have to drive them out with sticks. During the shooting of Thammudu (1999), I even got involved in fights for the same reason,” he said. But are cat-calling youth the real problem or industry-insiders, ask women!? Slamming Pawan Kalyan’s “half-hearted” empathy, activists say that he is either unaware of ground reality or is choosing to feign ignorance.
 “The issue in question was casting couch. Instead he made a statement about how he beat up some youth. In Pawan Kalyan’s world, the men beat up offenders with sticks and the women should go to the police,” says  , an activist from Hyderabad For Feminism.
 “When a big personality is involved in a rape or sexual harassment, then everybody chooses to stay mum. Instead they hit some youngster on the roads with sticks. Such is their heroism,” Tejaswini adds .
 
 
 
 Answering yet another question posed to him, the star turned the tables on the media. Criticising media for “sensationalising” Sri Reddy controversy, Pawan said, “Instead of sensationalising her story for TRPs, the media should take her to the police station and help her file a complaint. That will be more beneficial to her.”
 The fact that he, despite being a senior member of the Telugu film industry and a politician, has not volunteered to take Sri Reddy to the police station wasn’t lost on anybody.
 “He is a powerful member of the Telugu film industry; they call him the Power Star even. Why didn’t he come forward and help Sri Reddy along with other senior members of Tollywood? It’s not the media’s job to take her to the police station,” Devi reasons.
 “Firstly, it depends on the individual whether she wants to go to the police station or not. Sometimes, they don’t feel comfortable going and that’s alright. When the Harvey Weinstein controversy broke out, a lot of women did not go to the police station. It’s completely up to Sri Reddy what she wants to do. Neither Pawan Kalyan nor media can decide for her,” adds Tejaswini.
 
 
 Actress Madhavi Latha, who is supporting Sri Reddy in her fight against the casting couch menace, also questioned Pawan Kalyan’s solutions, stating that it isn’t 
 possible for women to go the police for every small issue.
 “I love Pawan Kalyan, but I can’t agree with him this one time. In heinous crimes like rape or attempt to rape, one should go to the police. But if a director asks you for commitment or asks you to send nude pictures, if you go to the police they won’t take you seriously. There needs to be a committee in place to hear our concerns, we cannot run to the police each time,” Madhavi says.
 
 
 Responding to the actor-politician, Sri Reddy said that she was well within her rights to stage a protest in the manner in which she chooses. “Like he suggested, I will go to the police and I will file cases when time comes. But I too have the right to protest; just like he has been protesting for special status for AP. I too am an Indian, this is democracy and we all have the right to fight for our causes,” Sri Reddy says.
 Urging Pawan Kalyan to support her protest, she adds, “I have been raising this issue for the past one month but it’s only now that he is speaking on this. I hope he will offer his support to me in raising this issue with the police.”
 
 
