PANAJI: Goa has raised the issue of non-utilization of its water resources by Karnataka in the context of its dozen projects to divert tributaries of   river to the  , stating that no schemes have been formulated to tap the rivers and nullahs.

 In its summary of written arguments and submissions before Mahadayi water disputes tribunal (MWDT), Goa has stated that the neighbouring state has abundant water resources.
 
 “Apart from the fact that there are 22 rivers in Belagavi district, all of which can pump around 1,000 TMC of water, there are two tributaries of Joul nullah and Bennihalla nullah in the Malaprabha basin, both of which, are completely untapped,” Goa stated in its submission.
 
 The basin area of Bennihalla nullah of the larger Malaprabha basin itself is thrice bigger than that of the Mhadei, but both these nearby water resources in the very same basin have not been tapped. 
 
 The catchment area of Joul nullah extends 244 sq kms, while that of the Bennehalla nullah admeasures around 5,048 sq kms, which is much larger than a 2,032 sq km catchment area in Karnataka and 1,580 sq kms in Goa.
 
 Karnataka has commenced construction of a 3-km canal at Kankumbi, allegedly without environment clearance and other approvals, to divert the Kalsa tributary into the Malaprabha basin. Goa had challenged the Kalsa and other projects before  , with a plea to set up a tribunal to resolve the dispute.
 
 Goa government has also pointed out to Karnataka’s new cropping patterns to seek to boost sugar cultivation in the Hubbali-Dharwad belt. In order to produce 100 kg of sugar, 25,000 litres of water is required while for processing sugarcane, the requirement is also water-intensive – to the tune of around 2,000 litres to produce 1 kg of sugar. Moreover, five new sugar mills have come up in the Malaprabha basin itself, apart from others in the neighbouring areas.
 
 The sugarcane cultivation has increased by more than 12 times from 224 Ha in 1979 to 2756 Ha in 2012-2013, causing water scarcity and exposing the bigger neighbour’s misplaced priorities and water management.
 
 Karnataka had also staked its claim for 7.56 TMC of water for drinking purposes in Hubbali-Dharwad areas, based on the purported calculation of an estimated population claimed to be around 28 lakh in 2051. Goa has pointed out that the present population is 9,43,857 as per 2011 census and the claim of a triple growth in population is untenable.
 
 
