CHENNAI:  , a housewife from West Bengal, came to Chennai last year seeking treatment for her two-year-old son Biban, diagnosed with lymphoblastic leukaemia. When she was told his chemotherapy would cost around Rs 10 lakh, she did not know what to do, as she and her husband could not afford it with his salary as a worker in a store.

 “Biban’s doctor suggested that I try crowdfunding. I didn’t know what it was or how it would help but we were desperate to save our son,” says Ritu, who still cannot get over the fact that within a few weeks of putting up her story on a crowdfunding website, funds poured in from individuals around the world, giving Biban enough to cover his entire treatment. “His treatment will continue for three years. The funds are still coming in. I don’t understand how, but I am just grateful,” she adds.
 
 At Milaap, which ran Biban’s campaign, 75% of the crowdfunding appeals are health-related, and of that, a fourth are for some form of  , says Anoj Viswanathan, the site’s co-founder. “We see a lot of appeals for monetary assistance for cancer treatment, especially paediatric cancer. These campaigns usually get fully funded,” says Viswanathan. He adds that doctors too have been directing patients in need to fundraising websites, and donors can authenticate the requests through contact details made available on the site.
 
  co-founder Varun Sheth says that more than a third of their campaigns are cancer-related, with appeals for bone marrow transplant funding on the rise. “Bone marrow transplants are expensive. And more than 100 patients have made appeals on our crowdfunding site,” says Sheth.
 
 He adds that 70% of the fundraisers have been 100% successful. “The growth has been organic,” says Sheth. “It started with one appeal for bone marrow transplant funding. Then, when it was successful, doctors started directing patients to our site,” he adds. 
 
 A TOI report a few months ago said that more than 22 doctors from the city have helped find financial resources through crowdfunding to meet the treatment expenses of around 350 patients, many of who were children requiring transplants and those suffering from cancer.
 
 Among them is paediatric haematologist Dr Revathi Raj of Apollo Specialty Cancer Hospital, Chennai, who says she is a true believer in the power of crowdfunding. “Some of the families who come to me for treatment are from small villages. They arrive in Chennai with nothing more than the clothes on their back, desperate to save their child. Treatment for paediatric cancers can go up to Rs 15 lakh, double that if one needs a bone marrow transplant. I suggest crowdfunding to them,” she says.
 
 However, Dr Raj says that some parents are hesitant to try crowdfunding. “Unfortunately, cancer is still a stigma in our country. And many parents don’t want anyone to know their child has cancer even if it means they cannot afford the treatment. Only 5% are willing to give crowdfunding a shot, to put their pictures out on the web, to open up about their needs to the world at large,” she adds.
 
 
