KOCHI: The high court’s decision allowing a teenaged boy and girl to live together is likely to have far-reaching consequences, and may trigger discussions on the concept of the Indian family and relationships.

 Youngsters stressed on the need for the youth to be emotionally and financially independent “like the West,” as one of them opined.
 
 “This is a step towards developing a sense of self-reliance among the youth,” Thapan  , a 19-year-old BCA student, said.
 
 Santhosh, however, was worried. “I am concerned over the acceptance of our overly conservative society. Parents and relatives are not likely to accept the change,” he said.
 
 Another student, meanwhile, felt the development positive.  , a BCom student also aged 19, said the court’s stand might encourage more landlords to offer accommodation to livein couples.
 
 “Many people won't accept live-in relations now, but sooner or later, they will have to accept it.” he said.
 
 Writer and women’s activist   said despite having legal sanction, young adults moving in together were likely to be hounded by the society. “The society has been given a message by the court that it should intrude into young people’s life. The court has said that young people can decide on living together. They might not have the financial capacity but they have a right to seek it,” she said.
 
 Devika added that youngsters wanting to be together take the extreme step when their families were not welcoming.
 
 “We should ask ourselves why young people, who know that they have no income and knows well that society is going to oppose them, go ahead with their decision to live together,” she said.
 
 Law student   felt it would be difficult for such couples to support themselves, since our society seldom taught the youngsters to be financially and emotionally independent.
 
 Senior psychiatrist   said “two 18-year-olds are mature by definition. Social and emotional maturity are important for them. The ad hoc nature of the relationship between two young adults would reflect very badly on the social construct of a family.”
 
 Devika opined that the court's position would trigger a “healthy and necessary discussion on the Indian family,” that would go beyond live-in relationships.
 
 “Ours is not a society that would let these kids live their lives, where they can live at their parents’ place, meet regularly and wait till they can financially take care of themselves, enabling them to see if their love endures or not.”
 
 She felt “family life is unhealthy in India and we keep blaming the West, which is not fair. Blaming the West is our way of covering up our shortcomings.”
 
