HYDERABAD: Polluting industries will be shifted out of the city with the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) deciding to move industrial zones to the outskirts of the city in phases. In the first phase, units in   Industrial Area will be shifted out.

 “We have identified three new locations and are developing infrastructure. These include areas near   and Zaheerabad. More sites will be identified. We will shift all the polluting industries from industrial estates to these new locations. Katedan is in the first phase of shifting,” a top TSIIC official told TOI.
 
 
  
 The shift is being opposed by the association of industrialists who cite transportation of workers as a huge problem. “Many of the industries in Katedan are small-scale and the workers are from neighbouring villages and slums. If we have to shift to Vikarabad or Zaheerabad or any area, it will be too far and small-scale industries can’t arrange transportation,” said AN Suri, advisory board member of Katedan Industrial Area Local Authority.
 
 “Moreover, if the industries are shifted, is the government ready to change the land use from industrial to multiutility?” he asked. Change of land use will be necessary to use the vacated industrial zone for construction of residential and commercial buildings.
 
 Rajesh Agarwal, secretary of Katedan Industries Association, said, “Two years ago when the TSIIC held a meeting over this, we opposed the move. We are still opposing the shifting of industries. There are no polluting industries here as they have already been closed by the   (PCB). Till now, there is no basic infrastructure here.”
 
 Suri added that the government should first focus on shifting medium and large-scale industries that can provide transportation for workers and afford to shift their infrastructure and equipment. “Also, the case regarding GO 111 (banning constructions within 10km radius of   and Osmansagar) is also pending in the high court. Katedan falls within the 10km radius,” Suri said.
 
 
