NAGPUR: To check punishment postings and harassment of teachers and principals,   (NU) has notified tough norms for managements of affiliated colleges and institutions regarding transfers.

 In the absence of any regulation, managements used to arbitrarily transfer dissenting teachers to remote areas where they had a separate branch. The NU grievance committee had received several appeals in the last couple of years over vindictive approach of managements as far as transfers were concerned.
 
 The new rules restrict the number of total transfers to four during the entire service period of a teacher or principal, besides prohibiting the move in the first seven years of appointment.
 
 Permission of both the universities is a must for management before it transfers a teacher/principal to its other branch which comes under a different university. Also, NU has prohibited the transfer of physically handicapped teachers and principals.
 
 Sops like preferred posting in the last seven years of service period to the teacher/principal’s home town, a week’s leave and transportation charges too have been included in the guidelines.
 
 Another important clause mentioned in the guidelines was regarding service conditions following transfers. The managements won’t be allowed to alter terms and conditions of service to his/her disadvantage by virtue of transfer.
 
 On April 26, 2016, NU’s Academic Council had set up a committee led by academician Anil Dhage to submit a comprehensive report regarding the preparation of a law relating to transfer of teachers/principals from on affiliated college to anther under the same management.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram, dean of humanities Shrikant Kommawar and deputy registrar Wasim Ahmed were members of the committee which submitted its report on May 2.
 
 The committee had broadly classified three conditions for transfer: on administrative exigencies, as a routine periodical transfer or on the specific request of the teacher/principal.
 
 The free-hand of management has been curtailed to a large extent and limited to only need-based action.
 
 Dhage told TOI that the committee endeavoured to formulate a foolproof directive, though new problems may arise which they were not able to foresee. “There were appeals with the grievance committee regarding transfer of teachers and principals. In the absence of any regulation, managements had a free hand. The same issue was deliberated during the framing of draft uniform statute for university teachers,” he said.
 
 Dhage said the recommendations of the committee were accepted as it is by the university.
 
 
