PUNE: Aviation experts termed the Sunday’s incident of a Jet Airways’ Delhi flight taking off without the baggage of around 90 passengers unusual, while the airline on Tuesday cited a payload restriction for the flyers’ hassle. 

 A spokesperson of the airline told TOI in the morning, “Flights’ take-off depends on weather conditions and temperature. In a certain weather condition, there is a certain take-off weight. We follow the safety regulations and it is operationally mandated. If a certain weight is not permissible, the first thing we do is to de-board cargo and baggage. We don’t want to cause inconvenience to passengers and leave them behind. Thus, the information (on luggage offloading) was provided to them (the flyers of the Jet flight) once they reached Delhi.”
 
 The official did not comment on the exact number of baggage offloaded and the total number of passengers on the Sunday’s Delhi-bound flight. The Jet authorities had assured around 2pm that they would be issuing an official statement on the issue. But the communication was awaited till going to the press.
 
 City’s aviation analyst and expert Dhairyashil   said, “It is difficult to make a concrete comment on the issue because the airline is not giving out much information. But the fact that the luggage of so many people was left behind is very unusual.”
 
 Vandekar said there could be several reasons affecting the performance of an aircraft, which may have a bearing on its payload.
 
 “Payload in commercial airlines generally comprises passengers, baggage, cargo and mails. When there is a need to reduce the load of an aircraft for its safety and structural integrity, a part of the payload is offloaded. A particular sequence is followed while offloading to attain the allowable take-off weight. The performance of an aircraft at times may be affected by factors like temperature, altitude, humidity and atmospheric pressure. Apart from these, last minute equipment issue on an aircraft may also require operations of the aircraft with reduced payload. Also, inclement weather on the route may necessitate carrying of extra fuel, due to which offloading can happen,” Vandekar said.
 
 He said such situations were beyond the control of the airlines, but they always try to offload minimum luggage so that the passengers are not hassled. “In the Jet case, it seems a lot of luggage was offloaded, which is strange.”
 
 A source said, “If weather was the cause, other flights flying out around the same time would have been affected. That, it seems, did not happen. This triggers doubts.”
 
 An official of an airline said no NOTAM (notice to airmen) was issued during on Sunday afternoon. “One of our flights took off on time for Hyderabad at 3:15pm,” he said.
 
 A source said the   (air traffic control) under the Indian Air Force was responsible for the weather updates, issued every half-an-hour.
 
 Frequent flyers stressed information about luggage offloading should reach the passengers in advance. “Though I haven’t faced such a situation yet, information about such a situation should come to me before a flight takes off. There is always a chance that I might have to fly to some other place the same day. If I am aware of the offloading in advance, I can always make an alternative plan. Just imagine how a passenger will feel if s/he suddenly finds after reaching the destination that luggage has not arrived? The airlines do not keep the passengers posted. This is a wrong practice,” Nanda N, a working professional, said.
 
 
