Ludhiana: Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women (GNKCW), Gujarkhan Campus, Model Town, organized the 5th Prof. Gurbir Singh Sarna Memorial Inter-College Competitions on Tuesday. This event was organized to mark the memory of Late Prof. Gurbir Singh Sarna, general secretary of Guru Nanak Education Trust (Gujarkhan), Gujarkhan Campus, and former professor of Economics, GGN Khalsa College, Civil Lines, Ludhiana.

 The competitions were held in eight different areas – Poetical Recitation, Declamation, Creative Writing, Music, IT, Home Science, Fine Arts, and Mass Communication. As many as 26 colleges in and around Ludhiana participated in the competitions. Dr Gurminder Sidhu, an eminent Punjabi writer, was the chief guest for the occasion. She was accompanied by her husband Retd Captain Khaira. She writes poems which focus on female foeticide, and the significance of women in our society with regard to their various roles.
 
 In the Power-Point Presentation competition, GNKCW Ludhiana stood first, while Guru Nanak Girls College (GNGC) Ludhiana won the second prize, followed by Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College for Women (GGSKCW) Kamalpura in the third position. In the Code Development competition, Ramgharia Girls College (RGC) stood first, while Khalsa College for Women (KCW) won the second prize, followed by HMV Jalandhar in the third position.
 
 KCW Ludhiana stood first in the Website Designing competition, GGNKCW won the second prize, and GNIMT Model Town, Ludhiana, won the third prize. In Logo Designing, GGN Khalsa College, Ludhiana, won the first prize, followed by HMV Jalandhar in the second place. Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management (SACCM) won the third prize.
 
 In Poetical Recitation competition, RGC Ludhiana, won the first prize, followed by SCD Government College, Ludhiana, in the second position, while the third position was bagged by GNKCW, Model Town, Ludhiana. In TV Interviewing, Government College for Girls stood first, followed by IK Gujral PTU, Jalandhar, in the second position. GGN Institute of Vocational Studies, Ludhiana, secured the third position.
 
 Malwa Central College of Education for Women stood first in Declamation. GTB National College, Dakha, won the second prize, followed by HMV Jalandhar and GNKCW, Ludhiana, in the third place. SACCM stood first in RJ Hunt Competition, GGN Institute of Vocational Studies, Ludhiana, won the second prize, and Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, won the third prize.
 
 Malwa Central College of Education won the first prize in Nail Art Competition, GNKCW Ludhiana stood second, while HMV Jalandhar and Ramgharia Girls College shared the third prize. GNKCW Ludhiana stood first in Pudding Making, while Government College for Girls (GCG) Ludhiana, and HMV Jalandhar won the second and third prizes respectively.
 
 In AD Mad Show, HMV Jalandhar bagged the first prize, Arya College Ludhiana, and GGN Institute of Vocational Studies Ludhiana came at second place, while SACCM bagged the third prize. In Pakhi Making competition, GNKCW Model Town stood first. In Mehndi Competition, GNKCW Ludhiana bagged the first prize, followed by RGC Ludhiana and GCG Ludhiana at the second place. Arya College Ludhiana won the third prize. GCG Ludhiana stood first in Rangoli competition, Arya College Ludhiana secured the second position, GNKCW and KCW Ludhiana shared the third prize.
 
 GCG Ludhiana stood first in Still Life, Malwa Central College of Education for Women (MCCEW) Ludhiana, and GNKCW Ludhiana won the second and third prizes respectively. GNKCW Model Town, Ludhiana, stood first in Life Drawing, KCW Ludhiana, and GCG Ludhiana won the second and third prizes respectively. MCCEW Ludhiana stood first in Poster Making, RGC Ludhiana, and HMV Jalandhar won the second and third prizes respectively. HMV Jalandhar stood first in Collage Making, Malwa Central College of Education, Ludhiana, and Khalsa College for Women, Sidhwan Khurd, won the second and third prizes respectively.
 
 GNKCW principal Manjit Kaur Ghuman said: “These inter-college competitions were organized keeping in view the present need for cultural exchange and intellectual dialogue.” Gurvinder Singh, general decretary of the college governing body gave a vote of thanks and congratulated all the participants and prize winners. 
 
 
