LUCKNOW: To improve ease of doing business in the state, the infrastructure and industrial development department has asked the   to let the 'most polluting industries' keep their permissions for emission and discharge for five years instead of the current two. 

 The proposal is for the red category or most pollution industries such as distilleries, fertilizer plants, pharmaceutical and cement manufacturing, pesticides and tanneries. The permission is granted as a consent from   to discharge or emit pollutants, which are then dealt with accordingly. Sources in the Board, however, say that the state's industries have a poor record in compliance and such a move could allow for unchecked pollution. Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner   said the Centre follows the norm of granting consent for five years and that he had requested UPPCB to increase the validity of this consent for UP as well. 
 
 "In a trouble-shooting meet of  , industrialists proposed that we allow consent for five years, like the Centre. I have asked UPPCB to consider making necessary changes. If it can help simplify procedures for the industry, it should definitely be considered," he said. Officials said the matter will now be taken up by the Board. However, sources in UPPCB said that a similar proposal had already been rejected earlier over concerns that industries would fail to follow pollution control norms and a check every two years would be a better proposition. "Forget the Centre, Maharashtra gives this consent for 15 years. But the level of compliance there is much better. As per the Environment Protection Act, there is a specified procedure for renewing consent to emit and discharge and the owner of the unit needs to submit documents to the Board each time the consent is renewed. But things are easier now as UPPCB applications are to be made online. The worry is that compliance will fall sharply if this process is changed," said an official.
 
 Among the 70-odd cases of grievance redressal taken up during the Udyog Bandhu meeting, the government has decided to get a study commissioned on the kinds of industries that can be permitted within the Taj trapezium. 
 
 
