While Bollywood prides itself in showcasing Indian traditional dance forms on the silver screen through the ages, the industry has also caught up with the times. That’s the magic of Indian movies. And while international dance forms are gaining popularity around the world, Bollywood, too, has quickly adapted to this. Over the years, we’ve observed that Bollywood music composers are creating songs that give ample scope to a variety of international dance forms to flourish. 

 Recently, the party number 'Bom Diggy Diggy' from 'Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety' showcased the Jamaican dance style, Dancehall, while 'ABCD', 'ABCD2' and 'Judwaa 2' used popular forms like Contemporary and Hip-Hop. Talking about this trend, choreographer   says, “Music directors in Bollywood have really upped their game. They are creating new-age music, which is edgy, creative and on par with international music. Naturally, even the   has to match up to the tunes and hence, we’re experimenting with different forms. For instance, Dancehall basically goes with Reggaeton and Caribbean music. The form is characterised by faster rhythms and beats.”
 
 Sound and audio production play an important role in giving a song its dance value. There are some composers who even design and keep a bank of catchy tunes. 
 
 Says composer  , “The groove or rhythm structure plays a key role in getting a person on the dance floor and it is the rhythm, which gives a certain kind of pulse to a song. We have programmers and arrangers who know how to catch the nerve of the audience, which gets them to tap their feet the moment they hear the song.” 
 
 
 
 Choreographer  , who popularised contemporary dance in Bollywood, says, “Dance is music made visible. Contemporary dance is a representation of emotions and therefore, it fits well in our cinema.” He believes that the industry is extremely competitive and this drives musicians and choreographers to reinvent themselves and experiment with different forms of music and dance.
 
 
 
 Composer Clinton Cerejo shares, “Urban audiences are exposed to international shows like 'So You Think You Can Dance', and this has affected choreography in Bollywood.” The landscape, as far as sound is concerned, has widened drastically in the last couple of years, all thanks to young composers and producers who have arrived on the scene from various different musical backgrounds and influences. Yash Narvekar, singer- composer and lyricist, says, “The kind of exposure we have to world music is one of the main reasons why new forms of dance have come into our industry.” Choreographer   adds, “Bollywood mostly uses fusion styles of dance forms. The actual Hip-Hop dance form was used in the song 'Bezubaan Phir Se' ('ABCD2').
 
 
 Some filmmakers like Sanjay Leela Bhansali have paid an ode to classical dance forms. His films like 'Devdas', 'Bajirao Mastani' and 'Padmaavat' have showcased traditional dance styles with beauty and grace. 'Ghoomar', a folk dance style was showcased in 'Padmaavat'. Other composers and choreographers also feel that while Bollywood is doing great at the moment with all kinds of international dances being incorporated into movies, more Indian dance forms should be used in films.  , composer-singer, says, “All over the world, there is tremendous respect for Bharatanatyam, Kathak and other Indian folk dances. We should also start respecting these. The day we start believing that our dance forms are ‘cool’ is when we will start incorporating more of them in our movies.”
 
 
 Back in the 50s and 60s, choreography had a classical touch to it. Songs often showcased Kathak, Bharatnatyam and other folk dance-based steps in films. Later, with rock, trance and Sufi music gaining popularity, choreography also changed. Choreographers believe that in those days, most music directors were essentially from the classical background, while today, many have trained in Western musical forms also, which has influenced their compositions.  , tabla player and instrumentalist, says, “Music and choreography are connected; they go hand-in-hand. Bollywood music has really changed from what it used to be in the 50s and 60s. Back then, if there were seven songs in a film, five would be Indian and two would have Western tunes. Now, if there are seven songs, five are Western and maybe one or two will have Sufi or Indian influences.”
 
 
 
 
