MUMBAI: Across Siemens' offices in India, a recorded voice gives instructions over the public address system, prompting employees to break the monotony of working and perform specific exercises at their desks. There are three exercises per module, which the employees perform every day, one in the morning at 10.30am and another at 3.30pm.

 The initiative, started eight months ago, is aptly called 'the healthy break' and was started to combat the harmful effects long hours of sitting has on health, says Ramesh Shankar S, EVP & head of HR, Siemens.
 
 The results have been encouraging. The number of sick leaves taken by Siemens' employees has reduced by 5-8 per cent. "This means employee productivity is increasing," says Shankar. Employees feel more agile and refreshed, and many report that niggling aches and pains have disappeared. "There is also a lot of laughter and improved social interaction between employees," says Shankar. Employees are also encouraged to join programmes which involve diet management, yoga sessions and measurement of body parameters.
 
 The emphasis on promoting a healthy lifestyle among employees has been on the rise in many organisations. At Deloitte India, L&D (learning and development) programmes incorporate a break every 90 minutes to allow employees to do simple stretching exercises and yoga poses. "The idea is to bring a certain sense of consciousness among employees about being healthy. So while most organisations have annual health check-ups for their employees, we take it to a different level of commitment. And if some employee has not gone to the clinic for check-ups, we ensure the clinic comes to the employee," says S V Nathan, chief talent officer, Deloitte India.
 
 In the coming week, Deloitte will be placing weighing machines outside restrooms, which, the company believes will be a constant reminder to employees to take their health seriously. "We also tell employees to ensure they take their annual leaves. We believe a sound mind leads to a sound body," says Nathan.
 
 Some companies have done away with fixed seating arrangements and allowed employees to use  . At Yes Bank, to avoid the ill-effects of long sitting hours in front of the computer, team huddles have become part of the daily schedule at all its branches. A 30-minute daily huddle encourages open communication, besides helping employees take a formal break during working hours.
 
 Across the bank's corporate offices and branches, leaders can often be seen working outside their cabins at standing desks. This yoencourages other employees to follow suit. "We are planning to incorporate standing desks at all our offices and branches. This will help us improve workplace ergonomics, while also facilitating better collaboration amongst employees," says Deodutta Kurane, group president, human capital management, Yes Bank.
 
 As part of a global pulse challenge at GSK, participants were given pulse trackers to count the daily steps. The global challenge is a 100-day virtual journey around the globe. In teams of seven, employees track their physical activity and work towards a daily target of 10,000 steps. GSK had over 1,150 employees participating from India.
 
 Other employers have introduced wellness initiatives on apps.
 
