Greater Noida: The family members of a property dealer   since March 5 and local residents on Tuesday protested outside the SSP office, accusing the police of making little headway in the case.

 The family alleged that though the police had lodged an FIR against three persons, they did not make much effort to nab them.
 
 Udayraj Singh (47), who lived with his wife Rekha and two sons, aged 22 and 18, in Sector Gama 2, had left home on March 5 to deposit Rs 3.85 lakh in Vijaya Bank in Sector Gama 1. The distance between Singh’s home and the bank is a kilometre, which he decided to walk that day.
 
 Aditya Kumar, Udayraj’s son, said the family launched a search when his father did not return home late in the evening. “We dialled his number and found it switched off. We launched a search but could not find him in the neighbourhood,” Kumar said.
 
 The next morning, the family members reached the bank to enquire about the matter. They accessed CCTV footage but it did not throw any leads. Officials apparently told the family Singh had not come to the bank that day.
 
 The family then reported the matter to Kasna police and told them they suspected the involvement of three persons — Raza, Mutabbir and Abbas — all residents of Cholas village.
 
 Pawan Nagar, Singh’s relative, said the property dealer had given a lona of Rs 7 lakh to the three persons two years ago. 
 
 “They had not been returning the money. They had even threatened Udayraj with dire consequences after he prodded them about returning the loan. We suspect their involvement in this case,” he said.
 
 Singh’s family members and neighbours protested outside the SSP office on Tuesday and demanded that the investigation be fast-tracked. They also met SP (rural) Suniti, who reportedly assured them of a swift investigation.
 
 BK Verma, the SHO of Kasna police station, said a case of kidnapping and criminal intimidation under Sections 364 and 506 of the IPC has been registered. “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” he said.
 
 
