NEW DELHI:   beware, you could be booked by   for your children throwing water   at people. The cops are clamping down on   indiscipline a day after a DU student claimed she was hit with balloons filled with semen. Though police found, after apprehending two teenaged girls for the prank, that they were harmless water projectiles, the law keepers do not want mischief makers to mar the festive spirit on Holi.

 After police commissioner Amulya Patnaik ordered the deployment of an additional 50 companies on the roads, cops intensified patrolling in the vicinity of colleges and schools and deployed PCR vans for quick intervention. 
 
 Dependra Pathak, special commissioner and Delhi Police chief spokesperson, said victims should promptly report harassment to enable police action. “We have zero-tolerance for hooliganism and will take immediate action on receiving complaints,” Pathak asserted.
 
 Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC were issued to dissuade motorcyclists riding with balloons and pichkaris. Action will be taken under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience of public order) against violators. People making a din on the roads despite the objections of local residents too will be booked under these orders. Police officers of the rank of joint commissioner and above will be on patrol duty on the day.
 
 Children will not be spared; their parents will be hauled up for their indiscretions. Police teams met RWA members in Lajpat Nagar, Amar Colony and Greater Kailash and requested them to warn residents about misdemeanours. The cops will carry out surprise checks in residential areas and book violators and those driving under the influence.
 
 Cops said most miscreants use motorcycles for getaways after balloon attacks. “We have detained a few bikers who were carrying projectiles. They will be let off only after counselling,” said a police officer. Shops have been ordered not to sell balloons longer than 2 cm.
 
 On Thursday, police accompanied   students in south Delhi, some of them victims of earlier balloon attacks, when they rallied in colonies to ask residents to discourage rowdies.
 
 
