Surat: Following the sensational robbery of diamonds worth Rs 20 crore from the diamond hub of Katargam on Wednesday, the diamond industry leaders have revived their long pending demand seeking special protection force from the state government to curb such incidents.  The diamond hub was rattled on Wednesday evening when some unidentified robbers looted diamonds from an employee of a diamond firm on a crowded road.  Industry leaders stated that this is first time that the industry has witnessed such a sensational robbery from a crowded place and miscreants managed to escape. The diamond markets located in Varachha and Mahidhapura have a daily turnover of diamonds to the tune of Rs 500 crore and more.  Talking to TOI, regional chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) Dinesh Navadiya said, “In February, 2013, there was a spectacular $50 million diamond heist at Brussels airport in Antwerp. The industry in Surat was also rattled after the diamond heist that they approached the state government, seeking protection from thefts and robberies on the lines of Antwerp. In all these years, the government has failed to initiate any action in that direction.” A delegation of industry leaders on Thursday met city police commissioner Satish Sharma and senior police officials, who in turn advised the diamantaires to keep their own security guards for the transit of high-value diamonds from factories to the safe-deposit vaults, maintaining the closed circuit television cameras and keeping security guards at the deposit vaults etc.  Around 50 per cent of diamonds that reaches the markets in Varachha and Mahidharpura land up in the safe deposit vaults. There are a total of 25 safe vaults in both the markets where Rs 1,500 crore to Rs 2,000 crore worth of diamonds are stored in tight security. The diamond hub has more than 4,500 diamond manufacturing units large and small employing around 4.5 lakh workers. Like most of the complexes housing the diamond manufacturing units, the Diamond World Towers and the Princess Towers in Varachha’s Mini Bazaar have light security with few baton wielding guards who pass their day directing the outsiders to park their vehicles outside the tower premises. Last but not the least, the informal courier service known as ‘angadias’ come in the picture as polished consignments from big diamond companies and merchants in the diamond markets are taken to Mumbai by ‘diamond couriers’ through rail and road routes in small packet secreted in their clothing or possessions. It is at Mumbai’s Opera House and Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) where all the diamonds processed in Surat are delivered by angadias for export. “The secret that the diamond industry is yet to witness any big diamond heist lies in the fact that the system rests on the back of a tight-knit, secretive network of families of many thousands manufacturers, dealers and importers. Almost all those in the diamond industry come from small towns such as Palanpur and Saurashtra region. New employees joining the trade need to be vouched for by present workers before they are employed in the units,” a diamond industry leader Kirti Shah said.