MARGAO:   MLA Nilesh   has mooted a proposal to set up an educational complex at Curchorem to house all educational institutes in the town. To begin with, Cabral has plans to shift the two higher secondary schools in Curchorem to the proposed complex at Cacora. 

 Cabral told TOI that the education hub will be built on the lines of the Cujira school complex in Bambolim. The idea, he said, was to decongest the town and provide adequate parking space for the staff and students of the schools.
 
 Pointing out that there were currently over 2,500 students studying in the two higher secondary schools in Curchorem — 1800 in Guardian Angel Higher Secondary School and other technical courses, and 800 in Chandrabhaga Naik higher secondary school — Cabral said there was no scope for expansion in the two educational institutes. 
 
 Cabral’s proposal is to acquire an additional 40,000 sq m of land adjoining the 80,000 sq m property already in possession of the government at Cacora, on which the Curchorem government polytechnic stands.
 
 “I have already spoken to the landowners who have given their NOC to facilitate the state government to purchase the land for the purpose,” Cabral said. “If this 40,000 sq m land is acquired, a spacious educational complex can be built around the existing polytechnic campus. The two higher secondary schools can be shifted first.” He said that common facilities like playgrounds, etc, could be built for the schools. 
 
 At the Cujira school complex, the government has allotted land for schools on long-term lease basis, and the schools are being shifted there, phase-wise. As in the case of the Cujira complex, the objective of the Curchorem complex is to decongest the town and provide the students a safe and secure environment.
 
 “Apart from the traffic congestion that occurs in the town (around the time the schools start and end), there is also the problem of parking,” Cabral said. “As both the higher secondary schools don’t have adequate space for parking, people end up parking their vehicles on private lands, in front of others’ houses, and even on roads, thereby causing a nuisance to the local population.” 
 
 Cabral has already placed the proposal before the chief minister,  , during the meeting he held with the heads of the Church-run institutions at Curchorem, during his recent tour to the constituency. Parrikar has assured him of a favourable response, he said.
 
 
