NAGPUR: Supporters of separate Vidarbha were cane charged by Sitabuldi police at   on Tuesday when they tried to march towards Vidhan Bhavan by overturning the barricades. 

 One activist was injured and offences were registered against over 200 supporters. They were observing ‘black day’ on the occasion of Maharashtra Day. Vidarbha protagonists strongly condemned the police action and warned that the BJP-Shiv Sena government would have to pay a heavy price for this.
 
 The pro-Vidarbha activists were led by former MLA Wamanrao Chatap. Sitabuldi cops said that they had requested the activists to court arrest but they were in no mood to listen. Chatap’s supporters, however, said that they were protesting peacefully.
 
 Meanwhile, several programmes marked Maharashtra Day in the city. While Vidarbha supporters observed May 1 as a ‘black day’ those supporting united Maharashtra held celebrations.
 
 Statehood supporters unfurled Vidarbha’s flag at Vishnuji ki Rasoi restaurant in Kachhipura. Lawyer Shrihari Aney, retired SC judge Vikas Sirpurkar, PKB Chakraborty, Haribhau Kedar, Mukesh Samarth, Dhananjay Dharmik, Dr Uday Bodhankar, Niraj Khandewale, Dinesh Naidu, Sudhir Paliwal and others were present on the occasion.
 
 Bahujan Republican Vidyarthi Morcha took out a rally in support of separate Vidarbha. The rally started from University Library and concluded at RBI Square. Sanjay Magar, Pramod Kanekar, Shilwant Meshram, Prafulla Gajbhiye, Shahrukh Pathan and others participated in the rally. The activists raised slogans in favour of the statehood.
 
 Activists of All India Forward Bloc protested inclusion of Vidarbha in Maharashtra by wearing black clothes in Sitabuldi.
 
 The state government function to mark Maharashtra Day was held at Kasturchand Park. Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule inspected the parade and hoisted the national flag. Most of city MLAs and MLCs were present at the function. In his speech, the minister recounted the achievements of the government. Maharashtra Day was also celebrated in most government offices of the city.
 
 Shiv Sena activists marked the occasion by distributing sweets at various places of the city. They were led by former MP Prakash Jadhav. MNS activists, led by Hemant Gadkari, burst firecrackers in Dharampeth.
 
 In Chandrapur, pro-Vidarbha organizations and parties observed Maharashtra Day as ‘black day’ and hoisted Vidarbha’s flag to highlight the demand of separate statehood for the region. Supporters of separate statehood staged demonstrations against the government and pledged to continue the struggle till Vidarbha attains statehood.
 
 Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi, Vidarbha Connect, Chanda Shikshan Prasarak Mandal and other statehood supporter organizations hoisted Vidarbha’s flag at the ground near Janata College on Tuesday. Senior statehood leader Dr Ashok Jiwtode hoisted Vidarbha’s flag amid slogans of ‘Jai Vidarbha’. He also delivered statehood pledge to the people on the occasion.
 
 Bhaujan Republican Socialist Party also hoisted Vidarbha’s flag near Priyadarshini Auditorium on Tuesday. Vidarbha region general secretary of the party, Raju Zode, unfurled the flag. Party workers and statehood supporters staged demonstration demanding statehood for Vidarbha. They charged that BJP came to power by deceiving the people of the region in the name of separate statehood and people will teach a lesson to the party in next election.
 
 
