JALANDHAR: Punjab   president   has written to chief minister   seeking probe into the bidding process for the   thermal plant, alleging that the company to which the project was allotted did not fulfil the stipulated conditions. He has also attached the “documentary evidence” to support his claim.

 Revealing this here on Sunday, the Gurdaspur MP said he stood by all the allegations about the irregularities in the power purchase agreements (PPAs), which he had levelled before the Congress came to power in the Punjab, and he would keep on pursuing these.
 
 “In case of Talwandi Sabo thermal plant, major irregularity happened even at the bidding level as the company, which was allowed to bid and then given the project, was not even entitled for bidding as per the laid down conditions. I have sent the pertinent documents to the CM also while requesting him to order a probe so that responsibility should be fixed about who allowed this irregularity to happen and now PPA could be renegotiated with the private player,” he said.
 
 He said he had also pointed out the issues of flaws in fixing the rates for purchase of power from the private players.
 
 On December 11, 2016, while addressing a press conference in Jalandhar,   had announced that as PPA signed by Sterlite Energy Limited for Talwandi Sabo power plant with the Punjab government clearly violated the stipulated conditions, after coming to power Congress would annul the agreement.
 
 He had pointed out that the financial statements submitted by the company to Bombay Stock Exchange in 2009 showed that it did not fulfil even the minimum requirement of free cash flow for participation in the bidding process. “This brazen illegality would rather provide us basis to scrap the agreement after the Congress would come to power in the state,” he had said.
 
 However, notwithstanding these repeated allegations by Jakhar during the run-up to the assembly elections, the then Punjab power minister Rana  , on December 30, 2017 — a few days before resigning from the state cabinet — had maintained that no flaw had been found in the PPAs, which were signed by the SAD-BJP regime with the private thermal plants on the basis of which these pacts could be scrapped. He had said that if any flaw would be found then it would be used to renegotiate the PPAs.
 
 Before the Congress formed the government Punjab, Jakhar was at the forefront of his party’s attempt to put the SAD-BJP government in the dock and had been alleging loss of thousands of crores to the state exchequer to benefit the private players.
 
 
