LUDHIANA: After Ludhiana (Rural) police booked a youth on February 5 for abetment to suicide of a   — who died under mysterious circumstances on June 9 last year — the families of the accused and the victim have raised doubts over the youth’s involvement in the case, and claim instead that the police were trying to save their man by booking him.

 On June 10 last year, Jodhan police in Ludhiana (Rural) police district had booked head   of Andlu village for abetment to suicide after the family of a lady constable —   Kaur (27) of Khadoor village — lodged allegations of torture (pointing towards sexual harassment) against him after she was found hanging in the women’s barrack at the police station a day earlier. Later on February 5, Jodhan police arrested the ‘main accused’ in the case — Jasdev Singh (27) alias Jassu of   in Sudhar — after he surrendered before a local court in Ludhiana. He was booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Jasdev’s father   — who owns a sweet shop in Akalgarh — said they believed their son was innocent, and the police had falsely implicated him in the case. He added they had done it to save their man, who was booked for abetment to suicide. “However, we are going to fight for justice and will approach a court of law,” said Hardeep Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, the victim’s family also raised doubts over police booking their neighbour in the case. “I have doubts over the involvement of the accused — who lives in our neighbourhood — in the case. As we have approached a court of law, which has issued summons to the police, they might have arrested him to show progress in the case, and to save their man involved. Before her murder, my sister had told me and my elder sister that Munshi Nirbhai Singh used to torture her,” said Amanpreet’s brother Gurinder Singh. “We will fight for justice to my sister and have already approached the high court to order a CBI probe into the matter.” He added that the police did not even keep the promise of giving him a job and were adopting delaying tactics.
 
 However, Jodhan police said they had solid evidence against the accused. Station house officer (SHO) of Jodhan police station, inspector Jasvir Singh, said the accused had surrendered before a local court and was formally arrested by the police. He added they had enough evidence against him in the case, as he was having an affair with Amanpreet for around two years.
 
 “On the day of the crime, the accused Jasdev had called up Amanpreet’s number 17 times, and he would frequently chat with her online. Jasdev had received money from Amanpreet during their love affair, and had also stayed in hotels of which the police have procured written evidence,” said a cop. They added that the accused was not ready to marry the deceased, despite having physical relations with her, which prompted her to end her life. Police officials said the accused was 12th pass, and his father owned a sweet shop in Akalgarh.They further added that head munshi Nirbhai Singh was given a clean chit by the special investigation team (SIT).
 
 CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS
 
 9 June 2017: The body of lady constable Amanpreet Kaur (27) of Khadoor village was found hanging under mysterious circumstances in Jodhan police station. Next day, the police had booked head munshi Nirbhay Singh of Andlu village for abetment to suicide after her family had lodged allegations of torture against him.
 
 10 June 2017: Punjab State Scheduled Caste Commission (PSSCC) headed by chairman Rajesh Bagha had decided to refer the case to director,  , asking him to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) comprising a deputy inspector general, superintendent of police, and deputy superintendent of police to investigate the matter.
 
 
