CHANDIGARH: After facing much embarrassment and missing deadline of filing a chargesheet within 90 days of arrest of the main accused in   scam that led to their default bail, the Chandigarh Police on Monday submitted the chargesheet against 17 accused, including   alias Sanjay   alias Guruji alias Masterji ,   Kumar and Shiv Bahdur.

 Running into about 1,000 pages, the chargesheet also includes 60 witness. The police has made Sanjay Srivastav of Lucknow as the main accused in the scam. He is also one of the accused in   scam of  , Telengana paper leak of 2016 and chit fund scam.
 
 The chargesheet stated that Sanjay Srivastav was the main accused in the scam while Shiv Bahadur, Shailesh   along with Dinesh Yadav and Brijender Nain have been made as his partners in leaking the JBT recruitment paper. As per the chargesheet, Shailesh along with Shiv Bahadur leaked the paper from a printing press located in   in Delhi and it was handed over to Sanjay Srivastav, a government press employee, who later handed over the responsibility of looking for candidates to Dinesh Yadav. The question papers were sold for a price ranging between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 40 lakh.
 
 The three accused, Shiv Bahadur of Varanasi, Shailesh Kumar of Azamgarh and Sanjay Srivastav of Lucknow, were arrested by a joint team of   police and Telengana police on May 17, 2017. They were brought on production warrants to Chandigarh in JBT teacher recruitment scam on July 7, 2017. The trio reportedly has a track record of leaking question papers in different parts of the country.
 
 The teachers’ recruitment examination for which papers were leaked was held in January-February 2015. The vigilance bureau officials said that the examination was conducted in Panjab University while the question papers were printed in Delhi.
 
  Agents of Srivastav along with Dinesh Yadav were posted to facilitate the question paper leak. Shiv Bahadur was the one to aid the gang by leaking papers to Lucknow and New Delhi. 
 
 On July 29 last year, Chandigarh police had registered an FIR in the case of alleged leak of question papers for the recruitment of 1,150 junior basic training (JBT), trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and nursery training teachers (NTTs) in January and February last year.
 
 
