NAGPUR: A detailed report submitted by agro-economist has stated that   uses only one-third of the power that it generates while the rest is distributed to other parts of  . By making Vidarbha a separate state, we can generate revenue with the surplus electricity and also cut down the cost of consumption, it stated.

 The report was submitted by Khandewale, also the director of RS Ruikar Institute of Labour and Socio-Cultural Studies (RILSCS), during the second national-level convention organized by   ( ) at Deshpande Hall on Monday to press for separate Vidarbha state.
 
 The survey on ‘political economy of Maharashtra with special reference to Vidarbha’ was also translated into Marathi for better outreach. The survey was conducted by Khandewale and GS Khwaja, senior official at  , to study the backwardness in the region.
 
 Khwaja said, “We are getting a step-motherly treatment as our resources and funds are being diverted due to political conspiracies despite Vidarbha having a great potential to be self-sufficient. We have proposed two budgets in our report and an efficient money management plan through which we can not only survive but prosper.”
 
 The inauguration ceremony of the two-day event was held under the president-ship of former MLA Wamanrao Chatap. Ram Neole, director of the convention, along with pro-Vidarbha leaders including Dhanajay Dharmik, former chief commissioner of income tax, advocate Nanda Parate, former director general of police Prabir Chakraborty were present on the dais.
 
 Many social activists and families of farmers who committed suicide also attended the convention.
 
 Khwaja added, “Even BR Ambedkar strongly pitched for a separate Vidarbha because he knew it would be difficult to manage a huge state like Maharashtra and indeed after the merger, our region has not progressed. The people in power have turned a blind eye to unemployment, irrigation and agricultural facilities.”
 
 Chatap said the report was a “ready reference” which could be followed for proper functioning of free Vidarbha. Issues like empowerment of women, generation of employment, farmer suicides and other matters would be discussed during the sessions.
 
 
