NEW DELHI: The producer and director of the controversial film "Padmaavat" moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday challenging the decision of four states to ban its screening within their jurisdictions just days before its scheduled release on January 25. 

  Director Sanjay Leela Bhansali, with the producer and the marketing rights holder, pleaded through advocate Mahesh Agrawal with a bench headed by CJI Dipak Misra for an urgent hearing on the joint petition seeking a direction from the SC to the governments of Gujarat, MP, Rajasthan and Haryana to facilitate safe screening of the film. 
 
  
  
 Blaming state governments for acting under the pressure of fringe groups to ban exhibition of the film in their states, the petitioners said the film had to clear layers of objections and finally got a certificate permitting public exhibition from the Central Board of Film Certification ( ) after five changes, including altering the name from "Padmavati" to "Padmaavat". Rajput groups like the   have been up in arms against the film, claiming it portrays the story of Queen Padmini of Mewar in a distorted fashion.
 
 The CBFC cleared the film after a disclaimer was agreed upon that the film was based on a work of fiction and a song sequence was altered to keep sensitivities in mind. But the protesters have continued to demand a nationwide ban on the film.
 
 The petitioners said once the film was cleared by the CBFC, the statutory body under Cinematograph Act, 1952, state governments were prohibited from taking any unilateral action to ban exhibition of the film which formed part of the filmmaker’s freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. 
 
 “Feeling threatened by the demand for banning this film by a few fringe groups who have taken it upon themselves to be the sole arbiter of what is permissible free speech, the states have imposed a blanket ban on exhibition of this film,” they said. 
 
 Senior advocate Harish Salve will argue for the petitioners before the CJI-led bench on Thursday. “The states have no right to prohibit exhibition of a film which has been certified fit by the CBFC. The power of the state is limited to regulation of cinemas. The limited power to deal with emergencies arising upon the exhibition of a film has been conferred upon states under local laws. The SC has already settled the issue relating to the limited power of states under local laws and has ruled that states cannot abuse this power to ban movies that have been certified as fit for public exhibition,” the petitioners said. 
 
 They said it was the duty of the state to “provide full protection and security to cinema halls where controversial movies are being screened”. 
 
 The petitioners said that apart from changing the title, they had put a disclaimer on the historical accuracy of the sequence of events, an additional disclaimer that the film did not subscribe or glorify the practice of “Sati”; modified the “Ghoomar” song and removed references to actual cities in dialogues. 
 
 The film is based on the epic “Padmavat” written by Malik Muhammad Jayasi in 1540.
 
  
 
