NAGPUR: The HSC   question paper evoked mixed reactions from the students as some found the theory portion challenging, while others found the numerical questions tough.

 “Students were advised to study the theory thoroughly. Those who had practiced well would easily pass the  ,” said Sanjay Charalwar, principal of Mohota Science College. He found the paper easy enough for the students to pass it, but a little difficult for them to score full marks.
 
 “Numerical questions were a bit tricky as it checked the students’ overall knowledge. But nothing that a thorough study couldn’t help,” he added.
 
 Student Nikhil Gharat said, “I was relieved to see the question paper as I knew the answers well. I was very confident about it and didn’t find it challenging.” Another student Alisha Mate said, “I found the paper easy as I had prepared well in advance. But yes, the numerical questions were a tough nut to crack and I think a little more study of the subject would have made it better.”
 
 Before the exam, students were advised to solve previous years’ question papers so that they are aware about the type of questions asked and they have a practice of writing the exam. Student Himanshu Meshram said, “I found the paper difficult as it was nothing like the practice papers I solved earlier. The multiple choice questions were simple but confusing.”
 
 Student Vinit Khapre said, “The paper was moderately difficult. Some parts were easy but there were some parts that I found challenging. I had done an exhaustive practice of numerical questions so they weren’t difficult at all for me. The last two questions were comparatively tough but there was a choice in it too.”
 
 Vandana Sinha said, “I am quite content with the paper and the easiest part was the theoretical and multiple choice questions.”
 
 Paper rating-
 
 Toughness: Medium
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Paper length: proper 
 
 Copying Cases 
 
 Bhandara- 1
 
 Chandrapur- 0
 
 Nagpur- 0
 
 Wardha- 0
 
 Gadchiroli- 1
 
 Gondia- 3
 
 
