"I'm writing this to (finally) admit and confess that I, for a very long time have been suffering from severe anxiety and depression," wrote   in an   post on Friday. The 17-year-old actor, who starred in the blockbuster 'Dangal', added that her battle with clinical   started four years ago when she just 13.

 
 It's a common misconception that depression is a disorder that affects only older folks, and most teenagers are not diagnosed until adulthood. Wasim, too, remembers "being told that there's no such thing as depression, it only happens to people above 25." But data released by the WHO shows that one in four teenagers in India in the 13-15 years age bracket have depression. What's more,   data for 2015 revealed that one student commits suicide every hour in India.
 
  
  
 Dr Deepak Gupta, psychiatrist for children and adolescents, says adolescent depression is definitely on the rise. "We get cases of teenagers who have attempted self-harm or are too depressed to go to school. But people often confuse adolescent depression with adolescence," says Gupta. After all, mood swings, anger outbursts, and rebellion are part and parcel of stormy teenage years. But parents need to raise a red flag if school performance drops, the child becomes reclusive, stops attending school or attempts self-harm.
 
 Wasim, too, lists the problems she wrestled with. "Popping 5 antidepressants every day, anxiety attacks... feeling empty, restless, anxious, hallucinations, having sore limbs from sleeping too much to not being able to sleep for weeks, from overeating to starving myself, unexplained fatigue, body ache, self-loathing, nervous breakdowns, suicidal thoughts were all parts of this PHASE," she says.
 
 Gupta lists genetics, poor coping skills in teens and social trauma like family conflict, domestic abuse and impact of social media which results in low self-esteem as reasons for the rise in adolescent depression. "Today, teens are being exposed to more and more trauma. Over time, these traumas keep accumulating and a trigger may bring it all out as depression," says Gupta who often sees patients as young as 11 and 12.
 
 He cites a recent case of a 15-year-old girl who confided to her school counselor, and not her parents, that she'd been harming herself. The school then contacted the parents who then brought her to him.
 
 Girls, in fact, are more prone to adolescent depression. A 2017 study published in the journal Translational Psychiatry found that teen girls were thrice more likely than boys to be depressed. The study looked at data of 1,00,000 teens in the ages between 12 and 17.
 
