Mohali: A day after Chandigarh businessman Vikram Chopra’s SUV (sports utility vehicle) was taken away at gunpoint from his driver outside a pre-wedding venue in Zirakpur, the latter is now the only clue to the carjackers.

 Since security cameras fitted near the scene of crime have failed to capture any image of the culprits, police will need their sketch for the hunt, and the accuracy of those portraits depends on the driver’s description of the gang. 
 
 Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) inspector Pawan Kumar said: “To go after the carjackers, we will need Chopra’s driver, Rahul, to describe them to our artists for a criminal sketch, as he’s the only one who saw them. The youths who pointed a gun at him were barefaced.”
 
 Police are also trying to hold an identification parade of the usual suspects before the driver. Several teams are working on the case and raiding the possible hideouts of the mystery gang. 
 
 The registration number of the car has been flashed on wireless to the police stations in Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh. On Saturday, driver Rahul was resting inside the Toyota Fortuner after dinner at the pre-wedding ‘sangeet’ ceremony when the carjacking happened. Car owner Vikram Chopra had come to this family function of his neighbour from Sector 43. He two sons and he came to the party at 9.15pm, and after a little more than an hour, Chopra told his driver Rahul to have dinner before they could leave. 
 
 Rahul had his food, returned to the car around 10.30pm, and must have waited for the Chopras for 10 minutes when he heard a knocking on the driver’s window and rolled down the glass.
 
 That’s when a well-built man pulled out a gun and told him to stay quiet and move back from the wheel. The entire gang then came over and threatened to shoot him, if he didn’t cooperate. Rahul moved to the rear seat as asked and one of the carjackers took the steering wheel. 
 
 After half-a-kilometre or so, Rahul jumped off the car and received scratches. He still walked back to the resort, where he found Chopra and told him what had happened. Chopra rang up the police control room and called cops to the resort. 
 
 Police say the last location of the driver’s mobile phone that was left in the SUV was near the IT Park in Chandigarh. The device was switched off after minutes.
 
 
