JAIPUR : It’s raining   for doctors in the state’s proposed medical colleges. Doctors are getting jobs by passing walk-in interviews on urgent temporary basis.

 After being denied permission from   (MCI), state's medical education department has started recruiting faculties for the seven proposed medical colleges in a hurry.
 
 The proposed medical colleges are showing hurry in recruiting the faculty in an effort to fill the vacant posts of teachers, senior residents and junior residents. 
 
  
 The medical education department is making last-ditch effort to begin the new medical colleges from this session 2018-19. The MCI had pointed out that more than 50% of post of faculties was lying vacant in the proposed medical colleges of the state. Hence, they had recommended to the Centre not to give permission to these medical colleges. 
 
 Now, the medical education department has decided to fill the vacant post so that when MCI team inspects the proposed medical colleges, it will not find any deficiency for getting its permission to begin the medical college session from the upcoming academic session. 
 
 Proposed   medical college principal issued orders on Friday for inviting candidates for posts of professor (two posts), associate professors (15 posts) and assistant professors (for three posts). “All candidates qualifying for the posts and willing to join Churu medical college on urgent temporary basis can attend walk in interview in the chamber of principal and controller with all necessary original documents, four recent photographs and two sets of self-attested photocopies on January 24,” said, a medical education department official. 
 
 It is recruiting faculties in anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, pathology, microbiology and other branches. 
 
 In past 10 days, proposed medical colleges in  , Bhilwara, Churu, Pali and   have started issuing notices for recruitment of faculty. However, Barmer medical college has issued its list of faculties recruited on January 12 along with posts and salaries. A Professor is getting Rs 1.3 lakh as consolidated salary, while associate professor gets Rs 84,400 consolidated salary. Senior resident doctor gets Rs 68,200 and junior residents are getting Rs 53,600 as consolidated salary per month. 
 
 Apart from teaching faculties, the proposed medical colleges are recruiting paramedical staff as per the norms of MCI for getting tag of medical college.
 
 
