BHOPAL: Two former DGPs of   — Nandan Dubey and   — who were appointed vice-chairmen of Disaster Management Institute ( ) and   (MPDMA), after approval of the state cabinet, haven’t been paid for over one and a half years.

 Both appointments were made in 2016, but their salaries are tied up in a tussle between the home and finance departments, say sources. While the home department claims that things are under process, sources in the government say finance officers have raised strong objections on these two appointments, saying they violate the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Formation of service rules for these two posts — a mandatory part for releasing pay — is on hold owing to these objections, said sources.
 
 “We have sent a proposal to the finance department and things are in process,”  , additional chief secretary-home told TOI. Similarly, ACS-finance A P   said the department has received the proposal from the home department and is “looking into it”.
 
 Dubey, an IPS officer of 1976 batch, retired as DGP MP Police on September 30, 2014. His successor, 1980-batch IPS officer Surendra Sinh, superannuated on June 30, 2016.
 
 The DMI was established in 1987 in the backdrop of the world’s worst chemical disaster as an autonomous organization of the housing and environment department and is now under administrative control of home department. MPSDMA is a statutory body created under the provisions of Disaster Management Act, 2005, passed by Parliament.
 
 It is said that the state government ‘tweaked’ DMA 2005 while forming disaster management authority. As per the Act, the CM should be ex officio chairperson of MPSDMA but in MP, the home minister holds this post. The CM is designated chairperson of MPSDMA’s steering committee. “There is no provision of a steering committee in DMA. And the chief secretary of the state should be ex officio chief executive officer of any state disaster management authority, as per the Act,” said a senior IAS officer.
 
 An IPS officer, however, feels it’s a sign of “babus trying to secure more posts for people from their own fraternity”. When it comes to rehabilitation of retired IAS officers, things move unexpectedly faster, he said, pointing at the formation of MP’s RERA unit as an example. “MP RERA is functioning properly, and officials are getting paid although it was constituted much after MPDMA. The chairman of RERA is a retired IAS officer,” he said.
 
