NAGPUR: The three-day 55th Annual National Conference of All India Occupational Therapists’ Association ( ) began on Friday at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Smarak Samiti Auditorium, Deekshabhoomi. The conference was themed around ‘independence, empowerment and inclusion’.

 In the afternoon, interactions took place between paediatrics on several topics including ‘Case Management Services in India’, ‘Effectiveness of sensory integration on sensory reactivity and social responsiveness’ and ‘Using the ICF as a planning tool for children with Cerebral Palsy’, among others. The interactions were chaired by Dr Gazala Makda, Dr   and Dr Jayant Mahure. Dr Bodhankar also delivered a guest lecture on ‘Community based rehabilitation’. Special lectures by experts and a panel discussion on ‘Way ahead for occupational therapist’ was also held.
 
 The inauguration was held in the evening. In his opening address, AIOTA president   said, “OT is an internationally recognized advanced discipline in the modern health care system. There has been multi-faceted development in academics, service-delivery and technology, and above all the research and development in occupational therapy. But we have miles to go to meet the challenges of the future,” he said.
 
 He added that common occupational therapy interventions include helping children with disability to participate in his school, helping people with injuries to regain their skills and providing support for older adults in experiencing physical and cognitive changes. He appealed to the government to set up Indian Council of Occupational Therapy.
 
 Shrivastava also shared news that members of AIOTA now own an office in Nerul, Navi Mumbai, and was registered on November 3 last year. This office was virtually inaugurated by mayor Nanda Jichkar, who was the chief guest at the event.
 
 Ex-directors of Nagpur GMCH and noted occupational therapists Dr MG Deo and Dr VS Thombre were conferred with lifetime achievement award. Professional excellence awards and fellowships of Academic Council of Occupational Therapy were also handed out. Jichkar shared her pride that the conference was held in the city, and said the profession of occupational therapists is admirable. Corporator Deven Kasture was also present at the event.
 
 
