MUMBAI: A 15-year-old leapt off the 14th floor of a Kandivli (east) highrise early on Tuesday after he was allegedly reprimanded for excessive use of cellphones and social media. A resident spotted the teenager sitting on a ledge nearly half an hour before the tragedy and alerted security, but by the time a guard reached the spot, he had jumped. 

 
 The teen left behind a note on Instagram Stories apologizing to everyone.
 
 The boy was good in studies and had cleared his   in the   of a  . An avid footballer, he was also training at an Andheri-based football academy.
 
 As his parents travel extensively for their travel and tourism business, the boy and his older sister spent most of their time with their grandfather who lived in the highrise. Their parents own a flat in the adjacent building.
 
 Around 5.30am on Tuesday, a 10th-floor resident of the highrise was cooking when she saw the teenager seated on the ledge of the refuge area on the 14th floor of the opposite wing. “It was dark and I could not see his face. I could only see his legs dangling from the ledge and immediately called up a security guard,” she told TOI. Ten minutes later, the teen had not moved from his position and she called up the guard again. The guard told her that he had informed his supervisor and the latter was on his way up. Around 5.55am, when another resident was headed for her morning walk, she heard a loud thud. The teen is believed to have plunged to his death just as the supervisor reached the 14th floor. A pair of headphones and a portable speaker was found on the ledge.
 
 The guards immediately informed his mother and sister who rushed to the highrise. His father, who is currently in Canada on work, is yet to reach India. Friends said the teen was speaking to a friend on the phone around 1.30am when his mother entered his room and reprimanded him for being hooked to gadgets and asked him to get some sleep. Around 3am, he posted a message on Instagram Stories, which read: “Sorry if I’ve ever done any of y’all wrong.” He also posted two other pictures on Instagram—one with a female friend and another with a male friend. He captioned these two pictures, “I got real ones, love you both a lot.”
 
 While his grieving family refused to speak on the tragedy, his friends said he had showed no signs of being troubled till Monday evening. “He hung out with us, laughed and cracked jokes on Monday evening. He did not seem upset at all,” said a close friend. Another added that the teen was good at academics. “Our results were out quite a while back and he was under no pressure from his family as far as studies were concerned. We have no clue what went wrong,” he said. The police will examine the teen’s cellphone and social media accounts to find out if he killed himself for any other reason.
 
 An accidental death case has been registered. The post-mortem examination is yet to be conducted.
 
