This group of shutter-crazy photowalkers calls themselves Photographers@Pune . They have been capturing facets of the city on their DSLRs, SLRs, point-and-shoot cameras,even on their cellphones for the past 12 years.
 
 “Our most popular meeting place is   because the old part of the city has a beautiful charm. You get amazing photos in the morning. Everytime we go to the Peth areas around the fort, we get something new,”  , an IT professional, and one of the founding members of the group, says.
 
 
  
 
 On an average, around 50 members participate in photowalks. “We walk around various parts of the city, mostly on Saturdays. We organise such walks even during the Ganapati festival. During wari, we go up to Dive ghat with the warkaris. Alongside, we click photos and enjoy ourselves,” he adds.
 
 The members meet regularly for photo shoots, seminars and workshops. “Ours is an informal group but we insist on fulfilment of two basic parameters — a passion for photography and some connection with Pune — to become our member,” says Inamdar. Currently, the group has around 6,500 members on  .
 
 The group had a tepid beginning in 2006, when one of Inamdar’s friends returned from the US. “My friend was part of a community of photographers there and thought of starting a similar one in Pune. We kicked off with 5-6 members. I was one of the first 15 members. Since then, we have been meeting and organising shoots across Pune,” he says.
 
 Initially, it was word-of-mouth publicity that drew in members. “Later, we opened an account on image-and-video-hosting website Flickr because we wanted the entire world to see our photographs. Many people joined the group. In fact, that is how I came to know about the group,” says  , a software professional.
 
 The group had only 100-120 members in the first year. “Then it started to grow. On an average, 30 new members and 1,000 new photographs are added to the community every week,” says Inamdar.
 
 With the launch of Facebook, interest in photography among amateur photographers in the city received a further boost. “In a way, the popularity of the social networking site contributed to our growth. So much so, that we shifted our group to Facebook from Flickr,” he says.
 
 As many people came on board, the group expanded its activities to holding monthly photography contests, workshops and organising chitra kathas. “For the monthly contest, we select a theme such as silhouettes, birds, or even macrophotography, which is extreme close-up photography. All members can participate in the contest,” says Inamdar.
 
 To develop skills and talent, the group organises regular workshops — both indoor as well as outdoor.
 
 But members point out that photography is not something technical or about adjusting the shutter and aperture. Every photograph tells a story and in order to know the story, the group started chitra katha. “We have an open forum where members weave their stories around their photographs. For example, a members recently told us about her journey through   and the warmth she received from the people through a series of photographs,” says Saave.
 
 There is never a dull moment at Photographers@Pune as the members are always trying out new things. “Currently, we are excited about a new style of photography called flat lay, which has emerged because of Instagram. It is basically a combination of things you collect and how to exhibit them. It is something unique and beautiful in photography.”
 
 Since most members are working professionals or students, the interaction is not always face to face but online too. “We have various groups. One group could be interested in landscapes, while another group in camera gear. So we have created online forums where people interact regularly. It is an excellent place where you can ask questions and seek answers from members,” says Saave.
 
 “We use two channels mainly for communication -- Facebook and Flak, which is similar to WhatsApp.”
 
