AHMEDABAD: Jafar Mirza (30) and his wife   (28) had named their son   at birth but they call him “Pankaj Khan”.

 This is the Muslim couple’s tribute to the doctor who made sure Shaima became a mother despite suffering severe medical complications due to a rare autoimmune disorder. The Mirzas call their two-year-old son  , as a tribute to Dr Pankaj Shah, head of the department (HOD) of nephrology and transplants in Civil Hospital.
 
 Shaima suffered from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a chronic auto- immune disease which damaged her kidney and uterus. Before the birth of ‘Pankaj Khan”, Shaima had given birth to three children but all them died soon after birth.
 
 “Pained that we would never become parents, we consulted Dr Pankaj Shah and he treated Shaima for two and a half years. It is only thanks to his treatment that Pankaj Khan was born. Naming our child after the good doctor was our way of saying thank you to someone who is nothing short of God for us,” says Mirza.
 
 Mirza, who used to earn a living by enough by pounding silver foil for ornamentation on sweets, now drives an auto-rickshaw. Shaima and he are both natives of Jaipur in   and they married in 2008. They reside at Jeetu Bhagat Compound in the Shah-e-Alam area. 
 
 “I gave birth to my first baby in 2009, who died soon after his birth. He was suffering from hydrocephalus. After two years my second baby also did not survive. We were in pained. I got pregnant again but the doctors advised abortion as the fetus was abnormal,” said Shaima Mirza.
 
 Mirza said they tried lots of treatments and three years back ago someone referred them to Dr Pankaj Shah. “He treated Shaima for and about two and half years ago Shaima gave birth Pankaj Khan,” added Mirza. Dr Shah said SLE disease had damaged Shaima’s kidneys and uterus and that is why the children she conceived or gave birth to could not survive.
 
 “SLE is chronic autoimmune disease of the connective tissue. It can affect any part of the body which may result in broad spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from dermatological disorders to multiple organ failure. It happens to one in ten thousand people and is rare,” said Dr Shah, adding, “I treated her before childbirth.”
 
 
