MUMBAI: Singer  , whose   rammed into an autorickshaw at   on Monday injuring two people, said the fact that he was in a big car made the impact much worse. Narayan who rushed the duo to the hospital and is footing their medical bills, said the accident was unfortunate and he felt sorry for what had happened. 
 
 
  
 
 "I was headed to the gym and was on Lokhandwala back road around 12.30pm. Usually, I use my motorcycle for short commutes but I used the car on Monday as it was a longer drive from Andheri to Bandra," he told TOI. "I was driving straight when the autorickshaw driver suddenly appeared in front of me. He was trying to take a right turn and the impact was on the side of the auto. As soon as I gathered what was going to happen, I tried to avoid hitting him and move leftwards. I assumed he would slow down but instead he went full throttle," he added.
 
 Narayan said the auto lost control and toppled right before his eyes. The elderly driver, Rajkumar Palekar (54), and his passenger, Surekha Shivekar (32), were thrown out. "The airbags in my car popped out. My immediate reaction was to check on the auto driver and passenger. She was conscious and moaning in pain but he, being much older, had lost consciousness immediately. I dialled the police emergency number '100' but it was busy. Around 50 people gathered after the accident but nobody offered to help," said Narayan. 
 
 As his car was damaged, Narayan halted two autorickshaws. He sought help from a passerby and lifted Shivekar into one of the autos while Palekar was moved to the other one. The duo was then rushed to the   at Four Bungalows. "I contacted their families and found out they are economically disadvantaged. I have spoken to their doctors and would be taking care of their expenses," he said. 
 
 On Tuesday, he visited Palekar and Shivekar at the hospital. Shivekar, a widow, has suffered bruises and was going to be discharged in a day. "But she isn't in a situation to receive care at home and so, I've asked her to stay in the hospital until she recovers fully. Palekar has suffered swellings and will take slightly more time than her to recuperate," said Narayan. Police officials said Narayan was arrested following the mishap and subsequently released on bail. 
 
 
  
 
