BENGALURU: Political parties have embarked on drafting their manifestos for the assembly elections and their think-tanks are sweating it out to give the documents much-needed touches of credibility and relevance.

 All major parties --  ,   and   (Secular) -- asserted that their manifestos this time will be unique. The BJP, for instance, is saying that its leadership is putting together a customized poll manifesto for each of Karnataka’s 224 assembly constituencies, besides a general manifesto for the state.
 
 An exclusive manifesto for each constituency seems to be an ambitious goal, but BJP leaders say they are serious about customization, especially for urban pockets like Bengaluru and Tier-2 cities. So constituents of Bengaluru’s 28 assembly segments can expect tailor-made manifestos.
 
 “The idea is to draw a clear-cut roadmap for the development of the constituency, and address issues unique to the segment. It will help chalk out an action plan, serve as a guide and set milestones for MLAs over their tenure,” said S  , chairman of the manifesto committee.
 
 He said the committee has started receiving inputs from stakeholders for the state manifesto, the draft of which will be ready by February 3. A sub-committee headed by Malleswaram MLA Dr Ashwath Narayan was constituted to draft a customized manifesto for the constituencies. Suresh Kumar said the sub-committee has already conducted consultations for over 70 constituencies so far.
 
 The BJP’s customized manifesto for Mahadevapura, for instance, talks about sustainable solutions for the highly-polluted Bellandur Lake. The issues of hawkers, road connectivity and sanitation would top the agenda for Chickpet and Chamarajpet. Safety, mobility, law and order, and property development will get priority in segments like Bommanahalli and BTM Layout, which house IT corridors.
 
 
 
 
 The Congress is not lagging in terms of ideation. Party manifesto committee chairman M   said the state has been divided into six zones, and the manifesto will have a focused approach to these zones. “The zones are Bengaluru, coastal, central, south, north and North Karnataka, and the roadmap will be unique to each zone,” said Moily.
 
 Laying special emphasis on the development of Bengaluru city, the committee started convening meetings of stakeholders. On Sunday, Moily met representatives of the Federation of Karnataka Film Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI) and town planning experts. He said the Congress manifesto will be ready by February-end.
 
 The JD(S) has formed a think-tank, comprising experts from across domains, to advise the party leadership on the manifesto. The thinktank is scheduled to meet next week, leaders said.
 
 
 
 
 Experts, however, have taken a dim view of the manifesto exercise of various parties, terming them a ritual that would never rise above the rhetoric.
 
 “In the absence of a legal methodology to enforce the parties’ manifestos, they will, by and large, remain a mere ritual, which neither party leaders nor voters take seriously,” said Trilochana Sastry, chairman of Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).
 
 In a bid to bring in order, the Election Commission (EC) had in 2015 issued a notification to include the poll manifesto in the model code of conduct, according to which parties have to submit copies of their manifestos to the EC. But, the commission’s efforts have not gone beyond that.
 
 “The EC cannot monitor implementation of manifesto post-elections. However, the Supreme Court’s guidelines restrict parties from doling out freebies in the guise of manifesto. The EC can monitor that,” said T S Krishnamurthy, former chief election commissioner of India.
 
 
 
 
 • Comprehensive legislation to manage BBMP, bring service providers including BWSSB, Bescom, BDA, BMTC under single agency
 
 • Review existing size and quantum of BBMP jurisdiction, organize it into administratively viable units
 
 • Develop circular railway
 
 • Make Bengaluru slumfree in five years
 
 • Construct five auditoriums on the lines of Ravindra Kalakshetra
 
 
