NASHIK: The Election Commission (EC) has set the date for MLC teachers’ constituency election of   as June 25, a senior district administration official said on Thursday.

 The model code of conduct (MCOC) once again comes into force from Thursday as it was about to be relaxed after the announcement of the results of members of legislative council for local body — the election for which were held on May 21.
 
 “Since the elections are held for Nashik and the jurisdiction is Nashik division, including Ahmednagar, Nandgaon, Dhule and Jalgaon districts, the model code of conduct will now be applicable to all the four districts including Nashik,” the official said.
 
 It should be noted that the EC had earlier announced the teachers’ constituency election on June 8, but it was postponed indefinitely after some of the MLCs and aspirants petitioned and pointed out that the teachers were on holiday and were unlikely to be available for elections on that day. Now the elections are being held on June 25.
 
 “The divisional commissioner of Nashik is the returning officer for the election and the district collectors will be the assistant returning officers. As model code of conduct is now in force, the state government and ministers cannot announce anything that will affect the electors and at the same time all the office-bearers of all the local bodies in the division will now have to discard their official vehicles when they are going for any other purpose than the scheduled visit or works,” another officer from the revenue divisional headquarters said.
 
 A model code of conduct cell has also been formed at the divisional headquarters and will have its offices at the district headquarters as well. “Defacement of public property for the election purposes will not be allowed in any condition. The boards and flexes of all the political parties will now have to be removed and covered as the case may be till the model code of conduct was in force,” another senior official said.
 
 The notification for the election will be issued on May 31, and the nomination forms will be made available from the same day. The last date for filing of nomination is June 7, while the scrutiny of the nominations will be held on June 8.
 
 The last date for withdrawal of nomination is June 11, while the elections, if required, will be held on June 25 and the counting has been slated on June 28. 
 
 
