KOLKATA/MUMBAI: A doctor treating 32-year-old Debkumar Maity, who was arrested for allegedly harassing a former Indian cricketer’s daughter in Mumbai, described him as a patient of   who suffers from “disillusionment”.

 “Such patients, on most occasions, do not realise the consequence of an act. Hence, while it seems funny, outrageous or simply an act of madness to call up someone of the stature of this famous cricketer and asking his daughter’s hand in marriage, for him, it is just like approaching any other person,” said SP Mukherjee, a consultant neuropsychiatrist who treated Maity at his chambers on Midnapore Station Road for the past five years.
 
 
 Mukherjee added that patients like Maity often get better if they take their medicines regularly, but in this case, he often skipped his medicines and avoided regular visits to the doctor. Maity had visited Mukherjee’s chambers on December 20 and before that, on October 10. But prior to the October visit, he had come to Mukherjee’s chamber on July 2016 and skipped several sessions in between.
 
 “He is under an illusion that the cricketer’s daughter also likes him and he has every right to marry her,” said the doctor.
 
 Mukherjee stated that Maity was advised to take medicines like Relicam plus, Relihexy 2, R-Zep 2, Phenergan, Chlorpromazine 25, Octoxid and Ativan — all used to treat acute schizophrenia, Parkinson’s disease, depression, sleeplessness and emotional instability.
 
 Maity’s mother Kanaklata had claimed on Sunday that her son had become mentally unstable since he had a break up in 2010. His treatment started in 2011. “Over the years, the disease got the better of him and he often used to get violent. My son didn’t realise what crime he had done by calling up the cricketer’s home. I plead mercy for him,” she said.
 
 Maity was produced before a Mumbai court on Monday and was sent to police custody till January 11. “He claimed to have got hold of the landline number from one of his cousins. The cricketer’s personal assistant used to respond to the calls on most occasions and when he said he would lodge a police complaint, Maity threatened to kidnap the girl. This is when the personal assistant lodged the complaint on behalf of the cricketer,” said an officer at Bandra police station.
 
 On being informed about the man’s mental condition the officer said: “So far we haven’t found any streak of violence or mental instability in him. However, we will question him further and, if needed, get him checked by adoctor.”
 
