NEW DELHI: The   whose advice   many   of the  , including when Delhi was under  , has put in his papers. Additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain quit citing personal reasons earlier this month, after a tenure of more than three years.

 Sources said he had been asked to continue by the Centre till a replacement was found. The senior lawyer is expected to appear in the high-voltage hearing in Delhi high court next week on the petitions challenging the disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs.
 
 Jain’s tenure as ASG in HC coincided with politically tumultuous days for the capital, which saw not just two bouts of assembly elections, but also a spell of President’s rule where every decision was taken in his name by the then LG, Najeeb Jung. Jain remained a constant source of legal advice for administering Delhi during this period when his opinions and appearance in court were often also sought by Delhi Police.
 
 But it was in the second term of the Arvind Kejriwal government that Jain found himself at the centre of the constant friction between Centre (through its representative, the LG) and the AAP government.
 
 With most decisions taken by CM, or his ministers, being overruled by LG, matters eventually piled up in Delhi HC. Be it a probe into the CNG fitness scam or transfer and appointments of bureaucrats to revision of circle rates, ordering a vigilance inquiry, policy directions in the power sector to appointment of special public prosecutors, it was Jain who defended LG in court.
 
 This led to several showdowns between Jain and AAP government lawyers who questioned LG’s authority to overlook them on the panel and appoint ASG as his legal representative. During his tenure, Jain’s biggest challenge came when he successfully secured primacy for LG in administering the Union territory of Delhi. 
 
 With AAP government pressing into action a battery of 10 senior advocates to argue its case, the Centre relied on its0 only ASG in HC and managed to get a favourable verdict, something Jain cherishes, he told TOI.
 
 Last year, LG Anil Baijal took key decisions on the basis of legal opinion received from Jain on dismantling of assembly committees, the extent of their powers and also if CM Kejriwal was justified in using public money to himself in the defamation suits slapped by Union minister Arun Jaitley.
 
 
