NASHIK: Environment activists submitted a memorandum to municipal commissioner   stating their objections against certain in Project   under the   Mission.

 Godapremi Seva Samiti chairperson  , secretary Narendra Dharane, Padmakar Patil, Atul Shewale, Chirag Gupta, Yogesh Ramaiyya and a host of other activists presented the memorandum with 1,599 signatures of citizens along with their phone numbers. They had a detailed discussion with Mundhe.
 
 Their demands included rejuvenation of 17 ancient ponds that are concealed beneath the concrete river. These ponds were built by great leaders around 1700 BC. The memorandum mentions that Rs 330 crore project includes a proposal to give a concrete look to River Godavari but there is no provision to rejuvenate the river and make it healthy. 
 
 Activists said they also objected to the diversion of River Aruna from the confluence of   at Ramkund. They demanded rejuvenation of the major tributaries- Aruna and Varuna (Waghadi) -that meet River Godavari. 
 
 The activists appealed to the civic chief to make the river flow consistent by rejuvenating the natural springs hidden below the concrete.
 
 "In 2015, a sloping road was constructed over the flow of Aruna River. In Project Goda, diversion of Aruna from the confluence of Aruna-Godavari at Ramkund has been mentioned. The importance of all religious activities is due to the confluence of Aruna and Godavari at Ramkund. NMC should rectify its mistake," said Jani. 
 
 Godapremi Seva Samiti and other environmental activists have been opposing concretisation of the river and have been insisting on the revival of the river and natural springs hidden below the concrete.
 
 Mundhe said he would study the issue and then decide the future course of action. 
 
 The civic chief had already instructed the officials of Smart City to contain constructions within the blue line of the river as per National Environmental Engineering Research Institute's (NEERI) directions in the river pollution case at the high court. 
 
 
