GURGAON: For the first time in years, the aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses in Gurgaon’s power distribution, have dropped to 8%, down from 18% last year. It is the lowest in all 11 districts in south Haryana, administered by discom   ( ).

 Officials said this will allow them to account for every unit of power supplied to Gurgaon, and curb scheduled power cuts this coming summer due to high losses as often as before. The discom had to shut down supply often to make up for losses in 2017. DHBVN purchases power from transmission company  . Currently, its monthly purchases for Gurgaon Circle 2 alone stands at Rs 300 crore (highest in Haryana), for around 1.5 crore units of power a day. While technical losses are inevitable, commercial losses can be mitigated through proper billing and reduction in power theft through tighter patrolling.
 
 Gurgaon city has 474 feeders, of which 23 are agricultural power feeders, 24 are rural development feeders, 156 are urban feeders and 214 are independent feeders. Officials told TOI that AT&C losses are apparently high on the agricultural and urban feeders, at around 8% and 40% losses respectively, while industrial feeders suffer 3% losses and independent feeders, nil. The figure of 8.48% is an average of all the feeders.
 
 Officials told TOI this was possible on account of a range of measures taken since last year. “On June 2017, our AT&C losses stood at 18%. We’re supposed to bring losses down as we purchase power from HVPNL. So if there is wastage due to power theft and other issues, it means those units are unaccounted for, and to make up for the loss, we initiate power cuts. In 2017, we had to initiate many cuts in the city because of  ,” said K C Aggarwal, superintendent engineer, New Gurgaon Circle.
 
 DHBVN officials said while technical losses are inevitable, the city would benefit by curbing commercial losses. “The ideal figure for commercial losses is 5-6%,” he said. “A number of measures helped us achieve this year’s figure, including our loss reduction plan, the   scheme, recovery of theft amounts, etc.
 
 
