MASOL:   is a village just about 10 km from Punjab chief minister’s official residence, but it will get its first   landline connection only now. By the end of this March, BSNL will finish laying an optical fibre cable (OFC) to Masol, the village’s first, according to a top official of the government run telecom service provider.

 Masol is famous for fossils found on hilltops surrounding it. However, because it happens to be the last village on Punjab’s border with Haryana and falls in the ecologically sensitive Lower Shivaliks, civic amenities are far and few. BSNL general manager (Chandigarh) J S   said the cable was being laid as part of the Centre’s   initiative.
 
 When asked why the village is getting a BSNL connection so late, though it is a 20-minute drive from state capital Chandigarh, Sahota cited the Masol’s “remote” location and lack of demand. “Even now, we are just laying the cable and providing the infrastructure. BBNL will provide services,” he said.
 
 For locals, the cable will mean better education for children at the local middle school. “I have been told that a machine will be set up near the school, and teachers will use the internet to teach our kids,” said Harnek Singh, the sarpanch of Masol.
 
 According to Harnek, 60 children are enrolled in the school which has two teachers. “Children who study past Class V have to trek 5km through the jungle to attend school in Kiratpur (Haryana),” he said. “Before this, the only receiver telephones we had were of Reliance and Tata.”
 
 To date, the road to Masol is not reliable. At two points, one has to drive over the bed of a stream to reach the village. According to Harnek, leaving the village and entering it gets impossible on a few occasions during monsoon.
 
 The stream is dry most of the year, but if it rains heavily, one can easily drown. At times, people get either stuck on this side or that side of the water,” he said.
 
 Harnek said he did not clearly remember the date the village got road connectivity, but it was sometime in 2009. “That also happened after land around our village was sold to a few influential people,” he said. He, however, refused to give names.
 
 People living in the village mostly do odd jobs in surrounding villages and  . “We cannot grow crops on this land, as it is mostly dry and needs to be levelled,” he said. “So, those with motorcycles, drive to their destinations. Otherwise, we walk,” he said. “No bus comes to our village.”
 
 A source in the BSNL said it took the teleco six months to get permission from the forest department to dig land up for laying the fibre cable.
 
 “We have covered 134 of the 137 gram panchayats in SAS Nagar under Digital India. Masol is among the remaining three,” said a BSNL engineer, who did not wish to be named as he is not authorised to speak to media.
 
 
 
