NAGPUR: Young city masters  ,   and   earned the respect of their opponents in the Aeroflot open   tournament in Moscow, Russia, recently.

 
 Being one of the strongest chess tournaments in the world, the Aeroflot Open attracted a participation of 310 players from across the globe including 76 Grand Masters. According to their rating points, the tourney was divided in three sections and all the three city players took part in the Open B category that saw 126 masters vying for the honours.
 
 While 18-year-old Dravid did well to earn as many as 35 international rating points, prodigies Divya and Raunak learned many tricks from the world’s best chess competitors in the nine-round event. With an Elo rating of 2246, Dravid was given a starting rank of 102 and after winning four rounds, as many defeats and a draw city's Fide Master earned 4.5 points to finish at the 66th position. 
 
 “It was a decent tournament for me as I scored 4.5 points from nine rounds and earned 35 Elo points. I could have done better but learned a few new tricks in Moscow which will surely be handy for me in my future tournaments,” Dravid told TOI.
 
 On his way to a decent finish, Dravid defeated four higher rated opponents including countrymates Rahul Srivatshav, IM Abhishek Kelkar and surprised Russian FM David Zakaryan and WIM Dinara Dordzhieva. He held 33rd seed Chinese FM Yi Zhu in the seventh round.
 
 Dravid is now preparing for yet another tough tournament to be played in the memory of Bobby Fischer in Iceland. Dravid is seeded 72nd in the Reykjavik Open where 150 players are taking part including 27 GMs.
 
 Both Divya and Raunak finished with three points. While Divya played safe and held four higher rated players to a draw including Russian IM Zemerov Vladimir and Indian WIM PV Nandhidhaa. In the final round, Divya surprised Spichkin Alexander of Russia and suffered four defeats.
 
 Raunak, however, gave a very positive start to his campaign in Moscow but was paired up with three Russian GMs which proved costly for the young city FM, who has already cleared two norms of becoming Maharashtra's youngest International Master. 
 
 Raunak made his presence felt in the initial stage itself when he held eighth seed Harutyunian Tigran of Armenia and fourth ranked   of Russia to a draw in the opening two rounds. Despite playing with the black pieces, Raunak scripted his first major upset with a win over Harsha Bharathakoti on the third table. Up against three experienced GMs in the following rounds, Raunak did well to learn few tricks but found them too tough to handle. He fought back with a fluent win in the seventh round but could garner three points from the meet.
 
