NAGPUR: Almost 10,000 CBSE students in city will be appearing for std X and XII   that begin on Monday.

 For Std X, this will be the first traditional board exam after a gap of seven years during which the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) pattern was in place.
 
 Unlike Maharashtra state board, CBSE does not provide district-wise enrolment numbers but according to sources about 8,000 students will appear for Std X in Nagpur, while 2,000 students will appear for Std XII.
 
 While CBSE exams officially start on Monday, it will only be Std XII students that will face the real test with the mandatory English paper. For Std X students, the major papers begin from Tuesday with Hindi. The current Std X batch finds itself in a precarious position because they had to adapt to the traditional board pattern quickly after it was announced last year.
 
 A principal said, “At least two years time should have been given for shift from CCE to board exams. In Std IX, this batch prepared and was assessed as per CCE and then suddenly they had to shift gears.”
 
 From studying entire syllabus, as compared to only half under CCE, to getting used to board exams playing a major role, was a big change. Fortunately, CBSE understood this predicament and decided make things a bit easier by scrapping rule of ‘separate passing marks’ for theory and practical exam.
 
 As reported by TOI last week, students need to score 33% aggregate in the theory-practical combo to be declared successful. The board however clarified that this was an ‘one-time measure’ because of the unique situation the current Std X batch finds themselves in. From next session, the separate passing rule will be applicable.
 
 Scribe in case of sudden illness, accident
 
 CBSE has clarified that in case of sudden accident or illness that renders a student unable to write the exam, a scribe will be allotted by the centre superintendent (CS). Regardless, the registered student will need to produce a medical certificate signed by a medical officer who is at the least holding rank of assistant surgeon.
 
 
