MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Friday rejected the plea of a first-year homeopathy student, who was allegedly barred from attending college because she wears a hijab (headscarf), to appear for repeater's exams starting June 6 due to poor attendance. 

 "Without lectures how do we allow you? You are (studying ) in medicine," said a bench of Justice Shahrukh   and Ajay Gadkari. Fakeha Badami (19) had moved the court after the   told her college that she did not meet the mandatory attendance criteria. Fakeha had enrolled in Sai Homeopathic Medical College in Bhiwandi for 2016-17. She approached court in November 2017 but by then college exams were over. In March, the college told the HC it would accommodate her in repeater lectures. The college was directed to approach MUHS for clarity on permissions for Fakeha and seek advice on rules.
 
 The college's advocate Sahil   said she did not have 75% attendance in an academic year. He said there was a repeater exam in the winter session but she would have to record requisite attendance by attending repeater classes.
 
 Urging the court to consider her plea, Fakeha's advocate Sariputta   said she was not allowed to attend lectures. "If I was allowed, I would have been eligible," he said. "You were not attending lectures," said Justice Kathawalla, pointing out that Fakeha should have approached the court earlier. Sarnath said Fakeha was corresponding with the ministry, who directed the management to resolve the matter. "I was not allowed to attend lectures," he added. This was when the HC questioned how it could allow her to take exams with such poor attendance. 
 
 To the court's query, Salvi replied that repeater classes would continue to be held up to November. The judges said the college in future must allow Fakeha to attend regular classes. "Once she clears the (repeater) exams, she'll be in the regular class. You won't take objection to hijab?'' asked Justice Kathawalla. Salvi replied, "We've already allowed her to wear it. It was never an issue."
 
 The judges recorded a statement of the chairman and principal that Fakeha "shall appear for the repeater exams in the winter session if she attends lectures as required University rules." They also noted that Fakeha "has also accepted the undertaking and has agreed that no reasoned order is required in the matter".
 
 
