JAIPUR: It was a double whammy for the state government in the   case on Friday. While the Supreme Court refused to give any relief to the state government on sand mining ban, the   too stayed the notification for eauction of 31 sand mining leases issued to tide over the shortage of sand (bajri) in the state.

 Postponing the matter to April 2, the apex court on Friday observed that “if the illegal sand mining is allowed to continue in its current pace, it will turn into a tunnel between India and China shortly”.
 
 The HC, meanwhile, ordered an interim stay on the March 15 notification for mining at various locations in Jhunjhunu, Jaipur, Dausa, Ajmer, Bhilwara and Chittorgarh, and gave a direction to initiate suo motu contempt proceedings against principal secretary (mining) and director (mines and geology).
 
 
 
 
 The HC order follows awrit petition filed by one   who challenged certain conditions in the e-auction. The notices are returnable within two weeks.
 
 The HC said that when the apex court ban on 82 large sand mines was pending from November 16 last year, the state government had issued the notification to auction 31 plots without obtaining permission from the court. This comes under the purview of contempt of court.
 
 The advocate general (AG) argued that the apex court order related only to 82 LOI (letter of intent) holders and that SC has not restrained the state government from auctioning mining quarries for ‘bajri’ through e-auction.
 
 Last year, on November 17, the Apex court had stayed all 82 large sand mine lease/quarry holders from mining sand and ‘bajri’ till the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) submitted a scientific replenishment study.
 
 The SC order followed a special leave petition (SLP) filed by the sand mine quarry lease holders against an adverse high court order of October 21, 2013. The apex court had then noted the following with concern: “We are horrified with what is happening in the state of Rajasthan with regard to ‘bajri’ and sand mining/ quarrying. For several months, if not years, without any environmental clearance and without any scientific replenishment study, unabated mining is going on by the 82 parties before us.” In a damning comment on the Centre and the state, the court further said, “It is quite obvious that the ministry of environment, forests and climate change is not concerned about the degradation of environment in Rajasthan and what is even worse is that the state of Rajasthan is totally unconcerned about it.”
 
