GAYA: The   syndicate in its meet held on Tuesday approved the proposal to establish a multimedia educational research centre to produce in house quality educational programmes for electronic media. Production of video and multimedia based programmes will be made at the centre. 

 Varsity officials said it will be the first of its kind in the states of   and Jharkhand. Trained man power and state-of-the-art equipment will be procured for establishment of the centre and contents based on UGC model curriculum will be produced. MU VC Prof Qamar Ahsan also confirmed the approval of the proposal.
 
  The syndicate also approved the draft MoU to be signed with the   which will be presented before Pataliputra University VC, Raj Bhavan and state education department officials.
 
 Though the draft has not been made public, sources say it is broadly based on a similar MoU between Magadh University and its first off shoot, Ara-based Veer Kuer Singh University (VKSU).
 
 Sources also say that the MU syndicate has committed itself to the transfer of Rs 5 crore to meet the immediate expenditures of the new university and also to conduct the examination for the students admitted prior to the establishment of Pataliputra University.
 
 Pataliputra University was notified on April 9 with retrospective effect from March 18, 2018. The MoU also commits MU to transfer two vehicles to the new university.
 
 The syndicate also approved the promotion of six teachers of three different departments (Urdu, Persian and philosophy) of MG College,  . While two teachers have been promoted to the rank of professor, four others have been promoted to the rank of associate professor. Earlier, the selection committee recommended the promotions from the post of associate professor to professor and assistant professor to associate professor.
 
 In another development, the Raj Bhavan modified its April 2 notification appointing Col (retd) Kamal Kishore Mishra as MU registrar. As Colonel Mishra did not join Col (redt) Pranav Kumar has been made the registrar.
 
 
