MYSURU: During his tour of   on Sunday, chief minister   was presented a garland of apples. Made with about 3,000 of the fruit, it weighed 750kgs and had to be lifted by a crane. It was unusual — since it was a political rally — but not rare.

 Garlands made of fruit — usually apples — were offered by devotees to the deities and were also conspicuous at weddings. Now, it has invaded the political arena so much so that traditionally garlands of flowers are now becoming passé. Leaders such as Siddaramaiah and former chief minister and JD(S) state chief, H D Kumaraswamy are increasingly being presented with garlands of fruit.
 
 The one presented to Siddaramaiah at Hootagalli on Sunday was at the behest of MUDA president D Dhruvakumar Abhimanigala Balaga. The 25-foot garland was also studded with 50kgs of flowers. Congress leaders claim the apples were purchased wholesale and the garland was made by flower garland makers at Devaraja Market. They say it cost about Rs 1 lakh.
 
 This is not the first time politicians from Mysuru region were presented with a garland made of apples. Last month, energy minister D K Shivakumar was also presented with a garland of apples when he visited Srirangapatna. The garland was presented by Sachidananda, the Congress aspirant from the constituency. It weighed around 350kgs. Shivakumar drew applause from the crowd when he pulled out an apple from the garland and bit into it.
 
 A few days later, JD(S) workers prepared an apple garland weighing 500 kgs to welcome Kumaraswamy during roadshow organised as part of Vikasa Parva in Maddur. Similarly, at Nagamangala, Kumaraswamy was offered another garland — this one made of 400kgs of apples — at Nagamangala.
 
 In campaigns past, party workers and supporters offered candidates and leaders ‘anaconda’ garlands — made of thousands of flowers especially roses. It cost thousands of rupees.
 
 Contractor K Gangadhar told TOI, “It is better to present garlands made of apples or other fruit than huge flowers garlands since leaders dump flower garlands within few seconds of wearing it. There is also usually a tussle between workers to step inside the flower garland for photographs with leaders. But the apples are later distributed to party workers or the public and the money spent on making it isn’t wasted.” 
 
 
