LUDHIANA: While the problem of encroachments near the   looms in front of the   (MC), a similar situation has cropped up with occupants living in the   illegally.

 The MC officials will conduct a survey of these flats on Thursday.
 
 In Giaspura, the MC had constructed as many as 2,176 flats. Out of these, around 1,727 had been allotted to people, while the rest had been lying vacant.
 
 The MC recently learned that some of these vacant flats have been occupied illegally. Now, to rehabilitate around 107 families living near Jagraon Bridge into these flats, the MC will have to vacate the occupants who are living in these flats illegally.
 
 On May 5, the MC had served notices to the encroachers near Jagraon Bridge, giving them 15 days’ time to vacate the houses. Meanwhile, the officials started the rehabilitation process during which they came to know that more than 150 flats in   had being occupied illegally.
 
 On Wednesday, the officials had sent a team to verify the situation. The illegal occupants have been given 24 hours to procure documents to prove they have been given the allotment letter by the MC. The officials will again visit them on Thursday.
 
 The executive engineer of MC building and road department   said they will prepare a report and submit it to the senior officials for further action. He said they will remove the illegal occupants from the flats with the help of police force.
 
 Notably, the officials had vacated around 250 dwelling units from encroachers in March 2016, while conducting a massive anti-encroachment drive. At that time, it had come to light that in the absence of vigil, the flats were being illegally occupied. The officials then had given two flats to the police department for establishing a police chowkey to avoid further encroachments. However, the menace continues.
 
 
 
 Later in the evening, MC officials held a meeting with the tenants staying illegally in the flats and asked them to vacate as soon as possible, failing which the MC will take use force against them.
 
 
