PATNA: Ornithologists are concerned over trapping of exquisite species by illegally putting up nets in Kabar Lake Bird Sanctuary at Begusarai and Baraila Bird Sanctuary in Vaishali, among others in Bihar.

 Incidentally, both the vast wetlands have been facing degradation for the past couple of decades owing to administrative ignorance coupled with execution of government schemes aimed at their redevelopment.
 
 State co-coordinator of Asian Waterbird Census, Wetland International and member of state wildlife board, Arvind Mishra, surveyed several wetlands, including Kabar and Baraila, in the state over the past two months. Mishra claimed to have found hundreds of fishing nets to catch birds, primarily migratory ones, at the two wetlands. “The poachers, mostly locals, primarily target migratory birds, including ducks, and several Indian bird species. They put fine fishing nets on 3 to 4 feet high bamboo poles in a semi-circular manner. They drive the birds from the opposite side in order to make them strangled in the nets,” Mishra told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Sources said around 150 bird species can be found at Kabar and over 80 at Baraila sanctuary. Mishra said majority of the bird species targeted by the poachers at the two locations include Ferruginous ducks, Wader, Rail and Anatidae among others. “Many of the birds caught by poachers are supplied to hotels, roadside dhabas and influential people who eat them,” Mishra said.
 
 Kabar Lake was declared a protected zone in 1986 under section 37 of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and subsequently as a bird sanctuary in 1989 under the same Act. Hundreds of species of migratory birds from Siberia, China, Tibet, Ladakh and European countries used to come to this wetland of river Burhi Gandak for breeding and nesting between September and March till late 1990s.
 
 However, the population of birds here decreased over the past couple of decades owing to rapid degradation of the wetland. A study conducted by a research group of department of environment and water management, A N College Patna, in 2012 stated that Kabar Lake sanctuary has been reduced to mere 30% of its original coverage area as recorded in 1984. An area of 6,300 hectares was originally notified as protected bird sanctuary at Kabar.
 
 Baraila, on the other hand, is spread over an area of 1625 hectares, out of which 197.91 hectares was declared as protected bird sanctuary by state government in 1997.
 
 Forest department officials said they burn the fishing nets to prevent bird poaching. “We burned the nets at Kabar Lake in February,” said Sudhir Kumar, divisional forest officer at Begusarai.
 
 Mishra, however, differed with Sudhir and claimed that such exercise is not carried out regularly. 
 
 Sudhir said proposals have also been mooted to reduce the notified bird sanctuary area at Kabar from 6,300 hectares to around 3,000 hectares and declare the remaining area as eco-sensitive zone.
 
 
