Madurai: In a goof-up which took place in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), the body of a burn injury victim was handed over to the relatives of a woman killed in a road accident. While the truth unravelled in the nick of the time, the body was brought back from the burial ground to receive the right one. 

 Police said Annalakshmi, 55, from Puthuthamiraipatti was hit by a two-wheeler when she tried to cross a road on Sunday. The victim, who worked as maid, succumbed to her injuries at the GRH. The body was shifted to the mortuary and an autopsy was conducted on Monday. 
 
 Police said the woman’s relatives who came to receive the body, found something wrong as it did not resemble her. However, they had to receive the body as mortuary employees, who were apparently drunk, yelled at them. 
 
 When the final rites were halfway at the burial ground, they received a phone from a policeman from the mortuary informing them that it was actually the body of R Karpagam from Chatrapatti. They rushed back to the hospital with the body and received the right one. 
 
 Raja, one among those who attended Annalakshmi’s funeral, said that they had doubts right from the beginning but the workers scolded them when they raised it. They simply told the relatives that it was the Annalakshmi’s body and urged them to take it right away.
 
 Raja who had engaged Annalakshmi as house maid also said that the mortuary workers’ only intention was to milk money from the bereaved family members. While they have already paid the bribe of Rs 1,500, they were asked to shell out Rs 400 more, which was not given.
 
 When contacted, dean of GRH and   Medical College Dr D Maruthupandian said that they were yet to ascertain whether the mistake was on the mortuary employees or on the police personnel. He said that there was no fault of doctors, as the bodies would be handed over to the police soon after the autopsy.
 
 Commenting on the bribery charges, he said that although there have been many such complaints, he could not catch the workers red handed. He said severe action would be taken if there is a complaint with evidence.
 
 
