BHOPAL: The much flaunted BRTS bus stops have become a favourite place for squatters in the city. Like much of the pedestrian space in the state capital, bus stops too are under siege. Going by BMC estimates, nearly 30% bus stops made exclusively for   (BCLL) which are the ‘lifeline’ to its services, are presently occupied by illegal street vendors.

 It seems the BCCL, which invested crores to set up automatic boom barrier and monitored ticketing at the bus stops, has lost interest in these investments and has hardly taken any worthwhile step to evict the encroachers who are having a field day. Many times BCLL, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the   (BMC), has said that BMC ward officials even charge ‘tehbazaari’ these vendors, instead of evicting them.
 
 The city’s largest tertiary care hospital has four bus stops outside its campus. Openly flouting norms, street vendors have removed the cover of the bus stops, in order to sell their products in full public view.
 
 The encroached area has more than 10 vendors who have set up stalls to selling clothing items, which fetch them good money, especially in the evening. “We are aware of the situation. From time to time action against these vendors is initiated. Since the matter has once again been bought to my notice, action would be taken,” said BMC corporator and BCLL director Keval Mishra.
 
 Highlighting the problem, a senior consultant at Gandhi Medical College said, “The situation has gone out of control. Even reaching the hospital has become a major challenge for ambulances. No one seems to bother about encroachments”.
 
 The situation is alomost the same at AIIMS Bhopal. Last year, encroachments were removed from outside the campus entry gates. However, within hours after the anti-encroachment drive, the encroachments made a grand comeback.
 
 “There are more encroachments now than three months ago. We have repeatedly requested the BMC to take corrective measures, but in vain,” said a consultant.
 
  route is 24-km long with about 85 bus stops that connect the various parts of city to sub-urban ‘Misrod’ area on   to ‘Bairagarh’ area at other end.
 
