In the summertime… the lyrics of this 1970 Mungo Jerry hit often cross our minds. But frankly speaking, the sweltering humid weather of Kolkata makes it pretty difficult to feel the happiness intrinsic to the song. Now, we at CT believe that even the sultriest of days can have a happy streak. So we brought together three hot and young models-turned-actresses of Tollywood and a cool, shimmery  . The result was magical! In fact, our three hot mermaids —  ,   and   — were really enthusiastic about the shoot. After all, modelling has always been their first love — experience that helped them in their screen outings. “Having appeared in umpteen ads and TVCs as a model, I had absolutely no problem switching to acting,” Darshana told us. And this also holds true for Tolly actresses like Rukmini Maitra, Tanushree Chakraborty, Tridha Choudhury and Koushani Mukherjee. So here’s our ode to the sizzling combination of fitness and 
talent. Enjoy…
 
 
 
 
 : 34-26-35
 
 : There was no looking back for this beauty after she won a beauty pageant organised by a reputed jewellery brand. Since then she appeared in several TVCs and ad campaigns before making her film debut in Kamaleswar Mukherjee’s Mukhomukhi. Today, she has several movies under her belt.
 
 
 : I don’t work out in gyms; I just believe in doing yoga and meditation, as that helps strengthen the mind along with the body. My aim is to look healthy, not thin. I have a normal diet at home and eat out just twice a month. Most tend to gain weight because they eat out frequently. Even when going to parties, I eat at home and then leave. One thing I need to keep in check is my love for pastries.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  My family members wanted me to get into acting and modelling from a very young age, but I was never interested. Then a reputed jewellery brand organised a beauty contest and I won the title. From 2014-15, I was part of several TVCs and ad campaigns and then I thought of trying my luck in acting. I debuted in Kamaleswar Mukherjee’s Mukhomukhi and since then there’s been no looking back. I’ve been part of films like Jojo, Asche Abar Shabor, Network, Ami Asbho Phirey, Aatagallu (Tamil), Laboratory and Six. I’m quite enjoying my life as an actor and want to do more meaningful films. Working in Mumbai is on my wishlist too. 
 Wardrobe must haves: I like dresses, be it a maxi dress or a short dress. I also love well-fitted denims and bright colours keep my spirits high. I don’t like heels and prefer colourful flats and sneakers. I believe one looks fashionable if that person is comfortable in the outfit. 
 Makeup and beauty tips: I only wear lip balm and kajal when I go out. Cleansing, toning and moisturising are the three things I do regularly. Removing makeup is also a basic essential. I never go out of my house without applying sunscreen. At night, I use a night cream and apply almond oil around my eyes. Too much of blow drying has made my hair rough, so I apply hot hair oil twice a week, wash with a mild shampoo and condition 
 it properly. 
 
 
 : I don’t have friends in the industry, though I share good working relationships with almost everyone.
 
 
 : I’m single. There’s actually no time to date anyone; I’m shooting almost every day (laughs)!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 : 36-24-36
 
 
 : She has been modelling since childhood and got noticed by Anik Dutta in a jewellery ad campaign she had done with Deepika Padukone. She went on to be a part of his Meghnad Badh Rahasya and followed it up with Pratim D Gupta’s Macher Jhol and more
 
 
 : I’m not a gym person at all, nor do I diet. I eat everything, but in small portions. I just do some freehand exercises at home, that’s it.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : I was into modelling from my childhood and took part in Hau Mau Khau. Though I didn’t win it, the production house later cast me in a lot of ad campaigns. I’ve been modelling for almost all magazines, newspapers etc since I was in Class IX. My parents were very supportive, but told me not to go overboard with it and let it affect my studies. My thakuma didn’t approve at first, but later, when my parents explained things to her, she was cool about it. I made my film debut with Prashant Nair’s Chittagong and then worked in his film, Umrika. That’s when I got interested in acting. Then a jewellery ad campaign happened with Deepika Padukone and Anik Dutta noticed me. He cast me in Meghnad Badh Rahasya and then Pratim D Gupta saw me in a national ad and I bagged Macher Jhol. Next was Anjan Dutt’s Ami Ashbo Phirey and even more recently, Finally Bhalobasha. Now I want to play characters with substance in more films. 
 Wardrobe must haves: A white linen shirt and well-fitted shorts are musts. I have shorts in different colours and prints. I also love watches, shades and sneakers and I really don’t know how many I own. 
 
 
 : Basic cleansing, toning and moisturising are what I follow regularly. I also apply warm coconut oil and shampoo my hair with reetha water. I don’t know how to do makeup and have no foundation or blusher at home. I just wear dark lipsticks and sunscreen when I step out. 
 
 
 : I only have good colleagues in the industry. Friend is a strong word; I just have school friends who I can call at 2 am.
 
 
 : I’m happily single!
 
 
 
 
 : 32-26-34
 
 
 : She shot into limelight after participating in the Calcutta Times Fresh Face 2012 and went on to work as a model for several top designers. She recently made her film debut in Arindam Sil’s Asche Abar Shabor and is keen on working in more films
 
 
 : I’m in love with my body now. I’m no longer skinny like I used to be and now I love my toned look. I was a hardcore gym freak, but stick to yoga now. But eating healthy is not my forte as I’m a big foodie. The fact that I’m a small eater blessed with good metabolism works to my advantage.
 
 
 : I was always into academics and modelling/acting was never on my mind. My dida was also against modelling 
 though she praises me the most when I wear a short dress now. The mindset is changing. As many tall girls do, I started out 
 walking the ramp in college fests, but my life changed after I took part in Calcutta Times Fresh Face 2012. Though I didn’t win, 
 I was flooded with modelling assignments after the contest. From walking the ramp for top designers to doing their folio shoots, press shoots, designer shoots one after the other, life took a 360-degree turn and I fell in love with my profession. Last December, I was about to leave for Mumbai to try my luck in 
 modelling when Arindamda (Sil) offered me a meaty role in Asche Abar Shabor. I had been offered a lot of films before but I didn’t find a single worth working in. But somehow, I connected well with Arindamda and couldn’t say no. And now, I want to do more films, but need a lot of grooming as an actor. Modelling will 
 always be my first love, but acting is something I want to pursue diligently. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 : A white shirt, well-fitted denim shorts, branded denims, skater dresses and a little black dress. I like pastel shades such as peach, lemon yellow, aquamarine etc, and have a fetish for shoes. I don’t like any kind of jewellery, watches or bags but I don’t have a count of how many pairs of shoes I have! 
 Makeup and beauty tips: When I am not shooting, I only wear lipstick and that too, in natural colours, along with mascara. I’m not a makeup person at all. I believe the skin should breathe as much as possible to glow. I only do hair spa once in a while and my beauty tip is to splash water or rose water as many times as possible, as that keeps the skin hydrated and glowing. Feel beautiful from within and it will show on your skin and hair. 
 
 
 : I do have friends in Mumbai who I met while modelling. Here, Abhisek (Roy) is my best friend.
 
 
 : I was into a serious relationship at an early stage of my career and somehow, it didn’t work out. Now, it is only work for me, as I have become selfish. So, Diti is very much single.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
