MYSURU: Although residents of the city are yet to tuck their sweaters and blankets safely inside cupboards – to be taken out with the onset of next winter – it appears as though Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) wants to leave nothing to chance, and has started preparations to ensure citizens do not go thirsty in the   this year. The civic agency is setting up as many as 20   (RO) drinking water plants at various locations in the city.

 Each   is expected to cost Rs 6.5 lakh, and will be installed at Nazarvad, Gangotri Layout, Hebbal, Manjunathapura, Paduvarahalli, BB Keri among other localities. Sources pointed out that MCC was installing RO plants in those areas that had a history of scarcity of drinking water.
 
 Mayor MJ Ravikumar confirmed to The Times of India that MCC had floated tenders for new RO plants. “Our aim is to ensure that no ward in the city faces the problem of   this summer. Currently, MCC operates 25 RO units across the city. The additional 20 units will come up in areas that often grapple with water scarcity in the summer months,” Ravikumar said, adding that the new plants would be operational before the onset of summer. 
 
 Sources in the MCC said that they would need about 15 days to set up an RO plant. “These RO plants have been proposed on MCC sites. So, there will be no delay in identifying locations for the RO plants. Once the tender process is finalised, work on the plants will begin,” an MCC officer said.
 
 He pointed out that the 25 RO units that were already operating in the city had helped bring down dependence on private water suppliers drastically. “Compared to private mineral water suppliers, the RO units offer potable water at an affordable price,” the officer added.
 
 Meanwhile, residents want MCC to ensure the RO units are installed at the earliest. Usman Khader, a Nazarbad resident, pointed out that localities on the outskirts of the city faced acute water shortage in the summer. “This only leads to private water supplying companies exploiting the residents. The proposed RO plants must ensure water supply for at least 12 hours a day. Some of the existing plants operate for just a few hours a day at a time. MCC must look into this,” he added.
 
 
