NAGPUR: History beckons Nagpur University (NU) when it will award 20 medals, including 13 golds, to partially blind Rahul Bajaj, a former student of Dr   in  , during its 105th convocation on March 24.

 But this is just one of the many feathers in the cap of Rahul, who won many accolades braving all odds.
 
 Foremost among them is being selected for the prestigious Rhodes Scholarships offered by the  . He is the first specially abled person from India to win the scholarship. He is also the first in NU’s history to win the honour after undergoing rigorous interview sessions.
 
 Only five students from India and 100 from the world are selected for this scholarship. The selection is based on many parameters including academic performance, extra-curricular activities, leadership qualities, abilities to help others and working for marginalized sections of the society.
 
 “I came to know about winning 20 medals after NU uploaded its list on the website. It was mentioned that I will receive 13 golds, four silvers and three prizes. I will come to receiving the awards on March 22,” an elated Rahul told TOI from Delhi, where he is training with a law firm.
 
 TOI had interviewed him on May 26, 2012, when he topped Std XII commerce exam with 95% marks. Before that, he topped SSC exams in the state by scoring 97% marks.
 
 Interestingly, he is the only one from a “not-so-well-known” college at the national level to be selected for Rhodes Scholarship, where he needn’t pay a penny for the one-year course.
 
 “Only students from National Law Universities or other global level institutions are selected, primarily from Delhi and Mumbai. It was perhaps difficult for the selection panel to keep faith in me, being from a tier-II city,” he said.
 
 Rahul’s admission to Oxford was confirmed last Wednesday, where he would be pursuing Bachelor of Civil Law, which is equivalent to LLM. Son of paediatrician Sunil and homemaker Kajol from  , he plans to complete MPhil in ‘Constitution Law’ and start practice in the   under a leading lawyer or law firm.
 
 Rahul, who stays with his mother in a rented flat in Delhi, suffers from a rare retinal disorder from birth, which restricted his vision to just 5%. But that did not deter him from scaling success.
 
 “Of course, it’s challenging, but if you’re willing to work hard with perseverance, you develop problem-solving skills. I use a special speaking software, which helped me in reading books. In India, odds are heavily stacked against those suffering from a disability. But frankly, I don’t want to highlight it in my achievements,” he said.
 
 
