CHANDIGARH: With challans failing to act as a deterrent against ferrying of school children in an unauthorized manner by auto-rickshaws and maxi cabs,   (STA) is now mulling over other ways to ensure safe rides for school-going children as a part of which   is in the process to issue an advisory to auto-rickshaws and maxi cabs as well. 

 As per the data available in this year alone, STA has issued challans to 138 auto-rickshaws for ferrying school children over their seating capacity and 58 maxi cabs for running without permit. STA has even started a drive wherein on a daily basis four to five auto-rickshaws and maxi cabs are being impounded.
 
 STA is planning to popularize maxi cabs by ensuring they run legally by taking permit so that parents switch to maxi cabs from overloaded auto-rickshaws as the former are a safer option. For this, STA is planning to ask   to involve their transport wings, looking after schools buses, to intervene and ensure all maxi cabs bringing school children are authorized, have proper colour scheme and are not overloaded.
 
 Rajiv Tewari, additional secretary, STA said, "Issuing challans doesn't have much impact on these violators. The only remedy available keeping in view the school children's safety is to impound such vehicles. If school children are being transported in maxi cabs, then the schools at least should involve their transport wing to regulate the use of such cabs in an appropriate manner. We will send an advisory in this regard to schools."
 
 In a recent notice, STA has also asked the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights to intervene.
 
 According to Safe Transport Policy for students (STRAPS) "no overloading of school children is allowed in auto/cabs/bus." For auto-rickshaws, STRAPS state that auto-rickshaws having contract carriage permit issued by the STA are allowed to carry five school children, if the age of the child is below 12 years. Both the sides of the auto-rickshaw must be fitted with horizontal grills/bars/gates for the safety of children.
 
 "Maxi cabs authorized and passed by STA as school vans are authorized to carry school children as per their seating capacity. They should have proper colour scheme for their cabs," it reads.
 
 As per the reality check conducted by TOI in the past one week, every auto-rickshaw outside different schools were found ferrying students beyond their seating capacity. No safety measures were taken into consideration. All maxi cabs were also found to be ferrying children over their seating capacity. None of them followed the colour scheme. No maxi cab had the permit from STA to ferry school children. STA has issued a total of 58 challans from Januaru 1 to May 15 to maxi cabs for overcapacity and ferrying children without having permit.
 
 
