JAIPUR:   Hospital’s emergency unit is undergoing facelift. It has signed an MoU with a private company for enhancing facilities in its radio diagnosis in its emergency unit. As of now, trauma cases such as road accident victims have to face difficulties in getting X-rays and other radiology tests. But from now the facility will be made available at the emergency unit.

 Health minister   on Tuesday said that they have roped in a private company for emergency unit which will release X-ray report immediately for accident cases. Government-run   will soon get more beds as the state government is planning to increase the number of beds to 500. Besides, an eight-storey building is also proposed to come up at the Jaipuria Hospital for introducing more facilities for the patients. 
 
 Moreover, officials said that construction of a 200-bedded maternal and child health (MCH) wing is in the progress along with four new labour rooms. The MCH wing will likely to be inaugurated soon. 
 
 Besides, swine flu testing facility will also be introduced in the hospital soon. The cost of the laboratory will be approximately Rs 2 crore.   will provide Rs1 crore for the laboratory, while Rs 1 crore will be provided from Members of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD), which will be provided by Jaipur MP Ramcharan Bohra.
 
 Over the past few months, a lot many facilities have already been introduced in the hospital. Now, the hospital has super speciality facilities such as cardiology, neurology, neurosurgery, plastic surgery, radiation oncology, gastroenterology and endocrinology. Also, it has developed facilities of CT scan and MRI in the hospital with the help of a private player. 
 
 Also, Jaipuria has already become the first hospital in the state in government sector having 1,000 LED lights to save power. According to estimation, electricity worth Rs 8 lakh will be saved from the LED lights. The hospital has also introduced ultrasonic therapy machine, tense machine, shortwave diathermy machine, interferential therapy machine, paraffin wax path machine and muscle stimulator machine in physiotherapy unit.
 
 
