KOCHI: For  , an internationally renowned dancer and choreographer, dance is a movement in a moment when one’s body, mind, spirit and whole sense of being come alive in its fullest providing a platform to experience something special out of the ordinary.

 
 At present,   is in the process of creating a new vocabulary in the realm of dance through his organization the   Centre for Movement Arts, by combining traditional Indian dance forms with contemporary dance moves borrowed from ballet, African dance forms and Capoeira (a Brazilian martial art form, combining self-defence, acrobatics, dance, music and song).
 
 “Dance must discover you rather than you discover dance. When I was a child, I used to stand in front of the mirror and imitate the dance moves I had seen in temples during festivals. I had an inner urge in me to move and to create shapes with one’s body, even as a child. It was as if these shapes and moves of the body somehow awakened my soul and gave me a feeling of being in touch with something out of the ordinary. Dance gives you a sense of coming fully alive by being in touch with your body, mind and spirit simultaneously,” said Jayachandran, the artistic director of Attakkalari Centre for Movement Arts.
 
 “I founded Attakkalari way back in 1992 in Aluva. Attakkalari focuses on the importance of dance and arts education and builds social avenues to cultivate creativity and an inclusive society. It has made huge contributions in developing the performing arts scene in India, specifically in the realm of dance pedagogy, choreography and stage technologies. Our priority is to demystify the art form and ensure that it is not restricted to the elite sections of the society,” said Jayachandran. Born in Thrissur, Jayachandran studied at the London Contemporary   and later established the Imlata Dance Company with his friends in London.
 
 Jayachandran believes dance can act as a medium to break all barriers. “Dance is such a leveller, especially contemporary dance, which values and celebrates the uniqueness of each individual and their movements and expressions irrespective of the backgrounds they come from. It does not valorise an ideal body or virtuosity, instead focuses on empowering a dancer using his own body to process his memory, experience and imagination for creation. For a dancer, dance often begins in his imagination and the body ‘grows’ in it, he said.
 
 Though Attakkalari was initially based in Aluva, Jayachandran chose Bangalore to be its headquarters. However, the institution continues to have a strong connection with Kerala. “Many of our artists are from Kerala and Kalarippayattu is an integral part of our training system. There were many suggestions for setting up a centre in Kerala. The state government had also made some suggestions but nothing has materialized so far,” he said “Attakkalari will launch an Incubation Centre for the Arts and Media soon to encourage interdisciplinary arts projects, where dancers will get an opportunity to collaborate with experts and entrepreneurs from other disciplines to create original works,” he added.
 
