Coimbatore: Making use of technology, social media and an elaborate network of agents, gangs operating illegal mobile phone-based lottery businesses are flourishing in the western districts. The modus operandi of the criminals was revealed when the city police busted a gang four days ago and seized Rs 8.5lakh, a laptop and a car from the gang members. The contents of the laptop revealed that the gang had conducted Rs 18.5crore-worth transactions in the last one year.

 Podanur police inspector JK Gobi and team had arrested N Karthikeyan of Vellalore for running a three-number lottery business. During interrogation, he confessed that he was running the business with the help of his relatives Kanagaraj and Rangaraj from Sundakkamuthur and earned crores of rupees. “The trio had formed a network consisting of agents, sub-agents and local agents, who visit various places to collect money from lottery buyers. We checked his laptop and came to know that the gang had conducted transactions worth Rs 18.5 crore in the last one year. Everything was unaccounted,” Gobi told TOI.
 
 According to police sources, the illegal operators depend on the lottery business conducted by the Kerala government. “In Kerala, lottery result is announced every day at 3pm and it is uploaded on the government website. Lottery tickets there have six digits. The three-number lottery gangs announce the winners based on the last three digits of the jackpot Kerala ticket of the day,” the officer said.
 
 A fortune seeker is allowed to buy only 10 tickets a day. A ticket costs Rs 60. “Suppose a buyer bets on number 245. He sends an SMS containing the three digits to the mobile number or to the WhatsApp number the gangs have set up. The local sub-agent will soon come to his place to collect the ticket amount. If the first prize winning number of the Kerala lottery ticket for the day ends with 245, the buyer will get the first prize of Rs 25,000. The sub-agent or local agent distributes the prize on the same day itself. The second prize money is Rs 1,000 if you have number 45 and Rs 100 if you have number 5. So, if someone has bought 10 tickets with the number 245, then he will get Rs 2.5 lakh,” Gobi explained.
 
 Three-number lotteries are getting popular in Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and Salem, the officer said. “We request the people not to invest money in such lotteries as they are illegal. Those who have lost money should file complaint against such gangs,” he said.
 
 Police are planing to attach the house owned by Karthikeyan. “We have formed a special team to nab one more absconding person,” Gobi added.
 
 The Tamil Nadu government had banned lottery sales in January 2003. The ban covers sale of all lotteries, including online. The state police are taking action against those involved in the business under the lotteries (regulation) act, 1998.
 
 
