GHAZIABAD: A 41-year-old IT professional, a resident of Sun Tower, Shipra Sun City, Indirapuram, on Saturday got the shock of his life when he received a piece of stone in place of a smartphone which he had ordered through e-retail portal   two days back. The man subsequently lodged a complaint with the police, even as he approached a consumer forum with the issue.

 Subhajit Sarkar, a technology specialist with NIIT technologies in Greater Noida, had ordered the   worth Rs 19,990 on March 15 as a surprise gift for his wife Anindita. However, when the delivery boy landed at his doorstep on Saturday morning, his hopes of seeing the astonished face of his wife after receiving the gift were dashed. 
 
 Sensing something amiss while receiving the package, Sarkar asked the delivery boy to open the box just as he started to film the entire proceeding on his phone.
 
 “The packet was not properly sealed. The outside brown box was wrapped in a black tape, which did not look authentic at all. The plastic wrapper of the mobile phone was also missing. There was a stone in the upper shelf of the mobile phone box, while mobile charger and earphone were present in the lower compartment,” Sarkar said.
 
 He immediately called up the Amazon help desk, which connected him to its legal cell. The management of the online company has assured me to redress the issue in the next three to five days, said Sarkar.
 
 Later he went to Indirapuram police station and filed a complaint. Senior sub-inspector Pawan Kumar said he has received a complaint in this regard. The complaint will be forwarded to the cyber cell, if there is any such need, he added.
 
 Contacted on Twitter, Amazon India said it would look into the matter and assist the customer.
 
 "As a customer-obsessed company, we take care in the safety of our packages and treat incidents of malpractice very seriously. We have begun our investigation on this customer complaint and will work directly with the customer to make things right," added the Amazon spokesperson. 
 
