MUMBAI: In a setback to the CBI, a special court on Saturday granted bail to seven people, including senior customs officers, in an alleged Rs 50 lakh   case. Special   judge P K Sharma ordered the release of the accused on a personal bond of Rs 25,000 each and a cash security of the same amount. 

 The judge perused the case diary and the application and observed that the allegations were of illegal gratification. "Considering the nature of the case, the investigation is substantially complete. It appears that the CBI is seeking to make a mountain out of a molehill," the judge said while referring to the CBI's case that they needed further custodial interrogation of the accused. 
 
 The judge said that the trial is expected to take time as the CBI will have to make a request to obtain sanction for the prosecution of the accused, most of whom are public servants. The offences alleged are not such that it would invite the death penalty or life imprisonment. "The accused need not be detained," said the judge, while ordering their release.
 
 The accused including four deputy commissioner of customs-Mukesh Meena (43), Sudarshan Meena (32), Rajiv Singh (34) and Sandeep Yadav (34)-besides customs superintendent Manish Kumar Singh (29), customs officer Akshat Rathod and a private citizen Nilesh Singh (30) had been arrested earlier this week. The allegations were that the officers had, in conspiracy with private persons, demanded a bribe of Rs 50 lakh from a businessman, Amjad Bakali, to clear his consignment illegally kept on hold and to ensure clearance of other consignments in the pipeline.
 
 Advocate Sujay Kantawala, counsel for two of the accused, said that the officers had been implicated in a false and fabricated case. "All material evidence is already with the CBI as they have seized documents, mobile phones and laptops of the officers. Their custodial interrogation is not necessary. The officers have been suspended so the claim that they will tamper with evidence does not exist," said advocate Kantawala.
 
 The CBI did not file a written reply to the bail pleas except in Yadav's case. Earlier in the day, the request for an adjournment-it had filed an appeal to challenge refusal of custody-was rejected by the judge. The special court said that it was proceeding without the reply. 
 
 Advocate T V Ramana, CBI's deputy legal advisor, sought time from the court. "The case relates to a deeper conspiracy and may involve high-ranking officials. The accused have not cooperated with investigations while they were in CBI custody. We want to investigate further and materials have to be collected. Further custodial interrogation is in the interest of society, of the nation," said advocate Ramana. 
 
 
