NEW DELHI: In a loud and colourful affair, thousands of Delhiites sporting track pants and jogging shoes took part in the Max Bupa   for  , organised in association with  .

 The sixth edition of the walk was flagged off at Dhyan Chand National Stadium by actors Ayushmann Khurrana,   and   and saw participation from almost 10,000 walkers — from all age groups and facets of life. There was a sizeable presence of families at the event, which was categorised into three sections: a 7km power walk, a 5km walk and a 2km track for senior citizens and children. 
 
 There were also power-packed Zumba sessions for warm-up. Celebrities shared their fitness tips with the participants. Khurrana said: “I exercise daily to feel good and stay active. Walking is a great boon as gyms are not available at all places. Walking is more than just burning calories. I’ve never sung for an audience at 7am. Only Delhi can do this.”
 
 Power walk was introduced as a competitive category for the first time and was flagged off by “Woman Power Walk Ambassador” Malaika Arora. “It’s important to give your body some amount of time, no matter how busy your life gets. It could be something as simple as walking daily for 30 minutes. And once you’ve got into the groove, even upgrade to something like power walk, which is intense and requires a lot of stamina and energy, but yields great results,” Arora said.
 
 
  
 Power walking is an act of walking with a speed at the upper end of the natural gait, typically 7-9km/hr. To qualify as power walking — as opposed to jogging or running — at least one foot must be in contact with the ground at all times. 
 
 While many professional walkers turned up for the event, for most participants, it was an opportunity to hang out with family and friends at India Gate. Sumit Arora, a software engineer from Faridabad, was accompanied by his wife and daughter, Aadya, who studies in kindergarten. “This is the first time we are participating in the event. We walk regularly; it is a good way to spend more time with the family,” Arora said. 
 
 There were others who had come to promote a cause. Carrying placards, such as “Real Men Don’t Rape” and “My Little Dress Doesn’t Mean Yes,” some 50 volunteers walked for women safety. Sumita Arora, COO of Adaan Group, said they were using the platform to highlight the dangers women continued to face in the form of sexual violence.
 
 Fun competitions, such as the most number of sit-ups one could do in the shortest period of time, drew a lot of cheer. After the completion of their walks, many danced to Bollywood numbers at the stadium. 
 
 Ashish Mehrotra, MD & CEO of Max Bupa, said the organisation was committed to educating people to walk for their own health as well as for the environment. Mehrotra launched a especially engineered power walk machine, which generates power through human steps, and a Go Active app, that monitors health statistics, number of steps taken and the overall health score. “The app will help your insurance rating. We are moving from the illness concept to preventive health and wellness,” Mehrotra said.
 
 Walking is a form of exercise that can find you friends, help in networking or even build relationships, besides keeping the body fit. As 82-year old Mala Gupta said: “I continue to walk even after knee replacement surgeries. There is no other form of exercise that can beat the effectiveness of walking,” Gupta said.
 
 
