KOLKATA: Air pollution levels shot off the charts in Kolkata early on Tuesday, earning for the city the unenviable distinction of having the most foul air in the world. 

 According to the US Embassy & Consulate that monitors particulate matter emission around the globe, Kolkata’s PM 2.5 count shot up to 565 at 5am on Tuesday, which was 9 times more than the permissible limit of 60 and higher than any other city in the world at the time and more than double the highest count clocked by Delhi on the same day. While environmentalists called the sudden pollution surge — which made the city’s AQI far worse on Tuesday than on Diwali — ‘mystifying’, they pointed out that a combination of construction fumes, vehicular emission and environmental factors could be responsible for the frightening swell in the PM 2.5 count.
 
 
  
  
 
 In the first 15 days of the year, Kolkata’s PM 2.5 count had crossed the 300-mark on 12 days. But on Tuesday, it smashed all recent records by shooting past the 550-mark, which is probably unprecedented during the non-Diwali period. This is not only shocking but mystifying as well, according to environmental scientist S M Ghosh. “Kolkata has no major polluting industry, nor is it witnessing a huge boom in construction activities. The East-West Metro project is the only major construction work in progress. It could indeed emit particulate matter in the   area where the   station is located. But this could be a contributing factor, not the only reason,” said Ghosh.
 
 According to Ghosh, multiple factors were responsible for the surge. “While Metro work has been going on through the day and evening peak hours, vehicles plying through the city spew a huge vol-ume of PM 2.5,” he said.
 
 Ghosh further said, “In winter, these particulate matter can’t disperse easily due to the chill and the fog which traps them. As night progresses, it worsens with trucks carrying construction material plying through the city. Also, open fires lit for warmth adds to the pollution count,” he said. 
 
 Ill-maintained vehicles were a major reason behind the particulate matter gush, felt environmental researcher Sudipta Bhattacharya. “A vast majority of vehicles plying in Kolkata don’t conform to any pollution norm. Most of these are commercial vehicles that ply through the night and early in the morning, spewing SPM into the air. This is also the time of the day when temperature is at its lowest, which helps in keeping the particles trapped at the lower levels. This will get worse with the rise in the number of vehicles plying through Kolkata,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 Sweeping of roads by civic workers and the practice of burning garbage early in the morning have not been helping either, pointed out experts. “These are age-old practices that need to be altered taking pollution into account. But sadly, nothing is ever done,” said a green activist.
 
 On Tuesday, SPM count remained above 500 between 1 am and 6 am, with a highest reading of 565 at 5 am. It started sliding gradually from 7 am, but didn’t plunge below 400 till 12 noon. At 11 am, it read 429.
 
 While an SPM count of 301-500 is classified as hazardous by the US Consulate website, it says nothing about a higher count. It could be fatal in the long run, according to oncologist  . “Apart from respiratory distress and asthma, continued exposure to this kind of emission could lead to head and neck cancer,” said Ganguly.
 
 
