KOCHI: A detailed probe by the Factories and Boilers (F&B) department into the blast at the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), where five people lost their lives has exposed shocking irregularities, procedural errors and safety violations.

 According to the F&B findings, the workers at CSL followed an unsafe procedure at the end of every work day while dealing with a flammable gas like acetylene: ‘bending the end of the rubber hose that supplies the gas backwards and then tying it with a rope’.
 
  
  
 
 This unusual practice was followed so that the ‘expensive’ brass torch would not be stolen. But on the night before the accident, it is suspected that the workers forgot to close the valve and the gas leaked out through the haphazardly sealed hose during the night leading to the catastrophe, F&B sources said.
 
 Two valves at the manifold must be shut after this careless procedure to stop the gas flow.
 
 The procedure would have resulted in the deadly gas within the hose getting leaked daily, F&B sources said. On the fateful day the valve itself must have been left open or improperly closed.
 
 “Considering that a huge quantity of gas need to accumulate in the spot to cause such a big explosion, it seems that the valves were not properly closed and the gas found its way through the tied-up end of the rubber hose. Neither the workers nor their contractor has given us a statement that the valve was closed after the previous day’s work. We suspect that the valve was left open leading to a major leak and the subsequent explosion,” said P Pramod, director, Factories and Boilers department.
 
 The chairman of the CSL had claimed on the day of mishap that a gas-free permit was secured before the day’s work. But, F&B officials said that they are yet to receive such a document form the company.
 
 “No gas-free permit issued on the morning of that day has come to our notice. The only document that has been received is of a one-time work permit given at least a couple of weeks back. If such a test was held in the morning, then the gas would’ve been detected,” said an F&B official.
 
 Minister for industries A C   said that he could comment only after an official report. “They have accepted that it was acetylene gas leak. They have recorded the time of the valve being opened and other related details. Let the agencies investigate and submit a report to the government. If there are irregularities as per the report then action will be taken. It is a very reputed institution in Kerala, hence I can’t comment on the issue before getting an official report,” said the minister.
 
 Madhu S Nair, chairman and managing director of CSL refuted the allegations. “If this was the practice in CSL, then a fire tragedy would’ve happened earlier itself. There are four investigations going on in the issue and I don’t want to comment on it now. Let the reports be filed,” said the chairman.
 
