GHAZIABAD: A two-member panel has been formed by the   to probe how the 30-foot-long girder at the under-construction   metro station was dislodged from its place and fell onto the GT Road below and whether there were adequate safety measures in place.

 “The inquiry will be conducted by a two-member panel.   secretary Santosh Rai and chief engineer VN Singh have been tasked to undertake the probe. The additional district magistrate (city) of Ghaziabad had conducted an inspection of the spot on Monday. Action, if any, will be taken only after the inquiry is completed,” GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari said on Tuesday.
 
 The steel beam weighing several tonnes had fallen onto the GT Road 30ft below during rush hour on Monday, injuring five persons. An auto-rickshaw, a Hyundai Santro and a biker had a close shave as the girder fell on the left portion of the road and just brushed against them. The situation could have been much worse had the beam fallen onto the middle of the road during office-hour traffic around 10am.
 
 The injured included a woman passenger of the auto whose condition was stated to be “extremely critical”. The woman, a 27-year-old law teacher in a Sahibabad college, was referred to a private multi-specialty hospital in Sector 62 of Noida late on Monday night after her condition deteriorated. She has been admitted to the ICU of the hospital.
 
 “Doctors at the hospital conducted an MRI on her, which revealed a fracture in the backbone. A blood clot in one of the kidneys has also been detected. Doctors said there were high chances of infection in the left leg, which suffered the maximum injuries. After six days, doctors will take a call on whether to conduct a surgery on her,” her younger brother Mohit told TOI.
 
 Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, which is implementing the project, was yet to announce any inquiry into the accident as of Tuesday. It had, however, suspended two of its engineers apart from terminating the services of the sub-contractor on Monday. DMRC has also promised compensation for those injured in the accident besides taking care of their medical treatment. The under-construction Mohan Nagar metro station is part of the extended Red Line from   to New Bus Stand.
 
 On Tuesday, Ghaziabad police asked DMRC to provide a list of officials working at the metro site in order to initiate legal proceedings against them.
 
 
