 fame  , who is currently in the   house, has been a newsmaker right from the beginning of the controversial reality series. Even though the actress started her career playing the good bahu Akshara in the daily soap, the viewers got to witness a completely different side to her in Bigg Boss. 

 Since the game is in the concluding week, it is no secret that the 'Khatron Ke Khiladi' participant has been active throughout the show in terms of her participation in the tasks. She is ambitious and doesn't hesitate to compete with the men. The strong winning streak in her makes her a strong contender against Vikas Gupta, Shilpa Shinde, Puneesh Sharma and Akash Dadlani.
 Hina's beau Rocky Jaiswal made it a piint to keep his lady love at peace when he entered the house during the family member special episode.
 
 
 
 
 While we may see the tough girl in her during the tasks,   has also shed tears when she was sidelined by the contestants. Her soft side was on display when her boyfriend Rocky came to visit her in the house twice. Much in love, she was also mocked by Shilpa Shinde for turning into a sob queen with the mention of her boyfriend 'Ro'. Rocky, on his part, has been keeping the buzz alive for the actress outside the house. 
 
 During her journey, the actress also formed strong bonds with housemates Priyank Sharma and Luv Tyagi. The trio were inseparable and fun to watch together. Hina also won many-a-heart with her cleaning skills. Her musical talent came to the fore as she sang several songs in her melodious voice. Her fashion sense in the house, too, got noticed. Right from her clothes to her make-up, Hina's style game has been one of her strong points in the game. 
 
  
  
 However, her all fresh wardrobe became a point of controversy as a designer accused her of hiring clothes and accessories. This made a lot of people stand up and notice how the actress had borrowed clothes before entering the house, cashing in on her popularity. While in the game, Hina also picked up a lot of fights specially with Shilpa Shinde and Arshi Khan. 
 
 She faced criticism for trying to be 'classy' all the time, and commenting on the looks and hygiene of other inmates. Not just that, the actress spoke ill-about south Indian actresses, which left popular celebs like Hansika Motwani and Khushbu Sundar fuming. 
 
 Outside the house, Hina even faced the wrath of the industry for calling Sakshi Tanwar 'cross-eyed' and questioning the followers of Gauahar Khan and Sunny Leone on their social media accounts. Besides, she has also been accused of forgetting things at her convenience, not only by the inmates but also by popular TV celebs like Karan Patel. 
 
 Despite the odds, Hina Khan remains a strong contender of the trophy and the prize money. She stands tall and holds her own in the house. All this makes us see her as a potential winner of   11. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
