NAGPUR: An erudite teacher of music, Pt   says that a rapport has to be created between the artist and the listener in order to make music meaningful.

 “It is knowledge which is the bridge between the two,” says Pt Vyas, who is in the city for a series of lecture demonstrations organized by Nagpur chapter of SPIC MACAY at various institutions.
 
 In a freewheeling chat with TOI, Pt Vyas emphasized on imparting basic knowledge of music to the younger generation so that this rich tradition gets perpetuated. “Some degree of knowledge is essential for appreciating classical music as it is based on raagdaari which has to be understood,” Pt Vyas says.
 
 “Performances have two sides to it. One is the performer and the other is the one who watches or listens. To ensure that it is pleasurable to the audience, the artist has to be on the same wavelength with him to achieve the objective,” he says.
 
 Explaining various stages of understanding music, Pt Vyas says that at primary level, it can be understood by everybody. “It is better nuanced when its intrinsic beauty emerges and those with certain understanding will appreciate it. But the final level is raagdaari, a very sophisticated presentation which requires practice and education to be understood,” he says, adding that by training people in music, a generation of listeners is created who can check and correct a musician. “This this raises the bar for music itself.”
 
 Mentioning the names of great masters vocalist  , whose lineage he carries forward, and of   in instrumental music, Pt Vyas says, “These two maestros had an array of students. Only five of Pt Paluskar’s students performed to showcase classical music. The others spread across the country to propagate the rich traditions.”
 
 Lauding the efforts of SPICMACAY, the maestro said, “Through these events, we sow the seed in young minds which later may sprout to make great musicians.”
 
 Appreciating the youth today who are experimenting extensively, he said, “Their talent amazes me and I am very optimistic that with the information boom around them, they will create great music. AR   is one such prodigy who revolutionized the manner in which music can be created in a studio,” he said referring to the music of the film Roza.
 
 Stressing the need for originality, Pt. Vyas says, “There are four levels to attaining perfection, the first being imitation then inspiration followed by innovation. But the final level is originality which was there in Kumar Gandharav. His renditions were original.”
 
 Terming the music world today as one in turmoil, the musician says, “What took centuries to evolve is being done in two years now. But I am positive that something good will emerge as our traditions are very strong. The ultimate test is that of time.”
 
 
