
 
 
 A few days later, reports emerged that it is also planning to develop a one-of-its-kind Jain tourist circuit as places like Palitana, Naliya, Taranga and Songadh in the state attract a lot of Jain tourists throughout the year. There are plans to develop this tourist circuit with several others states including Bihar.
 
 
  These developments assume significance particularly in the wake of the recently concluded once-in-12-year ‘Bahubali Mahamastakabhishek’ at Shravanabelagola near Bengaluru in Karnataka. It is not only believed to be one of the most important occasions for Jains but also tourists and political leaders as evident from the fact that President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated it and Prime Minister Narendra Modi took part in its concluding ceremony.
 
  Even Ahmedabad mayor Gautam Shah--- who along with Law and Justice Minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama has been playing role in the amicable resolution of the dispute between Hindus and Jains over the fifth ‘tonk’ (peak) of Girnar—visited Shravanabelagola.
 
  When asked how ‘Mini   Mela’ tag will benefit the area or local economy,  , said, “It is a laudable step. This announcement will boost tourism in the area
 
 
 
  He added, “For several years now, saints, seers, monks and people from across the country participate in the   fair at Girnar. With the Gujarat Government giving it the ‘Mini Kumbh’ tag, the area will gain prominent significance and not only lead to a huge footfall of pilgrims but also attract tourists, creating more facilities and job opportunities. Girnar would not only gain a new identity but would soon become a new identity of Gujarat.”
 
  Shah added, “On the occasion of ‘Moksha Kalyanak’ (salvation day) of   Bhagwan on ‘Ashad Shukla Satam’, more than 50 buses carrying thousands of Jain pilgrims from across India arrive in Girnar to perform the ceremony of ‘Nirvana Ladoo’ in presence of collector and local administration. Religious festivities at the Jain temples in Girnar ‘Taleti’ and on the hill span over two to three days.”
 
  
 
 
  On his Shravanabelagola visit, Shah informed, “For the Karnataka event, Gujarat Digamber Jain Yuva Sangh, Mumbai had arranged a train to take devotees to Shravanabelagola. After talks with the Karnataka government, the train was allowed to go till the nearest station which is at 40 km distance for the convenience of pilgrims, particularly the elderly and women.” 
 
 
