NAGPUR: The sessions court here on Wednesday awarded the rare double death penalty to the murderer of a poor saloon owner’s son. The convict was also slapped with Rs25,000 fine. This is only the third double death penalty in Vidarbha in the last 5 years. 

 
  
 
 While announcing the quantum of punishment, additional sessions and district judge Shekhar Munghate sentenced Santosh Kalwe to the gallows on two counts of kidnapping and diabolical killing of 11-year-old   near Mihan flyover on June 10, 2013. He was also awarded seven years rigorous imprisonment for destruction of evidence.
 
 “The accused be hanged by neck till he is   and all his sentences would run concurrently,” the judge said in his operative order, before terming it as a fit case to be brought under “rarest of rare” category. The court examined 27 witnesses and relied on last seen theory by two children, who saw the accused taking the deceased on his blue Bajaj Discover motorcycle.
 
 The prosecution, led by special public prosecutor Vijay Kolhe, successfully proved that the accused kidnapped the child for ransom and brutally stoned him to death. After his heinous act, he put the body under concrete blocks under the Mihan bridge. Four hours after committing the brutal act, Kalwe, a resident of Malegaon, Washim, made four ransom calls under the name of Javed Khan to deceased’s father Nitin, residing near Hanuman temple at Khapri, demanding Rs2 lakh in exchange for his son.
 
 After the poor father lodged a complaint with Sonegaon police station on June 10, 2013, they caught hold of the accused based on statements of witnesses. Kalwe, who used to work with a private company, spilt the beans after intense grilling, and took them to the spot where he hid the body. Some 22 injuries were found on the body of the deceased, studying in fifth standard.
 
 The accused, who used to reside near Borkar’s house, lured the boy with chips and soft drinks when the latter was playing with his friends. He took him to an isolated area near Mihan overbridge, and murdered him.
 
 During investigations, the police recovered mud-stained clothes and other material from Kalwe’s home. The soil samples on his clothes matched the spot where the body was found.
 
 Kolhe said, “The accused had also duped some youths by promising them jobs, and taken Rs20,000 from them. Even SIM cards used by him to make ransom calls were found to be bogus. He is also believed to have performed some rituals after performing the diabolic act, but it could not be proved during the probe.”
 
 The judge directed the court registry to submit case proceedings to Nagpur bench of Bombay high court for confirmation of death penalty as per the CrPC. He further asked the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to conduct an enquiry and decide quantum of compensation to be awarded to the Borkar family.
 
 This is the third double death penalty in Vidarbha in last five years. The first was by Yavatmal sessions court to Shatrughan Masram for raping and murdering his two-year-old niece on February 11, 2013. The last one had been to Yug Chandak’s killers on February 2016, which was confirmed by the high court in May 2016. In the similar case of Kush Katariya, the court awarded two life terms to the accused, while the HC added third one, which were upheld by the Supreme Court.
 
 
