GURUGRAM: The   has amended motor vehicle rules to empower a specific team of officials to check for trucks carrying sand and minerals beyond the permissible limit around mining zones and stone crushing units.

 Under the Haryana Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Rules, 2018, announced on Monday, the government will set up at least 18 outposts within 5km of the recognised mining zones and stone crushing units to monitor if vehicles ferrying sand and minerals have proper papers. The administration will also install CCTV cameras to keep an eye on  .
 
 “The amended rules will authorise us to set up nakas (outposts) and check trucks for overloading. Any truck carrying illegal quantity of minerals and stones, especially near the crushing units, will hint at illegal mining. We will then conduct an extensive investigation,” said  , the district mining officer.
 
 Sources said the decision to increase vigil around the mining zones was taken after it was found that only 5 FIRs had been registered for illegal mining in Gurgaon in 2017, as against 10 the previous year. Illegal mining around the Aravallis, an eco-sensitive zone, has been a cause for concern for the government for the past several years. Mining activities around the Aravallis had been banned by the Supreme Court in 2005.
 
 Under the amended rules, the officials who will have the power to issue challans include the transport commissioner, deputy commissioner, additional deputy commissioner, additional or joint state transport commissioner, regional transport authority secretary, motor vehicle inspector (enforcement) and assistant secretary, and the flying squad officer. Earlier, only the RTA had the authority to issue such challans.
 
 Around a dozen-odd departments are expected to work together to keep illegal mining in check. Eighteen check-posts will be set up across the mining areas, with the control room in Karnal.
 
 In Gurgaon district, the check-posts will come up in the areas between Kherki Daula and Vatika Chowk and between Sector 56 and Gwal Pahari. The team of officials will check trucks for overloading, bills, permission slips and so on. If any vehicle is found to be illegally transporting stones and minerals, it will be impounded and action will be taken against the owner.
 
 Officials said the check-posts would be manned by police and mining officers in three shifts.
 
 The temporary outposts will be shifted at regular intervals and a particular set of officials will be posted at each outpost only for three days at a stretch. CCTV cameras, too, will be installed in strategic locations and any official conducting checks without permission will face disciplinary action, officials said.
 
 
