NEW DELHI: The last one month has been the most difficult for the family members of the eight-month-old girl who was raped by her cousin and left bleeding in her home in  , north-west Delhi. The infant was discharged from hospital after major surgeries, and she needs three more before she can lead a normal life again. Having suffered vaginal and rectal tears, among other injuries, the baby starts to tremble and cry as soon as she sees someone she isn’t familiar with.

 On Monday, when TOI met the family, the bandaged girl screamed on seeing a new face and her mother had to soothe her in her lap. The mother, equally traumatised, held her daughter close to her chest and disclosed that the family was planning to shift to Kolkata to make a new beginning. She said she and her husband had decided never to tell the girl of her childhood nightmare and, therefore, wanted to migrate to Kolkata to make a clean break with the capital.
 
 “Both my husband and I are trying hard to make ends meet,” the mother said. “We keep blaming ourselves for not being at home on the morning when our daughter was raped. But then we had never ever imagined our own relative would end up scarring our baby for life. It still distresses me to remember seeing my daughter lying in a pool of blood that day.”
 
 The girl’s father worked as a daily wage labourer, while the mother earned a living as a domestic help in the houses nearby. The chastened parents will resume work only when they have someone trustworthy taking care of their daughter at home.
 
 Recalling the incident of January 28, the mother said that she left for work, leaving her daughter with the accused and his wife, who usually took care of the girl. “When I returned home, he was drunk and was strolling on the street. Before I could ask him anything, he pointed at my house and said that my daughter was crying profusely,” the woman said. “He complained that she created a lot of mess when I was away. I got offended and hurried to my house, where I was shocked to find my daughter writhing in pain in a pool of blood.”
 
 The mother rushed the girl to a local hospital, where she was advised to have a police complaint registered at the Netaji Subhash Place police station. The case sparked a massive uproar, and on a concerned Supreme Court’s directive, the infant was shifted to  . The girl’s treatment at the institution has been funded by the state government, the parents being economically disadvantaged and needful of all possible help. The infant has a two-year-old sister, who is yet to start schooling.
 
 “My husband and I are doing our best to make sure our daughter is comfortable,” the mother said. “After her surgeries, she needs attention 24x7. I dress her   more than 40 times a day. The doctors have told us that the stitches on her private parts will be removed only when fully healed. That will take two weeks more.”
 
 
