Actress and Lucknowite  , who shot to fame with the serial  , was recently in the city to promote her serial   with actors Harshad Chopra,   and Sehban Azim. The actress made the most of her visit as she visited her alma.mater the La Martiniere College. "Being from La Martiniere Girls' College, I have come to the boys’ college only twice for socials. Coming back here for a photoshoot for Lucknow Times was quite nostalgic. The building is actually like a huge heritage site.. Isse pehle I could never see the whole building because when I used to come here for socials, the teachers used to keep a close eye on us. We were not allowed to roam around the campus. We were directly brought to the auditorium and then we used to go back," says Namita, adding, "I felt like as if my life has come a full circle - kahan I used to come to La Martinere as a student and now I am here as a heroine for a photoshoot - the feeling just couldn’t be explained in words."

 Remembering her days of the socials at the school, Namita said, "As I mentioned in my earlier interview, I had danced with 15 boys on my first social at La Martinere and at the second one with almost 11. But when I went for the second one, which was a Cock House Party, I was in class XII and most of the boys were in class IX, X and XI grade…so they were like kids. But it was so much fun. For all the girls, interacting with the boys used to be one thing that we all looked forward to as ours was an all- girls college."
 
 From playing a lead in her last serial Bade Bhaiyya Ki Dulhania to playing a second lead in Bepannaah now, we wonder what made her say yes to it at the start of her career. "My role isn't even a second or a parallel lead. Mine is a special role and I am an indispensable part of the storyline as it is narrated in a flashback. What made me say yes to such a role is the way the story has been weaved, the way the styling of all the characters has been done. And working with the whole team is a very good experience for me. Just because I wasn't playing a lead, I didn't want to say no to such an opportunity,"said she, adding, "I have been getting good offers but somehow I couldn't be a part of the shows. After Bade Bhaiyya wrapped up, I got an offer for a very good show, but for some reason I couldn't do it. And unfortunately, soon after two months, that show was taken off air. Then I was finalized for another show and then the whole channel got revamped and the show was shelved. So something or the other was going wrong with me. But finally the jinx is over with Bepannaah!"
 
