AHMEDABAD: The likely cut in   will be offset by the AMC putting its   to full use. The AMC has also begun surveying 257   that have not been used for a long time. AMC feels a cut of around 300 million litres per day (MLD) will not mean a   for the city.

 The city is presently supplied 1,200 MLD. The city was getting about 900 MLD from the Narmada and the remaining 300 MLD from borewells, French wells and intake wells. The AMC presently supplies water for two hours in the morning and 30 minutes in the evening.
 
 Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “At present, we do not have any cut, but there is a possibility of cuts from April. We are ready to tackle the problem. We have already deployed a team of staffers to check the quality of water in 257 borewells. If found fit for drinking, they will be put to use.”
 
 “We have worked out all possible scenarios and will ensure that citizens don’t face a water crisis in the days to come. If we get a cut of 30%, AMC will offset it by using its existing borewells. We have also made provisions for 30 more borewells, which will be ready for use by April. Areas have been identified and the standing committee’s approval for commissioning the work will be given soon,” said the municipal commissioner.
 
 These 30 new borewells will be set up in areas where there is pressure on the water supply.
 
 According to officials, the city has 240 borewells that are currently used for eight to 10 hours. The AMC now plans to increase pumping hours from 10 to 20, which will increase the amount of water drawn from these 240 borewells by 100 MLD. Further there are 30 borewells, 22 in Kotarpur and eight in Dudheshwar, which were not used as the city was getting enough water from the Narmada. Using these borewells will increase supply by 30 MLD. From the 257 borewells that are not in use, AMC plans to draw 110 MLD.
 
 The corporation also plans to get around 50 MLD of water from 30 new borewells. This would add up to 290 MLD per day, enough to mitigate any cut in Narmada water.
 
 
