Food is not always your friend. Equally, food is not always your enemy. Some foods react with your physiology differently from others. The same food that can give nourishment to one person can cause digestive problems in another. Examples of these would be lactose and gluten intolerance. But if you have done your detective work and have discovered that neither a wheatless nor doodhless existence seem to soothe your discomfort, you may have an inability to digest   foods.
 
 
 FODMAP is short for Fermentable Oligo-, Di-, Mono-saccharides and Polyols, which are essentially groups of carbohydrates, that are infamous for causing digestive problems such as gas, bloating and stomach pains. FODMAPs include four groups of foods:
 
  This group includes fruits, and vegetables like garlic and onions. Wheat, legumes and rye are also oligosaccharides.
 
  This is where lactose is the primary carbohydrate; these foods include milk, cheese and curds.
 
  This group is where fructose is the primary carbohydrate. Fruits like mangoes and figs as well as honey and agave nectar would be good examples of monosaccharides. 
 
  These are those sweeteners found in sugar-free   drinks or chewing gum. Polyols are also present in veggies, and fruits like blackberries and lychees. 
 
 Now that you know the FODMAPs, a diet that bans these from your plate will solve all your digestive problems, correct? Alas, no. Restricting such major food groups must — I cannot emphasise this enough — MUST be done with extreme caution; simply because so many of these foods provide vital nutrients for your body. And yet, digestive problems can be extremely debilitating. So if you have tried everything else, work with your nutritionist on a low-FODMAP diet, which can work wonderfully for stomach aches, gas, bloating, bowel issues and flatulence. 
 
 In order to ‘qualify’ for the diet, you first need a genuine diagnosis of IBS or Irritable Bowel Syndrome. If you indeed qualify and you have tried everything else, a low   has three stages:
 
 
 when you ban all high FODMAP foods. Your doctor or nutritionist will be able to help you with a full list.
 
 when you slowly reintroduce high-FODMAP foods to see which ones suit you and which ones don’t.
 
  when you monitor the quantity and type of high-FODMAP foods that your body can tolerate.
 Most high-FODMAP foods promote good gut health. Please remember that all of them can’t be banned. Be patient, be careful, be vigilant. 
 
 
 A diet that bans all FODMAP foods from your plate will not solve all your digestive problems. Restricting such major food groups must — I cannot emphasise this enough — MUST be done with extreme caution.
 
 
 
 
