LUCKNOW: If the poor infrastructure at Charbagh   station often leaves you in trauma, there’s more ordeal in store. It’s the monkeys on prowl, which keep passengers reeling even as they rush to catch a train.

 Now,   attacks have become routine at the city’s main railway station. On Saturday, a youth was bitten by a monkey, taking the number of such cases to three this week.
 
 Brijesh Kumar Rastogi, 26, resident of Telibagh, was chased and bitten by two monkeys near a foot-over bridge on platform 7. "I was crossing the FoB when two monkeys charged at me without provocation. They chased me from one end of the bridge to another. I tried to shoo them away, but one of them bit my left leg," he told TOI.
 
 On May 5, Sajal Sahu, 14, was bitten by a monkey while he was crossing the foot-over bridge near platform 1. "I was going to catch a train with my uncle when suddenly a monkey leapt at me and sank its teeth on my left ankle, leaving me writhing in pain," he said. Raju (48) was attacked in a similar manner on May 7 while was crossing the bridge.
 
 Several incidents of monkeys snatching food from passengers and chasing them happen daily. Passengers say no action has been taken despite repeated complaints.
 
 On Thursday, TOI did a reality check at   station and found scores of monkeys roaming on the foot-over bridges and platforms. Around 3.15 pm, as passengers arrived from Patna-Kota Express and began crossing the second foot-over bridge, three monkeys charged at a 19-year old passenger. "Fear gripped me as I saw that simians had jammed the bridge. I was shell-shocked when three monkeys tried to pounce at me too. Fortunately, I had a narrow escape,” said Zaid, resident of Gomtinagar, who arrived from Patna-Kota Express.
 
 In another case, a monkey chased 13-year-old Bharti near the staircase of platform 7. She fell and got injured when a monkey attacked her. "The monkey would have bitten me had my father not rushed out to help," said the girl who came to board a train for Assam with her family. Just not Bharti, 22-year-old Divya Vishnoi was chased by the monsters on platform 1 near the parcel section. “When I came down from my coach, some monkeys tried to jump at me. Fortunately, a government railway police official helped me to wriggle out,” said Vishnoi.
 
 DRM Northern Railway Lucknow division Satish Kumar acknowledged that monkeys were creating a big problem. He said more security personnel will be deployed for safety of passengers. As of now, we cannot stop monkeys from entering the premises because the station's entrance is porous. The problem is expected to be solved once the station gets re-modelled with an integrated infrastructure, he said.
 
 
