LUCKNOW: Alarmed by a large number of accidents on Agra-Lucknow Expressway, the state government has decided to install cameras on the 302-km stretch. The plan, which was mooted during the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday, entails installation of cameras on strategic points to keep a hawk-eyed vigil on over-speeding vehicles, illegal entry of heavy vehicles and ones plying wrong side. 

 Briefing reporters after the cabinet meeting, principal secretary (information)   said that use of cameras was being mulled as a long-term solution to check accidents on the expressway. He said that the state government would also seek more deployment of police on certain points to check illegal entry of heavy vehicles on the expressway. Lending a significant push to construction of the ambitious   connecting Lucknow with Ghazipur, the state cabinet headed by UP chief minister  , also set a deadline for completing the bids by March end. The expressway project, which is to be the longest in the country, would be constructed in eight packages, connecting Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Allahabad and Ayodhya.
 
 
 
 
 The cabinet also gave its nod to approval of Rs 2,000 crore loan from the Allahabad Bank, besides initiating process for getting Rs 15,000 crore loan from the State Bank of India for the project.
 
 Awasthi said that more than 80% of the land required for the project had been acquired. The project, which is estimated to come at a cost of Rs 22,000 crore, would also have an air strip that would be constructed on Kudebhar stretch in Sultanpur district.
 
 Awasthi, who is also chief executive officer of UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), said that the process of completing the Request For Qualification (RFQ) would be completed by February 15 before allocating contracts to the developers.
 
 The cabinet also tweaked the expressway configuration by reducing the median’s width to 5.5 meters. It also gave its nod to a wider right of way on the side of the expressway for being used to lay gas pipe lines.
 
 
 
