NEW DELHI: Travelling from his home in Sector 77 in Noida to his office in Cyber City, Gurugram, used to be a two-hour ordeal for chartered accountant Deepak Goyal. On Tuesday morning, however, commuting was a breeze, as Goyal sat in the air-conditioned comfort of Delhi Metro’s  . The nearly 25-km-long Kalkaji Mandir-Janakpuri West section of the corridor opened to public from 6 am on Tuesday, and Gurugram suddenly seemed closer to Goyal. 

 “Earlier, I rode up to   and then take the train to Gurugram. Now I can change trains at Hauz Khas and save at least half an hour of commuting time. This means I can afford to leave a little late for office and also reach home early and get more family time,” the chartered accountant said.
 
 
  
 The section thrown open on Monday completes the over 38-km-long Magenta Line with its origination stations at Botanical Garden in Noida and Janakpuri West in west Delhi. While the corridor finally connects west Delhi with Noida directly at a travel time of about an hour, it also puts south Delhi areas such as Vasant Vihar, Munirka, IIT, Greater Kailash and Chirag Dilli on the Delhi Metro map.
 
 While the first section between Botanical Garden and   was opened in December last year, it was the second section extending the line to Janakpuri West that was eagerly awaited, primarily due to its connection with the Hauz Khas metro station.
 
 First day, house full
 
 The new service was an immediate hit with the people. In the morning peak hour on Tuesday, hundreds didn’t find space to sit as the trains ran to full house. “I had been waiting for this corridor to open for a long time because I go to Hauz Khas every day to take a train to Gurugram, where my office is located,” said Anahita Banerjee, a Chittaranjan Park resident. “I was completely surprised to see the huge crowd on the platform at Hauz Khas station.”
 
 Restaurateur Sachin Sahni too has decided to dump his car and take public transport. “I live in Greater Kailash II but travel regularly to Noida and Gurugram on work. With the Greater Kailash station of the Magenta Line now open, I can park my car there and take the metro to these places,” he said.
 
 Sahni’s reasons for giving up his car are impeccable. “When I can travel comfortably in the metro, why would I bother to drive in the heat, dust and traffic?” he smiled. “I don’t have to worry about driving home on choked roads in the evening either.” With people like him ready to stop driving, Sahni believes the Magenta Line will help in a big way to decongest south Delhi roads.
 
 Happy flyers & shoppers
 
 For lakhs of residents of west Delhi, one of the most populous parts of the capital, the only lifeline connecting them to the rest of the city till Monday was the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali), which involved traveling up to Rajiv Chowk and then a change of trains if they wanted to reach other parts of Delhi-NCR. The Magenta Line has eased travel by connecting heavily populated areas like Palam, Dabri, Mahavir Enclave, Sagarpur and Dashrathpuri.
 
 “Travelling from Mahavir Enclave to south Delhi meant taking a long detour via Rajiv Chowk, but from today we have the option of reaching south Delhi or Gurugram in a much shorter time,” exulted Savita Khanna, who works in a private firm.
 
 Another much awaited station on the corridor is the one at Terminal 1 of the Indira Gandhi International Airport. This addition has eased people’s access to the domestic departure and arrival terminals. On Tuesday, the station not only saw many flyers taking a metro, but also joyriders who simply wanted to check out the sleek station there. Most of those using the metro station were passengers who flew into the capital and discovered they had this new service.
 
 Flyers were peeved, however, that the subway connecting the arrival terminal and the metro station would not come up before January 2019. At present, the passengers have to walk the distance. “The Terminal 1-IGI Airport metro station is a great facility for budget travellers, but until a subway connects the terminal and the station, walking in the open, especially in the heat, will remain taxing,” said ghazal singer Kamlesh Upadhyay.
 
 
