CHENNAI: Nearly eight lakh schoolgirls belonging to the   and ST categories will have it tough as the Centre stops scholarships for such students across the country under the National Scheme of Incentives to Girls for Secondary Education (NSIGSE) from the next academic year.

 The Union human resource development ministry, in a recent circular to all the states, has mentioned that the scheme - introduced in 2008-09 to arrest dropout - would be discontinued from March 31, and only pending proposals from the previous academic year would be considered. About 70,000 girls in   will be affected. 
 
 A government official told TOI that the scheme, which has been under the direct benefit transfer, ran into problems about three years ago when funds were delayed. The Centre had made the states create zero-balance accounts for the beneficiaries, and there was a two-year-delay in releasing funds. Meanwhile, the banks closed these accounts due to 'inactivity', the source said. "With no accounts to release pending funds, the Centre has asked the states to return the unutilised amount." 
 
 Moreover, the authorities entered incorrect   or bank account numbers. Records accessed by TOI showed that banks could not transfer the scholarship money to student accounts due these anomalies.
 
 As per the guidelines of the scheme launched in 2008-09 by the UPA-II government, an incentive of 3,000 will be deposited in the name of the students on completion of Class VIII. Beneficiaries can withdraw the amount on attaining 18 years of age, after clearing their Class X exam. 
 
 
 
 
 Though the Union government promised that all scholarships would be given to all beneficiaries, only 18 of the proposals sent from Tamil Nadu were accepted, according to an RTI reply from the HRD ministry.
 
 Of the total 4.15 lakh applications sent from the state since 2008-09, only 73,000 have received funds so far.
 
 There is no clarity on how the authorities filtered the applications and under what criteria, said Madurai-based activist S Karuppaiah, who sourced the information through RTI.
 
 “State authorities couldn’t keep track of whether the funds reached the beneficiaries or not as the Centre did not inform the state,” he said.
 
 There has been a gradual decline in funds allotted for this scheme.
 
 From ₹128 crore in 2008-09 for 11.72 lakh students, the figure dropped to ₹45 crore for 8.2 lakh in 2016-17.
 
 
