RAIPUR: Two days after two poachers were arrested in   district and a   skin was recovered from their posession, a wildlife enthusiast in Chhattisgarh has claimed it to be hide of one of the two tigers of   Sitanadi Tiger Reserve. The activist wrote to National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) and sent photographs of tiger taken during July 2017 along with the seized skin. A thorough investigation was demanded into the matter by comparing the photographs and ensure safety of other tigers in the reserve. 

 Crime branch of Gariyaband district had nabbed two poachers from   region with tiger skin and were presently probing and trying to connect links if there was a bigger racket involved. 
 
 Wildlife activist Nitin Singhvi on Saturday has written to NTCA saying, "While police have been claiming that the tiger had come from neighbouring Odisha and fell prey to poaching, observation of photographs captured in camera trap and the hide indicates that it was the same tiger of Udanti Sitanadi. Moreover, the presence of tiger was last captured in July 2017 and many times before that but never after July. The skin has two bullet marks which indicates that the national animal was shot."
 
 There were confirmed reports of presence of a male and female tiger in Udanti Sitanadi. Now, that the reserve has lost one tiger, safety and protection of the tigress needs to be ensured, the letter reads. 
 
 According to the data, nearly 15 tiger skins have been recovered between 2006 and 2017 from Indravati Tiger Reserve, Udantai Sitanadi, Kanker and other forests which clearly indicates towards urgency of taking preventive measures against poaching. Singhvi, in his letter to NTCA, has demanded for investigation and preventive measures to save remaining tigers.
 
 When contacted, PCCF wildlife,   said, "Several speculations are being made as to where did the tiger belonged to. While the police probe is still underway, forest department can't intervene in the investigation though we extend full support. The claims of wildlife activist were baseless as the photographs clicked in camera trap are never shared by the department. The forest department would ensure protection of tigers and would ensure that after the arrest of two persons, there is no other network active in the region."
 
 
