Anupam Kher, who is also known for his association with several noble causes, was recently approached by the   to create awareness among the people about railway safety measures. The prolific actor, on Sunday, was specially invited by the Central Railway authorities to create awareness among the people to respect their life and avoid crossing and trespassing of the railway tracks and also maintain hygiene at railway platforms.

  
  
  Besides sharing his special experience and memories travelling by local train during his struggling days,   also shot public awareness campaign   at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus. During this visit, the world-renowned actor also went for the heritage walk at the iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus building and also paid a visit to the Heritage Museum.
 
  Kher also interacted with   as he embarked on his rail journey from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to Bandra station. In his prolific film career spanning over three decades, the versatile actor has portrayed several interesting and memorable roles in successful films, including Bollywood and Hollywood.
 
  On completing 37 years in the city of dreams, Kher said, "37 years ago, I came to Mumbai - CST station with the dream to become an actor. I have fond memories traveling by train during my struggling days. The local train is rightly called the lifeline of Mumbai, with millions of people travelling daily. I think it's our responsibility and duty to maintain it as it's a public property."
 
  "Coincidentally, after all these years, I've been invited by the Central Railway to create awareness about railway safety measures and appeal to Mumbaikars to avoid crossing railway tracks and keeping the premises clean. It has been an amazing journey so far. I'm grateful to the audience for showering upon their love and support," the actor adds.
 
  Currently one of India's most successful crossover actor, Kher has the distinction of having bagged two nominations at the Screen Actors Guild Awards for 'Silver Linings Playbook' (2013) and 'The Big Sick' (2018) and a BAFTA nomination for ' '.
  
  
 
