Saral Jeevan, touted as the 1st Kannada infotainment channel will be airing news from Monday, on the 2nd anniversary of the channel. Initially, four news bulletins would be on air. The comprehensive news bulletins with `no hype and pure information’ will add strengthen to the channel identity as infotainment. 
 
    has been known for non-fiction programmes with focus on mythology, history, travel and insights into Indian heritage and culture, by being away from both news and general entertainment. Regarding the news content, business head of the channel,  , says, “Our approach is to present few comprehensive bulletins along with niche content. The bulletins are broadly categorized as breakfast, lunch and dinner time news. While other news channels are busy with flash and breaking news of all kinds, but Saral Jeevan sticks to comprehensive bulletin format with a clear gap of 3 to 5 hours between each bulletin.” 
  
  “We had a good content run of ajji helidakKathe (grandmother tales), History series and other programming inspired by our heritage & culture. Now is the right time to strengthen information area, hence the introduction of few new bulletins. We are confident that the new blend of news and programming will be liked by our viewers” says, MS  , edition of the channel.
  
  WHAT’S NEW?
  
    (Morning News): With the highlights of yesterday’s vital news and the stories that are expected to develop during the day. The news over a breakfast is perfect to start the day with news at 8am.
  
  Madhyanthara   (Mid-day News): The lunch time bulletin is a mid day news with the stories developed till 1pm. It covers national and state news at 1pm 
  Nammur   (Regional News): The regional news bulletin in the evening is dedicated to 30 districts of the state with local importance. It will be aired at 7.30pm 
  
  Samagra   (Prime News): The comprehensive bulletin of the day with day’s highlights and big stories, with prime focus on national and state politics at 10pm.
  
  Amara Prema Kathegalu (Evergreen Love Stories): A special program on weekdays is based on the legendary love stories from mythology & history. The most talked about love stories are perfectly scripted and presented with graphics support will be aired for viewers from Monday to Friday at 9pm 
  
  
  
