Arya’s relationship status has always been something that has intrigued   fans. In the past, rumours were aplenty, linking him with several women, but nothing turned out to be true. So, when he posted on social media that he was looking for a bride and later, announced about taking part in   on Colors Tamil, it took his fans by surprise. Here’s the actor telling us about finding the right match for him through this TV reality show. Excerpts... 

 
 Usually, people look for a perfect match among friends, at workplace or search on matrimonial sites. But I thought it would be more apt to look for someone on social media as you meet people from different walks of life there. On social media, you meet so many new people every day. That’s how I initially put up a post on social media and decided to be a part of the show.
 
 
 Yes, that’s exactly what I have also been trying all these years. But it hasn’t happened till now. It’s not that I didn’t want to get married. I have been trying to find the right person and get married for so many years. But nothing worked out. So, I thought, ‘Let me try this’.
 
 
 Until I get married to that person and settle down, I will not know if it will work or not. But I am trying my best to choose the right girl by understanding each of them well. I can’t guarantee anything. Life-la namma ethuvume full-a guarantee panna mudiyathu. Idhuvum appidi thaan irukkum.
 
 
 Unmayaa kashtamaana vishayam thaan, especially because they all like me and are trying to impress me. Naraya vishyangal irikku. I have to respect their feelings, too. They also have a life outside this. And to top it all, it’s a TV reality show. So, I’ve to consider a lot of things.
 
 
 Yeah, they all came to help me. They know me very well. I can’t take a decision on this all by myself. They know what I like and what I don’t like, and they’ve also given their valuable suggestions. 
 
 
 I’ve told him, ‘Adutha season-la nee vanthu kalyanam pannikko’. (laughs)
 
 
 They are like, ‘at least now you will get married!’ 
 
 
 I haven’t given a thought about all that. Now, my dream is to get married by choosing the right girl.
 
 
 Ghajinikanth is completely done and it should release in April. And I am hoping that the shoot of   will start by May or June. 
 
 
 
 
