Her debut film is sweeping awards, with its actors and technicians bagging them left, right and centre. 

  turned out to be the perfect launch pad for its leading lady  . But she seems to be in no hurry to take up projects. Nimisha, who has just wrapped up her film   with  , also has an exciting update about her next project. Here’s a tête-à-tête with the Eeda girl: 
 
 
 
 I play Hanna Elizabeth in Oru Kuprasidha Payyan. She is a woman struggling to make a mark in her career as the atmosphere is extremely male-dominated. She wants to create an identity for herself. I feel that she is like most working women of today, trying their level best to ensure that she performs well to stand out. Being on this movie set was an immense learning phase for me, as the actors and technicians were all veterans, like Nedumudi Venu or the film’s director Madhupal. 
 
 
 
 The truth is, director Madhupal aka Madhu chettan is fond of sharing all the knowledge he has, when you ask him doubts. He wouldn’t mind explaining even for an hour and a half or so! So, instead of sitting idle on the set during my breaks or receding into the privacy of the caravan, I used to be around him all the time, doing the claps, asking him numerous questions, learning camera tricks and even noting them down. I don’t think you can call it assistant direction, I was just making the best use of my time. 
 
 
 
 Yes, and the best was definitely sharing scenes with Nedumudi Venu, with whom I have many scenes! People like him easily excel in every scene. I wouldn’t be able to match it, but was conscious that my performance should look natural. 
 
 Also, Madhu chettan doesn’t mind going for as many retakes as he wants, and is a perfectionist of sorts. He explains what’s in his mind clearly, and thankfully, I didn’t have to go for reshoots but tried hard to give exactly what he expected. 
 
 
 
 Yes, we started shooting on April 20, and the present location is Thodupuzha. When I saw her for the first time, I was surprised, for she looks so young! But when we sat for the script discussion, I was enthralled by the way she narrated it. Then I understood she is very clear in her head about what she wants. Then, I also watched her National Award-winning documentary on Chembai. Working with my co-star Kunchacko Boban in this film is also a wonderful experience and he is someone who makes you comfortable to work with. 
 
 
 
 My character Clara is an educated girl, who is quite skilled even at housework. She is a girl with whom all women can connect with at some point. There is a good chance that one can feel ival kollamallo (She is great) at many junctures. She is very different from the other characters I have done. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) We were shooting in a thattukada for the film OKP and during my breaks, I kept on observing the chettans there making porotta. It looked really cool and I wanted to try it myself, despite me being less inclined to cooking, and they agreed. It was an adipoli experience. I made a few porottas — all I did was flatten and make them. There is no sequence of it in the film, it was purely a pastime. 
 
 
 
 Of course! Many said, ‘Cinema illenkilum jeevichu pokaam’ (You can survive even without movies). Well, all I feel about the comments are ‘Feel free to say whatever you want,’ I take it very lightly and feel it’s their right to comment. It’s not like anyone is directly coming to me and hurting me and so, it’s really ok. 
 
 
 
 I have just signed a Lal Jose project. I don’t know when the shoot will start as the date is not fixed, but I guess it might be during the year end. My co-stars aren’t revealed yet so I don’t think I can comment on that yet. 
 
