VISAKHAPATNAM: In what will be the first such instance in the state, a 17-year-old legally minor boy would be tried as an adult for crime under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The boy, from a single-parent family, is accused of killing a 45-year-old woman and stealing her ornaments around four months ago in Alipuram area of the city.

 The principal magistrate of the   (JJB) is dealing with the case that will come up for hearing this month. Psychiatrists at the city’s   (GHMC) have also ascertained that the boy, a school dropout who works as a hawker, was fully aware of the legal consequences of the crime and perpetrated the offence just like an adult.
 
 The minor had killed the woman by suffocating her with a pillow. He was apprehended by the SHO, East Sub Division, and booked under section 302 (murder), 380 (theft), 382 (well-planned theft causing death or injury) of the IPC, following a complaint lodged by the son of the victim.
 
 Besides the 17-year-old, there were two other accomplices — an adult and a 10-year-old boy — who assisted him in the crime. The 10-year-old would be treated by the JJB as a minor and will be sent to a correctional home, while the other accomplice would be treated as adult and if proven guilty, would be sent to central prison. The accused minor is now in Nellore with his single parent mother.
 
 Under section 302, the punishment for such crimes is life conviction or death penalty, seven years’ imprisonment and fine for theft in a dwelling residence and 10-year imprisonment and fine under section 382. However, as per the new law that came into force in January 2016, even if the juvenile is treated as an adult, capital punishment or life imprisonment cannot be given to him.
 
 The crime has been defined as a heinous offence under section 2 (33) of JJ Act, 2015. “The JJ Board has conducted a preliminary assessment with assistance from criminal psychologists of the GHMC. The juvenile board was assured of the offender’s mental capacity, physical fitness, knowledge of legal consequences, attitude and behaviour. He was neither repentant nor afraid after committing the crime. 
 
 “After the assessment, the JJB passed an order for trial at a designated court for children in  . If proved guilty, the boy would remain at a correctional home till the age of 21 after which he will be sent to the central prison to serve the remaining jail term. Punishment for him would be a maximum of seven years,” stated Abdul Raqueeb, panel advocate of JJB.
 
 
