Flashes of colour flit across the grounds of Kalagram, Chandigarh as members of the Rising Star bhangra group get ready for a performance. It is difficult to spot what would commonly be described as their “handicap”. Once you do spot it, you realize it is nothing – not a handicap or a strength. It just is.

 The members have performed all over the country and on the international stage as well. They are now used to the limelight they once struggled to get.
 
 Harinder Pal Singh (Govt employee, Punjab)
 
 It all started when their leader, Harinder Pal Singh, who belongs to Malout, looked on wistfully at a group of dancers in Tagore Theatre back in the 80s. He desperately wanted to join them, but polio had bent his right ankle inwards, making it unable to bear weight. Still, he was convinced he could dance. “I heard one of the members of that dance group had an accident and could not perform. I volunteered to replace him and wore the Bhangra dress. But the group leader turned up and said, ‘Eh loole langdeyan da kamm nahin hai’ (this is not something a lame person can do). That was a searing comment. I quietly slipped away and changed into my regular clothes, promising myself that I would dance and so would others like me,” he said.
 
 Over time, he reached out to people with disability and formed the Rising Star   Youth Club group. Their first performance was in Sainik School, Kapurthala in 1990.
 
 Pyara Singh Rahi (Writer, poet, song writer)
 
 Afflicted by polio in one leg, Rahi lets words, songs and dance flow to him with ease. The author of three books feels it takes some time getting used to the force exerted on the legs while dancing. “We have been warmly appreciated wherever we performed. Often, we steal the show from what you would call a ‘normal team’. It is not that people see we lack physical faculties and cheer for us. We have had to spend hours perfecting our techniques and adapting the techniques to suit our bodies,” he said.
 
 Kartar Singh (Dhol player)
 
 Kartar Singh is a representative of Punjab’s musical tradition handed down from father to son. Even though his right arm is completely limp, he can make people break into a dance with a flick of the wrist on the dhol. He started playing as a Class VI student, which meant he had to deal with naysayers at that age.
 
 “The dhol came to me naturally. My family was supportive, especially since the dhol is a way of life with us. But many people told me I would not be able to make it. The dhol is a taxing instrument and I could not hold my right arm steady,” he said. Kartar took the difficulties in stride, saying he would have to face problems even if he had a fully-functional limb. Now, he supports his right arm with the strap of the dhol and directs the force towards his wrist and fingers. The results, as those who have heard him would say, are awesome.
 
 Kuldeep Singh (Govt employee/dancer)
 
 The BA student was going to college one day when his family members asked him to switch the motor on and water the fields before going. When he went, he found the fuse damaged. He was trying to repair it when a surge of 11,000 watt current blazed through him, burning the right side of his body. The scars are still deep, but he has learnt to dance with them. “It was tough immediately in the aftermath of the accident. But life changed after I met Harinder paaji and became part of the group. Now, not only do I dance but also work as a driver in a government organization.
 
 Jagdeesh Singh (Govt employee)
 
 This dancer with one hand missing is an avid sportsperson. As part of the handicapped players’ team, he played cricket at the national level. A good swimmer and skater, he teaches children how to skate. That is not all, Jagdeesh loves driving and marathon running. He won the bronze medal in the 5-km race in the 2014 Paralympics. 
 
 Jagdeesh was disabled when his hand got caught in farm machinery and was severed. Aged 12, he walked home with the limb in his other hand. He reached the hospital after eight hours. His reaction to pain is interesting – he refuses to acknowledge it. “I don’t feel pain. It can be defeated by a strong mind,” he says. 
 
 Harpal Singh (Dancer/businessman)
 
 Having a polio-affected leg never dampened his enthusiasm for dancing. He used to dance alone in his room, too embarrassed to let anyone see. A friend did see and introduced him to Harinder and the group. Harpal has not looked back since. He manages his optical shop, practices dance and loves being the cynosure of all eyes.
 
 Kanti Prasad (Govt employee and theatre artist)
 
 There is something compelling about Kanti Prasad and he knows it. Taking a break from practice, Prasad, who does not have full function in the right leg, talks about his life as a dancer and theatre actor. His penetrating eyes make him the perfect choice for the role of villain, he says, smiling. “I have good stage presence and my confidence is high, even though I was shy once. I also play cricket,” says the Uttarakhand resident. Recalling the way he was bullied in school, Kanti Prasad says he has left a difficult past behind to welcome a future with promise.
 
 
