NEW DELHI: DU centralised registration for undergraduate courses started on its portal, at least 400 students have made payments and submitted their forms. More than 52,000 registrations have been made in the past 24 hours.

 
 However, several students who wanted to opt for both merit-and entrance-based courses ended up applying in just one and have requested the administration to cancel their applications.
 
 This year, the administration has included tabs for both types in the same portal to streamline the admission process. Officials said many students had not read the information bulletin carefully and ended up applying for one, believing that a separate form would have to be filled with a fresh payment. Any duplication of form will call for cancellation of the application.
 
 Officials of the   ( ) clarified that a student must select all his/her prefered courses on the same portal, and no change can be made to the application after the payment has been made. Several applicants have put forward questions related to documents for admission under different quotas, portal navigation and choice of courses to the grievance cell of the admission committee. The portal is now fully functional and till 7pm on Wednesday, 52,513 registrations were made.
 
 Till 4pm on Wednesday, 435 queries were received, with 11 remaining unanswered. In its attempt to improve grievance redressal, DU has, for the first time, added a special feature where every mail sent to the grievance mail ID (du.ug.help2018@gmail.com) will generate an automatic response with the appropriate links to the admission page, the portal or the information bulletin.
 
 “Often students rush to fill up the form and miss out on minor details. At times they give incorrect information. They should go through the information bulletin and understand every step before starting the process,” said  , deputy DSW. “They should not hurry as that may lead to a lot of mistakes.” He also said most grievances sent to the university through email are getting responses in real time. Many students who visited the campus on Wednesday were told to come from May 21 when DU will organise Open Houses for the aspirants.
 
 Last year, the admissions portal was ridden with glitches, leading to delays. The payment option also had several issues, prompting DU to ask   to take care of its payment gateway.
 
