CHANDIGARH: The three-day US government shutdown came to an end on Tuesday, but scientists and medical researchers across the globe are still unable to access data and references online as PubMed, a medical search engine run by the US federal government used as reference by millions of Indian medical scientists has been flashing a message about its slowdown as it is “being maintained by minimal staffing due to lapse in government funding.”

 PubMed is the single largest search engine for scientists and medical practitioners who use it for reference, particularly to start any research that has not been conducted before. PubMed comprises more than 27 million citations for biomedical literature from MEDLINE, life science journals, and online books.
 
 The researchers had access to alternate search engines like Scopus,   Scholar, Web of Science, but these are not as exhaustive. “We will have to shift to these alternative engines unless the PubMed is fixed. But we have been using PubMed since ages and find it easier,” said Dr  , the first Indian reviewer for Cochrane Review, an evidence-based medicine data centre in the UK.
 
 No student aid sponsored by the US federal government has been affected as the admission process for the current session is over. Moreover, the   (NIH), a medical research agency of the US department of health and human services, will not be able to enroll new patients. The official website of the NIH mentions: “The   is open and continues to function during the government shutdown. Patients currently enrolled in a protocol at the Clinical Center are able to continue their participation. However, at this time, the Clinical Center is not able to admit new patients — unless deemed medically necessary by the Clinical Center chief executive officer.”
 
 Five years ago, the Obamacare crisis in 2013 had brought Indian medical researchers to a similar virtual standstill as the PubMed was shut down for 16 days. “One relies on this search engine as it’s the only government-funded repository of scientific citations and publications,” said Dr  , former dean of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.
 
 Some publishers have been trying to work on developing an India-based search engine to do away with the dependency on the US. “I had been pursuing this idea with the government, urging it to help us form an Indian-based repository. Now, we must get serious on this as we need not to look to the US every time for such search tools,” said R  , formerly associated with a US-based publication group. 
 
 The NIH, University of Miami and PGIMER are jointly working on a Rs 5-crore project funded by the NIH. “As we have received funding before the shutdown until April, there is no worry. The NIH gives grants in advance and we get them quarterly,” said Dr N Khandelwal, head of the radio diagnosis department at PGIMER.
 
 
