CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday confirmed the bail granted to Dr  , one of the accused involved in castration of   (DSS) followers along with dera chief  .

 The 45-year-old Panchkula-based surgeon was on an interim bail. With this, he would have to face prosecution before the special CBI court in Panchkula but his arrest would be stayed unless the premier investigation agency challenges these orders.
 
 In his plea for bail, Garg had argued that he committed no offence and allegations in this case had been leveled after a delay of 12 years without any explanation. “Allegations in the FIR are vague and not even supported by any documentary evidence despite lengthy investigation by the CBI. Allegations in the FIR are also contradictory to investigation carried out by the agency. It may be case of suffering of hurt, not causing of hurt,” Garg had argued, pleading innocence.
 
 Claiming that he was a well-known surgeon, Garg submitted that he had fully cooperated with the CBI during the investigation of the case and made himself available to the investigation agency, whenever he was called. He also claimed that he had appeared before the CBI on three occasions in the past three years when the case was being probed by it.
 
 On February 1, 2018, the CBI had submitted chargesheet before the special CBI court in Panchkula against dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and two doctors, Pankaj Garg and M P Singh in relation to the castration of followers inside the dera.
 
 As per the chargesheet, a large number of followers were castrated at the behest of the dera chief by Dr Garg and Dr Singh. While Gurmeet and Dr Singh were already behind bars in relation to other offences, Dr Garg, a resident of Sector 15 Panchkula, was never arrested.
 
 They have been charged under section 326 (Voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 417 (cheating) of the IPC.
 
 The trial of the case is on at the special CBI court in Panchkula.
 
 
