My work is such that, it is uncertain if I will live to see my children again, till I return home in the evening. Now I don’t even have that work also and we are starving,” says M Malarvizhi from Meenampatti, 3km away from  , which is called as ‘mini-Japan’ owing to the amount of industrial activities happening in this arid town in Virudhunagar district.

 Fireworks factories in and around Sivakasi, the backbone of industries in the town, have launched an indefinite closure since December 26, demanding an amendment to the Environment Protection Act exempting their produce from its purview. They also wanted a hearing by the   of a petition seeking a series of steps to curb air pollution, including ban on sale, possession and bursting of firecrackers across the country.
 
 Running without income for the 25th day, the public mood is quite strained and agitated. At  , the twin town of Sivakasi, around 200 workers under CITU (Centre for Indian Trade Unions) staged a protest at the railway station and were arrested by police. “I don’t have money to buy even milk for my children. It is very painful when one can’t provide food for the children,” says  , a labourer in fireworks units around Sivakasi for over 18 years.
 
 Apparently, the workers are angry and frustrated against the state and central governments for turning a blind eye towards them. “Transport workers strike was all over the news and state government was pleading them for talks. Aren’t we also human beings and people of this state who voted for this government?” asks an emotionally charged   in her fifties at Anuppankulam.
 
 The mood is no different at Thiruthangal where a large number of workers have gathered after a rail roko was announced. “There is a state minister from Sivakasi constituency and we have a member of Parliament. None of them have paid any attention to this crisis,” rues A Karuppasamy at Thiruthangal. “When we are starving, the MLAs want a hike in their pay and benefits,” he charged.
 
 For Sivakasi, strike and labour protests are something new. For the last many decades industrial activities have been continuing smooth in the industrial town. But the trouble, according to the workers, started with demonetisation in November 2016, when the industry had to close down due to cash crunch. The next blow came in July 2017 in the form of 28% GST, the highest slab. The industry announced indefinite strike following GST implementation. Trouble brewed again last October, when Supreme Court banned the sale of firecrackers in Delhi and NCR, and the industry felt the heat.
 
 The final blow came when the SC started hearing the case on banning fireworks across the country. The factories did not receive any orders from the dealers in North India leading to closure of the industry. For the manufacturers, they are losing out the working days of fireworks since December and January have perfect climate for fireworks production. “These are perfect days for production. But we are crippled and eagerly anticipating some solution from governments,” said  , owner of Sri Aruna Fireworks at Iluppaikulam.
 
