RAJKOT: Three teenage girls were killed and 21 others injured after a massive fire broke out in the tents of girls’ section of Rashtra Katha Shibir at Parsla village, about 30 km from   town of Rajkot, on Friday midnight, the last day of the camp. On Saturday, all the participants were to leave for their homes.

 Six girls who suffered burns have been shifted to Rajkot Civil Hospital, while 15 others who were facing breathing problem after inhaling smoke from the fire, were admitted to government and private hospitals in Dhoraji, Porbandar and Upleta towns.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that the fire was triggered by a short-circuit in one of the tents when some girls tried to charge their mobile phones using a lamp holder. Learning about the incident, chief minister Vijay Rupani expressed his grief and ordered Rajkot district collector Dr Vikrant Pandey to institute a probe into the fire. The CM also announced compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the families of deceased girls.
 
 “Forensic science experts and officials of Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Limited (PGVCL) along with our investigation team have taken the sample and are investigating if there was any criminal negligence which caused the fire,” Rajkot rural superintendent of police Antrip Sood told TOI. The deceased were identified as Kinjal Arjanbhai Shiyala (14) of   village in Jasadan taluka of Rajkot, Vanita Savsibhai Jamol (16), resident of   village in Sayla taluka of Surendranagar, and Krupali Ashokbhai Dave (14) of Morbi town.
 
 Around 10,000 children between the age group of 13 and 18 years from 26 states across the country were attending the camp at Parsla organized by Swami Dharmabandhu. This is an annual week-long event where participants stay in different tents. Army jawans and officers also take part in this camp. According to the police the fire broke out around midnight on Friday in one of the girl’s tents. Panic struck girl started running for help as nearly 70 tents got gutted in fire within a short time. About 300 girls were rescued by teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans, who were participants at the camp.
 
 Some of eyewitnesses said there was a stampede like situation as the fire was spreading quickly to other tents. One of the injured Khushi admitted to Rajkot hospital said, “We were 20 girls in one tent. At midnight I heard the screaming voices and saw fire in our tent. We ran outside and in hurry some girls fell on the ground and got hurt.”
 
 Rajkot district collector Vikrant Pandey told TOI “We pooled in ambulances and doctors from 15 districts and fire brigade from nearby districts. Since belongings of all the girls in the 70 tents were gutted in fire, we arranged for clothes and blankets for girls.”
 
 “Students who came from  ,   and Jammu and Kashmir were sent to Ahmedabad and from there they will be sent to their respective destinations,” Pandey added.
 
 The Rashtra Katha Shibir is being organized since last two decades in Parsla village of Upleta. Chief minister Vijay Rupani had attended the inaugural function this year, while Union home minister   had addressed the children on Thursday.
 
 
