BENGALURU: Barely a week after   president   called for more women candidates in the assembly elections, chief minister   on Friday admitted that it was not possible to give more than 10% of party tickets to women.

 Rahul, while addressing a Stree Shakthi convention in   on February 25, had asked Siddaramaiah and   president G Parameshwara to ensure more Congress women are in the fray.
 
 But Siddaramaiah, while addressing WOW: Women of Worth, a convention for entrepreneur women, said, “It is easy to say the party should field more women candidates in the assembly elections, but it is practically impossible unless 33% reservation is given to women in Parliament and legislatures. Given the current situation, we can give 5% or 6% tickets to women. At the most it can go up to 10%, but not beyond that.”
 
 Women entrepreneurs from across the state are participating in the two-day convention, organized by chief secretary Ratna Prabha to celebrate the achievements of women. Entrepreneurs have erected about 140 stalls to exhibit their products and about 20 women achievers were felicitated.
 
 However, the chief minister admitted that unless women are politically empowered they “will not get social justice”. “Women being economically empowered is one thing,” he said. “But unless they are politically empowered they cannot get justice. Women should fight to get representation in Parliament and state legislatures.”
 
 Pointing out that the Women’s Reservation Bill — which envisages 33 % reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies — is pending since 1996, Siddarmaiah said the need of the hour is to give women political reservation.
 
 “We get to see more women members than men in panchayats and local bodies such as the BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike), but that is because 50% seats are reserved for them,” he said. “Without such legislation in place, we cannot see more women candidates in elections. The imbalance will continue.”
 
 The CM also laid foundation stones to three women business parks proposed to develop in Mysuru, Harohalli in Kanakapura and Kudithini in Ballary.
 
