PANAJI: The Supreme Court’s February 7 order quashing the renewal of 88 leases, brought the curtains down on mining in the state on Thursday evening.

 Director of mines   told TOI that while “no iron ore can be transported from within leases from Friday” ore dumped outside leases can be exported. The mines department has issued separate instructions to the Goa Police and leaseholders to ensure that mining operations are brought to a standstill by midnight on Thursday, as per the SC order.
 
 Around 11million tonnes of iron ore have been mined so far as against the apex court extraction cap of 20 million tonnes per annum.
 
 Union minister Nitin   will arrive in Goa on Tuesday to gauge the impact of mining closure in the state, PWD minister and cabinet advisory committee member Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said, adding that Gadkari will listen to the grievances of mining belt MLAs, mining dependants and banks.
 
 There has been a flurry of activity over the past five days as the BJP came under pressure from its own MLAs from the mining belt, besides mining dependants, to find a solution to the imbroglio. Curchorem legislator Nilesh Cabral was very critical about the fact that the state government had not acted in time to approach the Centre or move the   for relief.
 
 On Wednesday, CAC members—Dhavalikar, TCP minister   and urban development minister Francis D’Souza—resolved to approach the apex court to allow resumption of mining activities for at least some months, considering that the industry is the backbone of Goa’s economy, till alternative arrangements are made.
 
 A day after the SC judgment, chief minister   had said the state government would not file a review petition and instead “explore all possible options, including the auction of mine leases”.
 
 State advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande, whose legal opinion Parrikar sought, said the state has “no other option other than the auction route” and that “it will be a completely useless exercise to make any attempt to file a curative or review petition before the Supreme Court”.
 
 “Since the ore bodies from mines shall be exposed, there is likelihood that such ore may be subject to theft after March 16 until proper security arrangements are put in place,” the directorate of mines stated in its communication to the Goa Police and leaseholders, requesting them to continue security arrangements at the leases at least till March 31 or until “such arrangements are put in place by the state government”.
 
