NEW DELHI: A highly-decomposed body of a man was found inside the   of   on February 9 during a routine inspection of tracks. The body, presumed to be lying there for over three months, was found in an emergency shaft that leads to the ground level between the New Delhi and Shivaji Stadium stations.

 The shaft, meant for evacuation of passengers in case of an emergency, remains unmanned and is not a part of the operational area. It’s not clear how the man reached the spot as this line is a highly-secured corridor. Reaching the tunnel from the station is not possible due to platform screen doors.
 
 CISF personnel pulled out the body and informed Delhi Police, who have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 CrPC. A preliminary probe suggests that the man could be a vagabond and had entered the shaft to escape from the cold. The possibility of someone dumping the body has not been ruled out.
 
 Police have confirmed that the man was not a Delhi Metro staffer or a passenger. Also, no missing complaint was found registered in the area. “We have preserved the body for identification. No one has approached us so far. The body had rags wrapped around it,” said DCP (metro) Pankaj Singh.
 
 Emergency shafts are built in underground sections when the distance between two stations is nearly two kilometres. “Similar shafts are present in other tunnels, like the one between Central Secretariat and Khan Market metro stations,” said a Delhi Metro official.
 
 The official added, “The emergency exit can only be accessed from inside the tunnel. Detection of the body was difficult as access to the area is through the ground level, which remains cordoned off.”
 
 Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which mans metro stations across the NCR, said it is possible that the shaft leading to the tunnel may have been left open by a DMRC cleaning or maintenance staffer and the man may have come down through it.
 
 While it is not in their mandate to man these emergency tunnel exits, they regularly sweep the tunnel entrances each morning, an official said.
 
 “We suspect that the person may have been homeless or a drug addict and entered through the shaft after it may have been left open by a DMRC staffer by accident. The person wasn’t able to reach the tunnel as that door was locked,” said a CISF official, adding they will meet DMRC to discuss the issue of such unmanned exits.
 
 
