JOHANNESBURG: In a display of what not to do on Day One of a Test, especially when facing a bowling attack in conditions they know best, the Indian batting line-up gave a masterclass of all that could've bordered on the absurd.

 
 
 The world's No 1 Test team won the toss here at the Bullring, elected to bat first and failed to put even 200 runs on board before succumbing to some ridiculous cricketing shots against a very disciplined bowling side. Limping their way to a 187, of which a good 134 came only from skipper   (54),   (50) and  's (30), the rest of the Indian batting line-up spent the better part of Wednesday sitting inside the dressing room.
 
 
 
 That included openers   and KL Rahul,   at No. 5, Parthiv Patel at No. 6 and   at No. 7 who collectively managed 19 runs between them.
 
 
 
 Kumar, who walked in to bat at No. 8 and scored 30 runs off 49 balls, helped India stretch their first innings total to the extent they eventually did before South Africa walked in to bat.
 
 Coming into this Test match, the Indian team management had told TOI that the   will spell out loud and clear where the immediate careers of some of these cricketers stand in the game's longer format.
 
 Winning the toss and electing to bat first on this wicket, despite having picked five pacers, was still the right decision. Johannesburg witnessed heavy showers on match eve and while the day began bright, more showers are the forecast for most part of this week. As Pujara puts it, the pitch can only be expected to get more difficult going into Day Two and Three.
 
  
  
 The wicket notwithstanding, the decision to bat first showed Kohli's intent to step out and put runs on the board and for a team collectively struggling to score, the opportunity was just right. Kohli once again went about his job in brisk fashion. The skipper took his share of risks and survived twice. At the other end, Pujara played a game of extreme patience - a gigantic effort given the kind of disappointments he's had on this tour - but failed to convert the knock into a big one after he looked settled.
 
 India could have certainly taken more advantage of South Africa's erratic spells in patches. An overtly cautious Pujara at times stayed away from even punishing the deliveries he could have. To put his effort in perspective, the entire Indian team spent close to mere half the time that Pujara spent in the middle, bringing about the most exciting phase of the day's contest.
 
 A total of 83 overs got bowled here before bad light brought an early end to the day's play and the hosts lost a wicket to the fine movement that Bhuvneshwar Kumar managed in the six overs South Africa batted.  ' team is 181 runs behind India with nine wickets in hand. 
 
