Buttayigudem (WG): Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, who inaugurated the   Reservoir at Chintalagudem village of Buttayagudem mandal on Monday, said the rapidly depleting   tables in   district are a huge concern. He said the groundwater levels here are lower than those in Rayalaseema, and asked people to take up water harvesting initiatives.

 There are only three mandals in the district where the groundwater level is at 3 metres, 11 mandals with water level at 5 metres, 14 mandals with 12 metres, and 4 with water at 16 metres. The district has over 20 mandals where the level is at 20 metres or below, which is a big concern, the CM said. The decline in the groundwater tables poses a threat to agriculture and drinking water availability. The CM said people should partner the government in water harvesting.
 
 The Pogonda Reservoir is constructed across the Byneru river at a cost of Rs 129 crore. The reservoir is aimed at providing irrigation water to about 10,000 acres of land, benefiting more than 2,600 tribal families.
 
 The Pogonda Reservoir is the third irrigation project to be inaugurated by the CM in his four years in office in this term, after Pattiseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (PLIS) and Kovvada outfall sluice. The Pogonda Reservior, across Baineru Rivulet, has been constructed with an estimated cost of Rs 129 crore to supply water to 4,000 acres of ayacut and stabilization of 3,652 acres of ayacut.
 
 Naidu, however, expressed concern over the   groundwater tables in West Godavari district. He said the groundwater levels here were lower than that of Rayalaseema, and asked people to take up water harvesting initiatives.
 
 The steep fall in the average rainfall in the sate is one of the reasons for the decline of groundwater levels, he said. There are 152 mandals in the state where the groundwater level is at 3 metres, while there are 51 mandals with levels below 20 metres. The groundwater tables in the remaining mandals varies between 5 and 20 metres, he said.
 
 Completion of Polavaram project by end of 2019: CM
 
 Vijayawada: Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, during his visit to the Polavaram project on Monday, said it will be completed by December 2019. 
 
 The chief minister said the state government has spent Rs 13,000 crore on the project till now, including Rs 7,810 crore, which were spent after the Centre declared Polavaram a national project, and the Centre is yet to reimburse Rs 3,000 crore for it. He said that 71% spill way and spill channel works, 14% concrete works, 89% diaphragm wall works, and 50% radial gates works have been completed.
 
 The CM interacted with officials and representatives of the contractors. He said the government wanted to provide water to Krishna delta from Polavaram by gravitation from this year, but could not complete the work because of unavoidable reasons. He said the government is now working to provide water by using gravity by 2019, and complete the project by December 2019.
 
 Minister for water resources Devineni Umamaheswara Rao, government whip Chintamaneni Prabhakar, Eluru MP Maganti Venkateswara Rao, Rajya Sabha member Tota Sitaramalakshmi, MLAs M Srinivasa Rao and M Venkateswara Rao, district collector K Bhaskar, water resources principal secretary Shashi Bhushan, and West Godavari ZP chairman K Jayaraju were present during the visit.
 
 
