CHANDIGARH: Three masked person broke into Shri Sanatan Dharam Temple in Sector 16, Chandigarh, and decamped with cash and ornaments worth Rs 5 lakh on late Thursday night. Before committing the crime, the accused locked the priest inside his room and disconnected   cameras. On the statement of the priest Sector 17 police has registered a case and started investigation. Police suspects involvement of the same gang that had committed theft at   temple last month.

 According to temple priest Vijender, the accused decamped with seven silver crowns, one silver chhatr weighing around 1.25 kg, one small gold chhatr, 2 gold nose rings, 2 gold tikkas and silver kavach from the Shiva temple. They also took around Rs 50,000 from the donation box of the temple, he added.
 
 
 Temple officials said that the accused had cut the wires of CCTV cameras before committing the crime but forgot to disconnect one CCTV camera that showed that three masked persons had entered in the temple at 1.20 am and fled with cash and jewellery at 1.40 am. At that time two priests, who resided on temple premises with their families, failed to hear anything. The incident came into light when the priest woke up to answer nature’s call at around 2 am and found that his room was locked from the outside. Vijender called up another priest and told him to open the door.
 
 When he came out of his room, they found that locks of the main temple were broken and doors were ajar. It was also found that the donation box within the temple was also broken and cash was missing from it. Immediately they informed the police about the incident and cops from Sector 17 police station reached the spot. Dog squad and forensic team were also called up on the crime scene. Forensic teams have collected finger prints for examination. Police believe that the theft took place in the similar manner as Saketri temple, which was burgled last month.
 
 Maninder Singh, SHO of Sector 17 police station, said that a theft case had been registered against unknown persons and scrutinizing of the CCTV footage of temple was being done. However as the accused had covered their faces, it would be difficult to identify them, the SHO added.
 
 On February 20, 2017, six masked miscreants had decamped with gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 30 lakh from six temples located inside the main complex at   in Saketri. The accused are yet to be and the case remains unsolved. Earlier on January 9, five masked persons had stolen silver ornaments worth Rs 3 lakh from a temple in Sector 24. The accused took away valuables, including a silver sheet weighing 6kg, three silver crowns (each weighing 1.5kg), and idols made of brass from the temple.
 
