AHMEDABAD: Programme for Identification and Arrest of Criminals ( ), which has the data of about 4 lakh persons having   across the state, is now at the fingertips of the police. 

 The data which was till now downloaded on the desktops of all   and security agencies under the E-Guj Cop, has been converted into an mobile application and is all set to hit the cellphones of cops to identify and verify criminals on the spot.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said the data containing recent pictures and addresses and the modus operandi of the criminals was compiled by the city   and replicated across the state.
 
 “We have made a mobile application of the data. During a meeting held at the crime branch on Friday with the city police chief A K Singh, the application was displayed. The police commissioner has approved the programme and very soon the application will be there to be downloaded by the city cops,” Bhadran said.
 
 Bhadran said a cop present at the scene of crime just has to put the type of crime and click on the MCR button. “Accused booked for committing offences with the same modus operandi will appear on the mobile screen. The cop can show photos of the accused to the victim and easily identify the person involved in the crime within minutes,” he added.
 
 Bhadran said the other important feature of the application is ‘Track Option’. “We have documented recent addresses in PINAC. By clicking on the ‘Track Option’, the officer on field duty would know the exact location of the accused,” Bhadran said. The application enables the officer on duty to lead the investigating team to a particular address and if the cop in within 15 metres of the location shown in the application, a green tick would appear confirming that the cops is near the location and also help his superiors that the police had actually visited the location.
 
 The application will also help senior cops ascertain that their subordinates are doing their duty properly or not. “During a particular drive, say a combing operation, if a cop tracks and verifies a person with criminal record at his address, a green tick would appear against his name that would be a proof that the cop was on duty and not spinning tales,” added Bhadran.
 
 
