NAGPUR: Contacting a goon’s girlfriend would have cost   his life had not bystanders in the porch of a posh hotel in   raised an alarm.

 Bijwar was allegedly attacked early hours of Friday by a goon Saurabh Dhage who had earlier threatened him. Dhage has several offences against him at various police stations including a 2011 murder case at   police station. Around eight months ago, Dhage had threatened Bijwar as he was working with another woman DJ who had a relation with the goon then. It was also reliably learnt Dhage is also an office bearer of the youth wing of a political party.
 
 Bijwar, associated as DJ with several hotels and clubs in city, sustained a deep gash near the waist on the left side after being stabbed by a person accompanying Dhage. It has come to fore that Dhage had either assaulted or threatened DJs like Bijwar, who he thought were getting close to his present or past women friends.
 
 Sources claimed Dhage and his gang that targeted Bijwar routinely frequent Ramdaspeth late in evening and remain there till the early hours of the day. Most of the activities of the gang revolve around a ‘poha’ stall that operates through the midnight here. He had threatened some passers-by and picked up quarrels with them, it is learnt.
 
 Bijwar said Dhage had made a call to him when he was working inside the hotel. “He (Dhage) had threatened me in the past for working with a woman DJ in whom he had an interest. I had since distanced myself from the woman,” he said. “Now, I had contacted some woman DJs in the town for programmes in March. One of them wanted to work with me. I had no idea she too is attached to Dhage,” said Bijwar who is being treated in a private hospital.
 
 Bijwar had just walked out of the hotel after he had received a call from Dhage suspecting nothing foul but was left stunned when he got pinned down by him and his gang. “I am told that around eight persons had come in a car. They started beating me without me realizing the reason. Suddenly one accompanying Dhage stabbed me,” he said. “I was fortunate not to have left the hotel premises or else could have been murdered,” said Dhage who was brought to hospital by hotel staffers. 
 
 An offence has been registered against Dhage and others at Sitabuldi police station. Name of one Anshu Awasthi too has come to fore for being with Dhage. Senior PI   said the cops are trying to nab the culprits.
 
 
