NAGPUR: Apang Seva Niketan, an NGO in Dhantoli run by  , has employed 12 physically-challenged men and women hailing from nearby localities to make paper   that can help save and protect environment.

 Each month, the NGO makes about 70,000 to 1 lakh paper bags and 200 to 500 cloth bags and, depending on the size, the bags are priced from Rs5 to Rs15.
 
 “The idea is to replace plastic bags with cloth or paper bags in shops and stores and also to help disabled people lead independent lives,” said Gadre.
 
 Chavikala Mendhe, who is associated with the Swachh Association, along with five other women from   locality, have been stitching cloth bags since the last one year. According to Mendhe, they are getting a good response.
 
 The Centre For Sustainable Development, Eco-Friendly Living Foundation and Mahatma Bahuddeshiya Sanstha too are working to promote eco-friendly bags. They promote cloth bags in gardens. 
 
 On Saturday, these NGOs with the help of women SHGs sold cloth bags. “We also appeal to citizens to donate old bedsheets, curtains, table cloths for stitching cloth bags,” said Annu Chhabrani of Swachh Association. 
 
 The chairperson of NMC’s women and children welfare (WCW) department and senior BJP corporator  , who too is working with many NGOs on various environment issues, said that the department and the civic body’s market department will soon involve self-help groups for cloth bags for its market.
 
 “The WCW department is in touch with a number of women self-help groups who will directly provide cloth or paper bags in market,” Patil said. 
 
 She added that the civic body will not buy or take bags from these SHGs but will ask shop owners to buy. “It is not practical for NMC to buy cloth bags and distribute in the market. The NMC will provide a platform for SHGs and shops to promote cloth bags in the market,” she said.
 
 Green activist and founder of Green Vigil Foundation Kaustav   welcomed the state government ban on plastic. “But it needs a proper road map for implementation. It is still not clear whether the ban is on plastic with less than 50 microns or if it is a blanket ban,” he said.
 
 
