PALAKKAD: Indian Medical Association (IMA) leaders have said that all government and private hospitals might have to down their shutters as the IMAGE plant at   in   cannot handle the state’s entire medical waste.

 They said Centre’s biomedical waste management rules (2016) prohibits transportation of biomedical waste beyond 75 km. But, on an average 40 tonnes of biomedical waste from 8,000 private hospitals and 2,200 government hospitals are brought to Malampuzha for processing each day.
 
 IMAGE vice-chairman Dr RC Sreekumar said if the provisions of Central Act are enforced, then the plant can process waste only from Thrissur and  . “This means closing down all hospitals and clinics in other districts. That is why IMA planned to start such plants in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi and had bought land six years ago. It is the duty of the state government to provide waste management facilities to hospitals.   has ordered the setting up of common waste management facility and closure of existing individual hospital waste management facilities in some medical colleges in state,” he said.
 
 Founder-chairman of IMAGE plant Dr Chandrasekhar said: “IMA decided to start four biomedical waste management plants in four major centres across Kerala accepting the request of the state government. The first plant was commissioned on December 14, 2003. Though land was bought at Palode in Thiruvananthapuram and government allotted land in Kochi, the plants were not built. Now, entire biomedical waste of Kerala is processed at Malampuzha.”
 
 He said modern technology is used at the plant. Segregated waste in containers is collected from hospitals and transported in containers and bags to the plant. There is a two-stage incinerator whose capacity is 180kg/hour capacity. Autoclaves are there for sterilizing waste.
 
 There is a treatment plant for effluents also. Water from incinerators and floor washing is brought to the treatment plant and used for watering plants and the garden. No effluents are let out causing pollution to waterbodies or nearby areas, he added.
 
 But, farmers and various environmentalist organizations like   wanted to close down the plant from the very beginning fearing that the seepage of waste water from the plant would pollute Malampuzha reservoir that supplies drinking water to Palakkad municipality and six adjoining grama panchayats.
 
