VADODARA/ ANAND: Only those countries where youngsters can sense the change to lead will be successful in years to come. This is what former chairman of   ( ) Dr K Kasturirangan said on Wednesday. 

 The Padma Vibhushan recipient, who also heads the panel appointed by human resource development ministry for drafting the new national education policy was addressing the 60th annual convocation of Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University (SPU) in Anand, as the chief guest. 
 
 “India is already the seventh largest economy in the world when measured by nominal GDP. With a sustained growth rate of 8% it is expected that by 2050 or perhaps even earlier, our share of world GDP will increase to about 6% amounting to more than $10 trillion and could surpass Japan to become the third largest economy in the world,” he said while addressing a gathering of students, parents and SPU officials at the convocation ceremony which was presided over by   governor O P Kohli, who is also chancellor of the university. 
 
 “India with such a large economy coupled with the advantage of size, population and resources should witness accelerated all round growth in the coming years. Further, in order to capitalize its demographic dividend, we need to create an environment conducive to the growth of economy which ensures sufficient expansion in good quality employment opportunities,” he said, stressing that only those countries will be successful where its youngsters can sense the change to lead. 
 
 He added that in the context of national growth, the focus on productivity enhancing elements, driven by science and technology (S&T) and especially those that flow from human capital, organisational structures and innovative approaches to solving problems will be of great importance.
 
 He lauded   as Gujarat’s educational hub which he said has an average literacy rate of 90.70 % much higher than the national average of 74.04 %. 
 
 A total of 116   medals were conferred during the convocation ceremony. With 11,921 students being conferred degrees this year, the total number of degrees awarded by the university since its inception has touched 2,79,734.
 
 
