NEW DELHI: In an unusual step, the   on Thursday facilitated urgent hearing in Delhi high court on  's plea seeking protection from possible arrest by the   in a money laundering case within 24 hours of the plea being filed.

 
 "Having heard counsel for parties, we think it appropriate to permit the petitioner in terms of the request made before this court, to approach the   in appropriate jurisdiction in the course of the day (Thursday itself). We would request the chief justice of the HC to allocate the matter to a bench that would deal with the matter preferably on March 9 (Friday). If the petitioner files an application for interim relief, we request the bench that is going to be constituted to deal with the same in accordance with law," a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud said.
 
 After a heated debate, with senior advocates   and A M Singhvi battling it out for Karti and facing opposition from additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who said he was ready to meet allegations of malafide prosecution and political vendetta with evidence on record about money trail. Karti's counsel told the SC that the accused would happily withdraw the petition to move the Delhi HC if he was protected from arrest in the interim period.
 
 The SC has traditionally disposed of petitions from counsel seeking to withdraw a case from the apex court in order to move the HC concerned with a terse ‘dismissed as withdrawn' order. Indeed, it refuses to even record the counsel's submission that he would move the HC. "You do whatever is permitted in law. We will not give you legal advice," has been the standard refrain of SC benches dealing with such cases. 
 
 The indulgence towards Karti, with the SC not only permitting hearing on his anticipatory bail plea within 24 hours of it getting filed in the HC but also requesting the HC bench to immediately deal with the prayer for interim relief, stood out and made Mehta wonder aloud before the court, "Would an ordinary criminal facing money laundering charges get such treatment?"
 
 Mehta asked the bench whether any ordinary person would be permitted to file a petition under Article 32 in the SC claiming his fundamental rights were being violated but in essence seeking anticipatory bail? 
 
 "If such a relief is granted, then every day at least 50 Article 32 petitions will be filed by persons accused under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to seek anticipatory bail. What message will it send?" the law officer asked.
 
 
 Sibal attempted to give the issue a political colour by reminding Mehta that the SC had quashed an FIR against   chief Amit Shah. Mehta corrected him by saying the SC had only quashed a second FIR that was registered in a case (Tulsiram Prajapati encounter case) which the probe agency had earlier told the SC to be part of another case (Sohrabuddin Sheikh fake encounter case).
 
 Sibal's allegation that the law officer was dictating what the SC should did not go down well with CJI Misra, who ticked off Sibal. "I take exception to your statement," the CJI said. 
 
 Finding an opening, Mehta said, "It is not in good taste." But only after the SC dictated the order facilitating urgent hearing on Karti's petition in Delhi HC did Sibal say ‘sorry', but qualified it by saying he was upset with the way things were moving in this case.
 
 
