NEW DELHI/KATHMANDU: Congress on Saturday accused Prime Minister   of timing his temple visit in Nepal to coincide with voting in Karnataka, saying his schedule was aimed at influencing the mandate in the crucial southern state.

 
 As Modi visited the revered Pashupatinath and   temples, AICC general secretary   said, "This is not a good tradition in a democracy. In Gujarat, he held a road show after voting. Today, he has adopted a new path. When Karnataka is polling, he has gone to Nepal and is worshipping in temples there, as he could not do so in the southern state due to elections."
 
 Foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale, who was in Kathmandu along with PM Modi, refuted Gehlot's charge when he was asked about it by reporters. He said Modi's visit was discussed with his Nepalese counterpart on February 12 when the former called K P Oli to congratulate him on his victory. "When PM Modi had telephoned Prime Minister Oli upon his election as the Prime Minister of Nepal, they had discussed the visit then. Prime Minister Oli had then expressed his desire for an early visit by Prime Minister Modi. They had discussed the visits, and the Prime Minister(Modi) had said you (Oli) come first."
 
 "So that's how the sequence has been, first Prime Minister Oli visited India and now PM( Modi) is in Nepal," PTI quoted Gohale saying.
 
 Asked about the PM's itinerary coinciding with the Karnataka polls, Gokhale said: "Whenever state visits take place, they are decided as per the convenience of the two nations. No one Prime Minister alone can say that it will come at this time."
 
 Gehlot, who has emerged as a key aide to Rahul Gandhi and accompanied the Congress chief to several temples during the Gujarat polls, had brushed aside the suggestion that the dates of visits of heads of governments are worked out months in advance, insisting that Nepal visit was timed to coincide with the Karnataka polls. He complained that the PM's temple visit in Nepal was being broadcast on television channels during the voting and suggested a violation of the model code of conduct.
 
  
 The former Rajasthan CM also said Modi was trying to send out a message that he was a religious Hindu."If one asks him (Modi), no other person is Hindu, except people in   and RSS and him and Amit Shah," he said.
 
 Interestingly, the criticism came just a few days after Congress chief said the growing frequency of his temple visits are bothering BJP.
 
 Modi had also offered prayers at   when he visited Nepal in 2014, his first visit to the neighbouring country after taking over as PM.
 
