MADURAI: Trade and industry in Madurai have termed the union   all-inclusive and growth-oriented, which had been drafted after an analytical study of every sector and having revolutionary schemes.

  Chamber of Commerce and Industry president   and senior president   said that the total allotment of Rs 14.34 lakh crore for the growth of rural economy and agriculture would have a positive impact on the livelihood in rural areas. Prioritising the enhancement of farmers’ income was also welcome, but it should be noted that 86 per cent of the land holding farmers were small and marginal. The finance minister ought to have invented a novel idea of corporatisation of farming on at least 100 acres of land at a stretch removing the ridges to deploy modern scientific farming methods and thereby increasing productivity on par with international standards. Allocation of Rs 1,400 crore for the food processing sector would spur the growth of this sector.
 
 Welcoming the announcements for MSMEs in the budget, president,   and Small Scale Industries Association, K P Murugan, said that provision of Rs 3,794 crore for the sector in the budget for giving credit support, capital and interest subsidy for innovations was praiseworthy. The decision to extend the benefit of reduced income tax rate of 25 per cent to companies with reported turnover of Rs 250 crore in a financial year would provide a boost to this sector as it provided 70 per cent of industrial employments in the country, he said.
 
 However, obtaining loans above Rs 50,000 under the Mudra Yojna still continued to be a problem for the MSME sector, as the sanctioning authority could be held responsible for unrepaid loans. If a team was constituted to act as the sanctioning authority, instead of a single officer, availing of these loans could be made easy, he has said. The proposed 42 food parks at a cost of Rs 750 crore would definitely help to do away with middlemen, and benefit the producers. MADITSSIA has urged the central government to set up four of these parks in Madurai, Tirunelveli, Erode and Dharmapuri in Tamil Nadu.
 
 It was disappointing that no announcement was made for the much-awaited AIIMS for southern Tamil Nadu, the industry has said. Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association president S P Jeyaprakasam said that the business and manufacturing sector would suffer if the glitches in the GST portal were not addressed and made simple. Not raising the threshold limit for individual income tax from Rs 2.5 lakhs to Rs 5 lakhs as promised by the prime minister in his poll campaign was disappointing.
 
 
