Bathinda: The idea to help cotton growers of Malwa region of Punjab by getting the cotton grown by them to the foreign shores has failed to take off even four years after the then BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi had proposed it in state. Malwa’s cotton growers and ginning factory owners had hopes that the Modi government might remember his promise at least in the last full-fledged budget before the parliamentary elections in 2019. 

 In April 2014, Modi had at a massive rally at Bathinda had given ‘5F’ formula: Farm to Fibre; Fibre to Fabric; Fabric to Fashion; and, Fashion to Foreign. Cotton growing, cloth and garment manufacturing and export of readymade garments would all be done from the same place, he had said while canvassing for SAD-BJP candidate Harsimrat Badal. She had taken it beyond with promises of setting up a textile park in cotton belt. All this turned hollow, farmers say now.
 
 Cotton has been sown in 3.82 lakh hectares in Punjab. Nearly 11 lakh bales (one bale=170kg) are expected to be produced. It is fetching the price of Rs 5,100-5,200 per quintal.
 
 “Only a year into the Modi government, the cotton belt witnessed the worst crisis in many years in September-October 2015 when nearly 60% of cotton crop was damaged due to whitefly attack. The Union government failed to provide any solace to growers. Some growers even took the path of suicides,” recalls cotton grower Kulwant Singh of village Kot Shamir.
 
 The growers were made to face the crisis as the leaders of the coalition government in the state and officials in agriculture department were accused of minting money in league with pesticides companies. “We had managed to put the crisis behind and grew hopeful that now the Modi government will do something but all this proved hollow,” says another grower Mohinder Singh of village Sangat in Bathinda.
 
 “The hopes of those running cotton ginning factories were revived with promises made by none other than the would-be PM and was repeated by now Union food processing minister Hasimrat Badal. But the reality today is that the ginning factories, of which there were 422 in 2007, have reduced to 52 today. These factories were employing over 35,000 people. This number is now down to nearly 4,000,” says Punjab cotton and ginning factories association activist Bhagwan Dass Bansal.
 
 The promise was relegated to backburner even during first interim budget presented by Arun Jaitley on July 10, 2014, when he had failed to include Punjab while announcing eight textiles mega clusters at Varanasi, Bareily, Lucknow, Surat, Kutch, Bhagalpur, Mysore and in Tamilnadu, Bansal adds.
 
 “Badal had claimed that the Union textiles ministry had in-principle approved opening of two textile skill centres in Bathinda where 15,000 women would be provided training in various vocations for turning fibre to fabric and fashion. They would get jobs in the upcoming textiles park in the area but all this turned into not more than political ‘jumlebazi’,” says farmer organisation BKU Dakonda state president Buta Singh Burjgill.
 
 Textiles industry Vardhman Textiles’ director (raw material) I J Dhuria agrees that not much could be done in Punjab to help cotton growers and revive ginning factories though much has been done in Gujrat, Maharashtra, MP and other states. The cotton growers and ginners would have benefitted immensely had the promised textile park been set up in Malwa region, he adds.
 
 
