PUNE: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim anticipatory bail to Hindutva leader   till February 20 in connection with the January 1 violence at  . 

 Ekbote, who is untraceable ever since his attempts to secure anticipatory bail from the trial court in Pune and later from the   failed, will now have to appear before the investigators and cooperate with the probe in accordance with the SC’s interim relief order. “It is directed that till February 20 in case the petitioner (Ekbote) is arrested in connection with CR No 09/2018 registered at Shikrapur police station,then he shall be released on bail on execution of bonds of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties of the like amount, by way of an interim measure,” the bench of Justice Kurian Joseph and Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar said in the order. “However, we make it clear that this is subject to the conditions under Section 438 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the petitioner shall cooperate with the investigation,” the order stated.
 
 Section 438 (2) of the CrPC provides that a person, who is granted bail, shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required. It restrains such a person from directly or indirectly making any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer and from leaving India without the court’s permission. 
 
 The apex court was hearing a special leave petition filed by Ekbote against the Bombay high court’s order of February 2 that dismissed his criminal appeal against the rejection of his anticipatory bail plea by the Pune sessions court on January 22. 
 
 Senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi appeared for Ekbote while lawyer Prateek R Bombarde appeared and submitted that he may be permitted to file an intervention application on behalf of the victim Sanjay Ramesh Bhalerao. The SC granted Bombarde two days time to file the application and also directed notices, returnable by February 20, to the Maharashtra government and the intervenor.
 
 On January 1, one person was killed and property was damaged around Koregaon Bhima where Dalits had gathered to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the British-Peshwa battle.
 
 
