CHENNAI: In a damming disclosure to the Madras high court, the   has said a confidential note written by it in the multi-crore gutkha scam was recovered from   leader  's room in former   chief minister  's house in Poes Garden here. The Poes Garden residence - - named Veda Nilayam - - came under I-T searches in November last. 

 The I-T department's letter had been forwarded through the then DGP to the then chief minister Jayalalithaa but was found and seized from a room occupied by Sasikala. 
 
 "During a search conducted by the department on November 17, 2017 in the rooms occupied by Sasikala in Veda Nilayam, a note dated September 2, 2016 signed by the then DGP addressed to the then chief minister enclosing copies of secret letter dated August 11, 2016 addressed by then principal director of income tax department to DGP in connection with the   was found and seized," said Suise Babu Varghese, the present principal director of the department, Chennai, through an affidavit filed in the court. 
 
 Varghese made the submissions in a PIL filed by DMK legislator J Anbazhagan seeking a CBI probe into the alleged gutka scam. 
 
 The letter dated November 11, 2016 was addressed to both the then chief secretary and the DGP with copies of the relevant accounts from the seized materials and copies of the extracts of sworn statements recorded from Madhava Rao, partner in the gutka company involved in the scam, evidencing payment to various parties connected with the state government, and requesting necessary action against the persons concerned, Varghese added. 
 
 This apart, in the sworn statement, Rao has stated that the payments were made to various official and explained that the abbreviation of 'HM' and 'CP' in the diary seized from the firm denotes health minister and commissioner of police respectively, the officer has said. 
 
 "Madhava Rao in his sworn statement has said that he had paid Rs 56 lakh to the health minister between the period April 1, 2016 and June 15, 2016 for incidental expenses incurred for running the business if manufacture and sale if gutka which is not legally permitted in Tamil Nadu," the affidavit said.
 
 On Friday, since the case had been listed down below, it could not be taken up for hearing. But considering the latest developments and urgency of the issue, senior counsel P Wilson made a mention before the bench requesting it to record the counter and fix a date for the urgent hearing of the case. Acceding to the request, the bench said that the plea would be heard on January 17, at 3.30pm.
 
