Malayalis woke up to their social media feeds flooded with the images of the Adivasi youth   on Friday, tied up and helpless, as one of his attackers took a selfie with him, probably to show the world how ‘heroic’ they were. Madhu was allegedly beaten to death by a group of youngsters in Palakkad, allegedly for stealing. But all that the 27-year-old had in his bag were packets of chilli and coriander powder, a little rice and a phone charger. The video which circulated on social media showed the mob questioning a dazed looking Madhu, as he stood amidst a crowd who jeered and taunted him. 

 Social media fumed and poured out their outrage over the incident, with the general sentiment being that they were ashamed of being called a Malayali. But then, Kerala has been witnessing similar instances of late — when a mentally ill woman was scalded and beaten up by a group of her neighbours, when transgender Chandana was attacked at Valiyathura, when a migrant labourer was beaten up by the mob for alleged child kidnapping in North Kerala being some among them.
 
 Since when did Malayalis start taking law into their hands? Is it because they aren’t aware of the nitty-gritties of the law? Is it because they have lost confidence in the system? Or is it something else? We try to find out...
 
  
  
 
 It has nothing to do with losing confidence in the system, according to human rights activist advocate Maya Krishnan. “In Madhu’s incident, they assumed that an Adivasi living inside the forest cannot possibly have packaged foods and a charger in his bag unless he stole them. Transgender Chandana was attacked because the local people couldn’t accept a gender beyond man and woman. Also a dark woman was branded a kidnapper when a fair-skinned child was found with her. None of these people were doing it to protect society or because they do not trust the State or the system. They just become aggressive when they come across something which is different from their moral views. They strongly believe that what is right and wrong for them should be so for all,” she says, adding that it is high time Malayalis admitted to their prejudices of privilege. “Even the police have notions like: All those in shabby clothes are mentally ill, all long-haired men are druggies etc. We should start accepting that we are not a progressive and secular State,” she adds.
 
 Agreeing with her is psychiatrist CJ John according to whom all of us have a feudal mindset. “We see that in social media as well, where people brand some sections or communities as evil — transgenders, tribals, the mentally ill, migrant labourers etc. The feudalistic attitude is taken out on them. It is in no way a proclamation of our strength but a proclamation of our immaturity and innate cruelty,” he says. 
 
 All human beings have an aggressive side which is kept in check by our moral values and a fear of punishment, adds Dr John. “When a crowd is involved, one person can trigger the aggression. The entire crowd joins to manhandle the one whom they adjudge a criminal. The crowd turns out to be wrong most of the time. There is an increased climate for aggression in Kerala now — be it political murder, domestic violence, or street fights,” he says. 
 And by no means can we brush it off as mob mentality, they say. “The government should strongly intervene and make people realise that it is against the law,” asserts Maya.
 
  
  
 
 Dr John too says that a very clear message has to be given to society that no one has the right to take law into their hands. “The only duty of the general public is to detain an alleged criminal. They have to inform the police and hand him/her over to them. They should be informed that anything beyond that is a crime. And such crimes should be booked. Only then will there be a change in the mentality. Or else, they will consider this as an act of heroism,” he says. 
 According to him, had Madhu not been killed, the incident would have been dismissed as one where a crowd attacked an alleged thief and set the social order right. “Let society realise that it is not heroism but crime and a lack of humanity,” he says.
 
 Throwing light on the legal side of mob violence, academician and researcher Veena Roshan Jose from Kochi says the principle followed in every modern legal system, including India, is that any person charged with a criminal offence will be termed innocent until proven guilty. “This presumption of innocence is the cardinal principle of criminal law. And the proof which is required for punishing a person is proof beyond doubts. Thus a person is just an accused until he is convicted after a fair trial,” she explains. 
 
  
  
 
 Indian law details about the procedure that should be followed in every criminal investigation and trial in the code of criminal procedure. Section 43 of The Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr. P. C) provides for the circumstances in which a private individual can make an arrest and the procedure to be followed on such arrest. "The section permits a private person to make an arrest when a person commits a non-bailable and cognisable offence, or any proclaimed offence in his presence, in the absence of a police officer. He can take such person or cause him to be taken into custody at the nearest police station. Even police officers require a warrant from the magistrate to arrest a person, and can do so without one only if it is a bailable or non-cognisable offence,” she says.
 
 When it comes to a question of civic sense, Veena says the basis of legal education should start from the family itself. “The basis of all legal systems is the concept of natural law. Principles like ‘One shall not harm others’, and ‘one shall not steal’ should be ingrained in one even without a formal teaching of the laws. What is required is a self-imposition. You can learn that only from the family, schools and society,” she says.
 
 Dr John too says that awareness of such basic rules should be given during childhood itself. “It is impossible to teach empathy to adults. You can teach someone to respect others irrespective of colour, caste or creed, only in childhood,” he sums up.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 : “If anyone finds anything wrong happening around, they should know that there is a law and order system here. The public have only the right to inform and provide necessary help to the police to ensure that the law is being implemented. Harming or hurting the accused person is never right. The reaction of one person to a situation will be different from that of the other. So whether it is a positive action or not, according to them, no one has the right to take law into his/her hands. If someone has done anything illegal, leave him/her to the law. Not even the police have the right to hurt an alleged criminal.”
 
  
  
 
 The officer, however, points out that there is no such restriction when it comes to a natural calamity or accident, when people should react quickly. “Then they needn’t wait for the police to reach the spot. If someone is drowning, one should not wait saying it is the duty of the police. So, we should handle situations objectively. They should have the discernment to know how to react and when. Let the law take its course. If the youth had showed the same temper during a rescue operation, it would have been a positive thing.” 
 
 
 
