BHAGALPUR: Union minister   Kumar Choubey’s son   has been named as an accused in one of the two FIRs lodged by   in connection with the violent clashes between two communities in Muslim-dominated Nathnagar on the outskirts of Bhagalpur on Saturday. Arijit had unsuccessfully contested the assembly election from Bhagalpur as a   candidate in 2015. 

 Several shops were vandalised and a two-wheeler was torched during the clashes. At least four policemen were injured in the heavy brickbatting between the two warring groups. The administration has since snapped the internet services in the district to prevent rumour mongering.
 
 According to the  , Arijit led the procession taken out under the aegis of Bharatiya Navavarsh Jagran Samiti to celebrate the first day of Vikarm Samvat, the historical Hindu calendar. The clashes began when Medininagar locals objected to the stoppage of the procession, as part of which Hindu religious songs were being played, at Medininagar Chowk. 
 
 Sources said the procession was taken out without any written permission from the district administration.
 
 Besides Arijit, those named in the FIR (no 176/18) lodged in the Nathnagar police station include Abhay Kumar Ghosh Sonu, Dev Kumar Pandey, Anup Lal Sah, Pranav Sah, Pramod Verma, Niranjan Singh, Sanjay Singh and Surendra Pathak apart from “400-500 unnamed” people. They have been booked under Sections 147, 148, 149, 188, 353, 153A and 295A of the IPC besides 3(d) of Loudspeaker Act, police said. 
 
 The IPC Sections deal with rioting, unlawful assembly, using criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty, spreading disharmony and indulging in deliberate and malicious acts to outrage religious feelings.
 
 The second FIR (no 177/18) has been lodged in the same Nathnagar police station against Bikram Yadav, Pinta Yadav, Manish Yadav, Pankaj Yadav, Shankar Yadav, Mohd Shami Ansari, Mohd Sonu, Mohd Munna, Mohd Jasmin, Taha Alam and 500 unknown people. They have been booked under Sections 147, 148, 149, 353, 341, 323, 337, 338, 427, 379 and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC besides Section 27 of the Arms Act.
 
 Defending his son and the other accused, minister Ashwini said the Vikram Samvat procession had nothing to do with the clashes. The clashes took place after the procession crossed past the spot, he claimed.
 
 Bhagalpur range DIG Vikas Vaibhav has confirmed that Arijit figures among the accused. Police are investigating the matter, he told TOI on Monday.
 
 
