KOLKATA: Several communities residing in the city will be ushering their new year over the weekend. From north to south and from east to north-east, citizens from several regions, who have made Kolkata their home, will welcome their New Year with prayers of peace and prosperity. 

  or the Bengali New Year will be celebrated on Sunday. Although Sunday is a holiday for most of the business establishments in College Street, Chitpur, Hatibagan, Shyambazar, Gariahat and BB Ganguly Street, all establishments will gather to start their new haal khata. There will be several rallies and programmes in different parts of the city to usher in the new year. 
 
 "Poila Baisakh is the celebration of the spirit of being a Bengali, irrespective of religion and region," said Palash Mukherjee, an educationist. "Apart from making Bengali delicacies, people meet friends and pay respect to elders." 
 
 The Punjabi community will usher in Baisakhi on Saturday with dance and music at a special programme at the Shahid Minar ground.
 
 This festival holds a great significance for the Sikh community as the Tenth Guru Laid the foundation of the Khalsa Community on this day. Members of the Punjabi community visit Gurudwara and attend Kirtan Path and offer prayers and ardas for a happy and prosperous life.
 
 "Thousand from our community assemble here to usher in Baisakhi. Music and dance is an integral part of the celebrations," said Satwant Singh, president of the Sri Singh Sabha, which has organised the programme. 
 
 The Assamese community in the city will be celebrating its New Year on Sunday morning at the   in   on Russell Street. The celebrations will start with hoisting of the club flag, followed by a Bihu dance performance by the children.
 
 "We will be serving Assamese jol pan. It includes dahi, chirwa, gur and Assamese petha," said Piku Saha, vice-president of the club. 
 
 Members of the Tamil community will also welcome their new year on Saturday.
 
 "On the first day of the year we spend time with our families and friends. We start our day with prayers and offerings and visit the temples. The community also relishes a lavish spread of delicious dishes in their best traditional clothes after having paid their respects to the elders in the family," said Ramesh Guruswamy, a member of the Bharathi Tamil Sangham, an association of Tamils in Kolkata. 
 
 The Malyalam New Year or Vishu will be celebrated on Saturday. The members of the community wak up in the wee hours to see the ceremonial sighting of auspicious articles like rice, fruits, gold and flowers which symbolises prosperity, hope and promise. 
 
 On Sunday, the Odia community will celebrate their new year. On this occasion the Odias at   will be a holding a cultural performance at   auditorium on Sunday. 
 
 The New Year of the Manipuri community or the  , will also be celebrated on Saturday. 
 
 
