PATNA: All emergency and outpatient services at   (NMCH) were badly hit on Monday after the junior   went on an   following a scuffle with attendants of a patient around Sunday midnight. Sources said one Vivek Kumar of Tulsi Mandi under the Alamganj police station area was brought to   emergency with severe pain in his stomach. The doctor in the emergency ward prescribed him medicines. “But the three attendants asked doctors to conduct an ultrasound, though it was not required. The attending doctor tried to explain that ultrasound facility was not available at midnight. Then, the attendants asked for a senior doctor to attend the patient. The senior doctor said the same thing to the attendants. This did not convince them and they got violent,” NMCH junior doctor association’s (JDA) secretary Dr Rahul Shekhar told this correspondent.

 The junior doctors allege that the attendants called more people from their locality and the doctors called for police help. “When police reached the hospital, they favoured the attendants and started abusing us,” Dr Shekhar said. However, Alamganj SHO Om Prakash denied the allegations.
 
 City SP (East) Vishal Sharma blamed the junior doctors for the incident. “The junior doctors did not wish the police to interfere in the matter. The hospital administration also acknowledged the PG students’ mistake,” Sharma said.
 
 The doctors alleged there was only one security guard on duty instead of five at the central emergency. The junior doctors had also a scuffle with security guards on Monday morning after they asked the hospital superintendent to remove all private security guards.
 
 NMCH superintendent Dr AP Singh said all security guards were removed from the hospital. “We will hire new guards,” he said. The hospital administration held discussions with health department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar late Monday evening. 
 
 The medicos, in a letter to CM, health department’s principal secretary and NMCH principal and superintendent, demanded police action against the attendants and suspension of ASI Ramakant Rai. They also demanded hospital superintendent’s resignation.
 
 
