 spent the last three decades building an obscure maker of wire baskets into a global advertising powerhouse, earning millions and a knighthood from Queen Elizabeth II along the way. His downfall was far swifter. Sorrell, 73, said late on Saturday that he would resign from his position as chief executive office of   with immediate effect. His departure followed allegations of personal misconduct and misuse of company assets and comes days before the board was set to publish the findings of their investigation. Sorrell has denied any wrongdoing.

 
 The WPP chief was the de facto elder statesman of the ad industry and the figurehead of corporate Britain, appearing regularly in public to discuss issues from Brexit to Donald Trump’s trade wars to the rise of Facebook and Google. He also courted controversy with his pugnacious manner and inflated pay package, particularly at a time when WPP’s revenue stalled.
 
 
  
 
 In a statement to WPP employees, Sorrell said the current disruption was putting “too much unnecessary pressure on the business” and that in the interest of the company and clients it was “best for me to step aside”. “As a founder, I can say that WPP is not just a matter of life or death, it was, is and will be more important than that,” Sorrell said. “Good fortune and Godspeed to all of you.”
 
 The bittersweet taste of his departure was apparent in his farewell note, which laid out in great detail the long journey of WPP from humble beginnings. He said he’d spent every day of the last 33 years thinking about the future of the company, which he built into the world’s largest and most successful advertising firms.
 
 Sorrell’s fall from grace took less than a month after WPP announced on April 3 that it was investigating the allegations. Chairman Roberto Quarta now becomes executive chairman until the appointment of a new CEO, WPP said in a statement late on Saturday. Mark Read, who heads WPP agency  , and Andrew Scott, WPP’s corporate development director, become joint chief operating officers.
 
 The investigation into Sorrell has now concluded, WPP said, reiterating that the amounts weren’t material. 
 
 Sorrell’s 1985 investment in Wire & Plastic Products and a string of acquisitions of advertising companies that followed in effect founded WPP, making him an executive seen by some as irreplaceable for his direct access to clients and active hand on a sprawling network of agencies. WPP on March 1 lowered its long-term profit outlook after reporting its worst annual performance since the global financial crisis, capping a string of disappointments that put Sorrell on the defensive.
 
 Sorrell will be treated as having retired, based on the directors’ compensation policy, the company said. His share awards will be prorated in line with the plan rules and will vest over the next five years, to the extent that performance targets are met. Sorrell is one of the largest shareholders of WPP, with a 1.46% stake.
 
