GURUGRAM: The city’s average annual   has been increasing steadily over the past three years. If this trend continues, it won’t be long before the city climbs higher than the 11th spot it currently finds itself in on the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) index of the 15 most polluted cities in the world.

 Note helping the case is neighbouring Faridabad, which is ranked higher than Delhi (6th) at second spot. 
 
  According to Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) data, the annual average PM 2.5 level in the city increased to 133 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) in 2017 from 113 µg/m³ in 2016, up by around 17%. Till April 2018, the average climbed higher, to 137.04 µg/m³. 
 
 This means that the average PM2.5 concentration in the air on any given day is at least two times more than the national safe standard (60µg/m³). The WHO index is based on its 2016 database, which put Gurugram’s annual PM2.5 level at 113 µg/m³. The organisation has not released its 2017 database yet. 
 
 Going by HSPCB data, the level of PM 2.5 remained within the national standards only during two months in Gurugram— August 2016 (55.98 µg/m³) and August 2017 (49.55 µg/m³) — in the last 27 months.
 While December was the most polluted month in 2017 with the monthly average of PM2.5 recorded at 217.01 µg/m³, November was the most polluted month in 2016 with a monthly average of PM2.5 recorded at 211.35 µg/m³. In 2018, January has been the most polluted month so far, with a monthly average of PM2.5 recorded at 137.04 µg/m³.
  
 As India’s air pollution monitoring network improved in the past few years with more cities being monitored, the number of its cities in the top polluters’ list zoomed. 
 
 According to experts, with the installation of more air quality monitoring systems in NCR cities, the real situation of air quality in the region has been exposed.
 
 “After installing more air quality monitoring stations in NCR cities, we started receiving data of air quality in cities like   and Faridabad. It shows how important is it to monitor the air pollution levels,” said Anumita Roy Chowdhary, executive director (policy and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). “The focus has to be shifted to stringent actions and compliances now. The state governments can’t only claim that they have a plan of actions in place. It is extremely important to ensure that all norms and court decisions are strictly implement-ed in entire NCR, not just in Delhi.”
 
 Jai Bhagwan, regional officer, HSPCB, claimed the authorities, according to the norms, had been taking all possible measures to bring down pollution levels. “It’s true that monitoring air quality has revealed the real situation. Dust from roads and massive construction activities are major factors responsible for major dip in air quality in the city,” he said.
 
 Niranjan Raje, former member of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA), claimed that the authorities wake up and act only when there is a crisis, generally after Diwali. 
 
 During Diwali, air pollution peaks in NCR-Delhi owing to bursting of crackers and burning of crop residue by farmers.
 
 “However, the WHO report clearly states that the annual average is almost two times more than that of the safe standards. Therefore, there is a need to implement the measures throughout the year, and the focus should also be on NCR cities like Gurugram and Faridabad,” Raje said.
 
 Environmental activist Vivek Kamboj said the authorities always ignored a steep decline in forest area and green cover in the region. “According to the recent forest survey report of India, there has been a negligible 0.01% increase in forest cover in the past two years in Haryana, which means it will take at least 200 years for the state to increase the forest cover by 1%. Unfortunately, the Aravalis has not been given the forest status,” he said.
 
 
