Kolkata: The Maheshtala assembly   held on Monday on the city outskirts, seven kilometres from Taratala towards Budge Budge, gave citizens a break from the continuing 40-day violence during the state rural polls. 

 People came out in large numbers amid peaceful polling, taking the voter turnout to 72.45% till 6 pm. According to election officials, the polling percentage may go up still, coming close to the 81.73% turnout this seat had clocked in the 2016 assembly polls.
 
 The byelection was held after the seat fell vacant following the death of sitting Trinamool Congress MLA Kasturi Das in February. Her husband and chairman of Maheshtala municipality, Dulal Das, is TMC’s candidate.
 
 Both the opposition and the ruling party gave credit to the central forces for the conduct of peaceful elections. 
 
 Das was also courteous towards his political rivals, sending out signals during the day that his party is not in a mood to muzzle the popular opinion. “Which places have you visited? Have you faced any problem from our partymen?” the Trinamool candidate asked BJP candidate and former joint CBI director Sujit Ghosh. “Give me a call if you face any problem,” Das said.
 
 The courtesy possibly hid the worry Trinamool organisers had over the “Trojan horses” close to mayor and Dulal’s estranged in-law Sovan Chatterjee who has a clout within Maheshtala Trinamool. The worry among the Trinamool top brass became all too apparent when the party’s Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee told a poll rally at Bata More that a vote for Das means a vote for Abhishek Banerjee and Mamata Banerjee.
 
 So what does this good turnout mean for Das? Das loyalists hope to protect the Trinamool votebank and are confident that the Left vote percentage would slide further, as has been evident in other votes. If things go as Trinamool sees it, Das can increase TMC’s margin from the 12,542 votes in the 2016 assembly polls. Trinamool insiders admit that BJP may increase from the 7.7% vote it got in the last assembly polls, but the party couldn’t field agents in many booths. 
 
 A high turnout in Bengal bypolls is not exceptional. The turnout percentage was also high in the Sabang assembly bypoll held months ago in West Midnapore, where Trinamool candidate Manas Bhuiyan won.
 
  However, Maheshtala is a mixed locality with a fair representation of middle class and ostagars engaged in the traditional garment industry. Trinamool is eyeing the Muslim ostagar section that had gone with the Left for decades. 
 
 BJP is banking on the middle class settlements on the other side of the railway tracks from Shyampur to Nangi-Budge Budge. The only trouble reported during the day was from a booth in Dakshin Shyampur Primary School where BJP and CPM camp offices were dismantled allegedly by Trinamool miscreants.
 
 
