BENGALURU: Karnataka’s poll temperature is all set to rise in the coming weeks with top leaders of the BJP and the Congress breezing in and out of the state, addressing rallies and party workers’ meetings after Sankranti.

 The last week of January will have the key stars of the BJP, Prime Minister   and national president Amit Shah, in Bengaluru on January 28 at the culmination function of former CM B S Yeddyurappa’s 75-day Parivarthana Yatra. Congress president   will address a series of rallies during his three-day state tour from January 27.
 
 This will be Rahul’s first visit to the state after taking over the reins. Rahul will address a Dalit rally in Ballari and take part in   birth centernary celebrations in Chikkamagaluru, the district which gave her political rebirth in 1977.
 
 Party sources said chief minister Siddaramaiah, KPCC president G Parameshwara and leaders will be in Delhi for a meeting to discuss the poll strategy on January 13.
 
 Shah will be in Bengaluru on January 9 to preside over the state unit’s core committee meeting. Shah’s presence within 10 days of the special meet has several BJP workers in jitters, as they have been persistently pulled up for shortcomings in campaigning. 
 
 It’s said the meet is to keep Shah updated of action taken by the state BJP leadership after his meeting with party legislators on December 31 and to chalk out the future course of campaigning. The meet is also scheduled to prepare the ground for Modi’s visit on January 28.
 
 Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will address a rally in Vijayanagar here on Sunday. This is the second edition of the rally to be held in the city after Union minister Rajanth Singh held one in December. These rallies before the January 28 one are said to make up for the poor show the local leadership put up when the yatra was flagged off in November.
 
 
 
 
 Yogi Adityanath has been invited to have lunch at the Adichunchanagiri mutt on Sunday. It’s learnt the mutt has close links with the Gorakhnath mutt in Uttar Pradesh where Adityanath was the head priest. The mutt’s seer Nirmalananda Swamji invited Adityanath for lunch at the mutt.
 
 
