

 The most precious thing in life is your greatest rival. That’s one of sport’s eternal truths. It may make sense for Coca-Cola to destroy Pepsi-cola or for Donald   to wipe out Hillary Clinton, but in sport your chief asset is your most feared and fearsome enemy.
 
 That’s just one of the reasons why sport is different to everyday life. If you lose your rival, you lose part of yourself. You lose some of the reasons for carrying on. In 1983, Bjorn Borg retired from tennis aged 26. His greatest rival, John McEnroe, was never quite the same player again. Without his rival, sport had lost much of its meaning for him.
 
 The England cricket team went through a decade and a half of torment from Australia, travelling from humiliation to humiliation. Commentators declared in both Australia and England that Australians were better people who came from a better country. It was awful. But the answer was not to put Australia out of business. Or to stop playing them. The answer was to keep playing them. And in the end, in 2005 — a year sacred to followers of English cricket — England won the Ashes back after an extraordinary match at The Oval.
 
 And in that fantastic — the stuff of fantasy indeed — denouement, with a mad 158 from the incomparable Kevin Pietersen, it was clear that every minute of those 16 years of defeat was worth suffering, because they all led to the perfection of that day in south London.
 
 Not just because it was great cricket and great sport, but because it was a new and glorious twist in cricket’s most ancient rivalry. Rivalry, by making the pain of defeat so severe, made the joy of victory almost unbearable.
 
 Which brings us to the final of the Champions Trophy. It seems, looking back, as if the whole competition had been organised to bring India and   together at the end. It began with Indian beating Pakistan in a manner damaging to Pakistani self-esteem. India, the impossibly rich rulers of cricket, gave a casual kicking to the homeless indigents who dared to get in their way.
 
 Winston Churchill, and later James Bond, speaking of another rivalry, observed that the Hun is always “either at your feet or at your throat”. The Pakistan cricket team has something of the same quality for India. They set India a challenging total of 338 and then, as India replied, Mohammed Amir took the first three wickets in a devastating spell. Virat Kohli was dropped — and was caught the very next ball. There really was something in the air that day. Pakistan won by 180 runs, a fair old margin. And that is actually a great result. Not just for Pakistan and for romance and for underdogs and for sport in general — but also for India. Not because it knocks them off their f**king perch — as Sir Alex Ferguson famously said when his Manchester United team at last got the better of their eternal rivals Liverpool — but because it adds yet another layer of complexity to India’s eternal rivalry with Pakistan. And makes you long for the next match.
 
 India v Pakistan is a great fixture. It’s one of the great rivalries, as good as anything in sport. It carries a lot of political and religious rancour, but there’s a great deal more to it than that. It’s also a long sporting history of two teams trying to smash the bejesus out of each other on the field of cricket: and the fact that beating this opponent matters more than beating any other opponent in the world.
 
 And that is a glorious thing. The pain of that Champions Trophy defeat will add a lorry-load of chillies to proceedings the next time these two teams take each other on. Not as a symbolic war, or a religious testament or an argument about Kashmir, but for the pure-souled joy of playing sport against a rival and winning. Or the next most exciting thing in the world, losing.
 
 It follows that India must do all that they can to help Pakistani cricket, because that rivalry enriches India just as much as it enriches Pakistan. (Sport not being all about money.) India should also play Pakistan as often as possible. Alas, in the past ten years there have been only two bilateral series between the two teams. The last Test series was 2007 — more than ten years for god’s sake. Vijay Goel, the Indian sports minister, announced before the Champions Trophy that India would not consider bilateral fixtures, because of “crossborder terrorism”. This is just one more political posture.
 
 Here’s a little known fact: cricket is not about terrorism, it’s about sport. Playing your rivals at sport is good, not bad. It stops them being faceless enemies and turns them into rivals. Contrary to the rhetoric of the Olympic Games, sport does not bring about world peace — it never has yet, anyway — but it’s a fact that playing your sporting rivals is more fun than hiding from them. When you play your rivals frequently, a curious intimacy develops. You acquire a knowledge of the way your rivals think and act. You become aware that they are part of you: like you, and yet unlike. That’s long been true of the Anglo-Oz rivalry, and there’s been a century and half of it. It’s become clear that these two countries, the old and the new, the mother and the unruly child, the hidebound and the innovative, the class-ridden and the classless, the one with history and the one without, the cold introverted land against the open land of mateship: these two places are not so much opposites as each other’s completion. We in England who follow cricket are more ourselves because of Australia. That’s true of all rivalries. Rivalries are sport’s breath of life: to deny them is to suffocate sport and to suffocate life. Sporting life is out there on the cricket field, and we should never let it be denied and forbidden by men in suits.
 
 
 
 
