CHENNAI: The Madras high court’s recensure of the state government for the treatment meted out to junior police personnel and constables, coupled with show of solidarity by these policemen on social media, have emboldened constables to form informal groups online and express their disgust at the menial jobs they are made to do.

 Disgruntled over the ‘orderly system’, the constabulary are subtly insisting to streamline their duties as per the police standing order (PSO), a manual for the uniformed services.
 
 After the youth mobilised people for the pro-jallikattu protests online, young constables, some of whom are well-educated, are connecting with their colleagues. Several informal WhatsApp groups have started discussions on the working conditions of the junior policemen. Not only do they discuss their run-ins with lawyers, some conversations also challenge the media narrative surrounding policemen. “In the Trichy case where the policeman kicked a bike and the woman died, it was widely reported in the media that the victim was pregnant. But we circulated the postmortem report which said that the victim was not pregnant,” said a constable.
 
 Police personnel in the state are also mulling options to float an association. “If there is an association for IPS officers and their wives, why can’t we have one to air our grievances,” asked retired police officer A Mohan.
 
 A police officer said many constables desert the force because of the hectic job profile. “They start their day at 4.30am and are kept on standby to assist enforcement, do gardening and other jobs in the battalion,” the officer said.
 
 A constable said doing menial jobs at a senior officer’s residence comes with benefits. “Once in every six months the battalion shifts its base which will prevent me from returning home every night. But if I do the menial jobs inside four walls, no one would know. Also, I can stay with my family during night hours,” said a constable from the Tamil Nadu Special Police battalion.
 
 A police constable, who is working as a dog keeper at a police officer’s house said, “It’s like a trap. Even if you want to leave the place and do regular policing, we may not opt to. We enjoy a lot of benefits here. That keeps us from leaving the place.”
 
 
