Bengaluru: A 47-year-old BJP leader and husband of a corporator, was hacked to death in broad daylight by unidentified assailants in front of a temple in Anjanappa Garden, Cottonpet, west Bengaluru, on Wednesday. 

 S Kadiresh, husband of Rekha Kadiresh, two-time BJP corporator of Chalavadi Palya ward, was attacked when he was speaking on his cellphone around 3.45pm. 
 
 Eyewitnesses said Kadiresh, a small-time financier, realtor and businessman, was looking after the arrangements for Shivaratri celebrations at Muneshwara temple, located around 300 metres from his residence, along with three of his friends. 
 
 “Kadiresh was watching the preparations when he received a call on his mobile phone. He walked towards the gate. Suddenly, four men armed with machetes barged into the temple compound and attacked him. Before others could rush to Kadiresh’s help, the four men fled. Kadiresh was immediately shifted to Victoria hospital where he succumbed to injuries,” police said.
 
 According to S Suresh, the younger brother of Kadiresh who was present in the temple when the attack took place, said two of the four assailants were known to Kadiresh. “Vinay and Naveen, residents of Bhakshi Garden, had an old rivalry with my brother,” Suresh said. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (west) M N Anuchet said four teams have been formed to nab the assailants. “Based on Suresh’s statement, we have taken a murder complaint, naming Vinay and Naveen as prime accused,” he said.
 
 Police said Kadiresh, who is survived by his wife, a college-going daughter and a school-going son, was a rowdy-sheeter. He was involved in 15 cases, including attempt to murder, assault and criminal intimidation.
 
 “It’s a politically motivated murder. The elections are just a few months away and he was a popular leader in Chamarajpet area. There’s no law and order in Karnataka; several Hindus have been murdered,” said Padmanabha Reddy, leader of the opposition, BBMP council.
 
 “I condemn the inhuman and barbaric murder. A complete collapse of law and order and a jungle raj-like situation is prevailing in the state under CM Siddaramaiah,” said B S Yeddyurappa, BJP state president.
 
 
