TRICHY: Two main operation theatres at the   (MGM) government hospital will remain closed for at least a week after CCTV cameras installed them were removed on April 14. Two of the theatres have been closed for sterilisation to eliminate contamination after the work carried out to remove the cameras.

 The CCTV cameras installed in two of the main operation theatres and the septic operation theatre were removed on April 14 following instructions from state health secretary  .
 
 “When the matter was brought to my notice, it was discussed with the hospital administration. Considering that it is not ethically right to monitor through CCTV, they were asked to remove them,” health secretary Radhakrishnan told TOI on Thursday. 
 
 The issue had come up after a group of doctors submitted a representation to hospital dean Dr G Anitha on April 2 complaining that the cameras placed inside the operation theatres would be a direct infringement on the privacy of patients and illegal without the consent of the patient. 
 
 The decision to install CCTV cameras inside the theatres was taken by head of the department of surgery Dr T Karunakaran who claimed that the facility was a step towards improving medical education. 
 
  chapter of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) also vehemently opposed the move citing breach of patient privacy. 
 
 “Since it is a highly sensitive issue, we took it up with the dean and asked her to order the cameras be removed as patients will be in a compromised position in the operation theatre,” said Dr A Satheesh Kumar, Trichy district secretary of TNGDA. 
 
 After removing the cameras from the theatres on April 14, the hospital administration took a swab test which revealed contamination in the rooms. Hospital sources said that it was owing to the civil work carried out by technicians to remove the cameras. 
 
 A senior doctor on the condition of anonymity said that the infection in the septic operation theatre can be ignored. Hence, the hospital administration ordered to close only the main operation theatres for sterilisation process. It would take one more week for resumption of work at the operation theatre.
 
 Sources said that the operations planned in the closed theatres had to be rescheduled and shifted to other theatres. Dean Dr Anitha was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.
 
 
