KOLKATA: As the league stage of   enters the home stretch, there is a mad scramble for the last two playoff berths among five teams left in the fray. Two of them –   and  , level on 12 points from 12 matches, will face off at the Eden Gardens here on Tuesday with everything to play for and no room for error.

 
 
 
 Permutations and combinations will have to wait as the two sides look to go all-out for victory in a bid to put themselves in pole position to make the playoffs cut.
 
 It has been a roller-coaster ride for RR this season. Back in the T20 league after serving a two-year ban, the Rajasthan outfit, who were languishing at bottom of the points table at once stage, staged a great comeback by winning three matches on the trot to be back in contention for a top-four finish.
 
 “I think we’ve got the momentum now and there’s no reason why we shouldn’t make it to the playoffs,” Jofra Archer’s words, after Royals’ win over Mumbai Indians on Sunday, reflected the confidence in their camp.
 
 The man mainly responsible for RR’s upswing is none other than  . Since beginning of this month, the Englishman has scored over half of Royals’ runs and has equalled the record for most consecutive IPL fifties – five. His last three scores — 82, 95 not out and 94 not out — have all come in winning causes.
 
 The best thing the RR think-tank did was to push Buttler up the order. The right-hander, who was making small contributions lower down the order, clearly relished the freedom of planning his innings while opening the batting. More importantly, Buttler is not only providing the team with a solid start but also staying till the end to finish things off for RR.
 
 KKR will have to get rid of Buttler as early as possible on Tuesday. Dinesh Karthik’s team is on a high after recording a huge victory over Kings XI Punjab in their last match and will be confident of seeing off Royals’ challenge, having beaten them in their last meeting in Jaipur. The hosts will also try and capitalize on their last home match to boost their qualification hopes.
 
 The hosts will also look to improve their net run-rate just in case the playoffs race goes down to the wire. And for that to happen, either Chris Lynn or Sunil Narine will have to fire at the top.
 
 It will be a tough task against an attack led by Archer, who has consistently delivered with the ball since his return from an injury. But KKR batsmen will do well to target Jaydev Unadkat and Dhawal Kulkarni who have leaked runs all season.
 
 KKR’s pace battery remains a worry and skipper Karthik will be hoping for a better sow from them on an Eden pitch that appears to be slowing down as the tournament progresses. The stage is set for a cracker of a contest.
 
 
 • With a 10-wkt win over Kings, RCB have kept their playoff hopes alive. Of course, they must win their remaining games. They remain in 7th place for the moment but their NRR has improved tremendously.
 
 • Kings XI are also in contention since if they win their last two games, they will have 16 points. Even one win will take them to 14, but then they have to hope other results go their way.
 
 • SRH and CSK are assured of finishing in the top two.
 
 • Mumbai, with 10 points from 12 games, can still go through because of their excellent net run rate.
 
 
