LUCKNOW: Lucknow streets and colonies will remain littered for some more weeks as   is set to miss its May 31 deadline to clean the city phase-wise. In March,   had selected 40 Adarsh wards (five from each zone) to achieve 100% door-to-door garbage collection and cleaning of streets. LMC had planned to clean all 110 wards by May end.

 The plan was that Eco-Green (private partner) would collect garbage, while LMC sanitary workers would sweep the streets. Both teams were to visit together for complete cleanliness in a ward. But things have not gone this way. In a reality check done in Adarsh wards chosen in the first phase, TOI found that the supervisor never accompanies the teams and only appears at the time of money collection. Also, there is poor coordination between Eco-Green and Lucknow Municipal Corporation. While sweepers turn up around 7 am, Eco-Green collectors reach wards only after 9am.
 
 Sunil Chauhan, a Dalibagh resident said, “Eco-Green workers have not visited my colony for past 10 days. Even if they come, they don’t pick up the garbage fro streets or the dumping box.”   resident Tapsee Agarwal said, “As garbage collectors don’t come daily, heaps of garbage gets collected in my home.”
 
 People also blame LMC’s laxity behind garbage mess. Rajan of Paltan colony (Bhartendu Harishchandra Ward) complained, “If LMC doesn’t have enough manpower for garbage collection, it should at least collect garbage from main roads.”   of Rajajipuram added that the roads near the VIP areas are cleaned regularly but many other localities are neglected.
 
 LMC workers even flout the   norms. In Dalibagh, some morning walkers objected to a sanitary worker throwing his half burnt cigarette into the garbage heap, but he arrogantly replied: “Let it burn. Who has the courage to catch us.”
 
 There is also confusion over the identity of Eco-Green collectors as the company is in the process of recruiting new private sweepers.   of Indiranagar said since the collectors don’t carry identity card it becomes difficult to verify their credentials.
 
 LMC health officer PK Singh said, “We will miss the deadline because Eco-Green fell short of manpower to collect garbage from all Adarsh wards. But the company is hiring more workers to meet the target soon. It has sought two weeks to cover all Adarsh wards after which we will select second round of 40 Adarsh wards.”
 
 
 
 
