KOLKATA: Despite efforts by   and the   (IRCTC) to promote online booking of tickets, touts seem to be doing a roaring business all around Kolkata, both as individuals and in the garb of unregistered travel agencies. In 2017, as many as 35 touts were nabbed and seven unregistered travel agencies busted by authorities of Eastern Railway’s Sealdah division alone. The raids have continued in 2018 and till date, three rackets have been busted.

 
 “The touts charge Rs 500 extra for every ticket. Unfortunately, people continue to believe such people instead of making any effort to purchase tickets themselves. The latest raid was conducted on Thursday by a team of the   (CIB) of Sealdah led by inspectors Ajay Shankar and K P Pal and comprising S Saha, M Barua, J Ram, G P Ram and Sangeeth Kumar at the passenger reservation system (PRS) counter in Budge Budge. Two persons, identified as Biswanath Ghorui and Md Kauser Ali Khan, were apprehended with Rs 35,985 worth of tickets and Rs 10,040 in cash,” a senior official said.
 
  
 While people approach touts to purchase tickets for them from booking counters, others also seek help from bogus travel agencies for online booking. “These people always raise a scare that tickets are no longer available to mint money. We don’t rule out the involvement of a section of railway staff. Unfortunately, their identities never get disclosed, even by the touts. The bogus travel agencies create fake individual IDs to book tickets through the IRCTC website as bulk booking is only allowed to registered organisations. They finally end up selling hundreds of tickets and get away with huge profits,” another official said.
 
 
 According to him, the touts are now active throughout the year due to the demand for tickets. Their activities go up before vacations when the demand goes up for tickets for regular trains. The railways do run several special trains and unlike in the past, these run on schedule. Despite the railways urging people to book tickets on special trains, they insist on travelling on regular ones.
 
 
 
