PORT ELIZABETH:   was 46 runs short of the 10,000 mark when he walked out to bat here at the St. George’s Park on Tuesday evening. By the time he left, having faced 17 balls in an unconvincing, 30-odd minute stay at the crease, he was 33 runs behind the milestone.

 
 
 
 There is little doubt that India’s most successful captain ever - and arguably the finest wicketkeeper-batsman of his time in the shorter formats - is struggling. Every cricketer does at some point or the other in his career. Only those blessed with the strongest of techniques survive. Sachin Tendulkar did, in the final phase of his career, when between 2008 and 2011, he returned to rule the batting world.
 
 
 
 
 The question surrounding   the batsman is now clear: does he have the technique to fight the very-evident loss of his reflexes?
 
 The Indian team management has no doubts whatsoever that Dhoni is an asset to the side in the run-up to the 2019 World Cup campaign. Captain Virat Kohli and coach Ravi Shastri have conveyed the same more than once in the recent past. Behind the wickets, Dhoni is still the best in the world by a long mile. Where marshalling of resources is concerned, he happens to be Virat Kohli’s biggest strength on and off the field. With bat in hand, however, Dhoni has been unconvincing.
 
 On Tuesday, Dhoni walked out amid a lot of cheering from the stands after the fall of Hardik Pandya’s wicket. The handful of Indian supporters were in no doubt about the accomplishments of the cricketer they applauded.
 
 First came  , then Morne Morkel, Ngidi again, back to Morkel, back to Ngidi, followed by Kagiso Rabada and Ngidi again. Eight balls left to go for India’s innings to wind up, the 21-year-old Ngidi had his victim, who is also his captain at Chennai Super Kings.
 
 The 17 balls he faced from these pacers were bowled at good pace and Dhoni was not allowed to play away from the body. He merely scraped through. The only boundary that came off his bat was an awkward outside edge off Ngidi, much like the dismissal off the very next ball - a top edge to mid-off.
 
 If Dhoni has set his sights on the 2019 World Cup campaign - which is 15 months away - he has work on his hands. At five, six and seven in the Indian middle-order, no batsman has looked good enough in this series to push India beyond the 300-run mark post Kohli’s departure. Kedar Jadhav at No. 5, replaced by Shreyas Iyer; Pandya at No. 6 and Dhoni at No. 7 have all struggled. In that, Dhoni’s 316-ODI experience has been more telling than the rest.
 
 With Dhoni’s wicket, India lost three wickets for just two runs from 14 balls. By now, oppositions have a pattern to deal with India in the 50-over format. Out-batting India is their best bet. In that, No. 5, 6 & 7 remain crucial loopholes, given a tail that doesn’t wag. Dhoni’s batting continues to remain the focus.
 
