JAIPUR: Internet services have been banned from Saturday morning in some areas of   and   districts ahead of   agitation at   near   in Bharatpur district. Intelligence wing of the state police too is on a high alert. 

 The Gujjar community, over their demand of 5% reservation within the cap of 50%, have threatened to launch yet another agitation on May 21. On Saturday, Sandesh Nayak, district collector, Bharatpur and  , district superintendent of police, Bharatpur met the Gujjar leaders.
 
 “We went there to tell them that they need to apply for the permission for their protest. Also, they will have to comply with the high court directions relating to such agitation. They would be given conditional permission and would be urged not to disturb communal harmony and also that they won’t indulge in any violence,” said Tank. 
 
 In order to avoid spread of foul posts on the social networking platforms which can disturb the communal harmony, the district administration has already banned internet services. “Usually, during this time, rumour-mongers use internet and social networking platforms to create disturbances. Thus, as a precautionary measure, we have banned internet in the area as most of the villages here are Gujjar-dominated. The ban will cover a major part of Bharatpur district and also some portion of Karauli district,” said a senior officer of intelligence wing of state police on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 Officials of the intelligence wing are keeping a vigil over the Gujjar leaders and updating the headquarters on the day-to-day talks and affair of the leaders. An officer with intelligence wing, said, “Majority of their issues are settled. Thus it is unlikely that the agitation might turn violent this time. The community is also bound by the affidavit it had given to the high court about maintaining peace during their agitations.’’
 
 Meanwhile, the state government continues with its efforts to get Gujjars on the table for a dialogue. ``We have informed the authorities that only if the government has a concrete plan to provide us with five per cent reservation within the 50 per cent and by bifurcating the existing   quota, we will agree for talks,’’ said Shailendra Singh, general secretary of the   Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti.
 
 
