KANYAKUMARI: The   had spent Rs 9.4 crore to prepare the techno economic feasibility report (TEFR) for the scrapped International Container Transhipment Terminal project at Enayam and the detailed project report (DPR) for the project that is now being proposed at Kovalam in Kanyakumari.

 This has been revealed by the public information officer of the port trust in response to an   petition from S Stanly Casmic Sundar, advocate and legal adviser of the People’s Movement Against Enayam ICTT. He claimed that the reply — to a set of 10 questions he sent on January 24 — lacked clarity and gave room for suspicion about largescale misuse of public money.   is the nodal agency for establishing the terminal in Kanyakumari district. The Enayam ICTT project was scrapped following strong protests from the local community.
 
 Quoting from the four-page reply from the port trust, Stanly told TOI that Rs 3.5 crore was seen to have been spent on preparing the TEFR and Rs 5.84 crore on the DPR. “The information officer has stated that it included Rs 35 lakh spent for the inception report, Rs 35 lakh for the traffic and the market study report, Rs 35 lakh for the report on alternative development concepts and for the locations of the port at Enayam,” he said. Another Rs 35 lakh was spent on the report on financial returns and economic impact followed by Rs 70 lakh on the draft final TEFR and Rs 1.4 crore for the final TEFR. “It is surprising that expenses under four heads were Rs 35 lakh each evenly, whereas under two other heads the amount spent was in multiples of Rs 35 lakh,” he observed. 
 
 The RTI replies stated that Rs 5,84,60,000 was spent on preparing the DPR for the ICTT. It included Rs 39.5 lakh for the inception report, Rs 63.2 lakh for the report on port design including design of breakwaters, cargo terminals and other marine structures and Rs 7.9 lakh for preparation of application form and documents to get prior environmental clearance from the ministry of environment and forests. An amount of Rs 2.37 crore was incurred for preparing the report on geotechnical parameters, draft port layout and firmed-up traffic forecast. Another Rs 2.37 crore was spent for the draft final DPR for Enayam site and Addendum to the TEFR for the Kanyakumari site. “In these replies, they have clubbed expenses incurred under various heads under one banner without giving details pertaining to the expenses,” Stanly said.
 
 In reply to another query, the port trust stated that Rs 14,38,656 was spent for advertising in FM radio stations on the Enayam ICTT. The reply also claimed that Rs 4,98,948 was spent to create awareness among public through meetings from January 18 to February 2 this year. “Why was Rs 14 lakh spent on advertisement for a project that did not kickstart? We suspect that the Rs 4.98 lakh was used for the BJP-backed counter protests seeking establishment of the ICTT,” the petitioner said.
 
 
