KOLKATA: ‘Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the judgment that something else is more important than fear’. This is one of the driving principles of The Times of India’s ‘Outsmart Cancer’ campaign, launched in association with Apollo Cancer Centre.

 An initiative to get screened for the disease is indeed the first step to beat cancer, pointed out experts at a series of lectures and panel discussions held at the Saturday Club on January 28. Early detection and a healthy lifestyle, it was pointed out, could prevent 30% of cancer deaths.
 
 Delivering the keynote address at the event, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai director Anil D’Cruz pointed out that a vast majority of patients in India seek treatment at the final stages of the disease when chances of survival have already dipped. “While regular screening is rare, even the early signs of cancer are ignored. This results in late detection, usually in stages three and four when the damage has been done,” said D’Cruz. He added that while lung, breast and ovarian cancer were on the rise, cervical, penile and stomach cancer cases were on the decline. “While 40% of cancers are tobaccorelated, just 20% are caused by infections. This invariably leads us to the question if tobacco should be banned. But prohibition doesn’t always work, as has been proved in the case of Bhutan which became the first country to ban tobacco. Ten years after the ban, a survey revealed that 24.8% of the population still used tobacco,” said D’Cruz.
 
 Along with screening, access to treatment, use of the right technology and a right lifestyle were just as important to check cancer mortality, felt  , associate director of CMC, Vellore. “These are issues which need to be addressed as urgently as regular screening for cancer,” he said. The last 30 years have seen a paradigm shift in cancer treatment, according to  , head of radiation oncology at  . Speaking at a panel discussion on changing paradigms in medical oncology, she observed that while earlier just four to six drugs were used, now there’s a much wider choice. “In fact, chemotherapy is now on the way out and immunotherapy is taking over,” said  , consultant, radiation, oncology at Apollo Gleneagles Cancer Hospital. But the cost of the new treatment remains a challenge,” he added.
 
 Chemotherapy in combination with personalized care was the way ahead, felt T Raja, senior consultant, Apollo Cancer Hospitals, Chennai. “Methods like tissue-based assay, single gene mutation analysis, circulating tumour DNA and next generation sequencing are now going to be used more and more,” said Raja.
 
 At another panel discussion on ‘Lifestyle and Cancer’, speakers stressed on the need to curb the urge of ‘living life king-size’. “Tobacco, obesity, lack of fruits and vegetables in our daily diet were the most common reasons behind cancer in urban areas. Lifestyles have changed and so have our habits. But many of these are driving us towards cancer,” said Amit Dutt Dwary, senior consultant, Apollo Gleneagles Cancer Hospital.
 
 While experts agreed on the importance of early screening, it must fulfil several criteria, pointed out Raja. “It must be simple and lowcost, safe and non-invasive, acceptable to a majority and have a good outcome possibility. The idea is to convince people to go for screenings and unless it is hassle-free and effective, the purpose will be lost,” said Raja.
 
