Amritsar: A native of   district, Nishan Singh (32) died in an unexplained incident in Saudi Arabia. The cement company, for which Nishan worked, has not even informed the family about his death so far. The family came to know about his death last week, when a friend working in Saudi Arabia called them from there.

 Nishan is survived by three sisters and mother Harjinder Kaur. His father died 12 years ago. The family had given their small piece of land on mortgage to arrange for around Rs 2.5 lakh to pay a travel agent who got Nishan a job in Saudi Arabia.
 
 Talking to TOI on Monday, the victim’s sister Rajbir Kaur said Nishan died on April 7. “One of our family friends, Aman, who also works in Saudi Arabia, told us about my brother’s death,” she said. Aman told them that Nishan was hospitalized on March 31 after being in an accident involving ‘acid’, she said. He was declared dead on April 7.
 
 “Strangely, till date the company officials have not even bothered to inform us about it. We have lost our sole bread winner. All we want is to see his body, and cremate him here,” said Rajbir.
 
 The family has now appealed for Union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj’s intervention to bring back Nishan’s body and also sought compensation since the family has no earning hand now. “We didn’t see him for the past three years. Now my mother wants to cremate her son with her own hands,” said Rajbir.
 
 She said Nishan had not visited home after he left for Saudi Arabia as he did not get leave. 
 
 Meanwhile, rights activist Jas Uppal of UK-based Justice Upheld said Rajbir had contacted her seeking an investigation into her brother’s death. “We are demanding an investigation into the incident and helping the family to ensure that the body is repatriated to India for funeral in accordance with the family’s religious beliefs,” said Jas.
 
 Jas informed that one of the colleagues​ of Nishan,​ who wished to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal, said he was working as a driver in the factory and was expected to do ‘other work’. “He claims that Nishan was working the night shift from 10pm to 6am during which he was handling a large automated vat (container) of hot cement, which leaked,” said she said.
 
 
