TIRUPUR: A 37-year-old farmer from Udumalpet, who has set a new record in mulberry silk production, has bagged the sericulture department’s award.

 Chief minister   recently gave Rs 1 lakh to N Ponraj of Aathukinathupatti near Udumalpet, who produced 2,762kg of mulberry silk during 2016-17.
 
 After suffering failure in grocery shop business and later working as a dairy unit employee, Ponraj tried his hand in agriculture in his inherited farm. After it also failed due to low rainfall, he turned his focus into sericulture, which his father was doing as a part-time business.
 
 The farmer, who has been doing sericulture for the last 15 years, said, “Mulberry silkworm rearing could be done even on rain-fed lands. It is important to ensure that the silkworms are not affected by diseases. By feeding quality mulberry leaves, maintaining good environment and following the instructions of the sericulture department, the production can be boosted.”
 
 Ponraj was supported by his wife   and his parents in the rearing, which is facing a labour crunch. In 2016-17, he received 2,985 batches of eggs (each batch consists of 500-600 eggs) from the sericulture department and produced 2,762 kg of mulberry silk. Silk weighing between 800 and 950g per batch is considered as better performance. Following the calculation, he had a success rate of about 93%.
 
 As per the department record,   has been producing raw silk of 1,914 metric tonnes annually against the demand of 3,000MT. With climatic advantages like the presence of   gap, Udumalpet division is the largest producer of mulberry silk in the state. Now, 24,427 farmers are involved in sericulture on 46,570 acres of lands. While many farmers have thriving production, they don’t keep records. So it is not possible to take them into account, a sericulture department official said.
 
 “In order to encourage the farmers increase production, the department has taken steps to recognise the better performing farmers. We will top three performers in district as well as state-level. Cash prizes from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh would be given to them,” the official added.
 
 
