Shimla: While the BJP-led state government and the municipal corporation has failed to provide adequate drinking water to Shimla residents resulting into widespread protest demonstrations across town, police is busy registering FIRs against those leading such protests. However, undeterred by police action, people are continuing with demonstrations demanding adequate drinking water.

 On Tuesday, Shimla police had registered case against 14 CPM leaders and workers for protesting and trying to enter the municipal corporation office. A police official had even slapped a CPM worker during protest on Tuesday after which party leaders on Wednesday met DGP S R Mardi on the issue and demanded the registration of FIR against the official concerned.
 
 Even after registration of cases by police, people are continuing with their protest demonstrations for drinking water supply. On Wednesday, protests were held and roads were blocked in some parts of Shimla as people failed to receive water supply despite claims by the state government. Former Congress leader Harish Janartha led a protest at CTO.
 
 Congress councillors led by Kasaumpti MLA Anirudh Singh protested at Talland for around an hour and raised slogans against the government for its failure to provide drinking water to residents. Another protest was held at Sanjauli.
 
 Earlier on Monday, an FIR was registered against Congress councillor Sushma Kuthiala, her husband and son along with some others for holding a demonstration to demand water. In the FIR, the police has stated that some people had gathered at the irrigation and public health office at the Ridge Shimla and were shouting slogans against the state government for non supply of drinking water in Shimla city. 
 
 “After that they proceed to Oak Over and when they reached Marina Hotel, the police tried to stop them. However, Sushma Kuthiala along with her husband and son obstructed the police from discharging their government duty. The case is being investigated by Inspector Praveen Kumar, SHO of police station east,” the FIR stated. 
 
 Similarly, on Tuesday a case of unlawful assembly was registered at Shimla west police station wherein it was alleged on Monday around 25-30 people blocked the National Highway for half an hour, and shouted slogans against the government over to non-supply of drinking water at Boileauganj area. This case is being investigated by ASI Pratap, in-charge of police station Shimla West.
 
 Another case of unlawful assembly was registered against another group of 20-30 people, who had organized a dharna at Boileauganj in protest against the non supply of water. The protesters had sat on the road and obstructed traffic. 
 
 A delegation of CPM led by its Theog MLA Rakesh Singha on Wednesday met the Shimla DGP regarding a op slapping a party worker. The CPM has threatened that if an FIR was not registered against the police official involved in the case, then they would launch an agitation against police atrocity as several women were also reportedly manhandled by cops during the protest.
 
 
