MADURAIi: The two notorious rowdy elements - ‘Saguni’ Karthick and Muthu Irulandi - who were shot dead on the city outskirts on Thursday had a pistol in their possession. Police officials said that they were shot dead when they tried to fire at the police team which tried to arrest them.

 Besides, just 10 days back, two persons from Watrap in   district were arrested by the Madurai city police for possessing Two unlicensed country-made revolvers. 
 
 There have been many incidents of guns seizures in the past few years in Madurai. Most of the guns seized were country made revolvers and pistols. However, the one seized from the Saguni Karthick and Muthu Irulandi was a polished weapon. Investigation is still underway to ascertain the supplier or source. 
 
 When contacted, DCP V   said that there is no connection between the guns seized from two recent incidents. He said that the revolvers seized from the two persons from Watrap were bought from a person in Kerala. However, they are yet to ascertain the point of origin of the seized arms. He added that he cannot comment on the gun seized from the rowdies killed in the police shoot-out incident, since it was a judicial inquiry. 
 
 The gun seizures might indicate the prevalence of a gun culture among rowdy and anti-socials elements in Madurai. However, it not confined to Madurai, say police officers. It may be noted that Chennai police busted a gang and seized seven guns in Chennai and Trichy. Many including a police constable were arrested for trying to sell them a month back. 
 
 A police officer seeking anonymity said that most of the guns procured are from other states like  . They were disbursed through brokers in various places. On a few odd occasions, the guns seized by them originated from Kerala. Guns are bought at anywhere between Rs 40, 000 to Rs 1.5 lakh depending on the quality and type, he said. 
 
 Even though there has been multiple gun seizures, not many shooting incidents have taken place in Madurai and southern districts. However, in an incident which took place in October, 2016, Karuppasamy, 25, from Kovilpatti was shot dead at point-blank in a government bus. The accused, identified as   from Kovilpatti, who was later was arrested, murdered him to take revenge for his son’s murder. 
 
 According to a former rowdy, their life is always under threat from rivals. Escaping from an armed gang is rare once they are surrounded. Rowdy elements are increasingly carrying weapons to deter their rivals, he said.
 
 ‘Saguni’ Karthick and Muthu Irulandi have not used their gun despite the fact that they were involved in an array of murders in the past.
 
 
