NEW DELHI: After much struggle and public mudslinging between AAP and BJP, the   on Wednesday sent the file pertaining to the   of   to LG  . The government received nods from the municipal corporations earlier. 

 This has become a political hot potato as the sealing drive has left Delhi traders worried. There have been protests at various parts in the city since the sealings began in December last year. While the   has claimed that no sealing has happened on these 351 roads, BJP has contested it. 
 
 “Sending the file pertaining to 351 roads to Hon'ble LG today, as soon as we recd the proposal from MCDs. As soon as LG's approval is obtained, it will be presented before SC for its approval,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Wednesday.
 
 The government claimed that the file was sent to the LG for his approval as soon as it was submitted to the urban development minister Satyendar Jain by the three municipal corporations. This survey report had been pending with the corporations since 2006. 
 
 Sources in the government said that earlier the corporations had not certified the report, saying that the survey had been done long ago in 2006. That’s why the urban development department hadn’t cleared it. 
 
 But BJP said that the AAP government had to give its nod under pressure from the opposition, paving the way for legalising commercial activities on these roads. 
 
 “Finally, the hard work of Opposition yielded result. People were suffering but AAP was doing politics,” BJP’s Vijender Gupta tweeted in Hindi. 
 
 Gupta demanded AAP’s apology to the people of Delhi for this. “Our long struggle for notification of 351 roads has ultimately compelled the Kejriwal government to initiate the process of notification…The Congress government wasted seven years initially and then the AAP government wasted another three years to notify the roads,” Gupta added.
 
 When the LG clears it, the report would be presented before Supreme Court for its approval, an official said. When the approval comes, all 351 would be notified under the commercial and mixed-use category.
 
 
