New Delhi: The   (NSFs) have taken refuge in the Narinder Batra-led   ( ) to save their skins from the fawning clutches of the stringent national sports code. 

 
 
 In a closed-door meeting held at the IOA headquarters here on Saturday, almost all the representatives of the NSFs pleaded with the IOA management to help protect their autonomy and ensure less government interference. 
 
 
 
 
 
 IOA, too, felt the need to reach out to the government to curb its hyper-activism over the revised draft of the sports code, leading to PILs in various Courts challenging the election of   officebearers citing sports code violation.
 
 The huddle led to Batra immediately forming an eight-member committee, under his own chairmanship, to hold talks with the government in order to ensure smooth functioning between the IOA and the ministry. Apart from Batra, the committee comprises of  ,  ,  ,  , Anandeshwar Pandey, Anil Khanna and Sudhanshu Mittal. While the IOA may maintain that the committee will coordinate with the ministry on the sports code and other thorny issues concerning their autonomy, Saturday’s development could result in another standoff between the two bodies with the ministry pushing for the introduction of the revised draft at the earliest and its entirety.
 
 
 “There’s a general feeling among the NSF presidents and secretary generals, who attended the meeting, that the working attitude of the ministry and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) is not very forthcoming towards the NSFs. The ministry wants to curtail the NSFs’ autonomous status through the sports code. The members felt that instead of being the two wheels of the same cart, we should move together,” a senior IOA official, who was part of the gathering, told TOI.
 
 The relations between the ministry and the IOA have, of late, been rocky. Recently, Batra issued a diktat to member units to stay away from all future ‘Khelo India’ meetings since the IOA wasn’t involved in the programme as an important stakeholder. He had even derided the ministry officials by labeling them as “some jokers coming in from mars”. In its bid to become self-sufficient, the IOA even managed to rope in sponsors for the Indian contingent’s trip to the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games.
 
 The IOA meeting was necessitated to discuss the PIL challenging the election of Himanta Biswa Sarma as the president of the Badminton Association of India (BAI). The PIL has questioned Sarma’s election as he is also a health minister in Assam. However, the IOA cleared his appointment and asked him to continue in his post.
 
 
