RAIPUR: They are stared at, they are asked to come later or asked to just leave.... The transgender community in Chhattisgarh are stripped of their identity everytime they do something as simple as using a public toilet. 

 They have come together to demand separate gender neutral toilets to be set up in crowded public places. They say, they have to face humiliation everytime they go inside a washroom.
 
 Transmen prefer to use the men’s toilet, but they are teased when they enter, while the transwomen are mocked at or asked to leave. 
 
 Third gender community in   has demanded for separate ‘gender neutral’ toilets at least at “crowded” public places. 
 
 According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Sanitation in April last year the transgender community can use any public toilet they want to (men or women). In 2014, Supreme Court granted the third gender independent status, and ordered the government to provide basic facilities to the community. 
 
 There is no rule for construction of toilets for the third gender, however, the transgender community says that it is one of the most basic and important need for them.
 
 Maya Diwan Amrani, who runs a bakery unit in Raipur and likes to dress up in pant and shirt, says "Public toilets are a battleground for me. I only use the washroom when it is absolutely necessary and control myself for as long as I can," said Amrani, adding "Whenever I do I have to use a men’s toilet. I have to prepare myself mentally. If someone enters the toilet while I am using the toilet, I walk out myself. It’s very difficult.” 
 
 Maya says to avoid such a situation in movie halls, she uses the washroom before the interval when it isn't crowded or she only uses the toilet which have closed stalls.
 
 These incidents and prior planning just to use the washroom are too real for every member of the trans community.
 
 Bhopal, Mysore and Bhubaneswar have taken initiatives for separate toilets for trans people, why not Raipur as well? they ask.
 
 Vidya Rajpur of   who likes to wear a sari says entering a women’s toilet is a task in itself.
 
 "The women stare at us and freeze as if we were thieves. It’s uncomfortable for us. They get angry with us for entering."
 
 Another transgender said that it is not about discomfort, sometimes, we are even harassed.
 
 "We are touched inappropriately, people piss on us and even lock us inside toilets," they said. 
 
 “We are yet to get our space in jobs, family, society and even toilets. Government should pay attention towards our basic needs," Vidya said adding that at least crowded public places like bus stands, railway stations, collector’s premises should have one toilet for the trans -community.
 
 Secretary Social Welfare Department R Prasanna said, “District hospital in Kawardha has state’s first transgender toilet. However, we are in talks with other departments concerned and taking up issue for its implementation.”
 
