NOIDA: A 25-year-old passenger sitting next to the driver of a   bus died and 15 others were injured when the ‘speeding’ vehicle rammed a   bus at the   crossing in Sector 21-25 on Sunday morning.

 The deceased Ashutosh was a resident of Pali village in Hardoi. Witnesses said he fell through the main door of the private bus that had come off the hinges under the impact of the collision. He had suffered severe injuries on the head.
 
 Drivers of both the buses traded allegations, blaming the other for jumping the signal. The driver of the private bus, owned by Abhay Travels of Farrukhabad, has been arrested and a case has been registered against him for negligent driving.
 
 The front portion of the private bus was mangled while the rear door and a portion of the chassis of the DTC bus were damaged. Police said the private bus had been speeding and rammed the DTC bus in an attempt to navigate the crossing first.
 
 The Abhay Travels bus had left Farrukhabad with 50 passengers on board around 9pm on Saturday and was on its way to Loni. According to witnesses, the road was quite clear of traffic when the bus reached the crossing around 6.30am. The driver,  , claimed he had seen the green light and pressed the accelerator when two vehicles ahead of him moved.
 
 “The speeding DTC bus suddenly appeared from the right. I could not apply the brakes in time and my vehicle rammed the DTC bus,” Laxman said while lying on his hospital bed. Laxman had lost consciousness after the accident and suffered a fracture in the right hand and injuries on both his legs. Pankaj, the helper, escaped with minor injuries.
 
 Gaurav, Ashutosh’s brother, said he had boarded the private bus to go to Delhi. “The driver was rash and crashed into the DTC bus. My brother was sitting near the driver and was thrown off the bus through the gate due to the collision,” he said.
 
 The passengers who suffered major injuries were travelling in the private bus. The DTC bus had just 15 passengers. A team from Sector 12-22 police outpost rushed the victims to the district hospital and Prakash hospital. Ashutosh was declared dead on arrival at Prakash Hospital.
 
 The DTC bus (route number 34) was travelling from Sector 32 Noida bus depot to Lado Sarai in Delhi. Its driver, Vipin  , a resident of Jagriti Vihar in Ghaziabad, blamed the private bus driver for causing the accident. “I was driving straight when the private bus crashed into our bus in the middle. Some passengers suffered minor injuries and they were rushed to local hospitals,” he said.
 
 Manish Saxena, SHO, Sector 20 police station, said a case had been registered against the private bus driver under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 & 338 (causing hurt by act endangering life), 427 (mischief) and 304-A (causing death by negligence). “The accused has been arrested and both the vehicles involved in accident seized,” he said.
 
 DTC officials reached the police station after receiving information that one of its buses was involved in an accident. “We will cooperate with police in the investigation. The driver, Malik, was on our rolls and he had good conduct,” an official said.
 
 Kallu Mishra, the owner of the private bus, said he had sent a team to Noida to cooperate in the investigation.
 
 
