Nagpur: In a bid to fight unemployment among youth, ‘Times NIE Principals’ Seminar’ was conducted at a city hotel on Tuesday. The representatives of various schools across Nagpur spoke about basic changes needed in education to create quality professionals.

 Panelists Shiv Kumar Rao, entrepreneur in logistics sector, Swati Chouhan, prinicpal of Central India Public School in Kamptee, and Plex John, principal of Edify School, believed that imparting vocational training at school level can provide them exposure at an early age where they can have a sneak peek into the real world. It can change their perspective for life and help them take better decisions to secure their future, they said.
 
 On behalf of the industries, Rao said, “Dearth of opportunities and quality of education cannot be blamed completely for unemployment. Over the time, attitude of students has changed drastically too and they are no more inquisitive to learn new things. The tech savvy generation relies on the internet too much instead of working hard to generate solutions.”
 
 He was of the view that if schools and colleges focus on enhancing basic communication, computer and other skills, they can produce graduates who are industry ready. Simple values like honesty, table manners and social etiquettes can impress employers. Even a plain degree in business administration and commerce can get them a job if they develop hands-on techniques.
 
 The speakers suggested that joint collaboration between schools and industries can improve the situation. Chouhan said, “If kids are taken for industrial visits, they can practically observe the machines, equipment and learn about the different processes involved. The closer look will definitely trigger some thought process and have an impact.”
 
 Moderator Shweta Umre brought up different issues to cover all possible aspects of the topic. With the country facing skill gap, employer expectations are better met by apprentices.
 
 Pointing out the declining rate of traditional apprenticeship, Rao said, “The son of a welder does not want to become a welder even though he has inherited the skills. Same goes for others like driver, construction labourers, potters, electricians and many more. This can have adverse effects on the economy in long term.”
 
 He also appreciated the innovative business ideas of youngsters with rising trend of startup culture in the city. He asked the principals to encourage their students to take up entrepreneurship.
 
 Principals unanimously agreed on guiding the parents to develop healthy communication with their kids. This will help the children to express without hesitation, commit mistakes and learn from them.
 
 
