KOLKATA: Two days after an accident and the ensuing rioting at   in east Kolkata to a standstill for nearly three hours, VIP Road and EM Bypass were intermittently choked on Monday due to three separate incidents. Vehicles on VIP Road and EM Bypass moved at a snail’s pace and several thousand commuters coming from Baguiati towards Science City faced delays from as early as 6.30am. Traffic flow was slow till well past 1pm.

 A bus accident in Bangur was the first trigger. Around 6.45am, 62-year-old Usha Das was run over by a   route bus on the Ultadanga-bound flank of VIP Road. Das, a resident of New Town’s Adarshapally, worked as a cook in several Bangur households. She was crossing the high-speed VIP Road when the bus crushed her. Ironically, a pedestrian underpass has been built at Bangur to allow people to cross VIP Road without fear of being run over. But Das did not take it and paid dearly.
 
  
  
 
 Police took her to RG   where she was declared dead. Locals claimed the bus was being driven in a “rash and negligent manner” as there was another bus ahead that was bound for Howrah. The Ultadanga-bound flank was closed for 20 minutes before   clear the road and traffic resumed.
 
 A couple of kilometers away near the EM Bypass-Hyatt (Kadapara) intersection, an argument between auto drivers and a police constable snowballed into a confrontation and triggered a protest that slowed down on both flanks of EM Bypass around 10.30am.
 
 According to eye-witnesses, a constable pulled up an auto driver for flouting traffic rules. This led to an argument. When a traffic sergeant arrived at the spot, more auto rickshaw drivers joined the argument, leading to some jostling. The auto drivers alleged the sergeant had slapped one of them without reason while police claimed the men in uniform were heckled. The argument led to the formation of a long tail on both flanks of the Bypass. Traffic was slow for about half an hour.
 
 The inspection by senior police officers at Chingrighata crossing around noon added to the traffic woes. The normal commute time of 40-50 minutes between Baguiati and Science City took well over two hours on Monday.
 
 Rohit Basu Roy, who was coming from  , recalled how the AC bus he was on crawled along Bypass, especially between Kadapara and Chingrighata.
 
 “I was going to attend an office meeting near Ruby crossing. I had to call and excuse myself from it. Several others in my bus missed important appointments as well,” he said.
 
 
 
 
