NEW DELHI: "If my remarks offended someone, then I express my regret," defected   leader   today said as he fell one step short of offering an apology for his controversial remark against his former party member  . 

 Accusing the media of distorting his remarks, Agarwal said that his intentions were not to hurt anyone.
 
 "I had said something which was given a different angle by the media. All I can say is that I didn't intend to hurt anyone. I express my regret, if it did hurt anyone. I take back my words," he said.
 
  
  
 Agarwal, who left the Samajwadi Party to join hands with the saffron party, on Monday landed in a soup following a controversial statement where he had called his former party colleague, Jaya Bachchan, "a person who works and dances in films".
 
 "I have been compared with those who dance and work in films," Agrawal said, following his defection from SP.
 
 On being questioned, if he would tender an apology for his remark, for which he was widely criticized, the leader said "do you understand the meaning of "khed" (regret)."
 
 BJP was quick to distance itself from Agarwal's comment calling it "improper and unacceptable".
 
 "Shri Naresh Agarwal has joined Bhartiya Janata Party. He is welcome. However, his comments regarding Jaya Bachhan ji are improper and unacceptable," she said in a tweet. 
 
  
  
 BJP spokesperson  , too, criticized Agarwal for his remark and clarified that his party respects people from all fields and welcomes them in politics. 
 
 Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal was unequivocal in her condemnation. 
 
 "It is sad, if elected representatives will talk like that then what is the difference between them and roadside Romeos? Even men dance and sing in movies then why are such things said only for women?" She said.
 
 Congress leader Renuka Chowdhary questioned the loyalty of Agarwal saying that the former SP leader has a habit of changing political parties for his personal benefits.
 
 Jaya ji is an achiever, even before marrying Amitabh Bachchan she was famous as Jaya Bhaduri. Saari party ghumte hain (Naresh Agrawal), fayda dekh ke dusri party mein kood padte hain, ye mard ki pehchan hai? (He changes parties based on his personal interest. Is this what a man stands for?) What he thinks doesn't matter, question is what is BJP doing? The Congress leader said.
 
 Agrawal lost his bid for re-nomination to the Upper House to actor Jaya Bachchan.
 
