THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the decision by the government to grant bar hotels in all panchayats having population above 10,000 is being seen by many as a ploy to promote drinking, an analysis of the liquor sale in the last five years, a period that witnessed opening and closing of bars partially and completely, show that the sale of liquor has been almost steady.

 Liquor business entered a tumultuous phase with the closure of 418 sub-standard bar hotels based on Supreme Court’s order in March 2014. In the year immediately preceding the court order, the sale of liquor (IMFL) was 240.67 lakh cases, while that of beer and wine was 107.96 lakh cases. In the very next financial year after the closure of 418 bar hotels, the figure dropped only by a small margin and closed at 220.58 lakh cases and 95.59 lakh cases, respectively.
 
  
  
 
 The story was not much different in the 2015-16 financial year. In March 2015, due to the internal squabbles in the UDF, all the 302 bar hotels except 24 rated five-star were closed. The figures of sales from the period from March 2015 till June 2017 when the   government decided to grant bar licences to all the hotels above three star and above category show that the sales in these two years were almost at par with the sales in the previous years. Interestingly, the sales figures from June 2017 to February 2018, when all the bar hotels (except in the panchayat areas) were opened also has not increased much.
 
 Critics like V M Sudheeran, who has been vociferously fighting the LDF government’s decision to reopen all the bar hotels and the latest decision, however, says that this is only a beginning and the worst is yet to come. “There is a hidden agenda behind the government’s move. The government wants to set up bar hotels in every nook and corner of the state and this is the only thing that the government seems to be interested in, even more than basic issues like providing clean drinking water to the people,” he said.
 
 Experts who have been analyzing changes in liquor policies say that there is nothing that could make an impact in the new rule that says bar hotels can be opened in all places with a population more than 10,000 and are of significance tourism-wise.
 
 “When the bar hotels were functioning prior to the   order on distance factor, there were no regulations and bar hotels could be run anywhere,” said mediaperson Roy Mathew.
 
 He said that however, the church, which is the biggest critic of the LDF government’s liquor policy, is not qualified to lament about the government’s latest decision. “It can be seen that at least 30% of those who are in liquor business are believers. Also, 30% to 40% of all those who are regular drinkers in bars are also from the Christian community. The church should try to dissuade them from doing liquor business and from drinking rather than criticizing the government,” he said.
 
 “Most of the opposition to the Bevco outlets is not against drinking but against the trouble created around such an outlet. So, the government should ensure cheap and good quality liquor along with infrastructural facility for drinking,” said   a member of forum for better spirit, an informal group of likeminded people campaigning for responsible drinking.
 
