Chennai: If everything goes as planned, residents from the western suburbs will be able to take metro rides in and out of the city in a few years time.

 The Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) is conducting a feasibility study to extend the metro rail network up to Poonamallee under the ambitious 107.55km phase-II project. Once the project takes off, commuters from Poonamallee will be able to reach the city in less than 45 minutes.
 
 Officials said a detailed project report (DPR) to connect Poonamallee from Koyambedu CMBT via Porur, Virugambakkam and Valasarvakkam covering around 15km will be ready by the first quarter of this year. The extension of the line was planned at an additional cost of Rs 3,850 crore.
 
 CMRL officials said a field study is being conducted. “We are expecting the DPR to be ready in three or four months,” the official said.
 
 Work to study the localities began after chief minister K Palaniswamy announced at the state assembly last year that the 17-km corridor 4 from CMBT to Light House will extend up to Poonamallee with an idea to ease traffic congestion in the localities on the way. It includes Virugambakkam, Valsarvakkam, Porur, Kattupakkam, Kumananchavadi up to Poonamallee bus depot.
 
 The phase-II has three corridors — Madhavaram-SIPCOT covering 46.1km with 50 stations in corridor 3, Madhavaram-Sholinganallur covering 45.2km with 46 stations in corridor 5 and 17.1km from CMBT to Light House in corridor 4. Officials said corridor 4 will be an orbital line connecting all arterial roads including Anna Salai, Arcot Road and Poonamallee High Road through both phase-I and II. The project, awaiting approval from the Centre, with 104 stations is estimated to cost Rs 85, 047 crore.
 
 “The DPR will be sent separately for approvals and depending on that it will be decided if the extended line will be part of phase-II or as a separate extension project,” a metro official said.
 
 Following the change in the alignment in corridor 4, the stretch between Madhavaram to Sholinganallur in corridor 3 and Light House to Poonamallee in corridor 4 will intersect at Alwarthirunagar.
 
 
