LUCKNOW: Anand Kumar, the  , has dismissed speculation of him being nominated to the   with the support of  .

 In an exclusive interview with TOI on Monday, the BSP vice-president said that the rumours about his RS candidature were being fuelled by a section of people who wanted to malign the image of BSP and Mayawati who always stood against ‘parivarvaad’ (dynasty politics). Anand’s name started doing the rounds after Mayawati had on Sunday supported SP in the upcoming UP Lok Sabha bye-elections in lieu of a RS berth for her brother.
 
 “All such speculation are false… kuch log apni TRP badhane ke liye ye sab baatein ucchalte hain…,” he told TOI over the phone from Delhi.
 
 
 
 CM Yogi on Monday slammed the SP-BSP alliance for Gorakhpur and Phulpur parliamentary bypolls. “When they felt that chances of loot have become very difficult, they shook hands for survival as chor chor mausere bhai,” Yogi said, addressing public meet at Gorakhpur. Speaking in Jeetpur, CM Yogi called SP-BSP alliance as one of snake and mole.P 3
 
 
 
 SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday thanked BSP for extending support to his party candidates contesting the Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha bypolls.“Gorakhpur evam Phulpur ke upchunav mein samarthan ke liye Bahujan Samaj Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal samet anya sabhi dalon ka dhanwaad,” Akhilesh tweeted on Monday evening. Monday evening. P 5
 
 
 
 While elevating him as the BSP vice-president at a rally on April 14 last year after her defeat in 2017 UP assembly elections, Mayawati had announced that her brother would carry out party affairs in her absence in Delhi and not take up the position of MP, MLA or a minister. Reacting to Mayawati’s decision to support SP, Anand said his sister had clarified that the support was merely for the Lok Sabha bypolls and there was nothing concrete about BSP joining hands with SP or any other party for 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 “Just go through the press note issued by Behenji on the issue. It says it all. There is no confusion,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar, who is facing probe by income tax and ED for owning benami properties, accused BJP of targeting him for political gains. “People who have done something wrong are afraid. I have not done anything wrong. I am not afraid of BJP and its people,” Kumar said.
 
 
