Gone are the days when villain characters in serials were given an evidently wicked look. 

 Take a look at actor  , one of the most desirable men on Malayalam television and also one of its unconventional anti-heroes. The actor, who is noted the best for his baddie role in the serial Bharya, sports a variety of looks for the character, the latest of which is that of a knife sharpening expert. Arun, who hails from Thrissur, shares with us some exclusive details of his latest look, characters, family and more.
 
 
 
 The makers of my debut serial Soubhagyavathi spotted my photos on social media, and it paved the way to my first role in the serial, in 2014. It was quite an unplanned one, and the character was villainous. From there on, negative roles became my buddies. So far, I have been part of six serials and most of them gave my characters a touch of negativity. But, I play a good boy, Sooraj, in the serial Sthreepadam and as an artiste, I don’t find it tough to switch between positive or negative roles.
 
 
 
 Villains on the small screen too have evolved with time. Bharya’s anti-hero Sharath exploits women financially after marrying them and we often read such stories in the media. Fights and action aren’t his forte, but his cunning brain makes up for it, and he portrays several get-ups to put on the conman act. I guess it’s probably the first time that a serial character gets to don so many avatars. 
  
  
  
  
  So far, I have portrayed a Muslim guy named Shahjahan, a Punjabi man and in the upcoming schedules, the viewers will see me as an old man who is a knife sharpening expert. It’s a challenging role and I guess, that’s what an actor should do rather than sticking to comfortable roles.
 
 
 
 When I learnt that Sharath’s next get-up is that of a pagadi aka turban-sporting Sardarji, I searched on YouTube and learnt how to tie one. I also went to the Gurudwara in Thevara to perfect the craft and check out the Punjabi munda mannerisms. 
 
  Up next would be a dark-skinned knife sharpening expert and it took me about two hours just to darken my skin for it. The look also left me unrecognisable on the shooting location!
 It is challenging to keep transforming to varied persona and maintain it throughout the schedule, but when audience give great feedback, it’s all worth it. Recently, I also came across a real-life incident in which a woman was cheated by a man who repeatedly fakes marriage alliances for money. Her predicament was sad, and through my roles, I want to alert the audience against such conmen.
 
 
 
 Due to busy serial schedules, I miss playing with my three-year-old son, Dhruv. We share a great bond just like the one I had with my father, when I was a kid. On career front, I have been approached for several Tamil serial projects as well. But as I am committed to Bharya and Sthreepadam, so I had to reject them. Vilakkumaram was my first film and I wish to do more.
  
  
 
