LUDHIANA: Scientists from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) have come to help the state government and civic body find a possible solution to curb higher pollution levels in  . On Wednesday, a team of   officials visited the city and collected the required information through   officials regarding Buddha Nallah.

 Team members visited   sewerage treatment plant, which is unable to function due to excess discharge, especially industrial waste coming through dyeing units. MC officials who accompanied Neeri representatives claimed they were asked to take the team to the Jamalpur   for observation and details about the treatment plant. This STP has the capacity to treat 48 million litres of daily discharge, but actually more than 80mld water is being thrown in here, due to which it is unable to function properly.
 
 The project assistant from Neeri, Snehal Gole, said they had come for site survey, which they had already completed, and now they would report everything to their seniors for further directions. However, sources revealed that the state government had approached Neeri to find the best solution to the problem of pollution in the drain. The Neeri team will now prepare their report, and it will be submitted to the state government for further action. Recently, a meeting had taken place in Chandigarh, where senior officials had discussed about the pollution problem in the drain with Neeri officials.
 
 Notably, in 2009 also, a team of Neeri officials had visited the city and conducted a study on the drain. The study was conducted to check the discharge of waste water in the drain, and even at that time, Neeri — in its report — had clearly suggested not allowing any kind of direct discharge into the drain. However, that report hardly brought any changes in the existing position, as pollution levels in Buddha Nallah increased all the more. Therefore, it is yet to be seen if the government is able to implement Neeri’s recommendation. 
 
 
