Jaipur: The usual hustle bustle was missing from several markets of the city on Tuesday due to the Bharat bandh call circulated on social media. Police and   (RAF) personnel armed with batons and body armours were deployed at every nook and corner of the city to avert the repeat of April 2 bandh which witnessed widespread violence. 

 Prominent markets of the city like Chaura Rasta, Johari Bazar, Tripolia Bazar, Kishanpol Bazar,Chandpol, Nehru Bazar, Bapu Bazar were partially affected by the bandh call. In the morning, majority of the shops remained shut, by late afternoon the shopkeepers began opening up their shops. Other though kept their shutters half open.
 
 However, other markets such in  , Mahesh Nagar, Sodala and Jhotwara wore a deserted look with shopkeepers voluntarily shutting down shops to express their protest against the violence that was reported on April 2 during SC/ST call for Bharat bandh.
 
 Dashrath, shopkeeper at Barkat Nagar area, said that all 600 shops of the market remained bandh. "There was no prior meeting or any direction from the market association. We decided to shut shops because we were harassed on April 2 by protestors. They forcefully shut our shops," he said.
 
 Some of the leading malls at Jawahar Circle and C-Scheme locality were also closed on Tuesday. The medical shops were open across all areas except for Chomu. In   area of Jaipur rural too, the bandh had widespread effect. 
 
 Vishwas Gupta, a trader Tripolia said that decision to shut down shops was taken individually by shopkeepers. "Our protest was peaceful, we did not force any body," he said.
 
 Rajkumar Paldiya, secretary of Ghat Gate market association said that all shops in his area were shut down. "Customers themselves did not flock to the market. We had decided to join the protest because we are very angry with events that took place on April 2," he said.
 
 The police had also made elaborate arrangements ahead of the   call. "We had taken all steps to ensure that no harm comes to the common people," said city police commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.
 
 The city police's Abhay command and control was used by the senior officials to keep a hawk eye on miscreants. Commissioner added that total 16 people were detained and the day passed peacefully.
 
 
