LUDHIANA: Residents will shortly get a chance to shop in the first ‘smart’ market of the city.

 The market is coming up on 1-km long stretch falling under Southern Bypass bridge alongside Sidhwan Canal till   railway crossing.
 
 The firm, hired by the municipal corporation, has already started the construction work. The officials claimed that in the next few months, the work will be completed and they will be able to start the market for the public.
 
 Around 100 shops are to be constructed in this market equipped with CCTV cameras, ultra-modern washrooms, security guards and entry and exit gates. Prices of items will be displayed outside shops. People will get every type of item including fruits, vegetables, grocery, cosmetic, medicines and other daily necessary items. However, liquor shop won’t be allowed to open in the market.
 
 An official said the company will construct these shops for the department and will also bring shopkeepers to the market. He said in return, the MC will get licence fee and other charges from the company. He also claimed that market will be one-of-its-kind and will be first in the state.
 
 MC secretary J S Sekhon said they have hired ADVISION for this task and it has already started the construction work. He claimed that people would like this concept as there was no such place where they could get items of daily needs at one place.
 
 However, the concept of this market received mixed response from city residents.  , a resident of Model Town, said instead of developing new markets, the department should first complete the already announced project of developing   and Ghumar Mandi markets which they had promised some two years ago.
 
 Raising question marks over the success of this market, a city-based architect and also one of the members of board of directors of Ludhiana Smart City Limited   said idea of developing a ‘smart’ market with all essential things at one place is no doubt good, but the selection of site is not fine. He said at this point, the people who will come to the market will face traffic jam as this road connects Sarabha Nagar with BRS Nagar.
 
 
 
