CHANDIGARH: The   has dismissed the appeal of PGI against an order of   directing it to pay Rs 6.6 lakh to Sector 15 residents for medical negligence, directing it to pay the amount.

 The commission has said the hospital could hold an internal inquiry, fix responsibility of doctors and recover the money that has to be paid. The   on December 7, 2011, told PGI to pay Rs 6.6 lakh as compensation along with litigation cost of Rs 10,000 to three daughters of Pritpal Kaur, 55, who lost her life due to alleged negligence by doctors.
 
 
  
 
 PGI, in its appeal, had stated the UT commission proceeded on surmises and conjectures, ignoring the expert opinion given by   and Hospital, Sector 32. The counsel for PGI had said without any direction from the UT commission, the complainant produced an expert opinion from a private cardiologist, Dr  , which was not authentic.
 
 The UT commission “erroneously accepted the opinion from the independent doctor, whereas rejected the expert opinion”. “Dr Grover had an element of personal animosity with the appellants having served PGI earlier, and having indulged in litigation for the post of director of the institute from time to time,” the hospital had said in its appeal.
 
 The counsel for the complainants submitted proper treatment and monitoring of such a patient was not possible without hospitalisation. “The PGI doctors had knowledge of patient’s restrictive cardiomyopathy. Despite the patient’s critical condition, she was made to run from one OPD to another. Her blood pressure was as low as 70/50. She was in diastolic heart failure, dehydrated and needed immediate treatment. Instead of admitting her in CCU/ICU, the doctors discharged her wrongly. The medicines were discontinued; there was no monitoring in the house, which deteriorated her health and led to her death,” the counsel said.
 
 After hearing both the sides the national commission said doctors at PGI from the departments of ophthalmology, ENT, medicine and cardiology failed in their duty to provide reasonable care and treatment to the woman. The allegations of medical negligence levelled in the complaint, thus, stand proved, the commission ruled.
 
 The most discussed case at PGI was of Anupama Sarkar, a 16-year-old girl who had died due to delay in treatment, in 2012. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission had ordered PGI to pay Rs 17 lakh in compensation to parents of Anupama who died because of complications arising from delay in treatment. “The doctors on contract and under   are insured. If they are found guilty of medical error, that amount is paid from that amount,” said Dr G Dewan, director health services, UT.
 
