PATNA: Upbeat over her biggest achievement so far by shooting gold medal in the women’s double trap final in the 21st   in Gold Coast, Australia, on Wednesday, Bihar’s pride   now eyes the yellow metal in the Asian Games and the World Championship. 

 The 26-year-old from Giddhaur in Banka district of   called her victory the greatest achievement so far. “I’m very thrilled and excited as this one is the highest medal of my career. I still couldn’t believe that I won. I was nervous throughout the game, but also confident that I can do it,” she told this correspondent over the phone from Australia after edging Emma Cox of the host country in the shoot-off by scoring cumulative 96.
 
 “My happiness is double because of another reason, that shooting will not be a part of 2020 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham (England) due to some reasons. So, this medal is special for me and I’ll cherish it for long and will further focus on improving my performance,” said Shreyasi, whose grandfather Kumar Surendra Singh and father Digvijay Singh (former Union minister) served as the president of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI). Her mother Putul Singh is also a former MP from Banka.
 
 Sharing her future plans, the shooter said she wanted to represent India in the Asian Games to be held in Indonesia in August 2018. “I was never disappointed with my failure and always took it as a challenge. My performance keeps getting better with every game. But I think I still have a long way to go,” she said.
 
 “Todays’ game was very interesting and I am much satisfied with my performance. We tied in the final round with 96 points. But in the shoot-off round, I hit both the clay targets while Cox missed one. It feels good that I’m the first Indian woman to grab the gold medal in women’s double trap event. I hope my victory would inspire other Indian women, who want to flourish in this career,” said an elated Shreyasi, who had won a silver medal in the double trap event at the 2017 Commonwealth Shooting Championships in Brisbane, Australia. She had also won a silver medal in the 2014 Games in Glasgow, Scotland and represented the country in two events at the 2010 Delhi Games, but failed to win any medal.
 
 
