SHIMLA: Following the Nurpur bus accident, chief minister   held a high-level meeting in Shimla on Thursday to review the transportation system of private schools in the state. The government now wants to implement   guidelines about the school buses strictly. In the meeting, it was decided that every vehicle used to carry schoolchildren must have a driver with a minimum experience of five years in driving such category of vehicles and must not have any record of traffic offences. In addition, all the related provisions for safe plying of students to school and back home must be efficiently implemented.

 The Nurpur school bus accident had killed 27 people, including 23 children, on Monday.
 
 A high level   constituted under the chairmanship of chief secretary   to regulate traffic safety issues pertaining to private schools in the state has been directed to give its report within four days so that recommendations could be finalized and effectively enforced for the safety of students. 
 
 The committee has been asked to recommend steps to be taken by private schools to involve parents and local community for safe transportation of students. Chawdhary has assured the chief minister that committee will submit its suggestions within the stipulated time period.
 
 Thakur said that main focus should be on strengthening and regulation of existing laws and guidelines applicable for buses and taxis and other means of transport for transportation of students by private schools. The meeting also decided to undertake an extensive drive across the state in the next 10 days in which regional transport officers and sub divisional magistrates would check buses or vehicles being used by schools. These checks would be repeated every three months and government would also consider making rules for passing of vehicles more stringent. It was also decided to conduct medical check-up of drivers of school buses. 
 
 “Strict action should be taken against vehicles carrying excess of its permitted seating capacity. Buses carrying students should have all the required equipment, such as first aid box and fire extinguisher among others,” said Thakur. He said that all the guidelines issued by the CBSE, Supreme Court and National Disaster Management Authority would be effectively implemented. He said effective feedback mechanism must be evolved to check and improve implementation of existing laws. All the buses owned by the private schools must be painted yellow and those owned by   being used as school buses must have ‘School Bus’ written boldly in the front and rear, he added.
 
 He said that any violation in driving must be dealt strictly and there must be appropriate permits for vehicles to carry students and authorities concerned must launch campaign to tackle violations of safety measures. 
 
 Road safety measures
 
 Committee set up to regulate traffic safety issues and involve parents and local community for safe transportation of students
 
 Regional transport officers and sub divisional magistrates to undertake an extensive state-wide drive in the next 10 days to check buses and other vehicles used by schools
 
 Buses of private schools must be painted yellow and those of HRTC used as school buses must have ‘School Bus’ written boldly in the front and rear
 
 Buses carrying students to have all the required equipment, like first aid box and fire extinguisher
 
 All guidelines issued by CBSE, Supreme Court and National Disaster Management Authority to be effectively implemented
 
 Make rules for passing of vehicles more stringent
 
 Conduct medical check-up of drivers of school buses
 
 
