INDORE: Indore cell of state cyber police on Sunday arrested another foreigner who was involved in extorting people by threatening to upload objectionable videos of them.

 Kingsley Chibueze, a 38-year-old resident of Meniru Street in Enugu of  , was arrested from Sarita Vihar area in New Delhi. 
 
 On April 26, police had arrested a Tanzanian woman and her accomplice from Delhi for extorting Rs 4 lakh from an Indore-based businessman by threatening to upload his objectionable video that they had taken by making him consume a drink laced with drugs. The 38-year-old woman identified as Shyamshu alias Glory Shabani, a resident of Arusha in East Africa’s Tanzania, was arrested and sent to jail. 
 
 During further investigation and while interrogating another woman Reeta Katju – whose bank account was used by the   in illegal cash transfer- police came across Kingsley. 
 
 Kingsley had been using Reeta’s account by transferring the illegal money into it. Like Reeta, he had rented many accounts in order to channelize the money received from extorting people. 
 
 Police learnt that the account owned by Reeta was opened in February and in two months Rs 16 lakh were transferred into the account. The woman was traced to Singapore by the cops and some sources claimed that she had rented her bank account and handed over her ATM card to the accused only for Rs 5,000 per month. She was employed with the Indian Airlines and had given her account to the accused ‘on rent’. 
 
 Police said that Kingsley had come to city in 2011 on a three-month business visa and had been involved in illegal activities in the country since then. 
 
 The kingpin of the entire gang Obizie had fled from the country and had been operating the gang from Africa. Obizie’s accomplices used to send him money through ‘Hawala’ operators. 
 
 Kingsley told police that a large number of Africans with expired visas were staying in the country and were a part of his gang. 
 
 In order to dodge his arrest, Kingsley did not stay at a rented apartment for more than a few months. He kept changing his residences for past few years and had stayed in Chatarpur, Sarita Vihar, Basant Kunj and Greater Noida. 
 
 Police have informed the Nigerian embassy about Kingsley’s arrest and the officials have asked for information on his visa and other details from Foreigner Regional Registration Offices (FRRO). 
 
 Cyber SP said that the FRRO had informed them that the accused Shyamshu had come to the country in 2016 on a tourist visa and did not return after that. 
 
 
