MUMBAI: A day after trapping the   brothers, owners of 1Above restobar, police arrested their absconding partner   around 7.30am on Thursday near a five-star hotel on Marine Drive.

 All three were produced in Bhoiwada court on Thursday. Magistrate V B Bohra sent them to police custody till January 17. Mankar, Kripesh Sanghvi and Jigar Sanghvi face multiple charges, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder, after 14 persons were killed when a fire swept through their terrace-top restobar and the adjoining Mojo’s Bistro. They had gone underground immediately after the December 29 fire.
 
 The police were tightlipped about who tipped them off, but said Mankar reached Mumbai from Yavatmal, where he had been hiding, around midnight on Thursday to apparently meet a friend who could speak to some lawyer for him. “All these days he was hiding in Yavatmal, which happens to be his native place and some of his relatives have houses there,” said a senior police officer.
 All three were not using any cellphone to avoid being traced. The police are now looking for their phones. Kripesh and his brother Jigar were arrested on Wednesday night when they came to meet a lawyer in a Khar eatery. Their arrested friend   had gave them away to the police.
 
 The three 1Above partners were produced in court amid heavy bandobast. Their lawyer Kiran Jain questioned the applicability of section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) to his clients. “The fire broke out at Mojo’s Bistro and spread to 1Above. They have written to the PM, the city police, fire department that we were not responsible,” said Jain. He pointed out that the police booked the Mojo’s owners only after a fire brigade report that the blaze started in their restaurant.
 
 
  
 “If the trio was innocent, why did they flee and did not help anyone? Moreover, 1Above had no licence for hookah parlour but they were running it,” said public prosecutor  . One partner of Mojo’s, Yug Tuli, is on the run. The other,  , was arrested on January 6, the day the fire report came in.
 
 Jain said his clients had panicked after the incident and they “surrendered” since they want to face the prosecution. He said since his clients were now available, there was no need for custodial interrogation. But court remanded them in police custody till January 17. The bail applications of two managers of 1Above were also rejected.
 
 The remand application said the emergency exit at 1Above was found closed at the time of the fire and no measures were taken to help the customers. “We want to find out if there are more partners involved. The owners of 1Above had made unauthorised construction, and they did not cooperate in the probe.”
  
 
  
