WASHINGTON: President Trump on Tuesday ordered a ban on the so-called “bump stocks” that turn semi-automatic weapons into machine guns amid growing pressure from American high school student activism on gun control issues. High schoolers in Florida and in many other parts of the country were marching to state Capitols and legislatures and organising to challenge the gun lobby even as they faced vicious political attacks from gun-loving conservatives.

 
 In one particularly egregious incident, a staff member of a Florida lawmaker called two of the survivors of the Parkland school shooting “actors” who went around giving interviews in various shooting crisis situations. The Congressmen subsequently fired the aide and apologised to the already traumatized students and their families, but attacks and snide references to the students’ (young) age and the support they are getting from the liberal media coursed through the conservative discourse.
 
 The two students who were dubbed “actors”, Emma Gonzalez and David Hogg, have become figureheads of a growing movement among high schoolers to force changes to gun laws, even as Conservative-driven and Republican-led legislatures across America are hunkering down to resist any significant changes. The Florida legislature itself shot down Democratic efforts to bring about gun control measures.
 
 Meantime, the South Carolina legislature considered a bill that would make it illegal for a person to expose their skin or underwear by wearing their pants “three inches below the crest of his ileum” — the top of the hips.
 
 President Trump appeared to realise the gravity of the situation. “Whether we are Republican or Democrat, we must now focus on strengthening Background Checks!” he tweeted, amid reports that he was considering even stronger gun control measures although his remarks were dismissed as tokenism considering the gun lobby spent more than $50million backing him.
 
 Earlier in the week, Trump was panned for conflating the Florida shooting incidents with the Russia probe to criticize the FBI amid growing youth anger across the country against gun violence, and school shooting in particular.
 
 Local students converged in front of the   to rally for gun control even as nationwide protests and marches were planned, including a rally on March 24 for which Oprah Winfrey and George Clooney (who pledged $ 500,000 for it) have lent their support.
 
 But conservative lawmakers, activists, and the rightwing media have been unrelenting in attacking activist students. Some have doubted the motives of student activists while others have warned against left-wing elements hijacking their movement.
 
 Among those who have doubted the bonafides of the students is   Jr, currently in India promoting his realty business, who liked a pair of tweets that suggested that shooting survivor David Hogg was a creation of the “mainstream media”, while revealing he is the son of an FBI agent. “Could it be that this student is running cover for his dad who Works as an FBI agent at the Miami field office Which botched tracking down the Man behind the Valentine day massacre? Just wondering,” read one of the tweets that Trump Jr liked.
 
 Meanwhile in a familiar argument, the Conservative radio commentator Rush Limbaugh maintained that the Parkland school shooting outcome could have been different if the football coach who died in the incident had been armed. “Imagine if he’d some ability to stop (the attack) without dying himself... We have armed security at virtually every public entity in this country, except schools. For some reason, they are a gun-free zone and everybody that wants to shoot up a school knows that they are going to be the only one armed.” 
 
