RAIPUR: As many as 300 naxals were reportedly killed in separate encounters with security forces in Chhattisgarh in the last two years, state Home Minister Ramsewak Paikra told the   on Tuesday.

 The minister gave this information while replying to the issue of naxals raised by opposition MLAs in the House.
 
 Referring to the February 18 Naxal attack in Elarmadgu area of Sukma district, the opposition legislators said the development programmes launched by the state government in the Left Wing Extemism (LWE)-affected areas remained only on papers, while both the security forces and common citizens are getting killed in the Maoist violence.
 
 Congress MLAs, including state party chief Bhupesh Baghel, Satyanarayan Sharma, Dhanendra Sahu and others, and one independent legislator Dr Vimal Chopra sought a discussion on the issue by moving an adjournment motion notice.
 
 Home Minister Ramsewak Paikra, while replying to the admissibility of the adjournment motion notice, said owing to the developmental policies of the state government, coupled with successful Anti-Naxal Operations by security forces, the Maoist activities have considerably declined in the state.
 
 In the core Maoist areas, over 500 kms of roads have been constructed and at the same time dismantled bridges and culverts were repaired.
 
 Besides, employment-oriented works were also launched, he said.
 
 "So far, since 2016, as many as 300 naxals were reported to have been killed in 440 encounters with security forces in the state. Of them, bodies of 225 ultras were recovered," he said.
 
 "During this period, 2,160 Maoists were arrested, while 577 weapons and 597 landmines were recovered. Moreover, impressed by the state government's surrender and rehabilitation policy, 1,589 naxals surrendered," he added.
 
 Security forces have successfully managed to penetrate into Maoists bastions in Bijapur, Sukma, Narayanpur and Dantewada as part of its 'Operation Prahar' 1 and 2 conducted last year, he said.
 
 So far this year, dozens of naxals were gunned down by the security forces in 32 encounters, of which, 13 bodies were recovered, he added.
 
 Talking about the   (on February 18), Paikra said the joint team of Special Task Force (STF) and District Reserve Guard (DRG) while showing utmost bravery, gave a befitting reply to naxals during the four hour-long encounter and inflicted severe losses to them.
 
 "However, two DRG assistant constables- Madkam Handa and Mukesh Kadti were martyred in the gunfight," he said.
 
 Hence, it is unfair to say that the state government doesn't have any policy against combating LWE, he said.
 
 Subsequently, Speaker Gaurishankar Agrawal rejected the motion stating that since the reply of state government has been tabled, there is no point admitting the Motion. 
 
