PATNA: The fate of thousands of students, who wrote their classes X and XII board exams, will be decided in May and June. The   (CBSE), Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) and Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) are likely to announce the results in these two months.

 According to a CBSE official at Patna’s regional office, only the evaluation of physical education paper is left and will be completed in a couple of days. “The re-examination of Class XII economics paper on Wednesday is likely to delay the announcement of results,” the official said on Tuesday and added the Patna region (Bihar and Jharkhand) was ahead of others in evaluation of answer-sheets this year.
 
 The head examiner at one of the centres in the city told this reporter it would take another 10 days to complete the evaluation of economics answer-sheets. “The CBSE will probably declare the Class X results in the last week of May and that of Class XII at least two days prior to the results of Class X,” he said.
 
 Altogether 1.85 lakh students wrote the CBSE’s Class X exams and 93,376 examinees took the Class XII exams in the Patna region this time.
 
 The CISCE expects to wrap up the evaluation process in three days or so. The council’s city coordinator Farhat Hasan said, “We are likely to announce the results of classes X and XII between May 16 and May 18.” 
 
 At least 2,800 students appeared for the Class X (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) exams and 900 took the Class XII (Indian School Certificate) examinations in Patna.
 
 The evaluation of Matric and Intermediate answer-sheets as well as the scanning of OMR sheets have been completed.
 
 “The results are being compiled. While Inter results will be declared in mid-May, Matric results will be out in the first week of June,” BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said.
 
 Around 17.7 lakh candidates appeared for the Matric exams at 1,426 centres, whereas 12.08 lakh students wrote the Inter exams at 1,384 centres in Bihar this year.
 
 
