MARGAO: In an effort to tackle the growing   menace in Goa, the state government has initiated a scheme wherein an incentive of Rs 5 lakh will be provided to 10 village panchayats that emerge as best performers in managing their garbage. 

  director Sandhya Kamat told reporters at a Swachh   Mission event that performance of panchayats on   management will be evaluated by Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC). 
 
 
  
 
 The evaluation will be based on 10 factors — whether the site for waste management is demarcated and operational, whether door-to-door collection is done through an agency or workers, the efficacy of the door-to-door collection, whether segregation at source is done, the number of black spots, quantity of dry waste and refused derived fuel (RDF) sent to GWMC, whether wet waste is processed effectively within the jurisdiction of the panchayat or sent for processing, whether village waste management plan has been done, whether garbage management committees has been formed and is monitoring collection, and whether complaint registering mechanism is in place. 
 
 At their respective gram sabhas, a resolution ought to be passed fixing a separate garbage tax for residential houses and commercial establishments in the village.
 
 
  
 
 Kamat said, “The 191 village panchayats in Goa will be provided an annual financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh towards door-to-door collection, segregation and disposal of garbage, including dry plastic waste, within their jurisdiction. The panchayats will be divided into four categories – those within the vicinity or periphery of 12 kms of the airport will receive an additional Rs 7 lakh; those situated on the coastal belt or with tourism potential will receive an additional Rs 5 lakh; suburban located panchayats on the boundary of the four major municipalities of Mapusa, Panaji, Margao and Ponda will receive an additional Rs 5 lakh and those having a weekly village market or whose annual income is upto 25 lakh will receive an additional Rs 3 lakh.”
 
 The funds will be provided under the Goa Panchayats (Grants to Tackle Garbage Menace) scheme, 2017 which will be valid till December 31, 2023. “The objective of the scheme is to empower village panchayats to effectively collect, segregate, treat and dispose of garbage within their jurisdiction,” Kamat said.
 
 To avail of the scheme, the panchayat will have to adopt a resolution at its fortnightly meeting requesting the director of panchayats to sanction the grants. Within 10 days, the panchayat secretary will have to prepare and submit a detailed proposal to the block development officer (BDO) who in turn will scrutinise it along with the directorate of panchayat’s extension officer (rural engineering) or junior engineer before forwarding it to the director within 15 days of receiving it. 
 
 The director will scrutinise the proposal, either approving it and sanctioning the grants or rejecting it and informing the concerned panchayat. The first installment of 30% of total eligible grants will be released in April or May following which the GWMC will evaluate and issue a certificate to the panchayat. Upon production of this certificate, the next installments of 30% and 40% of the total eligible grants will be released in the months of September and January, respectively. The sanctioned grants will be provided only once during the financial year. The grants can also be utilised for making cages for collection of plastic, purchasing tricycles for collecting garbage, etc. However, purchase of bailing machines is prohibited under this scheme.
 
 
