PATNA: Universities in state are all set to introduce   (CBCS) at the post-graduation stage from the new academic session commencing in July this year.   is busy finalizing the uniform ordinance and regulations of   and getting the syllabi of PG courses revised as per the new system.

 Sources in the chancellor’s secretariat said governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik is very keen on introducing CBCS in all the universities of the state at the earliest. Necessary formalities like formulation of ordinance and regulations have already been completed. Copies of the ordinance were sent to all the universities for seeking their feedback or suggestions, if any, latest by April 17. Now as the deadline has already elapsed, the chancellor is likely to accord his approval to the CBCS ordinance soon.
 
 Moreover, the Raj Bhavan has also initiated necessary steps for revision of curriculum of all PG academic programmes in the light of CBCS. It has been decided that the syllabus of a particular subject will be revised by a particular university with the help of all other universities where this subject is taught. The universities which have been entrusted with the job of revision of syllabi of different subjects as per the   model syllabi are Patna University (physics, mathematics, geography, personnel management and industrial relations, statistics, biochemistry, English, Urdu, Arabic, Music and home science); Magadh University (economics, history, ancient Indian history, Magahi, chemistry, Buddhist studies and social work); B R A Bihar University (botany, Hindi, Persian and electronics),   (zoology, anthropology, computer science, sociology, Bengali and political science), Veer Kunwar Singh University (philosophy and Bhojpuri), L N   (psychology, commerce, Maithili), B N   (biotechnology and industrial microbiology) and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (Sanskrit).
 
 Even though the universities were directed to complete this exercise of syllabi revision latest by April 25, no university is reported to have done it so far. “Patna University received this information a bit late and the work could not be started on time. But, now the departments have taken up the revision work in right earnest and the syllabi are likely to be revised soon,” said vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh. 
 
 The UGC had directed the universities to implement CBCS both at undergraduate and post-graduation level from the 2015-16 academic session itself.
 
 CBCS allows students an easy mode of mobility to various educational institutions spread across the world along with the facility of transfer of credits they earn. It has certain basic elements, including semesters, credit system, grading, credit transfer and comprehensive continuous assessment. The assessment is done semester wise. There is flexibility in creating the curriculum and assigning credits based on the course content and hours of teaching, said Munger University VC Ranjit  , who has been emphasizing upon its implementation right from the beginning. 
 
 
