

 
 
 
 Should be partly. Export has to be a piece of the equation but it could not be like China. China is a $2.5 trillion of exports, India is some $270 billion. It’s about one ninth or one eighth. So If India wants to be a $10 trillion economy, like China, India could not do $2 trillion of exports. It’s almost impossible.
 
 
 
 
 Absolutely. 17 years ago, when the government invited me to give advice, they all asked me what’s China’s secret? I said three words invest, invest, invest. Some of my friends in the ministry of finance said you are going to have a financial crisis. I said yes, you are so smart, you must have been to Harvard. I said yes, we have financial crisis. If you think like that you will always be on the ground level. That’s the conversation we had then and we should be having the same conversation now.
 
 
 
 
 I had said pass a land acquisition law for infrastructure. Mandatory acquisition of land that’s what China did almost 30 years ago. Without that you cannot do infrastructure. Without infrastructure, don’t talk about GDP rising, doesn’t make sense. The second is to set up coastal enclave economy, where the existing rules don’t apply like Shenzen. These are production-based enclave economies. Eventually, they will become big cities like Shenzen. The third, I said privatize state-run enterprises to finance infrastructure. At that time, money was still difficult to come and that was a source of revenue. Now, that is less important because the world is full of capital. The first two issues are still relevant, very important. You know what they did with the export processing zones? They got these project-based export processing zones. It was just crony capitalism, gave benefits to some people. It’s terrible.
 
 
 
 
 Absolutely. You cannot start too many. Why Shenzen was successful? Because, it was next to Hong Kong. It was a draw for the people from the inland. Inside these enclaves, there was nothing earlier. So, if we don’t tax them, it’s okay because they are creating something. Eventually, we will tax them like now they are taxing Shenzen.
 
 China is one of India’s largest trading partners.
 
 
 
 
 There are some manufacturing India can take from China. You have to think what you can take from China. You cannot start the old trick of high tariff, then people import components to assemble and then make a profit. That’s terrible. When you start something, the whole value chain should be here. For example, construction equipment. You have to have the construction demand within the country. It will be a whole value chain. That will create greater jobs for people who are not educated and a lot of physical industrial assets. They get the money and they eventually buy property. Turning labour into capital. It’s self-fulfilling.
 
 
 
 
 It’s the highest valuation in over 100 years. A crash is inevitable. I think Trump put the last straw in them is the deficit. Deficit could drive up interest rates. What takes a stock market bubble is the interest rate.
 
 
 
 
 Next year, we could have a market crash. First, the dollar would be under pressure, the US has a $1 trillion deficit for this year, the bond market will get freaked out and the dollar would come under pressure and interest rates will shoot up and the stock market will be brought down. This is the scenario I see for next year.
 
 
 
 
 For an emerging economy like India, I never believe in this kind of standard economic stuff. The most important thing is currency stability. The monetary policy should be about maintaining currency stability first because without currency stability you cannot have proper economic development. Interest rate policy should be aimed at maintaining currency stability and give businesses the right environment to invest and accumulate capital.
 
 
 
 
 India is picking up. The infrastructure environment is catching up pace but it is not leading the economic growth yet. If India wants to be a $10 trillion economy, do you know what a $10 trillion economy is? China’s electricity system is 1500 gigawatts. I want to be a $10 trillion economy by 2030, you have to think about how you are going to build this? Each year how much you build and how you are going to build these. Step by step you have to write down, you just cannot have a slogan and that’s it. You must have a plan.
 
 
 
 
 Infrastructure has been a perennial disappointment. It is the bottleneck in India. Why India is inflation prone? It has got a lot to do with infrastructure. 
 
