CHITTORGARH: Clad in traditional dresses, waving swords and raising ‘Jai Jauhar, Jai Bhawani’ slogans, over 500 Rajput women marched from   Sthal at Chittorgarh fort to Jyoti Temple at Jauhar Smriti Sansthan premises on Sunday to register their protest against the release of the controversial film ‘Padmaavat’.

 Following the intervention of senior community leaders, the Shatrani Manch has dropped the threat of carrying out selfimmolation on January 24. Instead, they will file a petition to commit suicide at the apex court. The manch also threatened to oppose the presence of film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and   chief Prasoon Joshi in Rajasthan. Joshi expected to attend a session at Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) later this week.
 
 
 “Rajputs are law abiding citizens if our honour is respected,” said  , joint secretary, Shatrani Manch, Chittorgarh.
 
 
 
 
 Chittorgarh: Rathore said, “The Shatranis do not want to break the law, which is why we have dropped the self-immolation bid and the call to commit Jauhar. As the Supreme Court (SC) has granted permission to release the controversial film on the basis of freedom of expression, the Shatranis are exercising their freedom of expression by seeking permission to commit mass suicide.”
 
 Fearing action from the police, the Shatranis refused to divulge their next action plan but threatened that the situation in the state and the country would go out of control if the film was released.
 
 The Sunday’s Swabhiman Rally was held following the SC order that struck down the ban on the film in Rajasthan,  , Gujarat and Haryana.
 
 Manch members gathered at the historic Padal Pole and proceeded toward the Jauhar site, singing songs and raising slogans. At the Jauhar Sthal, the emotionally charged group of women raised slogans against Bhansali. The core members held swords while taking the pledge to not allow the release of the film.
 
 “Is Rani Padmini only a mother figure for Rajputs? Is she not the same for  ? Prime Minister   must act before the sentiments of Hindus are hurt,” said Mahendra Kanwar, an octogenarian from Bhilwara.
 
