PATNA: The construction work of a new multistorey (B+G+5) Patna collectorate building on its existing premises near   would begin by June this year, said Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi on Saturday.

 Several district administration offices have already been shifted to Hindi Bhawan and Executive Awas at Chajjubagh to pave way for the construction of the new building.
 
 The offices of social welfare, land acquisition, statistics and revenue departments of the district administration have already shifted, the DM told this newspaper. “Some offices have also shifted to Transit Hostel near the Income Tax roundabout and social welfare department office near Subhas Park at Chajjubagh for the time being. The remaining offices, including DM office, treasury and record room would be shifted before April 30,” he said.
 
 All offices of district administration will function from the alternative locations till the new building is constructed.
 
 Earlier, the state cabinet in its meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Nitish Kumar on March 20 sanctioned Rs186.42 crore for the new Patna collectorate building. The dome-shaped building would come up in 3.5 lakh square feet area. It would be constructed by the building construction department.
 
 The DM has also instructed officials to get all the papers video recorded before shifting to the temporary places. “It is important so that important documents are not misplaced during shifting. Once constructed, the new building will house all the district administration offices under one roof,” Ravi said, adding the DM office would operate from the second floor of Hindi Bhawan.
 
 Building construction department’s chief architect Anil Kumar said tender process for the new building is underway. “After the tender is floated, it will take around 20 months to construct the building. We have selected the model and few changes have been made by the consultant,” he said.
 
 In 2016, the state government decided to dismantle the old buildings and construct a new complex.
 
 
