AURANGABAD: A section of   employees from the   depot in   on Thursday staged a demonstration seeking permission to commit “mass suicide”.

 The agitation coincided with a proposed discussion in the state legislature on the salary revision of MSRTC employees. According the official agenda for the day, a group of MLAs and MLCs had listed the matter for discussion on Thursday. There was, however, no confirmation until late in the day if the matter did come up in the state legislature.
 
 Employees from the Kannad depot staged a protest under the outfit  , saying they were left with no option but to end their lives given the inordinate delay by the government.
 
 “We are running out of patience as no formal decision has been taken by the government regarding our salary revision. We are, thus, requesting the government to at least allow us to die peacefully by committing mass suicide. The government is responsible for this decision,” said  , a member of the group.
 
 About 100 MSRTC workers were part of the protest. Incidentally, established unions of MSRTC staffers distanced themselves from the incident. Sangharsha Group leaders, however, claimed members from different unions were part of the protest.
 
 Divisional MSRTC officials said the agitation did not affect functioning of the Kannad depot. “Their demand falls under the purview of the state government and therefore we cannot comment on it,” a senior divisional official said.
 
 In October last year, MSRTC conductors and drivers had observed a strike demanding a salary hike, among other benefits. More than one lakh workers had struck work demanding a pay structure in accordance with the Seventh Pay Commission. 
 
 The state transport corporation has already said it would have to increase fares of its buses by improbable 250% if it has to concede to the employees’ demand. The cash-strapped MSRTC had also cited the massive mismatch in its earning and expenditure. By the end of the financial year 2016-17, the state transport corporation had registered a cumulative loss to the tune of Rs 2,300 crore.
 
 
