Environment minister Ramdas Kadam was shocked after he found that a senior police officer in plainclothes from Beed was recording the proceedings of his meeting in which he was discussing the strategy for the 2019 Lok Sabha and state polls with   office-bearers. 

 The interaction was significant in view of Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray announcement that the party will contest polls alone. Kadam asked the cop to leave. He was not alone, two special branch officials were recording leader of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil’s news conference at his official residence. Vikhe-Patil approached Mumbai police chief Datta Padasalgikar and governor K Vidyasagar Rao to lodge his protest. Several ministers and opposition leaders fear that special branch sleuths are following them or tapping their phones.
 
 
 
 
 The fact that governor Vidyasagar Rao and chief minister   had to review the status of exams being conducted by Mumbai University reflects the state of affairs. A year ago, after there was a long delay in declaration of results, Rao had to step in to ensure that some results are declared on top priority. A notice was issued to then vice-chancellor (VC) Sanjay Deshmukh. Subsequently, Rao dismissed Deshmukh. He was the first VC in the Mumbai University’s history to be summarily sacked. 
 
 After Deshmukh’s dismissal, Rao changed Deshmukh’s team along with the pro-vice chancellor, and Kolhapur University VC was given charge of the varsity. However, drastic changes are not visible. It appears that the university administration has collapsed. Raj Bhavan has an education branch for supervision of universities across the state, and   has an independent branch to monitor higher and technical education. Many universities in the state are sailing in the same boat. “It is the governor’s responsibility to ensure that students do not suffer owing to maladministration,” says a former VC.
 
 
 
 
 The Bombay high court’s critical observations should be an eye-opener for the ACB probing the irrigation scam involving NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and Sunil Tatkare. Recently after a PIL came up for hearing before the HC, it was found that the ACB had not probed Ajit Pawar’s role in allotting a major contract to a senior NCP leader. 
 
 The HC then asked the ACB to submit the list of officers probing the scam. On December 12, 2014, Fadnavis granted ACB permission to conduct an open inquiry. Several criminal cases for rampant corruption and irregularities in irrigation projects in the Konkan and Vidarbha region were registered. But so far, the ACB has been unable to establish the involvement of the two NCP leaders. The ACB recorded the statements of Ajit Pawar and Tatkare over the manner in which contracts were awarded for irrigation projects in Konkan. Offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act were registered against many senior irrigation officials. The challenge before ACB is to establish the involvement of Pawar and Tatkare.
 
 
