CHENNAI: Major temples in the state will soon put an end to the practice of allowing devotees to light individual lamps. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department, instead, will place a giant ‘eternal lamp’ at each temple and allow devotees to pour oil into a tank to keep the lamp burning.

 The department has identified 47 major temples in terms of revenue and footfalls to implement the rule, introduced after a recent fire accident in   temple. The plan has been rolled out as a pilot project at   temple near Chennai. The department has also decided to install fire hydrants in all temples.
 
 
 “We have decided to have ‘vaada vilakku’ in 47 temples. All these temples have an annual income of more than ?10 lakh each, and they also have the maximum footfalls. The ‘vaada vilakku’ will be connected to a container and devotees will have to pour oil into the container. Through a nostril, oil will drip into the lamp, keeping it glowing all through,” a senior HR&CE official told TOI. As part of the safety measures, there is already a ban on devotees lighting camphor in temples.
 
 As of now, in most temples, devotees are allowed to light lamps, both inside and outside the temples. Especially on Fridays and Saturdays, devotees throng temples to light lamps. Devotees leave the lighted clay lamps on trays or in designated spots.
 
 
 ‘Fire dept training temple mgmt by conducting drills’
 
 Following Thiruverkadu temple, other major temples will follow the new system in a phased manner.   temple in   has placed order for a ‘vaada vilakku’ worth close to http://newngweblb.timesgroup.com/newsgate/images/SmallCode.png1 lakh, said an official.
 
 The department is also taking efforts to install fire hydrants and train employees to use them in temples.
 
 In the case of temples that are not financially sound to buy the hydrants, the department would pay for the equipment.
 
 “The Fire and Rescue department officials is training temple authorities by organizing fire drills. These drills have been carried out in most of the major temples. Electrical connections and LPG connections are also being checked in temples for safety norms compliance,” said the official.
 
 Meanwhile, the department has removed shops on temple premises in many places. “We have given alternative space for relocating shops in some temples. Wherever alternative space is not available, the shops have been shut down,” said the official.
 
