BENGALURU: Brendon McCullum, who is part of the   leadership group, defended the bowlers who again failed to defend a competitive total but conceded that the team’s fielding left a lot to be desired.

 
 
 After putting up 175 on a tricky surface, the home team allowed Kolkata Knight Riders to walk away with a six-wicket win on Sunday.
 
 “We had our chances. We dropped catches and weren’t at our best in the field. I thought we were good with the bat and the ball but in the field, we were a bit disappointing, and you can't be like that in this competition. If you look at the way we executed our plans where we wanted the ball to be bowled, we actually bowled there. We created chances but didn’t execute those chances. I don’t want to be too harsh on the bowlers. We should have backed them up with our fielding,” said the opening batsman. With seven matches to go, of which five are away contests, McCullum admitted the climb to the top four — which ensures a playoff berth — was an arduous task, but was quick to add that the team will thrive on selfbelief.
 
 “It’s always tough when you’re losing a few games and not getting the results you want. But you got to be strong. Some people may doubt you, but none of that matters. You got to believe you’ve the ability to be able to be standing at the end of the tournament with the trophy in your hand,” he said.
 
 “We’re going to be on the road soon. It’ll be nice to get a win on the road in a couple of days’ time. We’ve got to do it tough but that’s our own fault. We haven’t had the results at the start of the tournament. But I believe in all of the group of guys. It’ s just a matter of us transitioning that into points, staying tight as a unit and making sure we’re delivering on our potential as players as well.”
 
 On missing the services of their in-form batsman  , the former Kiwis captain pointed out: “We missed AB. He’s probably the best player in the world and probably one of the best we’ve seen in the history of the game.”
 
 
