BENGALURU: The   of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada are some of the most literate in the state, and yet its citizens have strong religious fervor. Historic temples, churches and mosques dot every nook and corner, setting a fine example of unity in diversity. Citizens have been at ease with this diversity, but that is until now.

 With polls looming, the synergy that has defined coastal   for decades is at risk of being torn apart by widening religious schisms. This is also true of Kodagu, especially after the Congress government decided to organise Tipu Jayanti.
 
 These divisions, allegedly accentuated by ‘radical infiltrators’ from Kerala and hardening Hindutva politics in the state, is threatening the peace and safety of the common man.
 
 “Coastal districts have seen several communal disturbances in the past three decades, but I’ve never seen people drifting apart in the name of religion as widely as in recent times,” said Suresh Bhat Bakrabail, a member of Komu Sauharda Vedike (Communal Harmony Forum), a social activism group. “This is largely because there are strong fanatic overtones among Hindus and Muslims. If stringent, democratic steps are not taken by the police and government, I fear the situation will only worsen.”
 
 Bakrabail’s worries stem from the fact that a conservative strain of fundamentalist groups — mainly the Popular Front of India (PFI) and the   — are taking root in the region to counter already established pro-Hindu fundamental groups like the Hindu Jagaran Vedike, Sri Ram Sene and Bajarang Dal. These Hindu groups have already turned the region into a Hindutva laboratory.
 
 Sociologists believe there is a distinct pattern of equivalent reaction in the way pro-Hindu and pro-Muslim groups have been behaving of late. “Whatever is done by the pro-Hindu groups is imitated by pro-Muslim groups — be it moral policing, protest marches, or retaliatory attacks,” said G Raghupathy, a retired professor of sociology in Karwar.
 
 Some secular activists say the divide is not only widening in the political arena, but also in educational institutions, social organizations and even the field of sport. There is a distinct fear of mingling with friends from other religions.
 
 “Both BJP and Congress are guilty of backing perpetrators of communal tension for political gains,” said Lokesh Moodbidri, a social activist. “That is the main reason why such incidents flare up closer to polls. Pro-Muslim groups are now more emboldened since the Congress is in power. They are taking a more provocative attitude.”
 
 Leaders of these hardcore   groups point fingers at each other. “Eversince Narendra Modi took over as PM, Hindu groups have become more provocative,” said PFI leader Shafi Bellare. “Pro-Hindu organizations have sought to gain political mileage from murders stemming from personal or business rivalry to ensure the benefits pass on to BJP.”
 
 But Hindu Jagarana Vedike leader, Satyajit Surathkal, said, “The Congress always resorts to appeasement politics and they take every killing as an opportunity to garner Muslim votes.”
 
 However, all leaders agree that the police alone can bring about a change. “The police must punish those responsible for crimes irrespective of which group the perpetrators belong to and ensure preventive measures,” chorused Bellare, Satyajit and Bakrabail.
 
 
