GURUGRAM: The  , which had been developed by the municipal corporation a year ago as part of its plan to restore water bodies, is once again under threat. But this time, it’s from lack of maintenance.

 The   pond was the first water body to have been picked up by the municipal corporation as part of an initiative called the “Rejuvenation of Urban Ponds of Gurugram”. The project was aimed at developing ponds as not merely water bodies but active urban spaces.
 
 A year on, the Basai pond is suffering from lack of maintenance. A visit by TOI to the spot revealed that the tracks around the pond were damaged and heaps of garbage lay nearby. Some concrete structures developed last year were dismantled.
 
 Sources said the MCG had appointed an agency named Future Institute to plan the development of water bodies in the city. But the project, other than Basai pond’s restoration, did not see the light of day because of lackadaisical attitude of officials, the sources added.
 
 MCG officials said while developing the ponds was possible because of help from corporate organisations and NGOs, their maintenance was easier said than done.
 
 “We had developed the pond with   funds but the responsibility of its maintenance lies with the engineering wing,” said  , senior town planner, MCG.
 
 Officials in the engineering department said it was only recently that they had been assigned the responsibility of maintaining the ponds in the city.
 
 “We are in the process of developing multiple water bodies again in the city and Basai is a part of the project. We have issued tenders for the project and are expecting bids soon,” said M R Sharma, superintending engineer, MCG.
 
 According to MCG officials, the tender for the development of the Sukhrali pond was allotted last week for Rs 70 lakh and the work is likely to kick off next month. Similarly, tenders for the Basai pond were also leant to have been floated.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the municipal corporation of Gurgaon was planning to renovate 16 water bodies as part of a larger water conservation programme. In the first phase, the corporation is scheduled to renovate four ponds in Gurgaon —Basai, Sukhrali, Fazilpur and Jahajgarh.
 
 
