RAJKOT: Girish Bhut, a small-time businessman, had no idea about the trauma he was going to be subjected to by befriending a woman on a social networking site. Bhut, 37, was honey-trapped to extract Rs 10 lakh by six persons including three women, who threatened to frame him in a rape case if he failed to pay the money. Bhut was forced to masturbate and his semen were collected in a condom before he was threatened to be framed for sexual assault.

 Bhut, who owns a factory and lives in  , had befriended a woman named Jahnvi Ahir on   around three months ago. On Wednesday, Jahnvi asked him to meet her casually near Nageshwar area on   road. When he reached there on his bike, five others — Geeta, Rasila, Ketan, Kuldeep and an unidentified one — joined them and forcibly took him on a bike to an isolated spot, probably an under-construction building on Ring Road II. Police said he was not able to describe the place exactly but only said there were walls around him. They also took away his bike
 
 
 
 
 Here he was forcefully undressed and Jahnvi too removed her clothes. The five other persons then forced him to pose in a compromising position with her and they started clicking his pictures. But the trauma did not end here. They even forced him to masturbate and collected the semen in a condom. They asked to him to pay up Rs 10 lakh immediately if he does not want to get framed in a rape case.
 
 Bhut pleaded with them them that he didn’t have such a big amount. After a brief negotiation, it was decided that he would give them Rs 5 lakh. The gang members then took him to a place on Bedi-Khorana road where he was beaten up and asked to pay Rs 2 lakh. Of this amount, they demanded Rs 1 lakh immediately and gave him a day’s time to pay the remaining amount. At that time, he had Rs 8,000 in the pocket which they took away along with his Aadhaar card. Thereafter, Kuldeep took him to Raiya crossroads on his bike and gave him Rs 100 to go home in a rickshaw to bring Rs 1 lakh immediately. Bhut then called up his brother Sailesh and asked him to lend Rs 1 lakh. Sailesh smelt something suspicious and informed police. 
 
 Police then laid a trap and asked Sailesh to call his brother and the accused to come near Raiya crossroads. Meanwhile, Geeta and Rasila reached there to collect the cash on Bhut’s bike. However, they were immediately nabbed by the Gandhigram police. 
 
 Harshad Mehta, assistant commissioner of police (west), told TOI: “Jahnvi had earlier also lured Bhut to meet her near Hanumanmadhi. While they were talking, she turned emotional and even took Rs 3,000 from him. This is a professional gang that honey-traps rich businessmen for extortion.” 
 
 In the past too, Jahnvi was booked in a similar case, said police.
 
 
