Pune: The cumulative third quarter performance of Pune-based listed manufacturing enterprises points to an albeit slightly improving economy, but the gains don’t seem to be equally shared.

 While auto and auto component industry seems to have reaped the maximum benefit, capital goods sector continues to show mixed results. In any case, the improvement in the Q3 has not been enough to undo the sub-par performance of the sector in the first six months of the fiscal.
 
 Auto industry’s growth is in line with the national trend — sales of all vehicles grew by about 14% to 2.27 crore in the period between April 2017 to December 2018. It is the capital goods sector, which is a bit of a concern, as the performance of this sector is an indication of broader infrastructure growth in the economy. 
 
 In all, out of 39 companies whose numbers have been taken into account for this analysis – the revenue of these companies has cumulatively grown by 11% in the three-month period ended December 2017, while net profit was up just 2.35%. About four listed enterprises have not been included, either because they did not report their Q3 numbers or they are holding enterprises of these manufacturing firms.
 
 In the three-month period ended December 2017, the 39 firms earned a revenue of Rs 20,463.86 crore amounting to a net profit of Rs 1,791.93 crore. In the nine-month period between April and December 2017, these firms earned a revenue of Rs 59,328.97 crore, resulting in net profit of Rs 5,425 crore.
 
 Listed manufacturing companies account for about a fifth of the districts GDP – which private estimates peg at about $60-70 billion.
 
 Net profit, however, remains a cause of concern for these companies as raw material and finance cost have broadly gone up. In the nine-month period ended December 2017, the cumulative net profit of these companies fell by about 5%. This can portend a lower fresh investment cycle and have negative effects on fresh hiring. 
 
 The economic growth rate recorded nationally showed a print of just over 6% in the first six months of the fiscal, with private sector manufacturing recording a growth of 11.4% in the quarter ended September 2018.
 
 Only about 17 out of the 39 firms in the district have shown a growth rate of over 11.4% in Q3. The rest have either shown a single digit growth or have de-grown.
 
 Broadly, the manufacturing industry’s troubles are far from over as companies still struggle with capacity underutilisation and little clarity into how the future looks like.
 
 “To estimate how the economy is going to perform over the next six months is an insight that is best guessed. No one really knows. Most companies are planning with just 1 year targets in mind,” a senior executive of a large manufacturing firm said.
 
 When contacted, BN Kalyani, chairman and managing director of Bharat Forge Limited, said: “As we look ahead into Q4 FY18, we expect to see continuation of strong underlying macros, supporting demand improvement across geographies and businesses. Demand in Q4 is expected to be stronger compared to Q3 driven by continued growth in domestic CV cycle.”
 
 Industrialists also said the profit growth has picked up after the initial hiccups post-GST implementation. “After a subdued Q2, our profit growth is back on track. The domestic business has posted a modest recovery post the GST implementation issues faced by the distribution channel in the Q2. The international business continues to do well spearheaded by aquaculture and sports segment,” said Vayu Garware, CMD, Garware-Wall Ropes.
 
 
