CHANDIGARH:   leader Bhupinder Singh   on Sunday dared Haryana CM   and his government to “auction even an inch of agriculture land” of the indebted farmers for recovery. The former CM said this while addressing a public rally to mark the second phase of his Jankranti Yatra from   of Panipat. 

 Hooda and his team also sent a message to their opponents, both within and outside the party. They claimed that the turn out of Janchetna Yatra was increasing every with each event as people wanted the Congress back in power. Thanking his supporters who showed up in the scorching heat, Hooda said that he would not give up his drive against the government until people vote out   from the state.
 
 This is the first public meeting of Hooda after being served the chargesheet by the CBI in the Manesar land scam case. Hooda, several builders, and serving and retired bureaucrats have been named in the case.
 
 “The government has made life unlivable for farmers, workers, traders and all other sections of the society. You name the community, they have tried to create the divide. It was only due to poor policies of this government that farmers have come under heavy debt. Instead of giving them the relief, the government has started sending them the notices. We dare   government to start process to auction even a single inch of land of farmers,’’ said Hooda.
 
 This government has forced the farmers to come out on the roads. Similarly, poor pleading and vindictive mind has resulted into loss of jobs to several thousand youths. Why don’t government provide details of 154 promises made ahead of assembly elections. Hooda also flayed the government over the issues of treatment to star sportspersons and deteriorating water supply in the state, especially the southern Haryana.
 
 Chaos ruled the roads leading to Bahadurgarh to Panipat and Ambala to Samalkha. There were traffic snarls on the national highway. Prominent among those who were struck in the traffic included education minister Ram Bilas Sharma. He too waited for the road to get cleared.
 
 
