NOIDA: A 20-year-old unemployed man allegedly hired contract   to get his   murdered in Noida 20 days ago because he had cut down his son’s   money and objected to his relationship with a girl.

 Mukeem, a resident of Dadri, was arrested on Saturday along with three of the killers he had hired — Ashu (21), Moin (20) and Waseem (20). Police said Mukeem’s father Abir alias Bhura Kabari was a scrap dealer and owned a shop in Noida’s Sector 78. Though his business was flourishing, Mukeem felt he was not being given enough pocket money by his father to pay for his extravagant ways.
 
 Ties between the father and son turned all the more sour when Abir objected to Mukeem’s relationship with a girl in Dadri and even slapped him once when the son refused to change his lifestyle.
 
 According to Preeti Bala Gupta, SP (crime) Gautam Budh Nagar, Abir was shutting his shop around 9.30pm on April 13 when two bike-borne men shot him from behind and sped away. Hit in the back, the 55-year-old scrap dealer collapsed on the ground. Fellow shopkeepers informed police and rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Abir’s brother-in-law Shafik registered a police complaint, naming rival scrap dealers Waseem Kabadi and Wakil Kabadi and an “unknown accomplice”. Police questioned the suspects but found little evidence of their involvement. The cops said Shafik’s alibi did not match accounts given by witnesses.
 
 The youngest of three siblings, Mukeem was hardly affected by his father’s   and continued with squandering whatever money he had. When police questioned the family, they learnt about Mukeem’s quarrel with his father over pocket money and his relationship with the Dadri girl. 
 
 “Mukeem was in love with a girl from Dadri and wanted to marry her. His father had objected to the relationship,” Gupta said, quoting family members.
 
 Police sources said Mukeem had admitted before the interrogators to have hired killers to get his father murdered. Hours of sustained questioning revealed that the 20-year-old had met one Moin in Greater Noida and told him about his testy ties with his father. It was Moin who took Mukeem to two contract killers — Ashu and Waseem — who agreed to kill Abir for Rs 10 lakh.
 
 Even after Abir was shot dead, Mukeem failed to give the entire amount to the killers as the cash — presumed to have been collected from the shop —was kept in a locker in a room where his mother had confined herself during the 40-day mourning period. It was later revealed that the hired killers had only been given Rs 700 before carrying out the murder.
 
 “I regret plotting my father’s murder,” said Mukeem.
 
 A .315 bore country-made gun and a live cartridge were found on the hired killers. “We have launched a search for a fifth accused, Rajesh Plumber, whose bike was used in the crime,” Gupta said.
 
 
