Eminent American bassist and composer,   once said, “Jazz is an evolutionary art form. It’s always changing. I think it has to change otherwise it dies.” The same can be said about the sound of Tinctures, a musical duo featuring Berlin-based guitarist   and   Mahajan, a pianist from Bengaluru. “The structures of our compositions change with every performance or jam. Probably because we stay in different cities and don’t get time to jam regularly. Our compositions are evolving and have not yet reached their ultimate forms… they may when we hit the studios and record an album,” says Aman, a graduate from Berklee School of Music, Boston.
Their sound, they say, “floats somewhere between jazz and Western classical”. Nishad, a student of Indian classical slide guitar exponent Pt  , explains, “The stuff we play is not niche as jazz. And we don’t have a percussionist, which makes it difficult to categorise our music as the rhythm section usually defines a band’s musical inclination. So, we are free to meander around different concepts, feels, or for that matter, influences.” With their brand of “contemporary classical”, they want to bust the ‘myth’ that the coming together of two instruments that dwell in melody can’t be a feasible formula to form a band. “Though it’s not our primary objective, but we want to debunk that perception. 
 
 Playing as a duo can be a very liberating experience. We are open for collaborations in the future, but first, we want to enjoy being a duo,” adds Nishad. The first time Aman and   joined hands was in 2014, when they formed a band called Albatross. But it didn’t last long. “Albatross didn’t work as we wanted it to. That time, I was in Kolkata and Aman was in Bengaluru. It was more of a collective of musicians,” says Nishad.
 It was in 2016 that they really joined hands in the true sense of the word. “Neither of us has written music with another person in the past. So when we decided to collaborate, we wrote a few compositions over a stretch of three weeks and now we have around six of them,” explains Aman adding, “Initially, we didn’t want to have a name as names tend to classify a bands’ music. We didn’t want that. But sometimes it’s necessary to draw an audience, right?” 
 The duo are on a three-day tour of Hyderabad as a part of the 10th anniversary celebrations of Hyderabad Western Music Foundation.They believe their true prowess lies in live performances and with the new material, they are hopeful of striking a chord with the audience. “This project — Heads And Tales has a narrative and our compositions have a visual appeal to them. When we perform, we talk a little about the music to familiarise the audience with the concepts and our vision,” says Nishad. 
 Heads and Tales is a 75-minute instrumental offering, which the duo says, “is about the interplay between the piano and the guitar”. “It’s all about interactions between the two instruments. We drew inspiration from a lot of different concepts and musical influences and tried to blend them together to create a breed of music which can be played with anyone and everyone. The idea is to go anywhere and play with everybody,” says Aman.
 The project, says Tinctures, comprises of a slew of musical genres — jazz, Indian classical, contemporary genres like rock and alternative, et al. Some even drew inspiration from historical art movements like 19th century French impressionism. Says Nishad, “For instance, our composition See You In Berlin blends Indian classical music with French impressionism. While the first half of the piece derives its essence from Indian classical, the second part is rhythmically dynamic.”
 
