BHOPAL: Taking potshots at the lunch politics of Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia at   fort, the home of Congress leader   Singh, BJP Rajya Sabha member Prabhat Jha said that absence of Digvijaya Singh during the lunch party in his own house clearly shows that Congress is still a divided house and the cold war between Scindia and Digvijaya is unlikely to end soon.

 
 Jha’s statement came after Scindia, the Congress head of campaign committee, reached Raghogarh fort in Guna district on the invitation of party MLA  , son of Digvijaya Singh, to break the ice between the two families.
 
 Scindia, during his twohour stay on Wednesday also visited the fort area and met members of royal family of Raghogarh before sharing a meal with them. He was accorded a warm welcome by the royal family.
 
 Jha, who is a staunch critic of Scindia, said that the lunch politics was aimed at displaying dominance between the Mahal (fort) and   (palace) ahead of assembly elections in the state. But, the Congress is far away from the poor and needy.
 
 "This was an invitation to Raj Mahal (palace) by the Mahal (fort). Scindia shares meals only with the rich and wealthy. He will be accorded a `three-gun salute’ as he was the   during erstwhile British era. The Congress leader would never share a meal with the poor", alleged Jha.
 
 The BJP leader also raised questions on the absence of senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh during the lunch party. He said there were differences between Digvijaya and Scindia since the time of late Madhav Rao Scindia, father of Jyotiraditya. which continues till today. Since Jyotiraditya has been appointed in-charge of the election campaign committee ahead of assembly polls, he is trying to save his position pretending to be cordial with his opponents.
 
 "It is very much clear that Congress is a divided house headed by seven satraps - Kamal Nath, Digvijaya, Scindia, Suresh Pachauri, Kantilal Bhuria, Rajmani Patel and Arun Yadav - and these satraps will never unite. The show of amity is a farce", Jha alleged.
 
