BENGALURU: The   (NAL)-developed   on Wednesday completed a   in its new avatar. The  , development of which was nearly scrapped after its first crash in March 2009, is a 14-seater. It was in the skies for 40 minutes.

 The Saras PT1N (14-seater) flight on Wednesday was commanded by Wing Commander UP Singh, Group Captain RV Panicker and Group Captain KP Bhat from the Indian Air Force’s Aircraft and Systems Testing Establishment (ASTE). 
 
 “The aircraft took off around 11am from HAL airport and flew at the maximum height of 8,500ft at a speed of 145 knots. The chase aircraft (Kiran) was piloted by group captain Badrish and telemetry was commanded by Group Captain Naraynen, Wing Commander Pandey and Wing Commander R Sridhar (retd),” an official statement issued here read. 
 
 All the system parameters were found to be normal, and the team claimed it was a textbook flight. NAL, a Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) lab, had a young team of 40 scientists and engineers working seriously on the project for the past nine months. 
 
 The primary objective is to evaluate the system performance in about 20 flights, and data collected from this will be used to freeze the design of a production version aircraft. The flight was monitored by a team of experts from CSIR-NAL, HAL and included Air Marshal Upkarjit Singh, director, IAF project management team, and Air Vice-Marshal Sandeep Singh, commandant, ASTE.
 
 “The production version aircraft will be of 19-seat capacity and will undergo both civil and military certification,” the statement added. 
 
 NAL director Jitendra Jadhav had told TOI earlier that the modified Saras will have a configurable configuration. “While the design is for a 14-seater plane, it can be configured to accommodate 19. The final product will be taken care of by IAF, but we will need this much money for the prototypes,” he had said, while claiming that manufacturing of two limited series prototypes alone will require Rs 400crore to Rs 500crore.
 
 The Saras programme had come crashing down after a 2009 accident. The original design included a maximum take-off weight of 6,100kg and a maximum payload of 1,232kg. The first prototype which completed its maiden flight on May 29, 2004, was overweight at 5,118kg, compared to the 4,125kg design specifications.
 
 
