NEW DELHI: Clad in trademark saffron robes of a monk,   has turned out to be ‘in- demand’ campaigner for BJP with his status as chief priest of the “Nath Panth” temple in Gorakhpur increasing his appeal in states where the ‘Shaivite’ sub sect has adherents. 

 Yogi’s stewardship of the shrine associated with the medieval saint Gorakhnath along with his profile as CM of UP saw him campaign in the recent Gujarat and   elections. He was also a prominent face in BJP’s campaign against “red terror” in Kerala. He now seems set to play a fairly big role in the ensuing state polls in the north east as well as in Karnataka thereafter. 
 
 On a two-day visit to pollbound Tripura, Aditya Nath is looking to tilt a significant number of Nath sect followers towards BJP and help its prospects against the incumbent   government, which is a formidable foe in its bastion and remains the front-runner in the election. Aditya Nath has also visited Karnataka, another poll-bound state, where he has wielded influence in “Maths” associated with the Nath tradition such as the Jogi Math in Mangaluru. 
 
 “Tripura has a population of Nath sect followers, who are mostly OBC,” Nikhil Devnath, the chief priest at Gorakshnath Temple in Agartala told TOI. Claiming to be apolitical, Devnath, however, expects quota for the OBC community, which they are not entitled for in the state. 
 
 “There is no quota for the OBC community in the state as the state government has 48% for the SC/ST. We expect that our priest will take the matter to the relevant people,” he added. During his Karnataka visit, Aditya Nath had stayed overnight at Sri Adichunchunagiri Mutt, headed by Vokkaliga seer Nirmalananda Nath Swami, which was seen as a strategic alliance. 
 
 BJP had posted photographs of Aditya Nath and Nirmalananda Nath with a message: “Yogi Aditya Nath on Saturday night stayed in Bengaluru, not at any five-star hotel but at the Adichunchunagiri Mutt, which belongs to the Nath sect.” The message was apparently to woo the electorate projecting Aditya Nath as an austere saint. 
 
 Aditya Nath has already been saffron star campaigner who is effective in polarising Hindu votes and can now add a governance label too with regard to law and order, health and power initiatives.
