BENGALURU: Childline, the  , has received a case of a 14-year-old boy who was allegedly beaten up by school authorities on March 22. The boy is accused of leaking question papers of 8th standard examination. On Thursday, an anonymous call was made, informing about the plight of a boy studying in a private school near   in north Bengaluru. 

 Based on the call, Childline activists met the family and a complaint was filed against the authorities of   by Child Rights Trust, an NGO working with the   for Protection of Child Rights ( ). The boy had injuries near his left eye.
 
 "School authorities said the boy had leaked Class 8 question papers. However, no child can be punished for any reason. The family is apprehensive to file a police complaint as the boy's mother works in the same school and she is insecure about her job," said a child rights activist who's been dealing with the case. 
 
 However, when contacted, principal Ayesha Shariff said: "The boy had leaked all exam papers and the bruises on his cheek were accidental. He was taken to a doctor for the same."
 
 "On March 19, all the school staff were busy with the school graduation ceremony for Class 10 students. That day, Class 8 students were given study holiday. But this boy and others got hold of the keys of a classroom on the school's second floor, where question papers were being readied. This was revealed only on March 21 when mathematics exam was on and a teacher came to know that the paper was leaked. We inquired and found out that this boy was behind it and he too admitted to the same," she said. 
 
 The principal added that she was holding a stick in hand while speaking with him and he tried to get hold of the stick and by accident he was hit on his left cheek. "The boy was taken to the doctor and was given painkiller. I spoke to the parents and also apologised to them. He didn't come for exams after this and we will allow him to write his exam next week," she told TOI.
 
 When contacted, Mariswamy Y, a member of KSCPCR, confirmed the compliant and said the commission would look into the matter. "Corporal punishment for any reason is violation of child rights and Juvenile Justice Act. School authorities will be summoned and the matter will be taken up. We have sought a report from the concerned block education officer," he said.
 
 
