NAGPUR: In May last year,   became the second medical college in  , after   (Mumbai), to offer laser eye surgery, also called   surgery, to promote spectacle-free vision. Eight months after the non-profit facility was opened to patients, GMCH has completed treating over 100 patients.

 “We select patients with static number above the age of 20 to 35 years. If a patient is below 20, there is a chance of progress in the eye number. After 40, most patients need near-sight glasses,” said head of ophthalmology department of GMCH Dr  , who has now been appointed as vice-dean of the college. He said the surgery is useful for any candidate who wants to join the army, driver, police or other services that need perfect vision without glasses. “Several females also opt for it due to social problems, or at the time of their marriage. We started the facility as this procedure had become very popular with youngsters,”   added.
 
 Patients having diabetes, pregnant women, lactating mothers, patients with dry eyes or thin cornea, patients undergoing hormonal treatments, and patients of rheumatic arthritis are not eligible for the surgery.
 
 “Some 90 per cent of the men opt for this surgery due to requirements at work. Of all the patients, nearly 65 per cent constitute women, half of whom do it for cosmetic purposes, and the other half for job requirements,” said Madan.
 
 At present, the treatment at GMCH costs Rs8,000 for standard procedure and Rs11,000 for custom procedure. “We opt for custom procedure when the patient has cylindrical number in the eye or if the pupil in his eye is either big or small,” Madan explains.
 
 Explaining the surgery, Madan said abnormal length of the eyeball causes requirement for a spectacle. Vision is corrected either by glasses, contact lens, with Lasik, and by having lenses put inside the eye. Giving cuts to eye, known as RK, is also a procedure, which has been banned. Intra-occular lenses, or lenses fitted inside one’s eye, are very expensive but can be used if the number is more than -12.
 
 To explain the Lasik laser procedure, Madan said, “We evaluate corneal surface (eye’s outermost layer) and thickness, and then alter the curvature of cornea by removing some microns of corneal tissue with laser. A flap is prepared of superficial cornea, and laser is applied to deeper layer of cornea to reshape the curvature of cornea. Thereby, the number is removed.”
 
 
