PUNE: In a first,   Corporation Limited (IOCL) is set to   a pilot project to provide   delivery of   for its bulk buyers in Pune. With a single mobile dispenser to start with, the ministry of petroleum and natural gas plans to gradually provide this service in other cities as well.

 The doorstep   service in Pune will start from April 1. Confirming the launch of the pilot project, a senior official from IOCL, Pune, said, “The doorstep delivery service will benefit all those customers of oil companies who have static fuel tanks and cannot come to the petrol pumps for refuelling. This is an initiative of the ministry and we are launching the project with one bowser in Pune to understand the technical issues that can be faced and rectify those before launching it in other cities. The holding capacity of the bowser is 6,000 litres. The bowser has a licenced design and has been approved by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), thus ensuring complete safety.”
 
 Speaking on the matter, spokesperson of All India Petrol Dealers’ Association (AIPDA), Ali Daruwalla, said, “We welcome the move by the ministry to start door step delivery of only diesel to its existing big customers using a PESO-approved bowser fitted with a dispensing pump. The oil company will provide doorstep delivery to its big customers like Bajaj, Indian Railway, Sandvik, Finolex, Kalyani and others that do not purchase at retail rates from petrol pumps. The first trial vehicle is under testing at Indian Oil terminal at Loni Kalbhor depot in Pune.”
 
 Daruwalla said that the association had initially opposed the idea of providing doorstep delivery to customers. 
 
 “The oil company has assured oil dealers’ association that it would not target existing retail customers who are at present purchasing from petrol pumps to meet day to day needs,” he said. 
 
 Earlier, AIPDA had opposed the move because the bowsers were planning to sell to small customers who were potential buyers from petrol pumps and would be stationed anywhere on the street like vegetable vendors. PESO too had not given clearance to bowsers that would sell diesel on the streets. 
 
 “The organisation has given in-principle approval for bulk sale of diesel in these new modified bowsers,” Daruwalla explained.
 
 He stated that the ministry has decided to launch the service to provide customer convenience through door-to-door delivery of petroleum products.
 
 
