BENGALURU: A 24-year old   national was killed and two of his fellow countrymen and friends were injured when the sedan they were travelling in rammed a compound wall before jumping a median in Geddalahalli on Hennur Main Road, northeast Bengaluru, in the early hours of Sunday.

 Banasawadi traffic police said Asami Baliweb, 24, a Geddalahalli resident, was driving the   Sail, while Peotrpee, 27, and Bruno, 32, were with him.
 
 Asami was allegedly driving rashly and lost control over the car, which hit a wall and later jumped the median. All the three men in the car sustained serious injuries and were rushed to a nearby hospital.
 
 Police said Asami succumbed to injuries at 6.20am at   in Banasawadi. His two injured friends are being treated in the same hospital.
 
 “Asami was a student BCA in a private college near Kothanur. The other two are also students but we are waiting to hear more details from them,” Banasawadi traffic police said.
 
 Beer bottles were found in the car, they added.
 
 Locals staged an impromptu protest in the morning, demanding police crackdown on rash driving by foreign students in the area.
 
 Two pedestrians die while crossing road
 
 Two pedestrians, including a 75-year-old woman, were killed in two separate accidents in the city since Saturday night.
 
 A 75-year-old woman was knocked down by a goods tempo while she was crossing the road near Palace Guttahalli bus stop, Ballari Road on Sunday morning.
 
 Sadashivanagar traffic police said Chinnakannu, a resident of Vellore in  , had come to the city to visit a relative in Palace Guttahalli. She was heading back to Vellore for Pongal and was walking towards the bus stand when she was knock down by a tempo at 6.10am. She was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she declared brought dead. The body has been shifted MS Ramaiah Medical College Hospital for postmortem.
 
 Sadashivanagar traffic police seized the vehicle and arrested the driver.
 
 In another incident, a 41-year-old security guard was killed after he was hit by a scooter while crossing Gangadhara Chetti Road in Ulsoor, east Bengaluru, on Saturday night.
 
 Ulsoor police said Poorna Bahaddur Chetri, a resident of Ulsoor and from Nepal, was returning home from work when he was run over by the scooter around 11pm. 
 
 The scooterist,  , 19, was allegedly drunk when he hit Chetri. Vijay, and Harikiran, 18, riding pillion, were thrown to the ground and sustained injuries. All the injured were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Chetri was declared brought dead. 
 
 Police have arrested Vijay. Chetri’s body was handed over to his relatives after postmortem.
 
 
