BAGAHA: Reaching out to the Tharu and Oraon tribals, the predominant populace in and around West Champaran’s Valmiki Tiger reserve, CM   on Tuesday hinted at revisiting the state’s reservation policy for scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs). “After the 2021 census, reservation for SCs and STs shall be made commensurate with their population,” Nitish said while addressing a large gathering at the 40th Tharu Mahotsav organised by the Bharatiya Tharu Kalyan Mahasangh at Binwalia village in the district.

 The CM’s announcement, coming a year ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, is in tune with a slew of measures for the welfare of Champaran’s tribals that his government has undertaken since coming to power in the state 13 years ago. Incidentally, Nitish was a minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government when the Tharus and Oraons of Bihar, residing mainly in  , were accorded ST status in 2004.
 
 After the bifurcation of the state that led to the tribal dominated south Bihar going to Jharkhand in 1998, the tribal population in truncated Bihar fell abysmally. This led to a sharp decline in the reservation for tribals to about 1% in Bihar. Nitish’s announcement to revisit Bihar’s reservation policy for SCs and STs, therefore, assumes importance.
 
 The Vajpayee government’s move is seen as the clincher that swayed the Tharus in the state to the NDA. Nitish has undertaken several measures to uplift the Tharus through the setting up of the composite  . The CM said a Rs 59 crore corpus has been earmarked for creation of a university for STs in the state. “Another Rs 17 crore has been sanctioned to build hostels in the schools developed in the region. From 2010-11 to 2017-18, Rs 97 crore has been released for the development of Tharuhat region. This fiscal, Rs 27.61 crore has been sanctioned for the purpose,” he said.
 
 The CM’s declaration on reservation, post the 2021 census, is also seen as a key initiative to not only retain the Tharu vote bank, but also to assuage the community’s anger that erupted after a police firing at Naurangia in June 2013 that left 6 Tharus dead and 15 injured. A judicial commission headed by retired Patna high court judge   had subsequently upheld the police action.
 
 Earlier, Shailendra Garwal, chairman of the West Champaran Zila Parishad and a prominent Tharu leader, urged the CM to carve out a separate Tharuhat (ST) assembly constituency covering areas from Valmikinagar to Mainatar in the district.
 
 
