AHMEDABAD:  , a third-generation Gujarati from the US knows that his family, which had emigrated from the   over generations, has roots in six villages of  , known as   But he doesn’t know much about the history of his ancestors.

 Patidars, the original global Gujaratis, migrated from central Gujarat to other parts of the state and India; thousands also travelled to the east coast of Africa seeking better fortunes. Over three centuries, they spread out in five continents in large numbers. Only South America did not seem to entice them.
 
 Many of the descendants of émigrés, such as Alpesh, come to India now and then hoping to retrace their roots.
 
 According to the figures gathered by Chha Gaam community members, families living outside India are almost double (9,778) of those living in the country (4,798). In a major exercise conducted over three years, the members of the Chha Gaam Patidar Mandal carried out a survey of 90,000-plus members of the community who have roots in the six villages (See box). Zydus Group chairman Pankaj Patel will launch the resulting book, ‘Vanshavali’, at Dharmaj on January 28.
 
 “My grandfather, Motibhai Patel, had carried out the exercise in 1924, mapping 23,000-plus community members,” said Bakulesh Patel, a member of the organizing committee, who has traced his family up to 27 generations. “It was the firstof-its-kind exercise. With the new family tree, we have documented 22 to 26 generations of all the families that originated from the region. The exercise was conducted partly due to the wish of many families to find more about their roots and to feel a connection with their ancestral villages.”
 
 Kaushik Patel, the secretary of the mandal, said that the six villages acquired prominence as they were linked by social bonds for matrimony and trade.
 
 The exercise may be one of the biggest drives by a single community to trace their family tree,” he said. “It will provide details such as migration and different branches of families. All the villages have been visited more than 30 times by the team to get the required details.”
 
 Some of the illustrious members of the community include Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, India’s first deputy Prime Minister; I G Patel, former RBI governor; Bhaikaka Patel, the founder of Vallabh Vidyanagar; Dr Dinesh Patel, a professor at Harvard Medical School; Kanti Patel, an MP of Zimbabwe; and V V Patel, a judge in Kenya.
 
 
