UNNAO: Father of the Unnao rape survivor named BJP   Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s brother as his attacker in a video and revealed that police were present at the time of the assault but remained mute spectators.

 The survivor, who has alleged that Sengar had raped her along with his associates in June last year, had tried to immolate herself in front of UP CM’s residence on Sunday. A day later, her father died of septicemia in judicial custody and the autopsy revealed 18 injuries on his body.
 
 Police sources said the video was recorded by a local journalist at the Ujjain district hospital on April 3, the day Devender (name changed to protect the rape survivor’s identity) was attacked in his house by Sengar’s brother Atul and his associates. Police brought Devender to the hospital and a day later, he was arrested and sent to jail for the brawl. Though Devender had also filed an FIR against Atul, the latter was arrested only on Tuesday.
 
 “Vidhayak ke bhai ne mara. Woh maarte rahe, police ne roka nahi unko (The MLA’s brother thrashed me. They kept on beating me up, but police did not stop them,” Devender said on tape. When asked to name the person who thrashed him, he said, “Kuldeep ka bhai Atul (Kuldip’s brother Atul).”
 
 When the local reporter asks him what triggered the fight, Devender says, “Meri ladki ko bhagaya tha inhone
 
 (They had abducted my daughter).”
 
 He said his attackers had come armed to his house. “Rifle thhi. Gunde thhe. Bandook thhi. Police khadi rahi. Kuch dikhai nahi diya (One of them was armed with a rifle. The goons had a gun also. Police stayed a spectator),” he is heard saying in the video.
 
 Throughout, Devender speaks with difficulty due to swollen lips and a visible lisp. Bruises are seen on his face.
 
 When asked about the video, ADGP (Lucknow range) Rajeev Krishna, who is heading the SIT constituted for the case, said: “We have acquired all videos, including this, and audios and have made them a part of the case.”
 
 In the video, a frail Devender is seen sporting a purple shirt with his vest visible.
 
