MUMBAI: The 23-year-old  , who was arrested for defrauding a property leasing firm of Rs 4 crore, committed the crime to repay debts of Rs 10 lakh. 

 The accused,   (23), had taken loans for placing bets on cricket matches while pursuing his chartered accountancy studies in Delhi. Gupta, a commerce graduate, was employed with Executive Centre India Pvt Ltd, which is in the business of providing furnished work space or office blocks to its clients on lease. 
 
 “The earning that company received as rent was deposited in the company’s bank account. The same account is used to make payments to those entities from whom the firm took the premises on rent before subletting it,” a police officer said. 
 
 Gupta allegedly opened a fake bank account in the name of a client. “He accessed the passwords of senior executives authorized to operate the company’s bank accounts and transferred the money to the bank account he opened in the name of the client. This money was then routed to accounts of his accomplices from where it was withdrawn. The accomplices were paid a commission,” an officer said. The cash was illegally transferred between January 1 to January 10. The firm unearthed discrepancies around mid-January and the case was registered on January 22. Gupta came to Mumbai after running away his home in Delhi in 2016 and did odd jobs before joining Executive Centre India. DCP Anil   constituted a team under assistant police commissioner Ravindra Dhoipode and Vakola police senior inspector K Avhad. 
 
 The team arrested Gupta and he has been remanded in police custody till June 8.
 
 
 
 The report titled ‘Accountant defrauds builder of Rs 4 crore by diverting buyers’ payments, held’ published in Friday’s edition was incorrect. It was erroneously mentioned that Dipunj Gupta was employed with Kalpataru Group and had transferred funds received from customers into his accounts. He was employed with Executive Centre India Pvt Ltd, which has no connections with Kalpataru Group. The error is regretted.
 
