LUDHIANA: At a time when horrific crimes in Kathua and   have led to massive outrage across the country, Ludhiana is yet to take measures to help its distressed women.

 Rape cases are spiralling up in the city, which has no counselling and rehabilitation centre for such women to help them get medical and psychological aid from experts. The ministry of women and child development had recommended one-stop crisis centres for women in each district of the country after Nirbhaya rape case shook the nation in 2012. 
 
 The health department had earlier set up a small room in civil hospital for the treatment of rape victims, but it closed down within no time. At present, neither the health department nor the district administration has an expert counsellor to deal with such cases. 
 
 The district administration and the district health department, meanwhile, said that such a counselling and rehabilitation centre would soon be constructed at civil hospital. “We have received approval and funds for it. The building will come up at civil hospital, near the emergency. But its construction will take at least six months,” said civil surgeon Dr  . 
 
 The officials said the centre would provide medical assistance, police help, free legal assistance through district legal service authority, psycho-social counselling and temporary shelter to children and women affected by any kind of violence. It will have round-the-clock CCTV surveillance and video-conferencing facility in special cases. 
 
 Admitting that there was no specialist counsellor to lessen the agony of rape victims, district programme officer   said, “Now that we have received approval for the one-stop centre, we will hire expert women staff, including a counsellor, a police officer and a lawyer. 
 
 The civil surgeon said the centre would become functional around October. “By next week, we will make temporary arrangements for rape victims at civil hospital. The centres are being opened in phased manner in districts. Besides Ludhiana, three more centres are coming up in Amritsar, Sangrur and Mohali,” he added. 
 
 Jalandhar was equipped with a counselling and rehabilitation centre in 2017.
 
 
 
