CHANDIGARH: The Class X students of   (CBSE) appeared for their English communicative exam on Monday. Though they termed the paper to be easy, they faced a lot of confusion in the comprehension section that had an erroneous question. 

 In the comprehension section, students were asked to find synonyms to the given words from the specific paragraph. The students made an attempt at trying to find words from the paragraph with the similar meaning of the given words, but could not find the desired synonyms from the specified paragraphs.
 
 Sidh Goyal, a Class X student from St John’s High School said, “The exam was easy and not lengthy. In Set 2, Section A, we had to find synonyms of the given set of words from the specified paragraph of the passage. I was confused and read the paragraph several times to find a similar word to ‘endurance’, but was unable to do so. Then I went to the next two words asked and to add to my confusion, I couldn’t find the appropriate answer from the specified paragraphs for any of them. I read all the paragraphs of the passage again and decided on choosing the most appropriate synonym from all paragraphs regardless of the specified paragraph number.”
 
 Shalini, another Class X student of   too said though the paper was easy, the erroneous question took time and created confusion. “There was confusion in the paragraph number mentioned with the word. The paragraph number which was given to find the word was a less than the para in which the word was actually found. So many students had confusion.”
 
 The teachers however said the CBSE will not be strict on this and marks will be given for the write answers. “There was confusion as the words were not in the paragraph which were mentioned in the question and were instead in some other paragraph. Students will get marks nonetheless for the attempt,” said  , principal-cum-English teacher at Hansraj Public School, Panchkula.
 
 Talking about the  , Anju Mehta, English teacher at Sacred Heart School said, “The overall paper was easy and students will score good marks. It was a little lengthy but students managed to finish it on time. The comprehension section got students stuck but hopefully they will get marks as it was the question which was wrong.”
 
 Class X students will next have their science exam and Class XII students will have their chemistry exam on March 16 and March 12 respectively. 
 
 
