Private schools are not just discouraging children from speaking in  , but are inculcating an inferiority complex among them about their mother tongue, according to poet and   chairman  , who also feels the   govt should be very tough on institutions like these.

 “The trend is simply unacceptable as inculcating inferiority complex in children in the schools amounts to abusing the mother tongue,” he said, adding that his concern for the Punjabi language is at the top of other concerns for Punjabi culture.
 “Private schools are inculcating inferiority complex in students and this should completely stop. Educationists have been saying that primary education should be in mother tongue, but the trend now is that children are being made to forget their mother tongue. Managements of schools which are indulging in this practice should be taken to task,” Patar said in a conversation with TOI about Punjabi culture, language, music and roadmap of the Punjab Arts Council.
 
 “National policy should be framed for education which would decide priorities about language. We want that our children should know very good English, but there is no need to make them forget Punjabi and they should know their mother tongue well,” argued  , who has written famous poem Mar Rahi   (My language is dying).
 
 Asked about his take on Punjabi culture and its nuances in the prevailing times, Patar said, “Culture is not just singing and dancing, but it encompasses conscience of its people. Culture is like a flowing river and it keeps on changing, but we have to see that to which direction it is going. After language, my other two main concerns and tasks are Punjabi music and among children and adolescents reading of Punjabi literature is reducing drastically. Here comes the responsibility of the artistes, writers and intellectuals to address these challenges,” he said.
 Speaking about the recent controversy around Punjabi songs — for vulgar content and for glorifying weapons and violence – he said what should have been at the margins has now become the mainstream and vice versa. “Punjabis were largely a singing community. They believe more in listening than reading. Punjabi music has evolved a lot and several streams have mixed into it which makes it more influential and likeable for different people. But looking at a few singing competitions one can be optimistic that good things are also happening and evolving as young generation tries its hands in Punjabi music,” he said.
 
 As some quarters have been advocating some type of censoring to check these trends, he argued that technology and jurisdiction issues would simply make any censorship redundant. “Moreover there are concerns about of freedom of expression,” he said. “We are contemplating constructing a parallel narrative by making a group or platform which should keep on commenting on the prevailing trends. We have to make a differentiation between popular and respectable. We are trying to start a cultural movement and we wish to engage with students in educational institutes. We are thinking on these lines and the Punjab Arts Council can also lead it,” he revealed.
 
 Patar also held that Intellectual discourse was not really emerging in Punjab. “Intellectuals are almost missing from the political and other discourses in Punjab. They should have been making interventions when changes are evolving fast,’ he said.
 
