NAGPUR: Eight masked dacoits brutally killed 80-year-old security guard of Gurudev Nagar-based Bharat Petroleum’s petrol pump Panchasheel Automobiles and fled with an iron vault having Rs 13.56 lakh cash in the early hours of Monday. Security guard Noor Khan Madar Khan was throttled to death when he survived repeated blows of axe on his back. The cash had accumulated at the pump as it could not be deposited in bank owing to holidays since Friday. 

 Nandanvan police have already taken into custody Santosh Chauhan, a former employees of the pump, for allegedly masterminding the dacoity by roping in several youngsters from Van Devi Nagar and Pili Nadi area. Two minors have also been rounded up. 
 
 Police have rounded up a present employee of the pump as well for his complicity in the dacoity. More than half the amount of the cash has been recovered but is yet to be declared formally, said a senior official. 
 
 The incident took place at 1.30 am. The footage of  , recovered from a camera installed on an office opposite the targeted petrol pump, showed the gang fleeing the spot at 2.08 am. Guard Noor Khan’s body was left at the spot until seen at 6.30 am when other pump employees came to attend their duty. They alerted the police as well as owner of the pump Mustafa Hasanjee.
 
 The dacoits, who also took away the recording unit of four CCTV cameras installed at the pump, however could not hide some strong clues that cops found later. Police also found blood stained axe, an iron rod and another sharp weapon at the place. 
 
 Chauhan’s bike with a temporary number plate was caught by CCTV installed at a transport office opposite to the pump. There was a strong suspicion of some insider being involved as the domesticated canine, sheltered at the petrol pump, had acted friendly with the masked goons as it usually would at strangers. 
 
 Police and owner Hasanjee had already wondered about the dacoits taking away the plywood almirah in which the iron vault was fitted. There were three similar almirahs that were left untouched raising suspicion of it being an inside job.
 
 Guard Khan is learnt to be working at the petrol pump for last 16 years. His family members claimed octogenarian was so dedicated he would not take leave even for a day. He was sleeping with the grill door open when two dacoits entered the premises that had closed for the day at 10.30 pm. They grabbed the keys of the glass door opened in the chamber of owner where the almirah was kept.
 
 While four entered the place, another four kept a watch outside. CCTV footage showed two of the dacoits making rounds of the place repeatedly before they finally ventured in. 
 
 An offence of dacoity with murder and also destruction of evidence has been registered at Nandanvan police station. 
 
 
