After mobile toilets, citizens in Pune will now be able to access one more option — e-toilets. A total of 14 such toilets are set to be constructed by the  , along 11major city roads.

 The standing committee of the   is set to hold talks next week to finalise the details. However, according to officials, nearly Rs 2 crore will be used for this project — each toilet will cost nearly Rs 10 lakh.
 
 “These e-toilets have several modern facilities. The funds for the new project will be made available via the Member of Parliament’s funds. We have asked for more details regarding this project,” Yogesh  , chairman of the committee, said while speaking to the press.
 
 But the proposal for e-toilets has been mired in controversy for a while. The problem revolves around the fact that there have been no call for tenders for the project .
 
 “Since, there’s only one company that’s currently making this type of sanitation units, we will have to consider it,” Mulik said.
 
 The civic body maintained that the e-toilet project is part of a bigger framework to provide adequate sanitation facilities in Pune.
 
 The PMC officials said steps were being taken to extend clean toilet facilities to tourists and commuters. Even buses, which have been declared as scrap, have been converted into mobile toilets for women. According to officials, these toilets have been placed at locations with high population densities.
 
 As a part of the central government’s Swachh Bharat Mission, the municipal corporations had claimed to have provided individual toilets to nearly 25,000 families across 15 wards of Pune.
 
 Also, a survey of 107 slums in the city, covering approximately 48,000 households, was carried out as part of the cleanliness plan. The survey, officials said, helped in the process of identifying families that required individual toilets at home. They were then located on the GIS map, allowing for proper use of resources and time.
 
 But the civic body has not limited itself to toilets.
 
 In another decision, the standing committee said it had given the green signal for the use of e-rickshaws for garbage collection.
 
 “The large garbage carrying vans or trucks are unable to access locations within the city’s narrow lanes. But these e-rickshaws can reach those spots. They will be ideal for smaller areas of the city. In fact, citizens from some of these areas have been demanding garbage pick-up facilities. This is why we have given a go-ahead to the use of e-rickshaws for garbage collection,” Mulik said.
 
 Meanwhile, civic activists in the city backed the building of public sanitation facilities, but urged the PMC to ensure precious public funds are used judiciously.
 
 “We don’t oppose the idea of building public toilets. But the civic body should understand priorities. Today, even basic public toilets are not available for citizens. Focus should be on building and maintaining the existing facilities,”  , of activist group  , said.
 
 Velankar said that Pune is currently facing an acute shortage of space along major roads.
 
 “Where are the officials planning to install these toilets? There’s a severe shortage of space along our roads. Officials from the PMC should not encroach footpaths. Also, there’s the matter of funding. Taxpayer money should not be used for the testing or trial runs of expensive facilities. The PMC should instead take the help of corporates via several initiatives such as corporate social responsibility,” Velankar said.
 
