Chandigarh: Haryana’s key political centre Hisar is all set to be connected to the state capital Chandigarh and national capital Delhi by air. Sources confirmed to TOI that the Hisar airport, which has come under the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik’ (UDAN) for revival of flights from unserved airports, has planned direct flights from Hisar to Chandigarh and Delhi.

 “We have included Chandigarh along with Delhi to connect from Hisar. Hopefully the new flights from Hisar would become operational from August this year,” Captain Bhupinder Singh, officer on special duty (OSD) to Haryana chief minister confirmed to TOI.
 
 Sources added that a private airline was already in touch with the state government to launch the flight from Hisar. The flight would take around 45 minutes to reach Chandigarh and around 30 minutes to the national capital Delhi from Hisar.
 
 At present, the state government is in process of completing necessary infrastructure including maintenance of runway, setup for security devices, arrangements for passengers and fire safety, boundary wall of airport and related facilities at the Hisar airport.
 
 The Hisar civil aerodrome, which was almost defunct except for VIP and few charter flights, was included under the regional connectivity scheme in April 2017 following the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Under the regional connectivity scheme, airlines are permitted to run short flights of less than one hour on these routes and fare has been capped to Rs 2,500 to promote more regional connectivity by air routes in the region.
 
 In its first list, released on March 30, 2017, by the Union ministry of civil aviation, only six airports from the region including Ludhiana, Pathankot, Adampur (Jalandhar), Bathinda in Punjab and Shimla and Bhuntar (Kullu) of Himachal Pradesh were included in the region connectivity scheme. Hisar airport was the only airport from Haryana, which was included in the list.
 
 Haryana has already proposed to setup an international aviation hub at the Hisar airport for which the process has been initiated. The existing civil aerodrome with 4000 feet runway at Hisar is spread in 196 acre area and state has identified additional 3200 acre government land, which would be used to setup international aviation hub.
 
 
