On a three-lane road, you get two lanes to drive on and on a 2-lane road, you get 1. A huge demand-supply mismatch means roadsides all over the city have fallen to illegal parking

 
 There are only four government-run parking facilities in a city where around one-third of the 20 lakh people who live here commute in personal vehicles. Add to this the huge volume of private cars and cabs that come to the city from Delhi and other areas every day, anywhere between 3 lakh and 4 lakh, according to ballpark estimates. 
 
 And with little to show for   except the metro, it’s no surprise that the city has the most cars per thousand people — 323 as compared to only 88/1,000 in Delhi — a study conducted by   (CSE) in 2015 showed. Also, according to the study, 41% of all commuting in the city is done in cars or bikes compared with 30% in Delhi.
 
 Data available with the district administration suggests 10,000 new vehicles hit Gurugram roads every 45 days. Around 74,000 vehicles were registered in 2016 and 84,000 new cars were added in 2017. Around 29,000 cars were registered till April-end this year. “Gurugram is growing rapidly, so is the number of people coming here for work. Most of these people have high disposable incomes with multiple cars per household, which is making the problem worse,” said  , sub-divisional magistrate.
 
 Besides, he added, a significant number of these people brought their cars from other cities or states (their previous place of work or hometown), adding to the city’s vehicular volume. This is a huge number that has not been factored into the data provided by the administration, Singhla added.
 
 The CSE study said the number of cars and SUVs entering the city was three times the vehicles registered in Gurugram. The closest estimate of how many cars from outside enter the city comes from Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the operator of the toll plaza at Kherki Daula as well as the erstwhile plaza at Sirhaul. It says around 3.2 lakh vehicles enter the city from the Delhi side and another 76,000-85,000 come from the Jaipur side daily.
 
 These apart, 25,872 commercial vehicles were registered in the city in 2016-17 while 16,266 more joined the fleet in 2017-18. And a total of 28,217 cabs were issued licences between April 2013 and April 2018.
 
 In the absence of enough parking facilities, these vehicles remain stationed on roads almost throughout the day, leading to snarls. As a result, cars parked on roadsides in residential societies or office areas; cabs eating into footpaths or clogging service lanes along NH-8; auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws choking entry and exit points at metro stations are a common sight here.
 
 Little or no action by government agencies in this regard has only made the situation worse. While the four existing government parking spaces are run by  , the two other agencies — HSIIDC and MCG — don’t have any such facility of their own.
 
 “The nature of industries has changed from manufacturing to services. Hence, the nature of the workforce has changed too — from workers coming on cycles to managers travelling in cars. This has caused a huge demand-supply gap in terms of parking in the industrial areas,” said Praveen Yadav, Gurugram Udyog Association.
 
 A multi-level parking project was proposed in Udyog Vihar. The foundation stone for the 4,000-capacity parking, spread over four acres in  , was laid in 2004. But earlier this year, the area’s development agency, HSIIDC, auctioned off the four acres as part of an 11-acre plot for Rs 1,496 crore.
 
 Other commercial areas and business districts in the city are also struggling to cope with the huge influx of vehicles daily. For example, the city’s oldest commercial hub,  , is a nightmare for motorists due to lack of parking space. Despite multiple plans, MCG has failed to develop a parking lot in the area. “As of now, MCG does not operate any parking lot in the city. However, a couple of projects have been proposed in the older city, which will be started soon,” said Sudhir Singh Chouhan, senior town planner, MCG.
 
 Huda administrator Chandrashekhar Khare said, “We have opened tenders for 39 more parking lots in the city which should address the problem to a great extent.” 
 
 However, government agencies alone cannot bridge this huge demand-supply gap, said Singhla. Most privately developed commercial and residential areas, according to him, lack space for parking. “This forces people to park on roads,” he said, citing the example of Good Earth City Mall where roadside parking often causes jams during evening hours. 
 
 Experts believe apart from creating more space, the authorities must work out a comprehensive policy to tackle the menace of illegal parking, maybe on the lines of Punjab. The Punjab government recently introduced a policy, asking its civic bodies to make bylaws for monitoring parking as well as fix punishment or fines for violation of rules.
 
