MUMBAI: A final policy for the city’s   will have to wait till the Development Plan ( ) 2034 is finalized, which is likely this month. 

 BMC garden department officials said that while an interim policy is in force for anyone wanting to adopt an open space for 11 months, the final policy will be ready only once the DP 2034 gets a green signal from the state government.
 
 The DP 2014-34 was passed in the civic house on August 1 last year and forwarded to the state government with amendments suggested by corporators. The state authorities have 18 months to clear it, but officials said a nod from the government is likely this month. The DP is a blueprint for the city’s land use over the next two decades. 
 
 A senior civic official said, “The DP 1991 allowed 15% construction on recreational grounds (RGs) in the city, which was done away with in the DP 2014-34 drafted by BMC. In order that the new open spaces policy is in tandem with the city’s DP, we are waiting for the state government to clear the DP, after which the final policy for open spaces can be brought out.” 
 
 NAGAR  , which has been working for protection and preservation of open spaces for many years, expressed disappointment and pointed out that the new open spaces policy should have been framed immediately after chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s directive in 2016. It has even written to him about it last week.
 
  had directed BMC to rework the policy after a ruckus over it among civic activists and opposition parties, who claimed there were loopholes in the policy passed. The CM had ordered taking back of 200 open spaces still in possession of private parties. Of these 200, 28 are yet to be taken back by BMC. BMC also brought in an interim policy which allowed private parties to adopt open spaces for 11 months. 
 
 NAGAR trustee   said, “It definitely does not take over two years to take back public open spaces which belong to BMC. The 11-month policy appears to have been brought only so that it legalises the stand of those who yet hanging on to public open spaces. By now the final open spaces policy should have been framed.”
 
 
