KOLKATA: Cardiac surgeon   and anaesthetist Suresh Rao, who flew to Kolkata from Chennai to conduct the first heart transplant in the east, were in Palestine town Ramallah three weeks ago. At the time, the town in West Bank, 10-km north of Jerusalem, appeared peaceful. The fragile peace though lasted less than a fortnight as fierce clashes broke out between Palestinian protesters and Israeli troops on the eve of Nakba Day (day of catastrophe), when back in 1948, more than 750,000 Palestinians were forcibly displaced from their homes to carve out Israel. The intensity of the protests was fuelled by the recent shift of the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.

 
  
 
 Balakrishnan and Rao escaped those violent days. But had the visit been delayed by a couple of weeks, the doctors would have been caught in the spiralling violence and Kolkata would have missed its date with its maiden transplant surgery. “There was no violence on the streets, but the presence of heavy security at the border post was reflective of the tension simmering under the surface,” recounted Rao.
 
 Balakrishnan, however, remembers the machine gun-toting gorgeous Israeli women. “One of them poked her gun at me, while her colleague examined my passport as our car stopped at a checkpoint. ‘What if her finger had an itch and the gun went off?’ I worried. Then I thought, if I had to die, it’s more fun being shot by a beautiful woman than dying of cancer on a hospital bed. The woman though smiled when she saw I was from India. She had spent a year in Goa and Himachal. ‘Best year of my life,’ she said,” recounted the surgeon.
 
 In Ramallah, the team of doctors who were there on the invitation of Palestine Children Relief Fund and the Palestine government, screened 50 kids suffering from cardiac problems and performed critical surgeries on a two-year-old, diagnosed with Tetralogy of Fallot, and a one-year-old, suffering from VSD with aortic regurgitation. While waiting outside the OT between the two surgeries, Balakrishnan had the strangest of encounters. A young pretty woman-—heavily made up, sporting jeans, T-shirt and a head scarf-—walked up to him and began to speak in Arabic. “I immediately turned to Google translator. The first words she said turned out to be, ‘I have five husbands’. I knew men were allowed four wives, but this was news to me. Was she joking? I thought maybe they were killed in the conflict, and hence, she didn’t seem sad. She then clicked a selfie with me, gave a high-five and disappeared. Later, I found out that she was part of the housekeeping staff, cleaning the OT after surgery . This was my welcome to Palestine, nothing remotely like what I had imagined,” the cardic surgeon smiled.
 
 During the five-day stay, the team trained local surgeons to take care of the patients and to perform similar surgeries. This was the first time such procedures had been carried out in Ramallah. “Prior to the travel to Ramallah, a Palestinian doctor had come and trained at Fortis Malar, Chennai. We went back the same day. But he had to fly to Jordan and then travel to Ramallah by road while we flew straight to Tel Aviv and cross the border,” said Rao.
 
 Many kids the team screened are completely cured now. “Since the ailments were detected early, it was possible for them to lead a normal life,” said the chief anaesthetist, acutely aware that for Palestinian children, life is anything but “normal”, what with frequent demonstrations and marches to the Israeli checkpoints and attacks against Israeli forces, countered by drone attacks.
 
