CHANDIGARH: The police have busted a gang of high-end bike thieves, with the arrest of three school dropouts from  .

 Police said the accused were stealing the motorcycles for joyrides and to impress friends and used to abandon them in parking lots.
 
 The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, 19, and Raj Kumar, 18, both residents of Nayagaon, and Sagar Masih, 18, of Zirakpur. Sukhwinder Singh worked as a cook at a hotel in Nayagaon, Raj Kumar was a conductor in private bus and   ran a stationary shop in Zirakpur.
 
 Addressing mediapersons at the crime branch office in Sector 11 on Saturday, Ravi Kumar Singh, SP (crime), said a police team caught the three accused riding a bike at a naka near the small roundabout in Sector 11 on the night of February 14. Police officials said they recovered two Enfield Bullet, two KTM Duke, one Pulsar and two Hero Splendor motorcycles and one jeep from them. Police said the accused disclosed that they had stolen one more Enfield Bullet and Splendor motorcycle from Sector 39 and Industrial Area, Phase I, this year. Both bikes are yet to be recovered, the SP said.
 
 Police said the KTM Duke bike is worth Rs 2 lakh each and an Enfield Bullet costs more than Rs 1 lakh.
 
 The SP said Sukhwinder Singh was the kingpin of the gang. The accused stole all the motorcycles during daytime after conducting a recce. They used a master key to carry out the thefts, police said. Police said the accused were active for last more than six months.
 
 Police claimed their arrest has solved 10 cases of motorcycle thefts.
 
 BOX
 
 Police recovered two Enfield Bullet, two KTM Duke, one Pulsar and two Hero Splendor motorcycles and one jeep.
 
 The accused disclosed they also stole an Enfield Bullet and Hero Splendor motorcycles but police were yet to recover them
 
 KTM Duke motorcycles are worth Rs 2 lakh each, an Enfield Bullet costs more than Rs 1 lakh each and Pulsar 200 around Rs 1 lakh
 
 Accused first conducted recce in the area and used a master key to steal the bikes from the Tricity
 
 
