NEW DELHI: A   police   with   from   turned to crime by forming a   to   from south and west Delhi. The gang stole more than  , including a BMW, Chevrolet Cruze, Toyota Fortuner and a Skoda Yeti. They would drive the vehicles to Imphal and sell them at half the price.

 The accused men — Mohd Fakruddin, Sorokhaibam Chorjit Singh, Asker Ahmad and Abdul Gaffar Khan — were caught with eight country-made pistols and 16 cartridges, deputy commissioner of police (south) Romil Baaniya said.
 
 “A team from anti-auto theft squad (AATS) laid a trap near Saket after getting a tip-off that one of the gang members would come there to deliver arms. He was caught with a stolen Honda City. He revealed the location of the other gang members after which they were nabbed,” Baaniya said.
 
 The mastermind, Fakruddin, said that he was unsatisfied with the emoluments while he was posted with India Reserve Battalion. He came to Delhi and contacted his brother-in-law Satyajit. They stole expensive motorcycles from south Delhi and sold them in Imphal with fake documents. He used his contacts with the Manipur transport department to forge papers and register the stolen vehicles in different districts of the state.
 
 He soon got acquainted with Khan who introduced him to Ahmad, an expert in disposing stolen vehicles.
 
 Ahmad told police that he had done MBA from  . After completing his education, he started running a US-based medical process call centre. During recession, he has no business and was forced to shut down the call centre. Later that year, he was caught by Delhi Police Special Cell for supplying Pseudoephedrine tablets from India to China.
 
 Khan is an expert in forging National Crime records Bureau reports and drafting duplicate registration certificates for transporting stolen vehicles from Delhi to Manipur. Chorjit Singh is a master in stealing bullet motorcycles. He is a proclaimed offender in many cases.
 
 It was found that the gang had stolen the vehicles from south and west Delhi in the past three months. An associate would take a few days to drive the vehicles to Manipur after which each of them would be sold for Rs 3-5 lakh.
 
 Apart from the BMW and Skoda, cops have recovered a few Hyundai SUVs and Toyota Fortuner from them. Police said they are trying to locate the owners of the vehicles.
 
 
 
