BENGALURU: There is nowhere to go but up. That will be the thought process at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium here when   play host to   on Saturday.

 
 
 
 The clash between the two bottom-rung teams - with RCB ahead on virtue of net run-rate - promises to be a no-holds-barred contest with both sides hoping to return to winning ways. Adding intrigue to the contest is the fact that while RCB’s only win came in their backyard, for DD, the lone victory came on the road.
 
 
 
 Coming off the back of rout at the hands of Mumbai Indians, RCB will be banking on skipper Virat Kohli to continue his form with the blade following his unbeaten 92. For the home side, inconsistency and leaking runs in the death overs have been their bane so far.
 
 Considering how the home side is yet to find the right combination in their playing XI, it wouldn’t be a surprise if the think tank led by Daniel Vettori chooses to ring in a few changes, especially in the case of Sarfaraz Khan, who has just 11 runs in three matches, and the fourth foreigner spot.
 
 Umesh Yadav, who has shone and waned rapidly, will be looking to bowl the death overs with the same discipline as his opening ones while the spin duo of Washington Sundar and Yuzvendra Chahal will look to live up to their billing.
 
 In the opposition camp, the Gautam Gambhir-led side too is sailing in a similar boat. They come into the contest following a morale-sapping 71-run loss to Kolkata Knight Riders. But much like RCB, they too will be looking to take positives from the loss, which saw batsman Glenn Maxwell find some semblance of form. Rishabh Pant and Jason Roy have been among runs and Mohammed Shami is back with the side, following some legal procedures in Kolkata, to add weight to the bowling attack which already boasts New Zealand pacer Trent Boult.
 
 Adding to that is the mini break which, according to batting coach Praveen Amre, has come at the right time.
 
 “We really utilised the four days we had to gel as a team,” Amre said. “There is hidden confidence (in the team). The chase against Mumbai (the lone DD win where they chased down 194) was a creditable performance from the entire unit,” he continued adding that it will take some special skills from the bowlers if they are to do well in the Bengaluru wicket.
 
 With heavy rains cancelling RCB’s practice on Friday and more expected on Saturday, even the elements are delicately poised for the tie.
 
