COIMBATORE: In a first, the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department and the revenue department on Sunday issued title deed for 114 acres of forest land worth Rs 1.14 crore to 124 tribes from seven tribal settlements in Boluvampatti forest range here under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act 2006.

 Municipal Administration minister SP   distributed the title deeds to the tribal people residing at Chadivayalpathi, Vellapathi, Pottapathi, Sarkar Porathy, Singapathi, Zahir Porathy and Thanikandi tribal settlements, at a function held at Iruttupallam on the outskirts of the city on Sunday. He also handed over patta for four acres of land worth Rs 4 lakh to 291 tribes residing inside the reserve forest. The minister later distributed schedule tribes community certificate to 396 people.
 
 The tribal people can get loans on the title deeds from banks and co-operative societies for agriculture. While they can use the land for agriculture, they cannot sell it.
 
 The government is also planning to provide title deeds to the tribes residing in the Coimbatore forest division soon. Members of the Irula community have been residing in more than 100 tribal settlements in the division for many generations. While they have been engaged in agriculture for many years inside the reserve forest, they lacked valid documents to prove ownership over the lands. Considering their plight, the Union government had introduced the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Dwellers (Recognition of Forests Rights) Act 2006 for the welfare of tribes. But, none of the schemes were implemented.
 
 According to police sources, Maoists were attempting to brainwash the inhabitants of tribal settlements in Palakkad district. The tribes, which were not getting any benefits from the government, were easily influenced by the Maoists. The state government decided to distribute welfare measures for the tribes to prevent Maoists infiltration to Coimbatore district, police sources said.
 
 
