THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The 'Punyam Poonkavanam' campaign, an initiative started by IG P   in 2011 to keep   temple and premises clean, was hailed by Prime Minister   in his 'Mann Ki Baat' session on Sunday. 

  "One police officer P Vijayan initiated a programme Punyam Poonkavanam and commenced a voluntary campaign of creating awareness on cleanliness. And, he began a tradition that the yatra of devotees will remain incomplete if they do not contribute by performing some physical labour or the other in the cleanliness programme. No one is big or small in this campaign," he said. 
 
 The project has attained a new dimension now with the Muslim community in   also joining hands in the mission. 
 
 “Whenever there is a reference to famous religious places, it is very natural to mention the Sabrimala temple in Kerala. Millions of devotees come to this world famous temple, seeking blessings of Lord Ayyappa. It is a challenge to keep the place clean, especially when pilgrims throng in huge numbers and when the temple is situated in the midst of hills and forests,” said Modi on Sunday.
 
 Modi said the campaign at the hill shrine is an example of how ‘this challenge could be converted into a sanskar, a habit and what a tremendous strength public participation has!’ “One police officer P Vijayan initiated a programme Punyam Poonkavanam and commenced a voluntary campaign of creating awareness on cleanliness. And, he began atradition that the yatra of devotees will remain incomplete if they do not contribute by performing some physical labour or the other as part of the the cleanliness programme. No one is big or small in this campaign. Every devotee considers doing physical labour in the cleanliness drive as part of worshipping the Lord. Every morning, there is a uniquely pleasant scene of cleanliness here when all devotees join in the drive. However big a celebrity be, or however rich one might be or however high an official be – each one contributes as an ordinary devotee in this Punyam Poonkavanam programme and becomes a part of this cleanliness drive,” Modi told the country, adding that the uniqueness of the Punyam Poonkavanam campaign was that each devotee contributes and participates in it.
 
 The initiative, launched in 2011as a remedy to prevent pollution and environmental hazards, has become an annual affair and is set to become a permanent mechanism to ensure cleanliness at the hill shrine.
 
