NAGPUR: To make primary schoolchildren aware about   and its prevention, the National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) has advised teachers to “sensitize pupils on their safety” from the forthcoming academic session. It asked them to create awareness on “good and bad touch”, which was already included as a learning outcome in environmental studies (EVS) subject at the primary stage. The Delhi-based body further suggested showing the children a film on child abuse titled ‘Komal’, which was available on its website.

 This information was released by public information officer Prof AK Rajput, while replying to an RTI query by Dr Indrajit Khandekar, professor and in-charge of Clinical Forensic Medicine Unit (CFMU) at Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS). He had sought information on steps taken by NCERT on creating awareness among primary and high school students regarding sexual abuse under the POCSO Act. 
 
 Dr Khandekar and his team of students had themselves published a report titled ‘Sexual abuse vis-à-vis primary school education in India’, and submitted it to NCERT for necessary action in December 2016.
 
 Rajput, working with NCERT’s Department of Elementary Education, replied that the issue related to child sexual abuse is addressed aptly in their textbooks and supplementary resource material at primary stage. “Child safety is an important aspect. Different components of their physical and emotional safety need to be addressed by the teachers through child centred learning experiences, that need to be provided keeping in view their context and developmental levels,” he mentioned in his reply of May 4.
 
 He added that the NCERT material for teachers and students in EVS at the primary level can be adapted, adopted and designed afresh to sensitize children about their safety.
 
 In his earlier letter to Dr Khandekar on April 3, Rajput had informed that ‘National Curriculum Framework (NCF)-2005’ developed by NCERT had stressed upon the freedom of child. “Whenever new curriculum, textbooks and handbooks for teachers and educators would be developed, the issue of child abuse would be kept in view and placed before the appropriate committees,” he said.
 
 In their 25-page study report, Dr Khandekar and students had pointed out that existing NCERT books didn’t have any information about the “good and bad touch”. They explained the need to include information about it in textbooks to make students and teachers aware about child sexual abuse.
 
 (With inputs from Subodh Wasnik)
 
 
