THANE: Sweets, outings and celebrations filled school campuses and homes in Thane on Monday as every Indian Certificate of Secondary Education ( ) school in the city saw cent per cent results.

 After limiting their television, entertainment time and studying extra hours, the 953 ICSE students in Thane as well as their parents finally breathed a sigh of Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations website flashed these youngster’s outstanding scores.
 
 Of these 953 close to as many as 484 or close to 51 per cent of the lot secured above 90 per cent marks.
 
 After a year of rigorous studies and minutes of hunching over the board website, these youngsters were flooded with calls from friends, relatives, acquaintances and even teachers to congratulate them on their achievement.
 
 “I have been receiving congratulatory calls from friends and relatives since the results were announced. I had not expected to get 98.2 per cent in this exam, and to top it all I scored an unbelievable 94 out of 100 in English. This score will help me get into a good commerce college, and eventually equip me to take my father’s business ahead,” said  , who jointly topped city based   with her two classmates Niranjana Roy and Tulip Bhatia.
 
 While the results have put a smile on the faces of city students, their principals, teachers and family members are ecstatic.
 
 “We have spent the last year organising one to one mentorship programmes for each of our students and our teachers have helped them all with their doubts right up till the day before the exams. Our students have truly done us proud as 44 of the 77 students secured a 90 per cent and above score while the other 33 scored above 80 per cent. As many as 18 students scored 100 on 100 in various subjects, said  , principal of  .
 
 “While the overall scores are a validation of the efforts the teachers and students put in throughout the year, the subject wise scores help us gauge where we have given our best, and where we can still do better,” added Revathi Srinivasan, principal of Sulochanadevi Singhania School.
 
 
