Chandigarh: Pakistan high commissioner to India Sohail Mahmood on Tuesday said that the challenge is to talk to each other rather than talk at each other for smooth flow of communications.

 Mahmood also urged to bring about paradigm shift in the framework of South Asian nations through researchers, academicians, and public intellectuals, saying they can be instrumental in the change of mindset to interact in a better way despite all the “constraints”. In a 70-minute meeting at Panjab University on Tuesday, Mahmood met vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover and other professors. Earlier in the day, he also met chief ministers of Punjab and Haryana.
 
 Without directly attacking the Narendra Modi government, sources said he repeatedly emphasized in the meeting that the situation has turned worse in the last four years since dialogue has been frozen between the two countries.
 
 Sources said during the meeting at the university, Professor Bhupinder Brar suggested an exchange programme between PU and University of Punjab at Lahore should be initiated so that professors from both the universities can teach at the universities. On this, Mahmood said they should do whatever is possible under the “given” circumstances. On the regular exchange between the faculties of two universities, he said dialogue is frozen from the last four years, further cautioning that things are not happening at the grand level.
 
 “The purpose is not only to reach academia but to reach the youth for improving the perceptions,” said Mahmood. He was positive that negative impacts between the two nations can be neutralized by exchanging ideas and addressing concerns.
 
 A perceptional change in the youth of the nation was regarded as the most important aspect in order to bring the universities closer. Various research journals, literature platforms and film festivals were discussed that can be chosen as a platform to the students of both universities. The session concluded with an understanding that the utopian ideas will take their own pace to formulate in an institutional framework. He urged all to take the doable steps pragmatically to reach that stage. Moreover, Prof Grover emphasized on establishment of soft link between the two namesake universities through video conferencing, discussions and lectures on Skype.
 
 Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh has called for strengthening of trade and people-to-people ties with Pakistan in order to defuse tensions and promote better relations between the two neighbours. At an informal luncheon meeting with Pakistan’s high commissioner to India, Sohail Mahmood, the chief minister expressed concern over the declining trade levels between the two countries due to escalation in tensions along the borders in recent months. Captain Amarinder Singh was in favour of reviving the Indo-Pak Punjab Games, which he had introduced during his previous tenure as Chief Minister, saying sporting events could play a pivotal role in boosting people-to-people relations on both sides of the Punjab border.
 
 Pakistan high commissioner to India, Sohail Mahmood who made a courtesy call on chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Tuesday said as there are lot of similarities between both the countries, there should be an exchange from both sides in field of sports and culture so as to further strengthen the bilateral relations. He invited Khattar to visit Pakistan and expressed hope that peace would prevail between the two countries.
 
 
