NOIDA: The committee that allots houses to employees of the district hospital and the child hospital in the city has issued notices to five   staying in the  .

 TOI reported on April 2 that at least seven bureaucrats and police officers, including an income tax commissioner posted in Faridabad, ADM (City) Agra, a circle officer in Mathura, GM (Projects)  , are staying in flats in the residential complex meant for the employees of the district and the child hospital.
 
 According to the notices, they have been asked to vacate the flats “as soon as possible” after due payment of electricity and licence fees, etc. Issued on Monday, the notices have also been marked to their parent departments such as the DGP office, principal secretary (Home), principal secretary (appointment) and the UP chief secretary’s office.
 
 However, Ruchi Singh, a gynecologist posted with  , has been spared because she is a doctor, officials said. GM (Projects) YEIDA Devendra Baliyan did not get a notice as he has been allotted the house “temporarily”.
 
 The house allotment committee headed by Jyotsna Madan also passed an order cancelling the allotment of two houses each to 59 occupants — mostly district hospital employees and those working at the chief medical officer’s (CMO) office — who are residing in tower 7 of the housing complex.
 
 The committee also ordered that 26 occupants of flats in tower 7 with grade pay less than Rs 5,400 shift to the flats allotted to them in tower number 5.
 
 “These occupants have been staying in the houses which should be allotted to doctors and other employees with the said pay scale or higher than that,” Dr A K Bhatt, director, super speciality paediatric hospital and post graduate teaching institute (SSPHPGTI) told TOI.
 
 Officials said that they will wait for a response from the occupants but if the flats are still not vacated, legal proceedings will be started against them.
 
 When contacted, CMS of district hospital Ajai Agrawal said, “The land where the complex for the employees of the two hospitals stands belongs to the health department and the allotment was done by Noida Authority. Although the allotment is wrong, we are not responsible to take any action,” he said. CMO Anurag Bhargava said, “Let us see how the employees respond.”
 
 All the five outsiders said they will vacate the flats. However, the flats have not been vacated yet.
 
 
