GURGAON: The   unit of  , which is due to become a standalone police station, has recorded 3,252 complaints this year, according to data it has released. In comparison, it had recorded 2,402 complaints in 2016, meaning there were around 25% more complaints this year. FIRs were not registered in all cases, though. The unit has also been providing technical support to several investigations, by procuring call and data records, etc.

 The maximum number of complaints recorded by the unit — which is tasked with the mammoth task of identifying and verifying hordes of complaints by residents of the district, before they can be registered as FIRs — were for fraud calls. As many as 1,916 cases of online banking frauds were recorded till December 27 this year. Most of these were of frauds pretending to be bankers calling up people on the phone and persuading them to part with their bank details. According to complainants, in several of these instances, the calls had been routed via unauthorized call centres set up by former employees of legitimate call centres.
 
 Police had busted one such racket offering non-existent jobs, functioning from   in Delhi. Another one was busted by Gurgaon police in May. In total, they recorded 48 cases of job frauds, where victims were promised jobs either over the phone or after registering on fake job-search websites, and asked to pay money that was siphoned off. There were 117 cases of e-mails of people being hacked. Social media related crime was recognised as a separate category. In particular, WhatsApp became a source of headaches for cops, with 26 complaints of defamatory messages received. There were 264 complaints relating to Facebook and  , and 12 to Twitter. Several complaints of morphed pictures, cyber -stalking and -bullying were also recorded.
 
 Sexual harassment and pornography featured in 73 complaints, while various forms of threat, including those issued over phones, WhatsApp, SMS, Facebook and Internet calls, clocked at 249. There were 20 cases of abusive, obscene calls and SMSes, and 12 of identity theft. Fraud and cheating clocked 240 hits.
 
 There were 11 cases of websites being hacked, including one involving ransomware that had hit organisations and hospitals around the world. They also registered a complaint involving the hacking of a website of a prominent Gurgaon-based clothing company. 
 
 The cyber police station is also carrying out large-scale probe into fraud, after a software glitch that lasted three months led to the balance of e-wallets of several customers not reflecting change, despite funds getting transferred into their bank accounts. While the glitch lasted, around 6,000 people had knowingly or unknowingly transferred money into their accounts, of which 100 people were responsible for siphoning of Rs 16-17 crore. The remaining amount was transferred by 5,900 accounts.
 
