BATHINDA: Farmers’ organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) completed weeklong protests against the Union government for its failure to allocate relief for suicide-hit farm families in the budget. The protesters burnt effigies in 44 villages and 10 districts since the protest started on February 5. 

 They will march towards the Punjab assembly on Mach 25, the first day of the budget session, to express their dissatisfaction over what they described as truncated debt waiver.
 
 Farm activists will also hold a “Lalkar rally” in   on March 8 to press their demand for complete debt waiver. Protesters have been demanding withdrawal of cases registered against hundreds of farmers for disrupting traffic on February 7. On February 16 and 17, the farmers body and left-leaning organisations will hold protests in   against cases registered under the Public Property Defacement Act. 
 
 Effigies were burnt in Bathinda, Mansa, Barnala, Moga, Faridkot, Fazilka, Muktsar, Sangrur, Patiala and Amritsar on Sunday, the last day of the week-long protests. 
 
 BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, “More than 3 lakh farmers and farm labourers have committed suicide across the country in the last few years but the   government has not allocated a penny for suicide-hit farm families in the budget. Also, the government has not announced waiver of farm loans even as loans worth thousands of crores taken by industrialists are being waived off. These loans are being turned into NPAs.” 
 
 Describing the budget as anti-farmer, he said it has nothing on decreasing interest rate on farm loans. “We have no faith in the government giving one and a half times profit over production cost as they will calculate the cost on the lower side,” he said.
 
 Besides taking out a protest march towards Punjab   on the first day of the budget session, he said, they would hold a massive rally in Barnala on March 8 for complete farm loan waiver as promised by   before assembly elections in 2017.
 
 
