HYDERABAD: It’s just the sort of win that instils belief, and if anything, the 31-run win over Mumbai Indians highlighted the can-do spirit of  .

 
 
 The Sunrisers seemed low on confidence after two close defeats, but come as it did in a low-scoring match, where they once again proved adept at applying the choke, the Hyderabad outfit has shown that it not only travels well – they have won two out of their three away games so far – but also that the importance of match-ups cannot be overstated.
 
 
 
 The Sunrisers have been upfront with the personnel at their disposal nicely softening the blows caused by the injury enforced absence of stalwarts like Shikhar Dhawan and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Sandeep Sharma stepped in beautifully in Bhuvneshwar’s absence, Chris Jordan assumed the mantle in Billy Stanlake’s absence – the Aussie has since returned home to tend to his injury – but just how well they’ve coped sans the thrust at the top that David Warner used to provide is a tale in itself.
 
 The resilience of the Sunrisers will be put to test once again by  , who have been on a roll. They have made light of a frenetic schedule and nearly played every other day home and away to log 10 points ever since they started their campaign with a six-wicket win over Delhi. They come to the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium on Thursday after a four-run win over the Daredevils and hope that their batting drawcard   wakes up fully fit.
 
 The Jamaican was quite the difference between the two teams – one of their three wins from 11 outings overall -- when they last met in Mohali, the first century of IPL-XI punishing for Sunrisers as it was for Rashid Khan. The Afghan legspinner, though, is the kind who relishes a challenge and he turned it on against Mumbai Indians, his two for 11 from four overs, including one maiden, the 61 dot balls bowled by Rashid is the most by any bowler in this edition, tightening the Sunrisers’ stranglehold on the match.
 
 With or without Gayle, Kings XI still have enough firepower in their batting with KL Rahul, Yuvraj Singh and Aaron Finch all coming up against their former team, along with Mayank Agarwal, who can’t seem to put a foot wrong this season, and Karun Nair.
 
 For their sake, the Sunrisers hope Bhuvneshwar, who with 6.86 has the best economy rate so far this season, will spearhead the attack with able support coming from the likes of Siddharth Kaul, Basil Thampi and Shakib Al Hasan.
 
 The Sunrisers will also hope that their batting will rally around skipper Kane Williamson, who’s not only held the innings together, but rallied his resources brilliantly.
 
