She’s a crowd favourite in macha shows who’s undergone a complete physical transformation of late to become quite a stunner indeed. But for  , it’s life that has been delivering one stunner after another in recent times. But the actress, who dropped in at the TOI office on Saturday, refuses to brood. The fact that she gave the nod to an interesting cameo in   Mukherjee’s Uma and is ready to explore the actress within herself a bit more is proof that she has taken the not-so-good part of life in her stride. Excerpts from an interview:

 
 
 
 Thank you! I feel on the top of the world. This transformation is for myself. You see, life teaches you a lot — about both good and not-so-good things. I prefer to not use the word, bad, as my upbringing has taught me that one should focus on the good things and try to ignore the not-so-good. That’s the way one can move forward without brooding. No point in living with a heavy heart, right? The experiences over the past few months have made me more focused and taught me to deal with things in a matured and dignified way.
 
 
 
 Well, that’s a strong statement to make. How can I forget about the good things life has given me? It’s a cycle of good and not-so-good situations. The latter helps you to appreciate the former and the former helps you to prepare for the latter. That’s what I have learnt the hard way. 
 
 
 
 There was no problem with Joy while I was shooting for Uma. In fact, I never had or have any problem with Joy. Taar jonney toh chilam eksanghe etodin (her voice chokes)! We had more similarities than differences. But again, life is weird and strange. It throws things at you for which you are not prepared. But my personal life has never affected my career and vice-versa. I know how to balance both.
 
 
 
 Trust me, I’m still trying to figure that out, but I’ve failed to get an answer. We are adults and thoroughly discussed how to mend our relationship, but things didn’t fall into place. Ke chai shomporko bhangtey? I realised that it was neither my fault, nor Joy’s. Time and situations were not with us. I believe in destiny, so maybe, it was destined to be this way. It was a difficult phase for me; still is, but as they say, time heals.
 
 
 
 At this point of time, I don’t know. 
 
 
 
 
 I have faith in god.
 
 
 
 
 It’s actually Ravi Kinnagi’s Awara that gave a new dimension to my career. Of course, Uma has given me the opportunity to prove my acting prowess. Enough of listening to comments like Sayantika has a fab body, looks beautiful and can dance well; now I want to hear Sayantika has acted well. First Srijitda told me that Menoka (my character) just has a guest appearance in the film and that she’s Uma’s mother. I was in two minds about saying yes, as the role came to me in the eleventh hour and I had no clue how to go about it. Srijitda asked me to have faith in him and just follow his vision about Menoka. He also tried to explain that to an artiste, the length of her role shouldn’t matter as a good performer can do wonders in a two-minute role too. But after hearing that the film also stars cast Jisshu (U Sengupta), Rudranil (Ghosh), Anjanda (Dutta) and Srabanti, I got pretty sure that I won’t be able to do justice with such good actors around.
 
 
 
 My hunger for performance-oriented roles... I now want to do films that make me question myself about whether I can do it or not? Then again, I thought that the audience has laughed, danced and cried with me till now, but never hated me. They will at first hate Menoka, but later realise she’s not bad; just a victim of circumstances. In that way, the reel Menoka and the real Sayantika have so much in common, don’t they?
 
 
 Uma aka   is the heroine. And yes, I want to promote this film, as I want the audience to watch Uma’s emotional journey, which is not morbid, but inspirational. And needless to say, Srijitda is a master storyteller. He’s all praise for whatever I’ve done in the film. I’d heard he’s a hard taskmaster, but with me, he was extremely nice and cooperative. In fact, after my first shot, he came up and hugged me, saying that I’ve done well and should do more performance-oriented roles.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Oh yes! She’s a darling and a god-gifted actor. She used to tell me, ‘Sayantika, let’s chat now; Srijit is busy with his directorial team.’ And the way she behaves goes a long way to show the way her parents have brought her up. She’s talented and a very obedient child. Jisshuda too is a nice human being and it’s always fun to have him around on the sets.
 
 
 Not at all! The story demands it. It’s about a young girl fighting a terminal disease, a father who’s struggling to make his daughter’s dreams come true and a director whose past haunts him. Menoka is integral to the story.
 
 
 
 I have a problem with the word, mindless. Maybe a heroine doesn’t get the scope to show her acting skills in commercial films, but that doesn’t make it mindless. Today I am what I am just because of such commercial films. When I go for macha shows, which are a good source of income for us actors, the love I get is because of these commercial films. So I’ll never say no to such films. But yes, now I want to do different kinds of films. I want to be a bit selfish now. I want go out of my comfort zone and explore myself as an actor.
 
 
 Dance is my passion and no one can take it away from me. I’ve done films where I have danced but also balanced that with performance-orientated roles. For instance, I played a courtesan Gulab Bai in Arindam Sil’s  , but the character took the story forward.
 
 
 
 Rather I’d say it’s below zero. It’s not that I don’t communicate with people, but I guess I need to brush it up and approach people for work.
 Tell me what went wrong between you and Nusrat-Mimi? The three of you used to profess your love for each other on social media. What happened all of a sudden?
 I respect the time we shared and as I said, maybe time and circumstances are not on my side. So, I’d rather keep quiet. Every relationship goes through ups and downs, so has ours. I am hopeful for a brighter future. I believe in building bridges than walls. 
 
 
 
 I would like to maintain a dignified silence.
 
 
 
 I believe in team work. They are not bouncers, makeup artistes, hair dressers or stylists to me; they are my teammates. I can’t function alone, so I always need them around. In my bad times, they were the ones who were by my side, so I owe them a lot.
 
 
 
 
 
