THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government’s plan to disburse   pension arrears by next Wednesday is unlikely to work out as three of the five remaining days (including Saturday) are holidays for banks. Earlier, the government decided to disburse the pension arrears by taking a loan from a consortium of  . Nearly 40,000 retired KSRTC staff are awaiting their pension for five months.

 The corporation requires nearly Rs 60 crore to pay monthly pension and the total pension arrears stand at Rs 224 crore. Minister for cooperation   said that an amount of Rs 284 crore (to clear pension dues) will be given in the first instalment and a total fund of Rs 584 crore will be paid to settle KSRTC’s pension problems.
 
 But, working president of transport democratic federation  , felt that the government had little time on its hands. “With three holidays from Saturday, it is unfair to give false hope to pensioners that their pensions will be paid on time. The MoU between the government and consortium of banks need to signed and account for each pensioner needs to be opened in respective cooperative banks. The process will take time. We were informed that pension till July will be paid. And government has not given any assurance for the rest of the months,” he said.
 
 Asking the government to take over the pension responsibility, he said: “During the tenure of the previous government it was declared that government will take over 50% share of the payment of pension. An amount of Rs 10 crore is earned through cess charge from tickets. And Rs 8 crore is reserved for payment of pension.”
 
 Meanwhile, KSRTC CMD A   said KSRTC has already given the required details of pensioners in each district to cooperative department and given the set of procedures, the pension will be credited within next 10 days.
 
 “Unit officers were directed to compile pension data that was given to cooperative department. Cooperative banks need to be briefed about the consortium agreement and procedures must be completed to sanction funds,” he said.
 
