KUALA LUMPUR: As Prime Minister   left to deliver the keynote address at a high-powered security summit in Singapore following his meeting with the senior-most political leader of Asean, Mahathir Mohamad in  , sources here hinted at a very significant outcome culminating in the Shangri-La Dialogue, the last leg of Modi’s south-east Asia tour.

 
 Modi is expected to make a big announcement on the Regional Security Architecture, officials and experts in the know of Asean matters said.
 
 Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore are all three key strategic partners for India and the signal that is coming through, specially after the high-yielding bilateral agreements with Indonesia, is that India is keen to engage with each of these countries, while keeping the   (Asean) centrality intact.
 
 The focus this time is clearly on defence, maritime security and strategic access to ports. Indonesia has already agreed to provide India access to the strategic island of Sabang, close to the Malacca Straits. And the safety and security of sea lanes in the Indo Pacific region has been a recurring theme in PM Modi’s parleys with all Asean counterparts.
 
 
  
 
 Earlier visits of the PM during Asean summits and presence at ministerial level discussions, put in place the mechanism for all 10 Asean leaders to gather at India’s Republic Day celebrations, thereby signaling India’s position as a stakeholder in the region. This visit takes it up a notch further.
 
 In his discussions with Malaysian PM Mahathir Mohamad, while giving a personal touch to his congratulatory call, Modi talked defence and trade, besides cyber security. He also focused on enhancing the India Malaysia historical and cultural ties which have recently drawn in the local Malay population too towards yoga and holistic and ancient health systems like ayurveda.
 
 “Glad to have met Tun Dr. Mahathir Mohamad. I thank him for the warm welcome. We had productive discussions on further cementing India-Malaysia ties,” Modi tweeted in Malay.
 
 MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar said Malaysia was a strategic partner and a priority country in India's Act East Policy.
 
 Talking to TOI, Indian High Commissioner Mridul Kumar said, “Defence is emerging as a key element in our partnership with Malaysia and for the past few months there has been a spurt in the defence-related engagement with Malaysia. After a long gap, India and Malaysia will be holding the Malaysia India Defence Cooperation Committee Meeting, in July this year.”
 
 PM Modi and Mahathir Mohamad spent over an hour discussing issues of mutual interest. 
 
 Later, PM also met Malaysia’s newly-elected Deputy Prime Minister Wan Azizah Wan Ismail and her spouse Anwar Ibrahim, who both then saw PM off at the airport.
 
 “Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia Dr. Wan Azizah called on PM @narendramodi during PM’s brief stopover in Kuala Lumpur. Good discussion took place to take our relationship to newer heights. Former DPM Anwar Ibrahim was also present,” Kumar tweeted.
 
 
