KOTTAYAM / THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following damning evidence of their role in helping the gang that kidnapped and killed Kevin Joseph, two policemen were taken into custody and questioned by the Special Investigation Team on Wednesday, even as finance minister T M Thomas Isaac called the ‘honour killing’ an indelible blot on the state’s reputation. 

 
 T M Biju, assistant sub inspector (ASI) of Gandhinagar police station, and Ajayakumar, a driver from the same station, who had earlier been suspended, were quizzed by SIT at Ettumanur police station. An audio clip of a conversation between the ASI and prime accused Shanu Chacko was aired by TV channels on Wednesday morning. IG Vijay Sakhare, who is leading the investigation, confirmed the veracity of the tape.
 
 Thomas Isaac, in a Facebook Post on Wednesday, said   will remain a blot on the state’s name. “The backing it (the murder) received from police points to a very dangerous situation. Nobody can trivialize this situation, and the message has already been conveyed to society through immediate action against responsible police officers. We all should drop our heads in shame before  ,” he said.
 
 In stark contrast to his senior cabinet colleague, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan continued to blame the media for casting the state in bad light. “I’m not averse to criticism, you should criticize mistakes. But a section of the media is not doing that. They want to prove that he (Kevin) died as Gandhinagar police was preoccupied with the security of the chief minister. That is wrong... That is unacceptable,” he said at a press conference on Wednesday.
 
 Shanu Chacko and his father Chacko, who had surrendered in Kannur on Tuesday, were remanded by an Ettumanur court in judicial custody. Another accused Tinto Jerome surrendered in Peerumedu court and was handed over to the police in Kottayam. The three who were remanded on Tuesday -- Niyaz, Riyaz and Ishan -- will be taken into police custody on Thursday. Six accused are still at large. 
 
 
