HYDERABAD: Summer is yet to officially set in, but people in the city are already feeling the heat with the day temperature touching 33 degree Celsius.

 Usually, the   begins from March 1 and lasts until the end of May. However, the minimum temperature during February is expected to hover around 17 degree Celsius and the maximum temperature will be 33 degree Celsius during the first week.
 
 
 “The temperature will rise by 2-3 degree Celsius in the next couple of days. Although we have not received any information from our headquarters about early summer this year, but there are very few chances of further drop in temperature,” said Naga Ratna, head of forecasting at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad.
 
  
 
 The IMD, Hyderabad officials attribute the rise in temperature to gradual change in wind pattern from north to east. Last year, January ended on a warm note with maximum temperature of 32.8 degree Celsius recorded on January 30. For the last two years, the summer has been setting in over Hyderabad by mid-February. Meteorologists from private weather forecasting agencies too predict February to be warmer this year due to change in wind patterns.
 
 “Due to western disturbance, the   of winds will be restricted leading to rise in temperature. Even the snowfall activity over the western Himalayas has been less this year, affecting the temperature in other parts of the country. A gradual rise in February first week can be expected,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet.
 
 Incidentally, official records say the highest summer temperature registered in the city in the past two decades was 44.5 degrees Celsius in 2009. This year, officials forecast that temperatures could touch 40 degree Celsius in March itself.
 
 To make thing worse, power cuts in various parts of the city have already left residents high and dry with the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited anticipating a rise of 15-20 % in load capacity this year during summer.
 
 While in some areas, including Khairatabad, planned power cuts were ordered to trim tree branches, but many localities experienced load shedding. “The summer has not set in yet. If there are power cuts now, imagine what’s going to happen in May,” said Balamurali Krishna, a school teacher.
 
