NEW DELHI: When shooter   blazed his way to gold in the 25m rapid fire pistol event in the   earlier this month, it was a reason to rejoice for every sports lover in India. More so, because the boy from Haryana was merely 15 years old and feted as the “youngest ever” Indian to win a gold medal in  .

 
 
 
 
 
 
 However, old newspaper reports say, that wrestler   was only 14 years old when he had struck gold in the light-flyweight category in the Edinburgh Commonwealth Games (July 16-25,1970).
 
 According to reports, Ved Prakash’s age was the subject of a major controversy at the Games because as per earlier accounts he was merely 12 and Commonwealth officials felt he was too young, “a junior” who should not be competing in a contact sport with “seniors”. Following his triumph Ved Prakash was described, among other things, as “wonder boy,” “babe”, “might (sic) midget”, mighty atom” and “wrestling jewel.”.
 
 
 
 
 
 On July 25, 1970, The Times of India ran the headline “Wonder Boy Ved Prakash brings first gold for India”. French news agency AFP’s report published in the newspaper went like this: The “babe” of the wrestling competition at the Commonwealth Games, Ved Prakash, India’s 14-year-old wonder boy bagged his country’s first gold medal beating Ken Shand of Canada in the light flyweight final here tonight.” Other foreign agencies, such as Reuters, also described Ved Prakash as “a 14-year-old” in their reports.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Celebrating the event, The Hindustan Times headlined its July 26 story “India attains sparkling gold standard”. The report also put his age at 14. The Sunday Statesman published the young Ved Prakash’s photo on Page 1, a rare honour for a sportsperson those days. In all, India took five wrestling gold medals at the meet: Sudesh Kumar, Uday Chand, Mukhtiar Singh and Harish Chand being the other winners.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The Wrestling Federation of India does not have Ved Prakash’s age records. “We have the passport records, including age and other details of wrestlers in recent years. But not of those who won medals in the 1970s,” Vinod Tomar, assistant secretary, Wrestling Federation of India, told TOI on the phone.
 
 Former TOI sports editor K Dutta, part of the sports desk then, says, “It was common talk in wrestling circles that Ved Prakash was 14 years old when he won the gold,” says Dutta, who was associated with the making of a documentary on Edinburgh wrestling medal winners.
 
 
 
  
 
 Manoj Joshi, one of India’s well known wrestling correspondents, endorses that remark. “That’s what everybody in the wrestling world used to say,” he said. Joshi, who has also acted in Dangal, recalled doing commentary on DD with Ved Prakash over a decade ago. “A disciple of Dronacharya Award winner  , he was always positive, light-hearted and fully focused on wrestling during the commentaries,” he said.
 
 Wrestler Sajjan Singh had won a silver for India in the same CWG. Hard of hearing now, he spoke on phone to TOI via his son. Singh said that Ved Prakash was around 13-14 years of age at the time.
 
 Efforts to reach Ved Prakash proved abortive. However, in an interview to HT in 2010, the veteran wrestler had recalled the age-related controversy. “We had to produce my passport, my FILA wrestling permit, and even a statement from my parents, before I was allowed to compete. They knew I was unbeatable in my category,” the wrestler had said.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 There was indeed a major controversy in the run-up to his gold-medal triumph. On July 15, 1970, TOI published news agency UPI’s story, “Ved Prakash will be a tourist.” The story went like this: “Ved Prakash may be a boy prodigy in Indian wrestling circles but to Commonwealth Games officials he is still a child. Ved is 12...William Carmichael, the President of the Games Organizing Committee, was horrified when he learned of the tender years of India’s light fly weight entry. “We cannot have juniors competing in body contact sports with seniors. This is a mere boy and he will be banned from competition,” Carmichael said.”
 
 The next day, July 16, TOI carried a three-deck headline: “Fourteen-year-old Ved Prakash allowed to compete.” The story said, “Mr Joe Coyne, assistant to the director of the wrestling organization, announced Prakash’s eligibility to compete after a meeting between technical officials and the Indian manager, Mahant Giri. Mr Coyne said that earlier statements that Prakash was too young to compete had arisen because of a misprint in communications from India, which said that he was only 12. “The fact is that he has a licence from the international wrestling body and that is what matters,” Mr Coyne said. The report also said Prakash would turn 15 on Dec 10 that year (1970).
 
 The closing ceremony report filed by Reuters and published in HT said, “Loudest cheers on the finals night was reserved for Ved Prakash, the 14-year-old Delhi schoolboy, who won the light-flyweight title after having been almost ruled out of the competition because of a row over his underage.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
