KOLKATA: Even as the civic personnel clean up the trail of destruction Tuesday’s thunderstorm left in its wake, the Met office is spying another squall on Saturday. In case it doesn’t materialize on Saturday, a thunderstorm could lash Kolkata a day later, it has been forecast. Alarmingly, the conditions likely to precipitate the squall are strikingly similar to those which had triggered the one earlier this week.

 Acyclonic circulation is likely to develop over Jharkhand and   on Saturday. Small ‘cells’ or clouds could then start forming and are likely to float from the north-west towards Kolkata. “The existing conditions are similar to those which prevailed at the start of the week and eventually led to Tuesday’s squall. We have adequate heating in Gangetic Bengal, enough moisture is flowing in from the   and a circulation is likely to form. While these indicate a strong thunderstorm, its intensity can’t be predicted. If the circulation doesn’t eventually form on Saturday, the storm could be delayed by a day,” said Regional Meteorological Centre ( ) director  . He, however, added that the chances of the storm striking on Saturday were “high”.
 
 To qualify as a squall, a thunderstorm must undergo a sudden increase of wind speed through at least three stages on the   scale and reach a peak speed of at least 45km/hr. It should last for at least one minute. So far this year, Kolkata has had three squalls, the last being on Tuesday. Weathermen explained that the last squall turned extremely ferocious for it was a ‘supercell thunderstorm’ that had a rotating updraft known as a mesocyclone. Mesocyclones are usually 2-10km wide and about 3km deep. Asupercell thunderstorm is an intense, relatively large thunderstorm that produces severe weather conditions and can last for several hours.
 
 Thunderstorms result from convection that forms cumulus clouds. The trigger for cumulus convection is moist air warmer than its environment. It rises because it is denser than the surrounding air. Once it cools to its saturation point, it forms a cumulus or convective cell.
 
