Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh Hindu Public Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments (Amendment) Bill, 2018, that was tabled in the House on Tuesday, was passed in the state assembly a day later. The proposed legislation aims at improving the administration of the Hindu public religious institutions and charitable e. A provision is being made to earmark receipt upto 15% for the construction, maintenance and upgradation of cow sheds. It will enable the shelter and proper care to the abandoned cattle wealth of the state. 

 The opposition Congress had some reservation on the bill with former chief minister Virbhadra Singh expressed concerns on the provision of taking 15% from temple fund. He said instead of temples, the government should provide funds for cow protection. While Nadaun Congress MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu had earlier suggested to increase the funds for the purpose to 25% instead of 15%.
 
 The chief minister, Jai Ram Thakur, said while Sukhu was suggesting to increase the temple fund for cows, Virbhadra Singh was opposing the same leading to confusion and the opposition members should atleast have a consensus on the issue.
 
 While initiating the debate on the bill, Kinnaur MLA and Congress chief whip Jagat Singh Negi said the BJP government was following the RSS agenda by promoting desi cows despite the fact that they were not being so profitable. Negi and Naina Devi Congress MLA Ram Lal Thakur had termed the bill as misleading.
 
 The Himachal Pradesh Hindu Public Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act, 1984, was enacted to provide for better administration of the Hindu public religious institutions and charitable endowments and for the protection of properties of such institutions. However, many authorities actively involved in the administration of such institutions were not included in the Act. 
 
 In the bill, the state government has submitted that therefore, such authorities are required to be included in the Act. Accordingly, the definitions and procedure to appoint such authorities are being substituted through the proposed legislation. Further, there have been instances of encroachment on the land and premises belonging to the temple trusts, hence, provisions are being made to empower the commissioner (temples) to authorise other officers to make an application for taking up proceedings under appropriate laws before the competent authority.
 
 This is likely to ensure speedy eviction of encroachments. The number of devotees to religious shrines are increasing day by day. To provide better administration, maximum number of trustees are being increased to 25 from the present number of 20, the Bill stated. 
 
 
