CHANDIGARH:The illegal mining case against Congress candidate for the Shahkot bypoll, Hardev Singh Laddi, turned into a major political slugfest on Monday with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh alleging a conspiracy. He alleged that AAP leader   and Shiromani Akali Dal’s (SAD)   were in touch with the police officer before he filed the case against Laddi. This led to SAD accusing the government of phone-tapping.

 Amarinder claimed that the Mehatpur SHO Parminder Singh Bajwa had been shunted out from Kapurthala for misconduct on recommendation by local MLA and former minister Rana Gurjit Singh.
 
 Talking to reporters after inducting local Akali leaders from Shahkot into the Congress, the CM said he had urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to examine the cop’s links with the two politicians.
 
 Phones being tapped, says Cheema
 
 SAD’s senior vice-president Daljeet Singh Cheema challenged Amarinder Singh to make public all the call details of the Shahkot SHO. “If at all they are resorting to phone-tapping of their political opponents, then CM should actually make public details of threatening calls being made by sand mining kingpins to the SHO,” Cheema said. “In fact, he was under so much pressure and psychological stress that he called me even today (Monday). It seems the state agencies did not brief the CM about this call made on Monday.” He added that his party had urged ECI to take suo motu notice of the phone tapping.
 
 
 
 
 Rejecting the charges, Cheema said the CM was browbeating officers and stopping them from discharging their duties impartially. “The SHO called me several times,” Cheema said. “He sounded extremely nervous and disturbed and said that he was being threatened by higher-ups for having registered a case of illegal mining,” he said. Khaira asked, “Is it an offence to talk to anyone on the phone and more so with a police officer? Why is the CM dithering from getting the contents of the FIR investigated? Why did the government post Bajwa as SHO at Shahkot?”
 
 Amarinder countered, “The case against Laddi was registered at 4.30 am. Before that the SHO spoke to Khaira twice and also to Cheema. ECI had only asked the SHO to investigate the allegations in one hour and not register an FIR. The SHO is showing his anger against his removal by Rana Gurjit because Laddi is known to him.” Amarinder however refused to disclose how he came to know about the calls. “I am not in a position to order an inquiry due to the code of conduct. We would request ECI to get the issue probed by Punjab Police or any other agency,” he said. The CM expressed surprise at the unprecedented haste with which the police registered the case, without even a preliminary inquiry.
 
 The CM said the police chief would also be asked to investigate how the SHO’s name was sent to ECI for posting in pollbound Shahpur when he was removed from Kapurthala earlier.
 
