HYDERABAD: Stating that the existing political system has miserably failed to leave up to the expectations of people,   (TRS) supremo and chief minister   on Saturday announced his foray into national politics. 

 "I am 64 and I can serve the nation for a few more years. I have a clear idea, agenda and route map for bringing the much-needed change in the existing political system," he said at a press conference here. Asked if he was aiming to form a third front against the BJP and the  ,   said what he was attempting was unification of the people and not parties.
 
 "I am ready to lead the fight against the current political system and would campaign across the country against the Congress and BJP if the need arises," the TRS chief said and added that he was in touch with various political parties and leaders such as CPM's   and would consult like-minded parties across the country, barring the Congress and BJP.
 
 KCR's announcement of entry into national politics and decision to oppose both the BJP and Congress makes it clear that he will have no truck with the saffron party, both at the Centre and the state. TRS sources said the CM is of the view that the BJP may not get a simple majority at the Centre on its own in the 2019 elections, thereby making the role of regional parties like the TRS, which he thinks can win a majority of the 17 Lok   seats in the state, crucial to government formation at the Centre.
 
 
 
 
 KCR, a few months ago, tried to mobilize support against the NDA government for want of powers in deciding reservations in their respective states. He wrote letters to Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and DMK chief Karunanidhi as the Centre put the bill enhancing quota to Muslims and STs in cold storage. Interestingly, KCR did not say anything about contesting for the LS.
 
 
 Responding to a query whether he would quit state politics, KCR said: “Hyderabad is one hour and forty-five minutes air travel from any part of the country.”
 
 
 “In the 70 years of Indian democracy, except for six to seven years, either Congress or BJP ruled the country. Only the names of schemes get changed, but the rest remains the same. There has been no qualitative change in the political system. People are vexed with it and looking for a tool and the alternative system will facilitate it,” KCR said.
 
 
 He said he was not afraid of criticising PM Narendra Modi. On whether he would face problems and see a dent in flow of funds from the Centre to the state, TRS chief said he was not worried about anybody as his party and family is very clean. Responding to BJP’s assertion that he would land in jail, KCR said: “We accept party funds like Congress or BJP during elections. My family is transparent and submits income tax returns. My family has no ambition to amass properties,” the CM said and added that there is no reason for either him or his family members to end up behind bars.
 
 
 On whether there is sufficient time to bring in change in the country’s politics, he said the Janata Party came into power after forming the front within 60 days and the TDP came into power in unified AP within nine months after formation of the party. KCR said AP should get special category status and TRS MPs would support AP. “People are confused on special status to AP. This should end. Centre should make it clear whether it would accord special status or not,” he said.
 
 
