 love their share of   and can’t seem to have enough of it! Be it cheese pinwheels, cheese bombs, cheese dosa, cheese pakora, cheese gol gappa, the city cafes have started selling interesting dishes for cheese lovers.
 
 
 Pooja Sharma, a student of mass communication, who lives at  , says, “I’m a big-time cheese lover. I add cheese to everything, even to my daal. Now, the city cafes make cheese-specific dishes, keeping in mind the choices of youngsters. Whatever the dish maybe, you will get a taste of cheese in it. My favourite is cheese pinwheels served at  , which are a must try.”
 
 Anand Kanti, owner of  , says, “While pasta is already prepared with rich cream, we still get requests from Doonites to add more cheese to it. And they want them to be served with cheese garlic bread.” What are the other cheese dishes they ask for? Says Anand, “They ask for tandoori cheese chicken and mushrooms in cheese.”
 
 Anand Kanti says, “I have seen that cafes that serve cheesy dishes are most popular among young Doonites these days.”
 
 
  Cheese-filled spring rolls
 
 
 Like other ingredients, excess cheese can ruin the essence of a dish. But, if added in appropriate amount, cheese not only enhances the flavour of food but also makes food more nutritious. Avantika Maya Chaudhary, owner of   café, says, “Cheese is saturated fat with vitamin D, and also a rich source of protein. My customers prefer cheese and that is why I have a separate rate card for cheese-made dishes.” 
 
 Ravi Verma, owner of Karma Café, says, “We never expected that we would add cheese to daal and sabzi but that’s what city youngsters are now demanding. Initially, we started serving grated cheese separately, but, it did not give the expected results. We got feedbacks, with people suggesting us to add cheese while preparing the dish itself.” Ravi says that the challenge remains to ensure that the basic flavour of food is not compromised while adding cheese. “We have a few regular customers who might order different dishes on different visits but one thing remains constant – they will ask for cheese in everything. So we have to keep experimenting and coming up with the perfect recipes so that we can meet customers’ demand without compromising with the essential taste of the dishes.” 
 
  
  Cheese-filled spring rolls
 
 
 But do health conscious Doonites go for cheesy dishes? Sunny Singh, owner of Qbana, says, “It’s a myth that cheese makes you fat. In fact, it is a great ingredient if served in appropriate amount. We serve cheese salads, vegetables in cheese, with no added salt or any other ingredient. Doonites love them.” He adds that depending on the quality of cheese, the cost of dishes varies.
 
  
  Chees loaded potato corquettes with cheddar cheese stick inside
 
 
 Kajal Arora, a final year student pursuing hotel management, says, “I have two whole cheese cubes every day. I can eat cheese all my life! My love for cheese eggs me to prepare any cheesy dishes. I often prepare dishes like cheese paratha, cheese roti, cheese rice, cheese roti rolls. My roommate and I love to gorge on these dishes whenever we feel hungry, especially when we are studying late into the night. It is the most easily available ingredient and can be stored for months. It’s not just tasty, it’s healthy too.”
 Shorya Singh, a student of fashion designing, says, “I love eating cheese pancakes, which are fried in butter and are filled with cheese. I like cooking too and my roommates love the cheesecakes that I make.”
 
  
  Chicken and cheese stuffed tomatoes
 
  
  Hasselback baked potatoes
 
 – Mansi Chaturvedi
 
 
