CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh police are yet to lodge an FIR against the group of seven men, led by head   Darshan Singh, who buried the body of a newborn girl by digging a pit in the Sukhna Lake jungles on Wednesday evening. They, following a confrontation, had also issued “threats” to two forest and wildlife department personnel.

 The body, coated with layers of salt for quick decomposition, was recovered from a freshly-dug 2.5-foot pit at   at 8.30pm on Wednesday by a team of Chandigarh police, assisted by staffers of the forest department and the TOI correspondent.
 
 The Sukhna police chowki staff took down the statements of both the sides late on Wednesday night. “We have inquired from GMH-16, where the child was born to Ajay, son of Darshan Singh, who is posted with the Chandigarh police’s PCR. The doctor who delivered the child said it was a stillborn as it had died in the womb. Along with Darshan Singh and Ajay, there were five relatives, identified as Yudhvir, Rahul, Ravinder, Vivek and Umed Singh, who buried the body. Regarding any foul play, we have checked the hospital records and spoken to the doctors. However, we will conduct an inquiry into the reasons that led to the child being buried in a forest area rather than the cremation ground, where a record is maintained of baby burials,” Chandigarh SSP Nilambari Jagadale told the TOI.
 
 The forest department issued a public statement on Thursday, saying Sukhna staffers,   and Sagar, were threatened by the group. The department has also written to the police, seeking action under laws that cover infringement of forest laws. “In my letter to the SSP on Thursday, I have asked the police to include relevant provisions of Section 26 of the Indian Forest Conservation, Act, 1927, in the FIR they lodge against the culprits,” conservator of forests TC Nautiyal told the TOI.
 
 While Section 26 (a) bans any fresh clearing prohibited by Section 5, Section 26 (b) prohibits trespass and Section 26 (h) prohibits clearing or breaking up of land for any purpose.
 
 However, the SSP told the TOI that she was yet to receive the letter from the forest department. “On receipt, I will have the matter inquired thoroughly. No one will be spared,” Jagadale said.
 
 The group had arrived at the spot on Wednesday evening in two SUVs, a Maruti Brezza (CH-01BN 4347) registered in Darshan Singh’s name and a Ford Endeavour (HR-70-C 8231) registered in the name of Jasbir Singh. The numbers were noted down by the forest department staffers.
 
 “When I asked the men what they were doing, they told me to get lost. Since there was a nullah between me and the group, I asked my colleague at the Nature Interpretation Centre, Ajay Dahiya, to confront them,” Sagar told the TOI. When Dahiya rushed to the spot, he was barred from going forward by an older man in the group.
 
 “They first asked me to take some money and go away. When I told them that I am going to inform my senior officers, they threatened to finish me. They even dropped names of some cops to intimidate me,” Dahiya told the TOI.
 
