JAIPUR: Even as the   ( ) chairperson   decided to skip the ongoing Jaipur Literature Festival ( ) in the wake of repeated threats made against him by Shree Rajput Karni Sena, he has sent out a strong message to the fringe group, preventing it from receiving the publicity it hoped for during a planned protest against his presence at the event.

 In a statement, Joshi, who was scheduled to speak at a session on 'Main aur Woh: Conversations with Myself' on Sunday evening, reiterated that the festival should focus on "creativity and not controversy".
 
 Joshi said that he would miss sharing great moments with literature and poetry lovers. "I am doing this so as to not compromise the dignity of the event or cause discomfort to organisers, fellow writers or attendees. And also so that lovers of literature can focus on creativity and not controversy,"   said in his statement.
 
 Shree Rajput Karni Sena president   had earlier warned that Joshi would not be allowed to enter the state as he had allowed the movie's release without taking into account the sentiments of the Rajput community. Speaking on the issue, Joshi said, "I did my job and sincerely took a sensitive and balanced call. As I have said earlier, certification was done following due processes, incorporating valid suggestions while staying mindful of the concerns of society as well as to the canvas of cinema," he said, adding that it was "sad that we are not relying on genuine peaceful dialogue".
 
 "It's important that we keep mutual trust and faith in each other and our institutions so that the issues don't reach this far," he said. The state government had assured Joshi of providing adequate security during the fest.
 
 Speaking on the Joshi's withdrawal from the event, JLF producer   said that violence had no place in the narrative of a new India and those who ignite the flame of hatred would be consumed by it. "We thank the   government and the police force for their support in ensuring the safety of all our speakers and visitors from across the world," he said.
 
 
