LUDHIANA: More than two months after the SHO of Raikot city police station was booked for extortion, the court of additional sessions judge Virinder Aggarwal has dismissed the bail application of one of the accused, Gurjinder Singh, in the case.

 On February 4, SHO of Sadar Raikot police station, inspector  , was booked for allegedly conniving with   — a nurse in Ludhiana, working in Bathinda — to extort Rs 28 lakh from   of Bagha Khurd in Jalalabad, by threatening to implicate him and his family members in a false case. 
 
 The accused persons were booked by the City Raikot police station under sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 420 (fraud), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, and Prevention of Corruption Act. Later, a probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was ordered into the matter.
 
 SIT member Balwinder Singh Bhiki confirmed that mastermind Gurjinder Singh got interim bail from the court, but his bail was cancelled by a Ludhiana court on Wednesday. As per the order, investigation officer of the case, said the accused was not cooperating with the investigating agency, and he was an integral part of the conspiracy. 
 
 He produced on record call details record showing he had contacted   120 times from 30 September 2017 to 5 January 2018, another accused Paramjit Singh Gaga a number of times from September 3, 2017, to February 3, 2018, and prime accused Inspector Kuldeep Singh, 56 times from October 19, 2017, to January 17, 2018.
 
 Additional public prosecutor for the state in the case, SS Haidar, said he pleaded before the court that Gurjinder Singh’s custodial interrogation was required for the purpose of investigating the case fully, and to bring the actual picture before the court. He added the court had granted interim bail to the accused, but after they produced the whole record of the case, the court cancelled his bail on Wednesday.
 
 The court observed that considering all the facts that the accused was alleged to have conspired with the SHO of a police station, and had cheated the complainant of a huge amount, the accused did not deserve to be released on pre-arrest bail, and his bail application was thus dismissed. A SIT member said the then SHO of Sadar Raikot police station, Kuldeep Singh, was on the run and absent from duty after he was sent to Police Lines Jagraon following the incident. 
 
 What’s the case? 
 
 In his police complaint, advocate Sukhdev Singh Mann had said that in the first week of January, his brother-in-law Balkar Singh had got a call from SHO Kuldeep Singh who told him that he, his sister, and niece (who lives in Australia), played fraud with girls by promising to send them abroad, and a Ludhiana woman had lodged a complaint against them for taking Rs 28 lakh from her to send her abroad.
 
 Later, the officer asked them to come to Sadar Raikot police station after which he, his brother-in-law and Paramjit Singh of Bagha Khurd went there, where the police officer showed them some recording. In response to the video, Sukhdev made it clear to the SHO that his brother-in-law Balkar did not have any knowledge about how to send people abroad. He said his brother-in-law had a physcial relationship with Inderjeet Kaur — who is a divorcee with one child.
 
 Sukhdev said impressed by Balkar’s lifestyle, Inderjeet had planned to play a fraud against him, and later lodged a complaint. Sukhdev said later he got a call from his sister who told him the SHO, along with another accused, got Rs 28 lakh from Balkar in the name of compromise. 
 
 
