COIMBATORE: In a move to encourage artists and create platform to showcase and sell their works, the state government has decided to conduct art exhibitions in the respective regions from this year. 

 Earlier, the arts and culture department held the  . However, from this year, for   comprising Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode and  , the exhibition would be held in Coimbatore, said an official communication. 
 
 B Hemanathan, assistant director of arts and culture, Coimbatore region said the state has taken this initiative to cheer up artists from all regions of the state. "A total of 10 exhibitions will be held in seven regions and three fine arts colleges in the state soon. A fund of Rs 10 lakh has been sanctioned for this," he said.   said though the exhibition will be held in Coimbatore, artists from Tirupur, Erode and Nilgiris (Coimbatore region) can apply to participate. 
 
 Artists willing to participate in the exhibition should send a picture of their artwork along with a short biographical write-up, Hemanathan explained. "A committee will select the artworks to be displayed at the exhibition," he said. "It will be a three-day event where artists also can sell their works," he said adding that the selected artworks will also receive cash prizes and certificates. 
 
 The last day to   is April 30, a communication from the district collectorate stated. The arts and culture department has been planning to conduct an arts festival in May. "The exhibition might be held along with the festival," Hemanathan said adding that the venue for the event is yet to be decided. While the exhibition is being held in Coimbatore this year, the department might hold it in another district in Coimbatore region in the future, he said.
 
 Painters and sculptors, who wish to participate in the exhibition, can send the pictures of their artworks along with their biographical details to: Regional assistant director, Arts and culture department (Government Music College Campus), Chettipalayam Pirivu Road, Malumichampatti, Coimbatore - 641050.
 
 
