PUNE: The Ashti tehsildar’s office in   has issued a letter seeking explanations from teachers seeking exemption from election duty and leaving the official   group created to issue necessary instructions.

 
  
  
 Tehsildar   “If somebody is on WhatsApp, has joined an official group and is deliberately leaving it, then it means that the person is avoiding the orders issued through it. Once a person is a member of the official WhatsApp group, leaving it isn’t allowed.”
 
 A teacher, who opted to be out of the booth level officers’ (BLO) duty, said they were were asked to do the BLOs’ work from November till December 15. “Such work needs a lot of moving around. Last time, we were given an electoral list containing about 300 names and asked to visit each voter’s house and geo-tag it,” he said. 
 
 “There were instances of an area not having the network. Under such circumstances, we had to walk long to a place with connectivity and the get-tagging done. Many schools in rural areas functioned with minimum teachers as most remained out with such work,” he said. 
 
 Another teacher said the earlier work kept them away from classes for 45 days. “Now the administration wants us to be out on another work that will need two weeks. A government resolution in May, 2013 had stated that the teachers can only be used for training and voting and counting days,” he said.
 
 Gore said the decision to issue show cause notices to the teachers was taken after consultation with the collectorate and other offices. “We took action under the People’s Representative Act of 1950. Even the RTE Act states that the teachers can be roped in for census, election and natural disaster duties. We have told the block education officers and head masters not to take action against teachers staying away from school because of election duty,” he said. 
 
 “We are in the process of including colour photographs and there are about 33,000 people with black and white photographs on their  ,” Gore said.
 
 The tehsildar said if the teachers do not agree to be a part of the poll duty, then  . “We had filed FIRs against 7 people last year for refusing to do election duty,” he added.
 
