Jaipur: A speeding pick-up vehicle knocks down two college girls riding on a scooter at the Ajmer Road 200ft bypass circle near Hirapura on Sunday afternoon. Surrounded by about two dozen people, a visibly shaken and scared driver refuses to come out of his van. Scenes like these are common on this stretch, which is in the list of   hotspots of the traffic police.

 “The girls on scooter had jumped the red light. Yet, I was the one who was hounded by the people. This is an everyday headache here,” said Jitendra, the driver of the pick-up vehicle. As the driver and the girls argued over who was at fault, the cops intervene and allow the driver to leave.
 
 “Thankfully, nobody was injured, or else, I would have been beaten,” the driver murmured and left.
 
 But not everyone is fortunate enough like the girls who escaped unscathed in the accident on Sunday. Anju Kumari (18) was crossing the road to go to her college when a speeding trailer truck mowed her down on October 7.
 
 On paper, the stretch may seem perfectly safe for any crossing that has Ajmer highway on one side, a bypass above it, and a city road underneath it. But on ground, the picture is horrifying. Among the list of issues that plague this place is the long BRTS corridor which is used by all vehicles, including bikes and cars. Taxis and cars are parked dangerously close to the road, and one part of the service lane is occupied by vendors who have set up their carts on the pavement itself.
 
 Buses are parked haphazardly with scant regard for other passing vehicle. Passengers risk their lives by rushing from one street to another even as a speeding vehicle zooms past them. “People make a run through heavy traffic to board buses. They often come dangerously close to the wheels of cars and buses,” said Bhupendra Ranawat, a shopkeeper. In fact, one part of this crossing resembles a village market with vendors selling fresh samosas, tea and other snacks.
 
 The problem is compounded by people who park their cars on the main road while they wait for their relatives to disembark from buses. “Despite our best efforts, people don’t follow the traffic norms,” said a traffic constable, who has himself seen death at close quarters.
 
 Accident challan
 
 Year
 
 Traffic challans
 
 2015
 
 4,38,748
 
 2016
 
 5,10,386
 
 2017
 
 6,38,407
 
 Year
 
 Revenue earned from challans (in rupees)
 
 2015
 
 5,96,69,550
 
 2016
 
 7,24,22,300
 
 2017
 
 10,20,71,700
 
 
