PATNA: Deputy CM   on Thursday appealed to farmers in the state to go for farm mechanisation as the shortage of agriculture labour is most likely to become far more acute in the next five to seven years.

 “If children of agriculture workers get educated, they will shift to the non-agriculture sector for dependence,” Modi said, adding the farmers should go for farm mechanisation in a big way. 
 
 Modi was speaking at a function to mark inauguration of the eighth edition of Bihar farm equipment exhibition at  . The four-day exhibition has 100 stalls where popular brands of farm equipment have been exhibited. The exhibition has been jointly organised by the Bihar chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and agriculture department, said CII (Bihar) chairperson  . This year’s novelty is the display of mobile cold storage van with capacity of 5 tonne to preserve perishable items like vegetables and fruits.
 
 The manufacturers of equipment have come from states like Delhi, Haryana, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Punjab, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal. Agriculture department principal secretary   said manufacturers from abroad, eager to showcase their equipment, would do it from next year, as they could not make it this year due to “shortage of time”.
 
 Modi said separate agriculture power feeder for farmers to run water pumps for irrigating agriculture land in the state would be ready for use by the end of December next year. He said the state government has made two “major interventions” in the agriculture sector – investment in the creation of “organic corridor” for organic farming of vegetables and fruits and policy decision to form three-tier cooperatives of vegetable growers.
 
 Agriculture minister Prem Kumar said the farmers anxious to purchase subsidised farm equipment would be able to apply for it all through the year from April this year. During 2017-18, as many as 2 lakh farmers had applied for it. Of them, 1.25 lakh farmers were issued permit to avail the subsidy on the purchase of farm equipment. “Till now, Rs 58 crore worth of subsidy has been disbursed against the target payment Rs 180 crore for the current financial year,” agriculture production commissioner Sunil Kumar Singh said.
 
 Singh appealed to farm equipment manufacturers to open their units in Bihar for which the required land will be given. Among those who also addressed the function were chief general manager of NABARD S K Majumdar and Farm Equipment Manufacturers’ Association president Baldeo Singh Amarjeet. 
 
 
