Mumbai: In a move that will benefit 25 crore account holders,   ( ) has reduced charges for non-maintenance of   ( ) in   by more than 70%. The revised charges will be effective from April 1, 2018.

 The charges for non-maintenance of AMB for customers in metro and urban centres have been reduced from a maximum of Rs 50 per month plus   (GST) to Rs 15 plus GST. For semi-urban and rural centres, the charges have been reduced from Rs 40 each month plus   to Rs 12 and Rs 10 plus GST, respectively. 
 
 “We have reduced these charges taking into account the feedbacks and sentiments of our customers. SBI also offers its customers options to shift from regular savings bank account to basic savings account on which no charges are levied,” the bank said.
 
 SBI had faced a lot of flak after it came to light that it earned more from minimum balance penalties than its profits (which were contained because of  ). Also, many students and underprivileged customers lost their balances because of wrongful classification of their accounts as regular savings accounts.
 
 SBI has 41 crore savings bank accounts, out of which 16 crore accounts are either under   or basic savings bank accounts. Both these do not have minimum balance requirements. 
 
 Additionally, pensioner/minor/social security benefit holder accounts were already exempted. Also, students up to the age of 21 years are exempted. So the latest revision in AMB will benefit 25 crore customers.
 
 Meanwhile, a news agency report said that SBI had closed more than 41 lakh savings accounts between April and January in the current fiscal year for not maintaining AMB. Last April, the nation’s largest lender had re-introduced the penal charges on non-maintenance of AMB after a gap of five years. Later in October, it had revised down the charges to some extent, followed by the latest decision to reduce these further on Tuesday.
 
 “Due to provisions of penalty on non-maintenance of minimum balance, the bank has closed 41 lakh savings bank accounts between April 1, 2017 and January 31, 2018,” the bank replied to an RTI query filed by Chandra Shekhar Gaud from Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
