India’s stock markets opened at a slightly negative note today, tracking   futures on the   (SGX Nifty). At 8.15 am, Nifty futures on the SGX were trading 20 points, lower at 10,222.50. 

 Below mentioned are the top stocks that are expected to be in the limelight in today's trading session: 
 
 
  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has interrogated some of the bank officials at ICICI in order to find if any swap was involved in the bank issuing of Rs 3,250 crore loan to the Videocon Group in 2012. Reportedly, in the past week alleged that the chairman of Videocon Group Venugopal Dhoot had invested Rs 64 crore in Nu Power Renewables, a firm owned by Deepak Kochhar, the husband of   CEO Chanda Kochhar, after Videocon secured a loan from a number of banks, including ICICI Bank. 
 
 
  Cyient has acquired 100 per cent stakes in Cyient Solutions & Systems. After, which the latter has become a wholly subsidiary of Cyient. 
 
 
  RBI has asked   board to reconsider the fourth three-year term it gave CEO Shikha Sharma last year. This could be a warning with regard to the scrutiny related to the appointment of bank CEOs by the regulator. In a letter addressed to the Axis Bank chairman Sanjiv Misra, the regulator gave its reasons asking for a review. These included the bank’s performance and its deteriorating asset quality. 
 
 
  Auto component maker Sandhar Technologies, which concluded its initial public offer (IPO), made its   debut today. The company's Rs 512-crore IPO was open from March 19-21 and was subscribed by 6.2 times. 
 Auto stocks: On Sunday, Tata Motors reported 35 per cent increase in the overall sales to 69,440 units in March as compared to 51,309 units in March 2017. 
 
 
  All three giants will be excluded from the benchmark Nifty50 with effect from April 2. They will be replaced by Grasim Industries, Bajaj Finserv and Titan. These replacements will also be applicable to the Nifty50 Equal Weight index, reported PTI. 
 
 
  The company in the previous week said its committee of directors had approved the company's plan to raise Rs 175 crore by issuing of non-convertible debentures (NCDs). 
 
 
 State-owned Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) has reduced its stake in telecom products manufacturer Sterlite Technologies by 2 per cent after selling 80.28 lakh shares in the open market. 
 
