CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum has directed Jindal Agencies Private Limited Industrial Area, Chandigarh and UM Lohia Two Wheelers Private Limited, New Delhi to pay Rs 35,000 for selling a   that had a leaking petrol tank. 

 They were told to refund Rs 1.78 lakh, the entire amount paid by the complainant to buy the bike, along with 7% interest from the date of its purchase July 25, 2017.
 
 Complainant  , a resident of Sector 45D, Chandigarh, had purchased a   from the agency for a total consideration of Rs 1.78 lakh. The motorcycle had a leaking   and after replacing the vehicle, a new motorcycle was handed over to the complainant on July 30, 2017.
 
 However, on August 4, 2017, Malhotra started facing the leakage issue and reported to the agency about the same. The motorcycle was sent to the firm again for repairs and is still lying with them. As the agency failed to redress his concerns, Malhotra files a complaint with the consumers' forum.
 
 In their joint written statement, the agencies pleaded that there was some problem in the rubber packing of the fuel tank of the vehicle, but for the satisfaction of the complainant, the complete fuel tank of the vehicle was changed with a new one. The vehicle was returned on July 30, 2017 after changing the fuel tank. There was no problem of leakage after that. Denying all the other allegations and stating that there is no deficiency in service on their part, the firms have asked for dismissal of the complaint.
 
 The forum, after hearing both the parties, said that the leakage in the fuel tank was not a small issue. It could have risked the complainant's life, had he not noticed the same in time. 
 
 "We feel that the fuel tank could have blasted at any time and the life of the complainant and his family members was at high risk, despite him having spent an amount of Rs1.78 lakh," the forum held.
 
 It was added "The complainant had spent such a huge amount to purchase the motorcycle in question by trusting in the brand to facilitate him. Instead he had to run the service centre several times and finally to the consumers' forum for justice in the absence of proper service provided by the agencies. Therefore, the act of the agencies in selling a sub-standard product to the complainant even after charging handsomely, had deprived him of using the motor cycle in question. This proves deficiency in service on their part, which certainly has caused immense mental and   to the complainant."
 
 They were then directed to pay up.
 
