Guntur: In the wake of gruesome rapes of minors being reported from across the country, police said that an analysis of the recent cases of rapes in the district has revealed that in most cases the accused is known to the survivors. It was noticed that offenders took advantage of their familiarity and proximity with the families of the victims to sexually assault them. 

 “The offenders in most cases of crime against women are known to the survivors and some even live close to them,” observed Guntur rural district superintendent of police (SP), Ch Venkata Appala Naidu.
 
 About 35 cases of   and sexual abuse have been reported in the rural district in the last four months. In almost all the cases, the accused are either the relatives or neighbours of the victims. 
 
 Police suspect that easily accessible pornographic material on internet is one of the reasons that is fuelling rapes. “It is influencing men adversely, making them insensitive to an extent that they do not seemed bothered about what they are doing and against whom,” said a concerned Appala Naidu. He cautioned parents of girl children, particularly daily wagers, not to leave their children alone or with neighbours.
 
 Although, it is an unfortunate development to live in a society where one needs to suspect neighbours and relatives, the growing incidents of sexual abuse goes to show that parents must be doubly cautious, observed a social activist T Seva Kumar.
 
 It is not out of common that rape and   are considered to go hand in hand. Several researches have to conducted to establish the link between the two and the results, too, have been diverse. While some say that pornography fuel aggressive behaviour in men, while other studies have revealed that pornography played a minor role in inciting men to commit crimes against women. The idea is, pornography does not have a homogeneous influence on all, which is why even if this is seen as one of the causes of rising rape cases the state and its administrative unit will have to look at all the other factors that are contributing to a spike in this crime.
 
 
