BENGALURU: A couple of years ago, in an interview with TOI, Madhya Pradesh pacer   had said: “If you ignore performers in   and only pick those who do well in the IPL, then players would stop playing in tournaments like the  . Domestic cricket, minus the IPL, will cease to exist.”

 
 
 
 
 
 Pandey, now 29, wasn’t talking only about himself. Instead, it was a reflection of the thoughts of scores of talented cricketers who ply their wares on the domestic circuit with a one-point agenda - an Indian cap. But often, their efforts are overshadowed by the case of a problem of plenty for a particular slot or the selectors’ thought process of watching a player for a couple of seasons.
 
 One case in point is Karnataka’s opening batsman  , who enjoyed a purple patch, having topped the batting charts across formats this season. Another player who is wondering what he did wrong is allrounder  . The 30-year-old, who currently plays for Kerala, is the highest wicket-taker in Ranji Trophy this year. Yet he finds himself out in the cold after being ignored for the Rest of India squad for the Irani Cup next month.
 
  
  
 After a shaky start this Ranji Trophy season, 27-year-old Agarwal did justice to his talent by raking up runs by the hundreds. In four months, the prolific batsman hit over 2,000 runs (2,141 in the season) - a record. That run glut includes eight centuries, nine half centuries and the unbeaten triple hundred in Ranji Trophy. Yet, those awe-inspiring numbers were not good enough to secure Agarwal a spot in the second-string 15-member Indian team - to be led by Rohit Sharma - for the  , a T20 tri-series in Sri Lanka.
 
 
 
 
 The batsman has the right to feel short-changed especially since some of the players picked for the event haven’t exactly set the pitch on fire this season.
 
 Some could argue that Agarwal lost out on a place in the team because of the lack of opportunities as opener. But given the fact that Shikhar Dhawan played across formats, it would have been fair to rest him, like the other six Team India regulars - Virat Kohli, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Kuldeep Yadav, MS Dhoni, Jasprit Bumrah and Hardik Pandya.
 
 If one argues that three openers are one too many, then why have two wicketkeepers - Dinesh Karthik and Rishabh Pant - for a series in which India will play a maximum of four matches? The tri-series offered the best opportunity to test the country’s bench strength and there were none who deserved it more than Mayank, who scored 258 runs in nine Mushtaq Ali T20 outings including three half-centuries.
 
 Compare this with Deepak Hooda’s 266 and 352 runs in the Mushtaq Ali and Vijay Hazare competitions and Vijay Shankar’s 152 and 200. Clearly, domestic exploits don’t impress selectors much.
 
 Former Karnataka coach J Arun Kumar, under whom Agarwal made his debut, is shocked that the selectors didn’t give the youngster a look in. “It is very unfortunate that Mayank does not find a place in the team. It is very important to pick players based on current form and use them when they are in good touch. If we adopt a wait-and-watch policy and give them chances later, the chances of self-doubt creeping in are high. A classic example of this is Shreyas Iyer. He doesn’t look as lethal as he was a couple of seasons ago.”
 
 Mumbai’s Iyer, in his debut season in 2014-15, raked up 809 runs in Ranji Trophy and was the highest run-getter the following season (1,321 runs), yet he waited till November last year to earn his India cap. In the international arena, the 23-year-old has often looked lost in the middle, but he showcased his talent with two half centuries in the ODIs against Sri Lanka last year. 
 
 “The waiting game, the pressure to perform and the fear of failure don’t allow Shreyas to play his natural game often,” said a source close to the youngster who has played six ODIs and an equal number of T20s for the country.
 
 However, for Agarwal the show goes on. Two days after the Indian team was announced, he scored a match-winning 90 against Saurashtra to help Karnataka to their third Vijay Hazare title. “I believe in focusing on things that are in my hands,” Mayank said, falling back on the balm of philosophy.
 
 
 
 Saxena, a proven performer who has bagged the   best allrounder trophy twice in recent years (2015-16, 2016-17), is currently playing for Sheikh Jamal in the Dhaka Premier League. He has done everything he can to get noticed by the selectors for the past six years. He switched from Madhya Pradesh to Kerala, worked on his batting, fielding and fitness. The results have shown, but selectors have remained oblivious to it.
 
 The highest wicket-taker - Saxena claimed 44 wickets (3 five-fors and two 10-wicket hauls in a match) and chipped in with 522 runs — in the Ranji Trophy this season, Saxena is bitterly disappointed at not making the ROI squad.
 
 “I don’t know what else I can do,” he said from Dhaka. “I will take it as a challenge and keep knocking on the selectors’ doors. I can’t even begin to explain how I feel. I feel demoralised. I was confident of making the team for the Irani Cup and was preparing for it. The best allrounder trophies clearly haven’t counted for much.”
 
 The inclusion of Haryana spinner Jayant Yadav, who hasn’t played the longer format since India’s Test against Australia in Pune a year ago, makes the selection more intriguing.
 
 As the Indian domestic cricket season reaches its business end and players get ready for the IPL, many would want to carry forward the form from the domestic season to make a statement. Others like Saxena, however, will continue look for smaller platforms with the hope of catching the selectors’ eyes.
 
