Nagpur: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) following pesticide inhalation deaths in the region, has alleged that not a single first information report (FIR) has been registered in the matter so far. “The special investigation team (SIT), formed to probe the deaths following the PIL, has only come up with a vague report,” said the party activists at a press conference here. Not satisfied with the SIT report, AAP has said it would be demanding a judicial inquiry into the deaths. The demand would be put up before the court during the next hearing to be held on February 6, said Aamil Patel of AAP. The party also plans to hold agitations in rural areas seeking action against guilty. Patel claimed that despite 44 deaths due to pesticide inhalation, not a single FIR has been registered. The police could have, at least, registered an FIR against unknown persons to begin with the investigations. The police has recorded a case of unnatural death, however no FIR has been registered after that, he said. Government sources said FIRs were registered against pesticide companies. On this, AAP activist Jammu Anand said it was only for wrong business practices and not for causing the deaths. “We presented the post-mortem report of Pradeep Aware, one of the persons who died due to pesticide inhalation, to the divisional commissioner (Amravati) Piyush Singh. The report clearly mentions that the death was due to contact poisoning (inhalation). A case of unnatural death has been registered, but there has been no FIR following that,” said Patel. Incidentally, Singh headed the SIT. “Aware’s case is a classic example. It’s not only in this case, but no FIR has been registered to probe any of the inhalation deaths,” he said. AAP has also demanded that the SIT members should be made co-accused in the case for their attempt to shield the guilty. “The SIT was mandated to investigate the matter. However, it has only come up with an analysis,” said Anand. “The SIT report has spared the pesticide companies and there has been only a passing mention of failure of the system to report the deaths. The report recommends action against farmers and farm workers if found spraying pesticides without a fitness certificate. This not only puts the whole blame on farmers but also restricts a person’s right to livelihood,” said Anand.