New Delhi: The Supreme Court’s landmark Vishaka judgment mandating every office to set up a committee to deal with women employees’ complaints about   at the workplace has surprisingly not travelled 5 km in 20 years to reach Tis Hazari district courts. With the judiciary preaching strict adherence to law and the need to punish violators, a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud realised on Friday that neither the 20-year-old Vishaka judgment nor the five-year-old Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, has stirred district courts to set up committees to deal with complaints from women advocates and employees.

 A complaint by a woman advocate, who was alleged to have been manhandled by fellow advocates for attempting to attend court on May 4 when the lawyers had struck work over a decision to demolish the chamber complex and rebuild it, brought this anomaly to the fore. 
 
 The bench asked the acting chief justice of Delhi HC to constitute committees for all district courts in Delhi as per the Vishaka judgment and the 2013 Act. tnn
 
 It asked all HCs to ensure committees were set up in all district courts under their jurisdiction as well as in HCs in two months. The SC sought a compliance report by July 15.
 
 The ‘harassed’ woman lawyer had moved the SC, which a few days ago had ordered the Delhi Police to provide her security as she alleged she was constantly threatened by members of the district bar association. When the matter was taken up on Friday, the CJI’s courtroom was packed with members of the district bar, who had turned up in large numbers to show solidarity with advocates named by the woman lawyer in her complaint. A cross FIR was lodged against the complainant by another woman lawyer, allegedly a junior of one of the lawyers accused of manhandling the woman, for theft.
 
 Taking a soft approach to defuse the surcharged situation, the bench 
 
 asked both sides to maintain amity and create a conducive atmosphere to help all lawyers, including women, to practise without fear in all court complexes, and disposed the woman lawyer’s petition.
 
 
