GURUGRAM: The Gurugram sessions court on Tuesday issued a stay on all 24 caveats filed in the   case. The court of Judge   had earlier issued a stay on the lower court’s order, which had on Monday declared that the 464 acres of land under dispute rests with private parties and not MCG. 

 At this, MCG had filed an appeal in the court of lead additional sessions judge J S Kundu. The sessions court had ordered a status quo on 94 of the 118 total cases in the alleged land scam, with 24 cases pending, as the plaintiffs had filed caveats. 
 
 A caveat means in case of an appeal against a court order in a higher court, the latter has to hear the arguments of both parties before it can pass an order. As a result, the court invited both parties in the 24 cases and heard their arguments on Tuesday. “The remaining appeals of MCG were heard today (Tuesday), and stay has been granted by the additional sessions judge on the lower court’s decision,” said MCG commissioner  . The order asked all parties in 98 cases to maintain status quo. In total, 322 affected entities have filed 118 different suits in the case, at the heart of which lies 464 acres of prime land in Gwalpahari, off Gurugram-Faridabad road. “As per the Punjab Village Common Land Act, the land belongs to the panchayat,” said Yadav.
 
 One of the private entities,  , had moved the high court over ownership of the land. The high court had transferred the case to the civil court. In a judgement dated July 2016, the high court had ruled that common land (shamlat deh) in villages that have been notified under municipal corporations but have been contributed by individual land owners to panchayat for agrarian purposes, belong to the original individual owners. 
 
 In its order on April 16 this year, civil judge  , while deciding in favour of the private entities, had ruled, “The plaintiffs are declared to be owners in possession of their respective suit lands in the cases they have prayed to be declared so.” The judge had also declared that all showcause notices issued by MCG to private parties were illegal and void.
 
 The ownership of the   land has been subject of a tussle between the government and private entities since the mid-1950s, when a mutation was carried out, transferring ownership to the gram panchayat. After that, several Gurugram administrators passed a series of contradictory orders that saw ownership of the land swinging between private parties and government.
 
 
