MUMBAI: How did the perpetrators manage to spin an elaborate web of deception at the   over seven years? That’s a $1.8-billion question experts are struggling to answer.

 The form of credit extended to the firms of key accused   and  , and staff access to -- and misuse of -- the Swift messaging systems between PNB and other Indian bank branches overseas are now raising more questions than answers, say commercial bankers and diamond traders alike. For one, securing buyers’ credit and suppliers’ credit through letters of credit or letters of undertaking ( ) would not be considered standard practice in the gems and jewellery sector, said a veteran banker. The industry instead works through a pre-shipment credit of 90 days, and packing or post-shipment credit of around 120 days.
 
 In the mode cited above, there are three   – personal guarantee, office premises, property, etc, and the diamonds themselves, which are hypothecated to the bank. Anoop Mehta, president,  , concurs. “Most jewellery manufacturers and diamond houses use pre-shipment and post-shipment credit facilities.”
 
 A banker focused on this deviation from the traditional industry practice to illustrate where partner banks may have gone wrong. "The fact that an LoU was used should have rung alarm bells in counterparty banks because diamond financing is done through pre-shipment credit for imports. After the rough diamonds are cut and polished in India, the order forms are checked and verified and the receivables are discounted by the bank," said a banker from a private sector bank which is very active in this sort of financing.
 
 In the case of PNB, the checks were not done by the banks and also its counterparty lenders overseas, raising doubts on the number of people who may have helped Modi to keep this scheme going for seven years. India is the world’s largest manufacturer of polished diamonds, importing on average $16 billion of polished diamonds each year.
 
 On the social media, experts also questioned how the messages transmitted through Swift by PNB’s errant employees went undetected. The staff in question used a technology loophole, the non-integration of Swift, a secure network allowing banks to exchange financial information globally, with its core banking solution (CBS), a centralised system that connects all of a bank’s branches and allows its customers to avail of financial services from any branch.
 
 Even if a Swift message originated at the branch level (assuming the Brady House branch of PNB), it is verified at various checkpoints by personnel in various capacities in order to ensure no unwarranted transaction takes place, especially not a money laundering one.
 
 “Why did nobody from PNB’s forex department raise an alarm or at least ask for permission from higher-ups for processing the transactions? Or was it that the higher-ups intentionally ‘shut up’ their juniors and orally coerced them to process it nonetheless?” asked one of the texts. 
 
