BHOPAL: After failing to arrest NRI Atul Anand, Sunil Jain and   in a forgery scam, the Madhya Pradesh   is likely to declare a bounty on the accused. The immigration department has also been alerted, after receiving information, that Bhopal resident Anand has managed to leave India — even after being booked by STF in the forgery case. Anand is an influential lobbyist who has strong connections with highly placed government officials in MP. 

 Officials refused to comment on the issue. STF had registered an FIR against Sunny and two other Mumbai residents for allegedly duping a farmer of Rs 1 crore under the guise of mining business. Their plea for anticipatory bail was rejected by a special court in Bhopal recently. This is said to be one of the most high-profile cases registered by STF. While Atul Anand, alias Sunny, is a resident of Dubai, Sunil Jain and Rajesh Kapoor live in Mumbai. They have been booked on a complaint lodged by Sanjay Chouhan, a resident of Raisen district, who has dual citizenship of India and UAE and owns a house in Bhopal’s Trilanga.
 
 Sunil is the brother of Mumbai-based builder Pradeep Jain, who was shot by gangster Abu Salem in 1995 and Kapoor is a chartered accountant. Sunny and Kapoor are associated with a company named JS Wisher Apparels Private Limited, registered with Registrar of Companies (RoC), Mumbai, which says it is involved in spinning, weaving and finishing of textiles, say STF sources. Chouhan and Sunny were friends for over a decade when Sunny persuaded him to start a mining business.
 
  In 2011, he introduced him to Sunil Jain, saying he was interested in setting up a mining business in MP. H was offered a post of director in the company besides a share of 45%, while Sunil Jain said he will keep 45% share and 10% would be with Sunny, says STF. He was told that the company has started mining in Ghurapurva area of Chhatarpur . Chouhan was also taken to the site by the accused. Later, he found out that the company that they showed him was operated by someone else. By the time, he realised this, he had been cheated of Rs 1 crore.
 
 
