
 
 
 
 
 I am keeping my word. I have said that I have become chief minister with the motive of taking Punjab out of the mess we are in. If I am successful in doing that in my four years, then I’ll hang up my boots. If I am not and I feel that I can be of use in the future, then I’ll stay. The situation is worse than I thought, but I think in the next four years we can put it on track.
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 How does one rate the performance of a chief minister whose hands are tied by a severe lack of resources? Should I rank myself on the basis of intent, or the number of promises I have implemented, or the trust I have succeeded in creating among the people for the systems of governance? All I can say is that there is still a long way to go, but eventually we will get there.
 
 
 
 
 We, in the government, have spent the last one year initiating the process of economic revival, coupled with employment generation. If I have to list down the 5 things that will help us achieve that, then I would say:
 
 i) Bring more industry into the state by pushing agenda of `Business First’
 
 ii) Focus on skill development to boost employability
 
 iii) Promote entrepreneurship to make youth self-reliant
 
 iv) Push crop diversification to boost farm income
 
 v) Facilitate NRIs keen to participate in the development of Punjab
 
  
 
 
 
 When we took over, we did not have facts and figures. We did not know what the outstanding debt was. Rs 2.08 lakh crore was the debt of the state and the revenue deficit was Rs 14,000 crore. So, we were totally in the dumps. Even today, we are borrowing to pay salaries. I have just borrowed Rs 600 crore. Our salaries are nearly Rs 2,800 crore per month mainly because GST has not started rolling the way it should be. In December, we were about 14-15 days late getting our share of GST. Delhi has not streamlined. These things have put us back and we have taken over a lot of debt.
 
 
 
 
 Those were not monetary decisions and were related to good governance. Like VIP culture ban. Monetary ones are all related to availability. Like the debt waiver. I hope we will be doing the debt waiver’s second lot in the first week of March. Roughly 4 lakh will be covered by March and by November we will finish. Pensions had been pending for 10 months and that was Rs 500 a month. We are now giving Rs 750 from January 1. We will then pay quarterly arrears on pensions.
 
 
 
 Let’s not confuse claims with facts. Tell me one area in which they ensured development of the state. Whether infrastructure or agriculture, industry or economic growth, Punjab fell behind on every index during their tenure. And this is not a mere claim – it is backed by hard numbers. The state’s own revenue, which was 77.34% of total revenue receipts in 2006-07, declined to 68.5% in 2016-2017. The growth rate of the state in 2006-2007 was 10.18%, which was higher than the all-India average of 9.57%. By 2016-17, it had fallen to 4.2% of all-India average of 7.5%. The financial precariousness of the previous government had a direct impact on our government, as you can see. So, there is no question of hiding behind anything. Yet, as you would appreciate, we are managing. And while salaries do get delayed, we are not holding them back.
 
 
 
 
 Look, Rajasthan has given a Rs 50,000 debt waiver. We are the only state giving Rs 2 lakh. If I have the money, I would like to give more. If I cover all 17.50 lakh families and pay them in toto, it will be Rs 67,000 crore. We are not doing that. We are giving 10.25 lakh families up to Rs 2 lakh.
 
  
 
 
 
 That is not correct. We have delayed implementation, not because of the shortage of money. I have today got Rs 4,000 crore that I can pay out. But we are verifying the details as to who deserves it and who doesn’t. Here’s what people are doing. I have two sons and give them one acre each to approach the government for a debt waiver. They are all living in the same house but both sons claim waiver. That is not right. We have also started the self-certification process.
 
 
 
 
 Let me make it clear that promises like smartphones were not time-bound and I remain committed to its implementation. But every government, including those that do not suffer from serious financial problems like ours, has its own set of priorities when it comes to implementing promises. Compared to farm loan waiver, industrial development and employment generation, smartphones are naturally less of a priority, but will be delivered as promised as soon as we are in a position to allocate the necessary funds for it.
 
 On drugs, I am happy say that the STF has effectively rid the state of drugs, which are no longer available virtually off the shelf as they were earlier. We successfully broke the backbone of the drug mafia and I challenge anyone to prove to the contrary.
 
 The Ghar Rozgar scheme is also well on the way to implementation. There are 90 lakh unemployed youth in the state and I do not have a magic wand with which I could have given jobs to all in less than a year. But we are well on way to taking the process forward. Job letters were issued to 27,000 youth in the mega job fair at Mohali, and we are going to have another in early March. So far, 55 job fairs have been organized by the department of employment generation and 22 by the technical education department. We have signed 34 MoUs providing employment to around 2.8 lakh youth, besides immediate recruitment of another 50,000 people across various categories in government departments and organizations.
 
 On the bigger question of whether political parties should or shouldn’t make promises, I agree that they should not make promises they can’t keep. However, my government has every intention of keeping every promise.
 
  
 
 
 
 I have not received any such complaints, nor is there any ground to believe that bureaucracy has been given unbridled powers of any kind. I meet the MLAs regularly and I am also constantly interacting with the bureaucracy and I have made it clear to both that they have to work together, in a spirit of mutual respect, in the interest of the state and its people. It is quite evident that things are moving in the right direction. Difference of opinion cannot, and should not be interpreted as complaints by either side.
 
 
 
 
 What army? I have just three advisers, and all of them are professionals of high caliber. They have clearly demarcated roles which they are well equipped to handle. As far as pay packages are concerned, I would be the first to admit that the scales in the government are way behind those offered by the private sector – one major reason why we are not able to attract the best of talent. And in any case, we have not done something unique. Governments across the world opt for advisers to lend the edge they need to drive greater efficiencies and augment their existing strengths.
 
 
 
 
 Do I need to sit in the Secretariat to be accessible? I have a full-fledged official residence, which is more conducive to entertaining a large number of people, including officials who come to meet me every day. Besides, I hold meetings at Punjab Bhawan. The Secretariat office cannot accommodate such a huge number on a daily basis and provide the privacy needed to conduct official business. Our Cabinet meetings are held in the Secretariat. Whether it is MLAs or officials or citizens of Punjab, all they have to do is take an appointment and meet me, which is what they would have to do even if I were to sit in the Secretariat.
 
 
 
 
 That is a very myopic way of looking at things. Just because a person has retired, it does not reflect on his functional capabilities, does it? In any case, what is wrong with getting serving and retired officers to work together as a team especially when faced with a crisis? I am all for using a person’s experience and expertise, irrespective of his age, unless the age factor has become a detriment in some manner. And we are not unique in following this policy.
 
 
 
 
 We have to try and do something for the large number of unemployed youth. Unemployment leads to law and order problems and to drug addiction. We are going to bring in industry. In the last few months, may be because of our policies like Rs 5 per unit power to industry, there were over 100 MoUs signed. I don’t know how many of them will come on the ground. Hopefully, we’ll get one or two very big projects for Punjab which are related to defence projects. Private players are coming in defence technology.
 
 
 
 
 Missiles. We have to wait and see what exactly comes. Whether it is the mortar portion or the missile portion.
 
 
 
 I think the thought of war is a thing of the past now unless something goes haywire. When they (Pakistan) can come right up to the border (with industry), why can’t we? I am suggesting Fazilka and Ferozepur because then you are next to the desert and you can have your trial ranges there. And a lot of people have shown interest. One of the things attracting them is our power package. In morning shift, units will pay Rs 5 (per unit), in the evening shift it will go down to Rs 3.50. So, the average will come to Rs 4. Nobody is doing this in the country.
 
 
 
 
 It depends. We have two rates. One is fixed rate and another is variable rate. With the variable rate, it will come down in the continuous process industry. Like in the steel industry, it will be less than Rs 5. Night rates are even lesser than Rs 5. If it is just the morning shift industry then it comes to around Rs 5.50 per unit.
 
 
 
 We have set up special teams under deputy commissioners to tackle the problem. They have been tasked to stop every truck and check it. We can’t do more than that, short of shooting them (laughs). The problem is that you give a mining contract for a particular area and they end up digging 20 times more. You are not allowed to use machines in 2018 and are supposed to dig it with hand tools. Now there they have got JCBs (earth movers). But times have changed and this should be acceptable. Secondly, extortion is going on. They don’t have stake in any mine but because the mine is in their territory, they charge protection money.
 
 
 
 Ending it in four weeks does not mean you will not find even a packet of drugs in Punjab. That is not possible. We have brought pressure to such an extent that around 12,000 drug dealers are behind bars. We are now catching higher ones. In addition to that, we have strengthened the STF. They don’t need constables. They need intelligent people, computer-savvy people. We are going to give them more manpower. I think we have been quite successful by this fact that today the cost of drugs on the streets has more than doubled.
 
  
 
 
 
 How many officers have volunteered to take on Naxals? He (special task force chief H S Sidhu) is the man who has come here and he is heading that unit. They are concentrating 100% on drugs. Police are concentrating on umpteen things. But that doesn’t mean that they are not concentrating on the drugs. The STF head has to collaborate with the police.
 
 
 
 
 I have said earlier that we need a national drug policy to decide on such matters. At present, there are some states which have deemed opium to be legal, while others do not. So the Centre needs to formulate a comprehensive drugs policy for the entire country, in consultation with the states.
 
 
 
 We have not invested in any new memorials. We have merely carried forward the work started by the SAD-BJP government. Since a lot of money has already been spent on these memorials, it makes more sense to complete the work than to abandon them and waste public money. I am told they had spent Rs 2,000 crore in constructing religious memorials in the state.
 
 This approach, in fact, holds true not only for memorials but other projects initiated by the previous government, some (if not all) of which were definitely ill-conceived. BRTS in Amritsar is an example, which we are trying to salvage in larger public interest.
 
 
 
 
 
 It is not correct to say that we have decided to close down these schools. We have only decided to merge these schools, which had fewer than 20 students, with other primary schools situated within a kilometre’s range. I do not see anything wrong in this. For students, travelling an extra kilometre or so is not a problem. On the other hand, they actually gain by studying in bigger and better equipped schools. When education, like every other department in the government, is facing severe financial problems, optimisation of resources becomes not only essential, but imperative.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, it is a matter of concern that terror modules are actively operating against Punjab from across the borders. But the recent successes of the Punjab Police give me hope that these modules will be destroyed over the next few months. The police and intelligence wings have done a remarkable job so far, and I am sure their crackdown on the terror modules, as well as criminal gangs, will continue to yield positive results.
 
  
 
 
 It is unfortunate that certain vested interests were able to internationalise the issue and give it a negative colour. Our stand is very clear – we will not bow down to political or diplomatic pressure to allow a criminal, with clear evidence against him, to go scot free. He has been provided access to all legal tools, including meetings with UK high commission officials, and all legal provisions having been strictly adhered to. It is now up to the judiciary to decide his innocence or guilt, and governments should not interfere in the judicial process. Governments of other countries need to realize that by defending such people they are creating a dangerous environment, not just for us but for themselves too, in the long run.
 
 
 
 
 This is totally condemnable. A gurdwara is a religious place and open to all people who want to pay their respects to the holy Guru. Anyone, be it Sikh or non-Sikh, can enter the ‘guru ka ghar’ to pay obeisance and partake the langar. It is against Sikhi tenets to stop anyone from entering gurdwaras. It has never happened before, in history of Sikhism, and should not be allowed at any cost.
 
 
 
 
 Nobody in Punjab wants division or a separate state. They only want to live and progress peacefully. Unfortunately, there are elements that are playing into the hands of divisive forces, including the ISI, whose only agenda is to create tensions and instability in the state. These are fringe elements who resort to aggression and violent sloganeering to further their nefarious designs. What can one talk to them about? They do not have anything to talk about, they only have an agenda which they want to promote at any cost. I will never allow anything against Punjab to succeed.
 
 
 
 
 No, the movement will never revive because we are still suffering its effects. Three generations have gone through those times. It is this new generation coming from abroad which has never lived through those times that is creating problems for me. By the way, I do Facebook for an hour-and-a-half every evening. They (radical groups) are not getting much response. What I am worried about is that there is some fringe element sending money here for buying weapons to give them to gangsters. It is absolutely clear either they lay down their arms or face consequences. There is no other way.
 
 
 My stand remains the same. Anyone found guilty should be punished and justice should be meted out to those who have suffered. If there are people who still have false cases hanging around their necks, investigations should be expeditiously completed and closed so that their miseries are brought to an end. We cannot and should not continue to delay and deny justice to the innocent victims. Having said that, I would also like to reiterate that 30 years after the carnage, it is time for us to move on and not use every available opportunity to make it a case for political vendetta.
 
 
 
 
 These are matters which are still in the process of deliberation and discussion. I will be meeting Rahul Gandhi soon to thrash out the details.?
 
 
