The first ever season of 
  started on Sunday (April 15) and the grand premiere started with viewer's reaction on its launch. Entire   seemed to be excited for the first ever season of Bigg Boss on Marathi television.

 Bigg Boss Marathi host and veteran actor   will be seen to the   only through '
 ' which is set in the Meeting aka 
  room. The house has a Marathi touch in the interior with 
  and many other things related to Maharashtrian culture. 
 
 Mahesh introduced the contestants of the show and the first contestant to enter the house was Resham Tipnis. She performed a 
  dance on a few Marathi and Bollywood hits.
 
 Second contestant to enter the house was comedy star Vinit Bonde. Vinit got married just a month back and still he got ready to enter the Bigg Boss house.
 
 The first 
 , who got the entry in the house, was reel life couple from the show Saraswati, Aastad Kale and Jui Gadkari. The popular jodi performed on some romantic hits before entering the house.
 
 
 
 
 
 The fifth contestant is a former journalist Anil Thatte, known for his unique fashion sense. Anil said, "I have never made tea in my entire life. But for the past 15 days, my wife was teaching me how to cook, just for this show."
 
 The sixth contestant is one of the bold actresses from the Marathi industry - Smita Gondkar. 
  fame actress entered the house with a dashing entry on bike.
 
 Then entered the second hit 
  in the house. Comedy stars Bhushan Kadu and Aarti Solanki, who were set to entertain everyone from the house with their perfect comedy timings.
 
 Then came veteran actress  , she had confirmed the news of her entry with TimesofIndia.com. She is the seniormost contestant of all the seasons of Bigg Boss till now. Usha got emotional while sharing her life journey on the stage of Bigg Boss Marathi.
 
 Megha Dhade was the tenth contestant who entered the Bigg Boss Marathi house by saying, “
 " The actress said that she has spent lakhs shopping for her 100 days stay in the Bigg Boss house. She complemented Mahesh by saying, "You are the coolest dude, I have ever seen."
  
 The third hit 
  to enter the Bigg Boss house was Pushkar Jog and Sai Lokur. It was the first time, they shared screen with each other and they danced on Tamma Tamma.
 
 Rutuja Dharmadhikari aka Sushlya, who became hit after the show 
  was the thirteenth contestant of the show. She gave an intense performance on horror songs during her entry in the house. 
 
 The last two contestants who entered the Bigg Boss Marathi house were Sushant Shelar and Rajesh Shringarpore. They have worked together in hit political drama Zenda. Sushant Shelar during his entry said, "
 " to which Mahesh replied, "
 ."
 
 After the entry of all the 15 contestants, everyone in the house started performing a 
  dance. 
 
 Bigg Boss then gave Mahesh Manjrekar the first task of locking the house and kicking off the first season of Bigg Boss Marathi.
 
 Since all the versions have been successful so far we will have to wait and watch how will the Marathi version of this controversial reality show perform now. 
 
 
  
 
