MANSA: To promote reading and love for literature among the government primary school students, 50 teachers have joined hands to open libraries in these   in   district. The teachers have formed Sikhya Vikas Manch for the purpose and plan to launch libraries in nearly 100 primary schools here.

 Initiated over two months ago, the panel opened the fifth library on Monday and another will start on Tuesday. These libraries are being opened in the schools located in the native villages of eminent people or those who laid down lives fighting the enemy or for a social cause.
 
 The first such library opened on March 7 at Kishangarh Pharmahi, the native village of Sahitya Akademi awardee playwright Professor Ajmer Aulakh. The fifth library on Monday opened at Khiala Kalan village primary school in the name of Sepoy Uday Singh who had laid down his life in the 1965 India-Pakistan war.
 
 On Tuesday, the library, in the name of Comrade Ishar Singh, will come up at Tamkot. Ishar played a leading role in the movement for gaining lands for peasants in the 1950s.
 
 “Going by the taste for literature and very meagre funds to promote book culture among the students of rural areas, 50 teachers decided to inculcate cultural leanings among students. We decided to start libraries in primary schools, and for that we decided to contribute Rs 1,000 per month. With that money we created infrastructure in the schools and are motivating villagers to purchase books for libraries,” said Sikhya Vikas Manch president Hardeep Singh Sidhu.
 
 Manch general secretary Rajesh Budhlada said, “We started with the opening of the library at Prof Ajmer Aulakh’s village on March 7. He had spent his life in promoting rural theatre with his whole family. He passed away last year.”
 
 Sidhu said on March 14, they started the second library at the primary school of Kallo village in the name of Sepoy Amandeep Singh who had died fighting the enemies at Kupwara sector of Jammu and Kashmir on March 4.
 
 Third library opened at Chak Bhai Ka village on March 20 in the name of Sepoy Sukhwinder Singh who sacrificed his life on March 10 in J&K.
 
 The next library opened at Kotda Kalan primary school on April 23 in the name of teacher Manjit Singh Kotda who had died August 1, 2017 due to illness at the age of 40 years.
 
 The fifth library is devoted to Sepoy Uday of Khiala Kalan, who had attained martyrdom during the 1965 Indo-Pak war on September 1, 1965. Uday was only 19 years old then. His 70-year-old brother Balbir Singh, who is an ex-serviceman, said, “It is after over 52 long years that we have been able to see a memorial in the name of our beloved. We are happy that Manch decided to dedicate the library in the name of martyr.”
 
 
