PATIALA: The New Zealand national, whose 24-year-old daughter was traced to Patiala home of her boyfriend after she was reported to be “missing” from   on March 14, has refused to leave the country without her even as the   claim the matter has been resolved.

 Craig Doody, while speaking to TOI over phone from his hotel in Delhi, said he has again sought the help of the New Zealand embassy in getting Jessica back, whose mental age, he said, is that of a 14-year-old.
 
 Craig also produced a New Zealand court order which stated “According to her medical report, Jessica is suffering from incapacity arising from developmental delay and is very vulnerable to the influence of unscrupulous predators.” “Her naiveté and inexperience in world travel is such that she is at a serious risk and an interim personal order is made that Jessica is not to leave New Zealand unless in the company of her mother (Sarah Doody) or sister,” the court order read. Craig said the matter was still pending in the court.
 
 Craig said he had sent these documents to the Patiala police through the embassy and produced them before the cops when he was allowed to meet his daughter for five minutes at a police station in Patiala on April 5. But the officers refused to acknowledge these documents and asked him to send them through the New Zealand government, Craig said. Surprised at the police response, Craig said these documents had been sent through the   embassy and he could not make out who else was to send them to the police. He said he has been told by the high commissioner that they had again taken up the matter with the Patiala police and were working on the case.
 
 The police had found Jessica staying with her boyfriend Gurdeep Singh, alias Gary, and his family. Gurdeep was deported from New Zealand in December last year due to some visa irregularities. He had gone to New Zealand on a student visa and then moved to a work visa. Jessica and Gurdeep met in Christchurch two years ago and were in a steady relationship.
 
 On March 14, Jessica travelled to New Delhi via   in China and reached Patiala. Her family was informed about her presence here on March 26 and Craig reached Patiala on April 1.
 
 Meanwhile, the   wing of the state police continued to maintain that the matter had been resolved. While the new details were shared with AIG NRI wing  , he refused to comments.
 
 Police on Friday claimed that as Jessica was a major and had travelled on valid documents, no action could be taken against her or her boyfriend Gurdeep.
 
 Outrage in New Zealand 
 
 The social media page of Craig Doody has been flooded with messages from friends and members of the local community in NZ expressing outrage over the manner in which the authorities had failed in helping him to get his daughter back. The members have expressed sympathies with the family and offered prayers so that he could bring his daughter back to New Zealand.
 
 ‘Flew out on changed identity’
 
 Craig Doody said despite the court’s order, his daughter Jessica, 24, managed to fly out of New Zealand on a changed identify in which one  , who is a friend of her boyfriend Gurdeep, helped her
 
 Mandeep travelled along with Jessica to India and took her to Gurdeep’s house in Patiala, Craig said
 
 The family has already named Mandeep Singh in the missing case being looked into by the Kiwi police
 
 The family found Jessica had legally changed her name and got a new passport issued to fly out of the country as her name had been red-flagged due to the court orders.
 
 Craig said his daughter had been brainwashed and he would not let her stay in India as he feared for her safety.
 
 
