NEW DELHI: The   admitted that 
  has had the effect of creating uncertainty and pushed for an “early elimination of withdrawal limits” to help build confidence. 

 “Unless people have confidence that money deposited in bank accounts is freely convertible into cash, and vice versa…they will hoard it,” the Survey warned, adding that the poor would be worst hit in such a situation since the affluent would corner the limited currency available. 
 
 About the immediate adverse impact of  , the Survey noted that there have been reports of job losses, declines in farm incomes, and social disruption, especially in the informal, cash-intensive parts of the economy. However, it said “a systematic analysis cannot be included here due to paucity of macro-economic data”. 
 
 It acknowledged that the cash crunch must have affected the informal economy, which could account for 50% or more of the overall economy. The   too would have suffered because workers laid off in the informal economy have bought fewer products (such as fast moving consumer goods or two wheelers) from the formal economy. 
 
 Among the sectors the Survey specifically looked at, it conceded that real estate had been badly hit but expressed the view that this was not entirely a bad thing. “An equilibrium reduction in real estate prices is desirable as it will lead to affordable housing for the middle class, and facilitate labour mobility across India currently impeded by high and unaffordable rents,” it said. 
 
 In the short run, demonetisation could also affect supplies of agricultural products like milk, sugar, potatoes and onions, the Survey said. It cautioned that “vigilance is essential to prevent other agricultural products becoming in 2017-18 what pulses was in 2015-16 in terms of supply deficiencies and consequential higher inflation”. 
 
 Defending the long-term virtues of demonetisation, the Survey said it could be interpreted as a demonstration of the 
  , showing that tax evasion would no longer be tolerated. “Since this action has commanded support amongst the population, demonetisation shows that black money will no longer be tolerated by the wider public, either,” it added. 
 
 It said the combined effects of the financial penalty cash hoarders have had to pay – either by declaring incomes they had concealed so far or by having to shell out a “conversion” cost for turning black money white through intermediaries – and of “social condemnation” could have a powerful and long-lasting effect on corruption and tax compliance. 
 
 The  , as well as the size of the formal economy, could be permanently higher, the Survey said, adding that if it was successful it would in the long run reduce the cash-GDP and cash-deposits ratios, thereby increasing financial savings and boosting long-term growth.
 
