Gurgaon: On the lines of the global trend of bringing one’s pets to work, a Gurgaon-based co-working space,  , held an event on Friday. 

 The ‘Bring Your Pets To Work’ event consisted of employees bringing their pets to office. The day-long event was organised in association with Flying Fur, a mobile pet grooming service, and Fur Ball Story, a startup that works with therapy dogs, including breeds like bearded collies, sheepdogs, and spitz.
 
 Rajiv Chabbra, who works out of GoWork for Cox and Kings — a travel firm — had a furry Friday as he and his co-workers spent the day pampering dogs from the area surrounding their office in Udyog Vihar. 
 
 “Since pet dogs get pampered all the time, I thought of bringing in five stray dogs. All of them got salon sessions. A few people volunteered to adopt three of them too” said Chabbra. 
 
 “I think the idea of getting dogs to work is a great one. There were a lot of therapy dogs too, and my dog Coco had a great time playing with them and with my fellow colleagues,” said Shivali Mehta, who has a sptiz.
 
 While the trend is a growing one across the world, in India, very few companies allow employees to bring pets to work due to lack of pet crèches. But the trend is slowly catching up, owing to the modern, animal-friendly millennial workforce. 
 
 “The millennial workforce is trying to change the conventional office setting that often ignores the human spirit with their protocol. We aim to work towards making campuses more employee-friendly by catering to the emotional needs of the modern employee. 
 
 “Our campuses have already been declared pet-friendly, and the Pet Play Day event is a significant step towards further underlining our position as a state-of-the-art co-working space for professionals, and their pets, to work, play and be happy,” said Sudeep Singh, chief evangelist, GoWork.
 
 He added that seeing a positive response during the event from employees, GoWork might tie-up with organisations to introduce a pet crèche facility in their office. 
 
 Notably, studies suggest that bringing dogs to work can help reduce stress and increase overall work efficiency. 
 
 
