Vadodara: Healthcare facilities at multiple private hospitals across the city came to a standstill on Tuesday as thousands of doctors went on a 12-hour strike in protest against the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill. 

 The outpatient departments (OPDs) in private hospitals remained closed in support of the strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA). Emergency and other critical services, however, were operational. 
 
 “The call to observe black day against the draconian provisions of NMC was completely successful as all our 2,800 plus members had suspended the routine health services between 6 am and 6 pm. Doctors owned corporate hospitals too had suspended OPD services,” said Dr Paresh Majumdar, joint secretary of IMA Gujarat branch and chairman of the Vadodara chapter of Hospital Board of India. 
 
 “A huge gathering of doctors had also joined in the programme held at Amphitheatre at Kamatibaug where the provisions of the bill were discussed,” said Dr Bakulesh Chauhan, immediate past president of IMA Vadodara, adding that since the message that no emergency services should suffer was also well passed to all the members. 
 
 IMA Delhi later in the day called off the protest after union minister Ananth Kumar announced that the bill has been sent to a standing committee which is expected to submit its report before the budget session. 
 
 IMA had given the protest call against the bill that seeks to replace the Medical Council of India (MCI) with a new body terming the centre’s move as anti-poor, anti-people, non-representative, undemocratic and anti-federal in character. 
 
 Among other things, the bill seeks to allow practitioners of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homoeopathy, to practice modern medicine once they complete a short term “bridge” course. 
 
 IMA is opposing the bill stating that it will “cripple” the functioning of medical professionals by making them completely answerable to the bureaucracy and non-medical administrators. 
 
 The draft bill allows private medical colleges to charge at will, IMA has said, adding that the bill also has provision whereby the commission will have a government-nominated chairman and members and the board members will be selected by a search committee under the cabinet secretary.
 
 
