NOIDA: Starting from Thursday, visitors to Sector 18 market can expect some relief from traffic woes as the   has said that it would not allow vehicles to park anywhere on the streets from February 1. The decision came a week after the long-awaited multi-level parking facility was opened to the public.

 Only 1,340 vehicles will be allowed to park at 50 designated spots in the commercial complex, while the rest will have to park within the eight-floor parking facility. Anyone parking at spots other than those earmarked will be fined Rs 1,000 and their vehicles will be towed away,   officials said.
 
 According to officials, the management and operations of the multi-level parking facility, as well as parking in the entire sector, will be handled by   from February 1. “We have reserved about 18,000sqm of space for parking along the surface area of Sector 18,” said SC Mishra, Noida Authority project engineer and work circle incharge of the area. “We have designated particular areas for parking of 1,060 four-wheelers and 280 two-wheelers in the area. The parking facility can park an additional 3,000 vehicles, including 2,280 four-wheelers and 180 two-wheelers,” he said. 
 
 “If vehicles are parked anywhere other than at these spots, they will be towed away. Also, a fine of Rs 1,000 will be levied on four-wheelers and Rs 500 on two-wheelers. We will not allow double parking or parking at crossroads. Display boards will be installed to inform vehicle owners about the designated parking spots,” Mishra added.
 
 In an attempt to deter motorists from parking in the congested market area, Noida Authority has also set the parking at Rs 20 and Rs 10 per hour for four and two-wheelers, respectively.
 
 Within the multi-level parking complex, four-wheelers will be charged Rs 30 for the first two hours and thereafter Rs 10 every hour. Two-wheelers will have to pay Rs 10 for first two hours and Rs 5 per subsequent hour.
 
 “The safety and security of vehicles will be the responsibility of the contractor. They will soon introduce smart car parking. Boom barrier, digital displays, UV sensors and   cameras will be installed inside the facility within the next three months. The facility will also be fully equipped with fire safety measures,” Mishra said.
 
 “Vehicles will be allowed to park from 8am to midnight inside the parking facility. If vehicles are not collected by owners the same day, a fine of Rs 500 per day will be levied,” he added.
 
 
