KANNUR: In a compromise move with ‘renegades’, considered quite rare in the  , the leadership has offered to take back embittered party workers of Keezhattur in the district, who were suspended following their opposition to the national highway bypass through their paddy field.

 The party leadership made the offer in the wake of the decision of  , the collective of the residents of Keezhattur, comprising mostly of CPM workers, that they would hold a long march to Thiruvananthapuram in May, if the CPM leadership and the government are adamant on constructing the   by levelling the paddy field.
 
 On Wednesday morning CPM district secretary  , district committee member K Santhosh, Thaliparamba area secretary   and a few other local leaders visited the house of some party members who were suspended a couple of months ago, and offered to bring them back to the party fold if they were willing to issue a joint statement saying that they would rectify their mistake.
 
 The leadership met only four out of the 11 suspended party members, as some of them were not in their house since the party was not keen on meeting a few others. All of them made it clear that they have no enmity with the party, but in order to return to the party fold, the leadership should change its stance.
 
 “We are still CPM sympathizers and we don’t want to join hands with any other political party, but first the party should approve our stance and promise that it is ready for an alternative alignment,” said P Balan, a suspended CPM worker of Keezhattur, whom the leaders met. Incidentally, the party made this move amid the speculation that the BJP is trying to hijack the campaign by Vayalkilikal, with the promise that they would intervene to change the alignment of the bypass.
 
 This is a positive development, said Suresh Keezhattur, a CPM sympathizer, who is at the helm of the campaign by Vayalkilikal.
 
 “We are happy that the party has expressed willingness to hold discussion with us at least now, but we would be able to do something only if the leaders stop campaigning for the road through the paddy field,” he said.
 
 CPM area secretary P Mukundan said there is nothing unusual in holding a discussion with them.
 
 “They are all part of our family and we want them back, so we held discussions with them and their response was also highly positive,” he said, adding that the party is hopeful of solving the issues amicably.
 
