Surat: Officials of Athwa zone of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) have started a new survey to identify old dilapidated buildings in their zone following three incidents of wall collapse in last one week where three persons lost their lives.   During the earlier survey, SMC had identified 71 properties that either needed repairs or needed to be brought down immediately. However, the new survey over the last three days suggested that the number of dilapidated properties could reach 100.    Out of these, 12 properties have been brought down and seven still remain to be demolished. Notices for immediate repairs are being regularly issued to these property owners.    Officials said that some of the oldest high-rise buildings of Surat are located in the area and poor maintenance has left the structures in bad condition. In many places, people have still not vacated old buildings despite notice from the civic body.    “Development of Surat city took place first in Athwa ward and TP number 5. Most of these high-rise buildings with 10 floors were built in 1980s. Poor maintenance has deteriorated the strength of the building structure over the last 30-35 years,” a SMC official from Athwa zone said.    Associate professor of structural engineering in Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) Dr S N Desai, who has recommended structural repairs of at least 200 buildings in Surat, said, “The major reason for dilapidated building is the poor quality of construction material used during that period. The steel and concrete both were of poor quality. Improper concealed wiring and power lines has led to lot of corrosion over a period of time. Strength of steel has almost weakened due to corrosion and so we see many incidents of slab collapse.”    “We also observed that cheap paint was used on the outer walls that allowed a lot of water seepage. This has made the structure hollow from within. In addition to that when it is not regularly maintained, it is inviting trouble,” he added. Another expert on structural engineering said many buildings have used saline water from their borewell for construction of the buildings, which led to corrosion.    “The use of saline water during construction has lead to major issues,” Desai said.    Zonal chief and additional city engineer, SMC, A G Khatiwala said, “We cant put people’s lives at risk. Many times people don’t understand that. Now unless owners of such old buildings follow our instructions, we will take strict action.”     