LUCKNOW: With focus on ‘gaon, gai and kisan’ (villages, cows and agriculture), the second budget of   government, to be tabled on Friday, is likely to set the roadmap for 2019 Lok Sabha elections for BJP. Besides,   for industries are likely to be hiked substantially as the government is aggressively wooing investors through special packages and concessions in view of the investor’s summit to be held February 21-22.

 The size of Yogi government’s first budget last year was Rs 3.84 lakh crore. This time, it is likely to touch Rs 4.50 lakh crore-mark — the largest by any government in the state in which finance minister Rajesh Agarwal is likely to unveil an amalgamation of development and welfare in the form of new schemes for farmers, youth and skilled hands, who are said to be distressed in the post-demonetisation and GST era.
 
  
  
 
 In his first budget, the BJP-led government had faced financial constraints while implementing its poll promise of loan waiver to 86 lakh farmers which had taken a financial commitment of Rs 36,000. It had tied up the hands of the BJP government in the previous budget as a result of it could announced very few welfare schemes. However, this time when the 2019 LS elections are close and UP, with maximum 80 seats, is set to play a key role for any party to rule at the Centre, the BJP government is likely to open its purse-strings for farmers, artisans, youth, infrastructure and urban development.
 
 Committed to doubling farmers’ income, the government may announce new irrigation scheme with a large fund, measures for improving soil health and new marketing platforms for purchasing the farm produce and some subsidies.
 
 In order to promote ‘one district one product’ scheme, the government may also announce some new schemes under the skill development programme to train the youth with new skills and to make them self-employed.
 
 Another focus in the budget is likely to be cows their conservation. Therefore, one can expect new schemes for dairy development, establishment of cow sheds, and special assistance for cow rearing. Similarly, the budget may also focus on pilgrimages and religious places with additional funds, beautification, developmental projects and aviation services.
 
 After farmers and youth, the budget is also likely to focus on infrastructure — mainly Poorvanchal and Bundelkhand expressways, apart from Metros in Kanpur, Meerut and Agra.
 
 
