AMBALA: Around six men entered a jewellery shop and attempted to rob a jewellery shop in Sarafa Bazar in   on Sunday evening around 4.30. However, they failed to take away anything. 

 As the jewellers were about to close their shop for the day, six men with covered faces entered the shop, pointed guns and started beating them up, while trying to rob the shop. The entire incident has been recorded in the store's CCTV camera. The thugs however did not get a chance to fire any gunshot at the shopkeepers, who fought back the thugs while trying to protect the items in the shop.
 
 In the camera footage, it could be seen that faces of two of them were uncovered during the brawl with the shopkeepers. This can possibly help police in identifying them.
 
 According to the footage, the gang of robbers thrashed the shopkeepers with the gun butts. The shopkeepers also fought back.
 
 They also raised alarm at the same time, when shopkeepers from the nearby stores gathered at the spot and the robbers had to flee.
 
 The injured owners -a father-son duo- were taken to the civil hospital in Ambala. They were sent back home after treatment. The jewellers opened their shop again on Monday after police assured them of protection in their area.
 
 After the incident, panic gripped the shopkeepers in Sarafa Bazar area, who then questioned the functioning of police in safeguarding the city.
 
 Investigation officer assistant sub-inspector   said on the basis of the complaint of injured jewellers, we have registered a case at the police post number 3 in Ambala city police station against the unknown five to six persons under Section 395 (punishment for dacoity) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 25/54/59 of Arms Act. Amar added that we have collected the CCTV footage from the shopkeepers and are investigating to identify the robbers from it.
 
 Talking to TOI, the superintendent of police (SP), Abhishek Jorwal said after the incident I have deployed three armed riders especially for the Sarafa Bazar who will be keeping an eye on the area from 10am to 8pm till the shops are open in the market. Jorwal added that from the initial investigation, it has been known that the car used by the robbers to flee from the market was stolen from Sampla village in Rohtak district a few days ago.
 
 
