Kolkata: Before Riddhi Sen got the Best Actor award from the President for his performance in “Nagarkirtan”, he said “the relevance of the awards lies in the people who make the decisions”. While he didn’t support the last-minute decision of the President giving away awards to only 11 recipients and thereby discriminating others, he also maintained that this award will not be remembered for who handed them over.

 Actor Kaushik Sen, who accompanied son Riddhi to the ceremony, said “Nagarkirtan” director Kaushik Ganguly’s face has first come to mind when the National Awards were announced. “If Riddhi hadn’t got the award from the President, my wife and I would have advised him to go and accept it from whoever confers it to him. This honour is bestowed on him by the jury member team and Shekhar Kapoor. While we understand and respect the sentiments of those who didn’t turn up, I beg to differ with their decision,” Kaushik Sen said.
 
 Riddhi, on his part, added, “We got to know at the last minute that a new rule has been made. Now, in all these years, this has never happened. We know, it is the President who hands over the awards. So it’s very shocking for everyone. But with due respect to the President and Smriti Irani, the jury comprises the most notable film makers, critics and writers who watch these films. They are the people who actually decide on the awards, who give away this honour to the artistes. So, I think the value of the National Awards remains. The decision is taken by the jury and not the President and Mrs Irani. So, in one way, it’s not important as to who is giving the award.” The young actor pointed at how noted filmmaker Sekhar Kapoor was a part of the jury this year. “A fantastic team of critics has seen these films, our films and decided on the awardees. The value of National Awards lies there. After five years from now, people will remember the National Awards. It won’t be remembered by who is handing them over,” Riddhi said.
 
 Ganguly, along with his producer Sani Ghosh Roy, makeup artist Ram Rajak and costume designer Gobindo Mondol, locked himself in the Delhi hotel and watched the National Awards ceremony on television. But once Riddhi entered the hotel with his trophy, he rushed to greet Ganguly in the lobby. “Riddhi touched his feet and Kaushik immediately embraced him. This moment wouldn’t have happened had Riddhi not gone to accept the award,” Sen said.
 
 Ganguly was thrilled with Riddhi’s trophy. On his own absence from the ceremony, he said, “I feel extremely humiliated that the President couldn’t even spare two hours for us. If the protocol of the President’s office is so important, the protocol for National Award should be equally important. I had suggested that we go to the ceremony, accept the award and leave the theatre without waiting for the photo opportunity with the President. Unfortunately, the majority recipients from the South didn’t agree.” Meanwhile, some have wondered if the absence can mean an insult to the jury’s decisions. “Mayurakshi” director Atanu Ghosh, whose film bagged the Best Bengali Feature Film, doesn’t agree. “Nowhere are we insulting the jury’s decision. We have all accepted the awards. We were deliberately absent because the promise made to us was not honoured. All the invitations and advertisements had mentioned that the award will be given by the President. Suddenly, that decision changed and it hurt my self-respect,” said Ghosh. 
 
 However, “Mayurakshi” producer Firdausul Hasan who accepted the award from Smriti Irani. “I registered my protest but I didn’t want to boycott the event because that sends a wrong signal. I would have felt good had I got it from the President. But I can’t disrespect the National Awards by being absent. Atanu’s decision not to go is his personal choice,” Hasan said.
 
 A sad Prosenjit Chatterjee, who starred in “Mayurakshi”, said, “It’s an important award and will remain an important one. But it’s not a political award. People from even the small industries sometimes sale their properties to make an award-winning film. They come to receive the award from the President of India.”
 
 Will this alleged discrimination also diminish the importance of the awards? According to Soumitra Chatterjee, who starred in “Mayurakshi”, “The importance of the National Awards has diminished long back.” But Chatterjee added that if an award is supposed to be given by the President of India, it is only fair that the practice is followed unless there is some extreme situation. “I can understand why the recipients have felt discriminated and decided to be absent,” Chatterjee added.
 
 A jury member shocked with the decision said, “The National Awards is called the President’s award. If he can’t give away the awards to everyone, it sets a bad precedence. This will diminish the importance of the awards, especially at a time when art and culture is under attack from various quarters.”
 
 
