CHENNAI: Accolades poured in from various quarters a day after the centre conferred Padma awards to six persons from Tamil Nadu. Chief minister  , deputy CM O Panneerselvam, DMK working president M K   and a host of other party leaders greeted veteran music director Ilaiyaraaja, who was conferred the prestigious Padma Vibhushan and the others Padma Bhushan and   awards. 

 “Ilaiyaraaja has scored music for films in various languages including Tamil, Hindi and Kannada and had expertise in folk, Carnatic and western forms of music,” said Palaniswami in an official press release. The chief minister “proudly” extended his hearty greetings (to Ilayaraja) for receiving Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second highest (civilian) award. 
 
 Palaniswami also greeted former state archaeology department director  , who was awarded Padma Bhushan, and hailed his work in the field of archaeology. He also lauded other Padma awardees-V Nanammal (Yoga), Vijayalakshmi Navaneethakrishnan (folk song exponent), Rajagopalan Vasudevan (who patented a technology for laying roads from plastic waste) and wildlife conservationist Romulus Whitaker. Panneerselvam too congratulated all the Padma awardees.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition party leaders as well as film actors, directors and others congratulated Ilaiyaraaja. “I congratulate Ilaiyaraaja who is set to get Padma Vibhushan award. Similarly I congratulate other persons who have been selected to get Padma awards from Tamil Nadu,” Stalin tweeted. He said it was a proud moment for Tamil Nadu that they have been selected for the awards.
 
 Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan said this year 14 women have been conferred the Padma awards. “I congratulate all those who have been selected to get the awards, especially six persons from Tamil Nadu,” said Radhakrishnan.
 
 Former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss in a statement praised all the six as well as former cricket captain M S Dhoni, who have been selected for the Padma awards. MDMK chief Vaiko congratulated Ilaiyaraaja as well as other awarders. Actors Sarathkumar, Sivakumar and several others have praised music director as well as others for having been selected for the Padma awards. 
 
