Ludhiana: Government school teachers have united against the suspension and transfer of the head teacher and class teacher of Government Elementary School, Baba Sri Chand Colony, Mundiya Kalan by the local education department, after a video capturing two school students lifting heavy garbage bins went viral on January 5. As part of a silent agitation, many schools heads have decided to stop cleaning the school premises from Monday as none of the government primary schools in the state have safai karamcharis. They plan to continue the agitation till the teachers are reinstated. A few teachers’ associations have challenged action taken against the teachers and complained to secretary, (education) Krishan Kumar on Sunday.

 Head teacher Charanjit Kaur was suspended and class teacher Savita was transferred on Friday after the video went viral on social media. The video, shot by an area resident, shows the students saying teachers had asked them to dump garbage in a plot about one kilometre away from the school. In reaction to the video, district education officer (Elementary) Jaspreet Kaur — taking harsh and immediate action — suspended the head teacher and transferred the class teacher to Macchiwara.
 
 This did not go down well with teachers’ associations, residents and parents. By late evening, teachers started venting their anger on social media, following which DEO Jaspreet Kaur and deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh reached the school on Saturday for an inquiry. Meanwhile, about 50 parents and residents also reached the school and submitted in writing that they did not want action against the teachers.
 
 On Sunday, several teachers and teachers’ associations across the state started sending applications to the education secretary, informing him that schools would boycott the cleaning process. A teacher of Government Primary School, Dhandari Kalan, wrote in his letter, (a copy of which is with TOI): “In the absence of posts of ‘safai karamcharis’ in government primary schools, teachers in our school pay Rs 2,500 every month to a private ‘safai karamchari’ to clean the school. However, in the view of the suspension and transfer of two teachers — which is incorrect — we will boycott the cleaning of schools until the teachers are reinstated.” An RTI filed by a teacher, Ravi Kumar of Sultanpur Lodhi, asked for the specific rule under which the teachers had been suspended and transferred and whether they were issued a show cause notice or given a chance to explain.
 
 A Ludhiana-based teacher, Satvir Singh Rohani from Payal tehsil, also filed an RTI, asking if the government had provided ‘safai karamcharis’ in government primary schools and if so, how many posts were filled and if not, what facility had been provided to school authorities for cleaning. Further, Elementary Teachers’ Union (Sekhon), wrote to Krishan Kumar and education minister Arun Chaudhary, questioning the basis for stern action against the teachers. The union also demanded suspension of Jaspreet Kaur and deputy district education officer (Elementary) Kuldeep Singh.
 
 Union president Sukhdhir Singh Sekhon said: “The Education department has taken a hasty decision by suspending and transferring both teachers. We face so much fund crunch while running schools, and also pay electricity bills and other bills from our own pocket. Moreover, when PM Modi launched the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’, all children came on the roads to support the cause. Special committees were formed in schools to run the cleaning activities, then how are teachers wrong here? We demand the suspension of DEO and deputy DEO. Moreover, we will boycott cleaning the school campus until the suspended and transferred teachers are reinstated.” 
 
  Teacher seeks permission to clean school
 
 Sukhraj Singh, the head teacher of Government Primary School, Momnabad, Sangrur district — in his letter to the education secretary — sought permission to clean the school campus in the first one hour of the school. He said since schools did not have safai karamcharis, the school campus remained dirty, leaving children prone to diseases. “Therefore, I want permission to clean my school myself every day during school hours from 9am to 10am,” he stated.
 
 
