NAGPUR: More irregularities in the recruitment of 17 employees by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) in 1997 have come to fore.

 The files regarding details of the irregularities have gone missing, the NMC said in a   reply to former corporator Raman Paigwar. Consequently, the state information commissioner (Nagpur) Dilip Dharurkar has directed the civic body to file an FIR with the police. 
 
 Paigwar had sought information under the Right To Information (RTI) Act about the file of criminal prosecution against 18 members of selection panel based on the inquiry committee report. He also sought to know why only one member of then recruitment committee chairman — Kishore Dorle — was prosecuted when other members of the committee were also found guilty. 
 
 The civic administration failed to furnish details sought by Paigwar, and instead, informed him that the files have gone missing. He then approached Dharurkar. On February 21, Dharurkar had directed NMC to either provide information sought by Paigwar or file an FIR.
 
 “The Adtani inquiry report prepared in 2002 was available,” Paigwar said, and questioned how the action proposed on the findings of the inquiry report against the 18 selection committee members was not taken.
 
 So far, NMC has made no efforts to either trace the missing files or file a police complaint, admitted a senior civic official. 
 
 Instead, during the April 20 general body meeting, the BJP-ruled NMC okayed the proposal to reinstate 17 employees — Subhash Ghate, Ramesh Bawankar, Ashok Deogade, Arun Khopde, Vijay Hatwar, Yusuf Yaqub, Deepak Potphode, Prakash Barde, Ganpat Barahate, Gangadhar Bhiwgade, Durga Tahliyani, Shalu Khopde, Ratnakar Dhote, Jeevak Shamkule, Vinayak Pendke, Suresh Barwe and Vinod Sonone (who passed away in 2015).
 
 These employees were earlier dismissed for being appointed despite irregularities in recruitment process by the high court.
 
 The inquiry conducted by then additional municipal commissioner MM Adtani pointed out that then corporators Krishna Khopde and Nana Shamkule (both are now members of legislative assembly) had prima facie selected and appointed their relatives. 
 
 It also found that around six officers (then acting deputy municipal commissioner RZ Siddiqui, municipal secretary  , then assistant superintendent PN Ambhore, acting assistant superintendent HD Londhe, acting assistant superintendent AA Pipurde and acting superintendent G M Tembhekar) had alleged involvement in irregularities and dereliction of duty.
 
 “But no stern action was initiated against the officials involved in the recruitment scam,” said Paigwar. 
 
 In his report, Adtani had pointed out that it was the duty of these six senior NMC officials to point out irregularities to the commissioner. He also listed other irregularities such as no signatures of selection committee members on the list of the recruited candidatesm barring the signature of then mayor Kishore Dorle. “But they did not do so,” the report stated. 
 
 The former mayor was also booked under section 397 of IPC and hearing against him was underway in the district court. The next hearing is scheduled on May 8.
 
 
