KOLKATA: After drones, trained elephants and tranquilizing teams, a “tracking and sniffing expert” is on way to locate the elusive   the stripes of which were photographed in a camera trap in once-Red zone   on March 2.

 Ikna, a 2-year-old German Shepherd and a proud member of the West Bengal forest department’s canine squad, will reach Lalgarh by Wednesday. A graduate from  , BSF Academy in Gwalior’s Tekanpur, and praised for her “ability to sniff out” poachers, this will be Ikna’s first “big” assignment.
 
  
 Confirming the development on Tuesday, state chief wildlife warden   said: “We want to use her ability to sniff out objects. We hope she will be able track the big cat.” The order, according to him, was issued on Sunday and Ikna will reach Lalgarh by Wednesday.
 
 In March 2016, a sniffer dog, also a German Shepherd, from Karnataka’s   was brought to Gudalur forest division in Tamil Nadu to trace a “man-eating” tiger. It reportedly located the hideout within an hour.
 
 So, what is Ikna doing in the Sunderbans now? “She is still undergoing training. We are also using her for area domination, so that villagers get to know that the department has a sniffer dog that has added more teeth to their conservation efforts,” said Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director Nilanjan Mullick.
 
 Meanwhile, after the rainfall in the last few days that washed away pugmarks in the region, fresh tiger footprints were found in the forests of Lalgarh and Madhupur on Tuesday morning.
 
 The big cat has remained elusive since March 2, the day it was first photographed in a camera trap station at Lalgarh. All efforts, including placing of trap cages with baits inside, deployment of tranquilizing teams and drones and use of trained elephants, have failed to track and trap the tiger. The tiger even gave foresters the slip a few weeks ago when tranquilizing experts had it within striking distance.
 
 With panchayat elections slated in the region on May 1, the foresters don’t want to leave any stone unturned. If the tiger is trapped, it will be taken to the Sunderbans’ Jharkhali rescue centre. Later, the state will take a call on its release in consultation with the Centre.
 
 Ikna, along with Belgian Malinois Karim and another German Shepherd, Limpsy, graduated from National Training Centre for Dogs last December. They have been trained in tracking, guarding and sniffing. They can also detect human smells well. While Karim was sent to North Bengal’s Buxa, Limpsy was posted in Mahananda in the same region.
 
 Chief conservator of forests (western circle) Shakti Shankar Dey said the sniffer dog from the Sunderbans would reach Lalgarh soon. 
 
 
