PUNE: Traffic constable   has shed three kilos in just a month. “Cycling every day has increased my stamina and I can work more efficiently throughout the day,” his colleague   said. 

 There are others at the Sangvi traffic division who have also lost weight and their blood pressure is under control. 
 
 All of them owe their health to the bicycle patrolling initiated by their team leader inspector Kishore   to act against traffic offenders in their jurisdiction. After the patrolling rolled out, habitual offenders have stopped parking on the footpaths, near bus stands and travelling on the wrong side. 
 
 After watching the police cycle brigade enforce basic traffic rules, a few local groups and individuals have donated bicycles. Now, all 52 police personnel in this traffic division have a bicycle each.
 
 Mhaswade told TOI that the bicycle patrol was police commissioner Rashmi Shukla’s idea. She told police officers to start such patrolling in their jurisdictions. “I started with two traffic wardens last November. The others joined me,” he added.
 
 The cycling is not compulsory. “There are 11 women constables in my team. All of them, including a pregnant constable, patrol on bicycles. Constables are chosen for patrolling on rotation,” Mhaswade said.
 
 Twice A Day 
 
 The teams start patrolling around 8.30am and again at 5pm for an hour, each time. “We cover the big chowks and cycle over 14km daily,” Mhaswade said. The teams take different routes. “During the rides, we spot illegal parking on the footpaths, near bus stands and wrong side driving. We act against at least 10 offenders every day. When we patrol, people ensure that they follow traffic rules diligently,” Mhaswade said, adding that chain snatching and street robberies are declining in Sangvi because of their presence.
 
 People’s participation 
 
 The owner of a Sangvi-based bicycle shop donated a cycle. “Later, local groups said they wanted to contribute to our initiative. I requested for bicycles for my team. People make the payments for the bicycle and we collect them later from the Sangvi shop,” Mhaswade said. 
 
 Every night, the cycle shop owner sends his mechanic to the traffic division who checks all 52 bicycles and keeps them ready for the next day’s rides.
 
 Mahesh Badgujar, a senior researcher in a private company, joins the patrolling team on his bicycle every Saturday. “All the police constables are around 40 years of age and can ride the cycle efficiently to cover 14 km at ease,” Badgujar said. More from his cycling group will join the police team. “We will procure helmets for the team,” he added.
 
 
