HYDERABAD: Closed circuit television (CCTV) camera footage has helped police solve a series of chain-snatching offences which occurred in and around LB Nagar with the arrest of four students-turnedchain snatchers. They also recovered 54 tola   worth Rs 17 lakh from their possession.

  police on Monday arrested the quartet — Chavan  , 21, K Pavan Kumar, 20, both from   in LB Nagar, Md Owais Ahmed, 19, from   and M Rohit Kumar, 20, from Khammam — and solved 18 snatching offences.
 
 “The four, who are friends, were addicted to ganja, alcohol and cigarettes,” Rachakonda commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat said at a press conference. Due to the vices, they failed in exams repeatedly and decided to commit snatching offences for easy money.
 
 Suraj was detained in B Tech first year for not clearing backlogs when he was a student of  , while Pavan, who studied at Gurunanak Engineering College, and Rohit Kumar were detained in B Tech III year for too many backlogs and Md Owais Ahmed could not clear polytechnic. Suraj and Pavan were childhood friends and natives of Bhupalapalli.
 
 In the past eight months, they had committed 18 snatching offences in LB Nagar, Chaitanyapuri, Saroornagar, Meerpet and Vanasthalipuram police station limits. The four used to borrow two-wheelers of their friends to commit offences and mostly target elderly women walking alone in the early hours.
 
 
 
 
 Since the four had no criminal record, it was tough for police to identify them, but they got a crucial clue in the form of a CCTV footage 10 days ago. Around 7am on December 30, they had snatched a 3.5-tola gold chain of a woman at Sai Nagar colony near Nagole. When cops analysed CCTV camera footages of nearby areas, police noticed the offenders were on a scooter and they also got a blurred image of its registration number.
 
 By using permutations and combinations of the vehicle registration number, police identified that the culprits had used a Maestro scooter. Subsequent investigations revealed that the offenders were staying with their friends at Mansoorabad and used their two-wheelers. Police questioned their friends and then took the four students into custody. Based on their confession, police recovered the stolen property. “They often sold the stolen gold chains to their friends for a low price. They had a lavish party on New Year’s Eve with the stolen booty,” police said. The four were produced in court, which sent them to judicial remand.
 
