LONDON: They’re some of Britain’s most-loved dishes, but it seems that meals, including fish and chips and chicken  , could be at risk as a result of  .

 A new report by WWF has found that many favourites may taste different, need substitute ingredients and cost more, as climate change could threaten the supply of the key ingredient.
 
 The report revealed that by 2050 chicken tikka masala could be transformed, as chickens will be fed on alternative feeds such as insects and algae.
 
 Chickens will need to be fed on alternatives to soy if production is hit by higher temperatures and changes to rainfall. Other key ingredients of a tikka masala, such as rice, tomatoes and onions could all suffer price hikes and shortages as a result of fluctuating weather.
 
 Rice prices are also expected to rise by a third, while we could see onion shortages caused by an increase in diseases.
 
 Meanwhile, traditional cod — long the staple in fish and chips — could be replaced by anchovies, as warmer oceans cause smaller species to displace cod populations.
 
 Cheese production is also likely to be affected due to heat stress on dairy herds and resulting impact on milk production, meaning cheese ploughman’s sandwiches could be a thing of the past.
 
 The report also calculated the environmental costs of these dishes today. The cheese ploughman’s was found to create 2.6kg carbon dioxide in greenhouse gas emissions to produce — the equivalent of charging a smartphone 316 times, boiling a kettle 113 times or keeping an LED lightbulb switched on for 28 days.
 
 Gareth  , Head of Energy and Climate at WWF commented: "The threat to these classic dishes just shows that climate change could impact every aspect of our lives in future if we don’t act now.
 
 "That’s why this Earth Hour we want people to eat more sustainably. That doesn’t necessarily mean going vegan or vegetarian — it means each of us cutting back on the amount of fish, meat and dairy we eat. "If each of us takes a small action, together we can combat climate change and future-proof our best-loved dishes."
 
