MUMBAI: Even as the Bombay high court has given its nod to demolish the British-era Carnac Bunder Bridge at Masjid Bunder in South Mumbai, authorities said the process to bring it down will begin only after the monsoons.

 Civic officials said now that they have received a green signal from the court, demolition can be taken up immediately, but with the monsoon barely a month away, they do not want pedestrians to be inconvenienced. The Carnac Bridge, which passes over the railway line, has been declared unsafe. While the Railways will demolish the bridge, BMC will carry out its reconstruction. The BMC has paid the Central Railway Rs 2.6 crore to demolish the Carnac Bunder and Hancock bridges.
 
 BMC had floated tenders for construction of a new bridge between CST and Masjid Bunder stations in November 2016.
 
 S O Kori, BMC chief engineer, bridges department, said, “The contractor for reconstruction of the new bridge has been appointed, but he would not be able to take up work during the monsoon and, therefore, demolishing it now would mean pedestrians could be highly inconvenienced during the rains. We will soon sit with railway officials and chalk out the further plan.”
 
 On April 24, Bombay high court had paved the way for demolition of the dilapidated Carnac Bunder Bridge. A division bench of justices N H Patil and G S Kulkarni disposed of a petition seeking to stop demolition of the structure. The petition claimed there was no alternative bridge to cross from west to east near Masjid Bunder Railway Station.
 
 Meanwhile, BMC officials said they were planning to keep a portion of the bridge intact if possible. “When the Hancock Bridge was demolished, citizens said they were greatly troubled, Hence, we are looking at whether a portion of the Carnac Bunder Bridge can be retained even as reconstruction of a new steel bridge begins,” said an official.
 
 Another reason BMC is not keen on immediate demolition is because reconstruction on another British-era bridge, Hancock Bridge, demolished in early 2016, is yet to begin. “While two technical surveys have been completed, work on ground is yet to start. Once it begins, we will be confident to raze another bridge,” said an official.
 
 
