UNNAO: The 17-year-old Unnao rape survivor said on Friday that after Kuldeep Singh Sengar allegedly raped her on June 4, 2017, she stayed in Delhi along with her father out of fear.

 In an interview to TOI, the minor spoke at length about the horror tales in   where she spent her childhood. She recounted how MLA’s brother  , who has been arrested now, used to torment those who crossed his path.
 
 “
  (He would torment people the way he killed my father. He puts on his boots and uses burning bicycle tyres to torture his victims),” she said, sitting in a dimly lit room of an Unnao hotel. She fainted a couple of times due to trauma during the interview.
 
 The survivor said Atul’s terror “kept us away from our own home”. “My father and I stayed in Delhi because of this fear after what he (Sengar) did to me on June 4 last year. He decided to come to Makhi because my five-year-old brother who stayed here wanted to have a bicycle. When he was thrashed on April 3 this year, the MLA told my uncle, ‘
  (I have punished him for publicly speaking out against me)’,”she added. The survivor said she made these disclosures before the   team which visited the family at the hotel and recorded her statements on Friday. She and her sister broke down as they spoke of the “guilt in roping in our father”, who had come to Unnao from Delhi to “stave off police challenge” against the registering of FIR against Sengar. She confirmed that she told CBI that she had taken a train from Delhi to Lucknow on August 16 to meet UP chief minister   and top police officers in Unnao and elsewhere with a rape complaint.
 
 
 
 
 “Ever since the cops recovered me from Auraiya where I was being sold off for Rs 60,000, I explained my helplessness against the MLA to all top officers. They were all too afraid. I narrated the entire incident in a written statement to the CM who said that my case will be heard in five days,” the girl said.
 
 The minor and her sister expressed joy over seeing CBI sleuths at the hotel room even as they rued their inability to participate in their father’s last rites. “The CBI men told us: Tumhare saath insaaf hoga (You will get justice). They tapped my shoulder and put their hand on my head and were very kind as they took my statements. Woh bole sach ki jeet hogi (They said truth will triumph),” the girl added.
 
 The survivor is under constant medical surveillance and is being given medicines for low blood pressure and sugar. The district administration has provided the family two rooms in the hotel, one for the female members, including the survivor, and the other for the male members.
 
 The floor on which the rooms are located reeks of countrymade liquor. At least 50 cops, including six women constables, are deployed for their security. “We don’t want to complain about the way we are being treated. We get some rice and dal, sometimes we don’t get any food at all. But our priority is to see him (Sengar) behind the bars,” said the girl’s elder sister.
 
 
