NEW DELHI: As the fourth edition of the   heads towards its climax, former India footballer   expects a thrilling finish. Bhutia feels the mathematical possibility of almost all teams being able to make it to the last-four has spiced up the contest with a consistent   under the cosh after losing to table-toppers Bengaluru FC.

 
 "The Hero   is heading to a nail-biting finish as it’s now all about that rat race as to who can sneak into the last four. With Bengaluru FC having already qualified, mathematically except for Atletico de Kolkata, North east United FC, Delhi Dynamos FC, all other teams have a chance, though some sit a bit more relaxed than the others," Bhutia wrote in his column for TOI.
 
 "Looking back, FC Goa may just be cursing themselves as they have gone winless in their last five matches. At the midway stage they looked the favourites to top the table, but it's a different story now. Maybe, expectations and pressure got to them and with some crucial matches lined up, they need to play it match by match."
 
  boast of one of the strongest teams on paper but have failed to translate that onto the field. Currently, they are placed fifth on the points table with 25 points and their chances of qualification rest not only on their own performances but also on the results of other teams as well.
 
 "Personally I feel Ian Hume's injury cost Kerala Blasters a semi-final spot. Hume was in a scoring spree, creating havoc with his touches, getting back to rhythm and bringing Blasters to rhythm as well. But with him sitting out, Blasters lost the plot upfront, and overall. An away win in Bengaluru isn't enough for them as they have to then pray for all other teams to do badly which is asking for a bit too much," Bhutia highlighted.
 
 Bhutia credited Mumbai FC's Lucian Goain against NorthEast United FC for bringing them back in the race. However, Mumbai would need a win in their next match or it will be curtains for them.
 
 "Perhaps, the most significant match-winner came from Mumbai City FC’s Lucian Goain against NEUFC. That brought them back in the race and their next match against DDFC is a kind of do or die. Unless they win it, their last one against Chennaiyin FC may just turn out to be an inconsequential one. DDFC, off late, have turned into party spoilers and such teams are always dangerous," he said.
 
 "Jamshedpur FC, as I had mentioned prior, are a quiet team and Steve Coppell a quieter coach who knows how to deliver results. They have two very difficult matches ahead, one against BFC and the next one against FC Goa, which I feel will decide the final spot for the semi-finals. The situation is nothing less than a thriller and as a spectator, I am enjoying every bit. No complaints."
 
