MUMBAI: The government’s recent move to regulate private coaching centres through an act has once again brought to the fore a long-standing debate on the coaching institute sector. While some say the industry is booming as there is a demand, others raise concern over the stress rigorous coaching puts a student through. A discussion was held on Saturday at YB Chavan Centre as part of Shikshan Katta, an education forum.

 The government had set up an expert panel to draft rules and regulations for more than 50,000 coaching centres in the state. However, these centres said the draft act looks to control class strength, fees, admission rules and requires them to meet strict infrastructure norms. “We aren’t against regulations for the industry but it must be done in a way that it doesn’t hurt everyone... The state must understand that classes exist as there is a need for it,” said Dileep Mehendale, a class owner. The   has sent a list of objections to the state.
 
 Arguing the need for coaching institutes, Jagdish Walawalkar, a coaching class owner and member of the state panel that drafted the act said, “There are students in   schools who aren’t taught well, in night schools where teachers weren’t appointed until December and aided schools where teacher positions are vacant. Over 5 lakh students are fighting for 5,000 medical seats, they need additional coaching. People must be given a choice between a school and classes.”
 
 However, principals feel coaching classes have begun interfering in a school’s schedule.  , principal, Shivaji Chattrapati Vidyalaya, Dharavi said, “Even when we are willing, parents request us to not hold extra classes for students because the schedule doesn’t match that of the coaching centres.”
 
 Principals also argue that it adds to students’ stress levels.  , principal, Ramseth Thakur Public School, Kharghar said, “Students who prioritise coaching and opt for integrated programmes to prepare for entrance exams also have a pressure about it.”
 
 Large coaching centres offer integrated programmes in tie-up with junior colleges where students attend only classes, not college. “The state doesn’t have the machinery to regulate schools, let alone coaching centres... Admission process and exam system are at fault,” said  , former president of MCOA.
 
