CHENNAI: Gagged by the state government from imposing harsh penalties on   defaulters,   is finding it difficult to recover over Rs 220 crore in arrears it is owed.

 The city corporation, whose primary source of income is property tax paid by residents and commercial establishments, has in the last three years collected in excess of Rs 500 crore from the more than 11 lakh assessees. This fiscal, it expects to collect nearly Rs 750 crore for the first time ever.
 
 
  
  
 With tax rationalisation process on, the civic body can collect more than Rs 1,000 crore in property tax in coming years. But, recovering dues from defaulters becomes tricky as the state government expects the civic body to handle these cases with kid gloves.
 
 “We had proposed cutting electricity and water connections to force defaulters to pay. But the government vetoed the proposal. The reasoning was why strip an essential utility like power especially if the consumer had paid the tariff to TNEB,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 Recently, the corporation issued notice to actor-couple Ramki and Nirosha for defaulting on property tax for the last 13 years. Officials told TOI they were preparing a defaulters’ list. 
 
 “Several long term defaulters are big name businesses in the city,” said an official.
 
 Another reason holding up payment of dues is dispute. Sources say at least Rs 100 crore is tied up in cases before the   ( ) and other civil courts.
 
 “At least 40-50 cases are pending before TAT alone,” said a senior official. Residents approaching civil courts instead of TAT complicates affairs. 
 
 “If a dispute is to be heard by TAT, at least 50% of the dues ought to be paid before the case is taken up for hearing. This is not the case in civil courts where if a stay is obtained, the dues can go uncollected for years,” said the official.
 
 Sources say the civic body may yet approach the Madras high court seeking directions to prevent civil courts from taking up tax disputes and re-direct such petitions to TAT.
 
 
