CHAMRAJNAGAR: After a long struggle of 25 years, there is a twinkle in eyes of ebullient Bahujan Samaj Party’s Kollegala (BSP) candidate N Mahesh, who has steadfastly guarded the UP-based pro-Dalit outfit ’s flock in Karnataka.

 A string of defeats notwithstanding, Mahesh has a reason to cheer following his party’s alliance with regional player Janta Dal (Secular). He is among 18 candidates fielded by the BSP that strategically not only includes 11Dalits, but also four Lingayats, a Maratha, Kuruba (OBC) and a Muslim each in alliance with former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his family. BSP had last won in Karnatka in 1994 from Bidar. Mahesh, a post graduate in economics from Bangalore University, who lost each time from this seat in the past 25 years, laughs as he says he has only raised his position from fourth, third and second runner-up in the past three state assembly polls.
 
 ‘My turn to change caste combination'
 
 He quickly turns serious as he hints at the possibility of growing alternative to the Congress, and the one that may include TRS, TMC, SP, RLD and NCP. He is overjoyed for two reasons. One that Narendra Modi became first PM here to visit both Chamrajnagar and Kollegala, and even begin his Karnataka poll campaign from here on Tuesday. Congress president Rahul Gandhi and BJP party president Amit Shah too had held long road shows in last three weeks.
 
 “Now is my turn to change the caste combination. The reverse counting of my own performance shows my standing has increased. Both Congress and BJP are fearing the coming together of Dalits and OBCs. Which is why everyone, from Modi to Rahul and Amit Shah, has broken traditions to visit these seats,” said Mahesh.
 
 Records from previous elections reveal that JDS in 2013 ended up as runner-up on at least 14 seats where their loss margin was below 500 votes and 24 seats where loss margin was between 5000-10000 votes. BSP had got more than 14,000 votes in as many as 17 seats, cutting into JDS vote share.
 
 JDS too believes that Congress’s inability to implement Justice Sadashiva Comission report on internal reservation for Dalit sub-category including Holiyas, Manigas and others in Karnataka as well as failure to act upon the pending promotional SC/ST quotas has earned the ire of Dalits. “Our alliance with Mayawati ji is beyond the vans carrying joint photographs of our leaders” said JDS leader K Annadani, who is contesting from Malavalli.
 
 
