MUMBAI: The Maharashtra   (ATS), which initially probed the  , allegedly involving Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, Lt Col Prasad Purohit and others, will not challenge a special National Investigation Agency ( ) court’s order discharging three accused, its chief told TOI. In the  , the ATS had challenged the discharge of eight arrested Muslim youths.

 Both cases were initially probed by the ATS, before they were taken over by the NIA.
 
 The NIA court had on December 27, 2017, framed charges against seven accused and discharged three—Shamlal Sahu (51), Shivnarayan Kalsangra (45) and Pravin Takalki alias Mutalik (34). Sahu and Kalsangra were the first to be arrested in 2008 by ATS. Kalsangra’s brother, Ramchandra, is on the NIA’s wanted accused list. Ramchandra had allegedly parked an RDX bomb-fitted bike in Malegaon on September 29, 2008 that exploded, killing six and injuring over a hundred.
 
 
  
  
 
 ATS chief Autlchandra Kulkarni told TOI: “No notice from court to ATS. Besides, we have no locus standi as NIA is the investigating agency”. Kulkarni said that in the 2006 serial blasts case, the ATS was made a party, but “in the 2008 case nobody has made us party”.
 
 Pointing to the ATS’s move in the 2006 blasts case, a senior advocate said, “The ATS challenged the discharge of the accused before the high court. This was also done despite the NIA handling the case then.” The advocate said the ATS did not even take a stand in 2016 when NIA, while filing its chargesheet in the 2008 case, alleged that ATS had fabricated evidence against some accused. “The ATS should have come forward then.”
 
 On September 8, 2006, three bombs, planted on cycles, exploded at a cemetery and a fourth went off at Mushawerat chowk, killing 31 and injuring 312 others. On April 26, 2016, a special court discharged Noorul Huda, Raees Ahmed, Salman Farsi, Farogh Magdumi, Shaikh Mohammed Ali, Asif Khan, Mohammed Zahid and Abrar Ahmed in the case. Another youth died while the case was pending before the trial court.
 
 In May 2016 , J P Patil, undersecretary to the state government, had written wrote to several authorities, including public prosecutors and ATS, seeking appeal challenging the order of the special judge (under MCOC Act, and NIA Act) discharging eight Muslim men. This happened after the special public prosecutor wrote to the law and judiciary department requesting that the order be challenged. The appeal is pending in the high court.
 
 (Inputs by Rebecca Samervel)
 
 
