SANGRUR: A panel of   ( ) on Saturday visited Gurdwara Singh Sabha,   in Sangrur to look into its design after it was alleged to be a replica of the Darbar Sahib ( ). The committee members visited the site on Saturday to review the promised changes made in the design. 

 A five-member panel was constituted by the SGPC to look into the matter in January after   (UAD) leader Purshotam Singh Phaguwala went on hunger strike over the issue. The SGPC had assured him to implement the 2009 edict of Akal Takht through which it had ordered the management of the Mastuana Sahib gurdwara to change its structure.
 
 Barring member of the panel Malkeet Singh, four members of the panel, including SGPC executive member Hardev Singh Rogla, Bhupinder Singh Bhalwan, Karnail Singh Panjoli, and manager of Gurdwara Nankiana Sahib Ranjit Singh visited the Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Mastuana Sahib. They claimed that the gurdwara management had promised to review the changes in its structure but failed to do so even after many years.
 
 The committee members also found that no changes were done in the structure that was earlier named as Darbar Sahib. They also found that it is still a replica of the Golden Temple. It was also found that the Masutana Sahib gurdwara management has got constructed a temporary lawn and a wall close to 'Har ki Pauri' as part of the changes. It found that the name of the gurdwara was not changed from 'Darbar Sahib' to Gurdwara Singh Sabha.
 
 The members claimed that a reservoir and a bridge over it were given a similar look like that of the Golden Temple. "The 'Har ki Pauri' and some construction work have been given the Golden Temple look and these had not been changed. Only a wall near the 'Har Ki Pauri' was temporarily built while there were no changes made in the reservoir. "The 'Har Ki Pauri' should have been permanently closed. The gurdwara is a replica of the Golden Temple, which is the most revered shrine of the Sikh community. It is hurting the Sikh sentiments from over a decade. In 2009, the management of the Mastuana Sahib gurdwara decided to follow the Akal Takht edict to change its entire look. However, nothing has been changed," said SGPC panel member Bhupinder Singh Bhalwan.
 
 He added that a report in this regard would be submitted to the SGPC during the executive committee meeting scheduled for February 16 in Patiala.
 
 However, member of management of Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Mastuana Sahib, Jaswant Singh said, "We have already incorporated the changes in the structural design of the gurdwara. It does not look like a replica of the Golden Temple in any way."
 
 
