NEW DELHI: The capital witnessed another strong   in the early hours of Wednesday. The   saw several trees uprooted, damage to electricity poles and even flight disruptions during its brief spell as   touched 106km/hr at Palam.

 
 Officials at the airport said that while this was the season’s strongest squall, the impact on flights had been minimal as it occurred in the wee hours of Wednesday, resulting in three flight go-arounds and one diversion. While the Met had earlier forecast clear skies for the capital over the next four to five days, they say localised activity is likely to bring another spell of rain and thundershowers on Thursday night and Friday morning.
 
 “The change has been due to localised conditions. The temperatures have been very high and there has been high moisture in the air. With moisture-laden easterly winds likely to come this way in the next two days, we could expect another spell of thundershowers and gusty winds on the night of Thursday and Friday morning,” said a Met official.
 
 Met officials at the airport said the impact of the overnight storm was for around 2 hours. “In terms of aviation impact at the IGI airport, this was the lowest impact as compared to the storm of April 6, May 2 and May 13 when a total of 32, 12 and 78 diversions took place respectively. The maximum speeds during these storms were 84, 80 and 95 km/hr,” said an airport met official.
 
 The maximum speed at the Safdarjung observatory — taken as the base for Delhi’s   — reached 98 km/hr during the squall period, officials said. Meanwhile, Wednesday’s maximum temperature was recorded at 40.2 degrees Celsius and Palam recorded a high of 42 degrees Celsius.
 
 Traffic control received 53 calls related to falling of trees and 6 calls about fallen poles during the dust storm. Officials said 37 fallen trees have been removed and the remaining will be removed over the next 24 hours. The   control room received 21 calls of fallen trees and three calls of partially collapsed debris.
 
 Forecast for Thursday shows a maximum of 42 degrees Celsius with rain/thundershowers with strong gusty winds likely.
 
