PUNE: The state government’s water supply scheme undertaken by the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) has hit a road block in the absence of a no objection certificate from the local military authority (LMA) for laying an underground pipeline on the 800mt stretch of A-1 land (defence) from Burnett Road to the Empress Botanical Garden in Pune Cantonment.

 In 2015, MJP officials had submitted a proposal to the LMA to issue the no objection certificate. Even after 19 correspondences from the MJP for speeding up the project, there’s no official intimation from the LMA on the status about the proposal.
 
 
 The Rs 113 crore-scheme to supply potable water to over 1.69 lakh residents of fringe villages such as Manjari, Phursungi and Uruli Devachi was sanctioned in 2014. The project is still stuck.
 
 Defence Estates Officer (DEO), Pune circle, Rajendra Pawar said, “The land on which the pipeline will be laid comes the Army. The MJP’s proposal to issue the   is pending for sanction before the LMA.”
 
 The LMA, after vetting the proposal, will forward it to the   for the final decision.
 
 Major-General Prithi Singh, Sub Area Commander and president of the   and chairman of the LMA did not take calls made by TOI on the status of the proposal.
 
 MJP executive engineer N N Bhoi said,“We had applied for the NOC to the garrison engineer of the   near the Empress Garden on September 28, 2015. The proposal was forwarded to the DEO for sanction. We have made numerous correspondences with the DEO. But we have now been told that the proposal was sent to the Army’s station cell for sanction.”
 
 He added, “We have received the NOC from the irrigation department for a sump well and an overhead pump house for laying the pipeline to draw water from the baby canal on Burnett Road. We have laid a pipeline of 7.45km out of the 8.5km between Empress Garden and Tukai hill in Hadapsar.”
 
 Amol Harpale, a resident of Phursungi and member of the Pune district planning committee, said, “Though the MJP is executing the project to supply water to the fringes, the work is not picking up pace. Phursungi has been brought under the limits of   (PMC) and we want the government to authorise the civic body to implement the project as it has donated Rs 25 crore to the MJP.”
 
 Manjari resident Shailendra Belhekar said, “The MJP has started constructing an overhead tank at KK Ghule Vidyalaya and three overhead tanks at Ghule vasti. The old overhead tank constructed by the Manjari gram panchayat, which was closed for several years, will be renovated and repaired. The old pipelines will be replaced to ensure equitable distribution of water.”
 
 Santosh Bhadale, a resident of Uruli Devachi, said, “The PMC is using tankers to supply drinking water. However, we don’t have sufficient water for non-domestic purposes. This is primarly because water available for wells and bore wells cannot be used because of the seeping of leachate from the garbage depot.”
 
 Hadapsar MLA Yogesh Tilekar has distributed 25 plastic tanks with a capacity of 5,000 litre to store water. “We have to depend on water tankers and bore wells to meet the residents’ requirements.”
 
