

 
 
 
 I designed the course because I was worried about how anxious and depressed students on campus are. The idea is to teach them about the science of what makes for a good life, and then to give them tools from psychology to help them put these goals into practice. I thought the course would be popular but I didn’t expect one out of every four students at Yale to take the class.
 
 
 
 Students assess their own happiness using a survey that is available online. This lets them check their happiness before and after the class. In addition, the course has two different sets of requirements: The first set includes the usual sort of Yale course homework, such as readings and assessments. The second set is called ‘Course Rewirements’ because its goal is to “rewire” the students’ automatic habits and strategies. The rewirements are a series of activities and exercises aimed at making students happier, healthier, and more resilient. 
 
 
 
 
 Research suggests that changing our life circumstances (getting a higher salary, a bigger car, etc) won’t make us as happy as we think. The positive psychologist   estimates that only about 10% of our happiness is due to these sort of changes. A bigger factor in our happiness is our own intentional effort — putting in time to develop practices like gratitude and kind behaviours.
 
 
 
 Yes, we often think that bad life circumstances (losing money, having a break-up, failing a test, etc) will make us unhappy. But research from Harvard psychologist Dan Gilbert’s lab and others shows that these events don’t make as unhappy as we think and they don’t impact us for as long as we think.
 
 
 
 Research shows that being more mindful — taking time to be in the present moment — can increase our subjective well-being. I think the idea of being mentally calm (and not “mind-wandering” as researchers put it) can, in fact, increase happiness.
 
 
 
 Oddly enough, it may be that the opposite is true. A classic study on longevity in nuns shows that people who are happier tend to live longer. So being happy might contribute to living longer.
 
 
 
 In class, I teach that focusing on others can increase subjective well-being. I think making others happy can make you happier yourself.
 
 
 
 I think it’s made us more anxious, but happiness is still there to be found if you put in the effort.
 
 
 
 The practices that lead to increase in subjective well-being can help no matter what your income level. That said, research also shows that inequality and poverty do negatively impact happiness. So, we also need to focus on helping those in need at the same time as helping them stay happy.
 
 
 
 You can increase about 40% of your happiness through intentional effort and practices like the rewirements I described earlier.
 
 
 
 I too need to work to make sure I’m happy. I must keep up with all the positive practices to see the results.
 
