CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court acquitted two Zirakpur residents in a forgery case involving  .

 The court acquitted   and   under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471( using as genuine a forged) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The prosecution failed to prove the case which led to the acquittal of the accused.
 As per the complaint, Ajay Kumar was working as a sales executive with Axis Sales and Securities Services Limited (now, Axis Capital Ltd). The same is a duty registered company providing manpower to the bank. Ajay joined the bank on May 11, 2011.
 
 During his span, he introduced some loan applications to the bank and allegedly committed a fraud by facilitating applicants to file forged documents. On the other hand, Vijay Kumar also approached the bank as per the complainant, for availing loan for purchase of forged, fabricated documents and misleading information.
 
 It was alleged that after revelation of a fraud committed by Vishal Jaswal with the   which was reported in newspapers on November 17, 2012, the Axis Bank also conducted an internal inquiry, it transpired that Jaswal had also approached for loan through Ajay Kumar and allegedly committed fraud with Axis Bank too.
 
 On several occasions, it appeared that the two accused were working together in order to cheat the bank. On one occasion, when the bank officials were to issue PAN card in Vijay Kumar’s name at his address, it was gathered that the same- House no 99, Adarsh Enclave, Zirakpur was the address of Ajay Kumar in reality which further fortified their conspiracy.
 
 Similarly, a copy of Form 16 and salary slips issued by DELL International Services
 
 Pvt Ltd were forged and fabricated besides the account number which was projected as salary account during the tenure of Ajay Singh.
 
 A complaint was filed by deputy manager (fraud containment unit) of Axis Bank, Kuldeep Singh requesting that an FIR be registered against the two accused to the police on April 4, 2013, and in another two months, a case was registered.
 
 But during the trial the prosecution failed to prove the case and they were acquitted by the court.
 
