
 
 HYDERABAD: The death of five (unconfirmed reports say seven) alleged red sanders   in suspicious circumstances in a lake abutting the highway at   in   district on Sunday has raised more questions than officials could answer. Though the identity of the dead has not yet been established, prima facie it appeared that the victims hailed from   and were proceeding to cut down red sanders trees in the nearby   forests.
 
 This is the first major tragedy involving red sander ‘smugglers’ since April 2015 when 20 of them were gunned down by the special combing forces in the Seshachalam woods, which drew criticism from human rights activists from around the world. There have been skirmishes between the smugglers and the police a number of times in between, often leading to opening of fire in the air. In this backdrop, the sudden appearance of five bodies of suspected sanders smugglers has raised several questions, with some human rights activists suspecting it to be murder.
 
 
 Others view it as an accidental drowning while the alleged smugglers were fleeing from the police-forest joint combing party in the jungles. There is also suspicion that it was a mass suicide. However, the police are yet to gather enough clues to arrive at a conclusion on the real cause of death.
 
 Red sanders is found in the forests of Seshachalam in   district and at a few isolated places in   district and Tamil Nadu. The tree is protected by forest laws and India is duty bound to conserve this rare species under an international treaty.
 
 The topography of the area does not support the theory that the alleged smugglers drowned while attempting to escape from the police. The lake is right near the arterial highway and the forest cover is located at a considerable distance. Given the hard forest and hilly terrain life that red sanders smugglers are accustomed to, it is unlikely that they did not know swimming. There are reports that a lorry carrying about 30 red sanders coolies passed by the lake and a few of them jumped into the water fearing police ambush.
 
 The locals found axes, backpacks and torchlights along with food items indicating that the victims were proceeding to the jungles for a long stay. The police, who sent the bodies for post mortem examination, have not officially declared either about the identity of the victims or their motive. Kadapa superintendent of police A   said it was a mystery how the victims ended up in the water body.
 
 Meanwhile, after a brief lull, smuggling of red sanders returned to Seshachalam forests despite intensified combing operations round the clock. Red sanders logs command a high price in the international market and those engaged in cutting are reportedly paid over ?5,000 a day.
 
