LUDHIANA: Six days after TOI reported that villagers and NRIs were paying the salaries of private teachers at Government Senior Secondary School Hambowal Bet near   because of acute shortage of staff, an educational   which imparts education through video classes has come to the school’s rescue. 

 TV School, the channel, has offered to teach science, mathematics and English grammar through the channel. The school teachers and villagers sounded very positive. Now if school authorities agree to this proposal then students will be taught by teachers of the  . 
 
 On January 5, Ludhiana Times of India raised the issue of how villagers and NRIs were bearing the salaries of private teachers at a government school. The villagers whose children study in the school are forced to pay so that their wards do not suffer.
 
 In a statement, authorities of the TV School said reacting to the TOI report that Government Senior Secondary School Hambowal Bet near Machiwara is running with only 20% of teachers, the ‘TV School team including CEO Professor S S Aujla, Director Professor Jagmohan Singh and Channel officials visited the school with an intention to help the students. 
 
 The team found only five regular teachers out of 28 are available in the school. Important subjects like – English, Mathematics, Science do not have any teacher. With the help of villages a few untrained teachers are employed to teach students and hundreds of students are suffering because of government apathy.
 
 Professor S S Aujla said their technical team had studied the feasibility of laying the cable line to the school and it is expected to be laid within the next few days. He added that apart from free installation and subscription to the school, they can provide the school television sets as well so that students can avail of the facility.
 
 Meanwhile school authorities are happy with the offer. “After reading the TOI report, on a deputation of TV School visited our school. With not too many teachers around, students of some classes are free study through the channel. We are waiting for the service to start”, said a senior teacher of the school on condition of anonymity.
 
 
