Nagpur: Though deep in the red, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) continues to ignore the really big tax defaulters. The biggest among water tax defaulters enjoying NMC's benevolence are Empress City, some private educational institutions and government departments.

  and Industries Ltd, that constructed Empress City and Mall, has water tax dues of over Rs 37.95 crore, followed by Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Management, one of the top colleges of the city, with dues of over Rs5.02 crore. National Research Centre For Citrus Colony too has unpaid water bills of Rs 69.02 lakh.
 
 In a   reply to Abhay Kolarkar, Orange City Water, the private water operator, stated there were 1,499 entities having dues of Rs1 lakh and above.
 
 Police department too figured in the list. Police headquarters has not paid Rs40.24 lakh while the police commissioner’s office in Civil Lines has Rs19.93 lakh outstanding.  , which is disconnecting power connections of power defaulters, itself has Rs 20.10 lakh water dues. 
 
 Director of Accounts (Postal) P&T Post office has also not paid water bills and its outstanding has reached Rs 11.02 lakh while office of Accountant General Of Maharashtra—Nagpur too has an outstanding of Rs 10.45 lakh. 
 
 Even after NMC launched a disconnection drive against defaulters and snapped over 3790 domestic water connections (having collective arrears of over Rs100 crore), it is going easy on these big defaulters.
 
 Private establishments like Poonam Chambers, Gigeo Real Estates, Model Mills have not paid water bills Rs 43.06 lakh, Rs28.80 lakh and Rs 14.45 lakh respectively. OCW embarked upon massive disconnection drive that is targeting smaller defaulters. So far in 2017-18, 13036 defaulters’ homes were visited by OCW team and 3790 connections disconnected. “We recovered Rs 4.06 crore from 6562 defaulters,” stated the OCW spokersperson. 
 
 Amazingly, names of NMC's own zone offices too figure on list of defaulters. Water works committee chairman and BJP corporator   said, "A majority of government departments and educational institutions figure in the list of defaulters. Notices have been issued to them to clear dues at the earliest."
 
 He clarified many big defaulters including KSL have approached the high court against dues. He pointed out most big defaulters were paying current bills. 
 
 Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve, who has already launched a crusade against big defaulters, claimed BJP-ruled NMC was protecting them. "Even though the department issued notices to defaulting parties giving ultimatums, NMC has not initiated any action even after lapse of notice period for months together,"   claimed.
 
 
