RANCHI: The   on Sunday after he was allegedly beaten up by three boys at   under   here has brought to the fore the   in a forest a day earlier. 

 Birsa Lakra, who suffered severe injuries in the beating, later died at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). Police registered FIRs against the rape of the girls and against the killing of Birsa. The boys who beat up Birsa were identified as the minor brothers of the girls, who on Wednesday recorded their statements in a local court. The girls also underwent medical tests.
 
 Reports said the girls were raped when they had gone to meet their boyfriends on Saturday. The girls' families began looking for them they didn't return home at night. 
 
 The girls reportedly returned home on Sunday morning and told their families that their boyfriends forcibly took them to a nearby forest and raped them. On hearing this, their brothers went to Siyartoli village looking for the youths who raped them. They allegedly caught and beat up Birsa that led to tension in the area.
 
 On Wednesday, local village pramukh Ritu Rani Kujur went to Namkum police station to demand the arrest of Birsa's killers. She said the villagers were threatening to block the Ranchi-Jamshedpur highway if they were not arrested soon.
 
 Police said a minor boy, who was accompanying the girls' boyfriends, had brought sweets for all of them. When police received a complaint about the assault on Birsa, they carried out raids in different areas to catch the killers. It was during this time that police stumbled upon the girls who were all staying together at a house. The girls gave the details of Saturday's incident and told police that they were staying together for safety. 
 
 Sadar DSP and Ranchi police spokesperson Vikas Srivastava said, that the minors involved in the murder are absconding while those accused of rape were detained by police on Tuesday. " We have already sent the three to an observation home," he said. 
 
 In recent weeks, six girls, including five minors, have been raped and 16 people, including eight minors, arrested. Only one minor involved in a rape is yet to be arrested.
 
 
