HYDERABAD: A 100-metre stretch along the  , left unattended after being dug up a month ago for civic work, has come to haunt commuters — most of them IT professionals who use this road to reach the Wipro circle via Khajaguda.

 Sharing tales about their daily ordeal, commuters said how getting to work and back home has become a tedious process, courtesy this bad patch. “During peak hours, the commute time increases by almost 30 minutes. While this one lane road is already congested, the sewage overflow on it only adds to our woes,” said  , a techie who uses the road frequently.
 
  
 
 While the aggrieved residents did raise the issue with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), they claim that the civic body conveniently passed the buck onto the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB).
 
 “My colleagues even tweeted about the issue and tagged civic officials on the corresponding pictures. But no action has still been taken,” said a woman motorist.
 
 Reiterating the gravity of the situation, another IT professional   said how traversing the stretch has become a nightmare because of government apathy, coupled with other illegal practices. “The vendors here have occupied a   of the road, thus further crunching the carriageway. People buying supplies from these vendors park their vehicles on the road. So, if a bus passes through this road, all other vehicles have to wait till it crosses the entire stretch,” Muddasani said.
 
 When contacted, GHMC officials said that tenders for the work will be floated within a fortnight. “We requested the water board to hand over the road back to GHMC and they have agreed. We will float tenders within 15 to 20 days and the road will be restored,” said Hari Chandana Dasari, west zone commissioner, GHMC.
 
 Not too far away, the traffic at Kukatpally and Alwal circle (near Select Theatre) are also adversely affected with officials failing to restore the road that was dug up to lay a water pipeline.
 
 Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or were stuck in traffic for long? And do you live in an area that needs attention, please write about your experience to traffictoireaders@gmail.com and we will take it up with the authorities.
 
