THANE: Anxiety and anticipation have gripped students of   in the lake city after many students from non-state board schools have scored above 95 per cent. 

 There is also a degree of fear among teachers that SSC students may face a tough time getting a seat in junior colleges of their choice given the good performance of   and ICSE counterparts. 
 
 “In the other boards, lots of importance is given to solving worksheets and mock question papers in school which is not the case with SSC schools and that is done for each chapter in every subject. We have lots of brilliant students who can achieve higher feat, but in comparison to the other boards, lag behind. This ultimately affects their junior college admission process. Till Class VIII, students take studies very lightly. Then they are unable to cope up with the stress and academics of class X,” said a teacher from a city-based SSC school.
 
 A few anxious parents and students have even started visiting the guidance counsellor at school to seek help, some are relatively calm and hoping for the best.
 
 Rupali Joshi, resident of   1, said, “There is nervousness and excitement as the results are approaching. For me, it does not matter that my daughter is in SSC board. Ultimately, it is what she does in life that matters. Today there is so much exposure and a variety of career guidance sessions that even if one was to secure 70 per cent, it is not the end of everything.”
 
 Meanwhile, educational activists believe regular teacher training sessions coupled with innovative methods of teaching will go a long way in bringing the state board students forward to compete in this rat race.
 
 Surendra Dighe, an educational activist, said, “The other boards are considered elite compared to the state board. Their curriculum and teaching methodology are well updated and hence refreshing, unlike the SSC board. We need to change our teaching methods drastically and incorporate innovative techniques. Even teachers need to be given time-to-time training. At the same time, parents should realize that these marks are just marks. It is the knowledge gained that matters.”
 
 The other boards are considered elite compared to the state board. Their curriculum and teaching methodology are well updated and hence refreshing, unlike the SSC board. We need to change our teaching methods drastically and incorporate innovative techniques. Even teachers need to be given time-to-time training. At the same time, parents should realize that these marks are just marks. It is the knowledge gained that matters
 
 
