Tirupur: The indefinite delay in acquiring land for the proposed expansion of the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Sulur has unsettled the residents of the nearby panchayats whose lands have been earmarked for the project.  As they had been restrained from selling their lands for the past couple of years, they were afraid to make any investment to develop the properties fearing that would go in vain. Now, they want the government to either execute the land acquisition at the earliest or revoke restrictions on selling the land. To expand the 78-year-old IAF station at Sulur, around 500 acres land had been earmarked in the villages located around Kangayampalayam, which hosts the station. The project was proposed close to two decades ago.  “Land at Appanaickenpatti, Kalangal and Kadampadi panchayats in Coimbatore and Paruvai panchayat in Tirupur was proposed to be acquired for the project. Even IAF had earmarked the land at these panchayats,” said M Suresh Kumar, a farmer from Paruvai. He, however, lamented the uncertainty regarding the land acquisition. “It is not known when the government will acquire the land. And it has affected the landowners as they cannot sell their land without obtaining no objection certificate from the IAF. The government has stopped further registration of lands,” said K Sellamuthu, president, Uzhavar Uzhaipalar Katchi. In a few cases, people who paid advances to buy the land had withdrawn their plans in the last minute after they came to know about the restriction, Suresh Kumar said. “If the government is planning to acquire the land, we want it to do it immediately that too at a rate four times higher than the government’s guideline value,” he added. Recently, owners of the lands earmarked for the project had held a meeting to discuss the next plan of action at Paruvai. “We have started a WhatApp group to discuss our plight,” said R Shanmugam alias Jothi Basu of Paruvai. Pointing out that the villagers were afraid to make any investment to develop their properties because of the uncertainty regarding their land, Sellamuthu said, “We will meet the state land administration commissioner to know about the government’s status. Then, we will chart out the next course of action.”