Cleared

 Chennai: Somniloquist, connoisseur and malleable are some of the English words that will soon find equivalents in Tamil. The state Tamil culture department has embarked on a project to translate such words, besides technical terms used in the field of science and management, from English and Latin to Tamil. 
 
 The department has engaged a private portal, Sorkuvai, for the purpose and 2,000 translations have already been added to Tamil language. A database of Tamil words is also being prepared. 
 
 “There are million phrases that require translation into Tamil and even Google does not offer meaningful translations of Tamil words. We are hoping to resolve all these problems under this project,” said Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture minister K Pandiarajan. 
 
 The department is also planning a central repository of Tamil words. Prior to this project, individuals and firms tried to create a central repository of Tamil words, said the minister. “This happened within Tamil Nadu as well as in Singapore and Southeast Asia where there is a sizeable Tamil community. But none of these initiatives were completed and some even patented the Tamil equivalent words that were added. So, it was not useful for students or public,” said Pandiarajan. 
 
 Under the project, public can add Tamil translations of words in English or other languages. “The words will be accepted and added on the website only if people who want to add them include their etymology,” said the minister. 
 
 The department proposes to use officials from the translation department as well as academicians from Tamil University. “We want to bring back some of the old words which were used in Sangam Tamil. One of the words from old Tamil is ‘gethu’ which has become popular due to a film with a similar name. There are several such words which can be brought into vogue from Sangam Tamil,” said Pandiarajan. He said help will sought from Tamil history experts to suggest words from old Tamil which can be added. 
 
 Doctors, engineers and management experts, who have a flair for Tamil, will be used to translate technical words from English to Tamil. “There are several professionals, who are interested in Tamil. We are roping in such people,” said the minister. 
 
 Experts welcomed the decision of the Tamil department to add more words. “There are several school-going children as well as others, who are unable to get a proper Tamil translation for some English words. The project will be useful for them. Some effort should be made to translate English terms used in the field of information technology,” said former school education minister Thangam Tennarasu. 
 
 eom 
 
 
