MUMBAI: Justice Revati Mohite-Dere of the Bombay high court on Friday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) to confirm if the team of same four police officials had escorted   between Gujarat and Rajasthan before the alleged fake encounter on two or three occasions earlier also. 

 The court asked this after referring to a compilation of witness statements given by advocate Gautam Tiwari who represents   Shaikh, brother of  , who was also killed in an alleged fake encounter with his wife Kausar Bi in November 2005 a year earlier.
 
 The HC assked the additional solicitor general Anil Singh to inform whether there were officials common on the escort teams on several occasions. 
 
 Meanwhile on Friday, Raja Thakare, counsel for Rajasthan IPS officer Dinesh MN, concluded his arguments to oppose Rubabuddin’s challenge to a discharge order passed by a special CBI court last year. 
 
 Thakare pointed out that all of Dinesh’s actions were accounted for as his official duty as a public servant and that he had no role in selection of escort teams for Prajapati, as superintendent of police, Udaipur at the relevant time. He said that there is no prima facie evidence brought on record against him and there was a “plausible explanation for each and every circumstance which may seem suspicious" and hence no prosecution could be launched against him, as was rightly held by the CBI court on merits.
 
 The CBI case was that the four officials, who were part of Prajapati’s escort team, made up a false story about Prajapati having escaped from custody while on a train to Udaipur.
 
 Sohrabuddin’s aide, Prajapati, was allegedly killed by Gujarat and Rajashtan police officers in a ‘fake encounter’ in December 2006 after a court hearing in connection with Hamid Lala murder case in which he was an accused.
 
 Thakre submitted that rules required that a team be sent from a nearby police station when jail authorities lacked adequate number and he had sought men from such a nearby police station but that the selection of team was done by another officer.
 
 Thakare’s submissions were that Bhawar Singh HC of Reserve Police Lines was actually vested with the duty of allotting duties to policemen at Police lines. “In his statement he clearly explains the shortage of men at Lines on the day of the court hearing and so men were requisitioned from Surajpole police station as per general practice. He further says that it was him who requested for men from the police stations and since Surajpole is the nearest police station and RPL and central jail fall under Surajpole police station, men were called from the Surajpole police station. He also says that it was him who actually selected the escort party for Tulsiram Prajapati. He also doesn’t say that Hazarilal RSI instructed him to send Tulsiram Prajapati escort as per directions of (Dinesh MN) Respondent number 1.’’ Thakare pointed out that the allegation that Dinesh MN was in any way concerned with choosing the escort team for Prajapati is also falsified by an entries in the diary at Surajpole police station and Reserve police lines in the Prajapati case. The entries do not say that escort of Narayan Singh was sent on Dinesh’s instructions.
 
 
 “In any event even assuming for the sake of argument” that he directed who should be on the team, it was an “official act performed in due discharge of his official duties," said Thakare.
 
