GURUGRAM: Millennium City, which had initially missed making to the list of cities to be evaluated for liveability by the  , has now got a spot on the country’s first ever  , to be launched by the central government. The index, which was launched by the ministry in early 2018, will rank 116 cities on the basis of their liveability standards, and will be out in June this year.

 According to GMDA chief  , the first step in the process had already been completed, when required details were recently submitted to the ministry. “If we are aiming to position Gurugram as India’s foremost city for economic opportunities, we have to get in the race. Hence, we requested the Centre to include Gurugram in the list,” said Umashankar.
 
 He said the ranking will be an indicator of where Gurugram stands compared to other Indian cities, on several factors like water supply, sanitation, etc. He added while these rankings look at relative standard of liveability, GMDA is also framing its own Gurugram-specific liveability standards.
 
 The GMDA Act talks about multiple plans, such as ones for infrastructure development, mobility management and urban environment. All these will all be developed keeping liveability standards defined by the authority in mind. A paper on these liveability standards is expected to be published within a fortnight. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Centre’s rankings will help the authority evaluate its sector-wise performance, compared to other cities. “Once we have sectoral averages for a particular metric — let’s say water supply — we can calculate how far Gurugram is from the average, and accordingly invest in that direction,” said Umashankar, adding from the next financial year, the GMDA budget will be drawn around these standards.
 
 GMDA has also proposed their framework for city-specific liveability standards to the Centre, something that contributed significantly towards accepting Gurugram’s late entry into the list of cities this year. Initially, only two cities —   and Karnal — were referred for the index by   to the Centre. 
 
 As per the ministry, cities will be evaluated on factors such as IT connectivity, health, safety and security, energy supply, energy efficiency, transportation and mobility, walkability, sanitation, water supply and water management. 
 
 To keep the comparison fair, cities have been divided into four categories on the basis of population size. 
 
 As per classification, Gurugram will be categorised in the ‘large town’ category, with population between 5-10 lakh. Even though Gurugram has twice failed to be on the ministry’s Smart City list, the state government has not given up in trying to project it as one of India’s leading cities. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has announced several times that Haryana will bear the expenses of developing Gurugram as a Smart City on its own, with technical assistance from the Centre.
 
 
