NAGPUR: Vice chancellor SP Kane has decided to adopt wait and watch strategy following joint director of higher education Archana Nerkar’s order to recover Rs23 lakh from   Puran Meshram, since his pay scale in professor’s grade was allegedly found ‘not as per norms’.

 Meshram has moved Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, which will settle the question on the recovery, as well as his continuation as registrar. Unless he gets   respite, Meshram would be superannuating on June 30.
 
 Kane told reporters that Meshram has challenged the government decision regarding pay fixation and the matter is sub judice. “The court has granted status quo on the recovery issue. Now, there are two possibilities before the administration. First, the government issues letter for his continuation even after June 30. Second, HC passes an order before June 30, which will clarify the issue,” he said.
 
 In case Meshram gets a favourable order, he will have to apply for extension till the age of 62, or the entire term of five years. He has completed around two-and-a-half-years of the term.
 
 Kane added that the joint director has sought NU’s opinion on the recovery issue, but it is not the duty of the university to recover the dues. He explained that Meshram’s last two salaries were fixed in professor grade while his appointments as deputy registrar and registrar were non-teaching posts.
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday,   held the Management Council meeting which had to be adjourned last week. The council approved autonomy for GS College, besides finalizing several important decisions.
 
 Other issues included setting up of sexual harassment cell and deployment of MSSC guards at the sensitive exam centre and upper boy’s hostel.
 
 Another important decision pertained to outsourcing of teaching and non-teaching posts. The council approved the decision to hire 50 personnel on contract basis for non-teaching work.
 
 Decision on Sunil Mishra case today
 
 NU has convened emergent meeting on Tuesday of the Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) to take a decision on withdrawal of November 13, 2006, Board of Examinations (BoE) decision, which allegedly helped then law student Sunil Mishra escape conviction in Kohchade scam
 
 Top Nagpur University (NU) officers, including ex-vice chancellor SN Pathan, ex-pro-VC Gaurishanker Parasher, ex- registrar Subhash Belsare, ex-controller of examinations (CoE) ML Nagargoje and eight members of the Board of Examinations (BoE) had allegedly colluded to accept bogus mark sheets surrendered by Mishra
 
 Sunil Mishra, along with three exam officials, was arrested by Sitabuldi police and put on trial by a special court for cheating NU by preparing forged marklist of his LLB Part-1 in 2000
 
 
