Gone are the days when summer vacations were just limited to a few summer camps. Greater awareness and the desire in kids to learn something new, is making these camps more innovative with each passing year. Lucknow is host to a variety of summer camps for kids these days. From the regular activities like dance and cookery, this year summer camps are being conducted where kids can learn the art of making bonsais to flying drones and also hone their acting skills at theatre workshops.
CLOSE TO NATURE 
 Shashwat Pathak, a bonsai artist from the city, recently organised a bonsai workshop with kids. He says, "It was my first attempt at this kind of a workshop and I was pleasantly surprised to see such active participation from kids of different age groups. The whole exercise of bonsai plants brought the kids close to nature. And even though the workshop is over now, I still get calls from the participants regarding the aftercare of the plants," shares Shashwat, who will now be holding another workshop for kids and their mothers, soon.
 
  
    recently conducted a Bonsai workshop with kids (BCCL)
 
 FLYING HIGH 
 Trying to be unique and bringing her expertise into teaching,   has started a robotic workshop where she has children coming from other parts of India as well. "I have seen many children wasting money on buying expensive gaming gadgets, so now I conduct workshops where I teach them how to make robots where drone making is one of the models. They construct their own gadgets which are not that expensive also."
 And Mohsina does something really hatke in her camp. "My summer camp is a 20-day crash course where I also teach special kids. My aim of conducting these workshops is that I want to bring the special children and the mainstream children on a single platform so that they get a good exposure," adds she.
 WHAT'S COOKING?
 Pankaj Bhadouria, winner of MasterChef India season 1, who offers culinary summer classes at her academy in the city, says that kids now want to learn cooking as well. "We always receive a great response during the summer break where a lot of kids of the age group 8-14 years participate enthusiastically. Now, the kids have become smart and they know which field they want to go into at an early age, therefore, even an eight-year-old kid at our academy knows a lot about cooking when he or she joins," says Pankaj, adding, "We teach them fire-free cooking, microwave cooking and baking and they learn the skills very fast. Seeing the enthusiasm for cooking in such small kids motivates me too."
 
  
  Kids learning new dishes at Pankaj Bhadouria’s cookery class (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
 A STROKE OF E-CREATIVITY 
 Pankaj Gupta, an artist, too receives an over-whelming response for his summer workshops. "I conduct both summer camps and workshops which include a variety of activities like still life photography, landscape, and mixed media. We give them assignments also so that they do something constructive during their free time. These kind of camps are a great start for children who have an interest in photography and opens their minds to finer details in things and their surroundings."
 
  
    with kids at his painting summer camp (BCCL)
 
 PUT ON YOUR DANCING SHOES
 Manjari Pandey, a Bharatnatyam dancer, offers a variety of activities in singing and dancing in summer camps that she conducts. "The summer camp which I conduct for a month is not restrained to any particular age group, instead, it is open for all. Children enroll in for a variety of courses like Zumba, Yoga, classical music, singing, Bollywood dance," says Manjari, adding, "Instead of kids spending time indoors, it's good for them to be involved in some physical activity. Dance is one such form where a lot of physical activity takes place and also involves a lot of creativity. Dance helps a child become more flexible. That's why I see a large number of children, especially girls, participate in my workshops."
 
  
  Kids learning dance at a workshop in the city with Manjari Pandey (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
 On the other hand,  , a trained Bharatanatyam dancer and choreographer, teaches acrobatics mixed with contemporary dance. Amrit says, "People now want to learn about new art forms and be at par with performers on TV and in films. I try to teach various dance forms where classical is infused to make it more interesting for the children. These kinds of summer camps are a great start for these children for their overall development, where they get to hone their talent as well. I have also started conducting classes in acrobatics, for which the response from kids has been great."
 LIGHTS CAMERA ACTION 
 Mahesh Chandra Deva, a theatre veteran and a film actor, who has acted in several Bollywood films shot in the city, has been conducting theatre workshops for kids in the city. The summer camp offers children training in acting, dance, singing, sculpture, yoga, and writing. Talking about the benefits of this workshop, Mahesh Chandra says, "Theatre in itself a complete mind and body exercise which helps the kids to explore and realize their hidden talents and potential. While acting helps in understanding the various expressions of life, dance and yoga help in keeping the fit and gives peace of mind. With so many shootings being conducted in the city now, the number of students in my acting workshop has increased in these past few years," says he. 
 
  
  Kids enjoying at a theatre workshop being conducted by   (BCCL)
 
 Another theatre workshop for kids is being conducted by   Yadav, a theatre artist, who has acted in many films and serials. Sandeep, who himself started his career from a workshop at  , talks about the overall benefits of such camps. "Theatre is not only about acting, children learn pronunciation, voice modulation, storytelling apart from their overall personality development. It serves as a platform to overcome stage fear and thus improving their communication skills. They are also taught to be more sensitive towards their families and society as well," shares Sandeep.
 By Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com, Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com, Adnaan Rizvi and Prachi Arya
 
 
 
 
