DURBAN: A thin line separates India and South Africa when it comes to dominating world cricket these days. A few points here and a few points there - barring the T20I rankings, which mean little from a bilateral perspective anyway - the two countries compete neck to neck in the International Cricket Council's (ICC) Test and ODI rankings.

 
 
 
 
 India are the World's No. 1 ranked Test team followed by South Africa, who are barely six points behind. South Africa are the World's No. 1 ranked One-day team followed by India who are only one point behind.
 
 These rankings are a good indicator to how consistent both the countries have been in the two formats over the last one year and more. A testimony to the competition between them in Test cricket was the recently concluded three-match series which was keenly fought.
 
 A testimony to the competition between them in One-Day International cricket will be the six-match series beginning February 1.
 
 To South Africa's misfortune, they've lost out on   for the first three One-dayers. The maverick batsman has been ruled out due to an injury he sustained to his right index finger during the third Test at the Wanderers and will require two weeks to stage a full recovery.
 
 
 
 
 The fiercely competitive Test series has fuelled the hopes of the fans that more of the same can be expected in the shorter formats too. South African all-rounder   certainly feels that way. "I certainly think so," says JP, who will now be on the opposite side of the contest where   is concerned and a couple of months later, play alongside him for the  . He laughs and adds. "Yes, in a few months' time, we'll be teammates. But right now, you know you're going to be competitive, you want to win and I don't think see anything different," he says.
 
 "Even though we won the first two Test matches, India competed and that's what you want to see from high profile teams. India being the World's No. 1 ranked team, you expect nothing less from them. I think it's going to be a highly competitive series in ODIs and T20s," says JP.
 
  
  
 
 The Indian team arrived at the   on Tuesday morning, looking to knock some balls outside the park at the nets. It's a format they'll look to use to assert their dominance.
 
 "We are very keen to win this ODI series. I believe it will be a great way to start the series thinking about the 2019 World Cup," says Rohit Sharma. Given the form that he's shown in this format, he'll have a point to prove here after all the selection mess that centered around him during the Tests.
 
 
 
 
 Having spent more than a month already in South Africa, India are shifting gears from one format to another, looking forward to another monthlong sojourn. In doing so, ODI opener Sharma does admit that a break between formats could help. Of course, he adds, the team's job is to do whatever is required of them.
 
 "Yes, there have been talks about going and playing just one format and then going back home. For India, it's never been like that. India have always played the whole series whenever we've gone abroad. And yes, it tends to take a lot out of your body more than anything else. We've spoken and said that one format (at a time) will be good for the players' sake. But again, it completely depends on  . Ideally, we would prefer to go back, refresh ourselves, get some time to yourself, think about what you need to do and come back and play another format. But we're used to it now, doesn't matter," he says.
 
  
  
 
