BATHINDA: Wheat fields spread over 100 acres, and comprising harvest-ready crop and some stubble, caught fire in  ,   and   districts on Tuesday. 

 In the first incident, wheat crop and stubble in nearly 70 acres was burnt at Vadda Ghar village near Moga. 
 
 Villagers said fire started due to sparking in a fodder-making machine. Harvest-ready crop and stubble of farmers Balbir Singh, Gamdoor Singh, Gurbachan Singh and Gurpreet Singh were damaged. The patwari (revenue employee) inspected the fields and said the assessment of loss would be made to compensate farmers. Two fire tenders from Moga doused the fire. 
 
 In the second incident, fire broke out in the fields of Amarpura Kothe village near Bathinda, where wheat crop over 20 acres, belonging to Amandeep Singh, Labh Singh, Lakhbir Singh, Gursewak Singh and Sant Singh, was damaged. Besides, crop spread over nearly five acres was also destroyed in a fire in a village of Mansa. 
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has ordered a special girdawari for the assessment of crop loss due to the recent rain and hailstorm in the state. Deputy Commissioners will get a valuation done of the crop damage caused by fire due to short circuit. The DCs have been ordered to get a joint assessment done by the respective SDMs and   officers to identify cases of such damage and submit a detailed report for further action by the government. The directives followed inputs regarding losses suffered by farmers as a result of the unseasonal rains, accompanied by hail, and also on account of electrical short circuits.
 
 
 
 
 Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered a special girdawari for the assessment of crop loss due to the recent rain and hailstorm in the state. Deputy commissioners will also evaluate the worth of crops damaged by fires caused by short circuits. The DCs have been ordered to get a joint assessment done by SDMs and PSPCL officers to identify cases of such damage and submit a detailed report for further action by the government. The order comes close on the heels of reports of losses suffered by farmers as due to unseasonal rains, accompanied by hail, and also on account of electrical short circuits.
 
 
