MUMBAI: Pawan Hans officials on Sunday spoke of the possibility of the helicopter engine having exploded. “Given the state of the wreckage and the remains of the passengers, there is a strong possibility that the engine might have developed a problem and exploded,” surmised an official. The definitive answer to what caused the accident cannot be expected anytime soon. The investigation report of the November 2015 Pawan Hans crash off Mumbai High, that killed both pilots on board, was released about two years later, in August 2017. The preliminary investigation report, supposed to be released within a months' time so that lessons are learnt from a crash, was never released.

 On Sunday, the search operation for a pilot and an ONGC executive missing after Saturday’s crash continued till late, in vain. The helicopter, with two pilots and five senior ONGC executives, crashed in the   about 56km northwest of Juhu airport on Saturday morning. Its black box was recovered during Sunday’s search.
 
 The   said in the evening that till then five bodies and some body parts had been recovered and given to ONGC, though   reported six bodies. Coast Guard officials said it was best to confirm with the hospital or the ONGC about the exact identification of the bodies. The officials also said they are making efforts to get all missing persons, whether believed to be one or two. On Sunday, the family of one of the executives, V K Bindulal   (50), was called to the Cooper Hospital morgue to identify one of the bodies, but Babu’s wife said it was not his. On Sunday another Coast Guard ship ICGS  , from Mumbai, joined the search and rescue (SAR) operation. ONGC vessel TAG 15, undertaking a side scan sonar (SSS) operation, found debris 600 yards from the wreckage position. At least 12 ships were pressed into action for carrying out the search to locate the helicopter’s debris and missing persons. Of the ships, four belonged to the Coast Guard, two to the Navy and six to the ONGC.
 
 Meanwhile, Naval ship INS Makar, a catamaran hydrographic survey vessel, sailed from Karwar and augmented the search operation, along with other search vessels. “The helicopter’s voice data recorder (VDR) will help us in collecting details on the cause of the mishap,” said a Coast Guard official.
 
 The accident occurred on Saturday shortly after 10.30am, when the helicopter lost communication with Juhu air traffic control (ATC). The Coast Guard’s western headquarters deployed a Dornier aircraft for search after receiving information around 11.20am from the ONGC about a helicopter with seven persons (two pilots and five passengers) missing. The location falls in the approach or return leg of the route taken by ONGC helicopters while proceeding to oil rigs at Mumbai High.
 
