THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ongoing efforts to declare 3,200 hectres in Munnar as Neelakurinji sanctuary and the controversies surrounding the same has prompted the state government to restrict the number of visitors to the hill town during the   flowering season. 

 As per a preliminary study of national transportation planning and research centre (Natpac), approximately eight lakh tourists are expected to visit Munnar, Eravikulam National Park (ENP) and adjoining areas for three months from August.
 
 On Wednesday, a meeting, chaired by tourism minister   agreed on the suggestion that there should be restriction on visitors.
 
 
  
 
 "The priority will be to allow visitors to see the spectacle without damaging the environment and ecology of the area, and also without affecting the day-to-day livelihood of the local stakeholders,"   district collector G R Gokul said.
 
 The study by Natpac has recommended imposition of restrictions in the number of vehicles that should be permitted to visit Munnar during the period. In its report that pointed out the serious shortage of space proportionate to the people and vehicles, Natpac has recommended that tourist buses coming from major roads should be stopped from entering Munnar town while car and two-wheelers should be stopped at Old Munnar from where shuttle service can be provided. Only tourists with entry tickets to Eravikulam national park should be allowed. Government is seriously considering restricting the number of entry tickets to ENP, though no decision on the vehicle entry to Munnar has been taken yet.
 
 "There would be restrictions on the basis of the final report of Natpac's scientific analysis. The government will take a final call on the matter on how should the restrictions be imposed," he said.
 
 The forest department is also of the strong view that there should be restrictions for visitors. Sources said that if the government agrees to restrict the entry of vehicles to Munnar, it should be done at Nerymangalam, the main entry point to Idukki that witnesses the highest number of vehicles from the state, and at  , which is the main entry to the area from  . Another possible route is from Thekkady, which also will have to be restricted.
 
 The district administration is making preparations on the basis of its previous experience in 2014, when Kurinji plants blossomed in Chokramudi, Gap Road and Korandikkad areas. During the flowering season in 2006, 3.5 lakh people had visited Munnar.
 
 
