Trichy: Tiruchirappalli Regional Engineering College-Science Technology Entrepreneurs Park (TREC-STEP) will be the first among the 50 Atal Incubation Centres (AIC) proposed to be established this year under the National Institution for Transforming India scheme. NITI Aayog will set up the incubation centres as part of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) with the aim of promoting innovation and entrepreneurship.  This was confirmed by R Ramanan, Mission Director, Atal Innovation Mission, NITI AAYOG on the sidelines of an interaction between budding incubates and representatives from the mission. He said that the incubation centre promoted by the central and state governments would also be launching a satellite incubation centre at Chennai. This would serve as a platform for supporting incubatees through knowledge sharing and mentorship from the Indian diaspora in the United States.  “Our Trichy’s centre will serve as base by receiving 70 per cent of the AIM's fund while the Chennai centre will serve as satellite incubation centre to connect with global market. About 30 per cent of the funds we receive from NITI Aayog will go into the development of our Chennai’s facility,” RMP Jawahar, Executive Director, TREC-STEP, told TOI.  Initially 32 incubatees with solid business models were identified by TREC-STEP to fund their startup ideas under AIM schemes while 48 more incubatees are soon to be identified under the same which altogether would generate 3,000 jobs. “We are creating an ecosystem for incubatees. By the end of 2018, we would have supported 50 incubation centres under Atal Incubation Centre (AIC) scheme. Job creation is the main emphasize of AIC,” said Ramanan. Besides the support and guidance from mentors with expertise in various fields including agriculture and manufacturing sectors, 50 incubation centres are to be provided each with Rs 10 crore grants to cover the capital and operational expenditure. Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) had identified 19 incubators hailing from 15 states found to be having the potential to be covered under the mission. As many as 13 incubators among the identified were Greenfield incubators. With 19 incubation centres identified for AIM, 31 more incubation centres based on their business plan and basic infrastructure readily available are to be identified within 2018.