KOLKATA: The diagnosis is out and it does not sound very pretty for the city as it heads for another season of vector-borne diseases. Kolkata and Bengal are now more prone to the more dangerous   serotypes II and IV instead of serotypes I and III, which have hitherto been more predominant in the region, and this may be the cause for the sharp spike in the number of dengue deaths last year.

  
  
 
 Experts have suspected this since dengue outbreaks started turning more frequent and deadly since the start of this decade. 
 
 But an   analysis of blood samples collected from the city and the rest of Bengal puts an official stamp on this. It has revealed that the prevalence of serotype II has jumped from 26% in 2016 to 73% in 2017. 
 
 And the prevalence of serotype IV, believed to be the most potent of the dengue variants, has jumped from 11.4% in 2016 to 18% last year. Various estimates have put the number of dengue deaths in Kolkata in 2017 at around 50 and experts say the spike in the prevalence of the more dangerous strains may be the principal reason behind the spike in deaths.
 
 The comparative serotype data analysis, done by ICMR, was unveiled at a Swasthya Bhavan meeting last week between representatives of private hospitals and health officials. It confirmed the apprehension that Kolkata was now confronted with new strains that could not be effectively countered by our imm-une system.
 
 “Our systems are conditioned to generate antibodies for serotypes I and III, which used to be predominant till recently. But, with the viral profile changing, we are now more vulnerable to dengue. Our antibodies cannot yet counter dengue of serotypes II and IV effectively. This also explains why haemorrhagic dengue was so frequent last year, often leading to deaths,” microbiologist Irfaan Akhtar said.
 
 Serotypes I and III, which were more common till recently, have slid sharply. Serotype I was responsible for 52% of the cases in 2016; it dipped to just 3.3% last year. Serotype III cases plunged from 9% in 2016 to 4% in 2017.
 
 Director of health services Ajay Chakrabarty admitted that the data comparison revealed a worrying trend. “Serotype IV has gone up, which probably explains the rise in the number of deaths triggered by platelet loss. The blood samples were analysed by ICMR. Our immune system is not ready to counter the new strains for they have hitherto been rare in our state. This is also the reason why many had repeat dengue attacks last year, which was unusual,” he said.
 
 R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant Arindam Biswas agreed: “A large number had dengue for a second time last year, which showed that their immune system was not ready to counter the virus. A second attack itself is dangerous; but, with serotype IV triggering a platelet drop, the combined effect has been disastrous,” he added.
 
 The problem is that a section of experts feel that the worse is yet to come. “Serotype IV has just started showing an upswing. There may be a sharper jump next year in the number of cases it triggers. The consequences then may be even worse,” Akhtar said.
 
 The next three-four years would be crucial for Kolkata and Bengal, Chakrabarty felt. “We must try and control dengue epidemics till we grow a resistance to the new strains,” he said.
 
 
