PORVORIM:   on Friday scoffed at the allegations made by the BJP-led coalition government that the opposition was trying to destabilize the Manohar Parrikar government. Responding to statements made by   president   and the Goa BJP executive committee, Congress MLAs said that the government continued to enjoy power only because the Congress party was not making any move to bring down the current government.
 
 “If the Congress had tried to bring down the government, the government would have fallen by now,” leader of the opposition   said after a   (CLP) meeting at his chamber.
 
 On Thursday, the Goa BJP executive committee denounced the “attempts of the Congress” to destabilize the BJPled coalition government. Sardesai had also blamed the Congress for instigating social unrest as a means to bring down the government.
 
 “The BJP keeps claiming that the Congress is trying to destabilize the government,” Kavlekar said. “The Congress is doing no such thing. I think the government and its own MLAs feel that the government is unstable.”
 
 The CLP meeting was called to discuss the delay in completion of infrastructure creation and upgradation projects in constituencies. Congress MLAs said that despite Parrikar specifying that plan expenditureof up to Rs 25 crores would be taken up in each constituency, bureaucrats continued to keep files pending.
 
 “In each constituency, development has come to a standstill. Each MLA had given their preference and priority works, but now, the financial year is over and forget Rs 25 crore, works of even Rs 25 have notbeen taken up.Thefiles have been shunted,” Kavlekar said.
 
 The Congress MLAs adopted a resolution that a fresh meeting should be convened with the chief secretary and all senior officers to quicken the approval process for developmental works.
 
 Lack of a comprehensive plan to restart mining, the financial crunch and unreasonable increase in tariffs were also indications that the government remained clueless, the Congress said.
 
