It is just a few days since the shooting of director Seenu Ramasamy’s  , starring   and   in the lead roles wrapped up. With the story set in   near Madurai, we catch up with the film’s heroine, who talks about her time in Madurai, the visit to the   temple, her 13 years in the film industry, what she would’ve become if not an actor, and much more. Excerpts.

 
 We were actually there for quite a while. I think I spent almost a month in Madurai. No, it is not my first visit to the Meenakshi temple. I was trying to make most of the time I had in Madurai. I was like I am here, and so I might as well make the most of it; go out as much as I can. Madurai, in general, is very green and it gives you a sense of how beautiful our villages are. There’s so much greenery and it is actually different for people who are city-bred and who don’t actually get that kind of an exposure.
 
 
 We basically had shooting in the interior parts of villages, and so wasn’t exactly in the city. It was where there are mostly a lot of fields. I got to see how they work in the fields, because there is a film scene like that, and the local people there were explaining how it’s done. In that side of Madurai, people have their own cattle, and harvest their own food, too.
 
 
 I’ve visited villages many times earlier, but I think I got more chance to interact with the local people now. For them, water scarcity is an issue because it hasn’t rained for long. So, it is a great reality check as to how important it is to be careful to conserve and not add to the wastage through the amenities that we get in a city life. We were very appreciative of the fact that when you go to a village, it is actually less stressful because the life here is way slower than what we experience in the city. So, now, I have got a taste of both.
 
 
 Yes, my character comes to Sholavandan. We are using that as a backdrop, and I was happy that I got the role because Seenu sir has always been someone who makes you a lot more realistic; like when you watch a film, it is more organic. I think he stuck to that very strongly, which is great, and he projected all the women in the film as very strong. That is something I think is a huge change in the industry in general, and Seenu sir has always done that. 
 
 
 Yeah, I did not know that it has been that long, but it’s interesting that time really flies. In fact, the shooting of the film, too, was nothing but a breeze, because it was really quick.
 
 
 Yeah, it was really nice. I love what I do, and I enjoy being on a film set and it’s nice when you’re with people you’re really comfortable with. I’m glad we worked on a film like this rather than something that could have been more commercial. I believe the film gave both of us a lot of opportunity to discover ourselves as actors and both of us had very interesting roles to play.
 
 
 My first film came out when I was 15. It is actually a very tender age to take up something that you actually like. It so happened to me that I was really lucky to find what I wanted to do. Of course, I had extremely supportive parents without whom it wouldn’t have been possible in the first place. Having a strong desire of wanting to do this, and being supported for it, I think I was extremely lucky. I strangely didn’t have a destination figured in my head, but I just knew I wanted to act. I think I got way more than I could have ever imagined. I’m not from the film industry, and have no godfather or anybody I was remotely connected to. The fact that I made it so far is something where I can’t ask for more.
 
 
 It’s hard to imagine what I would have done. I love writing, but I don’t think I would’ve pursued it. I write because it gives me solace. However, profession-wise, my family has many doctors. I would’ve done something there out of sheer familiar terrain, but I think I am so much drawn towards creativity that I doubt I would’ve survived there.
 
 
 I actually don’t have a blog, but I think I’ll use social media even more actively. It is only this year that I decided to put out what I write into the public domain. I normally wouldn’t post my thoughts online, but I think I am now ready to do so.
 
 
 I did a song in Kannada, but haven’t worked in   or Malayalam films. My hands are full with Tamil and Telugu films that I don’t end up getting the time to do Kannada or films in any other language. However, I know I will for sure take up such films when the time is right. I am very open to it.
 
 
 The Telugu remake of Queen is the only project I am currently filming for. I’m reading more scripts, but I have already been shooting for the past three months. I shot for two films. So I’m sure after this, I’m going to need some breather before I start filming again. I hope I get a breather, because it’s pretty intense doing a lot of women-centric films that are demanding.
 
