PATNA: Patna divisional commissioner and chairman of Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) Anand Kishor on Tuesday said it would be difficult to conserve the entire administrative office of   (PMCH) when the hospital will be redeveloped into a 4,300-bed modern hospital.

 “Only a section of the hospital’s administrative office can be conserved as a heritage site just like the old jail structure that has been conserved at Buddha Smriti Park,” Kishor said. BMSICL is the nodal agency for the redevelopment of PMCH.
 
 The plans include demolishing several old constructions and replacing them with modern structures. Most of the original structures of the hospital are in a dilapidated condition.
 
 If the official site of PMCH is anything to go by, the college was established as Temple Medical School in 1874 with the admission of 30 students. Later, it was formally inaugurated as Prince of Wales Medical College, Patna, on February 25, 1925. Various buildings were constructed by the donations from Princely states of Bihar. The administrative building has so far seen 40 principals, the first being Colonel H R Dutton and 40th being Dr S N Sinha, who retired last year. The building includes the offices of superintendent and principal of PMCH as well.
 
 The redevelopment work will be carried out in three stages so that the functioning of the hospital is not affected. In the first phase, the buildings near Rajendra Surgical block, such as the cottage ward, prisoner’s ward, GNM training institute and hostels will be demolished to construct a 1,400-bed hospital building. This structure is proposed to have six floors apart from the ground floor. The hospital will also have a 200-bed emergency unit that will also include a radiology wing.
 
 At a meeting between the hospital administration and BMSICL officials in November last year, it was proposed that cafeterias for students, doctors and attendants should also come up at the hospital, apart from a 500-bed building where the kin of the patients can stay. The plans also include construction of an 18-room guest house. 
 
 
