CHANDIGARH: The full   to   (PU) would not affect the fee structure of existing courses, said vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover on Wednesday.

 “Fee structure of new courses can be determined. But can you increase the fee for existing courses in PU, which is so politicised? If the fee of a course is Rs 100, even if I increase it by 100% to Rs 200, how much income will I generate? We had attempted to rationalise the fee structure, but nobody understood,” said Grover.
 
 The UGC got a hike of 3% in funds, but promised PU a hike of 6%. This kind of hike raises the question that won’t universities be compelled to hike the fee in the absence of major financial support to educational institutions? Panjab University gets grants from the Centre as well as the Punjab government. However, state universities have to be dependent on their own income. But another question is that for a university like PU, which has major political interference, can the fee be hiked to generate income? asked experts.
 
 The VC said, “We had tried to rationalise the fee structure and suggested generating jobs for students who can’t afford to pay the fee. We also have scholarships for such students. But a hue and cry was created. People said don’t generate jobs, don’t hike the fee, but run the university. People also questioned as to how can you pay teachers’ salaries through students’ fee. The day PU becomes HMT Pinjore, only then people will realise what has gone from this city. We have to be realistic on the total human resource that this country generates,” said Grover.
 
 When asked, former dean university instructions Prof A K   said the UGC has no rule in determining the fee of PU students. “I don’t think this autonomy is going to affect the fee structure of PU. UGC determines the fee of central universities. Increasing fees is a self-restrictive mechanism, if we increase fee, students won’t come,” added Bhandari.
 
 Photo Quotes
 
 PU had decided to hike fee substantially last year when it was not even granted this autonomy. Now when it has been granted this autonomy, why won’t it hike fee? Moreover, the autonomy has also been given to certain private institutions, whose fee is already skyrocketing. This is certainly worrisome for students
 
 Mehtab Singh | PU student
 
 Education will become costlier and not serve students of the deprived section of the society. We will fight against the decision of the UGC. I believe the government should spend 10% of the Union Budget on universities as they are the R&D for a nation. We'll fight till every last student in India will be able to get quality education. We will not let PU raise a single penny by putting more burden on students
 
 Vani Sood, secretary,   (PUCSC)
 
 
