PATNA: Normal life was thrown out of gear as dalits disrupted rail and road traffic to enforce bandh in   as part of the nationwide bandh called by dalit organisations against alleged dilution of the   (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.

 While an infant died for want of medicate as the ambulance carrying him got stuck in a road blockade in Mahnar block of Vaishali district, activists of the Bhim Sena and other dalit groups forcibly stopped over three dozen passenger trains at Patna, Muzafffarpur, Gaya, Jehanabad, Barh, Islampur, Ara, Nawada and Warisaliganj stations, among others.
 
 Reports of bandh supporters squatting on railway tracks also came from others parts of the state. Many protesters were seen carrying blue flags bearing the name of Bhim Sena.
 
 The issue also rocked the state legislative assembly, which had to be adjourned till lunch break due the bedlam created by opposition RJD and Congress as well as a couple of ruling JD (U) members. Later leader of opposition in assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav along with ex-CM and HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi joined the protesters at Dak Bungalow crossing at Patna.
 
 Bandh supporters stormed the court premises at Darbhanga and indulged in vandalism.
 
 State police HQ said altogether 3,619 bandh supporters were arrested across the state. ADG (HQ) S K Singhal said 35 arrests were made in Patna, 600 in Kaimur, 2,500 in Muzaffarpur and 484 in Darbhanga. He said the arrested people included those bound down as a preventive measure under Section 151 of the CrPC. They will be released on bonds from police stations.
 
 A bandh supporters Ganesh Buddh told TOI at Yarpur that their protest was against “attempts to amend” the Constitution. “Modifying constitutional rights of dalits and minorities is unacceptable. Demolition of B R Ambedkar’s idols will also not be tolerated,” he said. 
 
 Saharsa: Bandh supporters, including women activists, forcibly entered the DM's official chamber and created a chaotic situation as they beat ‘nagadas’ and shouted slogans against PM  . Government offices, including banks and post offices, as well as colleges were shut. Vehicular traffic was paralysed on almost all the roads.
 
 Gaya: Hundreds of Bhim Sena activists armed with thick bamboos vandalised the Gaya railway station and paralysed movement of trains on the Gaya-Patna, Gaya Kiul, Gaya-Dhanbad and Gaya-Mughalsarai routes for nearly three hours between 10.15am and 1.30pm.
 
 They also vandalised railway property. A railway official said no less than 800 tubelights were broken. The protesters also disrupted the station’s Wi-Fi system and caused extensive damage to ticket counters and reservation display board.
 
 Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said 20 bandh supporters were detained. Those against whom evidence of violence surfaces will be sent to jai, he said and added the situation was fully under control as normalcy returned to the town in the afternoon.
 
 Bhagalpur: Bandh supporters fought pitched battles with the police at several places, including Rai Kashi Nath Mor. They forced closure of shops, educational institutions and other establishments.
 
 Bhim Sena activists also ruled the roost in adjoining Naugachhia, Sultanganj and Kahalgaon towns. They squatted on railway tracks as a result of which several trains, including Bhagalpur-Yeshwantpur Express, Surat Express and  , were stranded at different places.
 
 The agitators raised slogans against PM Narendra Modi-led Union government and its failure to plead their case effectively before the Supreme Court. “That’s why the apex court has ruled that arrests in cases lodged under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act will now be made only after investigation into such complaints,” said one bandh suporter.
 
 Ara: Complete bandh was witnessed in this district HQ town of Bhojpur and adjoining areas. Ransacking of shops and scuffle at different places were also reported. 
 
 At the old collectorate building near the Ara civil court, chairs of lawyers were allegedly turned upside down by bandh supporters who also indulged in scuffle with lawyers.
 
 Ara railway station master S K Jain said bandh supporters blocked the railway track at the station since 6.15am. Train services could be restored only around 1.10pm.
 
 Koelwar SHO Pankaj Kumar Saini said bandh supporters blocked the bridge on the Sone at Koelwar from 10.30am to 11.45am, bringing vehicular movement on the Ara-Patna route to a grinding halt.
 
 Bagaha: Bandh supporters took out a procession carrying effigies of PM Narendra Modia and CM Nitish Kumar.
 
 Sitamarhi: Bandh supporters vandalised the railway station and pelted shops at Gaushala Chowk with stones. Vehicles were off the roads, while business establishments and banks remained shut.
 
 
