CHANDIGARH: Since January 2013, as many as 116 women have lost their lives in accidents out of which maximum were two-wheeler riders. Police said that the main reason behind this is women generally don’t wear helmets while driving whereas other wear sub-standard helmets which are made of poor quality.

 A data shows that in the last five years, a total 116 women died from January 2013 to December 2017. 18 women in 2013 while 26 women lost their lives in 2014. However, in 2015, city witnessed 13 deaths. In 2016, the figure went up to 22 and last year, city recorded 18 deaths.
 
 Now, traffic police have started an awareness campaign to persuade women riders to wear   while driving. Traffic police have started distributing stickers with message saying ‘Helmet saves her head too’ outside colleges and busy traffic junctions.  , traffic police inspector organized an awareness camp for the staff of   on Tuesday morning. Traffic police distributed stickers and made women drivers aware about the benefits of wearing helmet while riding two wheelers. Police have also been persuading women pillion riders to wear helmet while travelling on two wheelers.
 
 Talking to TOI, traffic inspector Sita Devi told that an awareness campaign is being going on in the city. We told women to wear helmets for themselves and their families. In case of accident, if drivers or pillion riders with helmets, there is 90 percent chance of his or her survival, inspector told.
 
  Gupta, resident of Sector 45, who has been driving activa scooter for the last ten years always wear a helmet. Parul doesn’t allow even pillion rider without helmet while travelling on her scooter. Sharing an incident, Parul said, “One day I was going to the market and one of the tyre of her scooter got punctured and I fell on road. Luckily, I was wearing helmet and escaped unhurt. I always try to convince my friends to wear helmet while riding on two wheelers.
 
 Another driver,   told that she generally doesn’t wear helmet while driving but now she wears. She says, “One should always wear helmet. Head injuries are very serious and can prove to be fatal.” 
 
 After attending the awareness camp, Pooja, resident of Sector 45 said that now she will buy a helmet and start wearing it while driving.
 
 
