Nagpur: Four months after PM Narendra Modi inaugurated three units of the Koradi Thermal Power Station (KTPS), two of them were them asked to be shut down by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for not following pollution norms.  The function was held on April 14 last year. On August 22, the CPCB chairman had written to the managing director of the Maharashtra State Power Generation Company Limited (Mahagenco) about the non-compliance. TOI has a copy of the letter. Based on a news report published by TOI in April last year, RTI activist Ankita Shah had filed a complaint with the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), drawing its attention towards the air pollution caused due to the plant. Following this, an inspection was carried out by board officials.  The chairman’s letter states that a team from the board’s Vadodara office observed non-compliance of rules during an inspection carried out from May 31 to June 2, 2017. “KTPS is operating unit number 7 and 10 without valid consent which is mandatory under Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981),” the letter stated.  According to it, the consent for units 7 and 10 had expired on August 31, 2015 and April 30, 2017, respectively. Apart from this, the inspecting team also noted that KTPS had to install flue gas desulphuriser (FGD), a pollution control equipment to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions, by December 7, 2017 as per the condition mentioned in the environmental clearance.  However, last month, the CPCB has reportedly extended the deadline of installing FGDs. As per the new schedule, KTPS has to install FGD in unit 10 by December 2020 and in other units by March 2021.  Under section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, the CPCB had directed Mahagenco to “close down operations of units 7,8 and 10 with immediate effect” till consent to operate gets renewed by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). While unit 7 is an old one, 8 and 10 are among the three new units which were inaugurated by the PM.  According to an official from Mahagenco, the company, on September 22, had replied to the board’s missive stating that the process of installing FGD was already initiated. “For the first phase, we have floated tenders for installing FGD in unit 10. A pre-bid meeting was also held in which we answered queries of the participating bidders,” he said.  Replying on the direction of closing down three units, KTPS stated that the application for renewing the consent is pending with MPCB. “We had submitted an application for renewal well before time but it is pending with the board’s committee. They treat applications on first come first serve basis,” KTPS official said. The board had also directed KTPS to augment the efficiency of electrostatic precipitator (ESP), a device which controls industrial particulate emissions. According to the board, the emission of particulate matter from unit 7 was found to be 244 milligrams per cubic meter (mg/Nm3) against the permissible limit of 100 mg/NM3. Replying to this, Mahagenco stated that an Ammonia Flue Gas Conditioning (AFGC) System has been installed at the unit to bring the emissions under control. Four days back, TOI had reported it was not clear what concrete action has been taken by the CPCB against KTPS. TOI could not contact the concerned CPCB officials to know about further course of action.  “If the CPCB was satisfied with Mahagenco’s reply, it should have done a reality check to ensure pollution was brought under control. And if it was not, it should have taken stringent action like seizing the company’s bank gurantee or sealing the premises,” said Shah. 