Nagpur: The South East Central Railway (SECR) general manager SS Soin on Wednesday said that with congestion at Nagpur station, Itwari is the future of Nagpur with trains originating and terminating from here in a couple of years. Soin was on a routine inspection of stations between Gondia and Nagpur on Wednesday. In his last leg, he inspected Itwari station and was happy with the upkeep. Divisional railway manager (DRM) Amit Kumar Agarwal and all sectional heads were present. “Once the Chhindwara-Itwari broad gauge line is completed, Itwari will have originating trains via Gondia, Jabalpur[VP1] [VP2] [VP3] and Chhindwara. The line conversion between Jabalpur-Gondia-Balaghat is already under progress. Its completion will automatically increase importance of Itwari as it will be a full broad gauge circle then,” said Soin. DRM Agarwal said, “We expect to complete the Itwari-Chhindwara broad gauge line in next financial year. This will increase importance of Itwari. The idea is that by the time new line is completed, we will have a coaching complex in place to maintain trains. Tenders for the complex have already been floated.” “Apart from the Rs 12 crore coaching complex, we have sought another Rs 20 crore for second coaching complex for which estimates have been sent to Railway Board. We also have plans to increase platforms,” Agarwal added. The DRM informed SECR has already invested Rs 10 crore at Itwari to augment goods traffic. “To give aesthetic look to the station from Itwari and Kalamna ends we will develop gardens on both sides. Developing an entry gate from southern side of the station is also on cards for the convenience of the passengers. All the works are part of the master plan to develop Itwari into a terminus. When asked about Itwari-Nagbhid broad gauge project, Soin said the sanctioned project is to be completed on 50:50 cost sharing basis between state and railways. ”We will not start work on the 108km project unless land acquisition is complete,” said Soin.  Later in the evening, Soin visited heritage railway museum at Motibagh and released a coffee-table book. He also announced a group award of Rs 1 lakh to Nagpur division for better upkeep of stations under its jurisdiction. ITWARI TERMINUS  Passenger Trains: 3 pairs to Nagbhid, 3 to Ramtek, 1 to Tirodi, 5 to Gondia, besides 3 mail/express trains Kurla-Howrah, Kolhapur-Gondia Maharashtra and Shivnath and Tata Nagar already in operation.  Category: B  Passengers: Daily 8,000 travel from Itwari  Revenue: Rs4 lakh after withdrawal of narrow gauge operations  New Lines Plan: 1 pitline, stabling line, sick line, 2 loop lines and coaching complex.  Platforms: 6 broad and 1 narrow gauge. NG platform will be broad gauge in future.