MUMBAI: Three out of four women who get pregnant using assisted reproductive techniques (ART)—earlier known as test tube baby methods—give   prematurely, a recent   of 113 couples in Mumbai has found.

 
 The study, which was conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health (NIRRH) in Parel along with the Indian Society For Assisted Reproduction (ISAR), also found that 98% of these women had to undergo caesarean section. Ideally, less than 15% of the deliveries should be performed using caesarean section.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The study’s lead author Dr Anushree Patil from NIRRH said, “Preterm births are a global health problem...but their incidence is higher in ART  .”' The   states that 15 million babies are born   or before 37 completed weeks of gestation every year, and this number is rising. India, it is believed, accounts for 25% of these pre-term births.
 
 Now, the study, which was published in the International Journal of Reproduction, Contraception, Obstetrics and Gynecology, showed a high incidence of preterm birth (76.2%) among ART-conceived children. Almost half these pregnancies had multiple babies. 
 
 Typically, a couple that has opted for ART would be older than usual parents-to-be as they would have tried conceiving for a few years. More often than not, this older group has other health problems. “Given these circumstances, we decided to do a pilot study to find out how high is the burden of pre-term births among couples using ART.”
 
 Most ART pregnancies are “precious” because the couple has been trying for long. “There is hence a tendency among Indian doctors to implant multiple embryos,” said Dr Patil. As a result, the study found that 45% of the couples had twins or triplets. 
 
 The study concluded that with the growing use of ART, there is an urgent need to develop a National ART Surveillance System in India like the one in Centre for Disease Control, Atlanta, to get complete data on the pregnancy course and outcomes of ART conceptions. 
 
 The study’s co-author Dr Ameet Patki, who is also the ISAR secretary general, said couples seeking IVF should be counselled that they face a higher risk of pre-term births. 
 
 A senior doctor said that parents should also be counselled about the costs. “ART treatment runs into lakhs. These couples need to be told to keep a few more lakhs ready because their prematurely born babies may need NICU that too could cost over Rs 3 lakh or more for a couple of months.”
 
 
