MUMBAI: Investigations into the Friday fire at two rooftop restaurants in the   compound have begun bringing to light major fire safety lacunae at the establishments. The fire brigade and police investigations into the incident that claimed 14 lives are said to have found that even mandatory fire safety measures were completely overlooked. Sources said that a major problem rescue workers faced was that the emergency exit door at the   was bolted from inside. “This complicated fire-fighting operations, it appears, and firemen had to break open the door,” a senior police officer said.

 
 The officer said there was no sign or written indication on the exit door, which is mandatory.
 
 Fire brigade officials said confusion over the exit might have resulted in guests taking shelter in the bathroom, where they were suffocated by the smoke. The bathroom did not have any exhaust fan or window, found officials. The passage between the two restaurants, Mojo’s Bistro and 1Above, was very narrow and fire brigade officials found it difficult to use it as the flames had covered it fully.
 
 No permissions were obtained from the   to cover the two restauirants with tarpulin. Fire brigade sources said that while a conditional   had been issued to 1Above but no compliance report about the mandatory fire measures had been submitted back to the department.
 
 The restaurant had applied to the BMC local medical officer health for allowing food to be served on their rooftop which although they were already doing illegally. The MOH had sent the request for a fire NOC which was then issued to the restaurant 1 Above on December 23 last month.
 
 Preliminary reports into the incident suggested that while the restairants did have fire extinguishers, other crucial fire safety requirements like smoke detectors as well as fire alarms could not be spotted. The restairants did not seem to have done any fire audits recently though it is mandatory.
 
 A senior fire officer who was present on the day of blaze told  , “We did find fire extinguishers in a half-burned state but they did not aid us in controlling the flames
 
