PANAJI: Town and country planning minister   Sardesai on Monday ordered an inquiry into   conversions in the state. His decision comes in the wake of allegations against politicians and the Church during and after a huge public protest at Lohia Maidan on Friday.   said that based on the inquiry report, the government would take a decision, and could possibly scrap Regional Plan 2021.

 Sardesai told TOI that the probe will be conducted by a five-member committee which was constituted by him to recommend to the government projects with a built-up area of 2,000 sq m for approval under the revived RP 2021. “They’ve been asked to submit the report by June 1,” he said.
 
 The TCP minister said that the inquiry has been ordered as Goencho Avaaz has made allegations against politicians converting lands. Politicians have alleged that religious institutions have sold lands to builders who have converted these lands. A video is currently being circulated in social media about the “church selling property.”
 
 He also said that the committee doesn’t comprise politicians but experts. “It will inquire into all cases of conversions,” Sardesai said. 
 
 He added that the RP2021 wasn’t his baby but was in fact prepared during the chief ministership of Digambar Kamat. 
 
 Sardesai said that architect Dean D’Cruz and activist Dr Oscar Rebello, who were part of the drafting of the RP 2010, are now in AAP. He also condemned the Congress, some members of which attended the protest, for its ‘double standards’. “They used to demand that the RP 2021 should be operational,” he said. 
 
 The TCP minister also said that on Sunday, some people at the Navelim gram sabha tried to misguide citizens into believing that a greater Margao PDA is on the way. “The government has never throught of greater Margao PDA. Some people are trying to create fear in the minds of the people,” he said
 
 Sardesai said that depending on the probe, he won’t hesitate to change the zone from settlement to green zone. 
 
