Do you think that vehicles and heavy industries alone are the culprits that contribute to global warming? Most of the electrical appliances, which are very much a part of every house, are also emitting greenhouse gases (GHG) that are detrimental to the environment in a big way. Speaking to TOI, chairman, School of Energy, Madurai Kamaraj University, Dr K Muthuchezhian said that while conducting a survey on the air pollution in Madurai city in five important junctions, they had also decided to look into other aspects of pollution and study the carbon emission by gadgets that are used in homes. "The research scholars, Dr P Vijayabaskar, R M Rajesh Kumar and V E Shesha Priya, did some ground work and visited houses randomly across the city, to do a survey on the most common gadgets used in almost all the homes. A random sampling was done and they worked out the emission statistics based on the 2011 census,’’ he said. Light bulbs, televisions, washing machines, air conditioners, fans, fridge and induction stoves or electric boilers were common in about 80% of the homes. Better equipped middle class and upper middle class homes, also had gadgets such as laptops, computers, vacuum cleaners, microwaves and electric heaters. According to the 2011 census, Madurai city has about 5.5 lakh houses. They calculated the emission of a single unit of the gadget per day and then calculated the emission levels of the total number of houses. "For example, assuming that each of the 5.5 lakh houses used at least a single 60 watts bulb, the amount of carbon dioxide that these houses would be generating per day is 0.78 kilo tonnes. Television sets, which are powered by 80 to 300 watts of electricity, would generate 4.9 kilo tonnes of carbon dioxide per day," he said. He said that in cities like Madurai, the use of refrigerators was unavoidable even in winter as the outside climate remained warm. If all the houses in the city used refrigerators powered by 200 to 700 watts of electricity, the total carbon dioxide they would emit is 8440 kilo tonnes per day. Air conditioners, powered by 800 to 5000 watts, emit 75.4 kilo tonnes of carbon dioxide per day. "When they are used 24 hours a day, the emission from even 50% of the houses would be high, leave alone the fact that many commercial complexes and offices use them throughout the day,’’ he said.