Thiruvananthapuram: A day-long cleaning campaign titled ‘Killiyaroruma’ to clean up 22km of   will be held on Saturday from 8am to 1pm as a part of ‘Killiyar Mission’. 

 The message of the programme is ‘Killiyar will flow calmly’. Raising this message, the campaign aims to clear the river of filth accumulated over the years and ensure that the river flows freely before monsoon. 
 
 The  , an initiative of Nedumangad block panchayat, muncipality, gramapanchayats such as Aruvikkara, Anadu, Panavoor, Karakulam in association with Haritha Keralam Mission and state government aims at the protection and revival of the Killi River which has a length of 22km. As a part of the project, the committee will also clean canals and streams. 
 
 ‘The mission aims to clean up the Killi River, its main stretches and small streams. The mission also aims to find those who are involved in polluting the river with sewage water and issue notice against them. The cleaning will begin form the origin of river at Karinjaathi moola located at Panavoor panchayat at 8am. It will also cover connecting channels and canals. As many as 10,000 people including Mahatma Gandhi – Ayyankali employment guarantee scheme workers, political leaders, youths, members of residents associations are expected to participate in this day-long cleaning mission to protect the river from its slow death,” said DK Murali MLA,   Mission Chairman. 
 
 Finance minister Thomas Isaac, minister for tourism Kadakampalli Surendran, water resources minister Mathew T Thomas, forest minister K Raju, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, C Divakaran MLA, KS Sabarinath MLA, K Rajagopal MLA and other dignitaries will flag off the campaign at each region.
 
 Killiyar Mission was conceived as a comprehensive scheme to restore the river through a cleaning process followed by planting of tree saplings and preparing coir geo-textile to maintain stability of side walls. Local-level committees were formed as part of the mission and between March 6 to April 2, around 60 collectives were formed.
 
 
