GURUGRAM: The   (H-Rera) on Thursday took up the grievances of homebuyers of  , a residential project in Sector 89, who alleged that they were yet to get   even after missing the 2015 deadline. The panel has directed buyers to submit required details for further hearing.

 Spread over 47 acres, the project — jointly developed by Orris Infrastructure and The 3C Company — was launched in 2011 with a 2015 deadline. However, work has stopped at the site for the last two years, and buyers are not sure when they will get their flats. The project has 2,317   units.
 
 Buyers said they have been filing complaints at different forums, but failed to get any relief, and finally decided to approach H-Rera.
 
 TOI had reported on October 2017 that the department of town and country planning (DTCP) directed the   to submit a timeline for the completion of the project after receiving complaints from homebuyers.
 
 “The project was launched in 2012 with the commitment that possession would be given to buyers within 36 months from the date of the allotment of apartment, i.e. before the end of the year 2015. Despite receiving nearly 90% of the amount, the developers have failed to deliver possession of the apartments on the committed dates,” said Ravi Prasad, president of Greenopolis Welfare Association .
 
 Vijay Raj, a buyer, said they filed complaints with the PMO, Haryana CMO, DTCP, Allottees Grievances Redressal Forum (AGRF) and several other departments, but no concrete action was taken to protect their interests. “We are not sure about the completion of the project based on present circumstances,” Raj said, adding that buyers are looking up to H-Rera to impose exemplary penalty and punishment.
 
 Buyers alleged that out of a total of 28 towers, only four towers are near completion, while the rest are at different stages of construction. “Concerned about our investments, a group of homebuyers visited the site and realised that a big nullah (drain) is bifurcating the project. The developers didn’t tell us about the existence of the nullah in the middle of the project. High tension power lines also pass through it,” said Lalit Khanna, another buyer.
 
 In their complaint submitted to the real estate regulator, buyers alleged that the developers collected external development charges (EDC) and internal development charges (IDC) from them, but the amount was not deposited with the government.
 
 H-Rera officials said the buyers were asked to submit more details about the project, following which the developers will be asked to submit their reply. “The authority will pronounce its order after hearing all the parties,” an official said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts by TOI, the developers could not be reached for a comment.
 
 
