Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has suspended DGP   for publishing his autobiography without getting its approval.

 The suspension order was issued by chief secretary   on Tuesday, upon the instructions of chief minister  .
 
 The matter has been under the government’s consideration for some time and, in the meanwhile, he was suspended, pending inquiry, for his remarks against the government in the backdrop of the Ockhi cyclone relief efforts.
 
 The IPS officer’s autobiography contains remarks on cases that were sub-judice, including the Pattoor land-grab case, nepotism case involving former industries minister E P Jayarajan and bar bribery case involving former finance minister and KC(M) leader K M Mani.
 
 A committee headed by additional chief secretary (home and vigilance)   and consisting law secretary   and former public relations department director   had examined the service-story titled ‘Sravaukalkkoppam Neenthumbol’.
 
 The committee had said that in the book the officer made prejudiced comments against ongoing cases which were in various stages of investigation.
 
 The committee had found that his actions violated certain sections of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966, and All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968.
 
 As per Section 3(c) of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966, no member of a police force should communicate with the press or publish any book letter or other document without the sanction of the Centre unless such a publication is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character.
 
 The penalty prescribed in the act for the violation is an imprisonment of two years, a fine of Rs 2,000 or both.
 
 Also, the service conduct rules say that an all-India services officer need not obtain a previous sanction only if the subject matter of the book or contribution is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific character.
 
 The committee was constituted following a recommendation by former chief secretary   who had noted that a detailed evaluation of the book was required since it contains pages which cannot be categorised as purely literary or artistic.
 
 The recommendation was submitted to the chief minister who then removed the charges under sections of the Police Forces (Restriction of Rights) Act, 1966.
 
 The chief minister, however, retained the disciplinary charges against the officer and ordered his suspension.
 
