The last two years have been a coming-of-age period for   in terms of his film career. He has chosen roles that have tested the actor in him -- be it in Sunday Holiday, Kaattu or his latest release  , which had him take up an “intimidating” character that he says he had been trying to avoid since the debacle of  .
 
 Asif maintains, however, that he doesn't believe he has become a successful actor and is yet to pass that phase where he doubts his choices. In a candid chat, the actor talks to us about why the theme of BTech is relevant to today's youth, how he rates his brother Askar as an actor and if fatherhood would influence his roles in the future.
 
 
 
 Honestly, the film was in the pipeline for almost six years. During my wedding in 2013, I introduced Mridul to my wife as my next movie’s director. However, we weren’t able to convert the concept into a brilliant script even after drafting two versions. Finally, scriptwriter Ramakrishna J Kullur was able to nail it down after a few meetings. That said, I think we were fortunate to release the movie at the right time. If we had done it earlier or later, it wouldn't have had this impact.
 
 We also wanted the subject to be told through youngsters and their friendships, otherwise it would have become too political. In my hometown Thodupuzha, we stay in a colony where there are Hindus and Muslims and we have always lived in harmony. But now, if Hindus distribute laddoos during Nabidinam, it becomes news. These realisations are what prompted us to take up this subject.
 
 
 
 I am someone who got intimidated after doing such a role in Asuravithu. Back then, I was excited to sign a project that   had backed out from. But when I watched the movie in theatres, I realised that it wasn't something that I could pull off. Since then I have been scared to do heroic roles. But Mridul has been a close friend and as a technician, he has always given me confidence. When he narrated the character, there were junctures where I tried to scale down the heroic elements. But at every step, he convinced me it was needed. Till the movie released, I was apprehensive if people would say that I had spoiled the character but thankfully it came out well.
 
 
 
 Never! I was extremely shy. When I was in Class 10, I was a school leader mostly because of my friends. But I have never felt that I possessed any leadership skills. But apart from being a leader, I have done all kinds of mischief when I was in college.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Taking a stand has got to do with what you have seen and grown with. Irrespective of how long you have been in the industry, to be able to say your opinion out loud is something everyone must do. I don’t believe in regretting about not having said what I wanted when I had to. I have always been brave to say what I believe is right.
 
 
 
 A lot of people ask me about the advice that I gave him when he entered the industry. Frankly, I don’t believe I have become so successful to dole out any advice. Most of the time, I have doubted my choice of films. All that I have told him that the whichever film he does, he should give his 100%. I am yet to see his latest film Kamuki because I feel awkward watching him on screen.
 
 Also, I am someone who entered films because of my passion to act. I myself realise I have been part of so many films only when people remind me. So, when another person from my family has also come into the industry, I am taking my time to accept that.
 
 
 
 Perhaps. When he was in Class XII, Take Off’s director Mahesh Narayanan told me that he had a subject in mind that needed a senior actor and fresh face. He had seen a few of Askar’s photos and asked if he can narrate the story to him and do an audition. I was confused because if I asked Askar to go ahead, both of them shouldn’t feel later it was a wrong decision. Also, if I said no, he shouldn’t think that it was an opportunity wasted. So, I told Maheshettan to forget he ever asked me about Askar and to talk to him directly. That’s the rule I have always followed. But if he gets an address because of me, I am only glad.
 
 
 
 Omanakuttan was Rohith’s first film and yet he handled it well and probably its only drawback was its length. When he narrated the story of Iblis, I was thrilled because it was again out of his comfort zone. It’s fresh and yet not many would dare to attempt such a subject. It’s the kind of film that I liked to watch when I was young. It’s an out and out fantasy and if it works, it will be a different cinematic experience.
 
 
 
 Ever since I watched Aniyathipraavu, I always wanted to do an out-and-out romantic film that the current youth would love to watch. That’s why I signed Mandaram. A lot of people ask me why I work with debutants mostly and the prime reason is a lot of senior directors I want to work with haven’t called me. Also, I love working with people who have the same level of passion as me to make movies. The good thing about debutant directors are that they give their all for their first film.
 
 While shooting for Mandaaram, there were days when Vijesh had only shot for five scenes because he wanted exactly what he had in mind. I had asked him if we needed this level of perfection. But what he told me was that this is his first movie and he could only do it once.
 
 
 
 The past few months I have busy with the films and only last week I finally got home to Thodupuzha to spend time with my wife and children. A few days ago, I was getting ready to go to dub Mandaaram but both my kids were up and waiting for me. I had to delay the dubbing to spend time with them. It’s a totally different phase I am going through. I have always prioritised movies. But now I have taken a three-month break just to be with my family.
 
 
 
 Not really. The movies I select are entirely my decision. I don’t think my family would influence that choice in any way. People in the industry still think I am that young guy who is just a few films old. During the recent AMMA show, when I was running around, they told me they still couldn’t believe I was a father of two kids.
 
