Gautam Gambhir's love for the uniformed forces is not restricted to his tweets alone. From attending events by the paramilitary forces to sponsoring the education of martyrs’ children, he contributes because he "feels for it". The Delhi cricketer, a "true and proud Indian" as he calls himself, says he would have definitely joined the Army had cricket not come calling. "That is my first love and that is what gives me goosebumps," he says. 

  At India Gate ahead of January 26, watching the   Parade rehearsals, he remembered how it used to fascinate him. "It is a kind of celebration which you always look forward to," he said. The cricketer spoke to us about why we need to understand what our men and women in uniform go through, and why his support for them is not for any rewards. "I am doing this because it comes from within," he told us. Excerpts:
 
  
 
 Always. I played Ranji Trophy in school, and had I not been a cricketer, I would have definitely been in the Army, as that is my first love, and that is what gives me goosebumps. Whether you call it regret, or something else, I couldn’t join the armed forces, but I have always loved action, and the real action is when you are a part of the armed forces. Every day, I regret not being a part of the armed forces.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 I don’t think that you need to be a brand ambassador to contribute. Contribution comes from within, and anyone can contribute. I don’t do this to become a brand ambassador. If it gives you happiness, you don’t need a position to do it. And the defence forces do not need a brand ambassador. The moment you say that they need a brand ambassador, I think there is something wrong with the country. They themselves are the real heroes, and people should follow them instead of having brand ambassadors from other fields, because a uniform is something you earn. It should not be given to you just for becoming the brand ambassador. 
 
  
  NCC cadets Shivani, Namita, Himanshi Dahiya, Simran Kapoor, Surabhi Shukla, Manisha Dangi, Hemcy Sharma, Malika Pandey from different girls’ colleges in DU pose with   amid Republic Day preparations at Rajpath
 
 
  
 
 I think the only way to respect the forces is when you go through what they go through. Sitting in AC rooms or our offices, we will never know what grind they go through. The only way you can experience it is through military training. There is nothing wrong with making military training compulsory, especially for one year straight after school. NCC is fine, but the real test is military training, and you could do a short commission service, which is there for one year, like in (OTA) Chennai. People can join college after one year of military training. If something wrong happens in the country, at least you are prepared to join the armed forces.
 
  
 
 It is a good initiative, I haven’t spoken to anyone on that front. We are trying to do what we could do with our foundation for the children of martyrs. Bharat Ke Veer is a great initiative where people come and contribute in whatever way, and it goes to the right people. 
 
  
 
 Yes, we are helping them in their education, and hopefully, we can make it bigger. We have bigger plans, this is just the start. This is the most basic thing you can do for them. You can’t get their parents back, the least we can do is help them achieve something by supporting their education. It is something that is close to my heart, helping them achieve their dreams.
 
  
 
 People have been talking about the defence forces and trying to support them, and this is a very encouraging sign. People are more aware about what our soldiers go through than a few years ago. Earlier, people took them for granted. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 It is very unfortunate. If people can be divided on the national anthem issue, you can understand where we are heading. If you still feel ‘why I have to stand in a movie theatre’, or ‘why should I be forced to stand for the national anthem’ - I think this is absolutely not debatable. This country has given us so much, if you can’t give 52 seconds for a national anthem, then we should think about the people standing at Siachen, protecting us at the borders. They too can tomorrow say that we don’t want to do anything for you guys, because you can’t stand for 52 seconds. The most unfortunate thing in the last one year is that there is no issue in the country which we are united about. There will always be people who try to be on the other side of nationalism, or what they feel is ‘forced nationalism’.
 
  
 
 Try and contribute in any way I can, and I am all for standing for 52 seconds for the national anthem wherever it is played. It has to come from within, how much you respect the country and anthem. 
 
  
 
 You have got to respect the national anthem. There should be no debate about it. If I can’t respect the national anthem, what else can I expect? You could say that it is not compulsory to call August 15 Independence Day, or January 26 Republic Day. For me, there is no debate on whether we should stand up for the national anthem or not.
 
 
 The cricketer also spoke to the NCC cadets from different girls’ colleges in DU, who had many questions for him. Hemcy Sharma from   asked Gambhir what keeps him motivated when things don’t go as anticipated in a match. "The hunger to win," he replied, "That hunger is very important for me. Results do matter. People might say that it is about your preparation, etc, but for me, after a match when I go back to my dressing room, I want to go back to a happy dressing room. After a loss, it can never be a happy room because there are emotions involved in everything we do."
 
  Himanshi from   asked him about Zohra, the daughter of slain J&K policeman Abdul Rashid, whose education he is sponsoring. He replied, "I wanted to join the forces when I was in Class XII. The only way I thought I can help the armed forces now is by helping their children in their education. It is just not about the Army or CRPF, it is about all the forces. I hope we can try and help more children with their education."
 
  Surbhi Shukla from Miranda House asked the cricketer how he deals with pressure. "If I have genuinely given it my all, whether things work out or not is secondary. If the results do not come, it does frustrate you, but truly believing is the only thing that keeps you going," he replied.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
