KOTTAYAM: In a first, the   ( ) has decided to give a name to one of its buses after realizing the intimate relationship some regular riders had with it. That is not all. The authorities have been so impressed with the attachment that the commuters developed with the bus that they also decided to resume a service they stopped. 

 It all started with a phone call. The call was made by a young girl to the Controlling Inspector of   depot complaining that the KSRTC bus which had been running on the   route for the past four years has suddenly been stopped. 
 
 The call became viral over the past week and was widely shared on WhatsApp thanks to the girl's chumminess with the bus, which was expressed in her words during her conversation with the Controlling Inspector. Starting out by venting her disappointment over stopping the bus service, she went on to explain how important the bus was to its regular commuters.
 
 "It was our 'Chunk' bus," she said resorting to the local lingo to signify the closeness. "We passengers are all sad. Please give us back our bus," the girl pleaded to the Controlling Inspector. After the sound clip started doing the rounds, KSRTC MD Tomin Thachankary too came to know about it. In a letter, he appreciated the Controlling Inspector for patiently listening to the passenger and ordered to send the bus back to the Erattupetta bus depot. 
 
 Quite aptly, the bus has been named "Chunk" and has the word written over a heart sign on all the four sides.
 
 It was the conductor of the bus Sameer K A, who first revealed the anguish of the commuters after the authorities decided to stop the service. In a   post, which appeared on the very same day the bus was shifted to Aluva depot, he had written: "All the passengers, including several students, have shared their sadness with me."
 
 He also mentioned the girl, a college student, who made the phone call. The ardent fan of the bus has sought anonymity though her call has become viral. 
 
 "She comes from an orthodox family and is scared to come before the public, he said in his post. 
 
 The girl, along with Sameer and few other passengers, have sought an appointment with the MD on Tuesday.
 
 
