KOCHI: As the evening sun shone through the 400-year-old Belgian chandeliers at   of  , a minyan held a prayer after a long time at the refurbished synagogue, thanks to   who decided to get the synagogue renovated.

 One of the oldest synagogues in the city, Kadavumbhagom Synagogue, however, didn’t receive the recognition it ought to until the Swami came to know about the antiquated, unused structure, which was under the private ownership of Kadavumbhagom Synagogue Trust.
 
 “It was through a mutual friend that I got to know the Swami and he gladly decided to fund the renovation of the synagogue after seeing the structure,” said  , caretaker of the synagogue.
 
 “Without minyan, which is a quorum of 10 Jewish adults required for certain religious obligations, a congregational prayer cannot be held. That many Jewish members don’t reside around this synagogue and so we weren’t able to hold the prayers here regularly,” Josephai said.
 
 For the opening of the renovated structure, an honorary ceremony for the Swami, founder of Shri Vishnu Mohan Foundation, was organized, for which a group came from Israel.
 
 Shrihariprasad Swami, who donated for the cause of the development of the synagogue, is, however, not yet done with his plans to uplift the structure.
 
 “I want to change these 10 windows’ railings into brass ones, like how it was in the olden days. I also want to hold a session here to uncover the hidden facets of history associated with the Jews in  , their contributions to the society and more, to reconnect and integrate them more amongst us,” Swami said.
 
 At the entrance of the synagogue is a space which used to be a classroom for Jewish kids. A museum is being planned to be set up in this space.
 
 “After 1948, when most of the Jews left for Israel, there were no kids left to use the classroom following which it was closed down. Now, with the help of B’nai B’rith International, Washington, plans are being made to renovate the structure and make it to an International  ,” said Beith Kennesseth, one of the few Jews who are in the city.
 
 
