COIMBATORE: Construction of a   on one of the most congested roads in the city,  , is expected to commence soon, with the state highways department getting ready to submit a detailed project report (DPR) within two months.

 In an attempt to reduce traffic congestion in the heart of the city and to help commuters reach the airport without being caught in traffic snarls, the state government had proposed the 8.5-kilometre flyover from   to SITRA-Kalapatti Junction in 2015. The work to prepare the DPR had commenced in September 2017.
 
 “The department has already completed traffic and topographic survey of the road. But, we had to collect soil samples from about 170 locations along the Avinashi Road to check the bearing capacity of soil,” a highways department official said. 
 
 While soil samples from more than 130 places till the   were sent for testing, those from the remaining places would be completed within a week, the official said. The samples are tested at the   (GCT) on Thadagam Road.
 
 The test results will be sent to the consultant for designing. “An estimate would be prepared based on the design and the entire process is expected to be completed within two months. Earlier, the deadline to submit the DPR was fixed for this March. But we extended it till June due to the prevailing traffic congestion on the road,” the official said. As a result, the process that commenced in November, is yet to complete. 
 
 The designing work will start from next week, the official said. “Based on the soil testing report, factors like height and width of the pillars, number of pillars, type and depth of the foundation would be decided. The plan is to have ramps to and from the flyover at about four junctions. We will also decide on the location for service roads and ramps,” he told TOI.
 
 “For now, we have created a tentative design, approximately determining the grid and length of the ramps and where to dig for pillars,” the official added.
 
 The cost estimation of the project is expected to be over Rs 950crore. The state government has allotted about Rs 3.5 crores for the preparation of DPR.
 
 
