NEW DELHI: The potential of the print medium is set to be demonstrated again as the   has brought back its one-of-a-kind competition — Power of Print — that aims to bring out the best of print creativity and make it work for a company or cause.

 
 When asked about the scope of the exercise that will bring together creative agencies to work on Swiss food giant Nestlé’s live brief #Help-ParentsKnowGoodFood, top professionals from the creative world said, print lends gravitas and is the right vehicle to raise consciousness around issues that society needs to act upon.
 
 “Currently, we are facing a crisis of information overload, due to a steady stream of videos, tweets,   posts, not to mention interesting videos on You-Tube at the click of a button,” said Rashi Goel, head of consumer communications,  . “The consumer is overfed on information and saturated. This presents a golden opportunity for the print media to take a stance on being the harbinger of credible news.”
 
 Josy Paul, chairman and chief creative officer, BBDO India, said the printed word still carries that authenticity – it’s the ink of truth. “The other great thing about print is that we can tear the news! And stick it on our board. It’s like capturing a moment in time, for all time. It’s not lost in the stream,” he said.
 
 Launched in 2017, Power of Print’s first edition saw Nestlé come on board as partner with a brief to send more girls to school through the #Educatethegirlchild initiative. The response saw 417 creative agencies battling it out for top honours with 823 entries. It resulted in the Times Group winning a Gold Abby at GoaFest 2018.
 
 This time, the print ads will be about the need to educate parents about good food so that they make informed decisions, while choosing the right nutrition for their kids. Advertising and brand gurus said the result of the competition will have a far reaching impact.
 
 “We believe, when it comes to optimizing return on brand building investment, it is the right combination of media touchpoint and message that matters most,” said Goel. “We believe that the print medium is relevant for building instant reach build-up of announcement led messages — precisely why most new products in the market today leverage print to announce their launch.”
 
 To back their assumption, the experts recounted examples of recent print advertising that took the world by storm. While  , founder & creative director, Tomorrow Creative Lab, said KFC’s latest ‘FKC, we’re sorry’ when the fast-food chain ran out of chicken in the UK recently, was an impactful print campaign, Rashi said #Welcome-BackMaggi where print (in this case Times of India) was leveraged to communicate and most importantly celebrate the comeback of   noodles — among other things —the Times of India masthead was changed to communicate that Times of India is welcoming Maggi back.
 
