LUCKNOW: UP’s top retired bureaucrats — including former chief secretary Jawed Usmani and former   chief Rohit Nandan — and UP Lokayukta Justice   have crossed swords with the state government over change of their residential entitlement from premium type-6 bungalows in posh Gautampalli area in the city to a notch-lower type-5 houses.

 While Nandan, who is currently chairman of UP State Public Service Tribunal, and Justice Mishra have moved court on the government decision, Usmani has sent a representation to the state government to reconsider its decision. The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court put a stay on the decision on December 4 last year.
 
 Besides Usmani, who is UP chief information commissioner, former principal secretary to CM, Rakesh Garg (now chairman of  ), former Agriculture Production Commissioner   (now chairman, State Finance Commission) and Justice (retd)  , chairman state human rights commission, have also sent their representation to the state government.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 After the state government changed his residential entitlement from type-6 to type-5 bungalow on November 14 last year, Nandan took legal recourse.
 
 In his petition filed with the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court, Nandan pleaded that the house (22, Gautampalli) was allotted to him on May 5, 2017 by the present state government which cancelled it just six months later.
 
 Nandan’s counsels Manish Kumar and Kritika Ranjan have told the HC that the petitioner was heading a tribunal, which is also a court, and therefore the allotment rule would not apply on him.
 
 While staying the government order to change entitlement of house, a bench of Justice  , in its order of December 4, 2017, noted that while a number of houses are in occupation of chairmen and vicechairmen of various statutory commissions, the petitioner was singled out for cancellation of allotment.
 
 The court has asked principal secretary (estate department) to file a personal affidavit and come up with a list of type-6 houses in government pool in Lucknow and Allahabad along with the names of their occupants.
 
 “The matter has been brought to the court and is sub judice,” Nandan’s counsel Manish Kumar told TOI. In case of Lokayukta Sanjay Mishra, too, a bench of Justice Vivek Srivastava on December 15 noted that the matter has become “infructuous and hence, the matter is consigned to records.'' The issue began with a state government enactment of September 16, 2016 which categorized allotment of government residence to officials, journalists, societies and members of accredited organizations.
 
 According to Section 23 of house allotment Act, type-6 house are to be allotted to ministers, former CMs, justices of high courts, senior officers, officers of higher judicial services and trusts working in UP. The Act says that chairmen/members of various statutory commissions under the state government will be entitled to type-5 house.
 
 The enactment following a Supreme Court order of August 1, 2016 which upheld that the allotment of government bungalows to former CMs was “bad in law and they should hand over possession.’’ The SC had also noted, “a statute which confers public property on private citizens, who are no longer serving any public function, would undermine trust and confidence in the institutions of government.’’ The six, whose entitlement has been changed, are at present living in their type-6 houses.
 
 
