LUCKNOW: Close to 3% of all tuberculosis (TB) cases in the world are reported from UP. Statistics from World Health Organisation show that more than 1 crore new TB cases are reported in a year globally. Of these, 28 lakh are from India alone. The figure includes 3 lakh cases from UP—which is more than the total TB burden of some countries in the world in absolute numbers.

 A look at WHO’s list of top 10 high TB burden countries proves the point. Against 3.1 lakh notified TB cases in UP, Angola, which tops the list, had just 60,916 cases while Bangladesh, at number 2, had 2.2 lakh cases.
 
 
 In fact, if UP’s unreported cases were taken into account, the state could compete with China which is home to 7.8 lakh cases. According to the health department,, over 5 lakh TB cases in UP which go to private sector are not notified.
 
 The data speaks for the importance of the UP vs TB campaign launched jointly by Union health minister JP Nadda and UP CM Yogi Adityanath on World TB Day on Saturday. Keeping the burden in mind, Nadda said, “TB mitigation in UP is extremely important if India was to end TB by 2025.” Health minister UP, Sidharth Nath Singh assured that UP was committed to end TB.
 
 Vice-president of the national task force on revised national   Prof Rajendra Prasad said, “UP’s role in India’s TB campaign will help in improving the performance of the south Asian region too.”
 
 Nadda, while listing out the number of initiatives taken to accelerate the rate of TB reduction in India, also cornered previous governments for their failure to end TB. “Efforts are being made to eradicate TB for the past 50 years. But it took the arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to wage a war against the disease that kills two Indians every three minutes,” he said.
 
 State TB officer   assured that UP was on the fast track to fight TB.
 
 “Instead of waiting for patients to approach doctors, health teams are going on the field to screen TB patients. This will largely curtail the number of missing or hidden cases. We are the only state to have covered all districts in active case finding activity. We reached out to over 1.2 crore people and screened over 9,000  , the lion’s share on the national scale,” he claimed.
 
