KOLHAPUR: Veteran film actor   wondered why only some film-makers’ movies see   and questioned the argument of cinematic liberty in film content. He added that none of his films faced any controversy over the years, though some had bold statements.

 The actor known for his straightforwardness didn’t mince words while talking about the quality of films made now and his opinion about the   controversy. He was in   for promotion of his upcoming film Aapla Manus, during which, he spoke exclusively with TOI on various topics.
 
 Patekar recalled that Marathi people were silent when Sanjay Leela Bhansali movie ‘Bajirao Mastani’ was released, but it was a “bad film. The Bajirao we had in our minds, don’t you think it was disregarded? There was no controversy for a single film of mine over the years. How come only your cinema comes under radar every time? Kashibai dances, Padmavati dances in your films. What kind of cinematic liberty are you taking about?” he said. 
 
 “If I am a responsible actor, director or producer, don’t you think public opinion and their sentiments should be taken in consideration? Even my film   had bold statements, but it never saw any controversy,” he said, adding, “Why only a few people’s film sees protests and debates? We have self-censored an important scene from our upcoming Marathi film Aapla Manus, considering the current issues in society.” 
 
 He also added that cinema needs censorship as it has a large reach. “Cinema can influence a mob psychology and anti-social elements can take advantage of it. We also need to make sure that the people who are on the censor board are well-qualified for the post,” he said.
 
 Recalling his experience of working with   in the movie   Bombay, he wondered whether they would be able to make the film in today’s conditions. He added that he had lost his cool when Nair was trying to show the extreme poverty and leprosy patients in some scenes. “Why we need to show only poor side of the country at the international level. We have had argument back then. Do we have only poverty to showcase and sell to the world? You need to anticipate the consequences of your actions,” he said. 
 
 Patekar, who earlier used to work in theatre, recalled that his good friend actress   had forced him to join films. He said that the quality of cinema has changed quite a bit over the years and it is doing well in terms of productions. 
 
 The actor, however, does not have a very good experience of the international film festivals. “I don’t like intellectual cinema, I am a person of simple tastes. I watched a few films and those were very bad ones. There may be two films which were good; others were internationally-acclaimed films, which I could not understand,” he said. 
 
 Patekar, who runs Naam Foundation that has been working for widows of farmers who end lives due to agrarian crises, said that he first and foremost looks for social relevance of the film before signing it. The Foundation has received Rs 60 crore through donations. 
 
 He added that people need to come together as a society and make sure “politics or politicians do not come in our way. Otherwise, caste and religion is used as a weapon for the self-good by these (politicians) people. The youths should learn to identify this strategy of theirs (politicians) and not be a victim of false claims,” Patekar said. 
 
 
