KOLKATA: Though the entire city had been watching the Commonwealth team table tennis finals, when the Indian women’s team clinched the first team gold at Oxford Studios, Gold Coast, in  , the loudest cheer came from  , where ace player   lives. 
 
 While Manika Batra was the architect of India’s historic win, the perfect pairing of Mouma Das and Madhurika Patkar made it possible to win the crucial doubles rubber (3-1)against Zhou and Mengyu Yu for a 2-1 lead in the final. Ever since the win, Das’s husband Kanchan Chakraborty has been receiving endless congratulatory calls. 
 “How did so many people suddenly manage to get my number?” Chakraborty wondered. “She was heartbroken after failing to win any medal in the Olympics. She can now sleep peacefully,” he added. 
 
 
  
 President  , too, tweeted his congratulations to the “golden girls” for bagging India’s first ever gold in women’s team table tennis. “It is a fantastic team that she has led to the Gold Coast as the senior-most member. There is an amazing understanding among the team-mates. Their unity put them way ahead of others,” Chakraborty said. Prior to the final, the Singapore women’s team had never lost in the   since the sport’s induction in the Games in 2002. 
 
 The walls of her modest flat are adorned with photographs of Das’s achievements. “You will not find her trophies here. They are stacked at her parents’ house,” said Chakraborty, who looked exhausted and emotionally drained after spending sleepless nights ahead of the match. The duo got married in 2012. Her parents Asit and Rita Das, who came to their son-in-law’s house to catch the match live, were relived. “We are on our way to the doctor. But the team’s victory has cured us of our ailment by 50%. We are now going to the doctor because of the appointment,” one of them said. Immediately after the victory, almost the entire population of Madhyamgram descended on the roads cheering Das’s name. 
 
 “We are planning a gala reception when she returns,” said Ashok Laha, a member of a local club. In the housing complex, Mouma is equally popular among children. “She is a role model for our children. Many of our kids have started playing table tennis after seeing her success,” said Kabita Roy, a neighbour. Jay Dhar, Das’s favourite sweet-shop owner, was ecstatic. “She is such a humble woman. I wish her more of such success. She has made Madhaymgram proud and have given us an opportunity to celebrate it like Durga Puja.”
