ITANAGAR: Prime Minister   on Thursday hailed the patriotic nature of Arunachalees even as China voiced its "firm opposition" to his visit to the Himalayan state which it claims as part of  . 

 Modi said the people of   greet each other with 'Jai Hind' more than other parts of the country. "If you travel to Arunachal Pradesh for a day, you will hear more Jai Hinds than you will hear after travelling the entire country for a week. This is the highest Hindi speaking state in the entire northeast and people of the country cannot witness sunrise without looking at Arunachal Pradesh," said the PM.
 
 Modi was in Arunachal Pradesh on Thursday to dedicate the state civil secretariat building to the nation, lay the foundation stone of the academic block of the Tomo Riba Institute of Health and Medical Science and inaugurate the   state convention centre. 
 
 Criticizing the UPA government at a public rally at Indira Gandhi Park, Modi said, "The former Prime Minister could not come to Arunachal because of his immense workload but I am such a PM who cannot stay without meeting you all. Earlier, road and bridge projects used to wait for inauguration, but I have directed state governments not to wait for inauguration and utilize public facilities on completion."
 
 "My visit to Arunachal Pradesh is related to three key projects. The secretariat is already functional and this was a good step taken by state government. Also, this convention centre is more than a building, it is a vibrant centre that will further the aspirations of Arunachal Pradesh. There will be conferences and cultural activities that will draw government officials and private companies," he said.
 
 Clad in traditional tribal attire, Modi also announced renaming of the New Delhi-Naharlagun Express to 'Arunachal Express', besides increasing its frequency from one day a week to twice. "The new train will connect the people of the state with mainland India," he added. The train had been inaugurated by the PM during his visit in 2015.
 
 Modi also said his government attaches special importance to the northeast region, with ministers and officials visiting on a regular basis. "We must go to all states and that is why I came to   for a Northeastern Council meeting and an important meeting related to agriculture was held in Sikkim," he said.
 
 The Prime Minister planted a sapling of Bael (Aegle marmelos-Stone  ) in Raj Bhavan lawn. He said the NDA government is taking up the Ayushman Bharat Yojana in a mission mode to provide quality and affordable healthcare to approximately 50 crore people. "The scale of this scheme is unparalleled and it will bring a paradigm shift in our health sector. It is time to give India a healthcare system that makes quality treatment affordable within a limit of 5 lakh per person," he said.
 
 Modi asked the state government to frame a new health policy and to work for attracting private investment in the health sector. He said the 2018-19 Budget proposed to set up wellness centres in 22,000 panchayat blocks throughout the country with all minimum medical facilities.
 
 "The Centre has saved Rs 54,000 crore through Aadhaar-enabled direct benefit transfer of about 400 government schemes," Modi said on his government's 'crusade' against corruption. Lauding Pema Khandu for his support in the fight against corruption, Modi complimented the chief minister for the "wonderful work he is doing." The PM said his government has sanctioned road projects worth 18,000 crore for Arunachal Pradesh. "Digital connectivity is going on in mission mode in the state," he added. 
 
 
