AMBALA: In a double   case, the district police have nabbed a household servant Harish from Jagadhari railway station for killing his boss’s wife and mother on May 17. Vinod Sharma, a resident of Hasanpur village in Naraingarh district, informed police that his mother and wife have been brutally murdered at his home. Harish’s aide, a 13-year-old juvenile, was arrested on May 18.

 Harish had been working as a household servant at Vinod’s house for the past eight months and also stayed in the premise of his residence. In his complaint, Vinod said, “On May 17, Harish and a friend of his brutally killed my wife and mother. After murdering them, they fled with valuable items.”
 
 After receiving the information, the Naraingarh police on the orders of superintendent police of   constituted teams to raid at two suspected hideouts. The teams were successful in nabbing Harish from Jagadhari railway station in Yamunanagar within a few hours of receiving the information. The juvenile accused, a resident of the same village, was presented before the Naraingarh police by his parents on May 18 after which he was presented before the juvenile court that sent him to juvenile observation centre. 
 
 Vinod is a drawing teacher at Government Model School, Kheda in Saha block of the district. A father of a son and a daughter, he was about to get his son married and had invested in some jewellery for the same. Harish knew where the jewellery was kept.
 
 On May 17, following the daily routine, while Vinod and his son went out on their work, his daughter went for her coaching classes. On the same day at around 11am, when Vinod returned home for some personal work, he noticed bloodstains from gallery to the drawing room of the house. On opening the door of the drawing room, he saw bodies of his 75-year-old mother Rajbala and his 45-year-old wife Suman Devi lying in a pool of blood.
 
 Meanwhie, Harish, along with the juvenile aide, were present in a room at the backside of the house with a hoe in his hand and a bagpack, when Vinod witnessed the dead bodies. When the two accused saw Vinod, they both pushed him hard and fled from the house. Vinod dashed inside the house and learnt that all the valuable items including jewellery and cash were missing from the wardrobe and the room was in a topsy-turvy state.
 
 Naraingarh police station head officer, sub-inspector (SI) Suresh Kumar said, “We have registered a case under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Harish and his aide. Harish was presented before the court on Saturday and as per the court orders, a police remand of three days has been sanctioned.”
 
 SI Suresh Kumar said, “During the three-day remand, we will investigate the sequence of the incident and recover the robbed jewellery and cash from the accused Harish. So far, we have not recovered anything from the accused.”
 
 
