Chandigarh: The UT administration has set the ball rolling for the construction of the fourth building — Governor’s Palace/Museum of Knowledge — at the  .

 The Governor’s Palace is the only building in the original plan of Capitol Complex that has not been constructed since the last 66 years. The administration has formed a committee to explore the possibilities of constructing the building and prepare a proposal. The committee would be steered by Chandigarh College of Architecture. The decision has been taken by the heritage committee headed by UT adviser Parimal Rai.
 
 Le   had initially proposed Governor’s Palace, which was shelved by the then Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, as it did “not go with the democratic set-up. Le Corbusier later proposed Museum of Knowledge, which also failed to see light of the day. Le Corbusier had prepared designs for both the buildings.
 
 Over the years, there have been deliberations and discussion over completing the Capitol Complex. However, experts have not been able to arrive at a conclusion whether the design for Museum of Knowledge should be built at the earmarked site or Governor’s Palace be built. The experts have also not been able to define the usage of the building.
 
 Realising the dream of Le Corbusier would be an uphill task for the local administration. Capitol Complex was declared a Unesco world heritage site on July 17 in 2016. After the UT administration made unsuccessful attempts to get the Unesco tag for it since 2006, the complex was included in the transnational dossier on the works of Le Corbusier, submitted by Paris-based Fondation Le Corbusier to Unesco on behalf of seven countries, including France, Argentina, Japan, Belgium, Switzerland and Germany.
 
 Some of the experts have expressed their apprehension that the heritage status will come in way of constructing the building. According to rules, if the basic characteristics of a site for which it was included in the World Heritage list is not maintained, the site is put on the list of “world heritage in danger”.
 
 A senior official of the administration said the committee will take up the matter with the Unesco and Fondation Le Corbusier for completing the building. The committee in collaboration Fondation Le Corbusier will take on call on whether to construct Governor’s Palace or Museum of Knowledge.
 
 Smallest Of 4 buildings
 
 Space at the north-eastern tip of the complex, almost touching the foothills, had been earmarked for the Governor’s Palace. It was to be smallest of the four buildings. Le Corbusier had proposed sunken garden adjoining the palace and a grid garden, with resemblance to a Mughal Gardens, on the other side. The proposal was shot down by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Le Corbusier later proposed Museum of Knowledge, which also failed to see light of the day.
 
 ABOUT CAPITOL COMPLEX
 
 Capitol Complex is considered as one of the finest works of architect Le Corbusier. It comprises three main buildings — the secretariat, legislative assembly and Punjab and Haryana high court. It also has the Open-Hand Monument and a memorial to the martyrs of freedom struggle.
 
 BEAUTIFICATION PLAN
 
 The UT heritage committee has accorded approval to the beautification plan of the Capitol Complex. Under the plan, all the four water bodies inside the Capitol Complex will be repaired, for which a budget of Rs 2 crore has been earmarked. Landscaping will also be done and new signages installed.
 
 
