BENGALURU: A pitched battle is unfolding in one of the oldest constituencies of Bengaluru city. With two biggies in the fray, Shivajinagar assembly constituency will see one of the most gripping contests in the state.

 Sitting   MLA and minister R Roshan   is locking horns with BJP’s senior leader Katta Subramanya Naidu. Two others, including Aam Aadmi Party candidate Ayub Khan, are in the fray.
 
 
 
  
 
 Baig, a seasoned player in Shivajinagar, had won in 1985 on a Janata Party ticket. He lost the next one in 1989 but has remained unvanquished since. Poll pundits, however, say this poll election reminds them of the 1989 contest.
 
 Shivajinagar has a majority of Urdu-speaking voters, besides those speaking Tamil and Kannada. Spread over seven wards, the constituency is a mix of upscale areas and ghettos and some old markets. People belonging to economically backward sections form the majority and problems related to sanitation, water and bad roads are persistent.
 
 While minister Baig claims he has changed the face of his constituency, his rival cries foul claiming Shivajinagar is coming apart.
 
 “I am sure I will score a hat-trick from Shivajinagar this time. My USP is I am easily accessible to everyone. My work will hold me in good stead. I have managed to get a medical college at   in the heart of the constituency,” Baig asserts.
 
 “He has been a minister for long. What has he done for the development of the people there? Everything is chaotic in this constituency,” says PC Mohan,   MP from Bengaluru Central on a campaign trail with Naidu.
 
 Muslims are in a majority, but the BJP candidate remains confident of victory. “As an MLA and minister, Naidu had helped people here without any difference of religion,” said Kasim Jani Khureshi, a beef trader.
 
 However, Naidu is fighting for survival as the outcome will make or break his political career. “There is no last chapter for any politician,” says Naidu.
 
 While JD(S) has fielded Mastan Ali, Ayub Khan of  , a local autorickshaw driver, is attempting to make his mark as a commoner.
 
