A confluence of the Indian classical dance form of  , English narrative and a specially-designed piece of Carnatic music — 
  is a subtle yet intense dance-drama performance by dancer-theatreperson   and her guru, Bharatanatyam exponent  .

  The piece is based on 17th century   poetry that is highly erotic, sensual as well as progressive in nature. These verses narrate stories of the courtesans — about how bold and articulate they were. “Even though these women belonged to a different era, they were quite liberated in their thoughts and the way they conducted themselves. They were educated and were the keepers of music, song and dance,” explains Deepti, adding, “These verses are exquisite and highly charged with emotions. There is a certain devotional impulse in Kshetrayas poetry that add to its beauty and profundity.” The piece is directed by Deepti and choreographed by Padmini, while both the artistes perform it together on stage.
 
  
  is a book of
 , translated by AK Ramanujan and David Shulman. The first draft of the performance is based on three 
 . Music for the performance has been done by  .
 
  A lot of research and dedication have gone into the crafting of this dance-drama piece. “Through this, we hope to enable the Indian contemporary audience understand and appreciate the timeless thought of our ancient texts, where languages meet and performance disciplines come together,” she adds.
 
  So, was getting into the character a difficult task? “It’s been a liberating personal journey for me, both as a dancer and a theatreperson. I had to dissolve duality within myself to open up and surrender to the divine impulse in Kshetrayas poetry. I also knew that the bhava had to override every expression, word and musical note. That it had to be a prayer and I would learn more in allowing the text to guide me. I had to do away with my personal prejudices of being a woman, and attain another level of freedom through this soulful performance,” Deepti sums up.
 
  Premiered at the Bengaluru International Arts Festival last year, the performance is set to be held again at a city venue this week.
 
 
