

 CHANDIGARH: Farmers of  , who had once turned the state into the food basket of the country, are now reeling under debt and committing suicides. While their plight becomes a major election agenda for all political parties every five years, the pathos is caught by many a creative people in their own works. The Amritsar-born celebrity chef  , too, has been touched by their ordeal. So, the next time this Michelin Star international celebrity chef dons the director’s hat and comes down to Punjab, expect him to talk about Punjabi farmers.
 
 “I will not tell a direct story. In my first feature film, The Last Colour (which is based on a book of the same name he wrote a few years ago), I am not talking about the prejudice attached to the widows of Varanasi and Vrindavan, who were barred from playing Holi. It’s a personal story. After my dad’s demise, I went into hiding in Varanasi for a few days. There, I observed many widows and their unique friendship with street children (especially kids who sell flowers). We are conscious of the dialogues in the film, but we are not giving out an in-the-face message,” the chef told TOI over the phone.
 
 The teaser of Khanna’s directorial debut The Last Colour was recently unveiled at the Cannes. The film, starring Neena Gupta and a child artiste, revolves around   order against the ancient tradition of not allowing the widows to play Holi.
 
 This is Khanna’s fourth appearance at Cannes in a row. In 2017, the trailer of Andrei Severny’s film ‘Buried Seeds’ based on Khanna’s life and journey, was released at Cannes. In 2015, Khanna released his limited-edition culinary book, Utsav (30 kg) at the film fest.
 
 “I wrote the book in 2011. The publisher in America and Europe told me I have fictionised the book a little too much. I hadn’t written fiction before, and it evolved with time. Then in 2012, in a historic order, Supreme Court observed that widows of Vrindavan can play Holi with one another with gulal and flowers. My editor in New York said I should make a movie on the book,” said the chef born with clubfoot (a condition in which the soles of the feet face each other).
 
 Interestingly, it was actor Anupam Kher who had suggested the chef to cast Gupta in the lead role. “She is a legend. I didn’t know if she will work with a first-time director like me. Most of the dialogues in the film come from real women living in the ashrams of Vrindavan. I have shot the film in real locations of Varanasi,” said Khanna.
 
 Like always, the author of more than 25 books, visited the Golden Temple before going on the floors for The Last Colour. “It’s been my tradition always. I always begin a new project after visiting the Golden Temple,” he said.
 
 Though Khanna left for the US in 2000, he hasn’t forgotten his roots. Since his mother lives in Amritsar, he makes it a point to visit the city often. “Even if it’s for a day, I come to Amritsar,” said Khanna, who opened a   in Manipal this year.
 
 The culinary wizard makes an honest confession. “Writing fiction is tough. One requires strong sensibilities to pen down a piece of fiction. Writing on food is easy,” the chef said.
 
 
 
 
