Son of a Sub Inspector and growing up in police quarters, Ganesh Kailash wanted to don the khaki one day. 

 It seemed the logical conclusion since he was a good student and well-built too. Whenever he dropped his dad to the station, his colleagues would tell him to write the qualifying test for Sub Inspectors.
 
 After his post graduation from a college in Chitoor, he did write that test but when a job opportunity came, the young man from Munnoorkode in Palakkad joined a pharma company and worked in Ernakulam for a while before moving to Thrissur with a promotion.
 
 One day, a day in 2006 that Ganesh can never forget, he was on his way to meet a doctor. As he was overtaking a bus on a one-way road, a jeep came from the opposite side and made a head-on collision with his bike. Thrown to the ground, he lay there bleeding and unconscious for about 25 minutes. While the culprit drove off, a college student who came in a car took him to a nearby hospital. “Someone told me later that he was studying in Mangalore. Till date, I have not met him and couldn’t thank him,” says Ganesh.
 
 When he was in the ICU, his parents waved from outside the glass door but he couldn’t lift his hand in reply. A nurse lifted it for him but the MRI confirmed his nightmarish fate: there were serious injuries to the spine, making it impossible for him to move any part below the neck. The doctor broke the news to his dear ones that it was not certain that he would survive and even if he did, he would have to remain in bed the rest of his life.
 
 “Till then, I loved my body. Now I could not depend on it any longer but had to rely on the strength of my mind instead,” he says. “The choice before me was clear. Either I depend on others forever or fight back. I chose the latter and took the doctor’s verdict as a challenge for me to prove him wrong.”
 The odds were, however, stacked against him. At least four people were needed to just turn him in the bed and the body that he was proud of turned out to be a burden. Once, when they lifted his head, he lost consciousness. Life, he realised, had changed beyond recognition and redemption. They knocked at the doors of many hospitals and specialists but they all shrugged their helplessness.
 
 Finally, a doctor at a brain and spine hospital in Vaikom took him in and performed an 18-hour surgery on him. Months of rehabilitation therapy followed there as well as another clinic in Palarivattom. “When they made me stand up for the first time after the accident, it took seven or eight people to do so,” he says. Then he got his best friend, a wheel chair.
 
 Even as a ray of hope was streaming into his bleak existence, there was another setback in the form of a big wound on the back. As he had no sensation, only after it exploded one day into blood and pus, they realised it was so horrendous. The wound took plastic surgery and five long years to heal. He clarifies: “I tell people what I went through not to get sympathy but so that they understand how I overcame what in life.”
 Often, he would have high temperature because of the infection but he would still not miss his physiotherapy, not even when his therapist would suggest that he take rest. Seeing his determination, the doctor at the Palarivattom clinic would get him to talk to his other patients who were in all sorts of trouble as a way of motivating them to do their exercises. He realised that mind matters more than anything else and he passed this message successfully to many, turning into a motivational speaker without even realising it.
 
 After getting back home, he started a T-shirt business along with a friend in the UK even as he got adjusted to the new wheelchair routine. The tremendous and sustained efforts meant that he got back some of the movement in his hands. “It was far from easy. One day, I saw blood around my wheelchair and only then realised that ants had bitten into me so badly. I did not let any of this affect my resolve to lead an active life again.”
 Even as the garment business was going well, thanks to help from friends and family, especially his brother Girish Kumar who is beside him 24/7, he started taking tuitions for students. But the real calling of his life became clear once he was asked by a palliative care group to address a gathering of patients at a hospital. The feedback was overwhelming and he began to be invited to more such interactions. As a couple of newspaper articles came out, more invitations followed. “I don’t know whether to call it motivational talk or inspiration but when I narrate my tale, patients seem to draw a lot of courage from it. Yesterday, I gave my 200th talk,” says Ganesh.
 
 At his talks, he urges people not to worry about the past or what they lost but to try to improve their present so that their future will be within their control. “Today, I may have some disability but I don’t regret anything. I know that mentally, I am stronger than a ‘normal’ person. I am not saying this because of over confidence but the faith I have in myself. My message to people is this: even if your body is weak, make the mind strong to lead a happy life.” The way he smiles and radiates positivity, it is not such a hard sell at all.
 
 
 
