Hathoor (Jagraon): Ten days after Ludhiana police booked two residents of   for the murder of a missing 22-year-old resident of Hathoor village in Jagraon, whose body parts were found near Chachowali village in Jalandhar, the victim’s family continues to refuse cremating him till the culprits were arrested. They also threatened mass immolation if the police forcibly tried to cremate him. Meanwhile, Ludhiana (Rural) police rounded up some family members of the main accused in the case on Thursday night.

 It is alleged that the murdered youth had some objectionable pictures of the sister of one of the accused Lovedish Sandhu. On December 30, the accused called Gurpreet Singh, a student of diploma in computers, near Ludhiana bus stand with the pictures, after which the youth had gone missing. Later, after the victim’s body was handed over by police to the family, his grandmother Gurdayal Kaur (82) had locked the same in the wooden box and refused to cremate it till the culprits were arrested.
 
 “My nephew was such a gentle person that he would never fight with anyone. Now that he has been defamed after his death that he had some objectionable picture of the girl and was murdered because of that, we want to know everything about the case, and the culprits to be punished. In case the police do not arrest the culprits and bring out facts about the case, we will not cremate our son. What is the problem with them if we keep our son’s body. If they forcibly try to cremate him, all the six members of our family will immolate ourselves,” said  , paternal aunt of the deceased who lives in Chhattisgarh, but had come to Hathur for a wedding. She added that they suspected the involvement of many miscreants in the crime, and those who killed him handed over his body to some other people for disposing of it, as there was little blood at the crime spot, and his clothes were not torn.
 
 Meanwhile, family members said the police were harassing them for not cremating the youth. “Last night after having dinner, I was going to sleep when an ASI came to me and told me to accompany him, as DSP Kanwarpal Singh wanted to talk to him in his vehicle. Instead of searching for the killers of my grandson, they are using every method to pressurize us to cremate him,” said Jagir Singh (75), grandfather of the deceased. “While leaving home on December 30, he got up at 3.30am, took a bath and tied his turban before his grandmother Gurdayal Kaur made rotis for him. Later, I gave him Rs100 and asked him to get money for travel to Patiala from his grandmother, but he refused to take money from her, as he told us that his friend had paid for the travel. On the same day, we called him at 4.30pm, but his phone was switched off.” He added that later the next day, they got a call from Gurpreet’s friend   that he had talked to him on December 30, and at that time he was returning from Patiala in a bus.
 
 Family members said Gurpreet’s parents Jasvir Singh and Baljeet Kaur had gone to meet senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Ludhiana Rural,  , to demand for the immediate arrest of the culprits. They also expressed doubt over the involvement of Lovedish Sandhu and Jatinder Gill, as they claimed they hadn’t even heard the names of the villages the accused belonged to so, how could they have enmity with their son.
 
 Gurpreet’s elder sister   said: “I suspect the involvement of my brother-in-law (cousin’s husband) in my younger brother’s murder. My cousin has been calling us, and he came to our place on January 11, even before his body parts were handed over to us. She and her husband threatened us, and were using all tactics to cremate the body parts of my brother. There are chances of the involvement of a girl my brother-in-law knew in the case.”
 
 Meanwhile, Ludhiana (Rural) police said investigation into the case was going on at a fast pace. “After rounding up a friend of the main accused, who had provided him a Sim card from which they had called the victim, we have rounded up his mother and sister (whose allegedly objectionable pictures were with the deceased) in the case. We are questioning them about various aspects of the case, and we expect some clues from them,” said SSP Ludhiana (Rural) Surjeet Singh. He refuted the family’s allegations of police harassment.
 
 Police sources said senior officers were in touch with the sarpanch of the village the main accused belonged to, adding that he might be in the state itself. 
 
 
