BENGALURU: A senior counsel, representing   arrested for allegedly attempting to murder a youth, argued on Monday that the victim’s father J Lokanath is far more powerful than the accused’s lawmaker-father NA Haris as he got the government to suspend the jurisdictional inspector, transfer an ACP within a day of the incident and appoint a special public prosecutor.

 Defence counsel Tomy   sought bail for Haris Jr as the incident took place on sudden provocation, both parties had quarrelled in a city restaurant and both suffered injuries but there was no intention to kill anyone.
 
 Special Public Prosecutor M S Shyam Sundar, however, said Haris had created terror in the Central Business District and that’s why no one came to rescue victim   L on the night of February 17. He said the complainant had said Haris and his associates beat Vidvat “brutally and mercilessly but people at Farzi Cafe did not do anything”.
 
 After a two-hour hearing, Parameshwara Prasanna B, judge of the 63rd City Civil and  , adjourned the hearing of bail petitions of Haris and six fellow accused to Tuesday. 
 
 In his supplementary objections, the SPP said Vidvat had sustained grave injuries and is not in position to give a statement. Any release of the accused at this stage would weaken the case of the injured, he said.
 
 Claiming there is evidence that the accused tried to kill Vidvat by seriously assaulting him with lethal objects like knuckle rings, glass bottles and an ice jug, Sundar said the accused thrashed the victim despite knowing that he was already injured and couldn’t even shield himself. The accused had followed the victim to hospital to threaten and kill him.
 
 Likening the incident to the Nirbhaya case, the SPP alleged the accused had already tried to destroy evidence. “They will misguide the investigation and bring pressure upon witnesses and investigating officers,” he said, adding that they’d be unavailable for further investigation.
 
 He said some of the accused, including Srikrishna, are still absconding. Scientific investigation is still pending and the probe could be jeopardized by interference of the accused. He also said the accused’s suspected links with the underworld and mafia are being probed. 
 
 Sebastian said Vidvat’s health condition is good but police are not recording his statement citing poor health. He requested the court to get the prosecution to furnish Vidvat’s medical status report.
 
 The complaint and counter-complaint showed there was a group clash, he said, adding that the complaint does not mention the accused were there to kill the victim. Haris Jr has no history of criminal cases and all the accused surrendered to police by themselves, he said.
 
 He dismissed claims that the accused used knuckle rings, saying police hadn’t recovered them from the crime scene or the accused. Police have seized on an ice jug and shards of a glass bottle, which they took from staff of the hotel where the incident took place.
 
 The SPP said the accused surrendered only for fearing of being arrested.
 
 
 
 
 Sebastian once referred to Vidvat as deceased, prompting Shyam Sundar to intervene and say the victim could become deceased if the accused are allowed to do what they want. Sebastian immediately corrected himself, saying he has been arguing only murder cases till now and this is the first time he’s appearing in an attempt to murder case. 
 
 
 
 
 A team of CCB officials visited Vidvat L in Mallya hospital around 10am Monday to record his statement but had to return empty handed. Police sources said: “Doctors said Vidvat may not be able to speak properly and took us into his room. Vidvat tried hard to open his mouth and speak but he couldn’t. Doctors asked us to come after two days.”
 
 
