PANAJI: On the recommendation of the Goa Service Board, seven mid-level officers were transferred on Friday.

 CCP deputy commissioner,  , has been posted as deputy collector and SDM, Tiswadi. Gurudas Desai, who held the post of Tiswadi SDM, has been posted as deputy collector (land acquisition), North.
 
 Deputy collector (revenue), North, Sheru Shirodkar, has been posted as deputy director (administration), at the directorate of settlement and land records.
 
 Deputy collector and SDM, Paresh Fal Desai who holds additional charge as administrator of communidade,  , has been posted as deputy collector (revenue), South. He will now hold charge of administrator of communidade, South Zone, state land acquisition officer at WRD-Gogol, and deputy collector (revenue), South, in addition to his own duties.
 
 Under secretary, health-I, Trupti Manerkar, will also serve as under secretary to the health minister. Administrative officer at Hospicio, Uday Prabhu Desai, has been transferred as deputy collector and sub divisional officer-I, Salcete. 
 
 Deputy collector (revenue), South, Amir Parab, holding the additional charge as deputy collector (revenue), South, state land acquisition officer at WRD-Gogol, and block development officer, Pernem, has been posted as deputy collector (revenue), North. He retains additional charge as deputy collector (revenue), North, and block development officer, Pernem.
 
 Deputy collector (administration) at GMC, Pavin Parab, will hold charge as deputy director (child welfare) and deputy director of women and child development in addition to his own duties. He relieves Fransquinha Oliveira.
 
 Under secretary (personnel-I),  , will also hold charge of OSD in the Goa RERA. GSIC under secretary, Shanti M Harding, will hold charge as state land acquisition officer and CoP in addition to her own duties.
 
 Deputy collector and SDM, Mormugao, Mahadev Araundekar, has been relieved of the additional charge of superintendent of Sada jail and the same has been handed over to the superintendent of Colvale jail.
 
 Abhishek Kumar has been posted as deputy collector and SDM-II, Bardez, till April 15 while   has been relieved of the charge.
 
 
