NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday ordered Jaiprakash Associates Ltd ( ) to deposit Rs 1,000 crore in court by June 15 even as new complications and players emerged in the eight-month-long proceedings undertaken by SC to ensure refund to   in JAL’s sister concern’s delayed housing projects.

 
 On September 11, 2017, a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud had assured homebuyers that their interest would be protected even if big creditors and realtors suffered. JAL, the holding company of   (JIL) which is facing insolvency proceedings initiated in NCLT by a consortium of banks led by IDBI Bank, was ordered to deposit Rs 2,000 crore by October 27.
 
 On Wednesday, the court was told that JAL had deposited only Rs 750 crore. The bench asked JAL to deposit an additional Rs 1,000 crore and asked amicus curiae Pawan Shree Agrawal to frame modalities to begin pro-rata refunds to homebuyers by the first week of July.
 
 Lakshadweep, whose bid was rejected by the committee of creditors, through senior advocate Vikas Singh said it was ready to invest Rs 5,000 crore upfront in the incomplete projects and expeditiously allot houses to people. But JAL counsel Anupal Lal Das said a failed bidder could not be permitted to enter the proceedings in the SC. Das said the SC must consider JAL’s proposal for completing the housing projects. Lakshadweep is a joint venture between Sudhir Valia-led Suraksha ARC and Dosti Realty.
 
 There was chaos in the courtroom as over a dozen lawyers argued simultaneously for homebuyers, new bidders, banking institutions and even those who had securitisation claims on   Infratech Ltd assets. 
 
 On March 21, the amicus curiae had informed the court that 2,800 homebuyers in JIL’s housing projects had registered on the portal created by him on the SC’s direction and it would require an estimated Rs 1,300 crore to meet their refund demands.
 
 On August 23 last year, the SC had agreed to hear a PIL filed by Chitra Sharma, on behalf of thousands of homebuyers in JIL’s delayed housing projects, challenging the NCLT proceedings initiated by IDBI Bank and others under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, under which homebuyers had no say in the liquidation process of a financially distressed company.
 
 Later, the SC had permitted insolvency proceedings to continue but restrained the committee of creditors and the NCLT from finalising the process for liquidation of JIL’s assets.
 
