LUCKNOW: Saying no to the allpowerful   is a tough job, even for the  . Recently,   were grappling with the suggestion of the Aayog to set up ‘gaushalas’ (cow shelters) at   (PAC) as they didn't have the wherewithal to tend bovines. So the home department came up with a compromise formula: 12 prisons of the state can happily run the ‘gaushalas’ as there’s no dearth of manpower.

 Confirming the arrangement, additional inspector general of prisons department, Sharad, said: “In jails, we have ample space and enough people who can tend cows. We gave our nod to the proposal immediately.” Headed by former IAS officer Rajiv Gupta, the Gau Sewa Aayog has gained a lot of importance as chief minister Yogi Adityanath is taking keen interest in implementing cow welfare schemes.
 
 After a meeting on November 16 at Jawahar Bhawan, Gupta wrote to the principal secretary, home and prisons, and to the director general of police to convince the two department heads to promote cow welfare activities.
 
 However, the proposal to run cow shelters at PAC compounds was turned down by DGP headquarters.
 
 On December 5, Gupta again sent a letter to the two heads.
 
 This time, his note said, “The PAC has said running cow shelters will not be possible for it. Another request is being made to the home department and police department that just as PAC is running schools, cow shelters can also be started. Cows would get support and police personnel would derive positive energy from cow welfare.” However, the proposal was turned down by PAC for the second time on January 18.
 
 Principal secretary, home and prisons, Arvind Kumar, said, “Setting up cow shelters on PAC battalion compounds was not found to be feasible. We went through the recommendations of the commission and forwarded it to the concerned department heads. PAC is burdened with a lot of work and till the time more personnel get recruited, the idea cannot be implemented.” After this, the home department asked the commission to start running cow shelters in 12 of the 69 prisons in UP.
 
 
 
 
 The PAC was raised in 1940 to contain serious law and order situations when civil police were unable to do so. With time, the 22,000-strong force was divided into 33 battalions and deputed to secure the most vital establishments in the state such as the three disputed religious sites in Ayodhya, Mathura and Varanasi and the Taj Mahal in Agra. It has also been deputed in times of communal riots, disasters and major accidents. For the past one year, PAC has been deployed for security of Lucknow Metro. A significant number of its men have been placed under state disaster response force and UP-100, resulting in acute shortage of manpower, said an officer posted at DGP. headquarters.
 
