JAIPUR: Eleven persons were killed and over a dozen others were critically injured when a speeding   public transport bus collided with a truck on a highway near   area of   district early Wednesday morning. Total 27 people have died in road accidents in the past 24 hours in the state. 

 The police in Sikar said, the dense fog and overspeeding contributed to the fatal mishap. “The bus was carrying about 40 passengers; the driver overtook a roadways bus. But he could not see an oncoming truck due to foggy conditions and collided with it,” said Sabbir Khan, SHO,   police station.
 
 The Sikar district administration announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 each for the kin of the deceased and Rs 10,000 to the injured.The villagers informed the police and the ambulance about the   and rushed to rescue some of the victims who were still breathing.
 
 The gravity of the accident could be gauged by the condition of the bus which was completely mangled in the accident. The passenger seats were crushed; one portion of the bus was completely ripped away. The wires were jutting out of the debris, while the crumpled up travel bag and other belongings of its passengers dangled above from what had become a pile of scrap.
 
 Bodies of the victims, including that of children and young women, were crushed in the accident. One portion of the bus was torn apart and it pieces were strewn all over the road.
 
 It has been a harrowing start for a new year in Rajasthan. Total 27 lives have been lost in different road accidents in the state since Tuesday. The fog and rash driving were chief reasons attributed to the deadly accidents which occurred in  , Jodhpur, Jaipur and Sikar districts.
 
 On Tuesday late night, eight people had who had been travelling in a jeep were killed after it rammed into a truck near a highway in Renwal in the outskirts of the Jaipur. On Wednesday morning, 16 people suffered critical injuries in a pile in Alwar’s Tijara area.
 
 Similarly, three of family, including an eight-year-old girl, was killed after the taxi in which they were travelling lost control in dense fog and fell into a pond in Deeg area of Bharatpur district on early Tuesday morning. A few hours after Bharatpur mishap, four people were killed after one SUV rammed into an oil tanker in Jodhpur on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 “Fog impairs visibility due to which the drivers lose control of their vehicle, in Jaipur and Sikar accident the drivers disregarded the low visibility and drove at a high speed,” said a police official.
 
 
