PATNA: The state cabinet has approved the modification in the Loknayak Ganga Path project. Of the 20.5km proposed driveway along the Ganga in Patna, a stretch of 11.7km will be now an elevated structure.

 The IIT-Roorkee had been assigned to study and modify the driveway project in 2016 in view of the shift in the course of Ganga. After the IIT gave its report, the project’s nodal agency,   (BSRDCL), revised the detailed project report last year.
 
 BSRDCL chief general manager Chandra Shekhar told TOI on Wednesday the driveway from Digha to the A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies would be laid on the embankment. From the institute, an elevated road would go up to Krishna Ghat from where the driveway would again be laid on the embankment up to Nurudaddin Ghat.
 
 The stretch from Nurudaddin Ghat to Deedarganj would be on the embankment while it be an elevated road from Deedarganj to Gopghat. “While 11.7km stretch will be elevated, the remaining stretch of 8.8km will be on the embankment,” Shekhar said.
 
 Acording to him, the estimated outlay has been increased from Rs 3,100 crore to Rs 3,300 crore owing to increase in the length of elevated stretches.
 
 Other changes in the project include addition of 13 pedestrian underpasses to help people access the Ganga, especially during Chhath festivities. Besides, approach roads will be constructed at six places, including at PMCH, to provide connectivity between Ashok Rajpath and the driveway. Two toll plazas are also proposed: one at Bans Ghat and the other near the Deedarganj checkpost.
 
 CM Nitish Kumar had laid the stone of the expressway project on October 11, 2013 at  . A Hyderabad-based firm, Navayuga Engineering Company Limited, has been tasked with the execution of the project under the EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) mode.
 
 The state government has taken a loan of Rs 2,000 crore from the   to meet the project cost. The rest of the funds will be made available by the state government.
 
 The expressway is expected to reduce the travel time between Digha Ghat and Deedarganj from two hours to 20 minutes. “The deadline for completion of the project is June 2020. As of now, 71 pillars have been constructed,” Shekhar said.
 
 
