Trichy: In a major relief to residents of Trichy, the district administration on Friday announced a ban on entry of heavy vehicles with vegetable and fruit produce approaching Gandhi market from June. Though the ban helps prevent traffic congestion within the market vicinity, the move is seen more as a strategy to relocate the existing traders from the congested Gandhi Market to the Kallikudi integrated vegetable market complex situated on the city outskirts. Only on April 5, TOI had published a report titled ‘Trichy Folk Seek Curbs on Entry of Heavy Vehicles’. Police sources said that entry of heavy vehicles towards Gandhi Market via Thanjavur Main Road, EB Road and Palakkarai was allowed only between 8pm to 4am, while the permissible period during day was from 1pm to 4pm. However, with rules and regulations going up in smoke, the load carriers enter the congested market round-the-clock and park their vehicles haphazardly on the roads near Banana auction centre during peak hours. Besides jeopardising road safety protocols, the congestion and bottlenecks make the stretches like Thanjavur Main Road, EB Road, and Madurai Main Road as the most polluted spots in the city. Concerned over the increasing traffic congestion, the district administration, based on the orders of collector K Rajamani informed traders and other stakeholders of Gandhi Market to adhere with the ban from next month. “This is a welcome move and a clever strategy that could pave way for relocation of the market. The ban on heavy vehicles entering Gandhi market will push traders to relocate their business to Kallikudi integrated market,” an official source with agriculture marketing department said. The administration also opined that ban on heavy vehicles to access Gandhi market was an outcome of the long-time demand of locals and activists. “Once the ban comes into effect we would ensure that no heavy vehicles with fruit and vegetable produce are entering Gandhi market premises. Vehicles violating the ban will be penalised heavily, and truck owners have to oblige,” a senior official with the city traffic police wing said. Infrastructure development agencies in the city claimed that such restrictions are need of the hour to decongest the city. As the district administration has given three weeks time for the ban to come into effect, wholesale traders have been asked to approach the agriculture marketing department in Palakkarai to apply for a shop in Kallikudi integrated market.  Cashing in the situation, the agriculture marketing department, the agency responsible for relocating the traders to the new facility said that applications will be distributed between May 7 and May 14 for traders willing to rent a shop there. “A total of 830 shops, including 500 on the first floor will be available for rent between Rs 1,600 and Rs 4,000 price range on a monthly basis. We expect wholesale traders such as potato, onion, fruits, and English vegetable traders to move for new facility,” the official source added. Entry points where vehicles will be penalised: 1) Palpannai roundabout 2) EB road branching off from Oyamari Road 3) Palakkarai roundabout