CHENNAI: Tuesday turned out to be a big day for Chennai-based artisans R   and T K Bharani as they received Craft Council of India’s (CCI) Kamala awards for Outstanding Contribution for Preservation of Indian Art, Craft and Tradition and Excellence in Craftsmanship, respectively. The awards, instituted in 2000 to recognise and reward excellence in Indian arts and crafts, also marked social reformer and founder of CCI Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay’s 115th birth anniversary.

 Bharani comes from a family of sandalwood miniature carvers and is the last to have mastered this art in his family. He grew up in  , learning the art from his father, mastercraftsman TK Kalastri. 
 
 Among the several monuments and famed scenes he has replicated are the Taj Mahal, Santhome Church, the Meenakshi-Sundareswar kalyanam and most popularly, the massive gopuram of the Tanjore big temple – all on pieces of sandalwood no higher than two feet. 
 
 “This work is unique to our land. If like other modern artists, we get opportunities to exhibit our artwork on international platforms, we will bring home accolades like never before,” says Bharani. “But due to the unavailability of sandalwood in the state, we are fighting against odds. My kids are willing to learn and even have the skill set, but this is our biggest threat,” he adds.
 
 Selvanathan comes from a family of some of the most renowned temple architects and sculptors of south India, whose legacy goes back to the ancient   temple. His grandfather Vaidyanatha Sthapati received the National Award for Master Craftsmen in 1963 and his guru and Ganapati Sthapati trained him in his formative years before he went on to study at   and Sculpture, Mamallapuram. Selvanathan and his team has renovated and restored the Gunja Narasimha Swami temple in Karnataka and   temple in Mylapore among others, and replicated the Narai statue at Thalang National Museum, Phuket.
 
  “I learnt from my guru to imagine with accuracy the way ancient temples were envisioned. This is important while restoring them today,” he says. “In this context, we are in a great need for skilled students with knowledge of temple architecture and restoration in other states. With our expertise in Dravidian architecture, we find it challenging to work in other states,” he adds.
 
 
