NAGPUR: High drama was witnessed in   when 39 workers of RC   Logistics, situated at MIDC Hingna, protested against poor working conditions atop an overhead water tank. Nandanvan police has booked them for unlawful assembly, providing wrong information to cops and submitting false information in writing.

 Over 100 workers of the plant reached the water tank at around 4am and started raising slogans against the plant management. Some 39 of them climbed atop the tank at around 4.20am while around 70 remained at the foot of the structure.
 
 Some early risers informed the cops about the protest and they rushed to the spot at around 5.30am. The cops tried to persuade the workers to come down but in vain. They wanted an assurance that district collector should personally visit their plant and witness their pitiable conditions. The cops could give them no such assurance. Finally, the dejected workers climbed down at around 11.30am.
 
 Nandkishor Sharma, a social worker, charged that the plant management was exploiting the workers and not even providing them basic amenities.
 
 “The workers are not given any raise in pay for years together. Last year the owner Vishal Agrawal had agreed for a pay hike but it was meagre. The workers have lodged a case with the labour commissioner against it,” said Sharma.
 
 A worker Umesh Rane alleged that they did not have a proper place for having their meals. “The door of the lavatory has come unstuck and you have to hold it while relieving yourself. The workers are not even provided free tea. They have to pay Rs3 a cup for a watery concoction,” he said.
 
 Another worker   said that the employees had formed   and Pipes Kamgar Sanghatna some years ago. “The union submitted a charter of demands to the management on May 28, 2014 containing 42 demands, but it has still not been taken seriously. The workers are not even provided with the basic facilities in spite of serving the company for 25 years,” he added.
 
 Cops said that the agitators had been booked under Section 177 and 188 of IPC because they had stated in writing that they climb the water tank at 9am while they did so at 4.20am.
 
 
