MUMBAI: A degree in B Com [Accounts and Finance] ( ) is increasingly becoming a coveted one for undergraduate students in the city.

 Going by Mumbai University’s enrolment data this year, students pursuing BAF, as it is popularly known as, stand at 12,678—almost double the strength in 2013-14. In the same period, the enrolment in mass media has shot by 74%, recording the second highest growth since 2013. Principals attribute the popularity of BAF to the increase in chartered accountancy aspirants choosing it over B Com.
 
 While job-oriented self-financed courses have been rising on the popularity chart on a faster pace, enrolment in plain vanilla courses is slow-moving, with science recording the highest growth of around 35% in the last five years. B Com, which has almost 40% of the total students enrolled in the university in the current year, has not seen much growth. Principals claimed that the total intake in commerce may have reached saturation. Principal Madhu Nair, former dean of commerce, and principal of  , said that students opting for chartered accountancy have risen over the years. “The syllabus for BAF is already covered under chartered accountancy. Aspirants end up preparing for accounting and finance and need not study separately for the undergraduate course. BAF is also a scoring subject and class XII passouts are aware about the success rate in courses,” said Nair. Parag Thakker, principal (in-charge) of  , said that they do not encourage chartered accountancy (CA) aspirants to opt for BAF as it involves a lot of project work and is a demanding course. “B Com is still the most preferred choice for CA aspirants, but students opt for BAF to cover both syllabi simultaneously. BAF is also more job-oriented than a plain B Com course. However, the enrolment numbers are unlikely to double in the next few years,” said Thakker.
 
 Since it’s a popular course, many colleges are increasing their divisions in BAF. Around 15 colleges seek to start either a new division for BAF or to start the programme almost every year. “Since it is a course in demand, colleges would want to increase their seats to accommodate as many students as possible,” said Nair.
 
 Other self-financed courses such as B Com (Banking and Insurance) and B Com (Financial Market), which was started in   in the same year, have not seen such a rise in popularity as BAF. Graduates in self-financed courses are more in demand during campus placements too. A landmark change in the taxation policies in the country, with the introduction of GST, also made BAF lucrative, said Thakker.
 
 With students getting to choose between three specialisations under  , continues to remain popular with nearly 60% growth. BMM is the only choice available for Arts students and also appeals to students with all its glamour, and therefore, even when the numbers of students opting for it is just about 7,000, the growth is substantial, said a principal. With the variety of subjects available for B Sc aspirants right from biotechnology to microbiology and statistics, the numbers of students opting for it has seen a rise. The growth in enrolment in B Sc over the previous year too is over 20%.
 
