NAGPUR: What should be the limit of externment and whether the accused could be externed from the city, even if his crime is limited a particular locality? The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, in a rare instance, requested the chief justice to constitute a larger bench to answer these queries on the law purview. 

 The poser came while hearing a plea by Sumit Maraskolhe, who was externed from city by DCP zone-I for two years, while exercising powers under Sections 56(1)(a) and (b) of the Bombay Police Act, 1951, on June 9 last year. Through counsel  , he challenged the extent of his externment and inadequate opportunity for represent himself.
 
 “We expect the early constitution of the larger bench, as in the present matter, the period of two years of externment is likely to expire. The questions are of public importance and repeatedly arise in day-to-day matters,” a division bench comprising justices   and   said.
 
 The externment order came after the witnesses, whose statements were recorded in-camera, refused to depose against him in court, out of fear for life. The DCP quoted grounds that his activities pose threats to citizens and properties under the Pratapnagar Police Station (PS) jurisdiction.
 
 Relying on previous verdict by the bench of justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Indira Jain, in case of Akhilesh Mishra versus Maharashtra government, Vyas argued on validity of the externment, asserting that there is no material evidence to show the additional area (apart from jurisdiction of PS) is intimately connected by current transportation system. There’s no prescribed formula for limiting externments for potentially dangerous individuals to a particular area, he said.
 
 Additional public prosecutor (APP) MK Pathan relied on five apex court’s rulings stating that the petitioner was given fair opportunity to defend himself hearings.
 
 While disagreeing with their colleagues, Justices Deshpande and Giratkar pointed out that the then division bench didn’t go through the   verdict that hadn’t insisted on material to justify the externment beyond local limits.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
