MUMBAI: A Palghar man stole a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation ( )   from Boisar   with two passengers in it, drove for a few yards and rammed into a tree, thereby bringing the vehicle to a halt and avoiding a major tragedy on Tuesday.

 The accused, Sabir Mansuri (31), who is suspected to be mentally unstable, told cops that he stole the bus to drive to his hometown in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 
  
  
 
 In 2012, MSRTC driver   had similarly driven away with a bus, mowing down nine people and injuring 29 in Pune. Mane, who too claimed to be mentally unsound, covered 15km before he was nabbed. He was sentenced to death.Mansuri walked into the depot around 11.30am and saw bus   A M Rajput leave the cabin to report to the depot controller before leaving for his next trip to Palghar. Rajput had left the cabin door unlocked, and two passengers had already boarded the bus.
 
 Mansuri too ran towards the bus but sat on the driver’s seat. The passengers panicked as Mansuri did not look like a driver; he was in a white kurta-pyjama. They screamed for help as Mansuri pressed the push button to start ignition.
 
 Mansuri had covered merely 25 feet when the bus rammed into a tree inside the depot. It then got stuck in a ditch. “The bus did not leave the depot gate. Mansuri banged into the tree and remained seated in the driver’s seat,” said   inspector  .
 
 Drivers, conductors and passengers at the depot ran towards the bus and thrashed Mansuri before calling cops. The two passengers were in a state of shock. Had Mansuri driven out of the gate, the bus would have moved on to the busy Boisar- Tarapur Road, said cops. After much questioning, Mansuri said he stole the bus to visit his hometown in UP. But cops suspect he may have seen the cabin door open and entered out of curiosity. He may have pressed the start button and not known how to stop. 
 
 Meanwhile, a departmental inquiry has been initiated against Rajput who was expected to lock the cabin door before leaving the bus, MSRTC spokesperson   told TOI.
 
 
