CHENNAI:   across the city and the state have opted to continue playing the   before screening of a film as managements, wary of repercussions should status quo be altered, have adopted a wait-and-watch approach.

 The   had, on January 9, held that playing the national anthem before a movie screening was optional until the central government-constituted a inter-ministerial committee took a call. The apex court also left it to the discretion of theatre managements on whether or not to play the anthem.
 
 A representative of SPI cinemas, a chain of multiplexes in Chennai and Coimbatore among other south Indian cities and Mumbai, told TOI that the management had a "discussion" following the SC verdict. “We decided to continue because there was no opposition from our customers,” said the SPI representative, requesting anonymity.
 
 Vettri theatres, a popular screen in Chromepet, located in the southern suburb of Chennai, told TOI that they continued playing the anthem because they preferred to “gauge the situation” before taking a call. “We wanted to wait and see if anybody had an issue with the SC verdict. We will continue playing for a few more weeks and then decide,” the theatre management’s representative said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Across Tamil Nadu, popular screens like Krithika Cinemas in Coimbatore and Ambiga Cinemas in Madurai too have persisted with the anthem.
 
 Abirami Ramanathan, president, TN theatre owners' federation who also owns Abirami cinemas, said he has a part to play in instilling patriotic feelings in moviegoers, to explain why his screens play the anthem. “I don't think any member in our association feels strongly about the anthem to stop playing it. But, they do have a choice,” said Ramanathan.
 
 As Ramanathan asserted, while the choice (to stop playing) rests with the theatre management, the question is one of who takes the bait first? According to Madras high court advocate V Suresh, the indecision of theatre owners could be a result of fear and intolerance gripping the political arena. The SPI cinemas representative however denied there was ever any pressure from fringe groups or political circles to continue playing the anthem.
 
 Actor R Parthiepan, who has been vocal in his support of the anthem, told TOI that the lack of clarity in the verdict was perhaps a reason. “Either make it (anthem) mandatory or stop playing it,” he said. Veteran actor Kamal Haasan had commented that he’d prefer if the anthem was not played at random events and inside movie halls.
 
 Political analyst R Manivannan said theatre owners were playing safe. “A problem with the SC verdict is that the option (of anthem) should have logically been extended to the viewing public too. If the people don't prefer to show their patriotism at cinema halls, then they must question the cinema halls,” he said.
 
