Mumbai: New year is unlikely to bring much cheer to the beleaguered   with falling bond values adding to their woes. Banks stand to lose close to Rs 15,500 crore from their earnings during the third quarter on account of provisions for fall in value of their bond portfolio. Market prices of government bonds had crashed in the last week of December 2017 after the Centre said that it would exceed its borrowing target for the current financial year.

 The third quarter had seen the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rise by 67 basis points to 7.33%. According to an analysis of the bond portfolio of banks by ratings agency  , public sector banks will suffer a marked-to-market loss of Rs 12,365 crore on their total investment book of Rs 26.96 lakh crore. Marked-to-market losses can occur when financial instruments held are valued at the current market value. 
 
 Earlier, the steady decline in bond yields had resulted in windfall   for the banking sector, especially during the last six quarters (Q4FY2016-Q2FY2018). During this period, the price of older   rose as banks paid more for bonds that were paying out a higher return than what was currently available in the market. By selling bonds to each other at a profit, banks made treasury gains of about Rs 1 lakh crore, which was much higher than the total profit before tax ( ) of Rs 51,105 crore for the entire banking sector during this period.
 
 While the treasury gains also include divestments of non-core investments by banks given the profitability pressures, the same is estimated to be less than Rs 20,000 crore in overall treasury gains, reflecting a larger share of gains coming from their bond portfolios. Because of larger share of excess G-sec holdings, a larger share of the treasury gains was also accounted for by public sector banks (PSBs), which cumulatively accounted for treasury gains of Rs 74,300 crore during the above mentioned period. However, despite these sizeable treasury gains, PSBs reported losses before tax of Rs. 48,020 crore during the said period.
 
 According to Karthik Srinivasan, group head, financial sector ratings, ICRA, PSBs are likely to account for 80% share of overall   losses. “With losses before tax of Rs 5,624 crore during H1FY2018, MTM losses will further add to losses and erode capital ratios for PSBs. In contrast, private banks are relatively better placed to absorb the MTM losses with profit before tax of Rs 30,994 crore during H1FY2018. With unexpected surge in yields on consequent increase in losses, the government may need to increase the capital it intends to front-load into public sector banks by recapitalisation bonds.”
 
 The   are expected to hit banks at a time when they will be hit by provisions for bad loans. “Gains from divestments of non-core assets by banks are also expected to be limited during the quarter to offset the losses on bond portfolios of banks. While the recent capital mobilisation by few PSBs through QIP route during the December 2017 would help them limit capital erosion, losses on the investment portfolio may necessitate higher quantum of capital frontloading into PSBs by the government during FY2018,” Srinivasan added.
 
 
