For R Shanmugasundaram, parent of a ten-year-old staying near  , the   Botanical Garden located on the   is the closest park he can take his child to during weekends. But the park, supposed to be a rich treasure trove of various species of flora and fauna and one of the major tourist attractions in the city, lies neglected. "People come to parks to enjoy the greenery and have a good time amidst the flora. But what welcomes you here is broken benches, dried landscape, overgrown bushes and neglected fountains," he said.

 The visitors at the park said that while they were happy that the park was open for them, they would appreciate it if the government put in some effort to maintain it. "Majority of the visitors are children. They should use this space to educate them and set up display rooms or informative boards teaching children about the importance of environment," said Radha, a homemaker.
 
 Maintained by the floriculture department of   Agricultural University, the 25-acre park was constructed during the British period nearly 100 years ago. It was opened to public when the university was inaugurated. While the park was developed only during the 1960s when new species of plants were introduced, officials said nearly a decade ago, it was a much sought after location in the city. "People would flock in large numbers to see the various flowers and lawns. The fountains were also well maintained back then," said an official. Sadly, the only those who visit the park now are wedding photographers and some couples. "It has little to offer to people and children," said Ramesh M, a regular at the park.
 
 Blaming it on the lack of funds and support from the tourism department, university officials said they were trying their best to maintain it as much as possible using students and staff. Activists pointed out that it had been seven years since a flower show was held at the park, the last one was held in 2011. M  , dean of the horticulture college and research institute said they had sent a proposal a few years back to the tourism department. "But we did not get any funding. We are doing our best to maintain it," he said.
 
 M Kannan, professor and head, department of floriculture and landscaping who is now in-charge for the maintenance of the park said the park was used more for educational purposes than for recreation. "While we have not stopped the visitors, we have just ensured it is a restricted entry. We encourage schools to send their children to the park and conduct workshops for farmers as well," he said. He added that the botanical gardens in hill stations were exclusively for recreation purposes. "But this one is for education, research and for department’s use as well. So we use it more for academic purpose," he said.
 
 
