BHOPAL: After announcing sops for farmers, the state government is planning a  ,   and   as part of its poll strategy. The sops include extending retirement age, new wages and promotion policy for staff, benefit for pensioners and fixed remuneration to   and Asha workers, which are likely to be declared in a phased manner from month end.

 Sources in the Mantralaya said that after CM's announcement to prepare a policy on promotion benefits to employees who retired after January 1, 2016, the government is also mulling to extend retirement age of its employees from 60 to 62 years. Draft plan for the promotion benefit is in the last phase, sources said, adding that demand of pensioners to grant benefit of 7th Pay Commission recommendations is also likely to be approved in forthcoming cabinet meeting.
 
 In another major decision after wage benefits announced to teachers and panchayat employees, the government is likely to grant a fix package salary to Anganwadi and Asha workers who were at present paid stipend for their daily task. The workers, who were often assigned priority work as per the poll manifesto, were demanding a fixed wage since a long time.
 
 "BJP has focused on all segments under its development plan and government employees have also been included. If the government feels that there are genuine reasons to give benefit to employees, it can take decisions as and when it deems fit. The party aims at serving peoplewithout eyeing political gains", said BJP state spokesperson Deepak Vijayavargiya.
 
 Sources in BJP also revealed that big sops are awaiting employees in the election year. There are seven lakh government employees and 2.5 lakh pensioners in the state. Daily wagers, Anganwadi and Asha workers also constitute a good number among voters, sources said. The BJP government has also targeted youth and in the coming budget session, the government is likely to announce one lakh jobs to woo young voters. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan recently announced that generating jobs for the youth is in the priority list of the government and those who were willing to take up entrepreneurship will be provided financial assistance through banks.
 
 "Promotion benefit to pensioners, extension of retirement age to 62 years and fixed remuneration to Anganwadi workers are pending demands. Pensioners are also seeking 7th pay commission benefits and the government has agreed to these demands. But, big question is whether the cash-strapped government can fulfil these promises?" questioned Laxminarayan Sharma, convener of joint front of employee union. He said government had promised merger of employees, which is facing administrative hiccups. It would be a challenging task for the government to bear the expenses incurred on its promises. Decision would also have additional financial burden on state's coffer and taxpayer's kitty, he said.
 
