Visakhapatnam: The   tourism project, which was supposed to be rolled out by the first week of May as per the plans of the management, are set to be delayed due to the necessary infrastructure not being in place yet.

 Sources said the project will be rolled out either in August or September - around the time of the southwest monsoon.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Hoverdock managing director D Chaitanya Varma admitted that there were infrastructural hurdles. “We are yet to complete the platform works at the Beach Road. We have applied for power supply and other formalities, which are yet to be established here. We are hopeful of launching the project by August or September,” Varma said.
 
 Sources from the department of tourism said some protests against the project are also holding up progress.
 
 “People want development of Vizag, but at the same time, a section of society is trying to obstruct it. Support from local organisations is important for entrepreneurs to set up projects and companies which can project the city on the world map,” said a senior tourism official requesting not to be named.
 
 A source from the Hoverdock company said all permits were granted to the project at the beach front. “Collector Pravin Kumar told us to start the project at the earliest by completing basic infrastructure works. GVMC also sanctioned the site to us,” the source added.
 
 Russian-made hovercrafts were shipped from St Petersburg to Visakhapatnam Port. Training session for the sailors, pilots, divers and other staff is ongoing.
 
 Hoverdock, in association with Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department, is executing the project - a first-of-its-kind in the country. Hovercrafts can withstand rough sea conditions.
 
 “We can operate the hovercraft project nearly 250 days in a year. The beach front here is awesome. Currently, we are training two local pilots to steer a hovercraft. Both are experienced seamen and have sailed all types of boats,” said the hovercraft trainer A Raju. GVMC allocated a 3,700 sq yard site to build a facility for the vehicles opposite Hotel Sea Pearl on RK Beach Road. The rent of the facility is Rs 15 lakh per annum. The project was proposed and a memorandum of understand was signed between Hoverdock and the tourism department at the CII Summit in 2016.
 
 
