KANPUR: A dalit woman threatened to worship in a mosque after the organiser of   threw away her '  thaal' in   area of   district. The woman,   (35), wife of Bablu, native of Naar Khurd village, lodged a complaint against five people, including the organiser of Bhagwat Katha accusing them of having prevented her from offering prayers in the katha on March 22. 

 In her complaint lodged on March 26 at Rasoolabad police station, Jai Devi alleged that some upper caste people, including one Narendra, Ajay, Rohit, Ambika and  , had prevented her from taking part in the 'Aarti' ritual, and in the process had thrown away her 'Aarti thaal' during Bhagwat Katha in their village. 
 
 "The organiser and his four aide opposed me from offering worship. When I resisted, they, after pushing me aside, threw away my 'Aarti thaal' and used caste insults against at me. When I questioned them, they threatened me of dire consequences. After being humiliated in public, I returned from the venue without performing 'Aarti' and apprised my husband about the ordeal, who approached Rasoolabad police station and lodged an FIR in this regard," Jai Devi said. Talking to TOI, Jai Devi and her husband Bablu said that they would embrace Islam and worship in a mosque on account of the discrimination and harassment they had suffered at the hands of the 'upper caste' villagers. "When they do not consider us a part of the Hindu community and use abusive language and castiest remarks against us, it is better for us to convert to Islam", they said. 
 
 Some upper caste member had allegedly stopped dalit woman from offering puja which led to resentment among the dalits. It was the fallout of a past dispute between a section of the people, said station house officer SK Singh. "A case under sections 147 (rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC, besides Prevention of Atrocity against Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Act was registered," he said. No arrests have been made so far and investigations are underway, he added.
 
 
