KOLKATA: The state government has proposed a flyover, connecting Ultadanga to   on VIP Road, to ease out traffic congestion on the   to Bangur stretch and further, reduce the travel time to the Kolkata airport.

 According to state secretariat sources, the state Public Works Department (PWD) is already working on the proposal’s feasibility report. Once the detailed project report is ready, it would take some 18 to 24 months to construct the flyover, sources said.
 
 According to plans, the proposed 2km, four-lane flyover would start from the spot where the Ultadanga flyover comes down from EM Bypass near  . It would move towards VIP Road via Lake Town and Bangur before coming down at Dum Dum Park. The Kestopur flyover starts some hundred meters from this spot.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Airport-bound vehicles, coming from either Ultadanga or EM Bypass, on the Ultadanga flyover would take the proposed flyover from Dakhindari to Dum Dum Park and then take the next flyover connecting Kestopur to  .
 
 The only issue which lies before the proposed flyover alignment, is that there are two concrete footbridges — one near   and another at Lake Town. In its feasibility report, PWD would have to decide whether these footbridges would be dismantled to make way for the flyover.
 
 The proposed flyover, once set up, would be the second flyover on VIP Road after the existing 2.2km, four-lane flyover from Kestopur to Baguiati which was inaugurated in May, 2015.
 
 “The proposed flyover would be a boon for frequent flyers like me. Once I almost missed a flight after being stuck in traffic,” said Pradipta Kumar Roy, international taekwondo instructor and a Salt Lake resident.
 
 “Reaching airport would become quite convenient if this flyover is set up. Though the Kestopur to Baguiati flyover has helped, the heavy traffic on VIP Road slows down airport-bound vehicles,” said Ballygunge resident Sandipon Bose, who is a technical manager of a petrochemical firm and often travels via air for work.
 
 “Besides reducing the travel time to airport, the proposed flyover would also help improve the connectivity for vehicles heading to Dum Dum Park from Nagerbazar,” said structural engineer Anjan Kumar Dutta.
 
 The PWD authorities have been working to develop smooth traffic management on VIP Road by setting up subways for pedestrians in Kestopur and Baguiati. Two more subways are coming up at Shreebhumi and Golaghata stoppages. The authorities have plans to set up more such subways on VIP Road.
 
