MUMBAI: At a time when the Centre has promised higher minimum support prices for crops, tur   from Maharashtra are still waiting for their dues totalling Rs   from central agency NAFED for stocks   since February.

 The National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) buys crops at MSP rates from farmers across the country. The network of MSP centres is managed by the states. Farmers have been demanding higher MSP for crops and have also been complaining that the centres open late, procure little and there are massive payment delays. Sadabhau Khot, junior minister for marketing, told the   council on Monday that   worth around Rs 830 crore had been procured in the state since February. However, Rs 800 crore dues are still to be paid to farmers.
 
 “We will be receiving Rs 500 crore from NAFED soon and clear the dues within a week. The state government has also extended bank guarantees worth Rs 200 crore,” he said. NAFED officials said Rs 500 crore has already been released and will be disbursed over the next few days.
 
 Officials say the payment delay was caused by lags in operationalizing the Central government’s bank guarantee to NAFED. “The Centre has given a Rs 19,000 crore bank guarantee to NAFED but it had not been operationalized till yesterday. Today, Rs 500 crore could be released for tur purchase in Maharashtra,” said a senior NAFED official.
 
 So far, 1.2 lakh farmers have sold their tur stocks at MSP centres. Around 3.5 lakh farmers have registered to sell tur to NAFED in the state. The state has 189 centres for tur purchase under the MSP. While the MSP for tur dal is Rs 5450 per quintal, the market price is much lower at around Rs 4,200.
 
 Officials say the tur procurement target for Maharashtra for this season is 44 lakh quintals. Of this, just around 15 lakh quintals have been procured so far. That’s just 34% of the target. The procurement which began on February 1 is expected to end on April 18.
 
 The reason procurement has been slow is lack of godown space to store tur dal purchased from farmers. Following bumper production of tur dal last year, NAFED had procured 75 lakh quintals from farmers in Maharashtra. Of this, only 10 lakh quintals has been sold.
 
 “The big question is that with the godowns full, where is the new tur dal being purchased to be stored? This is another reason why procurement is taking time,” said a senior official.
 
 Meanwhile, the state government is trying to resolve issues that are within its hands. “NAFED requires a warehousing certificate to release payments. We are expediting this process. We are also trying to make more godown space available,” says state agriculture secretary Bijay Kumar.
 
 
 
