Surat: Airports Authority of India (AAI) snatched away important capital work projects at Surat airport from under the authority and supervision of joint general manager (engineering and civil)   through an official order on Thursday.

 The AAI took the decision following a report published in TOI dated February 3, 2018, which highlighted the fact that Gupta was facing a criminal inquiry for having violated the Aircraft Act 1934 during his stint as airport director in Rajkot. 
 
 The TOI report highlighted a letter written by secretary of Rajkot district   Girish Parmar to civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju, demanding immediate transfer of Gupta from Surat to AAI headquarters in New Delhi. Parmar had expressed apprehensions that Gupta could jeopardize the developmental work going on at Surat airport. 
 
 Gupta, who was airport director of Rajkot, entered the cockpit of King Air (VT-FIU) that had come from Vadodara for calibration of landing systems on July 9, 2013, and allegedly ordered the pilot to fly to coastal areas around Porbandar. The aircraft went out of air traffic control (ATC) radar for around 15 minutes, triggering panic among security agencies. 
 
 A case was filed in Rajkot district court by   activist Anwar Umar Jakhiya demanding criminal inquiry against Gupta for violating the Aircraft Act, 1934. 
 
 The letter issued by AAI (copy of which is with TOI) stated that Gupta joined Surat as joint general manager (engineer and civil) after his transfer from   airport on February 1, 2018, and there will be distribution of work between him and deputy general manager S D Lalwani. 
 
 As per redistribution of the work, Lalwani will continue to look after the ongoing capital work, including re-carpeting, strengthening and extension of runway and construction of cargo building at the airport. Assistant general manager (AGM) S N Bheema and manager Prasad Paatil will report to Lalwani on the capital work. 
 
 An airport activist said, “The action taken by AAI against Gupta is commendable. He faces criminal inquiry and could have jeopardized the developmental work at Surat airport.”
 
 
