NEW DELHI: If an ordinary citizen feels safe in his home, a judge must conceivably feel more secure in his. However, an incident at the residence of additional district judge Gaurav Rao in south Delhi’s   on Saturday was enough to puncture holes in such a belief. A stranger entered the   that was packed with people and walked away with three inverter batteries without attracting any attention. 

 Rao’s father and former Delhi principal law secretary A S Yadav lodged an FIR for theft on Wednesday. Yadav told police that it was only on Tuesday, when there was a power failure, that the fact of the missing inverters was discovered. But the family said what shocked them more was the potential for mischief. “It is not about the batteries. The theft took place when where there were 10-15 children plus other relatives in the house for my son’s birthday,” the judge’s wife, Divya, told TOI. “Any unfortunate incident could have happened had anybody seen the act and intervened.”
 
 Referring to the man who stole the inverter batteries, Yadav’s FIR reads, “He took advantage of the fact that on that day it was the birthday of my grandson which was being celebrated and the gates were kept open for the guests who left at around 4.30 pm.”
 
 The inverter alarm going off on Tuesday during a power failure alerted the family to the missing batteries. When people went downstairs to the parking area, where the inverters were installed on the staircase, they were shocked to notice the theft. On checking the recording of the CCTV camera installed on the main gate of the house, the family could see an individual idling in the vicinity of the house around 5.30pm on Saturday. Some time later, the footage captured him entering the judge's house and exiting after seven minutes or so.
 
 The footage, scrutinised by the police too, then shows the same individual returning to the area in an autorickshaw around 5.45 pm and parking two houses away from the judge’s residence at J 164. The man then re-enters the compound. The man is also seen directing the autorickshaw driver to bring the vehicle inside the premises in order to carry away the heavy batteries. Five minutes later, the autorickshaw can be seen leaving the house with no one the wiser about the robbery.
 
 
