BIJNOR: Facing flak from opposition parties on Dalit issues, BJP is now grappling with growing dissent among its own MPs belonging to scheduled castes in Uttar Pradesh. The latest to join the group of MPs who have publicly expressed their happiness is party's Nagina MP Yashwant Singh. 

 In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a copy of which is with TOI, Singh lambasted his own government for not doing "a single work for the welfare of   in its four years in power". 
 
 "When Narendra Modi became the PM and made a statement that the BJP government will work for the welfare of the poor, Dalits and OBCs, it created hope in the heart of us all. But, nothing has been done for Dalits by the central government so far," read the letter dated April 2.
 
 The MP mentioned passage of quota bill, reservation in private jobs and clearing of backlog in SC/ST appointments as the matters of prime importance, "all of which have been ignore by the government".
 
 Singh said there was no representation of Dalit Samaj in courts. "As a result, courts were coming up with new verdicts aimed at curtailing our rights every day," he wrote. 
 
 "In the present situation, BJP's Dalit MPs are victims of daily harassment from own Samaj. It has become difficult for us to respond," Singh wrote.
 
 When asked about the MPs' letters to PM, deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was in Bijnor on Saturday, said, "This is not a revolt, but democracy. All leaders have right to put their problems before PM."
 
 In recent days, after the SC order striking down mandatory arrest under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, a few of BJP's Dalit MPs have expressed grievances against the leadership. Apart from Singh, party's Etawah MP Ashok Kumar Dohrey has said Dalits and tribals are being framed in false cases. Previously, Robertsganj MP Chhotelal wrote to Modi and accused UP CM Yogi Adityanath of pulling him up. Bahraich MP Savitribai Phule has held a "save Constitution" rally against the SC order.
 
 When Modi became the PM and made a statement that the BJP govt will work for the welfare of the poor, Dalits and OBCs, it created hope in our hearts. But, nothing has been done for Dalits by the central government so far 
 
 
