Ludhiana: Jeet Kaur, a 100-year-old voter from Dugri — who was born in Pakistan, and whose son is an alcoholic — came to cast her vote at a polling station in Dugri. The centenarian acknowledges that her vote and votes of those who have been voting does make a difference to the city and the state. But she is desperate for an end to drug and liquor abuse in the state.

 “It costs us nothing if we can spare some time and vote for our candidates in the elections. If our vote can do something good to a politician who is hard-working, then everyone should vote. Our area is well-developed, as we have better roads, garbage is lifted frequently, and there is not much water-logging, but still the elected representatives can bring more positive changes. I wish the councillor, along with the police, can tackle the drug and liquor abuse in Punjab, so that thousands of households don’t have to undergo such devastation,” said Jeet, who says she has crossed 100 years of age. “I know my only son might not survive for long, as he has a severe addiction to liquor, but I want the coming generation to live longer.”
 
 The centenarian said because of the liquor addiction of her 50-year-old son Jagjeet Singh, she had to sell her television, radio, and even beds. She added that her four daughters were well off, and have grandchildren. “I’m living with my daughter in Karnal, and I get ration from the government. I might not live much longer, but I want to see a drug-free state before I depart from this world,” she said, while sitting in a corner near the voting area at Dugri school, where she cast her vote early in the morning.
 
 The elderly woman said they lived in Taaban near Lahore before partition, and her father and other family members migrated from there. She added that her father Amar Singh was a subedar in the army, and she was raised in Pune. “My father later married me to Gurdayal Singh, who worked as a carpenter in Karnal. He died seven years ago,” she said, adding that she was now just passing her time on earth.
 
 
