Pune: With the deadline for the implementation of Bharat Stage VI emission norms looming over the industry, Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) — a Pune-based automotive research lab — has decided to take the virtual route to fast-track engine certification.   The government has announced an unprecedented jump to BS-VI standards beginning April 1, 2020, from the present BS-IV standards. BS-VI equivalent standards are currently in vogue in the US, Europe and a few other nations.    "The calibration centre is capable of undertaking up to 60% of the calibration process of engine virtually with 80% accuracy," ARAI said in a statement.    Even though the target set for rest of India is April 1, 2020, considering the heightened pollution in Delhi, it has been decided to introduce BS-VI in the capital from April 1, 2018. Some carmakers have already introduced their BS-VI models and the government has stated that BS-VI fuel will be available from April 1, 2018.    “To make the process faster, a certain amount of calibration can be done through simulation. The benefits of this centre will include the saving of time and cost, and without CO2 emission,” the research agency said.    N V Marathe, the deputy director of ARAI, said the virtual centre can be used to test not only automotive internal combustion engines but also engines of other applications.    On Wednesday, the ARAI also unveiled the environment research laboratory that will be equipped to collect, measure and analyse tailpipe emissions from the vehicles.    The advent of BS-VI, though positive from an emissions viewpoint, may not alter the air quality significantly in the initial few years as vehicles of inferior emission standards (BS-I to BS-IV) will continue to ply on the roads.    “If the government is serious about controlling emissions, it should also announce a policy to phase out the old BS-I and BS-II vehicles,” said a CEO of an automaker.    It is learnt that the government is giving final touches to a scrapping policy that will allow customers a credit (for trading in their old vehicles) when they go out to buy new vehicles.     