It was a Dangal moment for   (SPPU) when the varsity recently bagged second prize at the All India Inter University Wrestling Competition, organised by the  , at Rohtak, Haryana. The varsity had sent a 14-member team for the freestyle wrestling competition, where Akshay Hirgude, Markad Sagar, Tukaram Shitole and Akshay Kawre (students from Pune and Nagar colleges under SPPU) won medals. “In previous years, our students have won one or two medals. This year, they have done an exceptional job and secured the second position among varsities in the country,” says  , director, sports,  .

 The students, who have come home victorious from a competition that featured over 95 colleges from across India, attribute their success to the facilities and initiatives taken by their university for the betterment of sportspersons. Tukaram Shitole, one of the medal winners, shares, “The facilities provided by the university – besides various initiatives like providing equipment and marks – keeps us motivated and is the support we need.” 
 
 Seconding his peer, Akshay Kawre, another medal winner, says, “We usually practice for hours and have to go out of station for matches. So there are times where we miss lectures and that affects our academics. But the varsity supports us. Also, recent changes like government jobs for the winners from varsity level competitions are a major encouragement for students.”
 
 
  
 
 According to  , vice-chancellor of SPPU, the students on the university campus will soon be able to enjoy new facilities like a badminton court and shooting range. He says, “We are focusing on other sports as well. Our state-of-the-art tennis court is ready and the work on the badminton court will be finished soon. We will also have a rifle range for shooting practice and a hockey field too.” Besides facilities, students who secure medals at the All India Inter University level receive cash prizes as well. Glen Pillai, captain of the cricket team of a college that comes under the university says, “We get cash prizes of Rs.10,000, Rs.7,000 and Rs.5,000 for gold, silver and bronze medals respectively, in individual events and Rs.7,000, Rs.5,000 and Rs.3,000 for team events. These prizes are a big help as they allow us to buy or upgrade our equipment for personal practice and training.”
 
 “Movies and media play an important role in the life of sportspersons. Previously, the focus was only on cricket. but now the overall focus is shifting to different sports. Biopics on sports persons from Milkha Singh to the upcoming movie one Saina Nehwal and many more are changing the scenario. At the same time, we cannot forget efforts taken by our students. So the varsity provides funds to its colleges for development of sports infrastructure.” — Deepak Mane, director, sports, SPPU
 
 
  
 
