GURUGRAM: Here’s a festival that seeks to introduce design-centric practices, solo and collaborative, from across disciplines, and with an eclectic audience in mind.

 “Young entrepreneurial designers who don’t have a store to showcase their work – that is the main mandate of the festival,” shares curator  .
 
 Now into its fifth year, the Windmill Design Festival is staying true to its aspiration of providing a platform for up-and-coming designers, individuals and organisations, to showcase their creations.
 
 The event is a joint initiative of   and Pure Ghee Designs. Prakash, whose labour of love the spring fest is, says the focus this year is on the home, and objects and details related to domesticity. “It has been curated keeping that in mind,” Prakash told TOI.
 
 For example, the aforesaid Windmill Furniture will be debuting garden accessories here. “It’s an interesting area because a lot of people want to get into growing their own herbs and vegetables and stuff,” revealed Prakash.
 
 Pradeep Sachdeva, principal at Pradeep Sachdeva Design Associates, added that besides promoting talented designers to help them reach a wider audience, the festival also seeks to embrace kids as much as it does the artistes, by offering educational and interactive sessions for them.
 
 Indeed, there’s plenty of activities for the young ones to look forward to over the two days, including storytelling by  , paper-toy making by   — an NGO that uses art to address the needs of kids who have special needs, or those who’re marginalised — and pottery by Muddy Waters.
 
 And the nosh on the premises of 1, Windmill Place (home of the studios of Windmill Furniture, hosts of the two-day fest), will be prepared using wholly organic ingredients, sourced from the farm of an animal activist who has gone on to grow her own produce. 
 
 The café will be run by Aparna Rajagopal, whose Beejom animal farm in Noida endeavours to provide city folks with ingredients for clean and healthy living.
 
 In the last few years, a community of dedicated artists has sprung up around the studios in  , on the Gurugram-Delhi border. Amid the hustle and mazy charm of an urban village, the scene here is likely what it once was in places like the Hauz Khas village and Shahpur Jat. It will, hopefully, remain so for many years yet.
 
 Besides Windmill Furniture, which deals with artisanal and traditional wooden furniture, and Pure Ghee Designs that deals with bags and fabric jewellery, the cluster of new brands that will be taking part in the 2018 edition include Design Foundry (interiors), Loha Smith (home décor), Muddy Waters (pottery and ceramics), Taamaa (home décor), Flora for Fauna (apparel), Cevvanti (home décor), Studio Irregular Beauty (handmade ceramics, porcelain and wooden jewellery), OHPA Designs (soft toys) and Jan Madhyam.
 
 Catch the Windmill Design Festival on February 3 and 4 (with an evening of Latin music on February 2).
 
 
