Shruti Haasan is known for her kitschy sense of style and her Mumbai apartment that had a pink piano was the talk of the celebrity social circles. Now, in her fancy London pad, we hear from her close pal, she has some really fancy artefacts, including a spike-studded mirror and a gothic statement piece. She’s a woman of taste and it shows in both her home and man, Michael Corsales. 
 
  
 
 These two actors who featured in a movie with a transgender character, apparently made so many passes at her that she broke down while narrating the story to her close friends. It seems these not-so-fair actors would compliment her and one of them (actor/producer) even promised her a bike. She said NO, and proudly told them to shove it where it fits. 
  
  
 
 The morning walking battalion at the prestigious Boat Club suburb is abuzz with talk about these two women who come from a far away suburb just to be seen in the posh locality. From morning selfies with influential people in the background to posing with Parked cars, these two ladies are quite the butt of kitty party jokes. 
  
  
 
 While Rajini’s presence at Natchatra Vizha in Malaysia drowned out all the buzz surrounding any other actor, people were game to go any length to take a selfie with him. One of the funniest was this doe-eyed baby-faced actress, literally on her knees while he sat on his airplane seat. It looked a bit too try-hard.
  
  
 Lt. governor of  , it seems, has personally attended to her garden at Raj Niwas. While the entire Official home of the governor is vegetarian, we hear all her staff has started practising vegetarianism at their own homes. Last heard, Ms Bedi has ordered for indigenous trees to be planted in her own garden instead of the fancy varieties most prefer. 
  
  
 
 If sources are to be believed,  , of one of Tamil Nadu’s most popular department store owners, and the man who has Hansika and Tamannaah dancing to his tunes, has a large heart. We heard that if he likes his visitors, he grabs a handful of one-sovereign   coins and gifts it to his unsuspecting guests. 
  
  
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
  
  
  
