NEW DELHI: NDMC can float tenders to invite bids for auctioning of the iconic   Hotel with the   on Friday refusing to   in the process as pleaded by the Tata group-owned Indian Hotels Company Limited (IHCL) which runs the hotel.

 IHCL approached the apex court challenging the order of the Delhi high court which had dismissed its plea challenging the tender procedure for the proposed   of the luxury hotel by New Delhi Municipal Council. The   on May 22 rejected the plea of IHCL and allowed NDMC to proceed with the auction. The court said it is “apparent that the complex nature of eligibility conditions that NDMC has insisted upon, while considering tenders for the hotel plot, are based on thought and deliberation” and refused to intervene in a policy decision.
 
 Challenging the HC order, senior advocate  , appearing for IHCL, contended that an essential condition with respect to its unblemished track record had not been properly factored into the eligibility conditions and it was against the 2017 order of the apex court.
 
 The apex court in 2017 asked IHCL to participate in the open auction conducted by the property owner NDMC. 
 
 A vacation bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and MM Shantanagoudar said incorporating such conditions would drive other bidders from participating in the auction process and refused to interfere in the process. “The auction is yet to take place. Why are you speculating at this stage? The court has not given the manner and method of giving weightage. But the bidders are aware that some weightage will be given to you. This is not an examination where weightage can be recorded by way of any marks,” the bench said
 
 Sensing the mood of the court, Singhvi then pleaded the court to allow it to withdraw the appeal which was permitted by the bench.
 
 “IHCL has withdrawn the special leave petition before the SC as the court was not inclined at this point to intervene in the ongoing tender process for the licensing rights of Taj Mansingh. We reiterate that the Supreme Court in its order dated 20th April 2017 has recorded that the unblemished track record of Indian Hotels and its capabilities would have to be taken into account by NDMC while taking a final decision; and that NDMC had also stated before the Delhi high court that the SC order was to be one of the factors which would be taken into account while evaluating the bids. We remain confident of our credentials and convinced that our continued partnership with NDMC will ensure the success of this iconic hotel,” IHCL said in a statement. 
 
 
