When IT professional Karthik met Richard on a gay   website in October 2017, they connected instantly. Within days, he was sharing intimacies with Richard over video calls and messages. A month later, Richard sent him a message that he might be coming to India. Karthik, a Bengaluru resident, was beside himself with joy. However, soon the messages started to peter out. Confused and hurt, 31-year-old Karthik messaged Richard, a UK resident, who told him that he had to cancel his travel plans because his mother had been diagnosed with cancer and he had no money.

 
 It seemed a minor hiccup. Karthik suggested that she be brought to India for cheaper treatment. He also lent him amounts like Rs 20,000-Rs 30,000 initially for tickets and emergency hospital trips, but the sums grew. Over a month he had lent Rs 2.2 lakh, and yet there was no sign of Richard. Frustrated and angry, Karthik snapped at his friend over the phone. The line went dead instantly. ‘’I was never able to speak to Richard again,’’ Karthik says. It took several days before he realised that Richard had conned him. Karthik debated whether to complain to the police and then decided against it. More than the money, it was the heartbreak that he had a hard time dealing with. 
 
  and   have become a hunting ground for con artists, as an increasing number of Indians log in for hookups, romance and if luck holds, true love. Using fake profiles, scammers troll for the lonely and the vulnerable. They promise love and marriage and build what feels like a very real relationship to the victim. But the search for Cupid ends up in a broken heart, and a lower bank balance much like Karthik.
 
 The “crisis’’ that scamsters cite ranges from family health problems, a job loss or help to set up a new business. Police say Nigerian conmen, always looking for newer and more inventive ways to scam people, are quite actively running the “sweetheart swindle”. A popular ploy they use is telling the victim that they’ve brought an expensive gift but it’s stuck at the airport and tempt him or her to pay ‘’custom duties’’. There is also the ‘’Russian wives scam’’ that targets middle-aged men, blackmailing them for money after luring them with explicit conversation.
 
 It doesn’t always stop with money. Dushyant Sharma’s search for a date ended in death earlier this month. Dushyant, a small-time contractor from Jaipur, pretended to be a Delhi-based crorepati on Tinder. His ruse backfired when 27-year-old Puja Seth, who was working with a gang that blackmailed men with fake rape cases, decided he would make the perfect target. The date from hell soured when Puja realized that Dushyant could not shell out the Rs 10 lakh they wanted. The result: the gang chopped him to pieces to stop him from going to the police.
 
 Police officials across cities vouch for the fact that most social media-related crimes go unreported and less than 10% of people file FIRs for fear of public ridicule and embarrassment. “Dating websites have emerged as a prominent cyber-crime platform. Most of the victims are women. Men also become victims, in cases where women lure them to siphon off their wealth, citing financial problems,” says ACP Harinath, Cybercrime, Hyderabad.
 
 Like Jaipur-based Sanjay, a MNC executive, who accepted a Facebook friend request from Meera, a college student from Delhi in her early 20s. The two started chatting online and soon hit it off. Within six months, Meera had proposed marriage, a move that 31-year-old Sanjay calls a “masterstroke” as it made him emotionally invested in the relationship that started in 2014.
 
 The two would meet on weekends or whenever Sanjay visited Delhi for work. Around this time, she also started asking him for money. “Initially, it was small amounts to recharge her phone, book tickets, or pay fees for coaching, swimming or dancing classes,” Sanjay recalls. Meera also told him that her father was very strict, and wanted to get her married at a young age. “She said she wanted to do a lot in life, but he refused her requests,” says Sanjay.
 
 Gradually, the amount rose. Once, Meera asked for Rs 5 lakh to pay for a cousin’s heart treatment, asking him to split up the deposit into multiple accounts to avoid being scolded by her father.
 
 Suspicious, Sanjay began questioning her. “She’d just say, help me if you’re friend.” Soon after, Meera had started avoiding his calls, prompting Sanjay to hire a private detective who discovered that Meera had extorted money from others in a similar manner. When Sanjay confronted her and asked her to return his money, Meera threatened to file a rape case against him. Afraid, Sanjay decided to break all contact. “When I look back, I realise that I was an emotional fool. I’m still recovering from the financial and emotional loss,” says Sanjay, who estimates he gave her Rs 25 to 30 lakh over a period of three years.
 
 An online survey conducted by   in 2017 found a devil-may-care attitude among online dating users. One in ten had shared their address, work or personal family details and even intimate photos of themselves publicly, exposing themselves to being targeted. The 32-country survey assessed 21,081 users including India.
 
 Altaf Halde, global business head of cyber security firm Network Intelligence, says these scams are run by organised syndicates. “The bad guys work like a corporate organisation. They have a lead generation mechanism to identify vulnerable targets, a payment gateway where money is transferred, and use of darkweb to make tracking difficult,’’ he says.
 
 Some dating apps are waking up to the problem. Truly Madly co-founder Rahul Kumar says they use several verification mechanisms to keep fake profiles to a minimum. “We have a strict reporting and flagging policy, and if something looks fishy, we block both the user and his device permanently.” It has also partnered with Yoti, a digital identity app. As we live more of our lives online and the risks of identity theft and frauds grow, says Madhu Nori of Yoti, it’s important for websites to ensure that each profile is genuine. 
 
 
 
 * If the person supposedly comes from an English-speaking nation, then bad spelling and grammar are a giveaway that something is not right
 
 * If profile descriptions read too smooth, then you need to worry as well. Often, scammers don’t bother writing their own material, but lift it from other dating profiles
 
 * Legitimate users often post links to their favorite bands, travel destinations or hobbies, scammers typically fill their profiles with links to low-quality “spam” sites
 
 * Use a digital identity app to ensure the person and profile is genuine
 
 * Don’t part with a dime. Any genuine dater is looking for love, not money
  
 
 
 
 
 
