CHANDIGARH: If you walk a little on the road outside the scrap market in Sector 45-A, a dominant stench will surround you. Look closer and you’ll see sewage accumulated on a road next to the main dumpster. The culprit is a leaking   next to park railing.

 The road is marked with potholes and the pavement next to the metal barrier is covered in waste water. This sewage has overflowing into a park next to a temple. Sewage has also gathered on the road and become a source of nuisance for the entire neighbourhood.
 
 Several liters of sewage has been overflowing for two days. “We cannot even sit outside. Look at the condition of this place. It is covered in smelly water and even walking here is difficult,” Manoj, a mechanic, sipping tea on the roadside pavement, inches away from the puddle, said.
 
 The sweage has got mixed with garbage spilled out of the dumpster and turned into wet waste, making the situation even worse. “Animal excreta is part of this mix now. It sticks to people’s shoes and a big part of the road is covered with sludge,” said  , a rickshaw-puller.
 
 The punctured underground sewer is next to the Pracheen Jwalamukhi Mandir. Devotees and the priest and his family are exposed to the stink while eating or cooking food. Temple priest   said: “The leakage happens at different times of the year but no one fixes it permanently. It’s hard to bear the stench for even a minute but we have to live with it 24x7. Sometimes, we can't even eat because of it. In summer and monsoon, puddles become home to flies and mosquitoes that gave dengue fever to my daughter this season. Many other people from this locality also fell sick.”
 
 Several other points across the   block had similar leaks before. “One of the leaks was outside of my house almost a month ago, and the sewage covered the entire park. This is a regular affair here,” said  , a nearby resident. Complaints to the municipal corporation from   villagers and the Housing Board Colony residents have gone unheard. 
 
 Sector 45-A RWA president   said: “The scrap market of Burail is built over the sewer line, which is why the line gets punctured every other day. The market is an illegal settlement. Repairs have no effect.” Another RWA member said: “The ground can’t take the pressure of the cars that come to the market for dismantling. Their weight ruptures the underground pipes.”
 
 
