JAIPUR: Prime Minister   on Thursday will announce the expansion of ' ' (BBBP) programme from the existing 161 to 640 districts all over the country and launch the National Nutrition Mission on the occasion of International Women's Day, in  . 

 Recently, Jhunjhunu attained a remarkable achievement from having the worst sex ratio at birth among Rajasthan districts to attaining minimum gender gap. According to 2011 census, the ratio was 837 girls per 1,000 boys. After seven years, the sex ratio is 955 girls per 1,000 boys.
 
 A statement by the women and child development ministry stated that the PM will interact with beneficiary mothers and girl children and will distribute certificates to best performing districts under BBBP programme. He will also launch the National Nutrition Mission (NNM) from Jhunjhunu. The mission is aimed at reducing under-nutrition and low birth weight, bring down anaemia among young children, women and adolescent girls and to reduce the prevalence of stunting among children, it stated.
 
 State nodal officer Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP) Jagdish Prasad said, "Jhunjhunu has hogged limelight not only because of significant increases in sex ratio at birth and increasing enrollment of girls in schools but also due to the efforts and initiatives taken at different levels to change mindset of people towards girl child. Initiatives like Apna Bachha Apna Vidhyalaya, celebration of birth of girl child, free coaching for competitive exams for girls initiative taken by collector, plantation done on birth of girl child. These are some of the initiatives which brought along with them positive changes," said Prasad.
 
 In the event, girls from government school will also take part. The government has directed all 90 senior secondary schools of Jhunjhunu to send atleast 50 girls of class X and XII. Besides, a large number of people will come from different districts to take part in the event. Entire air stripe at Jhunjhunu is now covered with tents.
 
 On Wednesday, preparations for the grand event were on at a full swing. Chief minister   also reached Jhunjhunu to take stock of the preparations. Also, the police took over the air stripe where the event would be held, in their control. Senior policemen were seen allotting duties to policemen. Besides, a giant screen has also been installed at the stage of the venue, which will be used to show videos on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao.
 
 
