NEW DELHI: Criminals intercepted a cash van in outer Delhi's   area on Thursday afternoon, shot dead the guard and the custodian and escaped with Rs 12 lakh. 

 
 The entire heist took less than five minutes, witnesses said. The guard was shot close to 15 times and the custodian took about four bullets to the body. Thursday's robbery and murders came just over 48 hours after armed men had shot at cash van personnel in the same area. 
 
  
  
  The incident, which took place at around 2.30pm in a crowded market near   shopping complex, triggered panic amongst residents and traders. The criminals are learnt to have fired around two dozen bullets during the holdup. While police are clueless about the identity and whereabouts of the perpetrators, police brass are learnt to have ordered the crime branch and special cell to track them down. 
 
 The deceased guard has been identified as   and the custodian as Rajani Kant Singh.
 
 
 
 The van, belonging to SIS Securities, had arrived there to collect cash from a businessman after making collections from six-seven points.
 
 The guard and the cashier had been stowing the cash in the van when three men on a motorcycle, all wearing crash helmets, arrived and started firing indiscriminately. Prem and Rajani Kant, hit multiple times, were killed where they stood. The bikers then took the cash box and fled after firing a few rounds in the air to scare the public.
 
 Cash vans and cash collections agents have been targeted in the city by armed criminals on at least three other occasions — apart from Thursday’s robbery-murders and an abortive attempt on April 24. On March 26, criminals had attacked and looted a cash van of Rs 16 lakh in Sultanpuri area; on March 14, two cash collection agents were robbed at gunpoint of Rs 16 lakh in Dwarka; and on February 4, three people had fled with Rs 10 lakh after shooting at a cash van in Rohini’s Sector 5.
 
 Devender, an employee of the liquor shop from where the two had collected cash on Thursday, said, “They had left the shop barely two minutes ago, after collecting the cash, when we heard gunshots. I rushed to see what had happened and saw them firing nonstop.”
 
 Later, people at the attack site put the bodies in the cash van itself. The police was informed and a person then drove them to the nearby Harishchandra Hospital where they were declared dead on arrival. Police teams then rushed to the spot to inspect the crime scene.
 
 All border check posts and beat officers have been alerted to keep a watch on suspicious movements in the area. DCP (Rohini) Rajneesh Gupta said a case has been registered under IPC sections dealing with murder and under sections of the Arms Act. Since the robbery and murders occurred barely a few kilometers from the Delhi-Haryana border, cops suspect the involvement of criminals based in Haryana.
 
 “The criminals were aware about the route and timings of the van so there is a high possibility of an insider being involved,” a senior police officer said. The antecedents of the driver who escaped despite the fusillade are being ascertained and he is being probed for more details.
 
 
 
