There was a dream — to do one film and I have now,” says comic-turned-actor,  , who soon brings to the big screen his alter ego, Nograj, a character that Bengalureans have been familiar with through his popular radio prank call spot and online videos. Taking this one-man show into film format, though, was an operation involving two other creative minds, apart from Danish, namely director  , and stand-up comedian  , who filled in as dialogue writer and actor, among others. Together, the three of them stitched together Humble Politician   and here’s their journey. 

 
 
 Saad and I met when I came across the show he was running, Improv, which I became a part of. Saad wanted to make a feature film and we both even wrote one, which didn’t get made. At that point, we thought that Nograj could only be a character in a film, and not have an entire one centred around him. But then I began doing live videos on social media as Nograj, which had a steady following. Two of those videos literally proved to be the tipping point in terms of getting us to do the film. The first was around the time of demonetization and had me as Nograj crying while lamenting about what I would do with all my black money. And the second was with Nograj at the Museum of Sex in New York, I picked up on the subject that Indian culture is great and how it doesn’t allow such exhibits, while also calling for a ban on it. That video went viral and in today’s scenario, interestingly, culture is the bone of contention in most issues in society.
 So, I called Saad and told him that I am ready to make a film on Nograj. The best bit about our collaboration is that he is a great storyteller, while I excel at telling jokes. We discussed plot points and deliberated over everything. Our first job was to create characters around Nograj. 
 While I had mentioned Manjunath (his PA) and Lavanya (his wife) in my videos, I had never shown them physically, so we began there and put a whole background together for the story and characters. We relied on the existing system in society to formulate a film, keeping the focus on content. Saad and I wrote the script in English, but we were making a Kannada film and that’s where Vamsidhar came in. He had called me asking if there was anything he could do on the film and I thought that he was the perfect guy to write the film in Kannada. Saad agreed and funnily, Vamsi eventually ended up being more than just a writer, filling in as actor, and helping with production on set.
 Today, whatever you see onscreen, writing it was a three-man job, but Saad brought it all alive.
 
  
 
 Danish is quite the perfectionist, and when we wrote the story, one thing that he was very clear about is that we had to make sure that our entertainment doesn’t become slapstick comedy. We wanted to keep the comedy, story-and-character driven. What would Nograj do to make people laugh. That led us on a good journey of writing. We wrote the story in a week and then the screenplay, all the while keeping dialogues open. We then had another session during which I threw situations at Danish to see how Nograj would react. But given that we liked to improvise, even these were bettered on set.
 Vamsi came onboard later, after our producers, Pushkar and   gave us the go ahead. He gave us a third person perspective on how we could get the best out of each scene. What we wanted from him was conversational Kannada, and that process was very ably handed. We gave him all the freedom, provided it was not hardcore, as satire can only be presented if the language is simple. We also got valuable inputs from  , who is on the production team. 
 Overall, in terms of writing, we never divided work and   is a collaborative effort, but yes, I had freedom with the visualization.
 
 
 
 I had called Danish to ask if I could audition for a small role, but then he asked if I could chip in as a writer. I read the script and found it so good, that I decided to have a go at it. They had a beautiful diamond in hand, I just had to polish that. This being a Kanglish film eased the burden, but even then, there was a lot of brainstorming that went on between Saad, Danish and me. 
 We had to keep it as simple as possible, because Nograj has more fans in urban areas. His strength is in the metros; there is no point in losing out on that by having heavy Kannada.
 
