LUCKNOW: The state government, late on Wednesday night, decided to lodge an FIR against BJP   Kuldeep Singh Sengar in connection with the rape of a teenaged   resident and refer it for a probe by the   (CBI). The government also decided to recommend a   probe into the alleged murder of the rape survivor’s father in judicial custody.

 The government decision for a CBI probe came just after Sengar made a dramatic appearance at the official residence of Lucknow police chief to announce that he had no role in the rape of the Unnao teenager and death of her father in judicial custody. The government also announced suspension of two senior doctors of Unnao district hospital and disciplinary action against three other doctors of the jail department for dereliction in duty and negligence in attending to the rape survivor’s father, who died on Tuesday in judicial custody.
 
 Adeputy superintendent of police rank officer has been suspended for not attending to the repeated complaints of the rape survivor and her family.
 
 Principal secretary (Home), Arvind   said the decision was taken on the basis of the interim report submitted by the additional director general ( ), Lucknow Zone, Rajeev Krishna on Wednesday evening.
 
 
 
 
 Krishna was heading the SIT constituted by the government to probe into the allegations against the MLA and his brother.
 
 Action against the government doctors was initiated on the basis of separate inquiry reports submitted by deputy inspector general (DIG-Prisons), Love Kumar and district magistrate (DM) Unnao on the role of jail administration and doctors who attended to the rape survivor’s father before he was sent to jail in connection with a case of assault.
 
 Just before the probe report was made public, Sengar, surrounded by media persons and policemen, trashed speculations that he had come to surrender before the police and left with his entourage as a posse of cops present at the scene looked on.
 
 Talking to the media, Sengar claimed that a section of the media had reported that he has gone underground since morning. “I was attending to my wife who has been hospitalized after she took ill. I have come to meet the SSP and tell him that I am every much here,” he said. Asked about the alleged rape of the teenager and death of her father in judicial custody, the   MLA said he had no role in the two incidents and was open to probe by any investigating agency.
 
 The high drama that began at 11:36pm lasted six minutes after which he got back into his SUV and left as his supporters followed him in a fleet of luxury vehicles. Speculations that police action will be initiated against the MLA started doing the rounds minutes after the special investigation team (SIT) constituted by the UP Police submitted its interim report on, among other things, the role of the MLA in the rape case and the alleged murder of the survivor’s father in judicial custody, before chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday night. The MLA’s brother Atul Singh has already been arrested in connection with the murder of rape survivor’s father.
 
 The MLA and his supporters, moving in a fleet of over 40 SUVs, though did not enter the official residence of the SSP and left after being informed by one of his associates that the officer was not present. “Ab nahin hain to wapas ja raha hoon… jahan bulaoge aa jaonga,” (Now that SSP is not at home, I am going back… I will come wherever I am called), he said as he got into his SUV and drove off.
 
