CHENNAI: The arrest of a doctor earlier this week for a   that resulted in the death of a 24-year-old woman has led officials to a human trafficking racket involving the sale of babies from unwanted pregnancies. 

 When the district police detained Selvamba Rajkumar for the bungled abortion that cost Lakshmi Manigandan her life in Vazhapadi, a panchayat town 30km east of Salem, she had a tip to offer: A middle-aged man (name and details withheld) in Chittoor,  , acted as a broker in a  , she said.
  
  
 Officials from AP,   and the Union health ministry confronted the man on Thursday and he admitted to working as a go-between for doctors, pregnant women and childless couples.
 
 Flipping under pressure, the middleman cut a deal to be an approver, a Union health ministry official said. The man described a well-oiled network of doctors and brokers involved in fetal gender determination, illegal abortions and sale of babies.
 
 The man said he had witnessed various illegal activities in the town, the official said, but investigators are yet to determine how many children the cartel trafficked or how many sex-selective abortions took place. He led the team to another broker, Sunitha, who worked for a gynaecologist, Shobha, of Shiva Prakash Nursing Home, Chittoor. The team sent a pregnant woman to the nursing home as a decoy.
 
 "After taking 6,000 from the woman's relatives, Sunitha took her to Dr Shobha," a state health official said. The team caught them revealing the sex of the fetus. An official who accompanied the decoy recorded the conversations. Officials booked them under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994. They soon detained a radiologist, Chandramma, who provided sex determination services after duty hours in Andhra Pradesh government service. The officials found at least a dozen women from Tamil Nadu in each AP clinic offering fetal sex determination. 
 
 After a two-year crackdown, Tamil Nadu officials are now arresting violators. They have booked 126 people under the PCPNDT Act and arrested two suspects. DSP A Thomas Prabakar said setting traps for offenders is not easy - despite the government last week deciding to pay decoys. "We train women to act as decoys," he said. "But it is a continuous process because only women in their second trimester (four to five months pregnant) can be taken for scans."
 
 The state's sex ratio dipped to 912 in 2015-16, 911 the next year and is now at 921.
 
 
