MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a sensational twist in the alleged case of   of a woman on   highway on May 6 where the complainant had claimed that she was raped in a moving car and her child was thrown out of the vehicle, police on Thursday arrested the woman and claimed that she had “acted at the behest of the rivals of the accused”.
 
  According to officials, the 27-year-old complainant was “hired” by three men — Faisal Ahmed (28), Shamim (25) and Rajni (22) — who wanted to settle scores with the main accused in the case, Ravindra Kumar Mahto.
  
  According to police, Mahto had filed a case of fraud against Faial Ahmed in Haridwar last year for not returning Rs 3 lakh he had lent him. 
  
  Apart from the woman, the cops have also arrested Rajni and Faisal, while Shamim is on the run. They have been booked under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) 420 (cheating) and 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the IPC.
  
  At a press conference on Thursday, Muzaffarnagar SP (city) Omveer Singh said, “The allegation of rape was completely false. After investigation, police have found that the complainant and Rajni knew each other and Rajni was in touch with Shamim and Faisal. Together they hatched a conspiracy against Mahto. The woman was offered Rs 40,000 to register a rape case against him.” The three of them were produced before the magistrate and have been sent to jail, the SP said.
  
  On May 8, the woman had approached Chhapar police station and claimed that she was raped by Mahto in a moving car and her three-year-old child was thrown out of the vehicle on May 6. The complainant said that later, she was abandoned near Sisona village in Muzaffarnagar.
  
  In her complaint, the woman had claimed that she was approached by Mehto to discuss a job offer. She said that the accused offered her a cold drink laced with sedatives after which he brutalized her.
  
  During the investigation, police found out that the complainant was in Haridwar on May 6.
