NEW DELHI:   is slowing limping back to normalcy, three days after 23-year-old Ankit Saxena was killed in cold blood by the relatives of his girlfriend. Neighbours said that the tension between the families of the youth, a  , and his girlfriend had   over the past   and peaked on August 15 last year when Ankit was   by the woman’s father. However, the RWA had stepped in and resolved the matter.

 Things started to sour when the woman’s father first accused Ankit’s friend Azhar of stalking her when he had gone to deliver a message from him a year ago. This resulted in a heated argument after Ankit intervened to save his friend, neighbours said.
 
 The friends of the deceased have started a Facebook page — RIPAnkitSaxeNA — and have also appealed to keep the issue away from being communal.
 
 Ankit’s aunt, Anita, recalled that the woman’s family used to live two blocks away from the Saxenas and the children of both families grew up together. When they were children, they referred to each other as brother and sister. But love blossomed when they reached adulthood.
 
 “We came to know about their affair in 2016 when my sister, Bhavna, found the woman’s photograph in Ankit’s phone. He tried to play it down saying he had photos of many friends on his phone, but eventually we realised what was going on,” said Aman Narang, one of Ankit’s childhood friends.
 
 The youth’s friends decided to keep the affair under wraps to avoid a confrontation since the woman’s father was known to pick up fights. Last year, Ankit had bought her a mobile phone through which she kept in touch with him. The family was unaware of it until Tuesday when her brother discovered the phone and read the messages.
 
 The budding photographer always joked with his parents about marrying someone chosen by his father. His cousin, Ashish Duggal, said Ankit’s parents wouldn’t have opposed the relationship if they had known about it. The couple had recently met at a wedding party near their house when Ankit introduced her to his relatives.
 
 The woman’s cousins said that the couple’s secret meetings at metro stations and malls became increasingly difficult since her mother had started suspecting about the affair. She often accompanied the woman to the metro station and back. Ankit took the help of his friends to pass on messages to her.
 
 “On the day of the incident, they had planned to meet and discuss the future course of action,” said the woman’s cousin. The woman’s grandmother said, “We had fixed her marriage with another man, but she lied to us about her eagerness to continue with her studies. We opposed the relationship not only due to religious differences, but also because we felt the boy would not be able to provide for her.”
 
