PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor of universities Satya Pal Malik on Saturday exhorted students of Patna Women’s College ( ) to stand up for their rights and raise voice against any kind of violation and harassment. 

 Addressing the students at the annual day function of the college, Malik said, “There is no dearth of knowledge in our students. All they need is right platform to excel. Country’s growth is not possible without education. India has only 12 Nobel prize winners, while Harvard alone has 137 Nobel prize winners, Cambridge 98, Columbia University 96, California 94 and Chicago 93,” Malik said.
 
 The governor handed over several awards to the students. While Rupali got best cabinet member award, indoor sports champion award went to Sunita Kumari. Bhavini Bhavya won outdoor sports champion award, Pragya best stage artist award and best sportsmanship award was bagged by Smita Sinha. The special awards for services towards college and society were given to Rupali, Rinku Shrivastav, Soumya Singh, Akriti Asin, Sakshi Jaiswal and Sanjana Shah.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh also spoke on the occasion. 
 
 Patna Science College: BSc Part II physics honours student Deepa Kumari and BSc Part II botany honours student Basant Kumar were adjudged the champions in girls’ and boys’ events, respectively, at the three-day annual athletic meet of Patna Science College which concluded on Saturday. Deepa also bagged the H P Basu Mallick Running Trophy for her best performance in the track events.
 
 International School: Talha Hameed was declared Mr International and Aditri Vaibhav Miss International at the farewell party for Class X students of International School (ICSE wing) on Saturday. The runner-up trophies were bagged by Hardik Shrivastava in boys and Asra Khan in girls category, respectively. 
 
 Arcade Business College: Surbhi Agarwal of BBM department emerged as the winner of debate competition on ‘Prohibition’ organised by Arcade Business College on Saturday. The first runner-up was BCA student Chandan Kumar.
 
 St Xavier’s College: The five-day seminar on ‘Bihar in 21st Century: Challenges and opportunities’, organised by St Xavier’s College, was jointly inaugurated by NIFT-Patna director Dr Sanjay Shrivastava and Fr Jose Kalapura of Xavier Institute of Social Research on Saturday. The keynote speaker of the event was director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies Sunil Ray.
 
 
