GURGAON: Residents of  , a   project in   can look forward to some good news. 

 Nearly two years after they moved in, they will get official power connections from the discom. During the intervening period, hundreds of residents living in different towers of the project were completely dependent on diesel generator sets for their power needs, burning nearly 1,200 litres of diesel per day in winters and 2,000 litres per day in summer to power the homes.
 
 Unitech had launched this project in 2005 with 15 residential towers, and, after years of delay, started giving possession from early 2016, beginning with some 450 flats in different towers. By end-2017, the developer had offered possession in more towers, allowing another 250 families to move in. But, deprived of power connection from the discom, these families were forced to depend on diesel gensets.
 
 “We’ve been filing complaints at different forums about non-availability of regular power connections in the society. The issue was also raised before chief minister   at a number of district grievance committee meetings,” said Joginder Singh, president of the RWA of Uniworld Garden-II, announcing that at last, the society will get its   power connection.
 
 He added that the society was spending Rs 30 lakh a month on diesel during winter and nearly Rs 45-50 lakh a month in summer. “Earlier, the builder used to charge us Rs 9.50 per unit. After much protest, the rate was reduced to Rs 7.50 per unit,” said Singh, adding the move will not only benefit hundreds of families in the society, but also in checking pollution. 
 
 District town planner (DTP) R S Batth said the issue was first raised before the chief minister at the district grievance meet, following which, the department held around 15 meetings with the developer and residents during the past six months to resolve the issue. “In a recent meeting, Unitech assured they will connect the society to DHBVN’s power grid,” said Batth.
 
 Unitech officials confirmed the development to TOI. “We’ve got all clearances from concerned departments, and in a week, the society will be connected to the Sector 47 sub-station,” he said. DHBVN official said the issue was resolved once society residents raised it before the chief minister at a district grievance committee meeting. “Approval was given for the release of a connection as a special case, as all formalities had already been completed by the applicant (developer),” said a DHBVN official, adding they will release a power connection with load of 3,598 kW or 3,998 kVA against Uniworld Garden Apartment Owners’ Association.
 
 Of the society’s 15 towers, 8 are currently occupied, with the remainder in advanced stages of completion. 
 
 Batth said the society has other issues along with the one of power connection. Of the 15 towers, only five had occupation certificates. “The developer has submitted detailed drawings for three more towers, and the department has completed inspection of these towers,” he said, adding the towers may get occupation certificates in the coming months.
 
 
