MUMBAI: A seafarer from Karnataka and three foreign nationals are feared dead after all 27 crew members of a  ,  , jumped into the  , about 800 nautical miles off Mumbai, following a   on Tuesday night. The vessel was 570 km (340 nautical miles) from   in Lakshwadeep Islands when a explosion took place around 8.40 pm on Tuesday. 

 Twenty three crew members were rescued from the sea by a merchant vessel  , which was diverted to the spot by the Mumbai-based Maritime Rescue Coordination Center (MRCC) of the Indian   (ICG) after getting a distress call from the ship around 9.45 pm.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “Maersk Honam was on fire with flames from the main deck rising up to the ship’s bridge (about 25 metres). The crew members abandoned the ship as fire spread beyond control,” a Coast Guard spokesperson said about the ship sailing under Singapore flag.
 
 “The missing Indian has been identified as Sakim Hegde, second cook on board the ship and a native of Karnataka. The other 12 Indians, including the captain, are safe along with 11 foreign crew members. They are on board another merchant ship (ALS Ceres),” Malini Shankar, Mumbai’s director general of shipping, told TOI. The DG said ALS Ceres was heading to Colombo with the survivors. Five other ships and two aircraft—Coast Guard’s Dornier D 228 and Navy’s Boeing P8i—searched for the missing crew members in the region throughout Wednesday. 
 
 The fire later spread to many of the 7,860 containers aboard Maersk Honam, headed for Suez from Singapore. With the fire on the ship continuing to blaze, a fire-fighting vessel of the Coast Guard, ICG Shoor, was expected the reach the spot by Wednesday midnight. 
 
 Inspector General KR Nautiyal, Coast Guard Commander (West), said, “Search operations are still on and coast guard assets have been pressed into action. It is our priority to rescue the missing crew and also continue our efforts to salvage the vessel with assistance of specialized vessels being arranged in coordination with the ship agency.”
 
 On Thursday morning, the Coast Guard’s Dornier will do sorties to find out extent of damage to the ship and control oil spill if any in the region.
 
 Maersk Line, in a press release, said it will investigate the matter thoroughly in cooperation with all relevant authorities. Maersk Line has informed the relatives of all crew members. “The evacuated crew members are obviously distressed, with two crew members currently receiving medical first aid on board the ALS Ceres. Crisis counselling will be offered to the seafarers signing-off and returning to their families,” Søren Toft, chief operating officer of Maersk Line, said in a press release.
 
 
