NAGPUR: For 125 odd young swimmers, it was a day to remember. On a bright Sunday morning, the young swimmers learnt a lot, not only about swimming but also life in general. Olympian  , who is also a son-in-law of Nagpur, shared his experiences with parents and budding swimmers.

 
 Sejwal was speaking on the occasion of the silver jubilee celebration of   along with Nashikrao Tirpude College of Physical Education. The jointly-organised felicitation and interaction programme was held at the Nashikrao Tirpude College Auditorium.
 
 Sejwal told the young swimmers about his illustrious journey so far. He told them about the sacrifices he made to achieve success. How he lived a simple life to concentrate only on swimming. His hard work, his passion, Sejwal shared each and everything to motivate the youngsters.
 
 “I hardly had friends outside swimming field as I would train mostly. I changed my diet over a period of time, my daily routine was all about training and swimming,” Sejwal said while answering one of the questions.
 
 Sejwal had the advice for parents too. “Don’t compare your kids to anyone. Every kid is unique. Please provide better environment to them for developing,” he said.
 
 To kids, Sejwal asked to set small targets. “Set small targets and achieve it step by step. The young generation needs to manage the time properly and should not waste time on social media, electronic gadgets or any other habits which is not relevant to swimming or sports,” Sejwal said.
 
 Renowned coaches Anil Pande, Sanjay Batwe, Roshan Choudhari and Nitin Malawade also interacted with Sejwal about nuances of swimming. City swimmer Kanchanmala Pande, who won first gold medal for India in Para Swimming World Championship at Mexico last year, was also present with her husband Vinod Deshmukh.
 Mangesh Gadre, Avinash Sahare and   worked hard under   to make this event a grand success.
 
 Vanita Tirpude of Yugantar Shikshan Sanstha, Mohan Nahatkar, president, Aqua Sports Club, Vivek Awasare, principal, Nashikrao Tirpude College of Physical Education, mother of Sandeep and his actress wife Pooja Banerjee and Purnima Banerjee were present on the dais.
 
 Hambhirrao Mohite conducted the programme and proposed a vote of thanks. At the outset, Shashikant Chande gave a brief introduction of Sejwal.
 
