CHANDIGARH: A new stateowned corporation will take complete control of the Punjab’s sand-mining business if the new draft policy on minor minerals is implemented. The state’s three-member   sub-committee on mining is ready with a draft of the   State Minor Minerals Policy, 2018 which is likely to be handed over the chief minister Captain   on Monday.

 Among the big steps that the draft proposes is that the corporation will develop, excavate, mine and supply minor minerals in the state. The company will be called the   and will be incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013.
 
 The draft also proposes fixing a uniform maximum retail price of sand and gravel, geo-tagging of the demarcated area to monitor mining operations and no bar on import of sand and gravel into the state.
 
 The new corporation will also maintain an online sand portal and the sand would be sold from stockyards at a fixed price. All transactions would be recorded in the sand portal that would display the designated stockyards, available sand quantity in these stockyards, quantity booked and delivered.
 
 Sources said the draft policy has emulated Telangana which saw its revenues from sand mining skyrocket from around Rs 10 crore in 2014 to around Rs 1,300 crore last year.
 
 Right way for revenue growth: Minister
 
 Minister   had said recently that with the correct strategy, Punjab could see its revenues go from Rs Rs 40 crore to Rs 5,000 crore annually from mining.
 
 “The objective of the new policy is to make the supplies of minor minerals available to the consumers at the reasonable price while protecting the state’s environment, ecology and public health.
 
 “The policy seeks to give a fillip to the development of state’s economy through promotion of construction activity, generate employment opportunities for youth and promoting investment in state’s infrastructure and social services by raising valuable resources for state’s treasury,” the draft reads.
 
 While water resources department would prepare desilting plans for rivers and reservioirs and pass administrative orders while keeping in loop the corporation, the corporation would carry out the desilting work through contractors to be selected on lowest bid.
 
