VEREM: Behind every successful man, there stands a woman is the old saying. For the six women officers of INSV  , a team of men and women of the   stood behind them. The first ever military all-women circumnavigation attempt required meticulous planning, logistical support, and training.

  
  
 
 While the entire Indian Navy stood up to support the Navika Sagar Parikrama expedition, there are five men who played a part in ensuring that INSV Tarini and the first ever solo circumnavigation succeeded.
 
 The crew benefitted immensely from the experience and training provided by Captain Dilip Dhonde, the first Indian to undertake a solo circumnavigation. It was Dhonde who initiated the six crew members into ocean sailing .
 
 The idea of ocean sailing itself could have never taken off without the initial impetus given by Vice Admiral  . The decorated officer is nothing short of the Godfather of India’s circumnavigation feats and despite his 90 years, he made it a point to be there on Monday when the crew came alongside at INS Mandovi jetty.
 
 Motivation and training are vital for circumnavigation, but for a crew looking to chart international waters, enter ports in five countries and pass through three oceans, elaborate coordination with shore authorities and embassies is a must. To ensure that Navika Sagar Parikrama never encountered logistical or legal hurdles during port calls, the Indian Navy and the   machinery rendered yeoman service.
 
 Though the Naval war room in New Delhi kept a hawkeyed vigil on the vessel, there are three men who deserve a special mention. Vice Admiral Hari Kumar, the  , supervised the entire decision making process for Navika Sagar Parikrama. Commander Neil Manjooran was the man behind the scenes who the crew turned to for support during port calls and public engagement programmes. Manjooran’s hand in the decision-making process was ably supported by captain Atool Sinha’s technical inputs.
 
 Sinha helped handpick and train the six naval officers at the Indian Navy’s ocean sailing node at INS Mandovi.
 
 
