BENGALURU: Eight years ago, when Bookanakere Siddappa   stepped down as chief minister of Karnataka and was arrested on charges of corruption, most people wrote political obituaries of the Shivamogga strongman. 

 Cut to 2018, the 75-year-old former CM has risen from the ashes like the proverbial phoenix and come back to rule the state, proving to his detractors and political pundits alike that his career is as strong as his will to succeed. And that nothing, not even a strong faction in the state BJP working against him, can stop him. The former RSS pracharak has his community to thank and complete backing from PM Modi.
 
 Born into an agricultural family in   in Mandya district on February 29, 1943, Yeddyurappa did his graduation and served for a short period in government service before shifting in 1965 to   where he worked as a clerk in a rice mill. He went on to marry the mill owner’s daughter, Mytradevi, in 1967.
 
 Yeddyurappa’s political journey began with his election to the assembly from Shikaripur on a BJP ticket in 1983. He has won every election from the segment barring once. Though a leading light in BJP, Yeddyurappa had to wait for decades before aspiring for anything near the CM’s gaddi.
 
 Though BJP under him emerged as the largest party in 2004 assembly elections, Congress and JD(S) cobbled a coalition, driving him to despair. Yeddyurappa was said to have toyed with the idea of splitting BJP in those days. Better sense prevailed and he stayed back in the party and soon entered into a deal with JD(S) and became CM in 2008.
 
 Though he lasted only seven days, Yeddyurappa became CM in the elections that ensued, riding a sympathy wave among Lingayats. However, his tenure was rocked by scams and ended with him quitting and getting arrested. After a brief period in the wilderness when he quit BJP and floated his own party, Yeddyurappa was back in BJP for the 2014 LS elections as its mascot.
 
 With 2018 further vindicating his claims of being the undisupted leader of the Lingyats, Yeddyurappa appears to have written himself into the party’s script for the future.
 
 His successors, sons Vijayendra and Raghavendra, are waiting in the wings to take over the reins but BSY— if he survives the trust vote — will be the leader who will call the shots in Karnataka for some time to come.
 
 
