CUTTACK: A day after a fire broke out at a garments showroom in the city's   locality, authorities have found that the building housing the shop did not have an approval from the   Development Authority ( ). 

 The approval of the CDA is mandatory for carrying out the construction of any building in the city. "We have checked our records and found that the building's plan was not approved by us. It seems the building is illegal," said vice-chairman of CDA, Sarat Chandra Nayak. "A showcause notice will be issued to the owner/s on Tuesday. If they fail to provide satisfactory answers, we will take steps for the demolition of the structure," he added.
 
 The fire department also began an investigation on Monday to find out the reason for the fire. It will also probe what kind of fire-fighting mechanism was in place at the showroom.
 
 "A three-member team, headed by chief fire officer Sukant  , examined the premises of the showroom thoroughly but the staff were not able to produce any documents related to fire safety or building approval. They claimed that their documents had been destroyed in the fire and sought three days' time to submit the papers after collecting them from the head office in Kolkata," said Sethi, adding that fire officials had given time to the showroom staff to submit all the necessary documents.
 
 Fire officials said a prima facie investigation had shown that there was no proper equipment in the showroom to deal with fires. It did not have a fire-safety licence either. "As the showroom draws hundreds of people daily, there should have been an elaborate fire-safety arrangement there. But it seems the owners had violated all norms. Apart from a few fire extinguishers, we found no other fire-fighting equipment in the building," said a fire official. 
 
 The team will submit its report within two or three days to the director-general of fire services, B K Sharma.
 
 The showroom authorities, however, have refuted all the allegations. "There was no violation as far as fire safety is concerned. We had installed enough fire extinguishers in the showroom. It was just an unfortunate incident," said store manager, Manas Purohit.
 
