HYDERABAD: A 25-year-old selfie-crazy youth’s bid to capture his video with an MMTS whizzing past him in backdrop went awry and nearly cost him his life. He luckily survived the bizzare antic, but ended up on a hospital bed with head injuries and broken limbs. Though the nearly-fatal incident happened on January 21near the   railway station, it came to light on Wednesday when the video went viral on social media.

 T  , a resident of Borabanda, got on to the railway tracks near his residence to click a selfie video with a moving MMTS train on January 21. According to the widely-circulated 1.39-minute video, he is seen capturing the selfie video and people, including his friends, warn him of the fast approaching MMTS service. Unmindful of their warnings, he tells them, “Arrey rook, okka nimsham (Wait for a minute)” and points at the direction of the approaching train. The MMTS driver even sounds the horn several times. However, it appears that he ventured too close to the track and the train brushed past him at high speed, throwing him off the feet. The video goes blank after 14 seconds, but voices of people at the site can be heard.
 
 Siva sustained bleeding injuries and was subsequently rushed to hospital. The video sent shockwaves across the country and prompted   to tighten their vigil on railway tracks.
  
  
 A home guard, posted at Borabanda railway station, said the youth was alerted repeatedly about the approaching train, but he ignored their warnings. As soon as the train hit him, he fell on the side of the railway track and sustained injuries. “He is lucky to have survived the accident,” he added.
 
 Authorities told 
  that the youth was booked for trespassing on railway property under the Railways Act. Railway patrolling teams rue that selfie-crazy youngsters were vulnerable to such accidents. “It is high time to counsel these youth. Taking selfies in front of a moving train is not only risky, but also invites punishment,” they added.
 
 
  Authorities should carry out massive awareness campaigns to stop people from taking selfies while risking their lives. Unless steps are taken to ban selfies in certain areas, people will take the liberty and in the process put their lives in jeopardy.
 
 
 
