He was no male lead and there wasn’t anything glamorous or heroic to his role. The character was that of a watchman. Yet, the jury of the Kerala State Television Awards of 2017 couldn’t turn a blind eye to the stupendous performance of  , who played guard Nakulan in the serial  . He is in his 40s and theatre is his forte, but Krishnan speaks affectionately about the turf of TV, his characters and more. 

 
 
 
 
 I thought my friends got the name wrong or there might be another star by the same name. I was assisting Dr Biju sir in his latest film, Veil Marangal, which is shot in Himachal Pradesh when the list was announced. It took a while for me to believe that the award is my own. But, it will not change anything for me, though I do hope it brings me more work from this medium. I like to look at it like winning a marathon. Many ran with me and luckily I became the winner. Next time, it can be some other actor.
 
 
 
 
 
 Kali Gandaki was my first tele-serial and it was directed by   sir. I play the role of a watchman who takes care of an art house, Chitralaya, around which the plot is woven. Also I feel great that the serial bagged almost seven awards including that of the Best Actor and Best Director. The scriptwriter of the serial, G R Indugopan who put together such an interesting tale, also went on to bag an award.
 And yes, I had just a character role in the serial which had a total of 163 episodes. I had included several ‘watchman mannerisms’ that I observed. For instance, the different ways in which the same person would interact with others. All of this might be trivial but within the scope of my role, I explored the maximum for it to make the character as natural as possible. 
 
 
 
 
 
 May be it will result in more projects and I will get tagged as a ‘State Award winning’ actor (laughs). But above all that, I believe my selection would give a morale boost for those who play supporting roles or character roles. Regardless of the number of scenes, they will be motivated to do their best. 
 Alongside, there is a shift in the attitude of the viewers as well, which is for the best. They observe the performance of the supporting cast too, even in non-commercial films. The State and National Film Awards bear testimony to this fact. 
 Actor   won the National Award for the second best actor for his role in Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum, which was a character role according to the jury. I feel happy to live in a system in which now recognition is given to character roles than the protagonists. Let my award be a hope for the enthusiastic character artistes in the industry to get recognised.
 
 
 
 
 
 I look for short projects and roles. Apart from assisting, I am also acting in Veil Marangal and Painting Life directed by Dr Biju. The other films in my kitty are Sujith Vigneshwaran’s Rameshante Katha and Pathinettam Padi. My soul belongs to theatre. I am also into theatre productions including Prasanth Narayan’s Mahasagaram revised edition, Lenin Rajendran sir’s poetic drama Bhoothapaatu, Benyamin’s Aadujeevitham and so on. I have also signed a few short films.
 
