CHENNAI: An   and   attached to the   police station have landed in trouble after senior police officers found the signature of an accused in a crime case, in the conditional bail register without him having appeared before the police till Wednesday. The police have arrested the accused’s friend M Rasool, who had been signing in the register since March 1. 

 The incident came to light when police who caught hold of A Sulaiman Sait, the accused in question, for an enquiry in connection with a robbery case in   on Tuesday night. They were shocked to see his signature in the register at the police station on Wednesday morning when he was in police custody. The police checked footage from CCTV cameras at the station and found Rasool forging Sait’s signature.
 
 Police said Sait, 35, of Tenkasi and M Rasool, 37, of Royapettah were arrested in December 2017 by the Triplicane police for allegedly kidnapping a   Syed Mohammad Buhari, 28. On February 15, the two men were released on conditional bail and were ordered to sign at the Triplicane police station everyday. But since March 1, Rasool had been forging Sulaiman's signature.
 
 Meanwhile, the police apprehended Sait in connection with an extortion case in  . He was in police custody at the St Thomas Mount police station from Tuesday evening. When they were checking his antecedents they learnt that he was out on conditional bail. They checked the register and were shocked to see his signature there even when he was in police custody.
 
 Senior police officers suspect involvement of three policemen in the same station. “We have ordered a departmental probe,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Buhari, a native of Tirunelveli, ran a sand business with Sahul Hameed, 48, a native of Tenkasi. Buhari had borrowed Rs 44 lakh from Hameed and failed to return the money. So, Hameed filed a complaint with the Tenkasi police, following which, Buhari returned Rs 4 lakh and went into hiding. In December, Hameed traced Buhari in Triplicane and with the help of Sait and Rasool kidnapped his business partner.
 
 The police rescued Buhari and arrested six men including Rasool and Sait. 
 
 
