MUMBAI: The India Meteorological Department ( ) has indicated an early onset of monsoon not just for Kerala, but for Mumbai as well.

 Civic representatives have demanded that the   complete its pre-monsoon activities like desilting of major and minor drains in the city or completing road repair works on time. Officials from the BMC’s stormwater drains and roads department said that they plan to complete all works by May 31. However, corporators alleged that works across the city appear to be moving at a slow pace and is unlikely to meet the deadline. 
 
 Though the official onset forecast by IMD is expected on Saturday, models run by it show the monsoon’s onset over Kerala around May 25. The normal date is June 1.   officials said that weather patterns are indicating towards an early monsoon. Generally, the normal onset date for monsoon over Kerala is June 1, the onset date for Mumbai is June 10. Last year, the monsoon hit the city on June 12. Scientist Shubhangi Bhute from IMD Mumbai said, “Cloud movement in the Indian ocean and the wind patterns are indicating an early arrival.” 
 
 BMC officials said that they are targeting towards completing the pre-monsoon works by May 31 and work on cleaning of drains in the city is in the advanced stage. V Khankar, chief engineer of BMC stormwater drains department, said that as far as cleaning of major nullahs was concerned 60% of the work had been completed so far. “We started cleaning works on April 1 and are expecting to complete it by May 31,” he said. However, he also said if the rain lashed the city in the next few days the city would not be fully prepared. 
 
 The BMC plans to repair 522 roads before monsoon sets in. The opposition has alleged that pre-monsoon works were moving slow and may not manage to meet the target. Leader of the opposition in the BMC Ravi Raja said that the claims made by the civic authorities about works being in progress are not reflecting on the ground. 
 
 “The city is sure to witness waterlogging with works progressing at this rate. The claims of 60% of drain-cleaning works being complete appear to be unconvincing,” said Raja. Corporator Ashraf Azmi said that drains in Kurla are being cleaned in a manner that only the floating material is being removed while the silt is left untouched. Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted pre-monsoon showers in parts of the state, including Konkan, Marathwada and   from Friday.
 
 
