AHMEDABAD: Nanu Dantani (name changed) was 18 when he was caught by the police for  . He has already spent eight years behind bars at   – over half his sentence for the crime. He told a counsellor that he thought he used to think he was a tough guy and had the world at his feet. 

 In his testimony, he mentions that he did not even know the man who was murdered as the assailant was his friend. “I revisit in my mind the whole crime scene innumerable times daily and wish I could change it somehow,” he told the counsellor.
 
 Dantani is not alone in his wish for redemption. Reena Sharma has completed her doctoral thesis titled, ‘A study on assessing violent behaviour and aggression, its treatment readiness and engagement in offenders in inmates of Sabarmati Prison, Gujarat,’ from Raksha   (RSU). She was a counsellor for 2 months for 110 convicts of cases of murder and rape.
 
 Sharma’s study, conducted under Prof K Jaishankar, head of the department of criminology, focuses primarily on psychological intervention for prisoners’ rehabilitation. However, it also throws light on social factors, and educational and psychological profile of the convicts and how they see themselves returning to society after serving their term.
 
 “We observed that a number of convicts were afraid of going back to society,” she says. 
 
 “This is particularly true of those who have spent a considerable time behind bars. We counselled them individually on issues such as anger management, interpersonal problem-solving, social skills, recognizing one’s own feelings and on impulse control.” 
 
 She further said that if such intervention continues for a sustained period of time, it can help reduce recidivism (relapse into crime) and assimilation into society.
 
 Vikas Sahay, director-general, Raksha Shakti University, said their focus is on finding solutions to   through research, and Sharma’s study is one such example. 
 
 “Prisons always pose challenges,” he said. 
 
 “They provide opportunities to work closely with the inmates and ensure reduction in recidivism. The findings have thrown light on a number of crucial aspects for reforms,” Sahay said.
 
 
