INDORE: "Lage reh, lage reh (Just keep at it)!" The words from the Vidarbha dressing echoed around the empty MPCA Holkar stadium when overnight batsman   took guard in the second over of the day. Vidarbha had already survived the biggest scare of the match when  's edge off   was dropped at second slip in the previous over.

 Even after Jaffer did fall at 246/6 - 49 runs shy of Delhi's first innings score of 295 - the egging from the dressing room got louder for the two unheralded batsmen at the crease, Akshay Wadkar and Aditya Sarwate. The difference between the two sides too started screaming as the noon sun flattened out the pitch and with it, the Delhi bowling attack along with that.
 
 By stumps, Delhi could only eke out just one more wicket and the lead swelled painfully to 233 runs as Wadkar remained firmly unbeaten on 133. The chants decibel levels stayed steady as Wadkar walked off with Vidharbha No 9 Siddhesh Neral (56 batting), after having almost sealed Delhi's fate with a 169-run stand with Sarwate.
 
 Professionalism has been the Vidarbha team's mantra through this campaign of emergence. Their drive and determination to not let go of this hard-earned and somewhat unexpected final has contrasted with the indecisiveness and impulsiveness of a flamboyant and young Delhi team.
 
 "Shaam tak bat karna hain. (You have to bat till evening)," the chants continued even when Vidarbha anxiously was getting close to that all-important first innings lead. A mere lead wouldn't have sufficed for this hungry and un-heralded bunch from Nagpur. They were more about dragging Delhi ragged.
 
 Intent was the defining factor which way the pendulum swung on Day Three. Delhi fizzled out soon after conceding the lead. There was no out-worldly strokeplay. Delhi dropped five catches, missed a stumping and got wickets off no-balls.
 
 Wadkar, Vidarbha's third choice wicketkeeper this season, stayed put and Delhi's wheels came off rather quickly. The cricket which looked like a perfect advertisement for a Ranji final in the first season soon swung from ordinary to bizarre by stumps. Neral exposed his stumps and slogged the entire session but none of the Delhi seamers targeted the stumps. Delhi had three substitutes fielding in the last session and Akash Sudan's seam-ups do not look ready for first-class level.
 
 Vidarbha kept offering Delhi chances. Delhi kept turning them down. Vidarbha retained their intent. They simply do not want to allow Delhi even a sniff of a chance. "Nothing has been planned yet. Par dekhna hain ki…," Wadkar stopped short of divulging their plan for Monday. But then, that's how   and Wasim Jaffer have won multiple Ranji titles for Mumbai: 'Bat, bat and bat the opposition out of the game.' In Indore, they only bettered Delhi's centurion  's plan.
 
 Method and discipline have held Vidarbha together throughout the season and now, on the threshold of another fairy tale finish in  's history, they are about to dismantle Delhi's challenge in much the same way.
 
