NAGPUR: The fourth edition of Stories Worth Sharing (SWS) held at a chic city café on Sunday evening proved to be a ride full of emotions and motivation. Sixty-three   from around the city turned into storytellers during the event.

 The first speaker, Ashay Nalamwar, told his train-journey story wherein a 60 something gentleman whom he found annoying initially turned out to be a very warm and helpful person and helped him out of a difficult situation. “Kind strangers is all we need today,” he said. Pooja Upadhyay and Pallavi Wadhai also communicated their interesting train stories which were received well by those present.
 
 RJ Naman and Mohit Varu spoke about how life repeatedly tends to bring you down and motivated everyone to not give up. “However hard you try, you fail many times. But it is important is to stand up with same smile and enthusiasm to move forward in life,” said Naman.
 
 One of the most grasping story was of Amit Tiwari who shared about the time he out of nowhere kept a dog and how that four-legged animal taught him to understand the unsaid emotions, to value small things in life more than wealth, to not whine about the hurtful times and get over it and made him understand his capability to love someone so much.
 
 Following Tiwari came Maya Jogi who opened up about the sexual abuse that took place with her when she was little by her own relative proving that the society still needs a lot to improve. “I was warned about bad men outside but no one warned me about the bad men within the family,” she said.
 
 Another striking story was of Madhura who told about her parents who lost their eyesight and yet brought her up really well. She proudly informed about the NGO run by them for visually challenged people. Her optimism and strength in life won hearts of many.
 
 Further, Lipi Gangwani and Sakshi Kamble narrated beautiful lighthearted stories about school ministry elections and beauty of not having plans respectively whereas Gurbani Kaur Bhasin and Vedanti Bobde spoke on importance of not giving up on friendship and finding new friendships respectively.
 
 Malcolm Lavocah conveyed about his fear of losing people, yet understanding that it's just you who you have throughout the life. Thereafter, Abhishek Nandurkar created a laugh riot through a funny story giving a moral about importance of parents in life. Neeraj Dayaramani and Manshi captivatingly recited their tales through poems.
 
 Event ended with a gratitude sharing session.
 
 
