NOIDA: The   group on Thursday committed to delivering 3,500 flats in its long-delayed Wish Town housing project in Noida in April.

 With a Supreme Court hearing due on January 25, the company’s top management also said it would another tranche of Rs 125 crore with the court’s registry on the day as part of the deposit it has been asked to pay to safeguard the interests of homebuyers.
 
  Limited, the group’s real estate arm that is building Wish Town, is facing insolvency proceedings. The case went to the Supreme Court after Jaypee buyers filed a petition. The Supreme Court asked Jaypee to deposit Rs 2,000 crore and later agreed to let it make the deposits in instalments.
 
 The company on Thursday also gave an update on the delivery status of Wish Town and Aman. Of 32,000 housing units at Wish Town, Jaypee said it had already handed over 6,000 apartments and 1,400 plots. Of 4,000 apartments in Aman, it said 600 had been delivered. 
 
 The realtor said it was ready to apply for completion certificates of 3,500 more flats in Wish Town and 350 in Aman. “By March, we will complete applying for completion certificates for 3,500 flats. Once we secure them, these will be handed over by April,” Ajit Kumar, adviser to the Jaypee group and chief signatory of the company, said. Wish Town is based on a land parcel of 1,150 acres in Sector 128 while Aman has been built on a 100-acre plot in Sector 151.
 
 Wish Town and Aman are located on one of the five land parcels of 1,250 acre each that were given to Jaypee in 2003 in exchange for rights of building the Yamuna expressway. The company representatives claimed the land value has been paid by them to the Yamuna expressway authority (YEIDA) but they are not in a financial position to pay the additional 64.7% compensation raised on them as dues because of enhanced farmers’ compensation. “Our land purchase was a closed deal when the additional compensation matter came up, so we can’t pay this money in retrospect,” said Vibhor Gupta, a Jaypee official.
 
 The other land parcels held by Jaypee group in Uttar Pradesh are at Sports City, Greater Noida, Tappal village near Jewar and in Agra. The total land holding of Jaypee in UP amounts to 6,000 acres.
 
 “We have spent Rs 12,500 crore in building the Yamuna expressway. The toll collection, which started in 2012, will go on over 35 years. So there has been a financial imbalance, but the company is determined to work it out,” Kumar stated. The company is at present being managed by Anuj Jain, the insolvency resolution professional appointed by the  .
 
 During the process of the insolvency resolution, top infrastructure companies have expressed interest in investing in Jaypee Infratech.   holds 70% stake in Jaypee Infratech. “We wish to announce to our homebuyers that no matter what the legal proceedings, all apartments will be delivered. Yes there have been delays because of multiple reasons but no matter how the financial adjustments and solutions pan out, the end-users — the buyers — will get their flats,” said Gupta.
 
 
