
 

 PANCHKULA: Even after this district has been declared cattle-free, many herds are roaming in the town. An residents say it has been going on for months. 
 
 Most of the cows and buffalos have been released from cattle pounds and these have seized roads and parks in Sector 4 and Hamirpur village. It has caused many fatal accidents in the dark. 
 
 The herds also gatecrash the parks of Sectors 5, 7, 12, and 20. Some of the residents of Sector 5 blame it on the dairy owners, saying they leave their cattle into the city because they get free fodder here.
 
 The residents reported incidents where stray cattle had invaded parks and chased the walkers. They said those people were fortunate to come out alive. A stray cattle killed a resident of   a few daysa ago and cause other accidents. On Wednesday, a 14-year-old student of a government school in Sector 7 had a narrow escape when a null attacked him around 7am when the boy was on his way to school near the district elementary education office.
 
 Eyewitness   said: "When I was going to drop my wife to the housing board office around 7am, I saw this student jump over a wall to escape the bull. The boy's alertness saved his life." A few other residents said: "The municipal corporation has not taken appropriate steps to combat this problem. Panchkula mayor   said: "All the cattle pounds in the city are packed. We are building another pound to keep the stray cattle under one roof. I had instructed officials many times to work on the project but they are not taking the necessary steps. I had told them to either chase the dangerous cattle out of the city or impound these so that people can drive freely." 
 
 "Stray cattle seems to be major problem for us. I escaped a bull attack in the market of Sector 20, Panchkula. The bull tried to hit me from the rear when I was going to my room," said resident  . 
 
 Resident Surender Singh said: "In the evening, stray cattle seize all roads in Sector 4. Most of the dairy owners abandon their cattle in the morning and the buffaloes find their way home in the evening. The MC has not taken strict action against the dairy owners."
 
 Resident   said: "In the early hours these cows and buffaloes are all over the parks. I am very scared of gettting hit by stray cattle, so I always accompany my young brother to school."
 
 
