NEW DELHI:   has been bringing in   from   and   to improve the   of   to help them control their stress levels while managing work, including equitable assignment of jobs to subordinates. The SHOs are also being trained in anger management to avoid confrontational incidents. So far, 171 cops from different police stations have attended such training sessions.

 
 “Our aim is to turn the force into a more professional unit,” said police commissioner Amulya Patnaik. “The SHOs and inspectors are the point persons on the ground and handle the day-to-day work of Delhi Police. The idea is to train them to keep their stress levels low so that they can put in their best while interacting with the public and the community.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The capital’s police force has roped in corporate trainers, faculty members from IIT Delhi and DU and senior public prosecutors to discuss legal issues while dealing with typical crime cases. Suman Nalwa, DCP (training), explained, “During the training sessions, the officers are taught about leaderships traits, how to motivate their sub-ordinates and improve the morale of their colleagues. They also get training on communication skills, increasing empathy, dealing with grievance redress and reacting to emotions of a complainant.”
 
 Keeping the legalities involved in mind, the inspectors were also taught on how best to reply to questions from judges during court proceedings. “This training was of particular help since we sometimes have to appear for legal hearings on cases we solved as junior officers. It often happens that the senior officer who had guided us on the legalities then might have retired,” said an SHO.
 
 The program will evaluate a policeman on criteria such as understanding the nature of a crime or a situation and reacting accordingly. Cops acting violently when managing protesters is another focus area.
 
 “This initiative will improve policing, police-public relations and the professional skills of officers,” reiterated Madhur Verma, DCP PRO “We hope through individual learning, we can progressively affect a change in the whole organisation. These positive changes will, in turn, affect society at large.”
 
 During the training programme, each policeman is given the opportunity to seek guidance on handling specific situations. Sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors who take the refresher course will also have to undergo this training later.
 
 
