COIMBATORE: The   board examination results announced on Wednesday came as a relief to the district education department as the district came third with a pass percentage of 96.19%. Coimbatore had slipped to the 15th position in Class X results. In Class XII results, while it advanced from the 10th position to the 8th,  

 A total of 35,085 students had written the Class XI board exams in the district, of which 33,747 passed. A total of 3,696 students have scored above 500 marks out of the total 600. 
 
 Government schools have secured a pass percentage of 89.93%. A total of five government schools and 14 government-aided schools have secured 100% result.
 
 Chief educational officer of Coimbatore P Ayyannan said the department will take measures to increase the pass percentage by at least 5% in the coming academic year. “While the result in Commerce group has been good, the performance in Arts group has dipped. We will concentrate on Arts group to boost the overall performance,” he told TOI.
 
 While the district scored a pass percentage of 96.23% in Science group and 97.12% in Commerce group, it scored only 80.14% in Arts group.
 
 Matriculation schools in the district came first with a whopping 99.51% pass percentage, with 151 matriculation schools securing 100% results.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation schools continued to trail behind with 88.61%. Out of the 16 corporation schools, none had managed to get 100% pass. Corporation schools in the district had also performed poorly in Class X and Class XII board exams.
 
 Corporation education officer MS Uma said the department would soon conduct a meeting to discuss about the performance and to take corrective measures. “We would surely improve the performance of corporation schools in the coming year,” she said.
 
 Teachers from the district said the announcement of board examinations for Class XI had put significant stress on students. The syllabus the students had to cover was voluminous while the exam was for 600 marks, which meant students had to work harder, said president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association R Visalakshi. 
 
 Also, the questions were difficult and were twisted, several teachers said.
 
 In addition to this, the new evaluation system for Class XI had confused teachers, said district president of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association T Arulanandam. “There were separate evaluation components for attendance and activities, about which the teachers were confused. They couldn’t communicate it properly to students,” he said.
 
 However, teachers hoped that with the new textbooks for Class XI and better awareness, students would perform well in the two higher secondary board exams from next year.
 
 
