 and Lavanya Tripathi’s film  , under the direction of VV Vinayak has hit the screens this Friday. In the film, Sai Dharam Tej plays the role of Dharma Bhai, a man who likes using his brain and brawn both when it is demanded of him, and Lavanya Tripathi plays the role of  , a US-return. The jukebox of the film was released recently and was met with enthusiasm. 
Composed by S Thaman are four songs in the album, the first of which is Naa Cell Phone, sung by   and Manisha Eerabathini, with lyrics by  . The peppy song has foot-tapping Thaman-esque music and tune, with the 
 vocals by Jaspreet Jasz and lyrics standing out. Fun to listen and hum along to, Naa Cell Phone begins the album on a right note. It is only Manisha’s vocals that seem to not gel along well with the number, bringing in heaviness to the light and breezy song.
 Next up is  , sung by Nakash Aziz and Geetha Madhuri, with lyrics by Bhasakarabhatla. The mass number has subpar lyrics that border of objectification, tune and music. There’s nothing new on offer here, even with the lyrics seemingly making ‘Amma Kutti’ reference. 
 Third on the album is Let’s Do, penned by Chandrabose and featuring vocals by 
 Srikrishna and Saketh Komanduri. While Kala Kala Kalamandir offered nothing new, Let's Do just charters into a territory that can only be deemed as downright silly. The lyrics, tune and music of this song seem plain juvenile, with the vocalists and Thaman seemingly struggling to make it all sound interesting. The classical ‘twist’ in the middle is the most interesting part of this song. 
 Last on the album is Inttelligent’s most famous number, the Chamaku Chamaku Cham Remix — a number that Lavanya Tripathi once described as a ‘mini heart attack’. Originally composed by Ilayaraja, the Chiranjeevi and Vijayashanti song from Kondaveeti Donga has been rebooted to suit the millennial audience. Sung by SP Charan and 
 Harini Ivaturi and penned by Srinivennela Sitaramasastri, the song does a good enough job of sticking to its retro roots.
 The album of Inttelligent is both a cliché and a deviation from the norm at the same time. Featuring a love track, massy number, pub song and a retro reboot (while missing a hero elevation number, yay), the jukebox is good enough for a one-time listen if one is an S Thaman fan. Because other than Naa Cell Phone, nothing in the album seems to stand out, except for the Chamaku Chamaku Cham Remix, which is pure 
 fan-service for Chiranjeevi fans. 
 
 
