KOLKATA: The bus depots at prime locations in Kolkata and the districts will soon boast of night shelters, electronic displays and cafeterias. The transport department is in the process of upgrading depots with modern amenities at Joka, Karunamayee, Garia, Jadavpur, airport, Howrah and  .

 “We have upgraded 20 such depots in the districts and are upgrading 70 more this financial year,” said transport minister Suvendu Adhikari in the assembly while tabling the transport budget. Depots situated on massive plots of land, partly used, have so far been out-ofbounds for commuters and the state is planning better utilization of the properties.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We are creating night shelters at some strategic bus depots as a lot of long-distance passengers feel helpless after reaching the terminals. They can stay back at night and catch the first bus in the morning. We have designed a master-plan which include all necessary modern facilities,” said Adhikari, adding: “We are also upgrading all existing bus stands keeping in mind the modernization of bustransit system in the city.”
 
 The transport department is also connecting Kolkata with all the district headquarters with   buses — called the Rajdhani fleet. For better security of passengers, the transport department will set up watch towers along the termini and around the night shelters. The department is also strengthening its services in the Hills. “We will shortly acquire sturdy buses with robust engines for services to Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik at a regular frequency,” Adhikari said.
 
 “We are connecting a lot of place in Jangalmahal and Jhargram with new routes. Night shelters for passengers will also come up at Purulia, Raghunathgunj, Jhalda and Malbazar,” the minister said.
 
 The minister also said that the Kolkata Central Bus Terminus at Santragachhi has been set up. Construction of a right flyover has also been started by HRBC to reduce vehicular congestion on Kona Expressway.
 
 In 2017-18, 411 new state transport undertakings buses have been rolled out. Initiatives have been taken to launch 40 electric buses by WBTC under a central government scheme. “We are buying 10 such buses exclusively for New Town and Rajarhat area,” Adhikari added.
 
