NOIDA: Five students from Noida have bagged the second and third ranks in the CBSE Class X results, which were announced on Tuesday. While two students from Amity International School, Sector 44 have got the second rank along with five others, three from other schools in the city have come third sharing their position with 11 others. In Ghaziabad, three students managed to secure the all-India third rank.

 Anshika Gupta and   are the second hank holders in Noida with 498 marks each while L   of Somerville School, Sector 22, Snigdha Basu of Vishwa Bharati Public School, Sector 28 and Anushka Pandey of Bal Bharati Public School, Sector 21 are the third rank holders with 497 marks each.
 
 Daughter of a Delhi-based chartered accountant, Anshika (16), who has scored a 100 in all the subjects apart from maths and Hindi in which she got 99 each, wants to join her father’s firm.
 
 She has taken commerce for Class XI.
 
 “I never used to stress out during the exam time. I used to watch television and listen to songs. I can’t believe I have got this position. My aunts helped me achieve this as they guided me in studying science and maths,” she said.
 
 Anchit Jain, son of a chief financial officer in a media company, is studying non-medical. He has scored a 100 in all the four subjects- English, Hindi, maths, science and 98 in social studies.
 
 Anchit said he has never taken tuitions. “Time management is the key to perform well. Students need to be stress-free and parents need to ensure that they don’t put pressure on students. They can do best when they are not under pressure,” he said.
 
 L Gokulnath, a student of Somerville School, Sector 22 who has scored 497 out of 500 marks, had recently cleared the first stage of the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) in which he emerged as the Noida topper.
 
 Gokulnath has scored a 100 in maths, social studies and Sanskrit, 99 in Science and 98 in English. He has chosen non-medical for Class XI.
 
 Snigdha Basu (16), daughter of a senior manager in an IT firm in Gurgaon, has got a 100 in maths, social studies and Sanskrit, 99 in Science and 98 in English. She wants to become a doctor and has chosen medical stream.
 
 Anushka Pandey (16) said she wants to prepare for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). “My short-term goal is to pursue engineering. But I think being a good human being is necessary,” she said.
 
 The CBSE is doing away with grading system and re-introduction of board exams has helped the toppers, they said..
 
 “The students will have to work harder now. The Cumulative Grade Points Average (CGPA) used to put one student with 81.5% and another with 90% in the same slot with an A grade,” he said.
 
 In Ghaziabad, three students from different schools managed to secure third rank in the results. Arpana of DLF Public School, Ayush Gupta of Indirapuram Public School and   of   Meerut Road scored 99.4% marks each to claim the third position along with eleven others.
 
 “It is unexpected and unbelievable,” Arpana told TOI. “I wrote my papers well and expected good results. But getting third rank in the country is something I did not expect,” said Arpana. “I devoted five to six hours daily without a gap for studies. I stuck to this routine for one year. I think it played a key role in my success,” she said.
 
 She scored 100% in science, Sanskrit and social studies though she confessed that it was maths that tested her skills in which she scored 99 marks. “Honestly speaking, I am not a lover of maths but could not afford to score low in this subject. More than being happy, I am relieved that I scored 99 in maths,” said Arpana. Her father R S Ray, an engineer, is elated at his daughter’s success. “I had full confidence in her and I always knew that she would do us proud,” said Ray. An avid reader, Arpana wants to be a doctor and in her free time she loves to play badminton with her elder and younger sisters.
 
 Mishthi Singhal of DPS Meerut Road was in for a surprise when she learnt from TOI that she has emerged third topper in the country. “All I knew is that I scored 497 out of 500 but never did I realize that I have come third, it feels like a dream,” said Mishthi Singhal. Daughter of a businessman, Mishthi, while preparing for exams, admitted that it was tough not getting distracted by social media. “Since I love social media platforms, it was tough that while preparing I should not give in to it and I am glad that I remained focused,” said Mishthi. She loves listening to music and wants to be an engineer.
 
 Ayush Gupta of Indirapuram Public School was at ease with himself and didn’t give in to emotions. “It is unexpected for sure and it feels good,” said Ayush. When asked about his future plans, he said that at this stage he is undecided. His father  , who works in LIC, said: “He was always focused in whatever he does and I think it is this quality that held him in good stead as far as this exam is concerned.” Ayush in his free time love reading books.
 
 
