KOLKATA: Three projects — two flyovers and a ramp — that the   (KMDA) has lined up following the chief minister’s instructions to improve the city’s traffic movement are staring at an uncertainty now. The   and   are yet to come up with a mutually agreeable plan to implement these projects.

 KMDA engineers and senior Kolkata Traffic Police officers held a meeting recently to discuss the projects — a flyover from Dhakuria to Jadavpur Sulekha More, a flyover from Ultadanga to Girish Park and another ramp from Maa flyover that will come down towards the Ballygunge-end.
 
 However, the cops have raised queries regarding the viability of the projects .
 
 
  
 Of the three, the Dhakuria to Jadavpur Sulekha flyover project is in an advanced stage of planning with the KMDA already floating tenders to invite private players to construct the 1.6km flyover. The four-lane flyover project on Raja SC Mullick Road — pegged at Rs 248 crore — will be an elevated corridor that will start from Dhakuria where the Dhakuria bridge ends and will cross Jadavpur police station and Jadavpur 8B bus stand before ending at Sulekha crossing. “There is extreme traffic congestion between   and Jadavpur PS crossing. The flyover will ease it,” said a KMDA official.
 
 Former deputy commissioner of traffic,  , and urban development minister Firhad Hakim did a joint recce of the area while announcing the project in November last year. But, the present officers think the project will create a traffic mess. “Jadavpur-bound traffic on the road witnesses logjam in the evening. But that is manageable. However, the flyover project will take more than three years to complete when traffic has to be diverted along the Dhakuria-Jadavpur stretch and it will become extremely difficult to handle traffic during that period,” said a senior officer in the traffic department.
 For the Ultadanga-Girish Park flyover, the original plan was to connect it with the Vivekananda Road flyover to have a single elevated corridor from near   to Ultadanga. The third plan, which is also in a preliminary stage, is about setting up a ramp from Maa flyover that would come down towards Ballygunge on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. “A commissioned feasibility study has been on hold,” a KMDA official said.
 
 Kolkata Police has shown a red light to the Ultadanga project, saying since the Vivekananda flyover is likely to be demolished, there is no point in going ahead withit as it would increase traffic at Girish Park crossing.
 
 “About the Ballygunge-bound ramp, we realised it will not ease the traffic management scenario. The KMDA are taking ages to finish a 300-metre ramp between Maa and AJC Bose flyovers above Nasiruddin Road. Can you imagine the time they will take for this new ramp,” the officer said.
 
 
  
