UDUPI: On the occasion of Vidyadheesha Teertha swamiji of   mutt ascending the   Peetha for the second time on Thursday, 40 different organizations, including Muslim organizations, offered Horekanike. The offerings were displayed at  , a temporary storeroom built next to the   parking area.

 The offering of   started from January 5 and ended on Tuesday. The items were carried in a procession from Jodu Katte to the storeroom. Horakanike items included rice, vegetables, oils, fruits, grains and other items. The Brahmana Yuva Parishat has taken the responsibility for the storeroom, which is being maintained by the people of the Sri Dharmasthala Rural Development Project.
 
 A total 1,800 quintals of rice, 5,550 kg jaggery, 25,000 coconuts, 1,800 litres of oil, 300 bunches of bananas, 4,000 pumpkins, 300 bags of cucumber, 1,800 kg sugar, 3,500 kg Mattu Gulla and other items like potatoes, maize flour, jackfruits, grapes, dry fruits, chilli, pepper, curry leaves, tamarind, lemon and turmeric were received as Horakanike. This time, the offerings also included steel vessels, baskets and small implements for various uses.
 
 
  
 
 
 The   temple, Durbar hall and Palimaru mutt are being decorated by using 4 lakh flowers. A variety of flowers, with different colours and fragrances, gave a perfect festive look to the temple. Jasmine, marigolds, zinnias , ‘jaji mallige’, dahlias, roses, sunflowers and 4,000 arecanuts were used for the decorations. The flowers were brought from Shivamogga, Hassan and Tumakuru. 
 
 Elaborate arrangements have been made to ensure proper security during the Paryaya. As many as 50,000 devotees are expected to participate on Thursday, and about 20,000 devotees visited the mutt on Wednesday. The mutt authorities have made provisions for feeding all the devotees. 
 
 The Paryaya Pejawar seer said dinner will be served to devotees who visit the mutt at night, to view the Paryaya procession. The system will be continued by Palimaru in this paryaya. The dining arrangements are made near the Rajangana parking area. Devotees will be served rice, sambar and a sweet item on the occasion. About 45,000 to 50,000 people are expected to dine on Thursday, after the durbar program. Food will be served at two places in the parking area. The food will be prepared at three places .
 
 Over 200 Rangers and Rovers from 12 colleges in the district have been deployed to serve as volunteers for the dinner, and at the darbar halls.
 
 — Sheeja Moodubelle
 
 
