CHENNAI: The   police department’s flat denial of the continued existence of the ‘orderly’ system in the force since its official abolition in 1979, through a government order, has infuriated the   which on Monday warned officials against making such false submissions in courts.

 “Please warn your authorities not to file such false affidavits, I have exact numbers of orderlies in the force,” Justice N   said to advocate-general of Tamil Nadu  .
 
  
  
 
 An official, who retiredin 1990s isstill providedwithorderlies. In Madurai, a political person, who is also a history-sheeter, was provided with orderlies, of course, in different nomenclatures, the judge added. Noting that he had enough information to prove the existence of the system, Justice Kirubakaran said the authorities could not escape from the court, and that he expected such an affidavit from the department.
 
 “A perusal of the status report would show that the number of police personnel deserting the police force which was 608 in 2008 increased to1,039 in 2017. The increase in number of deserters would go to show the gravity of problems faced by the personnel, which needs to be addressed very urgently. Similarly, for the past 10 years, about 296 personnel are said to have committed suicide and about 3,032 are said to have died while in service,” said Justice Kirubakaran.
 
 Asserting that about 10-15% of the personnel were being used as orderlies, the judge directed the appearance of S Maheswaran, assistant inspector-general of police, who filedthe affidavit, to explain the basis of his submissions.
 
 This apart, Justice Kirubakaran also asked the department for information on the number of vehicles at the disposal of higher officials and family members of the higher officials, bothserving and retired, police drivers employed in the residence of such officials, and of their relatives. The judge also wanted the government to answer as to why definite working hours shall not be fixed, absence of which results in frustration, mental disturbance, violence and corruption.
 
 Noting that it was a fact that the police personnel were being employed for ‘orderly work’ under different nomenclatures as ‘other duty’ to see that the GO passed in 1979 was not violated, Justice Kirubakaran directedthe government to explain as to when the GO dated October 31, 2012 which provided for appointment of residential office assistants to IPS officers would be implemented. He then posted the case to April 23 for passing orders.
 
 
