LUDHIANA: The stage is set for the District Bar Association ( ) elections as voting for the same will be held on Friday. The results will be declared the same day.

 The elections will be held for the posts of president, vice-president, secretary, finance and joint secretary and six executive members.
 
 “We have made preparations for the peaceful and transparent elections for DBA scheduled for Friday. The voting will be held in the bar room from 9am to 4 pm,” said returning officer for elections  .
 
 “Six CCTV cameras have been installed in the election room for ensure smooth and transparent voting. Two LCDS have been installed within the complex so that those outside can see what is happening inside the voting centre. Also we have got 25 cops who will be stationed at the voting centre and outside so that there is no law and order problem,” Palli added.
 
 He said, “We have engaged about 40 advocates for duty of conducting elections and services of non-controversial advocates would be taken for the purpose.”
 
 Palli said to ensure that women advocates and others don’t face any problem, entry for members for voting will be from eastern side through lawyers chambers I and II and separate queues for women lawyers and senior advocates and other advocates will be made.
 
 Additional returning officer   said 2,496 voters, including 400 female voters, would cast their votes in DBA elections. She said in order to avoid bogus voting, no voter will be allowed inside voting centre without identity card and the voters will have to produce identity card issued by Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana and any other ID card.
 
 Another additional returning officer Dr   said an FIR would be lodged against impersonator coming to cast vote. He said counting would start inside the voting centre at 4.30pm and results will be announced afterwards.
 
 The AROs said this is for the first time that NOTA (none of the above) option is introduced in DBA elections. They said they had made efforts to bring in EVMs for the voting process, but that couldn’t be implemented due to shortage of time.
 
 Dr Rakesh Gandhi said 26 candidates are in fray for the various posts. He said there was a proposal to increase the number of executive members from six to 10, but that couldn’t be achieved because of shortage of time.
 
