CHANDIGARH: The prestigious   (PU) may have never had a woman in top administrative posts nor as its council president, but in terms of pass percentage, female PU students have scored over their male counterparts. TOI collected the data of 75 departments and centres of PU, analysed the pass percentage of each course in the final exams of 2016-17 and it revealed that the pass percentage of female students was higher than that of the male students in 40 departments. Male students could outshine females in only 13 departments 

 Contrary to the general perception that women do well in arts and humanities, while men excel in the engineering and sciences, female PU students have higher pass percentage than males in the engineering departments including UIET and Dr SSBUICET. In UIET, the pass percentage of female students in the final exam of 2016-17 was 98% whereas that of male students was 91.47%. However, when it comes to enrolment, male students seem keener than female students in the UIET.
 
 
  
 
 “Women are more sincere and studious, they attend all the classes regularly. This is what makes them   better than their male counterparts. Not only academics, women are also doing well in the industry. For example, this year, the highest package of Rs 20 lakh was grabbed by a female student of UIET. Times are changing and women are doing better than men in the professional courses as well,” said Renu Vig, director of   (UIET), Panjab University, herself a gold medallist in engineering from PU in 1985.
 
 In science, women have an edge in chemistry, physics and botany whereas male students have managed to put up a good show in biotechnology and biophysics. In the department of laws, female students have done better than males by a slender margin. While the pass percentage of women in the department of laws in the final exam of 2016-17 was 87.41%, male students followed them closely at 85.94%.
 
 “Women do well in science subjects too. Moreover, women are more serious than men in academics. During the convocation these days you will see that more women win awards than men. Chemistry and physics had earlier seen the dominance of male students, but now women are doing exceptionally well in these subjects,” said Pam Rajput, founding director of PU’s department –cum-centre of women studies.   recalls she was the only girl student in her law class but now women have raced past men. 
 
 Interestingly, men have outshone women in arts and humanities. In the department of ancient Indian history, culture and archaeology, the pass percentage of male students is 81.25% as compared to that of women whose pass percentage is 72.73%. In the MA (History), the pass percentage of male students is 73.68%, which is higher than that of women in the same course, where their pass percentage is 66.67%. 
 
 In languages, women are ahead of men in Hindi, English and Punjabi, however, male students have done fared better in German and French. Moreover, the certificate course in Russian saw enrolment of 93 boys in 2016-17, however, their pass percentage is still lower than that of female students. While the pass percentage of women is 100% in the certificate course in Russian, male students pass percentage in this particular course is 90.48%.
 
 Moreover, the pass percentage of women and men in 17 departments like political science, psychology, centre for public health and others is equal. The data on the pass percentage of four departments was not available and USOL was not included in the data analysis since it is open learning.
 
 
