Ludhiana: As soon as the Congress got clear majority, race for the post of mayor began and many names started doing the rounds. 

 Senior-most leader Balkar Singh, district president Gurpreet Gogi, Pal Singh Grewal and Mamta Ashu, wife of MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu, are considered frontrunners. Names of some other senior leaders, including Shyam Sunder Malhotra, Amrit Varsha Rampal, Rakesh Prashar and Jaiparkash, are also being bandied about, but they have not registered a continuous victory in their wards.
 
 Balkar Sandhu — whose wife Sneh Balkar also contested but lost — is a strong candidate for the post, as this is his fifth term as a councillor and he won hands down with a staggering margin of 3,903 votes. He said he was expecting to be considered for the top post, but the decision would be taken by the party.
 
 Congress district president Gurpreet Gogi is also presenting himself as a strong candidate. It is his fourth term as a councillor. He has remained quite active in house meetings and said he would be happy to become the first citizen of the city if party gave him a chance. Gogi said he would handle the responsibility well. 
 
 Another candidate is Pal Singh Grewal, who was earlier in the Shiromani Akali Dal but during Assembly elections in 2017 joined the Congress. Even in 2012 when the SAD had elected Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria as the mayor, Grewal was a strong contender. Though he has not lost even a single election, sources in the Congress said party workers may object to his appointment as he came from the Akali Dal. Grewal said the CM would announce the name and he would be happy if given an opportunity. 
 
 Sources in the Congress said there were chances of a woman getting the mayoral post and Amrit Varsha Rampal and Mamta Ashu were strong contenders. However, Amrit Varsha Rampal is senior to Mamta Ashu, but had lost one election. Mamta has strong support from her MLA husband Bharat Bhushan. 
 
 BOX 
 
 THE HOPEFULS 
 
 Balkar Sandhu 
 
 Strong points: Down to earth, approachable, five-time councillor
 
 Weak points: Despite being the senior-most leader, he has no support of other Congress leaders 
 
 Pal Singh Grewal
 
 Strong points: Non-controversial, five-time councillor
 
 Weak points: Comes from Akali Dal, so Congress leaders might object to his elevation as mayor
 
 Gurpreet Gogi
 
 Strong points: Politically active, district president of the party, four-time councillor
 
 Weak points: He is on a lower rung in seniority ladder 
 
 Mamta Ashu
 
 Strong points: Out of women councillors, she is a strong leader and popular in the ward. She is wife of an MLA
 
 Weak points: She is not a senior leader and may not be chosen for mayor’s post
 
 
