NEW DELHI: Last-ball finish and a one-legged six -  's 11th edition produced thrills and spills galore in its first week. Here we look at the seven instances that stood out.

 
 
 
 
 
 When CSK's Kedar Jadhav made a second appearance with seven runs to score off six balls, he had a small problem at hand, or leg to be precise: a torn hamstring. Then, a miracle happened. Jadhav got down to his knees and lifted Mustafizur Rahman over fine leg for six. He then followed it up with a four to seal victory. Now he needs to repair and recover. Jadhav won't play again in  .
 
 
 
 
 
 Nobody has yet a clue to Mayank Markande's googly. MS Dhoni certainly didn't as he was totally flummoxed by the Mumbai Indians legspinner. He wasn't the only one. In two games, the 20-year-old from Bathinda has scalped seven wickets: 3 for 23 against CSK and 4/23 against Sunrisers Hyderabad. Ironically, his team lost both games.
 
 
 
 When KKR batsman Nitish Rana, a part-time off-break bowler at best, was asked to bowl against RCB's super pair, Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers, commentator Anil Kumble wondered if this was the right call. Kumble was made to look silly as Rana scalped de Villiers and Kohli off consecutive balls. That's a story for his grandchildren.
 
 
 
 In his entire career, SRH No. 11 Billy Stanlake had never scored more than five runs. Entrusted with the responsibility of taking his side home with one ball to go against MI, Billy nonchalantly smote the ball over deep midwicket making himself a household name in Hyderabad
 
 
 
 When Mustafizur started the over, SRH needed to score 12 runs off 12 balls with three wickets left. Six balls later, it was 11 needed off six with one wicket left. In one lethal over, the Bangladeshi left-arm medium pacer had brought his team back in the game as he had done for his country against India in the Nidahas Trophy final last month. Unfortunately, it wasn't enough on both occasions.
 
 
 
 The Andre Russell yorker was perfect. Fast, low and heading towards the middle stump like a guided missile. But CSK's Sam Billings had an irresistible counter. The 26-year-old Englishman just shuffled towards the off stump and scooped the ball over deep fine leg. Nobody has improvised on the Doughlas Marillier scoop any better.
 
 
 
 When you score a half century in a record 14 balls, a few shots are bound to be special. Among them, Kings XI Punjab's   will surely remember the falling hook, made famous by Rohan Kanhai, the West Indies batting great. Team co-owner Priety Zinta couldn't contain her delight.
 
 
  
  
