Nagpur: Tuesday saw many happy faces outside the exam centres as   was not a tough not to crack for many students. What the students lacked in time management, it got compensated with an easy set of questions.

 According to experts, the passing percentage is definitely going to be higher this year. Harendra Tiwari, a Hindi teacher at Delhi Public School, said, “The paper was very easy as compared to what was taught to the students. All the questions were from the syllabus with a very lucid and straightforward language used.”
 
 The students were asked to pay special attention to the poetry section as it is deemed as tougher. “The unseen passages and poetry could have been difficult for the students, but nothing was unsolvable. With investing a little more time in reading and understanding the poems, students could have aced it as well,” Tiwari said.
 
 The students rejoiced as the writing skills section was a piece of cake. Student Piyush Pawar said, “I found the paper very easy and attempted all the questions. The advertisement section was the most fun to write. I hope I did not make any major mistakes while writing as I was running a little short of time towards the end.”
 
 However, a few students felt that there was a time crunch, which is usually the case in language papers. Kirti Selokar felt the same and said, “Although I knew the answers to all the questions, I could not complete all the sections as I struggled with time management. The paper was very easy with simple grammar and proses.”
 
 There are many test series and pre-board exams organized in and outside the school which help in preparing the students for board exams.
 
 Almira Mirza was one such student who took advantage of these tests. “I am happy with my exam as I was able to answer all the questions on time. It surely helped that all the questions were known to me because of pre-board tests in our school. I got worried for a moment because the paper was a bit lengthy, but thankfully I solved everything,” said Almira.
 
 Azmat Pathan said, “Although a bit lengthy, the exam was a lot easier than the preliminary exam of our school. I was expecting a tougher grammar section than on the paper.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness- Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Proper
 
 
