NEW DELHI:   president   continued his attack on PM   over his “silence” on the Punjab National   and Rafale fighter jet deal, saying the country wants to hear about these issues in his “Mann Ki Baat”.

 
 In a tweet, Rahul said, “Modiji, last month you ignored my suggestions for your “Mann Ki Baat” monologue. Why ask for ideas when in your heart you know every Indian wants to hear you speak about Nirav Modi’s Rs 22,000 crore loot and scoot and the Rs 58,000 crore Rafale scam.”
 
 “I look forward to your sermon,” the Congress chief said, attaching a picture of Modi’s tweet urging people to share ideas for his monthly radio programme “Mann Ki Baat”.
 
 In a scathing attack on Modi in poll-bound Meghalaya, Rahul called the PM an “instrument of corruption”. Talking to reporters, the Congress chief, when asked about the  , said, “Narendra Modi is not against corruption, he is an instrument of corruption.”
 
 Rahul has targeted the PM over his silence on the bank scam involving Nirav Modi, alleging that the tainted businessman fled the country after protection from the “powers that be”. Gandhi has also been attacking the government on the Rafale deal. 
 
 
 
 Reacting to Rahul Gandhi’s “instrument of corruption” jibe at PM Narendra Modi, BJP on Wednesday mocked at the Congress president terming him successor of a party which has a long history of corruption right from the “jeep scandal” of 1948. 
 
 “There cannot be a bigger irony than Rahul Gandhi talking about corruption. He himself is on bail in a Rs 500 crore National Herald scam and there were a number of scams during the UPA when his mother was the Congress president and de facto head of the government,” said BJP spokesperson Anil Baluni.
 
 The BJP leader said Rahul Gandhi should also shed light on who was “instrument of corruption” in Coalgate, CWG scam, 2G spectrum scam, Agusta Westland scam. “Corruption during UPA paralysed the Indian economy. On the other hand, the NDA under PM Narendra Modi has shown resolve to punish the corrupt,” Baluni said.
 
 He recalled the 1948 Jeep scandal saying that the nation had just attained freedom but the greed of Congress didn’t spare the nation which was still in infancy.
 
