LUCKNOW: UP   chairman,   on Wednesday lodged an FIR against spokesman of the   (AIMPLB), Maulana Sajjad  , on sedition charges. 

 In his written complaint with the Hazratganj police station,   claimed that in a speech on February 9 at the general council meeting of the AIMPLB in Hyderabad,   had displayed feelings of hate against the country, communities and religions. "Referring to Rohingya Muslims, Maulana Sajjad Nomani had in his speech said that all things have been readied for making the situation of Indian Muslims like their Rohingya counterpart. He even said that he had proof of arms, ammunition and training being given to all even in the smallest of villages to make Indian Muslims suffer. This speech was widely broadcast by television channels, having a mass impact," claimed Rizvi in his complaint. 
 
 Based on Rizvi's formal complaint, an FIR was lodged against Maulana Nomani at Hazratganj police station under sections 124 A, 153 A and B and 298 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). These correspond to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups, imputations, assertions, prejudicial to national integration and uttering words etc with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person, respectively. 
 
 He added, “I had first reported the incident to the police on February 13, but my application was sent back by the Hazratganj police on February 22. The official concerned said that the incident took place in Hyderabad and that I had no proof of the incident happening.” Rizvi said, “I then wrote to the senior superintendent of police with the video copy of Maulana Nomani’s speech as telecast by a television news channel nationally.”
 
 When TOI contacted  , he rubbished all allegations as false and baseless and said that he will take up the matter and present his case on the right forum. “All the things being said are 100% false. Thousands of speeches made by me are available where I have spoken of national unity, love for the nation and of loyalty towards the country. Thousands of such articles written by me are also present and this has been my mission since the last 30 years.”
 
 
 
