MUMBAI: If you boarded a flight from Mumbai on Sunday and it took off on time, in all probability it was an early morning departure. 

 After noon, particularly in the evening, almost all departures were delayed by an average of an hour, while arrivals were about 30 minutes late; 500   were delayed throughout the day, the worst-hit being in the evening and late night as the airport managed with only basic navigation aid, with gusting   adding to delays.
 
 
  
 
 The airport’s instrument landing system (ILS), a navigation aid that allows air-traffic control ( ) to stack arrivals close to each other, will remain switched off on runway 27 till June 5 for an upgrade. Sources   efforts were on to finish the work by June 2. 
 
 What was commendable was that even with only basic navigation aid, Mumbai’s ATC managed to handle about 45 landings and take-offs an hour. With ILS, the runway can handle up to 54 flights an hour. Since delays are expected to continue this month, airfares on early morning flights out of Mumbai are likely to go up in the coming days.
 
 On Sunday, on a 24-hour advance purchase, the fare on the much-coveted early morning Delhi-Mumbai flight was Rs 10,000, while the cheapest fare for the day was Rs 8,000, which was for a seat on a late-evening flight.
 
 Throughout Sunday, Mumbai airport stayed put on the top 10 list of worst airports in the world for flight delays. On flightradar24, a live-flight tracking website, between 4pm and 6pm, Mumbai airport ranked second, after   in China, for having the highest number of delayed flights.
 
 Bad   added to the workload of ATC and pilots of aircraft that landed between 1.30pm and 4.30pm as winds gusting at 35 kmph further slowed down flight movement. “Flight operations were moved to secondary runway 32 between noon to 4pm to carry out routine maintenance of the main runway. Wind added to delays,” said a senior air-traffic controller.
 
 BGupta, booked on a Mumbai-Lucknow flight scheduled to depart at 12.25pm but which eventually left at 3.40pm, said she left home around 10am. “I was travelling with a toddler. Had I received flight delay messages earlier, I would have left home only by noon,” she said. Said an airline official: “We haven’t been able to gauge how delayed would the arrival of a flight that left on time be and so it’s not possible to send delay messages to passengers booked on the next departure.”
 
