In the latest episode of   reassures   that their difficult times are over now.  's  , who entered the house under a false pretense, cuts the electricity power and informs the former of the same.

 
 Meanwhile the family gets ready for their photo shoot.   goes upstairs to bring something for Avni and Neil. DD, who is on the run from the goons, reaches Neil's residence and asks the constable to inform the family that Vidyut is here. Neil's dad answers the phone and delivers the news to the family as they make their way in the dark. After cutting the power, Vidyut enters the house.
 
 
 Avni says that she will get Bebe and   and try to divert Vidyut. Neela is upstairs, she doesn’t know Vidyut has come. Neela, who is still upstairs, is unaware of what's going on downstairs. She gets alarmed when she hears Shweta, who is attacked by the goons, shouting for help. Neil asks Ali to take the family members out of the house. Neil catches the goon and asks   to run. Vidyut is seen approaching Neil with a knife in his hand.
 
 
 Meanwhile, DD tells the constable that he will enter the house and attack on Vidyut. 
 
 
 Back inside the house, Avni sees the attacker and alerts Neil. The latter fights with the goon, who turns out to be Vidyut.
 
 
 DD calls the station and asks for back up. Avni and Bebe decide to go to kitchen and hide there. Goon catches Avni. She acts to faint and kicks him.
 
 
 Ali tries to join the wires. Neil asks Ali to take them out. Neil hears Neela and goes there. Goon hits Ali on his head and Avni, Bebe and Mishti run out. DD arrives on the scene and Avni runs inside the house to help Neil.
 
 
 Neil asks Neela to stay inside the room till everything is under control. He asks Vidyut to come out in the open. He chases Vidyut in the dark. Avni is attacked by a goon but she overpowers him and suffocates him.
 
 
 Neil has a face-off with Vidyut and shoots to scare him but a goon beats him and Vidyut runs away. Meanwhile, a goon shoots at Avni's leg. Just in time, the Police arrives and the power is restored. As everyone gathers in the room and checks on each other, Neela, who is wounded in the back, falls down the stairs. Thereby, leaving everyone shocked.
 
