Trichy: Riding on the momentum after the city was ensured a place in the Tamil Nadu defence quad, trade bodies have planned to identify strongholds of the industries here to address the demands of the armed forces. Potential sectors like preparation of value added products from fruits and vegetables, fabrication and heavy engineering have been identified wherein the city could contribute its share in addressing defence needs without depending on imports. After the provisions for creating two defence corridors were announced in the budget 2018-19, the defence ministry selected Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh as products manufacturing corridors. Defence officials said that Tamil Nadu was chosen because of its expertise in designing and manufacturing components and also by citing the accumulation of top educational institutions here. With more than 2,500 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in Trichy, a majority serving as ancillary units of Bhel have found a place in the quad connecting Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Salem, and Hosur and from there to Bengaluru. Earlier, with only 10 industries here involved in defence products’ manufacturing such as heavy batteries and electro-mechanical devices, the quad is expected to improve the number of companies involved in defence manufacturing to at least 100 units. “Since the MSMEs have experience in manufacturing precise products for Bhel, little more upgrade in skills and production technology can make industries here to excel in the defence quad,” managing director, High Energy Batteries Pvt Limited, one of the defence products producers in Trichy, G A Padanjali said. At a meeting organised by the Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) here on Friday, small scale industries were briefed about the dos and dont’s to make use of opportunities available in defence quad. The participants were informed to check the products in need for the defence units including army, navy and air force listed online in the official website of Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM). “There is good opportunity for Trichy-based SMEs to contribute in ship building sector as expertise in making products Bhel would come handy. High quality and reliability will be expected,” Padanjali told industrialists. TIDITSSIA members said that a list of SMEs interested to participate in defence quad will be prepared for a consolidated approach to attract industrial investments such as skill development centre in Trichy. “We are presently exporting value-added products from vegetables and fruits to South East Asian nations besides products from pulses. Such healthy products can be supplied to the defence units,” president of TIDITSSIA, N Kanagasabapathy told TOI. Trade bodies here have planned to work together for identifying the potentials of industrialists in Trichy to address the demands of the defence ministry.