Oxygen rich blood is supplied to heart through three major coronary arteries which are running over the surface of the heart. Lack of blood flow to any section of the heart muscles results in death of that part – it is commonly called “Heart Attack”. Coronary artery disease (CAD) results due to deposition of a waxy substance called cholesterol which builds up a plaque inside the arterial wall over years of fat consumption, smoking, stress, obesity and lack of exercise. Plaque in the coronary artery can get eroded or rupture one fine morning without any warning symptoms leading to acute heart attacks. Diabetes and hypertension accelerate this process of Atherosclerosis (plaque build-up) in coronary arteries. Sudden death can occur in approximately 20-30% patients at home or on the way to hospital. This usually happens due to sudden stoppage of effective heart beat called Ventricular Tachycardia (VT) or Ventricular Fibrillation (VF). In a hospital setting, such arrhythmias (irregular heartbeat) are treated by DC Cardioversion (Shock treatment).

 Many patients are not sure of the symptoms of heart attack; hence delay in responding and reaching the hospital. Some of the most common warning symptoms of a   are chest pain or discomfort in the centre of the chest or left arm, which feels like pressure, squeezing or fullness. It can also feel like indigestion, heart burn or throat choking. These symptoms may be accompanied by dizziness, vomiting and breathlessness as well. Breaking out in cold sweats, extreme tiredness, unusual decline in stamina are some of the other presenting symptoms of heart attack. Sometimes, the symptoms are so subtle that people are surprised to know that they have suffered a heart attack. Quick action by taking a Disprin dissolved in water at home and rushing to nearest cath lab enabled hospital are the key to survival.
 
 Treatment of heart attack should be instituted as soon as possible so as to minimize the damage caused due to lack of oxygen rich blood supply. Treatment constitutes resuming blood flow through the blocked artery either by drugs like thrombolytic drugs or mechanical revascularization (the process of restoring the flow of blood to the heart) as in angioplasty and putting a scaffolding tube (stent) inside the artery. This procedure is very swift and safe in expert hands. One can prevent CAD by avoiding cholesterol rich food, trans-fat, excessive sweets and a 30 minutes brisk walk regularly. Use of tobacco should be avoided; Blood Pressure should be monitored regularly to keep under control and taking regular medication for diabetes as prescribed by your physician. Stress free life style goes a long way in preventing premature CAD.
 
 After a heart attack many patients worry about having another heart attack. Sometimes they feel depressed and anxious; these are the ones who are more susceptible to another heart attack. As in a heart break, the feeling of loneliness surrounds a traumatized mind, similarly following a heart attack; one may feel a sense of doom and develop a gloomy perspective of productive years to come in one’s career. 
 
 Large scale studies show that 15% of people, who survive a heart attack, become quite seriously depressed in the first few weeks and another 25% experience the mild levels of depression or anxiety. Anxiolytic (anti-anxiety) and anti-depressants may be taken for relief of such symptoms. Resumption of sexual activity is also ridden with substantial anxiety and fear of over exerting oneself during this physical and emotional experience. It is advised to resume slow sexual activity after a few weeks of recovery from a heart attack and avoiding intake of drugs like Viagra (sildenafil) especially if nitrates have been prescribed by your doctor. This may result in a sharp fall in blood pressure and dizzy feeling. Driving is also permitted after a few weeks of heart attack if it is free of complications like heart failure. Support of family and friends is of utmost importance in the phase of recovery from a heart attack. Joining social groups, interacting with people who have recovered from a heart attack and participating in creative, entertaining hobbies will definitely help recover faster after a heart attack.
 
 
 
 
