 needs no introduction. Flip through Telugu channels at prime time, and chances are you’ll find him on more than one channel, either chatting up celebs, engaging young adults in game shows, or generally cracking you up with his brand of cheeky humour. His small screen popularity has made him one of the most loved stars on social media as well. Sample this: 2,054,234 followers on Facebook, 976K on Twitter and 739k on Instagram! And as his stocks grew, Pradeep’s desirability stakes too shot through the roof! From your 
Telugu boy-next-door, he’s transformed into a dapper dude who can rock everything from power suits in purple to fancy fauxhawks, like a boss. Little wonder then that Pradeep Machiraju is the first ever Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Man on Television 2017. In a candid chat, a “very chuffed” Pradeep who “cannot believe this” talks about what makes him sexy, how he handles female attention and what it feels like to be termed a ‘desirable man’ Excerpts...
 
 
 
 (Laughs) All I say is, Oh my God..! I mean, it surely feels good to hear this first thing in the morning. Imagine waking up, having your cup of coffee while seeing your name flashed in Hyderabad Times as the ‘Most desirable man’. Whoa! it’s all thanks to TV — I love TV and live TV! It’s given me name, fame and made me what I am today. Television has become such a big medium that people today, look up to it like they used to look up to films. I’m super kicked about this new tag of being ‘desirable’. I guess there will be an added pressure now, albeit a good one. Such things motivate me to do better work. I have a long way to go. 
 
 
 
 (Smiles) Different people like different things in me — some like my attitude, some like my style and some like my work. So, I guess there are different aspects to desirability. But I think my smile is what makes me most desirable. That, and the vibes I give out people have always told me that they get positive vibes from me. If somebody talks to me for 10 minutes, they want to talk more and more. I also think someone who inspires others becomes desirable. somehow, I think I’ve managed to inspire a lot of youngsters to do something in life. 
 
  
 Well, I’m a fan of Nagarjunagaru and have been following him for years — the way he carries himself, his style, acting, the kind of films he does or characters he plays. He has motivated me to be on the big screen. Among girls, I like Kajal Aggarwal’s smile (laughs). People who know about this fan boy in me tease me because the moment anybody takes her name, there’s a smile on my face. 
 
 
 It has to be her smile for sure, because when a girl smiles, rather anybody smiles, you get to know if they are genuine or fake and what kind of a person he/she is. It’s a really important aspect for me. 
 
 
 That’s because I feel it’s my duty to look good on screen, as so many people look up to me when I’m on stage. hosting is not only about how well you talk, it’s also about how good you look. right from my school days I’ve been like this, trying out new trends, experimenting with different colour combinations et al. I’m always up-to-date with trends. Not many know this, but I style myself. I pick my own clothes, and have a huge wardrobe. Good clothes are my passion (laughs). 
 
 
 That’s because I haven’t dated anybody. I’ve been single throughout. I have no time for love right now and I’m happy to be single, because once you get into a relationship, you enter into a world of responsibilities. Every girl has a few expectations, she needs your time and attention, but if your brain is always thinking about TV shows, telecasts, TRPs, accounts and 18 per cent GST (laughs), then it wouldn’t be fair to her. While I cannot give my time to anybody right now, I’m watching my married friends and learning from them how marriage is, what relationships are. So, you can say, I’m in preparation. 
 
 
 I spend 18-19 hours a day in studios, but when I’m not working, I’m home with my family, troubling my mother. If not that, I hangout with my school friends. I don’t socialise much unless it’s obligatory to attend some wedding/function/event. And I love cricket, so whenever I get some time out, I play cricket with my friends during evenings at grounds in Financial District. That’s my world.
 
 
 (Smiles) Yes, I have many female fans and a few of them make me emotional. So, when I travel for awards/events/concerts abroad or even here in the state, it’s normal to see fans jump up and down excitedly or wanting to shake hands. But then, there are some female fans who simply burst into tears; they just want to touch me, or hold my hand, and they break down. It moves me. I start thinking what did I do, why is she crying? What made her get so emotional? When I see someone cry, I stop and ask them why they are crying? And they say, ‘I never thought I’ll be able to meet you in life, I watch you everyday on TV, today suddenly you are in front of me’. Some fans also get me handmade gifts like miniature art, paintings etc. More than happy, I feel lucky to have such loving female fans (laughs). 
 
 
 I have to thank my debut show Gadasari Atta Sogasari Kodalu for that. It was a saas-bahu game show where we would go to different villages in Andhra Pradesh. The show helped me connect 
 not only with women, but also their families — from old ladies to their daughters and sons and grandkids, everyone watched the show, making it a huge hit. It got me a Nandi Award as well. Since then, I’ve been entertaining everyone from six-year-olds to 60-year-olds. 
 
 
 Right now, I’m working on two shows on two different channels, so 30 days go doing just that. There’s no time to even rest (laughs). I get to relax only when I get a gap from shoots. I’m keen to do more films actually, but I either don’t have the time or don’t get anything exciting. earlier, I would say yes to all film offers that came my way and adjust my dates, because films won’t wait for me. But not anymore. There’s nothing like big screen or small screen these days; we’re entertainers and just search for the right medium to entertain people. 
 
 
