NEW DELHI:   in Finland and Ireland aren’t of any  . They just have a ‘taxi’ sign on the roof. Is this one reason why taxis do not create mind images of the cities in these countries, like the yellow cabs of New York or the black of London? Indeed, the colour, or livery, of a taxi not only distinguishes it from other vehicles on the street, but imparts an emblematic image to a city. Think of the kaali peeli of Delhi and Mumbai or Kolkata’s   with a blue sash.

 New York City chose a particular shade of yellow for its taxis based on a scientific study that the most colour most identifiable from a distance was yellow. And yellow, with the mix of black, is the predominant livery of taxis across the world, including India. That is not to say other cities have embraced the sunny shade. Choice of cab colour elsewhere depends on who operates the taxis, the areas the taxis run in, cultural background, environmental concerns, even gender. 
 
 From the time they started as horse-drawn hackney carriages in London and Paris in the early 17th century, taxis have become urban necessities. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The first modern taxis, operating in London and New York in the late 19th century, were electric powered, with petrol and diesel cabs making their appearance much later. The word ‘taxi’ itself is believed to be a shortened form of taximeter, first manufactured in Germany around this time.
 
 A picture postcard of New York City cannot do without the ubiquitous yellow cabs. Taxis in the US, however, were not yellow to begin with. Their hues depended on which company owned them. When two major transport providers — New York’s Yellow Taxicab Company and Chicago’s Yellow Cab Company — chose yellow as their signature colour, their vehicles stood out on the streets. Then a study by a US University established that yellow was best seen from afar and yellow became the official livery for taxis in the late 1960s. And it’s not just any yellow, but the Dupont M6284 shade. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 A more recent study by the National University of Singapore also revealed that the city-state’s   were less likely to be involved in an accident than its blue cabs. 
 
 Today, yellow is the predominant colour for taxis in places as diverse as Taiwan, Russia, Spain, Australia, Pakistan, Canada, Argentina and, of course, India. 
 
 Many cities have embraced other hues. Both Malaysia and Hong Kong have opted for red and white liveries. In Hong Kong, however, the colour on the streets in the new territories and Lantau Island is green and blue, respectively. In Greece, while Athens has yellow taxis, other cities prescribe other shades, including blue, red and white.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The most colourful taxis in the world, however, are found in Thailand. Taxi colours in Bangkok range from green, blue and red to orange, yellow, pink, purple and violet. There is, however, a method behind the pigments. The colours are codes signifying if the taxi is company-owned, is a personal taxi or a rental taxi. Similarly, the colourful roofs of Dubai’s taxis denote company ownership. But it also has a distinct pink coloured cab; this is meant exclusively for women traveling alone or with their families. 
 
 Colours can have other implications, as Mexico City has proved. Protesting taxi owners were forced to repaint their cars every few years, whenever there was a change of guard in the city’s ruling regime. The latest outcry is against the order to paint all taxis pink or Rosa Mexicana. Taxi owners sulked at the extra cost they had to bear, while others cringed at the ‘unaesthetic’ hue. 
 
 
