NEW DELHI: Inside the   on   Road lie several closely packed houses. In their midst is a mausoleum of the Sufi saint after whom the settlement, which probably came up after Partition, is named. But also buried nearby is  , the co-founder of   Millia Islamia and a pioneer of  . 

 “He was a philanthropist, a famous hakim, and a freedom fighter who was a contemporary of Gandhiji and took part in the Khilafat Movement. But today his name is hardly heard except for a road and a park in central Delhi named after him,” said Masroor Ahmed, Khan’s great grandnephew who lives in their heritage haveli in the Walled City’s Ballimaran area. 
 
 Ahmed is among the few of the family who stayed back in India; the rest migrated to Pakistan and established a Unani medicine business there. “His relatives from Pakistan continue to come here regularly and pray at his grave,” said Mohammad Imran, who lives in a house adjacent to the grave.
 
 The grave is in a terrible shape and has nothing but a headstone bearing the name of Khan. “It were the Pakistani relatives who came here and put up iron grilles to make the grave distinct as this whole place is filled with many graves,” Imran said.
 
 Ahmed however said the people who live around the graves are encroachers. “It’s my family graveyard and several of my ancestors lie there,” he said. 
 
 He also blamed the government for not doing enough. “For all these years, the grave was in a shambles. No one from the government or the Waqf Board ever bothered to save it. The stature that my great granduncle had, he deserved a beautiful mausoleum, much like the Zakir Hussain monument at Jamia,” Ahmed said.
 
 Historian Rana Safvi, however, blamed it on the family for the state of the grave: “The family could have done more for the grave. They should go there regularly and perform prayers.”
 
 “When I came here, there was nothing on his name to pay respects. It was then that we decided to initiate programmes on his name and have inaugurated an exhibition at the university’s Premchand archives,” vice-chancellor Talat Ahmed said, adding that the university would now have PhD and diploma courses on Unani medicine. 
 
 
