BENGALURU: The Indian Medical Association’s call to suspend routine services in private hospitals across the country on Tuesday, in protest against the National Medical Commission Bill, did not disrupt OPD services at most private healthcare institutions in the city. The strike call was withdrawn later in the afternoon.

 Private hospitals such as Hosmat, Fortis, HCG, Manipal and St John’s functioned normally in the morning, though some doctors did keep away from work. Several OPD patients in these hospitals were seen awaiting their turn, as on any other day.
 
 “It was left to individual doctors to go on strike if they wanted to. Our hospital is functioning normally. We’re not denying treatment or patient walk-ins at the OPD,” said Dr Sudarshan Ballal, chairman at Manipal Hospitals.
 
 Dr  , chief medical officer at St John’s Hospital, said: “Many patients travel long distances to reach our OPD. Shutting down OPDs will become a huge crisis for such patients, hence we are running full-fledged OPDs. However, we’ve given our doctors the liberty to keep off work in support of the protest.”
 
 The OPD at Apollo Hospital and Belle Vue’s Cambridge Hospital looked deserted in the morning as they had partially shut OPD services.
 
 But all emergencies were treated and patients were informed to advance or postpone appointments scheduled on Tuesday. However, no patients were seen queuing up at the hospital counter. Apollo Hospital opened its OPD services at 4pm, after the strike was called off.
 
 Dr BS  , chairman at HCG cancer hospital, said: “It is not fair to refuse treatment to cancer patients at the OPD, and we are running our OPD services as usual. However, the proposed bill is a disaster as it could bring down quality healthcare. Engaging ayurvedic doctors for allopathy through only a bridge course is not acceptable, as it would collapse the whole system.”
 
 “The government should have a dialogue with IMA and all other stakeholders, nominate a representative and form an autonomous body without ministers or bureaucrats to keep corruption in control,” he added.
 
 Government hospitals like the National Institute of   and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology, Victoria Hospital and   did not see a surge in the number of OPD patients till late noon, although they were prepared to handle additional patients in anticipation of disruption in services at private hospitals. All these hospitals received the normal number of OPD patients -- 700 to 1500 -- as on other days.
 
 “There was no inconvenience for patients in the OPD,” said Dr  , director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology.
 
 “We are prepared to take care of any number of patients, but there hasn’t been much of a difference in the number of patients visiting the hospital today and on any average day. Everything is normal,” said a senior doctor from Victoria Hospital.
 
 
