THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   is planning a foray into geriatric care sector and offer free care for elderly people who have been left alone in the autumn of their lives. 

 The project 'Harsham-Happiness Redefined', would ensure care for aged people 'at a time when they need it most', with the support of HAP (Health Action by People), an NGO and the Hindustan Latex Family Planning and Promotion Council. 
 
  
  
 
 The project, with financial assistance from the  , will also provide jobs for around 1,000 women under   this year.
 
 The aim is to form groups of around 100 volunteers in each district to help aged people who live alone or under adverse circumstances with least support, including those who are bedridden, said Kudumbashree executive director S  .
 
 To begin with, 90 selected women from Kannur and Kozhikode will get trained in geriatric care next month. It will be a 15-day residential programme starting from May 15. "We are considering those aged below 55 years, with good physical capabilities and an aptitude for serving the society," Harikishore said. 
 
 The training programme will be extended to other districts in the near future and the respective district coordinators will select volunteers. Training will be given to selected volunteers in two 30-member batches.
 
 People can avail of the project's services through call centres or online round the clock. The volunteers, after collecting the details of people who have requested for services or care, will proceed to their houses to impart the services. The help of CDS-ADS (community development societies and area development societies) workers will be sought to gather information about the callers, Harikishore said.
 
 "The local bodies have already initiated a palliative care project as part of the state government's welfare programmes aimed to turn   into an elderly-friendly state. Many aged people, who are bedridden, have been receiving care under the project. But shortage of volunteers and employees is still a major hurdle, and many needy people have been denied care in time," Harikishore said.
 
 
