GHAZIABAD: The   on Wednesday warned the governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi for their failure to comply with its earlier order to conduct an inspection of   operating in their respective areas, saying that it would impose a fine on them on the next date of hearing on May 2 if they do not submit a compliance report.

 On February 7, the tribunal had issued notices to the four states and the Union ministry of environment and forests over illegal operation of brick kilns in their respective areas. It had directed the state pollution control board of all the four states to inspect all brick kilns mentioned by the petitioner,  , a Delhi-based environmentalist, in his plea and examine as to whether they are complying with the environmental norms or not.
 
 The   had also directed them to initiate action against the owners of illegal units, and submit their reports by March 6. However, state governments and the Union environment ministry are yet to file their replies.
 
 Hearing the plea on Wednesday, the NGT stated: “Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi NCT and the state PCBs are given the last opportunity to comply with the order on February 7, 2018, for the filing of the report in respect of all brick kilns within the area referred in the original application. In case they fail to do before the next date of hearing they would be liable to saddle with cost.”
 
 As far as filing of reply to Singh’s petition, the court set the deadline of April 13 for the states to do so. The petitioner, Shailesh Singh, had included seven districts of UP including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Hapur and Muzaffarnagar, 13 districts of Haryana including Gurugram and two districts—Alwar and Bharatpur—of Rajasthan, besides Delhi government in his petition related to the brick kilns.
 
 Singh had alleged that brick kilns in these four states have been operating without complying with the pollution norms, causing immense air and water pollution and also without obtaining necessary clearances from the authorities concerned.
 
 
