BENGALURU: The lush   and its vicinity will soon wear a new look, with the government having commissioned multiple development projects.

 Located in  , the 85-acre park is the third largest in the city and has a musical fountain, swimming pool, gym, playgrounds and walking tracks.
 
 “Cobblestones are being laid on the main walking track, while the sand pathway has already been completed. We’ll build a badminton court and a Rs 3-crore sewage treatment plant inside the park, which has already been approved,”   (ward 17) councillor   said. 
 
  B, a regular in the park, said walking on the sand pathway is like walking along a beach. “They started work 4-5 months ago and 75% of it is over. They have also started laying cobblestones on the main walking track, which earlier, was just cemented. The park looks better now,” he said. All the railings along the paths inside the park have been replaced, and a separate outdoor gym for women was opened in February last year. 
 
 Some walkers, however, beg to differ. “Over the past one year, a lot of work has been carried out but most were unnecessary,” said  , a regular walker. According to her, the cement pathway was fine, but there was no need to replace railings. “This is just a waste of money. Instead of simply beautifying the park, they should clean water bodies, which are quite stinky, and also the gardens,” she added.
 
 Pointing at the posters of Rajarajeshwari Nagar MLA Munirathna, which are prominently displayed in the park, a walker termed the project a ‘political stunt’. 
 
 Work continues outside the park boundaries as well, with the storm water drain (SWD) along the Tank Bund Road being remodelled. “The SWD is being desilted and new slabs are being laid. We’ll install LED bulbs outside the park at a cost of Rs 60 lakh,” said Mamtha.
 
 The BBMP earlier this week floated a tender for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for barricading footpaths and other works on the north and south sides of JP Park Double Road, and for providing drinking water in the ward. “We’ve asked for DPRs for all three projects and if multiple agencies come forward, they can work simultaneously. The last day for submission of bids is February 14. Once the technical and financial bids are approved, we will issue work orders in a week,” said   M, executive engineer, Rajarajeshwari Nagar.
 
 
