KOCHI: The Kochi   Rail Ltd ( ) signed an agreement with the district auto rickshaw driver's unions’ coordination committee to bring 15,000 autorickshaws under a registered society on Tuesday. The formation of the society will help the launch of fleet-based operations and ride-hailing of auto rickshaws using apps.

 The initiative steered by the Metro agency is part of   government’s project 'Seamless transportation for Kochi'. It’s the first time a government agency is encouraging auto rickshaws to become part of the urban transport network. Connecting auto rickshaws with public transportation system can bring in remarkable changes in the city traffic.
 
 Kochi has more byroads and service roads than main roads and auto rickshaws are considered the best mode of feeder service. “We have strated the process of installing the mobile app. The auto rickshaws will function as share autos and this system is benefitial for both drivers and commuters. These autos will ply along the feeder routes identified by Kochi Metro. The feeder routes cover a maximum of 1.5 km. When a single commuter hires an auto the person will have to shell out Rs 20, when there are two persons the rate is Rs 10 and when there are three persons the rate is Rs 7,” said the KMRL spokesperson. She said that the number of feeder routes will vary depending on the stations. “There will be feeder maps inside and outside the station to assist commuters,” she added.
 
 The integration of auto rickshaws will help commuters avail three types of services: 'Hire auto', a normal service that transports people from one destination to other, 'smart auto,' the service that comes to the doorstep and can be booked through an app, and the 'feeder auto', which will pick people from feeder routes.
 
 The new system will have GPS tracking, mobile journey planner and smart card ticketing. The system is expected to put an end to the disputes between auto rickshaw drivers and passengers over fares. As the passengers are informed about the fare online ahead of the journey and are also provided the option of using Kochi 1 cards there wouldn’t be any confusion about the fare.
 
 Earlier, private bus operators in the city had come together to form societies for operating fleets in the   area.
 
