NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Wednesday   over   of   and   at the beginning of this year, wondering what will happen when the monsoon draws near.

 It asked the local commissioner appointed by it earlier to inspect waste disposal in various parts of the city, including garbage dumps, to verify if waste management bylaws, which were notified recently, were actually being implemented by the civic bodies.
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar reminded the agencies that these diseases attained emergency proportions in the past and agencies must be vigilant to prevent an outbreak. It noted that in the first two months of 2018, six cases of dengue, two of malaria and one of chikungunya have already been reported in Delhi.
 
 The court was hearing two PILs on the failure of agencies to check spread of these vector-borne diseases and seeking a time-bound action plan. The high court also asked the municipal bodies and the Delhi government if they have a policy to deal with the disposal of e-waste, saying it is a “critical area” that hasn’t been getting enough attention. The court sought assistance from environmentalist Sunita Narain and asked her to give a report in this regard.
 
 During the hearing, the bench also directed Delhi Cantonment Board (DCB) to inform it on the next date of hearing—April 11—if the waste management bylaws were being implemented in the areas under its jurisdiction. The order came after DCB said while it was following the waste management bylaws, it needed instructions from the ministry of defence to change any pre-existent practice.
 
 The high court was hearing two PILs filed by advocates Arpit Bhargava and Gauri Grover seeking directions to the authorities to take steps to prevent the spread of vector-borne diseases. Earlier, the court, which was of the view that garbage and lack of cleanliness also contributed to the spread of vector-borne diseases, looked into the issue of solid waste management as well. It had, thereafter, ordered the framing of waste management bylaws.
 
 On Wednesday, the corporations told the bench that they had uploaded the bylaws on their websites and were imposing fines on those violating them. They also said they have collected lakhs of rupees in fines for violation of sanitary rules and the bylaws.
 
 
