MUMBAI:A key witness told a special trial court on Wednesday that  , an associate of  , was killed in a fake encounter by the   and Rajasthan police while in judicial custody for a murder case. 

 The Rajasthan-based witness, who was Prjapati’s lawyer in the 2004 gangster   murder case, told the court that these events were true to the application filed by Prajapati before the magistrate in Udaipur on February 2, 2006, in which Prajapati had expressed fears he would be killed in a fake encounter. 
 
 It is the CBI’s case that after “gangster” Sohrabuddin was killed in an alleged fake encounter in November 2005, Prajapati an eyewitness, was killed similarly a year later, on December 26, 2006. The witness is among the 73 witnesses to depose in the case so far. While he did not deviate from his statement to the CBI, 50 others have been declared hostile by the prosecution so far for not supporting its case. The court ordered that the witness be provided protection after he expressed fears for his life. 
 
 In his statement to the court, the witness claimed that Prajapati had told him that while he was arrested by a team of the Udaipur police on November 26, 2005 in the Hamid Lala murder case, he was shown arrested only three days later. The witness iterated that on December 11, 2005, after seeking permission from the judicial magistrate to consult with him in the murder case, Prajapati told him that Sohrabuddin was traced by the cops after obtaining his location details from him. 
 
 The witness said that Prajapati told him that thereafter Sohrabuddin was killed in an encounter and also expressed his fears of being killed at the hands of the Rajasthan, Gujarat, MP, UP and   police. “He also told me that if he made any noting to the court, then his relatives would be arrested in false crimes. I assured him that I would try to save him by using the law,” the witness said. 
 
 The witness also said that on all dates that Prajapati was produced in court for the murder case he had expressed his fears of being killed. The witness also said that the magistrate heard the application on February 3, 2006, and passed an order not to subject Prajapati to any inhuman treatment. “I assured him that he will not be killed as the magistrate had also passed an order in his favour,” the witness said.
 
 
 
 A Rajasthan-based lawyer told a special trial court on Wednesday that a day after the alleged fake encounter of Sohrabuddin Shaikh, he was surprised to read news that Sohrabuddin had connections with terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba and Karachi-based gangster Sharif Khan, also known as Chhota Dawood.
 
 
