It was nearing dawn, but this popular hangout spot in Thoraipakkam was bustling with activity. While technicians and spot boys were busy getting the bistro shoot-ready, makeup artistes and costume designers were working on last-minute fittings. Occupying one of the tables was   (director), who was in conversation with the cast of his film,   —  ,   Akash and  . With dialogue sheets and notes strewn around them, the four were concentrating on the last portion of the shoot for the day. “We’ve been working three call sheets for the last few days; we have been taking a break for just about three hours a day,” says Kannan.

 
 Atharvaa’s character is an engineering graduate, who wants to do something in life. He is a football player in the film. He’s inclined towards business, but at the same time, is keen to make an impact on society. He is fighting for a cause that’s beneficial to all.
 
 
 She plays a viscom student and wants to do short films. In fact, she meets Atharvaa’s character at the lounge for the first time when she’s searching for an interesting character.
 
 
 His character has a keen sense of business, and does some major international transactions. His character is pivotal to the script
 
 On that particular day, they’d shot in three locations since morning. “We started with a scene shoot in Nazarathpettai in the morning, and then completed a chase sequence spread all over the city, later. After dinner, we’ve been at this bistro in Thoraipakkam for the introduction scene between Atharvaa and Megha. All the artistes have been very cooperative; despite working round-the-clock, the cast and crew were energetic,” he says.
 
 Talking about the day’s shoot, Kannan says, “Apart from the three of them, we got on board 100 boys and girls to form the crowd. Radhan has composed a background track, which has been penned by  . It’s an English track and we gave it to the pub’s in-house DJ to play it while the shoot is on. It’s like how Yakkai Thiri was in Mani (Ratnam) sir’s Aayitha Ezhuthu. The scene that we shot was the one in which Atharvaa and Megha’s characters meet for the first time. It’s come out very colourful and stylish.”
 
 He continues, “There are three fight scenes, two songs and a montage number in the film. We are planning to release the movie in Tamil and Telugu simultaneously, since it’s shot in both Hyderabad and Chennai, and has actors who are popular in both the industries, like Megha and Suhasini Maniratnam ma’am.” 
 
 The team is all set to resume work by the end of this month. “There’s a get-up change for Atharvaa, and we will be shooting a thrilling climax fight between him and  , who plays Sooraj. Indhuja, who is also one of the leads, has almost completed her work in the film. She has a very strong character. ”
 
 
