MUMBAI: With the mandatory Class X board exams making a comeback, the success rate for CBSE students across the country dropped to 86.7%, almost 4% lower as compared to last year. While the success rate is one of the lowest since the introduction of the school based exam in 2009, over 1.3 lakh students in the country scored above 90%. Chennai region, of which   is a part, has the largest share of the high scorers. Most city schools too recorded an increase in the number of students who joined the elite club but lower top scores. 

 Like Class XII, the Class X all India toppers (four joint toppers) also missed the perfect 500 by a single mark. A total of 21 students shared the second and third rank. The top ranks continued to elude Mumbai students. The state’s top rank was bagged by Thane student   with a score of 99.2%. The city’s top score last year was 99.6%. City ICSE students bagged the top All India ranks with the highest score of 99.4%. 
 
 From 2010 the Central Board of Secondary Education made the Class X exam optional (Board based and school based) and introduced a grading system along with the Continuous and   (CCE). The process was remodeled last year and students had to appear for a board examination on the entire year’s syllabus. The pass percentage has also dipped from 88.84%, the last time compulsory board exams were conducted.
 
 Several city schools saw a dip in top scores. For instance, At Apeejay School, Nerul the highest score dropped from 99.6% last year to 98% this year. Similarly, St Joseph High School, Panvel the top score was 98.6% as compared to 98.8% last year and 99.6% the year before. “Fewer students this year got the perfect 100 which was common until last year,” said St Joseph principal,  .
 
 Schools however recorded an increase in the number of students who scored over 90%. “Our results are must better than when we had CCE. It is because the school was not liberal with the marks as we didn’t confuse CCE with autonomy with marks,” said Avnita Bir, principal, RN Podar High School, Santacruz. At the school, 64% of students scored above 90%, which is 20% higher as compared to last year.
 
 Gopi Birla Memorial School, Walkeshwar too saw a spike in overall results. From 41 candidates who crossed the 90% mark last year, this time saw 56 students reach the last mile. Chennai region which comprises of Maharashtra had 26,670 students crossing over to the other side of 90% and 5,737 above 95%. “This year we have 40 kids who scored more than 90%. The numbers are comparable to last year but I had expected a dip in 90 percenters this year,” said Deepshika Srivastava, principal, Rajhans Vidyalaya, Andheri.
 
 Principals said the mandatory board examination had brought back the academic rigour. “Our children were prepared for the board examination. In the earlier pattern, schools would use different tools to mark students and hence the lack of uniformity. This will help students prepare better for the class XII boards,” said Mallika Subramaniam, principal, Navy Children's School, Colaba.
 
 However, the change might not be good for the academically weaker students, feel principals. Nandita Khanna, principal, Nalanda Public School, Mulund said 24 students got 90% and above this year vis a vis 17 students last year. "The challenge is to help students who are not doing so well academically, score better. Their scores have gone down as CCE helped them do better," she said.
 
 At some schools, science was a dampener. “All the DAV schools in the region have seen a higher number of 90% scorers. There was however a fewer number of students scoring a perfect score in various subjects. Science pulled down the scores for a few students,” said Jose Kurien, regional director (western) of DAV Public Schools. At Sheth Karamshi Kanji School, Mulund too science pulled down scores for the top scorers.
 
 The higher number of top scorers may mean a tough competition to city’s most sought after junior colleges. Principals however feel students can find solace in numbers. Madhu Nair, former Dean of commerce at Mumbai University said, the CBSE results will have little bearing on the junior college admissions. He reasoned it to the fact that CBSE student numbers were less and the top scorers in SSC have also been rising year on year.
 
 Not everyone has seen the number of top performers plummet. DAV international School, Kharghar saw not just saw the percentage of the top ranker fall, but even high scorers reduced. Last year, of the 162 students who sat for class X exams, 79 bagged 90% and more. This year of the 175, a total of 57 students crossed the 90% mark. Principal Seema Maindiratta reasoned the blip to "the change in pattern, no semester system and the many projects".
 
 Girls fared better with boys trailing them by 3.35%. The pass percentage for girls is 88.67% and for boys is 85.32%. Among regions, Thiruvananthapuram has the best result this year across the country, with a pass percentage of 99.6%, followed by Chennai at 97.37% and Ajmer at 91.86%.
 
