NEW DELHI: A   was   in the   of   while   a   car in  . 

 
 The man, along with his aide, signalled Navin Dagar (29), a property dealer from Madangir in south Delhi, to stop near the Samalkha traffic signal when he was returning home after meeting his uncle at Bijwasan in southwest Delhi. As Dagar sensed trouble and started accelerating, the accused fired multiple rounds at the car while chasing it. 
 
 
  
  
 
 As they reached the highway near Mahipalpur, the car driver took a sharp turn to escape the accused and the duo lost balance and the motorcycle slipped on the highway, killing one of them. The other accused is missing. 
 
 DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere said two separate FIRs had been filed for the car attack and the bike accident and the police were investigating both cases. 
 
 “After dropping my uncle at his home, I started for my home with my friends, Pravin and Dharmender. As we reached the Samalkha T-point, two men on a black motorcycle stopped next to us,” Dagar said, adding that the men pretended to know him and asked him to stop the car.
 
 Dagar was alarmed as he failed to recognise any of them and accelerated his sedan on Dwarka Link Road towards National Highway 8. The accused then took out a country-made pistol and started chasing the car.
 
 As the car started moving at more than 100km/hour on the empty road, the biker tried to overtake it and block its way while the pillion-rider kept firing, aiming at the tires and the windowpanes of the vehicle. “I was just trying to give them a slip. While one bullet pierced through a windowpane of the backseat, three hit the trunk of the car,” said Dagar.
 
 As they reached the national highway, Dagar took a sharp turn and suddenly moved towards the Mahipalpur flyover. Failing to anticipate the move, the accused biker lost his balance and the motorcycle fell on the road, killing him. 
 
 Dagar didn’t stop the car till he reached home and then informed the police.
 
 A police van then spotted a black Apache motorcycle near the flyover and found one man lying unconscious nearby. He was declared dead on arrival at Safdarjung Hospital. 
 
 A crime team inspected the crash site and found the country-made pistol, bearing a ‘Made in USA’ tag on its butt.
 
 
