Trichy: The significant changes in the assessment framework introduced by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) is making the assessment process complex for many universities, including Bharathidasan University, which is gearing up for the May- June cycle assessment. 

 Bharathidasan University, which was given an ‘A’ in the accreditation cycle held in 2012, is under pressure to score a minimum CGPA of 3.26 on a 4 point scale in order to become eligible to run distance education courses. However, not many in the university feel that the feat is achievable given the complex assessment framework. 
 
 For instance, NAAC has asked to upload details of alumni placed so far with their salary package and employers contact. While most of the institutions are not maintaining such details, the new set of norms is set to be a hard nut to crack when future funding and autonomy depends on NAAC grading. 
 
 “We would be losing significant marks if we chose to furnish incomplete data, but at the same time getting most of the details may not be possible as NAAC has been frequently revising the assessment framework,” said a senior faculty.
 
 While a revised assessment and accreditation framework was launched in July 2017, significant changes were incorporated further and a revised framework was released in January 2018. 
 
 “As per the July 2017 framework, we were asked to get details on the number of students who have passed the National Eligibility Test (NET) or State Level Eligibility Test (SLET). But now we have been asked get details on the number of students from the university who have appeared for NET and SLET with evidence, which is highly impossible,” said a head of the department.
 
 An insider from the university said that the have decided to say no to parameters not maintained but try and give the required details. “There are several parameters where detailed information has been sought but have not been maintained by the university. We may lose over lack of data owing to the new format despite being a potential university,” said a head of the department.
 
 “NAAC guidelines are being changed often which has been making the process all the more difficult. However, we have decided not to leave any room to lose marks by furnishing incomplete data,” said P Manisankar, vice-chancellor of Bharathidasan University. 
 
 All necessary steps are being taken to ensure that required data is furnished and the best score is achieved in the NAAC assessment with best cooperation from the faculty members, he added. 
 
 
