NEW DELHI: A day after   and the wife of one of them was   during a   over  , cops found that a sense of   between the   had led to the  . It was found that the siblings had fought over the issue a few day before this incident during which they had dragged each other to the road outside the house.

 
 
 
  
 During the probe, cops found that one of the siblings, Jaspal, had attacked his brother Gurjeet and stabbed him multiple times, presuming the bouncers were goons hired to avenge the earlier fight. Cops are interrogating the two PSOs — Pawan and Vicky — to establish the sequence of events, and have taken them in police custody.
 
 Pawan told cops that when Gurjeet reached the parking spot, he found Jaspal leaning against his car and chatting with his friend, Rajeev. He had honked at Jaspal twice but he had allegedly refused to move. This led to an argument between the two. Gurjeet asked Pawan, Vicky and his son to accompany him to face Jaspal.
 
 However, on seeing the four men, Jaspal believed that Gurjeet had planned an assault on him and pulled out his kirpan to threaten them. When Gurjeet stepped forward, he pounced on him and stabbed him several times on his chest and abdomen due to which he fell unconscious on the spot.
 
 Pawan told the cops that during this, he had fired one round in the air, but Jaspal tried to disarm him as well. Vicky claimed that they had tried to injure Jaspal, but his wife came in between due to which she received a bullet injury. Seeing them shoot his wife, Jaspal had attacked them as well, during which they had shot at him. Cops would, however, verify the claims with the CCTV footages from the area.
 
 Later, in a statement to the cops, Jaspal’s daughter Harpriya claimed that the men had targetted Jaspal and his wife to kill them. She alleged that Gurjeet had asked them to shoot them. Harpriya said that there was no argument and it all happened within 2 minutes. She had tried to stop them by throwing bottles from the balcony but they refused to budge.
 
 Police say that the two men would be interrogated further to establish their claims.
 
 
