NEW DELHI: Warning against the threat of   which is challenging "our way of life", Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin   on Tuesday called for an 'alliance of democracies' and strengthening of   ties to face up to the threats.

 Netanyahu opened the third edition of multilateral geo-political conference  , singing the virtues of democracy and pluralistic societies even as he stressed on the need to develop economic, military and political power to emerge as a strong nation.
 
 "Our way of life is being challenged. Most notably, the quest for modernity, the quest for innovation is being challenged by radical Islam and its offshoots from a variety of corners, and this can upset the international system... One of the ways to overcome such a challenge is to strengthen the relation between our two great democracies. The alliances of democracies is important to secure our common future," Netanyahu said.
 
 Prime Minister  , who was called a "Dear Friend of Israel" by Netanyahu, accompanied his Israeli counterpart to the event but did not speak, leaving the centre-stage for him. While Netanyahu and his wife visited Agra earlier in the day to see the Taj Mahal, Modi was in Barmer (Rajasthan) and came back to join his guest for the showcase event.
 
 "Seventy-five years ago, our people were like a wind-tossed leaf. And there I was at the forecourt of Rashtrapati Bhavan, standing up as a representative of the Jewish people," the Israeli PM said, talking of Israel's journey over the years as a nation.
 
 Describing the sources of power that got Israel to where it is today, Netanyahu said the basic lesson it has learnt is that "the weak don't survive. The strong do."
 
 "I like soft power, but hard power is better," Netanyahu said stressing on defence, security, intelligence as three critical components.
 
 The second source of power is economic growth and development. Quality economic development needs education and technology to provide value to economic growth, he said.
 
 "This can only happen if it is easier to do business and policy should be made more liberal so that companies can do what they are supposed to, but only with simpler laws and rules," he said, explaining how Israel transformed from a centrally-controlled economy into a start-up nation.
 
 He said Israel and India are trying to catch the next wave of growth whose drivers are big data, connectivity, artificial intelligence and innovation.
 
 "But underlying it all is the secret sauce of tradition and values, the greatest of those being democracy. Humanity can only be governed with freedom, hence pluralistic societies are critical," he said adding that democracies connect in a natural way.
 
 The uniqueness of the event couldn't be over emphasised. Even a decade ago, it would have been unimaginable for an Israeli PM to address an international audience in India, which occupied a very different geo-political space.
 
 Modi will receive the Netanyahus in Gujarat on Wednesday, with a reception as they go to the Sabarmati Ashram.
 
 The two PMs will inaugurate the iCreate Center at Deo Dholera village in Ahmedabad. They will visit a start-up exhibition and interact with innovators and start-up CEOs. They will also dedicate a mobile water desalination van to Suigam Taluka in Banaskantha district.
 
