While two parallel investigations into the Madurai Kamaraj University campus soliciting scam are on, the house of the key suspect has been broken into. Unidentified people have gained entry into the house of Nirmala Devi, assistant professor of Aruppukkottai Devanga arts and science college, who was arrested in connection with her phone conversation and lodged in Madurai central prison.

 The two-storey house of Devi located at Kaviyan Nagar in Aruppukkottai town was seen broken into on Wednesday. The house was locked and under the control of Nirmala Devi’s husband Saravana Pandian, who resides in a separate house along with their daughters. The neighbours who saw the doors open in the morning alerted the police. A police team led by deputy superintendent of police Dhanapal and Aruppukkottai town police inspector Annaraj rushed to the house and conducted an inquiry. They took Saravana Pandian inside the house when they inspected it. 
 
 Saravana Pandian said he had last visited the house on Tuesday between 2 pm and 3 pm to collect leftover clothes of his daughters. In the complaint lodged by him in Aruppukkottai town police station, he however stated that no item was missing from the house. Virudhunagar district superintendent M Rajarajan said they suspected the hands of habitual offenders in the incident going by the way the offenders gained entry into the house. There were no documents or valuables in the house as they were shifted to Pandian’s other house after being handed over to him, he said.
 
 Nirmala Devi was arrested by Aruppukkottai town police on April 16 after her phone conversation luring a group of girl students from Devanga Arts College to do sexual favours for higher officials in MKU went viral on social media. The case was transferred to CB-CID the next day based on orders from the director general of police. The sleuths conducted inquiry with Nirmala Devi and based on her statement searches were also conducted in her house. After searches and seizure of the required documents and materials, the house was sealed by CB-CID on April 21. It was handed over to Saravana Pandian on April 26. 
 
 Meanwhile, Nirmala Devi’s judicial custody ended on Wednesday and she was produced before court hall two in Virudhunagar court. Magistrate Thilageshwari ordered the extension of judicial custody till May 23 following which she was brought back to Madurai central prison.
 
 Apart from Nirmala Devi, two more persons – assistant professor of MKU management studies department V Murugan and former research scholar from the university, Karuppasamy — have also been arrested so far in connection with the case. They were arrested based on the statement by Nirmala Devi.
 
 
