HYDERABAD: Taking a tough stand, the Telangana Pollution Control Board (TPCB) closed four industries on the outskirts of the city for violating pollution norms. It issued the closure orders after a task force committee meeting chaired by TPCB member-secretary P Satyanarayan Reddy met here on Tuesday on action to be taken against erring industries.

 
  
  
 
 
 The units on which action was taken are:   Pyrolysis plant at   industrial estate in Sangareddy, Spar Labs Private Limited in Ali Nagar of Chetlapotharam, Viwyn Pharma in Jaikesaram in Yadadri district and   at Kottur. When contacted, Satyanarayana Reddy told TOI: “Three companies have been closed based on complaints over pollution levels and another one for non-compliance of the previous orders.”
 
 Imagix Pyrolysis was sealed based on a complaint filed by a neighbouring industry in Pashamailaram. A senior PCB official said: “In the Pyrlsosis unit, used tyres are burnt to extract oil. When we monitored the dust pollution, the particulate pollution at the chimney was 129 milligram per metre cube as against the standard 115.”
 
 The official said the ambient air quality check also did not meet the specified standards. “We also came across violations at reactors and near other equipment. We issued closure orders and it can be revoked only after compliance of pollution norms,” he added.
 
 Satyanarayana Reddy said locals complained about the smell emanating from Spar Labs, a solvent company. “So, we issued the closure order,” he said. Viwyn Pharma failed to comply with the previous orders and was on temporary revocation when it was closed down.
 
 GB Seshu Reddy of Viwny Pharma told TOI, “During the last meeting, we gave a commitment to lay cement roads in the factory to avoid spillage of solvents. However, due to lack of funds, we could not complete the work. We will fulfil all the conditions laid down by PCB and apply for revocation again.”
 
 According to PCB officials, Anand Metallics was issued closure orders due to coal and iron ore dust pollution. “The company used coal and iron ore in the furnaces. This results in pollution,” an official explained.
 
 When contacted, representatives of Anand Metallics, Spar Labs and Imagix were not available for comment.
 
