PANAJI: Not a single objection or application in the   matter has been received by the state government as of December 27, 2017, when the three-month deadline expired. 

 Both, North and   collectors, based on instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, had invited applications and objections from those who have acquired Portuguese nationality or registered their births in the country.
 
 The two collectors confirmed to TOI that they hadn’t received a single application or objection following their public notice issued in September last year.
 
 Government sources said it was expected that no applications would be received because those who opted for Portuguese citizenship were looking to migrate to Europe for better opportunities and were not looking to invite unnecessary trouble by approaching the collectors. 
 
 The issue of dual citizenship came to light after social activists began filling cases in police stations against government servants, politicians, individuals, etc, alleging that they had acquired dual citizenship. 
 
 On November 22, 2016, the ministry of home affairs empowered district collectors of North and South Goa to invite applications and objections, after due publicity, to inquire into cases of acquisition of dual citizenship. The central ministry order stated, “Inquiry shall be conducted in a fair and transparent manner, keeping in mind the provisions contained in the Citizenship Act 1955, and the Citizenship Rules 2009. After inquiry, the district collector shall make recommendations to the central government giving details of each case.”
 
 The collectors had requested the home ministry to publish the order in the state’s official gazette to make it applicable to Goa.
 
 Government statistics show that around 50,000 Goans have registered their births in   provision offered by the state’s former colonial rulers to those born before Goa’s Liberation in 1961, and to their childrenbut hold neither a Portuguese passport nor a ‘bilhete de identidade’ (ID card).
 
 Goa has debated the dual citizenship issue, as several of those who have registered their births in   politicians, police personnel and bureaucratshave also obtained a Portuguese passport or ID card, which are seen as tickets to working in Europe.
 
