In a first-of-its-kind experiment, around 3,500 saplings of wetland plants placed on top of thermocol, bamboo and gunny bag structures were floated on  , creating a ‘floating island’ of sorts, recently. Experts say, the idea behind the project is to see if the plants can help reduce pollution levels in the water body. 

 How? “We have introduced essential wetland plants like Vertiver, Calla, Bulrush, Cattail, into the lake. What is special about them is that they don’t need to draw nutrients from soil to take roots as they thrive on phosphates and nitrates, which are found aplenty in polluted lakes. Further more, they also have roots which release oxygen, so the water will have supplementary oxygen,” explains   Choudhary, head of  , the NGO which has mooted the project.
 
 At Neknampur Lake, these floating islets are spread across 2,500 sqft of the lake, which amounts to one-fourth its size. The current project is modelled around a pilot project that was undertaken last year to reduce pollution in the water body. “When we began the project at the lake last year, the phosphate levels were as high as 6.5, but after a small pilot project and aggressive cleaning, it fell to 0.5 in November, after the heavy rains last year,” says Madhulika, whose team is also planting saplings of lemongrass, tulsi and ashwagandha to avoid mosquito breeding and promote healthier air.
 
 
 
 
 Wetland plants use up the excess phosphates and nitrates in the water, and thus help curb frothing of the lakes — a phenomenon that has been seen in lakes across the city of late. Madhulika is of the opinion that this process might help urban lakes that take in a huge quantum of sewage significantly. 
 
 “Sewage has organic matter that decays and uses up the lake’s oxygen. Lakes like  , which have a huge influx of sewage, end up emanating a foul stink because their oxygen levels are too poor to break down the organic matter,” she says, adding, “Introducing floating plants in limited pockets might help improve the smell quickly, but improving the oxygen levels in the lake will require a sustained effort.” 
 
 The phosphates and nitrates found in sewage-filled lakes aid in growth of weeds like water hyacinth as well, however, these are harmful for the lakes as they grow indiscriminately and choke the lake of its oxygen. “The essential idea behind hyacinth and floating plants is the same, but hyacinth can’t be controlled and also aids mosquito breeding,” she adds.
 
 Meanwhile, the Pollution Control Board is enthusiastic about this new project, and are confident that this method can be successfully replicated on smaller lakes. “Neknampur Lake is one of the cleaner lakes in the city. The method of bio-remediation used to clean this lake, where specific aquatic plants are used to tackle particular pollutants, seems to be working. We could try this out in smaller lakes,” says  , senior scientist with TSPCB. 
 
 However he adds the process may be futile for lakes like Hussain Sagar where the influx of sewage is too high. “We need more sewage treatment plants. Without that, any expenditure on clean up may prove futile,” he adds.
 
 
 
