MUMBAI: Nariman or  , one of the spots hit by terrorists in the city on 26/11, stands not only for hate but also for love, said Israeli   Benjamin   as he joined 11-year-old   Holtzberg at the Jewish centre in Colaba on Thursday afternoon to unveil plans for a ‘Living Memorial’ for the 2008 terror attack victims.

 “What happened here represents the polar opposites of love and hate, the hatred perpetrated by terrorists, but it also expresses tremendous love. The love of your parents Gabi and Rivky to you Moshe, the love expressed by Chabad House here in Mumbai, and the love expressed by Chabad emissaries around the world,” he said. He unveiled a plaque in memory of Moshe’s parents, Chabad-Lubavitch emissaries Rabbi Gavriel and Rivka Holtzberg, who died in the terror strike.
 
 “Your parents showed love to the people and welcomed all to this house. They provided for every Jew a home. This is loving Israel, but terrorists showed hatred towards Israel,” Netanyahu said.
 
 Thursday marked Moshe’s third consecutive visit to Chabad House in three days. His nanny Sandra Samuel—who saved him on 26/11 and is accompanying him on his maiden visit to Mumbai ever since he left the city as a two-year-old —was also present.
 
 Netanyahu thanked Moshe for hosting him and taking him around his room in Chabad House. “The terrorists could not get to Moshe due to the love of his nanny Sandra,” he said. “In the past, the Jewish people have witnessed a lot of challenges but with the help of God they overcame everything. The people of Israel are living and will live forever,” he added.
 
 Moshe, in his short address in front of both his maternal and paternal grandparents and uncle (also named Moshe), invited Netanyahu for his ‘Bar Mitzvah,’ a coming-of-age ritual Jewish boys undergo when they turn 13. Terming his escape from terrorists a miracle, Moshe thanked God for saving his life. He also thanked Netanyahu for keeping his promise of bringing him to India with him.
 
 Israel Kozlovsky, the current Rabbi of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement in the city, said they were “excited and humbled” to host Moshe and his nanny. Thanking the Israeli PM for unveiling plans for the memorial, he said “it will not only be a fitting tribute to victims who fell prey to bullets of terrorists” but would “inspire the belief that every individual has the ability and responsibility to make the world a better place.”
 
 The memorial, set to open this year, will include the apartment where the Holtzbergs lived and the floor where most of the killings took place. There were six other terror victims at Chabad House in 2008. Prior to his arrival at Chabad House, Netanyahu paid homage to the memorial for 26/11 victims inside Hotel Taj. Netanyahu also met members of the Jewish community.
 
 (With inputs from agencies)
 
 
