KOCHI: With opposition to indiscriminate use of flex boards and banners mounting, the Sign Printing Industries Association (SPIA) in the state has come out with a proposal to set up units that would recycle the material after use. The association has proposed to set up shredding units in three zones, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. The material would be then transferred to multi-layer recycling units where the composites would be segregated. The plastic material obtained through the process can be reused by the industry.

 
 “If the government gives us nod to set up the facility, we can ensure removal of old flex boards within a timeframe. We have given a proposal to the state government and Suchitwa Mission in this regard,” said Alex Michael, Ernakulam district secretary, SPIA. “However, the state government is yet to call us for a discussion. We are ready to follow some of the guidelines and support recycling. In India, there are about 40 units which can do multi-layered plastic recycling. Association members have already contributed to set up a fund for starting a unit,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 As of now, there are around two lakh people directly employed in flex printing and signage units in the state. The industry provides indirect employment to another five-lakh people, he said. The state has around 1,200 printing units and the industry is estimated to generate about Rs 30 cr annually. Ernakulam district has alone 200. The larger ones employ as many as 80-100 persons. The Kerala high court in a recent order has directed the state government to involve the SPIA in discussions for addressing the issue of pollution. While the association has proposed recycling as a solution, environmental activists are against it. They call for a complete ban on PVC used in flex boards. “Government says remove PVC and instead use polyethylene but the danger is the same. Cloth is an alternative but it is costly. Since PVC is cheaper people continue to use it but there is no effort to remove them or recycle. Hence a complete ban is the only solution,” said S Sitaraman, president,  .
 
 “The PVC will not disintegrate. After some time, chlorine vapours will start coming out and it will impact the porosity of the soil thus changing the character of the bio system,” he said.
 
 TOI reporters who went around the city and suburbs found that the use of flex boards is rampant in city and suburbs. One can see them hanging precariously from buildings, trees, electric poles and telephone posts.
 
 However, polymer scientists are of the view that recycling is a better option. “Recycling depends on the size, thickness and the type of flex. To ban plastic entirely is not effective. Control of plastic usage is more effective,” said Honey John, professor and head, department of polymer science,  . The segregation of various types of plastic to recycle is an effective method to control pollution,” she said.
 
 
 
 A meeting of all political parties convened by the state government in Kochi a fortnight ago had agreed in principle not to use flex boards. At the meeting, a committee consisting of T K Jose, additional chief secretary, local-selfgovernment department, Dr M C Dattan, scientific advisor to Kerala government, R  , director, Suchitwa Mission, was formed and they discussed the environmental pollution and health hazards resulting from the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) flex banners.
 
 
