NEW DELHI: There is no major health hazard related to use of   apart from some increase in coughing and breathlessness while pollution levels of PM 2.5 and PM 10 particles rose 2-3.5 times on Diwali last year, an expert panel has informed the Supreme Court. 

 The panel, set up by the Supreme Court to study health impact due to bursting of firecrackers during Dussehra and Diwali in Delhi last year, in its report filed on Friday said though there was a spike in pollution, the levels were substantially low in comparison to 2016 due to curbs on sale of the incendiaries.
 
 “The respiratory system-related symptoms and signs were not much different during pre and post-Dussehra and Diwali. Though there was some increase in cough and breathlessness, this did not translate into any significant illness requiring immediate medical attention. Other respiratory system-related complaints were also not much different during pre and post Dussehra and Diwali,” said the panel headed by the chairman of   (CPCB).
 
 
  
 
 The report was submitted in compliance of the order passed by the   banning sale of firecrackers in NCR last year. The court appointed the committee to assess the impact of the ban saying that its order should be tested at least once in the Diwali season, while suspending licences of fire cracker sellers in NCR till October 31.
 
 The panel, also comprising representatives from National Physical Laboratory, Defence Institute of Physiology and Allied Sciences, IIT Kanpur, Fire Development and Research Centre, National Environment Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and scientists from state pollution control boards, called for further studies to assess long-term health impacts of use of fire crackers.
 
 “There was evidence of increased values of barium and strontium in urine samples of many subjects. These are some of the metals used in fire-cracker manufacturing. Increased levels in urine do reflect a probability of exposure. However, all other elements are not increased to substantiate the effect of bursting of firecrackers. It is also possible that the individuals were exposed due to bursting of firecrackers directly or indirectly in their locality,” it said.
 
 “Air quality did worsen during Diwali and symptoms of eye itching, coughing, relatively more hospital visits and high metal levels in urine do reflect adverse impact of firecracker bursting. However, it was not significant statistically,” the report said.
 
 It also pointed out that level of SO2 and NO2 remained almost within the prescribed limit during the festive season last year in Delhi.
 
 As the ban order was only on sale of crackers and not on bursting, people had celebrated Diwali with fireworks in Delhi and pollution level had increased last year too.
 
 
