MUMBAI: There is a fair bit of synchronization between   and the Indian Premier League. Both are brash, successful brands and both provide entertainment by the minute. It isn't a surprise, therefore, that, when he settles down for an exclusive interview with 
 , Sehwag, in his typical style, spells out what he wants to see in the next edition of the IPL.

 "I want to see fours and sixes whether from my team or any other team, because that is the kind of cricket I have played and that is what I want to see," says the 39-year-old, who was in the city on Friday for the 'Election se Selection' campaign of Star Sports.
 
 The retired great, now a mentor of  , is pretty clear about the players who would be in demand in the IPL auction, cheduled in Bangalore on January 27 & 28. "Ben Stokes,   and Mitchell Starc are the international players everyone wants. I won't be surprised if Stokes goes for around $1.5 million. I expect the capped India players to fetch around Rs10-12cr too. Among the uncapped players,   and   would be in demand," he predicts.
 
 Speaking about the 'wishlist' of his own franchise, he says: "I think the fans would want Punjab stars like Yuvraj and   in the Kings XI team," he says. He doesn't agree with critics who feel that Yuvraj is now past his best. "He's not in the Indian team, but Yuvraj is still an amazing player. His talent is intact. Even a current India player can lose form. I don't think we'll get a player like him again. If his form his good, he's a match-winner."
 
 Can he still make a comeback into the Indian team? "That's up to the selectors. If he performs in domestic cricket, or passes (yoyo), then why not? If   can make a comeback at 36, why not Yuvi," Viru' fires back.
 
 Explaining why KXIP retained only one player, India leftarm spinner Axar Patel, Sehwag says: "We can use the 'Right to Match' card to retain   and David Miller. We felt that if Axar goes into the auction, we may have to pay much more to buy him, since he's an India all-rounder." Elaborating his faith in the tall left-arm spinner, Sehwag says: "When we bought him, he was an uncapped player. Now he's such a capable player, that he's overtaken   to be a part of the Indian One-day and T20 sides."
 
 Does he think that Kings XI Punjab is a comparatively 'smaller' team, and at a disadvantage because the other sides get to retain top Indian players? "There isn't any small team in the IPL, the purse size (Rs 80 cr) stays the same for all and everyone will try to spend their entire purse. In fact, in this year's auction, the best part is that we and Rajasthan Royals have the most amount of money to spend," he says, before addressing the perception.
 
 "However, we're called a 'small' team because we don't have 'big' players. In 2014, we had a team with not too many star players, but we reached the final using a limited purse. Our aim this time is to spend money to buy many Indian players," he explains.
 
