NAWANSHAHR: Almost a decade after the ‘Nawanshahr model’ to check female foeticide hit the headlines, the town is now leading the way in solid waste management. Without burdening the state exchequer, the local residents have come together to keep the town clean.

 The complete segregation of bio-degradable and non-bio-degradable waste, which has not even started in most parts of the state, has already been achieved and the   dump of the town—which had led to several protests in the past by the residents of the neighbouring locality—is now a stink free place. Further, cattle dung is now being used as catalyst to manage biodegradable waste.
 
 As many as 100 pits have been constructed for managing biodegradable waste where layers of such waste are covered with alternate layers of cattle dung. The level of these pits-- initially filled to the brim -- are now decomposing and carbon dioxide is being let out using perforated plastic pipes.
 
 There are 32 specially-designed cycle rickshaws and 10 motorcycle-rickshaws ply in town collecting degradable and non-degradable waste in separate compartments. Nawanshahr municipal committee president Lalit Mohan Pathak, who is spearheading the cleanliness drive, personally supervises solid waste management at micro-level. He has fundraised for these rickshaws using sponsorship from local residents and business people. “We are constructing 50 more pits and each pit takes 10 tons of green waste,” he said.
 
 “It is satisfying to see that things have improved a lot in the last couple of months and our financial contribution to the project has become part of the mission,” said  , a local businessman who donated five cycle-rickshaws.
 
 “With MC president and councillors involving people in the project through contributions, awareness regarding segregation of waste is also increasing among the people,” said Rajwant Singh, a local resident.
 
 “We have got gloves, uniforms sponsored from Rotary Club while 150 pairs of green and blue waste bins have been sponsored by the local co-operative sugar mill,” the MC chief said.
 
 Nawanshahr Sewa Society, specially set up to manage the waste management project, is responsible for collecting and spending funds. “The Society collects monthly charges from households and commercial establishments according to the quantum of waste they produce and these collections are being used to meet expenses and pay salaries to the 55 workers engaged by  ,” Pathak said.
 
 Apart from the pits at the dumping site, pits for managing bio-degradable waste have also been made in all schools, colleges and the vegetable market. “We did not spend a penny from municipal funds and got these sponsored,” Pathak said.
 
 “Earlier the vegetable market used to stink a lot but now after these pits have been made and waste is being managed properly, conditions have improved,” said  , who has his vend in the vegetable market.
 
 The feedback being given by the workers engaged in waste collection is also interesting. “The poor households are more cooperative as they give segregated waste while we still face issues from well-off households who pack everything in one carry bag and then we segregate. Almost 70% households have improved in terms of waste segregation,” said  , a worker.
 
 “Waste is once again segregated after bringing it to the dump and we ensure that all   elements are removed before making a layer of the green waste,” said Rajinder Khosla, who supervises the work at the pits.
 
 “We have also got removed over 500 trolley-loads of waste from different plots in the town,” said the MC president.
 
 “Nawanshahr has taken the lead in implementing our project and the way things have been done it has become a model and now this would be replicated in each and every town,” said Ajoy K Sharma, CEO of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company, a state-run body. “Now we are working on a de-centralized plan to manage waste and local bodies’ minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has also pushed the idea,” he said.
 
 
