Stand-up comedy acts in the city seems to have undergone a makeover in namma Coimbatore. Gone are the days when it was tough to find venues to perform. Today, stand up shows have become one of the major pastimes in the city. On  , we ask stand-up comedians who have performed in the city about their experience and their journey in the city so far…

 Stand-up Comedian   who has performed quite a few times in the city says, “I have done 3-4 shows in Coimbatore and the reception has been awesome. The good part now is that, the local comedians have come together and started open mics which is a great initiative. Having a comedy scene is good for the city. Once there are more comedians in the city, it will attract many more comedians from outside and benefit the whole scene. If this continues, it is going to be a treat for Coimbatore residents in the future.”
 
 Theatre person, actor and stand-up comedian   had said after one of his performances in the city, “Youngsters think it is the coolest thing to do.   is constantly breaking mind sets and questioning norms. It is a disruptive art form; youngsters love it because we say things that nobody else says. It is a healthy thing. At the same time, all of this can’t go digital, because when you go digital you will end up making few people angry as they won’t understand the context of the jokes. This is not meant for them in the first place. It makes a young person ask uncomfortable questions early on in life, which is good.”
 
 B Shanjay, who has organised open mics for local comedians in the city, shares, “When I started this space (641 Community), a lot of other organisations were bringing comedians from other cities. My priority was to groom local talent. I wanted to give the local comedians a platform to perform. I also don’t want to hide the fact that there were minimum entries when I launched open mics, but with time, it has gradually gone up. I started open mics for all talents (mime, mimicry, singing and dancing…). I then decided to have exclusive shows for all the events. The last open mic for stand-up comedy was super successful. Today, 7 out of 10 people know what stand-up comedy is, which wasn’t the case earlier. I hope the aspiring local stand-up comedians make use of such platforms.”
 
 Comedian   says that the city is a growing market for stand-up comedy. “In my last three shows in the city, people have been coming up and asking me how to start performing and how to go about pursuing it as a career. And, that is a great sign for any city, because the local talent plays a huge role in influencing the market and getting more people to perform. I also can see a lot of comedians from Mumbai and other north Indian cities performing in Coimbatore. Earlier, it was predominantly comedians from Chennai who were performing. The local audiences have also surprised me with their reception of jokes. Since it is a smaller city compared to metros, we come up with a notion that it will be more conservative. But, they have been open to all kinds of jokes.”
 
 Alka Nichani, member of Coimbatore   says, “I think we can take some credit for having brought stand-up comedy to Coimbatore. It has evolved quite a lot over time. We have regular shows happening in the city. It is the need of the hour too. Stress levels have increased and stand-up comedy makes you laugh at yourself. It still has a long way to go. We would also like to promote local talents from the city which will help give the comedy scene a fillip.”
 
 (The above picture is from a show by the Comedy Processing Unit)
 
 
