MUMBAI: A man headed for a bar with his friends died in an alleged instance of road rage at   (east) early on Monday, prompting the arrest of two scooterists for murder. 

  (53), the deceased, was at the Dahisar police station for nearly half an hour before his death. His post-mortem report is awaited and will be a crucial document in the case as it will establish the exact cause of Shetty's death and provide clues to investigators. 
 
  
  
 Shetty was unmarried and lived with his sister and her family in   (east). He ran a paan-beedi shop in   (west). His family said he was fit and used to jog at the national park. On Sunday afternoon,   joined his group of jogger friends at a banquet hall in the western suburbs for a get-together. The group watched an IPL match on a large screen, had dinner and stayed together till late in the night. 
 
 After 11pm, a few of them decided to head for a bar for a drink. Shetty, a teetotaler according to his family, decided to accompany his friends. They hailed two autorickshaws and were moving on the northbound arm of the Western Express Highway. Shetty and two of his friends were in the second auto. They crossed the Dahisar check naka when a scooter grazed their auto around 12.30am. Both vehicles halted. Two men, in their early twenties, were on the scooter. Both groups had an argument, which ended in a scuffle. 
 
 According to the police, Shetty was manhandled by the scooterists. A patrolling police van intervened and took everyone to the Dahisar police station, where arguments continued. Shetty, who was there for nearly half an hour and had told the police he wasn’t feeling well, threw up and collapsed. 
 
 The police administered CPR and took him to Ambedkar Hospital, Kandivli, where he was pronounced dead before admission. “My uncle's friends reached our society in the early hours on Monday. As the watchman wouldn’t let them upstairs, they asked him to convey a message to us that my uncle was no more. We were stunned,” said Shetty's nephew  , who works as an accountant with a star hotel. “We rushed to Ambedkar Hospital. My uncle had sustained a minor injury on his forehead, but there were no other injuries on his body. We waited for a long time, but the body wasn't handed to us even by evening. 
 
 Doctors at the Borivli post-mortem centre didn’t conduct his autopsy after a discussion with the police. My uncle's body was then sent to JJ Hospital's post-mortem centre. An autopsy was conducted at night.” Smit said he went to the police station and met the auto driver, who told him there was only a verbal argument and no scuffle. Based on eyewitness accounts, the police arrested the scooterists: Sahil Arora (20; a real estate broker) and Bhushan Bansode (21; a garment salesman), both   residents.
