Ludhiana: The careless attitude of   officials is solely responsible for the civic body’s poor financial condition. This was revealed through the Right to Information (RTI) Act, as civic officials did not recover pending dues from commercial complexes even after several years, except when the matter came to the light of the Punjab and Haryana high court. According to information revealed on Monday, MC is yet to recover Rs 6.83 crore in the form of assessment fee from these commercial complexes.

 City-based RTI activist Rohit   had filed a complaint, and a contempt petition in HC against 86 commercial complexes, where even parking spaces in the basement were being utilized for commercial purposes. Though MC had conducted a sealing exercise, they regularized 34 complexes, saying they were constructed before 1997. Even if the complexes were constructed before 1997, MC should have recovered the assessed amount from them before regularization. But till date, MC has not served notices to the complexes.   inquired about it in the RTI query, and MC officials admitted that they had yet to recover the dues from them.
 
 Sabharwal said if officials had paid attention, they could have recovered the amount several years ago, but even now, they were assessing the challans when he filed a contempt petition in the HC. He added that MC officials had submitted an affidavit in the HC that these complexes could be regularized after payment of a fee (called compounding), as they were constructed before 1997. Meanwhile, MC commissioner   feigned ignorance about the recovery status, and said he would get the status checked from the staff concerned, and if recovery had not yet started, he would ask them to do it as soon as possible.
 
 Notably, Sabharwal had initially filed a writ petition in HC against the commercial complexes for not providing parking in the basement, but when MC officials did not take action, then he filed a contempt petition. Last summer, the HC had even summoned the then principal secretary of Local Bodies, Satish Chandra, who had then formed committees, which conducted a survey of 86 such complexes in the city. These committees too admitted that commercial complexes and many establishments were using their basements for purposes other than parking, and MC had sealed these buildings.
 
 
