By: Anindita Acharya

 CHANDIGARH: The 2014 fire that brought down the three-storeyed National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology in Sector 17 is still fresh in the mind of Anil Kamboj. The fireman lost two colleagues in the operation. The loss of nine fire-fighters in Ludhiana’s Suffian Chowk inferno was a second blow to him. But he never lets these haunting images into his mind when he fights blazes.
 
 Sub fire officer Lal Bahadur Gautam of the UT fire brigade headquarters in Sector 17 agrees that it’s a risky profession. But he has no regrets. “My father was a fire officer. I knew I would follow in his footsteps,” he said, and smiled.   Bhupinder Singh also picked up his father’s profession and he doesn’t mind being unable to celebrate   with family. He rather seeks posting at temporary fire stations near fire-prone markets during the festival.
 
 The 140-odd fire-fighters of Chandigarh put their lives   to save the others, yet none of them claim to have complaints. “We keep an ear out for the emergency alarm. When it goes off, it takes us a mere 30 seconds to turn on the engines and move out,” said sub fire officer Surjit Singh of the Sector 17 fire station. The department has also procured seven motorcycles to be able to enter narrow lanes where a fire truck can’t go.
 
 
 
 
 It has been years since Bhupinder celebrated Diwali or Dussehra with family but he is happy to stay at the Sector-38 fire station during those days, light diyas there, and enjoy the festivals with colleagues. “We must compromise our happiness to light up the life of somebody else,” he said. 
 
 For the UT fire-fighters, Diwali is a time of high alert. It’s not that they dislike the festival of lights, but it’s time for them to organise seminars, talk shows, and visits to the schools and markets to make an appeal for caution while bursting crackers. Fire incidents increase in the Diwali season. M L Sharma, fire officer of the Chandigarh fire and emergency services, said: “It gives immense relief to complete our operation and find there’s no casualty or injury. This is more important to us than celebrating festivals.”
 
 
 
 
 The families of these fire-fighters have adjusted to their erratic schedule and the risky nature of their job. ML Sharma says: “Gradually, the families of our fire-fighters have understood that these men have joined an emergency service, where every minute counts. “Initially in our job, our families worry a lot and call us every few hours. Now, they don’t panic when we step out for an operation. They have become cooperative. We remember to put on our fire-proximity suit during the operation,” said the station fire officer.
 
 
 
 
 The fire officials of Chandigarh conduct regular seminars to teach public about the sources of fires and how to fight those. In their last round of visits to the UT schools, they demonstrated fire-extinguishing operation to the students. The fire and emergency services department of municipal corporation has ordered all fire stations to audit all the commercial, industrial, and institutional buildings of the city. Every summer, fire incidents increase and firemen have to hold even more training sessions about fire awareness and safety.
 
 “Forest fires are common in summer,” sub fire officer Surjit Singh said. “Human negligence, careless smoking especially, is responsible for these fires. We also visit government buildings and alert the people working in there about loose wires.”
 
 
 
 For the firemen, receiving hoax calls is as common as having lunch. The PCR (police control room) has the same experience with bomb alerts. Every time the message flashes on the wireless, the fire brigade as well is called into the defusing operation. “The fire department has to respond to every fake call and visit the spot,” sub fire officer LB Gautam of Kansal said. “It’s part of our job. We can’t ignore any call. If it puts our lives at risk, so be it.”
 
 
 
