HYDERABAD: The rapidly increasing number of eateries/ commercial establishments in the city, many of which have no parking facility, have become the primary cause for traffic menace, said TOI readers who wrote in, in large numbers, in response to the newspaper’s ongoing ‘Crawling Hyderabad’ campaign.

 This, they said, was followed by the problem of bad roads and lack of a lane system.
 
 
  
 
 “Hotels, sweets shops, kirana stores, supermarkets, hospitals and umpteen number of business shops on the south and north side of the road at Indiranagar draws thousands of customers during peak hours. None of these establishments have their own parking place and this in turn results in traffic moving at a snail’s pace,” wrote  , a senior citizen from the area. He suggested the civic authorities build a foot-over bridge at Indiranagar and shift both the RTC bus bays towards the east (towards   flyover) to reduce traffic blockage.
 
 Another commuter S Somanadha, from   wrote: “A lot of banks are located on the main road and none of them have designated parking lots. Because of this, commuters have to suffer as they have to make their way from between parked vehicles. The same applies to areas that house schools; a major part of the road is blocked by autos. The local administration should issue specific guidelines to ensure free flow of traffic.”
 
 Readers also suggested that cops enforce a lane system for better movement of vehicles. “Police should have designated lanes for buses/ lorries, two/three wheelers and light motor vehicles with minimum three feet divider to avoid an accident,” A M Dayal, a resident of  , suggested.
 
 That haphazard parking is serious concern is evident from the records of   too. In 2017, 38.8 lakh vehicles were booked under various offences, of which 1.7 lakh offences were related to parking on service roads, 2.54 lakh for parking on main carriageway and 12,161 for stopping on the carriageway.
 
 “Inadequate parking and non-availability of parking, both in residential and commercial establishments, is a major problem in Hyderabad as vehicles belonging to these establishments are parked on either side of the road blocking the free flow of tree.
 
