Mumbai: The N M Joshi Marg police, which is probing the December 29 fire that claimed 14 lives, on Monday arrested Ramesh Gowani,   of   Ltd. Gowani has been booked for   not amounting to murder. 

 This is the 12th arrest in the fire case and the second FIR Gowani has been named in. He was earlier booked in an MRTP case by N M Joshi Marg police after the deadly fire.
 
 Gowani’s arrest comes barely four days after civic chief Ajoy Mehta, in his probe report on the fire to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, recommended criminal action against the mill owner. Late on Saturday night, a mill director, Ravi Bhandari, was arrested along with local fire station officer Rajendra Patil and Utkarsh Pandey, who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro, which were gutted. The trio was called for questioning and booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, a charge that carries a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, and then arrested.
 
 “We have arrested Gowani and are investigating the case,” said S Jayakumar, additional commissioner of police (central region). Earlier this month, Gowani had been summoned in the MRTP case and his statement was recorded. He will be produced before the Bhoiwada court on Tuesday.
 
 Patil had given a fire NOC to 1Above resto-bar barely a week before the fire, by attaching backdated photographs showing the terrace where the two resto-bars (the other being Mojo’s, where the fire originated) stood was open. The terrace, in fact, had been completely covered, the panel probing the fire that killed 14 found on inspection of the premises.
 
 Mehta in his report pointed out that the owner of the premises, which is Kamala Mills Ltd, of which Gowani and Bhandari are directors, had unauthorizedly given the terrace to 1Above and Mojo’s for use, and with them not taking fire safety precautions, were equally responsible for the fire and death of people.
 
 While the owner of the premises is Kamala Mills Ltd (of which Gowani and Bhandari are directors), they had allotted the premises to Royal Traders, of which Gowani is a partner. They gave their premises on leave and licence to the two restaurants gutted.
 
 The report also stated that the owner of Kamala Mills was aware that the open terrace area could not be used for such activities but had still entered into such an agreement. This is one of the principal reasons why the report proposed criminal action against the owner of Kamala Mills among several others.
 
 The report also pointed to how Gowani had his office on the third floor of Trade House Building, site of the fire, so he could not escape responsibility by stating that he was not aware about the violations in the restaurants.
 
 
