Nagpur: After making a good start by launching full-fledged passenger train operations from home platform (platform 8) at the east side, the Nagpur   has done a U-turn by changing platforms of trains.

 In a hurriedly issued press release on Saturday, the Central Railway said five pairs of mail/express trains arriving and departing from home platform will now use platforms numbers 3, 4 & 5 like earlier. The railway did not specify any reasons why the decision was taken but said it was for time being.
 
 The decision to utilize home platform fully was taken on January 1 by starting 16 trains. This was done after completion of 6.5km doubling between   wherein an additional path was available.
 
 Though the train operations were started from home platform with good intentions by divisional railway manager (DRM) Brijesh Kumar Gupta, TOI, after taking an on spot review by talking to passengers, had reported that the platform lacked several basic amenities like shed, food and waiting hall. Besides, security and traffic congestion owing to   work outside were bigger problems.
 
 According to railway sources, one of the reasons for U-turn was handling of so many trains from home platform affecting punctuality.
 
 “There was a lot of cross movement. The trains, which used to take 14 minutes from other platforms to pass through  , took over 20 minutes from home platform. This happened despite trains landing directly on home platform avoiding diamond crossing. Had the trains came through diamond crossing, it would have taken 25 minutes to pass through Kalamna,” top officials said.
 
 Another reason, railway officials said, was that apart from passenger train punctuality, good trains were also hit due to cross movement. All the trains that were shifted to home platform were South East Central Railway (SECR) trains and SECR officials have written to the Central Railway about it.
 
 When contacted, SECR officials said, “Some trains can certainly be operated from home platform with systematic planning.” 
 
 
