CHANDIGARH: The   (PUCSC) secretary Vani   on Monday launched   from girls’ hostel number 1. The   of the initiative is a feedback form that has been introduced to take the view of varsity women on hostel timings this time .

 “Are you comfortable with the current hostel rules pertaining to entry/exit timings and fine which is imposed on girls for being late,” asked the council secretary to a hosteller.
 
 “Of course not. Why is there curfew timings for girls’ hostels when boys’ have no such restrictions,” came a stern reply from Gagan, a hosteller.
 
 “The recently-concluded fest was my first in department. It was obvious that I were to be late considering that the programme had numerous activities. I was imposed a fine of Rs 250 since I arrived after the stipulated timings. My male counterparts also headed to hostels at the same time. However, they told me that they were not fined for being late. I am aghast. I realized that this is how gender-based discrimination feels like,” said a hosteller pursuing engineering at  , on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Another hosteller, Vaishali, who has been residing in the hostel since last one year, said, “We want freedom. There should be no curfew timings. We want the authorities to allocate proper security measures for safety of girls before that. Boys roam around the campus in their swanky cars with high pitched music, pass comment to girls during the evening. A step to oust such students from the campus would be welcomed so that we can enjoy our freedom.”
 
 “During the door-to-door campaign, female hostellers may not have the liberty to express their dissent towards these discriminatory timings fearing the hostel authorities. That is the reason, we have come up with the feedback forms,” said Sood.
 
 The feedback contains five questions regarding the hostel timings. “The hostellers can decide for themselves right from wrong. I have got these feedback forms signed by the students for this reason. The campaign will end with a march in   in which all the feedback forms will be submitted to the vice-chancellor of the university,” added Sood.
 
 
