Rajamma and her husband Thomas from Kannur didn’t entertain the idea of having a floral garden at their house. 

 They believed that growing flowers was a waste of time that would rather be wisely spent on cash crops. However, a visit to a relative’s house in Wayanad and a family outing to the International Fruit and Flori Fest:  , last year, had a marked change in their attitudes.
 
 The duo now grows different varieties of orchids and other ornamental flowers apart from their regular farming crops. “We are traditional farmers and Poopoli gave us a new perspective on farming. We had no clue on vertical gardening or modern day tools and techniques used in agriculture. We were unaware that horticulture has a branch called floriculture which focuses exclusively on flower farming,” says Rajamma, adding that her house and surroundings have become lively and colourful now. Thomas adds that they are now even thinking of expanding their venture.
 
 The couple made sure to visit the fest this year as well, where the major highlight was the 28 models of vertical gardens.
 The latest edition of the agriculture festival, jointly organised by Kerala Agricultural University and the Regional Agriculture Research Station, Amabalavayal, Wayanad, that concluded on January 18 was spread across 12 acres. It showcased wide varieties of garden plants, ornamental plants, flowering plants and agricultural equipment.
 
 Businessman Sajan Varghese, from Kochi, was also inspired by the possibilities of vertical gardens that were on display.
 “I am interested in farming but the limited space in my apartment makes it tough to practise it. That’s where vertical gardens fit in. At the festival, I found out that we can also grow vegetables, and not just flowers,” he says.
 
 The organisers at the Poopoli make people aware of the benefits of floriculture, he says, adding that he got to know that the vertical gardens — which is a low-cost practice — helps eliminate atmospheric pollution and create carbon neutral situation.
 This year’s festival also had a rose garden with 1,650 varieties, a dahlia garden spread across 3.5 acres with more than 5,000 varieties, gladiolus plants on 2 acres of land, around 10,000 varieties of cactus, imported flowering and ornamental plants from various parts of the world. 
 It also offered farmers from different parts of the State, a platform to showcase their best yield and their creativity. A model paddy field on 50 cents of land that had 101 types of rice including Pakistan Basmati, kirvana, sugandamathi, Haryana Basmati, Japan Violet and Wayanadan rice, was also showcased to make the visitors aware of the need to conserve paddy fields and also the methods of cultivation.
 
 Dr P Rajendran, Vice Chancellor, Kerala Agricultural University and the director of Poopoli, finds the remarkable response to the fest a testimonial that more people are showing interest in floriculture. “The 2013-14 edition was experimental as we wanted farmers to know the importance of floriculture. Based on our climate and infrastructure, it can flourish. Within a year, not just the people but also the plants started responding to it. The people have realised that floriculture can offer them a regular income and can give financial stability to farmers. Agriculture does not just mean cultivation of paddy and vegetables, one should also utilise the opportunities that modern agriculture offer,” he says.
 Stressing that crop diversification must be practised, he says, “If planned well, floriculture can even bring financial stability to homemakers as it can be practised in small spaces. We are planning to create flori villages across the State and offer them facilities to export the products,” he says.
 
 
 
 
