AGRA: Barely hours after   (ASI) banned, on a trial basis, the entry of visitors into the main crypt of   in an attempt at regulating visitor flow, Union minister for tourism,  , ordered the revoking of the ban following “complaints” from visitors.

 The ban on entry into the main crypt, which has replicas of the graves of Shahjahan and  , came into effect on Sunday morning but by 3:30 pm it had been revoked after the minister intervened. The ban was revoked apparently after numerous complaints from tourists, particularly foreigners, who were miffed at the sudden prohibition, despite having paid full tickets for visiting the monument, including the crypt.
 
 Confirming that the crypt was opened on the minister’s orders, superintending archaeologist Bhuvan Vikram Singh said that as things were going smoothly after the entrance into the main crypt was shut, the area was later opened for visitors. 
 
 According to sources, though the order was to allow the entry of only foreign tourists into the main crypt, it could have become a complicated matter, as local visitors would have objected to it.
 
 CISF officials told TOI any discrimination in the matter could have created a hue and cry and it would have been difficult to handle, besides sending a wrong message. So all visitors were allowed to see the crypt as well. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Agra district magistrate Gaurav Dayal said that ASI director-general and culture secretary of the Union government would visit Agra on Monday to decide on the future course of action. 
 
 According to figures given by ASI officials, over 38,000 people visited Taj Mahal on Sunday including 34,422 Indians, 3,468 foreigners and 593 from SAARC countries.
 
 On January 2, the culture secretary has called a meeting of all officers in Delhi to discuss and resolve the issues and take a final decision on various recommendations regarding the monument complex. Vice president,   (ADA), senior superintendent of police, deputy director, tourism in Agra and CISF commandant along with the DM will be present at the meeting.
 
