VADODARA: Chhota Udepur district administration has banned boating activities around the ancient Hanfeshwar temple at   in Kawant taluka. 
 
 
 As water level in the catchment area of   dam receded, the ancient temple surfaced out of the water in March this year. Many people started visiting the temple, which had remained submerged for around two decades, through boats.
 
 As the boating increased, the district collector on June 1 instructed the Kawant mamlatdar to issue orders to the sarpanch to stop the activities considering human safety.
 
 “The boat owners have been operating without safety precautions and the water is also deep over there. In case any boat capsizing incident takes place it will be difficult to conduct rescue operation with safety measures therefore taking human safety into consideration we have banned boating activities there,” said Sujal Mayatra, district collector.
 
 He added that the mamlatdar will also be visiting the area to oversee implementation of orders. However, the boating activities continued till Sunday evening. A city-based advocate   who visited the temple on Sunday with his family said that the boats are being operated there without any safety precuations. “I had asked for a life jacket from the boat owner, but he said that he does not have any. The locals told me that after the boating acitivity began, many food stalls started on the banks of the Narmada. In fact, some locals also sell country-made liquor over there,” said Parmar. He added that as the water level has decreased vehicles are now able to go right up to the bank of the river which was once submerged. 
 
 The temple had started emerging out of water in March this year. As the water level receded, after the dome of the temple, the second floor and first floor of the temple started becoming visible, which led to many locals thronging the temple in boats. The locals used to stand on the narrow balconies of the temple to enter the temple premises since they could not enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple. It takes around 25 minutes to reach till the ancient temple by boat from the banks of the river where the new temple exists now.
 
 Around 20 years back when the temple had come under the catchment area of the dam, villagers had shifted the idol to a newly constructed temple to a nearby village.
 
 
