BENGALURU: Chinnagiri Doddi village, 3km from Mandya town, wears a deserted look. More than 10 days after two infants died allegedly due to the adverse effects of pentavalent vaccine, villagers are still reeling in shock.

 While two-month-old Bhuvan died on February 9, Preetham, over two months old, died on February 10. Both had undergone pentavalent and  . “Bhuvan was administered the vaccine around 11.20am on February 8. He stopped drinking milk after he was brought home. He did not have any fever but didn’t seem normal. We took him to a hospital the same night and he was declared dead,” said Mahesh, Bhuvan’s uncle.
 
 
 
  
 
 The last rites were done the next day. But following news of the death of another infant from the village, Bhuvan’s mortal remains were exhumed and a postmortem was done. The deaths sparked off protests in front of the   and senior officers from the health and family welfare department rushed to Mandya. Mandya then witnessed the death of baby girl   on February 12. However, the health and family welfare department said her death had nothing to do with administration of the vaccine and she died of severe pneumonia. “Preetham died due to sepsis. The cause of Bhuvan’s death is not yet known and the reports are awaited from Kasauli,” said the health department.
 
 Pentavalent vaccine is a good vaccine known for all the wrong reasons since it was rolled out in India in 2011. Pentavalent provides protection to newborns from five life-threatening diseases such as diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), tetanus, hepatitis B and influenza B. The vaccine, which contains five different vaccines in a single vial, is part of Universal Immunisation Programme. It is administered in three doses to the newborn at 6, 10 and 14 weeks.
 
 “It is unfair to attribute the cause of death to the vaccine till causality assessment of the adverse event following immunization (AEFI) is done,” says Dr Srinivas Kasi, Bengaluru-based paediatrician, who says vaccines must be given to healthy children. “The adverse effects of vaccines are seen now. Some vaccines administrated now are for diseases not seen in the recent past. A very high degree of safety is expected from vaccines. Extensive reviews are done at every stage of development resulting in a product which is definitely safe,” he says.
 
  recalls the death of babies in Tamil Nadu after they were administered the measles vaccine. “Investigation revealed that the multidose vaccines were not maintained to the required hygiene levels. We don’t know what led to the deaths in Mandya,” he said, adding, “We need to ask questions such as ‘Were the children sick when they were given the vaccine?’ and ‘Was there any error in administering the vaccine?’”
 
 According to Dr S M Prasad, professor of paediatrics, Dr B R  , there are logistics issues with the government immunisation programme. “The government runs immunization programmes once a week, on Thursdays, in rural community health centres. It should be done every day so that parents do not hurry up once a week for the most important vaccination. Vaccine should not be given to sick children,” says Dr Prasad.
 
 The vaccine must be maintained between 2 degrees to 8 degrees centigrade and the cold chain should not break at any time, he added.
 
