ALAPPUZHA : With bypoll just weeks away, all three fronts—LDF, UDF and NDA—are engaged in a high-pitched campaign battle to win over voters. Electioneering will reach fever pitch when top leaders of all three fronts hit the campaign trail here. Already, state leaders of LDF, UDF and NDA are actively seeking votes for their candidates in the constituency and attending door-to-door meetings.

 
 
 The LDF campaign for Saji Cherian is led by state ministers, while UDF’s campaigning for D Vijayakumar is led by former chief minister Oommen Chandy and  , who are constantly visiting  . Union minister Alphons Kannanthanam, MP Suresh Gopi and   state president Kummanam Rajasekharan are spearheading the campaign for NDA candidate P S Sreedharan Pillai.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who will arrive in Chengannur on May 23, will lead the campaign for Cherian till May 25 and address voters at 11 centres. Administrative reforms commission chairman V S Achuthanandan will seek votes for Cherian on May 20 and 21 and   politburo member Brinda Karat will address a women assembly.
 
 Almost all LDF ministers have addressed the voters of Chengannur. For LDF, victory is a must as the poll result will be an assessment of the government’s performance.
 
  leader AA Shukkoor expressed confidence that Vijayakumar will win the bypoll by a margin of 10,000 votes. Though Chengannur favoured Congress in 2006 and 2011, it chose CPM’s KK Ramachandran Nair in 2016. He defeated UDF candidate PC Vishnunath by a margin of 7,983 votes.
 
 But, Shukkoor added that Vijayakumar is very popular and since he is a people-friendly candidate, he stands a chance to win. Senior Congress leader AK Antony will campaign for Vijaykumar in Chengannur on May 22 and 23., Chief of Mahila Congress Sushmita Dev will arrive in Chengannur on May 20 for campaigning.
 
 NDA is trying to bring Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb to campaign for Pillai and BJP district president K Soman said that they have almost confirmed his visit. Union defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman too is expected to arrive here for campaigning.
 
 Suresh Gopi, who campaigned for NDA many times in Chengannur, will be there in the constituency on May 19, 20,21 and 22.
 
