If the pollution allegedly caused by the Sterlite copper smelter plant was behind the agitation that led to the death of 13 people in police firing, nowhere is it palpable than in the fishing hamlets like Terespuram and Mini-Sagayapuram. The fishing community firmly believes that it is the effluent that industries on the coast lets out into the sea that has caused depletion of fish in the  .

 It was this conviction that translated into an aversion for the Sterlite copper smelter and drew hundreds of them to the protests against the plant. Though not supported by scientific results, many fisherfolk who resided in villages near the Sterlite plant believed that it was the prime polluter of the adjoining sea which hit their livelihood.
 
 I Pradeep, 35, of   is one among the many fishermen who have migrated to greener pastures since fishing of late has not been bringing them much returns. "We used to venture into the sea at night and return in the morning with loads of catch but that was years ago. In recent years, fish stocks have declined a lot due to the presence of chemical factories and other heavy industries along the coastline,"   said. Those residing in villages near the Sterlite factory, including   and  , claimed that their liveability was under threat. They seem to have no doubt that the fall in fish catch was due to the smelter.
 
 While Pradeep discontinued his fishing venture and preferred to pursue menial jobs for daily wages, many other fishermen still clung on to their traditional occupation. "The fall in fish wealth is evident in our nets and 99 per cent of the fishermen feel the same way. Though all chemical factories are polluting the sea, we believe Sterlite inflicts the major damage to various fish varieties," E Amalan, a fisherman from   said.
 
 However, the allegations of fishermen are not supported by experts. "Without any analysis and proper study, we cannot draw conclusions over these claims. A detailed study on effluent water, if any, let out by the factories into the sea is needed," a source in   said. Experts also opined that the effluent let into the sea may not be the only reason for the depleting fish wealth. Other factors such as destructive and unethical fishing practices damaging the habitat of fishes including juvenile fish also contributed to the dwindling catch.
 
 
