Bengaluru: For the nearly 4,00,000 people from northeastern states living in Bengaluru, the   run by   is sometimes the only avenue they can turn to. However, the trust is finding it difficult to sustain the helpline due to lack of donations and organized funding.

 The support group was formed in August 2012 during the infamous exodus that sent thousands from the community, besides those with roots in Nepal and Tibet, fleeing to their native places. It established itself as a trust in 2014. 
 
 The helpline is accessible on two numbers — 9901934371 and 9741285744 — and receives calls round-the-clock. Students, jobseekers and workers among others seek assistance . It receives about 10 calls per week on an average. Since everyone working for Northeast Solidarity is a volunteer, co-ordination is crucial.
 
 “We have divided the experiences faced by people into 18 categories, ranging from robbery to intimidation to non-payment of wages. Incidents of people getting attacked, especially on the head, are shocking. Obviously, such cases need immediate medical and police intervention, but for the rest, we accompany the complainant to bring about conflict resolution. It is scary out there. Sometimes, even I feel afraid to enter a hostile situation,” said Rini Ralte, professor of women’s studies at United Theological College, Benson Town, and president of Northeast Solidarity.
 
 Abhish Chakma, one of the four volunteers who receives distress calls and goes out on rescue operations, said most of the callers are either harassed by their landlords or threatened by people. 
 
 “Last October, we came across a case of 35 girls from the northeast who had taken admission in a Bengaluru nursing college after paying fees and submitting their documents. However, realizing that the college lacked Medical Council Of India (MCI) affiliation, they attempted to get back their papers but faced resistance from the institution. Along with the girls, I met the jurisdictional DCP, who directed his officers to assist us. The girls got their documents back after suffering for months. Several such instances took place last year,” Abhish said. 
 
 The helpline in Bengaluru also gets calls from northeast residents about their community members in distress in the city. “A girl from Mizoram was brought here against her will and kept in Indiranagar. Since she didn’t know anyone in Bengaluru, her parents back home reached out to us and we rescued her along with cops,” Chakma said.
 
 According to Northeast Solidarity statistics, the largest group seeking aid is students, followed by security personnel, beauticians and call centre employees from places like Koramangala, Ullal post, Malleswaram, Ejipura and Whitefield.
 
 Many NGOs assist Northeast Solidarity at the grassroots level. But these NGOs, Ralte said, are unable to help monetarily. According to her, they require about Rs 50,000 to run the helpline and take care of transport, phone bills and other expenses incurred by volunteers.
 
 For northeasteners who may not have a support system in a new city, the helpline offers a semblance of security. “We are targeted more because we look different. It doesn’t matter what we wear; we are at the receiving end of harassment and racist slurs. It’s a helpless feeling when you are alone on the road and something happens,” said Junia Zami, 19, a BCom student from Mizoram and resident of Vasanthnagar.
 
 BOX: ‘Nature of jobs makes community vulnerable’
 
 Dr MB Boralingaiah, DCP, southeast, is also the nodal officer for coordination on issues the northeastern community faces. Boralingaiah, who has held the position for about a year, says the jobs taken up by community members and the unorganized nature of their work tends to put them in a vulnerable situation.
 
 “In Bengaluru, discrimination is not rampant due to the city’s cosmopolitan nature. Incidents are usually related to labour, non-payment of wages or mugging. Many of the community members are employed in the hospitality industry where work ends late. This puts them at risk. If there is a serious crime, I speak to the DCP concerned and ask cops to expedite the probe. We have conducted meetings to bring community members in contact with cops in Kothanur, Banaswadi, Hulimavu and parts of Koramangala where there is a huge presence of the community,” he said.
 
 
