Surat: Seven incidents of payment defaults in the textile markets in the last one week show Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) and city police in poor light.  Yet again, the FOSTTA has issued guidelines for shop owners in textile markets while letting out shops on rent to outsiders. These guidelines are being issued by it for the past many years, but the incidents of defaults only continue to increase every passing year. According to a rough estimate provided by the powerloom sector, defaults to the tune of Rs250 crore are reported every year from the textile markets. Fly-by-night operators manage to get rented shops in the markets and then they default on payment for grey and finished fabrics which are due to traders and powerloom weavers. Following a series of defaults to the tune of over Rs10 crore in the last one week, the FOSTTA has asked shop owners not to let out shops on rent without taking reference of the party from at least two traders, police verification certificate and personal details of the occupant. Two years ago, the FOSTTA had set up a legal aid centre in the textile markets to protect the traders cheated by the fly-by-night operators. The legal aid centre worked for a few months before becoming dormant.  In 2016, a few leading textile traders had levelled serious allegations against some office-bearers of the FOSTTA for providing legal help to the owners of a textile trading firm that had defaulted on payments to the tune of Rs six crore. The defaulters lodged a missing complaint about one of the owners and sought the help of the legal desk of the FOSTTA, the textile traders alleged, also questioning the role of Salabatpura police who had registered the complaint.  Ashish Agarwal (name changed), a textile trader, who lost Rs four crore to a fly-by-night operator last year, told TOI: “Before I could approach the police, the fly-by-night operator lodged a complaint with Salabatpura police that his staff worker has fled with important documents, including cheques. The fly-by-night operator is still operating in the market without any problem.”  FOSTTA secretary Champalal Bothra said, “There are 165 textile markets housing more than 75,000 textile shops in the city. All the markets have their own associations. FOSTTA is an apex body, but it has no direct control on market management. We can only issue guidelines and provide legal assistance to traders. It is up to the state government to take a stringent action against fraudsters.”