It has all come down to the last game of the tour. India will consider the tour a success if they prevail over the Proteas in the Newlands encounter. The South Africans batted brilliantly to win the second game at Centurion and will be buoyed by that victory. It was not just the win, but the manner in which they dealt with their tormentor in the One-day series,   that will please them. They will take that confidence into the next game. The pitches at Centurion and Johannesburg have been on the slower side and when Chahal flights the ball, it comes even slower off the pitch, which lets the Proteas batsmen, especially Heinrich Klassen, to use the depth of the crease to pull him or advance down the pitch to loft him into the stands.

 
  joined the fun a little later, but during their partnership, he smartly kept giving the strike to Klassen who was charged up and hitting just about everything off the middle of the bat. This is the second game that Chahal has been hammered, so it won’t be a surprise if   gets to play in his place at Newlands. If the pitch is as flat as it was for the One-day game played earlier in the month, there could well be another big scoring game.
 
 
 
  
 
 It is not often that India lose their top three batsmen before the 50-run mark is reached. Kohli got a beauty that only he was good enough to get a nick while most others would have played and missed it. Manish Pandey, who has been waiting for his chance, grabbed it with both hands and all those who were doubting MS Dhoni’s finishing ability would be silenced by his hitting in the game. It was their near century partnership that took India to the total that they eventually reached. That they were unable to defend it is full credit to the Proteas batsmen.
 
 What needs to be praised even more is the decision of the umpires to keep on playing despite a bit of rain pretty much throughout the Proteas innings. There was a full house and they went home satisfied in the end. Kohli did try to express that his bowlers were getting hampered by the wet ball, but he also deserves full praise for carrying on playing. T20 is pure entertainment and so a little rain should not stop play. It’s a different matter of course if it’s a five-day Test as the pitch could change with the rain.
 
 So congratulations to the Proteas for winning the game but even bigger ones to India and the umpires for not stopping the game and thereby giving the crowd full value for their money.
 
 
