When   speaks Tamil, even if it’s just to ask you ‘Eppadi irukkenga?’ or tell you ‘Nalla irukken’, you momentarily forget that she is a Swedish-Greek actress who has become a household name in Bollywood and Hindi television industry. There’s no accent, and she even manages to get the ‘zha’ right. Elli, who will be debuting in   with  , the remake of Queen, says, “I can only speak my dialogues from the film. But if I get into it, I am sure I will grasp the language fast. It’s a very romantic language.” We caught up with the actress for a quick conversation…

 
 No, there’s no pressure, but it’s a lot of fun. I am super excited about the project. Of course, I have to memorise lines in two different languages that are alien to me. I know Hindi, but none of the south Indian languages. So, I’m actually thrilled that I am going to debut in two languages together. We first shoot a scene in Tamil and immediately shoot it in Kannada. It’s tongue-twistingly fun and I am enjoying every bit of it. I wouldn’t have minded doing the characters in all the four south Indian languages!
 
 
 Yes, anyone would have liked to debut in a strong lead. But the minute I got a call about this film, I said yes immediately because it’s a movie (Queen) I really loved. The character I play — a woman who shows the lead actress what life is all about — is a livewire, something that you often don’t get to do. She is firm and wise. She is a very open, cool and fearless girl. That’s why I wanted to take this up.
 
 
 The character is the same, but we are shooting it differently. The concept is the same. I have understood the character and created my own character out of it. Ramesh Arvind (director) sir wanted me to create my own Rajalakshmi and Vijayalakshmi (her character names in the two films). So, I got to play the characters the way I wanted to.
 
 
 My chemistry with both the actresses is different and that’s what makes it feel like I’m working in two different movies. Kajal is more open to improvisation and doing things on the spot. Parul believes in rehearsal and going through lines; she sticks to the script. Not everyone works in the same way, and that’s perfectly fine, as it gives me totally different experiences while shooting. Also, Ramesh sir is directing both the versions, and he is super supportive on the set and game for experimentation. He brings in a lot of positivity to the set.
 
 
 I met Tamannaah when I had just joined the shoot, but didn’t get time to interact with her much. The schedule was super tight, and I was juggling the films and the shoot for Great Indian Laughter Challenge that I’m hosting, in Mumbai. I actually did   circuit over six times in a span of just a few months.
 
 
 I love to explore newer avenues and I believe that only when you try out different things that you grow as a person. When I got a chance to host this show, I was very nervous. But I took it as a challenge. It was in Hindi and though I knew the language, there were certain things I couldn’t understand because I couldn’t relate to it. But I loved every minute of it. I think this mentality, to not see actors as just actors, should change. I mean, why should I either be a film heroine or a TV actress? Why can’t I be both? There should be no differentiation. We are creative people and there’s no harm in doing things that creatively stimulate us. One should be able to do everything. You should never limit yourself. You should be able to do things that make you happy and excites you because life is limitless.
 
 
 Definitely yes. This might sound weird, but I feel more connected to the south. Whenever I hear the language, especially Tamil, I get excited. People on the set tell me that Tamil comes more naturally to me than Kannada. There’s great energy and vibe in the language. The dance is more powerful and expressive. The movies that are made here are beautiful. I think south films retain Indian-ness.
 
 
