LUDHIANA: Khanna police has arrested six peddlers after it recovered 450g of heroin, worth crores, from them on Friday evening.

 In the first case, Khanna police had set up a checkpost at Bhadla Chowk on the service road of GT road on Friday at around 9.15pm, for checking of suspicious persons. During the checking, police tried to stop a Swift DZire car bearing car registration number PB10FB-5863 coming from   side.
 
 Police officials said the vehicle’s driver tried to speed away, but with great difficulty cops stopped the vehicle. The vehicle’s driver identified himself as Jaspreet Singh of Janta Nagar, and the person sitting next to him as  , also of Janta Nagar. They added that the persons sitting on the back seat identified themselves as Rominsh of Sant Vihar, Haibowal; and Varinder Singh of Rajan Estate, Haibowal Kalan.
 
 Cops said that during the checking of the vehicle’s dashboard, police recovered 425g kept in a polythene bag. They added that the accused were immediately arrested and booked under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at Sadar police station.
 
 In the second such case, cops said the police team was present at the service road in Bullepur on Friday, when an informer provided them a tip-off about peddlers carrying heroin in their vehicle near T Point at Bullepur. They added that during checking of vehicles there, the police team stopped a white Lancer coming from Gobindgarh side.
 
 Police officials said the vehicle’s driver identified himself as Gurwinder Singh of Dhandari Kalan, whereas the person sitting next to him was Gurdeep Singh from the same area. They added that during the vehicle’s checking, police recovered 25g of heroin from the dashboard. Cops said the accused were arrested and booked under various sections of the NDPS Act at Sadar police station.
 
 Meanwhile, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Khanna, Navjot Singh Mahal said they had set up two high-tech checkposts at Neelon and Doraha. He added that during checking of the vehicles, a team led by DSP Samrala Harsimrat Singh stopped a Bolero at   checkpost on Friday. Police officials said the vehicle’s driver identified himself as Satwinder Singh of Kainthal in Haryana, whereas the person sitting next to him was Balwinder Singh of Bhairo Munna. During checking, 120 boxes of illegal liquor were recovered from the vehicle.
 
 Police said the accused were booked under the Excise Act at Samrala police station. Similarly, police also recovered 23 boxes of illegal liquor from an Accent car in Doraha coming from Khanna side at 12.30am on Saturday. The unidentified driver and his co-passenger fled from the spot after leaving the vehicle on the left side of the road. 
 
 
