Mysuru: The   (ECI) will go   in issuing permission to candidates and political parties to hold rallies, public events, campaigns, install banners, use of loudspeakers and vehicles during the assembly elections scheduled in April-May.

 This is for the first time in Karnataka that the ECI is going digital with an aim to keep the procedure transparent and easy. This will help in getting information at fingertip. All candidates and parties will have to seek permission through the application – Suvidha, and they would get reply within a day.
 
 Manual process of providing permission, too, will be there to facilitate those who are not familiar with internet.
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep told TOI, “Suvidha will be the single window system for candidates and political parties to apply for permission for meetings, rallies, vehicles, temporary election office, loudspeakers, helicopters and for election-related campaigns and meetings for the upcoming assembly polls. ECI directed us to give permission within 24 hours from the time of application.”
 
 “The aim of ECI going online is to conduct elections in a transparent and hassle-free manner, and to avoid allegations on favoring political parties during polls. Political parties can view their request status in the respective mobile applications. If the officials failed to permit in time, action will be initiated. The online election process will be observed by the ECI officials,” the DC said.
 
 National-level data compilation of  , functioning at polling stations, work allocation of officers on duty, permission for rallies, public grievances during polls, details about nominations, profile of candidates, party expenditure and other details can be known from the mobile applications and from the websites made available by ECI. 
 
 Zilla panchayat member Pushpa Amarnath told TOI, “We welcome ECI’s decision. It will save our time during elections. In the past, we had to wait for three to four days to get permission, but now we can get the consent within 24 hours.”
 
 The ECI would organize a training programme on the guidelines needed to be followed for the online process, the DC said.
 
 Sources claimed ECI has increased using IT applications to make the elections process smooth, effective and transparent and they were put in practice recently in the Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu elections.
 
 - Mahesh Goudar
 
 
