BHOPAL: In an alleged case of  , a teenaged girl from   district in   was sold for Rs 60,000 to a middle-aged man from  . The girl said she was supposed to marry a younger man and was hoodwinked into the marriage. 

 After she realised that she was cheated, the victim called Dial 100. Cops took her to Bamitha police station, where she narrated the whole incident.
 
 Bamitha police station in-charge Tilak Singh said investigations are underway and an FIR will also be registered. He said that the allegations levelled by the girl are being ascertained. The victim, struggling to speak Hindi, on Saturday said she wanted to marry Sarman, a 21-year-old man from Bamitha village. She alleged that   and Sarman had come to her village in Odisha and Sarman was presented as the "groom".
 
 When she reached Bamitha, she was married to 38-year-old   Patel in a local court, she said.
 
  Interestingly, Jagdish on the other hand admitted that she spent Rs 60,000 for the marriage. "I gave the amount to   and Sarman", he said. Sitting with the girl at the police station, Sarman said he also wanted to marry the girl. 
 
 Police sources said that Kalicharan Patel has been known in the region for "arranging girls from Odisha". "This is not an isolated case in   region, where women from Odisha are regularly brought and sold to men who find it extremely hard to get local girls for marriage", said Sanjay Singh, a Bundelkhand-based activist.
 
 
 
 Singh said, “Poverty, malnutrition and foeticides have led to a skewed sex ratio in this part of the state. There is also a very high mortality rate of the girl child.”
 
 Against the national sex ration of 940 women per 1,000 men in the country, all the districts of Bundelkhand region of MP have a sex ratio below the national average. Chhatarpur, with an abysmally low sex ratio of 883 women per 1,000 men leads the lot, followed by Sagar (893), Tikamgarh (901) and Panna (914).
 
 In the recent past, a large number of similar cases were reported across the Bundelkhand region spread across the two states of MP and Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 
