NEW DELHI: Vehicle owners won't need to pay any road tax for transfer of their vehicle from one state to another and get a new registration number, if all the state governments implement recommendation of a group of state transport ministers (GoM).

 This will apply to vehicles that are more than two years old or where the difference in tax rate between two states is less than 2%.
 
 The dozen transport ministers, who met at Guwahati this week, decided that transfer of vehicles and driving licences from one state to another should be made seamless through online process. The need of no objection certificate (NOC) should also be done away with. Such practices will check corruption and put an end to harassment of public.
 
 The Centre has set up the GoM to address concerns relating to the transport sector and to recommend reforms. The road transport ministry will soon come out with an advisory and rules, sources said.
 
 Currently, to transfer registration of vehicle and driving licence, applicants need to get an NOC from the original issuing authority (RTO) before applying for a new number at the place of residence. “It's cruel that we (transport officials) make people go through this harassment and also make them pay the road tax for 10 years, which they have paid in some other state. This is a practice across the states,” a transport official in Delhi said.
 
 The   ( ) has created two central online data base - Vahan-4 for vehicle registration details and Sarathi-4 - which can be accessed by the issuing authority to delete the existing registration number or licence before issuing a new one after receiving an application.
 
 The GoM has recommended that states are responsible to enter the details of each licence or registration number in the central database and the applicants should not be made to suffer.
 
 Road transport secretary Yudhvir Singh Malik said he has also asked NIC to demonstrate how driving licence holders can easily key in the change of address online to update their communication details.
 
 
 
 
 To push the uniform road tax based on the “invoice price”of the vehicle, the road transport ministry is considering taking the matter to the GST Council since this relates to tax related issue. It may request the Council to invite transport ministers from states and Nitin Gadkari to share their views in the meeting for taking a decision. The GoM has recommended three slabs of road tax; 8% for vehicles priced below Rs 10 lakh, 10% for Rs 10-20 lakh and 12% for those costing over 12%.
 
 
