MUMBAI: Even as the   is ready with a   to reverse the effect of the   nullifying automatic arrest of those accused of committing atrocities on Scheduled Castes and Tribes, a look at the   prisons data shows there were three convicts serving time for offences under the Prevention of Atrocities Act out of a total of over 8,600 convicts lodged as of March 2017. The number does not reflect convicts in any specific year in particular but is an overall count.

 The NCRB's crime in India report (2016) states the conviction rate for this Act to be 10.5% in Maharashtra.
 
 
 Dalit rights activists attributed the low conviction rate to improper collection of evidence by investigators. “Police training courses do not touch upon how evidence needs to be collected in a case under the SC/ST Act. So investigating officers handle the cases in the same manner as any other offence,” said Prakash Ambedkar of the Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh.
 
 Former IPS officer-turned-lawyer YP Singh said the law mandated filing of chargesheets only when there was a chance of conviction. “Being a special law, conviction should be high under this Act but is low. Police have been filing chargesheets without sufficient evidence,” Singh said.
 
 “Maharashtra has among the lowest conviction rates under this Act. At the time of registration itself, police lodge a weak case which allows offenders to get off lightly,” MLC Jogendra Kawade said. “Police harbour biases. Most investigating officers have very little knowledge of this law, so cases don’t stand at trial. Eventually, fingers may be pointed at the victim for levelling a false accusation. This process only emboldens the accused to repeat his actions,” he added.
 
 Former city police commissioner MN Singh said he did not agree that the police have a bias. “There is a provision in the same Act that if a policeman does not act on a complaint, he would be liable for prosecution. So when a complainant approaches them, police immediately register a case,” he said.
 
 Of all the convicts lodged in the state’s prisons, murder offenders form the majority. As of March 2017, more than half of the convicts were incarcerated for murder and 5% for rape.
 
 “Most crimes in rural areas are crimes of passion, like murders or violent crimes. The accused are those who may have killed a family member or an opponent over a land dispute or in the heat of the moment due to an altercation, or due to a history of caste or gender-based conflicts,” said Vijay Raghavan, professor, Centre for Criminology and Justice, School of Social Work, TISS. “Murder cases are easier to prove compared to, say, a property offence. Chances of conviction are higher where a murder accused has surrendered,” he added.
 
 
