KOCHI: The  , founded in 1931, is on poramboke land, according to revenue authorities, and may soon face eviction. The Fort Kochi sub-collector in an order issued on Friday rejected an appeal filed by the club authorities against a directive asking it to return 80.25 cents of ‘encroached’ land on which the club stands.

 Confirming the order, Fort Kochi sub-collector K   said he will ask the Kanayannur revenue officials to take steps to evict the occupants on the encroached land at  .
 
 
 Additional tahsildar of Kanayannur, in an order issued on February 2, 2010, under  , said that Lotus Club is on 'poramboke' land as per revenue records. Since the club exists on encroached land, it should be vacated. But they got a stay on the order. The club authorities approached the Ernakulam sub-court and filed a revision petition before the revenue authority, but both the appeals were dismissed.
 
 The club authorities then approached the Fort Kochi sub-collector, who is the appellate authority, against the order. But the sub- collector in his order issued on April 6, while reiterating what the additional tahsildar said, added that as per basic tax register and poramboke register 80.25 cents of land in the survey number 740/2 of Ernakulam village in Kanayannur taluk is government land encroached by the club illegally.
 
 In its appeal, the club maintained that Maharaja of   had granted them a plot of land at Warriam Road where the club currently functions. The government of Kochi even granted timber for the construction of the club house, they claimed in the petition. The building was further extended in 1942 with the knowledge and permission of the government. “Hence the club is not an illegal or unauthorized occupant though the description on the revenue records is poramboke,” they claimed in the petition.
 
 The sub-collector noted that the club officials could not produce any documentary evidence to prove their claim on the land. A document produced by the appellant showed that the secretary of the club was given twoand-a-half cents of land on May 31, 1938. As per documents, this is seen to be a temporary arrangement with conditions which stipulate that the club shall vacate the land on a three-month notice from the government. If the club fails to surrender the plot, then the occupation will be treated as a case of encroachment and eviction enforced under provisions of the land conservancy act or any other law for time being in force.
 
 The sub-collector noted that the club could not produce any document to prove that Maharaja of Cochin granted the land. It was also found that the Ernakulam sub-court in its order in 2011 noted that club authorities have no valid title over the land. “We have not received a copy of the order yet. Based on the order, governing committee of the club will decide on the further course of action,” said an official of the club.
 
