NAGPUR: Union minister and city MP   has ended the imbroglio regarding Haldiram Foods’ Krazy   Aqua Park, situated in front of Ambazari lake. He has directed   (NIT) and Mahametro to take over the entire 6.4 acre land for   Rail corridor, parking, station and commercial complex.

 Gadkari appointed a three-member committee comprising divisional commissioner Anup Kumar, collector Sachin Kurwe, and NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar to decide the compensation for Haldiram Foods, which had sought Rs 162 crore from NIT.
 
 Gadkari held a marathon meeting with officials of various departments — Mahametro, NIT, NMC, Railways, NHAI, WCL on Tuesday regarding many projects.
 
 Representatives of Haldiram Foods requested   to give some land to the company to run the water park. However, Gadkari reportedly rejected Haldiram Food’s proposal, since there would be very less space left after construction of Metro Rail corridor, station and parking. “Mahametro can build a commercial complex in remaining space. Mahametro should give some space in it for food court to Haldiram Foods, if the latter is interested. Mahametro could adjust food court cost in compensation amount,” the minister said.
 
 Representatives of Haldiram Foods reportedly accepted Gadkari’s decision. Gadkari also hinted Haldiram Foods could go to the high court if it was not satisfied with the compensation. He asked NIT and Mahametro to plan and demolish Krazy Castle as soon as possible.
 
 Gadkari also directed NIT to prepare a plan to develop a new wholesale kirana market in 14 acre on Ring Road at Kalamna. “All wholesale kirana shops at Itwari should be shifted to the new market,” he said.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi, and former mayor Pravin Datke sought Gadkari’s help in solving raw drinking water reservation problem. This led to a debate between NMC office bearers and guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule.
 
 Gadkari expressed disapproval over NMC failing to control water losses. He suggested NMC should become an intervener in petition going on before MWRRA. He also suggested NMC should take help of CM  . He also directed NMC to chalk out a plan and start execution of Rs 227 crore water supply project approved for unauthorized layouts under AMRUT.
 
 East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde informed Gadkari about slow pace of Pardi flyover project by NHAI. Khopde also requested Gadkari to extend the flyover from Jain Mandir to Harihar mandir. Slamming NHAI officials for the slow progress, Gadkari asked them to consider Khopde’s demand.
 
 Gadkari also directed NIT officials to ensure distribution of 1,500 flats under PM Housing Scheme and 500 flats under SRA Scheme by October. He expressed disappointment over NMC’s inaction over parking on two sides of roads across the city. He said regulation of parking on roads can avoid inconvenience due to ongoing development projects.
 
 
