AMRITSAR: Ahead of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) elections, a few of its influential non-baptized Sikh members have reportedly approached the   (five beloved ones) at the Akal Takht to perform the Amrit Sanchar (initiation) ceremony. 

 They are allegedly trying to impress upon the Panj Pyaras to enter their names in the records for the issuance of initiation certificates. 
 
 These certificates are needed to fulfill the mandatory clause in the CKD's constitution, according to which only baptized Sikhs can contest and vote in the Sikh body's elections as directed by the Akal Takht.
 
 Sources said those who had approached the Akal Takht include, some who were vying for the top posts in the institution and the non-baptized members of the Sikh body who are likely to cast their vote.
 
 According to information, former jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib   has urged Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president   to conduct an inquiry and take strict action against such people.
 
 The TOI on Tuesday had reported that the management of the CKD may not be able to adhere to the Akal Takht directives which necessitate all its members to be baptized before casting their vote or contesting elections.
 
  on Wednesday alleged that according to reports, an influential person of Amritsar had approached the Panj Pyaras and 'told' them to leave some blank columns in the record register used for noting down the details of persons taking initiation and fill the name of 'select' CKD members for the issuance of a back-dated certificate. Though, he said, the Panj Pyaras had refused to do so.
 
 While expressing ignorance over any CKD member approaching for the issuance of fake initiation certificate, Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh said, "How could a certificate be issued without taking initiation?"
 
 He also indicated religious action against the CKD members contesting elections or voting without taking initiation. 
 
 "It is written in the CKD constitution that every member should be baptized and this should be followed," he said.
 
 
