BENGALURU: With work on extension of two of the four existing lines — Reach 2 ( ) and Reach 4 (  till Nice Road Crossing) — progressing at a fast pace, BMRCL expects both to be operational by mid-2019. The earlier deadline was this year-end.

 It’s still unclear whether these lines would be opened simultaneously. "Work on both lines are progressing at a steady pace. However, Yelachenahalli to   Township stretch is likely to be completed first. Work on Reach 4 is progressing faster than Reach 2,” a senior BMRCL official said.
 
 “Construction of the elevated network is faster compared to the underground lines. Land acquisition was also minimal since these are extensions of existing lines passing through arterial stretches. We also had few land acquisition issues compared to the Byappanahalli-Whitefield corridor” he said.
 
 BMRCL officials said they’ll commence track-laying, electrical and signalling works after completion of civil work.
 
 The 8.8km of Reach 2 will have stations at Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattanagere, Mailasandra and Kengeri. The 6.52km stretch of Reach 4 will have stations at Anjanapura Road Cross, Krishna Leela Park, Vajrahalli, Thalaghattapura and Anjanapura Township.
 
 The Metro is expected to bring relief to thousands of people, especially office-goers from Kengeri and Anjanapura.
 
 Metro work on Kanakapura Road has caused severe traffic congestion in the area during peak hours and shrunk the road width. “We’re facing severe traffic congestion especially at Konanakunte Cross. We hope the stretch would be completed as early as possible. We’re happy with the progress on this stretch,” said Dinesh Rao, a regular commuter on Kanakapura Road.
 
 
 
 
 The Namma   to Kengeri and Anjanapura Township (till Nice Road Crossing) could be a boost for the real estate sector there. The sector, recovering from the twin impacts of demonetisation and GST, is keeping its fingers crossed. Several residential projects are coming up in areas such as Kengeri, Mysuru Road and Kanakapura Road and Metro connectivity is expected to attract many prospective buyers.
 
 Real estate officials said there are several affordable housing projects targeting the middle class. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (Bengaluru) secretary Adarsh Narahari said: “There are several low-cost projects in these areas since it’s an industrial belt. We hope that Metro connectivity to areas like Kengeri and Kanakapura will help the real estate sector.” 
 
 “There is already a demand for projects along Metro corridors because of better connectivity and accessibility,” he said.
 
 Shankar Sastri, president, Credai Karnataka, said, “The government should provide adequate infrastructure along Metro corridors to attract people. Apart from the Metro, migration from core city to outlying areas depends on factors like schools, hospitals and entertainment facilities.”
 
 Reach 2 (Mysuru Road to Kengeri)
 
 Reach 2A
 
 Distance: 3.94km
 
 Stations: Nayandahalli, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattanagere
 
 Contractor: IL&FS Engineering Construction Company Ltd
 
 Cost: Rs 327 crore
 
 Reach 2B
 
 Distance: 4.86km
 
 Stations: Mailasandra, Kengeri
 
 Contractor: Soma Enterprise Ltd
 
 Cost: Rs. 332 crore
 
 Reach 4 (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura Township till Nice Road Crossing)
 
 Distance: 6.52km
 
 Stations: Anjanapura Road Cross, Krishna Leela Park, Vajrahalli, Thalaghattapura, Anjanapura Township
 
 Contractor: Nagarjuna Constructions Company Ltd
 
 Cost: Rs. 508 crore
 
 
