CHENNAI: Travellers reaching Chennai on   late at night may have to wait longer to get their bags at the   as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has started work near the main runway to straighten a  . Since the work will be taken up at night and the main runway will be closed at the time, a few domestic flights will be taxiing to the remote parking bays near the second runway. 

 This means   will be ferried from the remote parking bays to the domestic terminal in shuttle buses that will have to cover around 5km. Though the buses may reach the terminals quickly, the bags may not because slow-moving battery-operated vehicles bring the trolleys to the terminal. 
 
 “We are trying to rope in trucks to shift the bags to the terminal. Passengers may experience delays in reaching the terminal and receiving bags on the conveyor belt for nine months because the work to straighten the taxiway is entering a crucial phase. The runway closure is also being done under the condition that it has to be released for flights in less than an hour in case of an emergency,” said a senior AAI official.
 
 Domestic airlines operate around five to six red-eye flights from other cities and park the planes in the remote bay overnight so that they can be operated as early morning services from Chennai. The work and the runway closure will affect only those flights. “The number of passengers who take red-eye flights is increasing because they are cheaper. Some flyers may also want to connect to an international  . These passengers are likely to face delays because of the work,” he added.
 
 He also said the airport was taking steps to minimise the impact on their operations. “Providing trucks to transport baggage is one option. More options are being worked out,” he said.
 
 AAI has started work to straighten the taxiway that bends and runs closer to the main runway near the cargo terminal as it’s a bottleneck for taxiing flights. The work, expected to go on for two years, will be taken up in phases and is being carried out near the runway now. When the work reaches its peak after a few months, the main runway will be closed throughout the day too and the second runway will be used.
 
 
