
 
CHANDIGARH: The  's bicycle initiative seems to be fizzling out fast. 
 
 Barely into its fifth week, the initiative witnessed a decrease in the number of   employees coming on bicycles to office in Sector 17.
 
 On Wednesday, less than 50 MC employees out of a total around 800 were seen using bicycles to reach office with MC top officials taking the lead.
 
 There were hardly any women employees who used bicycles and most came in four-wheelers or used the public transport or cabs.
 
 According to an MC official, who didn't want to be named, most employees park their vehicles away from the MC building and then take a walk. "As parking vehicles is not allowed in the building, on Wednesdays, most employees park their vehicles in other parking lots at Sector 17 and the walk down to the office," said the official.
 
 The MC had last month announced the initiative under which all MC employees were supposed to come to office on bicycles on every Wednesday. The initiative was launched on March 7.
 
 The initial Wednesdays had seen over 100 employees coming to office on bicycles.
 
 When contacted,  , Chief Engineer said hot weather could be a reason for low numbers.
 
 "May be it's the hot weather becasue of which few people are using bicycles. But I think most of the people preferred to travel by public transport."
 
 Meanwhile, on Wednesday morning, Jitender Yadav, MC commissioner and Manoj Kumar Bansal, among others rode cycles to reach the office. 
 
 Only a single woman reached the office by riding a bicycle. In previous weeks, many women preferred to ride bicycles to reach the office. Around 15 officers have used bicycles to reach the office. Different spots have been assigned to park the bicycle. 
 
 Tejdeep Singh Saini, joint commissioner, MC stated "I request that a good bicycle stand should be built here. MC should motivate the employees and award those, who prefer to travel by using bicycle. We have to motivate the public, so that they would also start such move, so that we can make an eco-friendly environment. "
 
 "After starting this initiative I have been riding bicycle on every Wednesday .People should either use bicycle or public transport in once a week to reach their office. It would be beneficial for making an eco-friendly environment,", said Ram Singh, SDO, Roads. Hope the campaign builds up in the days to come so as to improve the environment .
 
 
