Nagpur: Changing patterns in customer behaviour translates to adaptation by an organization’s sales team to attract more businesses. To help city businessmen adapt to this change the marketing forum of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) organized a talk with the topic titled ‘New approach to selling’ at its hall on Wednesday.

 Director of South State Business School, Abhirama Krishna, and executive director-cum-founder of Hyderabad-based think tank Nivritti Associates, LLP KV Vishwanathan, were invited to throw light on current marketing concepts. 
 
 After conducting a few activities with the attendees which established how people generally think, Krishna concluded that consumers are predictable. He said, “Consumers follow a certain pattern while buying various goods and services. The key is understanding what these patterns are in context of your business.”
 
 Krishna says a customer is seeking a solution to a problem unique to his organization and therefore approaches someone for that solution. “The solution is in the form of a product or a service. So not only is it important to know your product but equally important to understand the specific requirements of your client in relation to the product,” he said.
 
 Krishna suggests talking to at least four key persons in the client organization to get a clear understanding of an issue. “For example, a chief executive officer of a company will worry about rising costs, the chief finance officer will worry about declining profits and the executive vice-president of investment strategies will worry about slow sales. Speaking to such persons will help you offer a better solution,” he said.
 
 The most successful sales call, according to Krishna, is the one where the client asks for services in the future while making a payment for the current deal. He also suggested to look out for opportunities which competitors might miss.
 
 Personal interaction with a client can be stressful for the person making a sales pitch since there is a looming fear the deal might go sour. Vishwanathan gave some pointers to manage pre-meeting stress situation. “It is a good idea to change your body posture to decrease the intensity of stress. The reason is, staying in a particular posture while in a stressful situation increases its intensity. But changing the position of your body tricks your mind into thinking the situation has defused,” he said.
 
 “While sitting down just before a meeting you can just tilt your head up and take a deep breath,” Vishwanathan added.
 
 ends
 
 
