LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) police on Thursday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe charges against an ASI after the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader Simarjit Singh Bains released an audio recording wherein he is allegedly asking for a bribe from a person for releasing his tractor of sand. The cops meanwhile suspended the ASI and sent him to Police lines after the complaint against him. 

 The officer was identified as ASI Rajwinder Singh, posted in Sidhwan Bet police station. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ludhiana (Rural),   said that following a complaint, the ASI Rajwinder has been placed under suspension and asked to report to District Police Lines. 
 
 He added given the sensitivity of the matter and allegations against the ASI, a departmental enquiry will be conducted against the officer by a Special Investigation (SIT) comprising SP Detective Rupinder Bhardwaj, DSP Dakha Jaswinder Singh and CIA Incharge Lakbhir Singh.
 
 Police officers said that the probe will be conducted in a time-bound manner and if found guilty the ASI will face strict punishment. He added that the tractor being used by the persons for transporting sand is also illegal as the same are to be used for farming only. LIP leader   said that Sidhwan Bet police had seized six tractors and booked them under mining act even as they had slips from   proving legal mining. He added that some of the tractors drivers were arrested and got bail after four days.
 
 “One of the tractor owners Chandi Ram of Panj Tera in Phillaur came to me before “setting” the bribe with the ASI before he informed me about the case. He also gave me the audio which he had recorded wherein the ASI is asking for Rs.60, 000 from him for not registering case against him. After getting the audio, I went to SSP and gave him the same and asked him to act”, said the LIP leader. 
 
 “I feel that the ASI was not just the one involved in the bribe case but I suspect other senior officers are also involved in the case”. He added that if the SSP doesn’t register case against the ASI, he along with the victims will go to meet Director General of police (DGP) for getting FIR registered against the officer and if need arises he will also sit on protest outside his office. Simarjeet Bains trashed the assertion by the police officer that the tractor trolleys cannot be used for transporting sand, saying that mining act doesn’t suggest so.
 
 The LIP leader said that he was shocked to know that the SHO of Sidhwan Bet who was transferred from there to   after   Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu brought the matter to the notice of DGP, returned as SHO in the same police station within three hours.
 
 He alleged that he came to know that batteries etc of the tractors seized by the Sidhwan Bet police were found missing by the owners. The vigilance wing of the PSPCL had suspended Sub-Inspector and an Assistant Sub-Inspector, posted in the anti-power wing Ludhiana, for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 during a sting operation conducted by   chief Simarjeet Singh Bains.
 
 
