NEW DELHI: A family from   in UP has discovered in tragic circumstances that their 20-year-old son who had gone missing in Delhi six months back was killed with an axe and wooden planks by three men. They had received a   that had gone viral from an   and were shocked to find the man, Ajab Singh, being killed and his body brutally dismembered. To add to the mystery, when they called up the number from which the video had been forwarded, the man at the other end turned hostile and then switched off the phone. A police team from Sambhal is now in Delhi to uravel the mystery.

 Singh had left his home eight months back to come to Delhi and resume his job that he had left midway a year back. He used to work with a carpenter. He had promised his family that he would return home in December this year to attend his sister’s wedding. It was his elder brother, Bunty, who received the video that plunged the family into grief. 
 
 Bunty recalled that Singh had visited Sambhal eight months back for his wedding. “He had come home for my wedding and stayed here for over a month. He had never used a phone and we had to force him to keep one when he was leaving,” he added. After he had settled down in his job, he had called his family. “He said he lived near a flyover in Kashmere Gate area. For the next two months, he spoke to us on and off, but six months back he called from an STD booth saying that he has lost his phone. That was the last conversation we had with him.”
 
 The video has left them shaken. “I usually don’t download videos, especially those that I receive from unknown numbers. But I was sitting idle one Sunday and happened to download it. What I saw left me scarred. At first, I refused to believe that it was my brother in the video and immediately rushed to show it to my parents,” said Bunty.
 
 “My mother is still in a state of shock and has not been eating or drinking anything and had to be hospitalised,” he said. The family has got a case registered at the local police station and a police team from Sambhal has come the capital to ascertain which part of Delhi the video was shot in — could be elsewhere too — and identify the men seen in it.
 
 The clip shows three men with axe and wooden planks. They first hit the man and throw bricks at him even as he keeps asking them to stop. Ignoring his howling, the men continue to thrash him. Finally, they dismember the body.
 
 
