Malda: A Raiganj locality woke up to the sounds of police boots, bagpipes and love on Wednesday.

 Ukilpara, in Uttar Dinajpur district, was witness to a make-up session on Valentine’s Day — only the parties concerned were police and a resident who had roundly abused police on social media following road accidents on February 9 that had claimed two lives.
 
 On Wednesday morning, police came knocking on the door of Bubul Chakraborty, a small trader. When he opened the door to the music of bagpipes, police, who included woman officials, handed him a bouquet, a teddy, a pot of sweet and a card that said ‘Happy Valentine’s Day’. Police officer Sandip Chakraborty said: “It is a small gift and message from our police super.” 
 
 “But why me?” mumbled Bubul. He was one of many who had abused Raiganj police following the the death of Class X student Pratik Chattopadhyay in an accident near Siliguri More on February 9 and the resultant clashes between residents and police. That very night, another person was mowed down at the same spot, inflaming the situation further. “Police should be slapped” and “they deserve kick on the ***” were some of the comments on Bulbul’s Facebook page. 
 
 Schoolteacher Shankar Roy was another resident who shared Bulbul’s views. Roy too was visited by police at his Sukanta More home. He was out but his father, former policeman Raghunath Roy, accepted gifts and flowers from the cops to the music of bagpipes
 
 Hurt by the social media comments, police superintendent Shyam Singh hit upon the plan to send the abusers a personal message alongwith gifts on Valentine’s Day. Singh said: “It is our motto to reach people. Of course, the comments hurt us but we felt it our duty to dispel the hatred (towards us). Legal action would not have served the purpose as a message of love could. And which better day than today?”
 
 Raiganj police had taken a lesson from the controversy sparked by the arrest of two persons following abusive social media comments against police in neighbouring Balurghat during Durga Puja last year. 
 
 Bulbul’s father Nikhil hailed the unique police gesture. “My son should not have made such remarks. We are grateful that no action was taken against him,” he said. Roy’s father Raghunath said: “I don’t know what my son did. I sincerely apologise on his behalf.”
 
 Superintendent Singh put it down to duty. “Police have to do their job amid many odds. It is not possible to succeed without cooperation from citizens,” he said.
 
 
