PATIALA: A number of employees, whose services have been terminated by the  , staged a protest on Tuesday in front of the General Shivdev Singh Diwan Gurbachan Singh Khalsa College here. The employees are demanding reinstatement in the SGPC-run college.

 Working as a sewadar at the college, Ricky Paras was shocked on Tuesday morning after she was handed over the letter of termination of her services. Ricky, who had scored 87% in Class XII and 82% in Class X, is also pursuing her graduation in the same college. She was among the 25 such employees who staged a protest in front of the college. They claimed that the SGPC’s decision was wrong and would ruin their lives. Among the ousted are seven safai sewaks, five sewadars, five lab attendants, seven clerks and a gardener.
 
 “We were already working on measly salaries of Rs 5,000 to 8,000 per month. We reached the college to mark the attendance but we were handed over the termination letters. What a cruel joke! This is also a violation of the labour laws that make mandatory for any organization to give notice before termination of services,” Khuswant Kaur, a safai sewak, who came, along with her two daughters, to stage the protest against SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal.
 
 College principal Dharminder Singh Ubba, said, “We have just implemented the orders of the SGPC. I am not the appropriate person to comment on the matter.”
 
 Longowal had recently announced termination of services of around 530 employees recruited during the term of his predecessor Kirpal Singh Badungar, who served from November 5, 2016, to November 29, 2017. He took the decision after the four-member sub-committee comprising SGPC senior vice-president Raghujit Singh Virk, junior vice-president Harpal Singh Jalla, executive member Sajjan Singh Bajjuman and member Baldev Singh submitted its report, maintaining that violations were done in recruitments made during Badungar’s term.
 
 The committee was constituted by Longowal to probe the alleged rule violations in the recruitments. Badungar had already demanded a judicial probe in the matter from a retired or a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court and claimed that appointment of all 530 employees were made in accordance with the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925. He said that, “I had already requested the SGPC president and the Akal Takht jathedar to get the matter probed independently from a judge so that truth comes out. If I am found guilty, I am ready to face stringent punishment. But to take such a harsh decision of throwing out employees based on an inquiry conducted by junior officials in the SGPC is not fair.”
 
 
