CHENNAI: From large tech majors like   game to small Chennai startups focusing on April Cool 'plant-a-sapling' day - corporates are looking at brand recall as well as fooling their customers.

 
 At Google, there is a new option for users to play "Where's Waldo" via Google Maps for April 1, 2018. For Google, offering games has become a norm, after bringing in Pac-Man in 2015 and Ms Pac-Man in 2017. Burger King tried to pull a fast one by announcing that it's creating its first Chocolate Whooper - a chocolate cake bun, a flame-grilled chocolate patty, raspberry syrup (ketchup), white chocolate rings (onions), candied blood oranges (tomatoes) and vanilla frosting (mayo).
 
  tried to shock and irk its followers by announcing new flavours - avocado, sourdough and charcoal - on Instagram.
 
 Ola said it was launching a hyperlocal news service   for getting news on "paneer ka price" or "local weather ka wither?". UberEats has announced an anti-ageing ice cream, while   launched an 'Oyo Smart Coin' for digital payments and Urban Ladder offered its latest product - a chair cum ladder with a coffee mug holder.
 
 Olay India was quick to take credit for UberEats' prank tweeting, "Big shout out to @UberEATS_IND for being inspired by our #1AntiAgingcream - Welcome to the Club!"
 
 On a more literary note, Penguin India, came with a list of Shakespearan fools, memorable quotes and passages to take us through the day with the Bard's wittiest and best. Others like LiveHistory.com also took us on a stroll down memory lane - by mentioning iconic fools like governor general Lord William Bentick from the East India Company, who came with the idea of selling Taj Mahal's marble block by block to England. Reliance Jio has promised to solve all your power outage issues with JioJuice. It put out a video asking users to insert their Jio SIM into phones for automatic charging.
 
 For something startling in clothesline, Aditya Birla Group announced the "Mr. India movie lovers rejoice! We're bringing your childhood fantasy to life! After years of R&D, we're proud to announce the world's first invisible shirt! Prepare to stun friends and family by turning yourself into a floating head! Know more."
 
 
