PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa has disposed of a writ petition challenging approvals granted by the   (IPB) to several projects in coastal regulation zone (CRZ), as the board has recalled the approvals.

 Goa Foundation had filed the petition, alleging that the approvals granted by the IPB were illegal and void since the Investment Promotion Board Act explicitly prohibited the board from considering or granting recommendation in case of projects in CRZ and khazan areas, among others. 
 
 The petition was filed by Goa Foundation against Yacht Heaven Pvt Ltd, Mormugao, Kargwal Construction Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, Ace Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd, Benaulim, Chaksu Properties Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, Niraamaya Retreats, Bengaluru, Total Composites Pvt Ltd, Kolkata and   and  , New Delhi.
 
 In an affidavit, the government informed the court that the board, at its 18th meeting held on December 2, 2017, had withdrawn all approvals issued by it after considering its legal position and obtaining legal opinion.
 
 As per the restriction under Section 8 of the Goa Investment Promotion Act, 2014, the board is prohibited from issuing approvals to projects in CRZ areas and khazan lands. As such, these project proposals in the CRZ do not come under the purview of the IPB.
 
 The IPB has withdrawn approvals to Chaksu Properties Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, Niraamaya Retreats, Bengaluru, Total Composites Pvt Ltd, Kolkata and Aswem Beach Resort and Villas Pvt Ltd, New Delhi.
 
 While the petition was pending before the court, three respondents, Yacht Heaven Pvt Ltd, Mormugao, Kargwal Construction Pvt Ltd, Mumbai, and Ace Hotels and Resorts Pvt, Benaulim had got their names deleted on various grounds. 
 
 As the board took a general decision, the division bench comprising Justice N M Jamdar and Justice   directed that the board examine the cases of these three respondents within six weeks after following due procedure.
 
 The court also ordered that any decision taken in these three matters should be placed before the court after duly informing the counsels of other parties in the matter.
 
  told TOI that Goa Foundation had submitted to the government a list of other projects in CRZ areas that were being processed during the pendency of the petition. “We will verify whether approvals to these (not included in petition) have also been withdrawn,” Alvares said.
 
 
