Lailaakam is ready to bloom in Malayalam yet again, and this time with a differently nostalgic, vintage aroma. Actress  , who returned to M-Town after her first film Ezra recently through the mega project  , has just wrapped up shooting her portions as the female lead of the film. When we spoke to her before in December, the actress was just acquainting herself with the character of Janaki and even the yesteryear looks of it. How have things been for her in the past few months of shoot? We quiz Priya:

 
 
 Oh yes, and I miss it now! The film is nearing completion and I have finished shooting for my character. I lived in those costumes for many months and at present, when the climate is so hot, I feel ‘Oh my God, I wish I could just wear my costume around,’ as it was really comfortable and cool. Now, if I wear them in Chennai people might think I'm crazy but the humid climate of Kerala agreed with it very well. Janaki was so real and earthy, and the whole set also reflected the spirit and ambience of the time. For me, stepping outside my van onto the set was like switching on a time machine. All of our costumes are inspired from the attires of Keralites in the 18th century.
 
 
 I didn’t know much about Janaki or Kayamkulam Kochunni, but I am sure being someone who has read Amar Chithrakadha, I might have stumbled upon them years ago. It’s when the film came to me that I learnt more about them in depth. That said, everytime I speak about it what strikes my mind is that it is such an imaginative story and it's a tale that most people would have already read about it. Grandmas might have narrated it to you as bedtime stories while feeding you. Imagination is what works wonders for a story like this. 
 A lot of times when such tales are made into movies, you might feel the imagination was better and the real film can’t match up to the images in your head. But in this film, I can say that the visuals can surpass anything anyone could imagine. It brings together a lot of new concepts in a visually stunning fashion. Also, I like doing movies for family audience and this is one such movie.
 
 
 The language was tough for sure and as the film was shot in sync sound, I had to learn my lines doubly well, have my accent right, and not take any prompting. Rosshan was very particular about all of it. In order to be a complete director’s artiste, I had to make sure that my lines were not something I would fumble on. We had to have a kind of patience and passion from everyone in the team for this project and all of it was challenging. 
 
 
 
 Well, I don’t want to comment on my screen time with Mohanlal sir yet. Nivin was a lot of fun to work with and has this prankster side to him, which is quite amusing. But, all of us had this sense of working on something really important, so it was not just all about sitting or joking around and hanging out. We had to get a lot finished, every day and Nivin was also focused on his kalari and getting everything about the character right, just as much as I concentrated on Janaki. 
 Our love song in the film is quite an epic and endearing one, I can say. 
 
 I have always been blessed with my love songs, for instance it’s great that Lailaakame struck a great chord with the music buffs. The song in Kochunni is the one with which I started my shoot for the film and we shot with montages, till the last day. Bollywood choreographer Saroj Khan’s son Raju Khan is the one who choreographed the song. 
 
 
 
 She is every woman, who reacts, feels, matures and grows over time with experiences. When you are young and naive, you are a different person and all of a sudden when life happens, it can shape you differently. Survival is our main instinct and we learn to observe and adapt. Be it the woman and English Vinglish or Kayamkulam Kochunni, this is my theory on it. There is a contrast in what the stories are, but women's stories are universal. You might have a well-to-do family, but you can still get neglected by members or be taken advanted of, and same happens with Janaki. Eventhough she is from centuries before me and from a different strata of society, she is every woman. 
 I don't want to give away much, but my character does have a lot of shades and Janaki goes through a transformation as well. 
 
 
 
 I have projects in Tamil and Kannada, and my Kannada film is titled Orange. But, what I want to do more are Malayalam movies. 
 
 
