NAGPUR: The grand finale of the biggest digital programming contest ‘Smart India Hackathon 2018’ was inaugurated at   and Management (RCOEM) and   (YCCE) by union minister for transport   and mayor Nanda Jichkar on Friday. 

 Both the institutions played host to more than 80 teams comprising budding engineers coming from different parts of the country.
 
 At RCOEM, Gadkari asked the students to go an extra mile and think out the box to use engineering knowledge and come up with such innovations which would be fruitful to the society. He encouraged them to use their technical expertise and try out unique ideas to make the money roll and contribute in national economic growth. 
 
 The two-day Hackathon is seeing a participation of nearly 10,000 students representing 1,296 teams spread over 28 nodal centres of India who would be working over the problem statements for 36 hours at a stretch. 
 
 The productive crew of 6-8 youngsters is expected to solve real life problems given to them by various ministries and departments of central and state governments. The best solutions would not only be recognized at the national level but also be implemented. 
 
 A brainstorming event has been organized by   under the aegis of ministry of human resource development in collaboration with Persistent Systems. 
 
 “This year, the Hackathon will be conducted in two parts. After the ongoing software edition which focuses on software product development and coding, there will be a hardware edition in which teams will compete in a five-day non-stop challenge to build hardware solutions,” said union HRD minister Prakash Javadekar via video message. 
 
 Last year, around 600 problems were solved through this initiative. This time, the number is 408, he added. The charged up bunch of students seemed engrossed as they scrutinized their problems from various aspects to bring out the best practical solutions.
 
 At RCOEM, student Mallika Kambli from Mumbai said, “We are designing an SOS system from vehicles using different modules from the existing ones. We are confident that it will cut down the overall cost to a great extent.” 
 
 Another tech savvy participant K Bhavana from Tiruvallur (Tamil Nadu) said, “Integration between RTO, police and insurance companies is our issue. The system will help the police to track down details of the victims in case of fatal accidents.”
 
 
 
 
