NASHIK: The   on Saturday awarded   to all the six men who were recently convicted for   in a   at   of Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra on January 1, 2013.

 “All six shall be hanged by neck till they are dead... subject to confirmation of the high court,” said the judge while pronouncing the judgment. The court of R R Vaishnav also handed over seven years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) and fine of Rs 10,000 each to the six upper caste villagers for criminal conspiracy, causing disappearance of evidence and giving false information.
 
 The six men had killed three Dalit youths — Sachin Gharu, Sandeep Thanwar and Rahul Kandare — following a love affair between Gharu and the daughter of one of the convicts. The incident had sparked widespread resentment among the Dalit community in the state.
 
 On January 15, the court had convicted Ramesh Vishwanath Darandale, Prakash Vishwanath Darandale, Sandeep Madhav Kurhe, Ashok Sudhakar Nagire, Popat Vishwanath Darandale and Ganesh Popat Darandale for killing Sachin Sohanlal Gharu, Sandeep Raju Thanwar and Rahul Kandare.
 
 The seventh accused, Rohidas Phalke, was acquitted for lack of evidence.
 
 Gharu worked at Newasa College in Ahmednagar where the daughter of Popat Vishwanath Darandale was pursing her BEd studies.
 
 The girl’s father had called Gharu, a sanitation worker, to their village on the pretext of cleaning a septic tank. Gharu went to the village with Thanwar and Kandare. Though the latter two had no connection with the love affair, they too were mercilessly killed along with Gharu.
 
 “The court observed that it was the rarest of the rare case, given the manner in which six convicts killed the Dalit youths. Such people have no right to live in society and hence the capital punishment,” special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told reporters after the verdict.
 
 Nikam said that words are not enough to describe the cruelty in the incident in which the body of Sachin was cut into pieces and the village with Thanwar and Kandare. Though the latter two had no connection with the love affair, they too were mercilessly killed along with Gharu.
 
 “The court observed that it was the rarest of the rare case, given the manner in which six convicts killed the Dalit youths. Such people have no right to live in society and hence the capital punishment,” special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam told reporters after the verdict.
 
 Nikam said that words are not enough to describe the cruelty in the incident in which the body of Sachin was cut into pieces and dumped in a borewell.
 
 The court ordered that Rs 20,000 of the fine amount be paid to the legal heirs of each of the deceased. The court also asked the District Legal Services Authority to make an enquiry and award compensation as per Section 357 (A) of the CrPC and also asked the government to give compensation. Defence lawyer Avinash Bhide said the convicts would move the Bombay HC against the lower court’s order. “The conviction and the sentence are based on circumstantial evidence and hence we believe the high court may not confirm the decision.”
 
 
 
