CHANDIGARH: Accepting the report presented by Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment ( ) against an assistant professor stating that PU should uphold a ‘zero tolerance’ policy for sexual harassment, the syndicate decided that “exemplary punishment” should be given to the assistant professor.

 The professor was found guilty of sexual harassment. Four complaints of sexual harassment were filed against him, out of which, one complaint was withdrawn. Meanwhile, he apologised in one case and was found guilty in two cases. 
 
 PUCASH, in its report, had stated that there must be no impunity for the offenders and reiterated that any person found repeatedly indulging in such an offence must be dealt with strictly.
 
 PUCASH said all the complaints against the assistant professor must be dealt collectively so as to corroborate and strengthen the case. Now, the   will take a final decision on the issue. According to one of the complaints against the assistant professor, he once entered the classroom in an inebriated condition and cited “inappropriate” examples like acronym KISS. One of the complainants also said he had called her to his room in the department and said ‘I love you’ to the student. The complainants said before PUCASH that they don’t want ‘this teacher to teach them’.
 
 PUCASH in its report gave a unanimous opinion that the action as recommended by the committee should be taken at the earliest. Failure to take any action or delay in action implies a violation of the provisions of the Government of India’s legislation.
 
 The matter was earlier tabled in the senate on April 1 to decide on the penalty to be imposed on the assistant professor. The senate went for   to decide on the  . Out of 50 senate members, 32 senate members polled to remove the assistant professor with the possibility of future employment and 18 voted for demotion to a lower rank. Unable to get the two-third majority, the university senate could not take a decision even after four hours of discussion. 
 
