KOLKATA: Light showers over two days last week has left a segment of the Park Circus connector to EM Bypass waterlogged and opened up craters in the blacktop on which crores were spent less than six months ago.

 Waterlogging in such a brief spell of rain has worried motorists as well as the residents of Tangra about what the situation could be when heavy showers lash the city in monsoon.
 
 Cars have been wading through the waterlogged section between the Topsia-Tangra intersection on the connector and Milan Mela ground since the light rains on Sunday. With the gully pits along the road choked, the scant rainwater accumulated on the stretch. The open drains along this section also added to the problem.
 
 Water has seeped below the mastic asphalt surface and caused flaking. As vehicles plied on them, it led to craters. Aniket Singha who drives on the stretch every day, “The mastic asphalting was done just months ago. It is a pity that such callousness has damaged the new road.”
 
 Regular commuters and locals say the problem has been persisting for years. South   secretary   said, “Initially, there were no drains. So the water had nowhere to go. Drains were constructed a couple of years ago, but it has not solved the problem as maintenance is poor. Also, debris and waste from construction of highrises in Tangra has added to the problem.”
 
 The Chinese community of the area is particularly angry about the situation at the entrance to  . With several thousands visiting the dozens of restaurants that dot this 2sqkm Chinese habitation, the waterlogging proves a deterrent to business, discouraging patrons who then choose to dine someplace else.
 
  (KMC) drainage and sewage department officials admitted to the problem. “There is a major blockage in the drainage lines under the Bypass. We have pressed specialized machines into service to clear the choked drains. It will take two-three days to remove the blockage. We hope to complete the job before the next spell of rain,” a   official said.
 
