When we caught up with   on the set of her new film,  , the actress looked nearly unrecognizable. For starters, she was in character, clad in a  , and second, she had lost so much weight that she almost was like the   audiences first saw in films like Veera Madakari and Gokula. Between takes at a hotel in the outskirts of the city, the actress spoke to us about her films and the makeover.

 
 
 It is one of the most interesting films I have done in my career. I am very excited about it and want everyone to watch it because it brings out a lot of characteristics and things that I have not done in a long time. It’s also very relatable, as it is based on real events that have happened. I play a Muslim character for the first time. Also, Shekar and I wanted to collaborate for a while and it has worked out for now for The Terrorist. People will have to watch the film and find out if I am the terrorist or not.
 
 
 
 Yes, you are right. Usually, Shekar portrays his heroines well in terms of the depth of character as well as how they look onscreen. But what we are doing in this film is extremely raw and different even for a director like Shekar to experiment with. He hasn’t done this much, as he likes to do romantic films. For me, it is different in terms of the character and script. I loved the script. It is a very fast-paced film that brings out a lot of emotions. The moment we say ‘terrorist’, we tend to relate it to people from a particular religion, which is not the way it should be. There are a lot of exciting elements in the film.
 
 
 
 I have shot in places I would have never imagined I would. Like, for instance, KR Market, Russell Market, busy streets, jungles, garbage bins, Lalbagh, small towns, etc. I shot on a bus, which was my first time on a KSRTC bus. I did a fair bit of shopping at KR Market and seeing all the fresh produce there was amazing.
 
 
 
 Initially, they did not recognize me because I was all covered up in a burkha, with most of my face covered and sunglasses to top it off. We took advantage of that for a while. But even when they got to know it was me, they were not troublesome at all. Moreover, we had local police officers helping us out. I loved the experience. Every film that I have been a part of since my comeback after the   has been exciting as they are all very different.
 
 
 
 People think that it was really drastic, because I came out into the public after a while. There was speculation that I had undergone surgery and other unethical methods to achieve this. Until then, I hadn’t even heard of some of the things that were attributed to my weight loss.
 It’s been a quite a journey for me; it’s been nearly a year. I went through the whole process by myself. Back then, I was doing really well with my solo films. I was getting a lot of good offers and had signed up for a few. But then, I decided to stop shooting for Naane Next CM in the middle of the film, and let go of other film commitments, which is such a big deal as far as an actor is concerned. It was a tough decision, because audiences accepted me even when I had the extra weight on me. I put my health ahead of my career and got myself admitted at a natural weight loss centre in Dharmasthala for 20 days. The most important part is that I did not do it for films; I wanted to be fit again. I have always been an athletic person and I couldn’t see myself like that anymore —unhealthy and lethargic. Once I came back, I did a lot of meal replacement programmes, I got a trainer who really changed my life around and figured out a workout routine that was best suited for me. I did a few crazy liquid diets, which I would not recommend to anyone, but then I had to lose the weight in a certain amount of time. For six months, I was only eating and working out and that’s why the change seems drastic.
 
 
 
 More than romancing them onscreen, I miss my co-actors, because they have all been such amazing friends. I miss talking to a hero or doing scenes with them. But starting this year, I am trying to find the right balance of doing commercial movies and solo films. Even in my solo films, you will see me romancing, but probably not as much as earlier. I am doing an amazing film with  , which has comedy and romance. Naane Next CM also has a bit of romance and a surprise hero.   has me working with Sudeep again, but there is no romance.
 
 
