BENGALURU:   on Tuesday rejected the demand of neighbouring   to lift the night ban on traffic through  , notwithstanding a fresh spin given by the latter that the restriction was hampering movement of techies between the two states.

 Karnataka made its stand clear at a high-level meeting of its forest department officials with their counterparts from Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the presence of the National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) representatives.
 
 “Officials from Kerala highlighted the alleged inconvenience to people moving between the states. They also pointed out that a lot of techies commute between Bengaluru and various destinations in Kerala as they either belong to those places or work there. Lifting the ban will help them,” said a source.
 
 Kerala officials also said the ban had taken a toll on the movement of people and goods between the two states, affecting business.
 
 NH 212 (connecting Gundlupete to  ) and NH 67 (Gundlupete to Ooty) cutting through Bandipur forest are closed for vehicular traffic from 9pm to 6am based on the orders of the Karnataka high court in 2010. Only nine government buses from Karnataka and Kerala are allowed to ply, besides emergency vehicles.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forest (head of forest force) Punati Sridhar told TOI that they have made it clear that the status quo will be maintained in the larger interest of the wildlife. 
 
 “While Tamil Nadu officials supported Karnataka, Kerala officials wanted the ban to be either relaxed or lifted. However, what we had on Tuesday was a preliminary meeting on directions from the Supreme Court which is hearing a related case. A final call on the night ban issue will be taken by the SC after it goes through the proceedings of this meeting,” he added.
 
 Sridhar said they also explained how the lifting of the night ban can pose problems to both humans and wildlife. “Wild animals need some peace at night as during the day they are already disturbed by movement of vehicles. Also, since the roads see frequent movement of elephants, there’s risk for vehicles and commuters as well,” he added.
 
 Officials from transport departments from states and the central government were also present. 
 
 Sources in the Karnataka forest department said the state’s officials didn’t agree with another proposal of Kerala to allow a convoy of 10 to 20 vehicles at one go during midnight or relax the ban duration. 
 
 Vatal barges into meeting 
 
 The inter-state meeting at Aranya Bhavan, Malleswaram, on Tuesday witnessed some dramatic moments when Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj barged into the venue around 11am, asking that Karnataka should not yield to lobbying by the Kerala government.
 
 Karnataka officials, who were taken aback, calmed Vatal down, assuring him that they would make their stand clear at the meeting and convinced him to leave the venue.
 
 Vatal, who is also a former   of Chamarajanagar, the district under which Bandipur falls in, said he along with environmentalists will protest on Bandipur highway. He also expressed his support to wildlife volunteers who had gathered in front of the Bhavan waving placards opposing the lifting of night traffic ban. 
 
  G N, a retired banker, said Bandipur Tiger Reserve is already facing the pressure of vehicles, especially during weekends due to influx of visitors. “Lifting of the ban will only worsen the situation. In fact, like in Nagarahole, where even government buses are not allowed at night, there should be a complete ban on night traffic in Bandipur too,” he added.
 
 D Rajkumar of the Wildlife Conservation Foundation said Kerala has been making the same demands for years. “We all know that they are not feasible. Now, the Supreme Court has to take a call to put an end to the issue,” he added.
 
 
