NEW DELHI: Former world cup winning India opener   believes that the absence of regular South Africa captain   from the rest of the ODI series tilts the balance heavily in India's favour and  's men should have no problem in sealing a 5-1 series win.

 
 
 
 In his column for TOI, Srikkanth wrote, "If the absence of AB de Villiers hurt the hosts, then the non-availability of Faf du Plessis, makes this almost a no-contest. From the start of the Test series I have found their bowling unit to be decent at best."
 
 India romped home to a facile six-wicket win in the series opener in Durban where captain Kohli struck a century, trumping his South African counterpart's effort. Thanks to Du Plessis' 120, South Africa posted 269 but India were able to chase down the target with ease. "It turned out to be far easier than expected for India in the first One-dayer, and I don’t see things getting any different in the remaining five games. If the score-line is not 5-1, India would have done something wrong," Du Plessis wrote.
 
 He praised the India spin duo of Kuldeep Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal who applied the squeeze in the middle overs and thus restricted the hosts from getting to a strong total. Together, they bowled 20 overs for 79 runs and five wickets. "India did well by fielding two wrist spinners. It is a risk worth taking as they are wicket-taking options. With Chahal and Kuldeep displaying excellent control, the pressure on the batsmen is always on and that is one of the reasons why they are extremely successful as a pair," Srikkanth, who played 43 Tests and 146 ODIs for India, wrote.
 
 He also lauded Kohli who scored his 33rd century in ODIs and a record-extending 18th in successful chases. "A sub-par target and an in-form Virat Kohli meant only one result from the word go. What continues to impress me is Kohli’s easy approach to batting, especially in chases. There is not a moment when he forces himself to bat out of his zone. I have never seen a batsman play only proper cricket shots and come out successful even when up against tough targets," the 58-year-old observed.
 
 Srikkanth is confident that India will be able to dominate themselves in the second ODI scheduled for Sunday against a team who, after pocketing the preceding three-Test series 2-1, are being exposed brutally in the ODIs. "In the shorter format, they [South Africa] are being exposed brutally. This is easily one of the weakest South African attacks and the Indian batsmen should have a field day. In all probability, India should have their way in the second match as well," he wrote.
 
 
