Expressing pain and grief over the death of Dinesh, PMK youth wing president   Ramadoss blamed the boy’s father Madasamy’s addiction to alcohol as the reason for the family’s sufferings. But he maintained that Madasamy alone cannot be blamed for the incident and flayed the state government for opening liquor outlets in every street.

 Anbumani claimed that in this fashion the state government has ruined lakhs of families across the state. He said that the government should give a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to the boy’s family. Stating that the death of the boy would turn into a movement against alcohol, he hoped that the incident will touch the conscience of those in power. But he said that suicide is not a solution.
 
 He recalled PMK’s legal fight for six years that resulted in the closure of nearby 90,000 liquor outlets across national and state highways across India, including 3,321 in Tamil Nadu. "The state government is busy relocating the shops to residential areas and also fought a legal battle to reopen the outlets that were closed near the highways," he said and added that PMK is continuing its legal battle for the closure of the outlets.
 
 Making an appeal to the government to shut down the liquor outlets across the state, he said that people attached to DMK and other opposition parties should close their distilleries without playing the blame game.
 
 Meanwhile, MDMK general secretary Vaiko said in   on Tuesday that the state government should at least listen to the long pending demand of the people of Tamil Nadu to close down the entire   outlets and bars. He said there is an increase in the number of crimes in the state. "Since liquor consumption is destroying lakhs of families, there is no safety for women. Even teenage girls are not spared. All because of liquor," he said.
 
 The student, who is  , might have undergone unexplained ordeal as his father was a drunkard. Opposing NEET examination and the way the CBSE authorities are allotting examination centres even in outside of the state, Vaiko slammed the officials concerned for not issuing any order till now about the change of centres even after the court’s instruction. He urged Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who is in Delhi, to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to take the issue with him and get a solution for the benefit of the students who were waiting for the examination, he added.
 
 President of the Tirunelveli Corporation unit of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee K Sankarapandian said the government should kick start a total prohibition by closing down the Tasmac outlets in Reddiyapatti, the native place of the boy. "The shop in the locality is selling liquor worth Rs 1.25 lakh a day. Most of the customers are daily wage labourers," he said.
 
 
