JOHANNESBURG: While questions remain to be asked of India’s batting and fielding efforts in South Africa so far, their bowling attack will certainly return from here with a great degree of confidence. To pick 20 wickets in each Test match and bring the team back into the game in sessions when the balance seemed to have shifted away has been the only heartening takeaway for this side.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Ravi Shastri, the coach of the Indian team, is the first to admit that the batsmen’s inability to score runs alone has cost them heavily in the first two Tests.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 “I would say our bowlers did a great job. I mean no one expected our bowlers to fire the way they did and take 20 wickets. So I’d rather harp on that because for me that’s the biggest positive that has come out of this tour,” Shastri said after India’s practice session at the Wanderers here on Monday. In saying so, he added that not putting runs on board alone turned out to be India’s bane.
 
 “We go in with five batsmen and an allrounder, so it means that responsibility on both sides’ top order is that much more,” he said.
 
 “We (India) had chances in both the Test matches but didn’t make the most of it. The pitch that we played on was the same for both the sides. They picked 20 wickets and so did we. Now, if our top order can (could) fire, it would make for a more competitive Test match,” said the coach.
 
 When asked whether going to South Africa earlier would have helped the team prepare better, Shastri said: “There was a thought (to send the Test specialists early) but then you are disjointed. Even as a team you are disjointed. Who is going to handle things here? Those thoughts can be put out in hindsight. But, in hindsight, I would say the best thing would be to reach there two weeks earlier.”
 
 Cheteshwar Pujara’s run-outs came in as a shocker for a side that was looking at the Saurashtra batsman to anchor India’s innings. Shastri and the team management, knowing the batsman’s affinity for longer formats, continue to have immense belief in him but they also acknowledge that school-boy errors need to be rectified.
 
 “It hurts a lot (run-outs). As it is, the conditions are very tough, and on top of that if someone gets run out then you feel bad. And you hope that those mistakes don’t happen again because at times they are schoolboy errors,” he said.
 
 The coach also gave an indication that  , the team’s vice-captain, would feature in the Wanderers Test, likely in place of   whose selection over Rahane led to a lot of chatter. However, Shastri does not believe that Sharma’s selection over Rahane was an incorrect one.
 
 “If Ajinkya had played first, and not done well, you would have asked me the same question, why hasn’t Rohit played (given his current form). Rohit played, he didn’t do well. Now you are asking me Ajinkya didn’t play. The same would have happened with the fast bowlers. So, when you have choices, the team management has discussed the best options. They stick by it, they go by it,” said Shastri.
 
 On constant tinkering with the combination, he said: “Overseas, you go on current form and you go on conditions and you see which player can adapt to certain conditions quicker than the other,” Shastri said.
 
