Kolkata: Delhi is keeping a close watch on the developments in Dhaka following the arrest of Khaleda Zia in a corruption case on Thursday. With political instability in the neighbourhood, India doesn’t want to step into Bangladesh’s internal affairs, knowing full well that China too is keeping tabs on the developing scenario. 

 In July 2008, the Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) had filed the graft case accusing Khaleda and her son Tarique Rahman, along with four others, for misappropriating over Taka 2.1 crore foreign aid meant for orphans run by Zia Orphanage Trust. 
 
 On Thursday, a Dhaka court sentenced Bangladesh Nationalist Party chief and opposition leader Khaleda to five years’ in jail and ordered 10-years terms for Rahman and the four others. 
 
 With polls in Bangladesh due in end-2018 and uncertainty over Khaleda’s participation in it — as rules debar Khaleda from contesting for being jailed for five years — this is surely going to be a major political gain for the ruling Awami League, which is also not in a comfortable position. 
 
 However, the Indian foreign office is unwilling to comment on the issue. A former Indian high commissioner to Dhaka said it was a tricky situation as Khaleda was arrested for corruption, while Sheikh Hasina, the Bangladesh Prime Minister, is a known ally of India. “India does not interfere in the internal affairs of neighbouring countries, but Delhi is observing if BNP and Jamaat can create trouble now,” the diplomat said.
 
 He added that though Khaleda might not be able to contest but her party BNP will contest, unlike in 2014 when it boycotted the elections. “Now, India needs to plan for signing the Teesta water sharing pact, as this is a long-standing demand of Bangladesh, particularly from the Sheikh Hasina government.” 
 
 However, Tarique Rahman, senior vice president of BNP, in a social media post from the UK on Thursday, gave a call for jihad for Islam. “Rajpath kapate neme asun, Islamer pokhe jihad korbo (Join us on the roads to join jihad for Islam),” he wrote.
 
 This is what has got India annoyed. BNP sources said Khaleda is expected to apply for bail and get it by Sunday after which they will decide their plan of action. 
 
 Rahman added, “Without any proof, just for political vendetta, Khaleda Zia had been jailed for five years as per the directives of Sheikh Hasina. We will appeal against this order.” 
 
 Khaleda’s counsel and Bangladesh Supreme Court Bar Association President Zainul Abedin hoped that if there is a stay by the high court on the verdict, Khaleda could then contest elections. 
 
 Awami has appealed to people not to indulge in violence. There were reports of unrest while Khaleda was on way to the court as stones and bombs were hurled allegedly by BNP supporters and police were also attacked. The cops opened fire in quell the violence, in which at least one BNP supporter died. 
 
 However, senior Bangladesh officials said there was no major violence and police had been posted at all sensitive locations.
 
 
