Chandigarh: From making a list of all the important formulae to spending time exploring frequently asked questions, and remembering chemical reactions by writing are some of the tips that the city-based teachers are giving to their students so that they can score better in chemistry. The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) is all set to hold   exam for class XII (Indian School Certificate) students on March 5. There are only two schools in Chandigarh that offer ISC under CISCE.

 As per the teachers, the students should not only focus on making a list of all the important formulae but also gather a detailed understanding of how those formulae work.
 
 “For physical chemistry, practice lots of formula-based questions and keep revising them to retain better. Practice given at the end of the chapters and from previous years’ question papers,” said Ambika Sharma, a chemistry teacher from Strawberry Field’s High School.
 
 She said that since there was still more than a week left before the final exam, the students should solve at least one sample paper based on the topics they had learned.
 
 “Solving sample papers would give an idea of the grey areas and would help improve,” Ambika added.
 
 The teachers from the city said that for organic chemistry one should make a list of all the reactions that are in syllabus and revise them regularly by writing.
 
 “In inorganic chemistry, it’s tough to rote ‘p-block and d-block elements’ quickly, it would be ideal to make short notes of these chapters and study from notes before the examination,” the teachers said.
 
 They added that the students should solve a lot of reasoning questions from ‘p-block elements’ and practice structure of compounds like acids of phosphorous and sulphur, interhalogen compounds, xenon compounds, etc. as they are often asked.
 
 “Inorganic chemistry should be read regularly and in a very discrete manner,” the teachers pointed out.
 
 Dos and DON’Ts
 
 Ø For physical chemistry: Make sure to excel in modules like the Raoult’s law, adsorption isotherms, Nernst equation, colligative properties, molar mass determination, rate law equations, density of a unit cell, packing fraction as they are crucial and asked frequently in ISC board examination.
 
 Ø For organic chemistry: Reactions like Aldol condensation, Sandmeyer reaction, Cannizaro reaction, Benzoin condensation, Clemmenson reduction, Wolff-kishner reduction, Williamson synthesis, Hell- Volhard-Zelinsky are some of the imperative things that are asked time and again.
 
 Ø Memorise all reactions properly as these can be used to solve the conversion problems. Questions on conversions are always important and are most likely to be asked. Practice such questions by writing the starting compound and final compound. This will make your process of solving the questions easy.
 
 Ø Make a list of all the distinction tests for various functional groups. The distinction tests are commonly asked between the aromatic and aliphatic compounds.
 
 Ø In inorganic chemistry, it’s tough to rote ‘p-block and d-block’ elements. Hence, it would be ideal to make short notes of these chapters and study from notes before the exam.
 
 Ø The last three chapters -- biomolecules, polymers and chemistry in everyday life -- should not be missed as they constitute 6-8 marks. Students often take these chapters lightly, which takes a toll on their final score.
 
 Ø Solve one sample paper every day. It would not only help in managing time better but also give an idea about the questions that should be solved first.
 
 Ø During the exam, write descriptive answers in points. For long answer questions, frame a skeleton of the answer first and then write. Be crisp and to the point for short answer questions.
 
 Ø Do not start a new topic at the last minute. Rather revise the topics, which you already know.
 
 Ø If you tend to forget the learned topics do not take stress. It happens with every student. Just keep revising the learned topics. This would definitely help you in securing good marks in the subject.
 
 
