NEW DELHI: The situation was back to normal at Terminal 3 of   on Friday, a day after hundreds of   got misplaced following the detection of a large number of power banks in flyers’ check-in luggage. 

 While no power bank was found on Friday, the airport operator said it would keep issuing advisories over the next few days for the passengers as well as the airlines to avoid any such incident in future.
 
 The GMR-led Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) attributed the chaos to a sudden spike in the number of prohibited items in check-in baggage, saying the rate was nearly 30% higher than usual. Sources, however, said the checking process had been made more stringent after a flyer on a Hyderabad-bound Vistara   last week belatedly remembered that he had left a power bank in his check-in baggage, forcing its return.
 
 A DIAL spokesperson said, “Due to the onset of the holiday weekend, there was a steep rise in the passenger footfall, which resulted in an increased level of dangerous goods, particularly power banks and lighters, in check-in luggage.” This impacted the baggage handling processing as the owner of each suspect baggage was called and the prohibited item was removed, he said, adding that the flight operations have become fully normal since Thursday night.
  
  
 In an advisory on Twitter on Friday, DIAL said it would make use of airport screens, standees and its website to inform passengers about prohibited items and ask them not to pack them in their check-in luggage to avoid any inconvenience.
 
 “We are coordinating with the airline community to proactively inform the passengers at the time of the flight booking and while preparing for the journey,” said the spokesperson. As per Dangerous Goods Regulations and   (BCAS) requirements, prohibited items such as power banks, lighters, e-cigarettes and dried coconut shells are not allowed in check-in baggage at any Indian airport to avoid any incident of fire. 
 
 The airlines said passengers might not be fully aware about the prohibited items. The problem is compounded, a source said, when they are carrying multiple electronic items. “Some passengers forget about their power banks. In case of a holiday trip, passengers often don’t remember if they have kept an electronic item in their check-in baggage, which gets flagged during screening and causes a delay”. 
 
 IndiGo said in such a case, the passenger was informed and asked to come back to remove the item. In case of a  , both SMS and call alerts are sent by the airline while passengers can get refreshments and use the lounge. SpiceJet said it also followed the same BCAS protocol. 
 
 Airlines also make passengers sign an undertaking for such items and the bag may be held back if a prohibited item is found while the passenger has already boarded.
 
 DIAL officials said that following the partial terminal shift of IndiGo and SpiceJet, the operations at both T1 and T2 had been smooth over the past one week.
 
 
