LUCKNOW: To deter the practice of triple talaq, the   ( ) is all set to introduce a new provision in its model nikahnama in which the man has to commit that he will not give   (instant dovorce), a spokesman of the Board said here.

 The development comes at a time when the government is making a strong pitch for the passage of bill that criminalises triple talaq, a Muslim way of divorce which is still in practice despite the   striking it down in August last year, in the ongoing Budget Session of Parliament.
 
 The AIMPLB has maintained that it against the practice of triple talaq, but it has opposed the proposed legislation saying it is an interference in Muslim personal law. The Board has, however, faced criticism for failing to bring reforms in personal laws.
 
 "Yes... we are making a provision in the model nikahnama (Islamic marriage contract) in which there will be column - 'I will not give triple talaq'. Once during nikah (marriage) this column is ticked, one will not be able to give triple talaq," AIMPLB spokesman   told PTI here.
 
 He said that a detailed discussion on the matter will be held at AIMPLB meeting in Hyderabad from February 9.
 
 Besides other social issues, the two-day annual general meeting of the Board is likely to deliberate on developments in the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid case.
 
 The Board is also likely to finalise its roadmap for the coming year.
 
 "In this meeting, the campaign being run against social evils such as triple talaq and dowry will be reviewed. The AIMPLB feels that without social awareness, no system in the country can succeed.
 
 "The Board is running a big campaign in the country. The messengers of the Board will reach every madrassa and mosque and tell people to stay away from social evils like dowry and triple talaq," he said.
 
 A progress report will also be sought on the work done and based on this, a plan for the next year will be prepared, he said.
 
 "Since, the cases of triple talaq happen generally among the less educated, the Board will work hard in rural areas. Students and teachers of madrassas will be included as messengers.
 
 "Their main job will be to spread the message about evils of dowry and triple talaq. If the need for divorce arises, then one should first contact and consult a cleric and stay away from triple talaq," Nomani said.
 
 The spokesperson said that this campaign had gained momentum in the past one year.
 
