JAIPUR: On Tuesday, as union minister of state for personnel   clarified that there was no need for Aadhaar verification for retired Central government servants to draw pension, there was relief for over 60 lakh pensioners drawing a minimum of Rs 9,000 per month as pension. In  , however, old age and widow pensioners have been facing deprivation of their much more modest pension amounts because of mandatory Aadhaar. 

 In Bhoyal gram panchayat of   block of Baran district, Arjeneya, Surti and Gyarsi, old women who had been drawing pension for several years from the state government, said they had not received their pension in several months. All of these women receive old age pensions.
 
 In 2017, the state hiked widow pensions for old women – widows over 60 years of age would draw Rs 1000 as pension, doubled from the previous Rs 500 a month, and widows over 75 years of age would get Rs 1,500 a month. However, since old age and widow pensions were earlier the same amounts, there were several widows receiving the old age pension who could not avail the higher pension amount. Social activists had drawn attention to this anomaly.
 
 Firoz Khan, social activist who regularly travels in Shahabad block, said that others from the village too were attempting to restore the pension payments of these three elderly women. “Arjeneya is partially blind and deaf. All three women cannot easily move about, so going to the bank is hard. Despite that, they have made several rounds of the bank, only to be informed that the biometrics do not match that of the records.”
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate   said the pension is being deposited into accounts, but these women are not able to access it because of the biometric verification problem. “This problem can be sorted out with the intervention of the bank manager,” he said. 
 
 However, activist   said, “It is not a problem with these women alone. The Atal Sewa Kendras in villages was meant to serve these old women who cannot go about 25 km away to the nearest bank. However, the e-mitras in these Kendras do not release pension without Aadhaar verification. There is need for a system which allows these women to get their pension after entries in a register. The technology does not work with old, shrivelled fingers whose prints have been worn down with age and work.”
 
 
