Trichy: An exclusive training programme on occupational safety for industrial workers was conducted for contractual labourers working in all sectors falling under Trichy region. Since the labourers were identified by the state industrial safety department as most prone to accidents resulting in casualties, the programme focused on mandatory usage of safety gears to prevent injuries and deaths in industries. Organised jointly by the directorate of industrial safety and health and national safety council - Tamil Nadu chapter, as many as 250 labourers from more than eight districts falling under Trichy region attended the programme held here on Friday. In a recent analysis by the state industrial safety department, officials said that about 90% of casualties in industrial accidents were contractual labourers. While the regular labourers employed in industries were equipped with basic training on industrial safety, contractual labourers involved in risky tasks were not given equal opportunity such as adequate training on occupational safety. “Hazardous tasks in industries such as cement manufacturing and fabrication units were carried out with the help of contractual labourers. As they have very limited awareness about occupational safety while handling materials, accidents occur and at times result in casualty,” a senior official with the directorate of industrial safety and health department told TOI. During the day-long event, a guidance book mentioning the importance of industrial safety was launched by K Kaliannan, director of the department, Chennai. Sessions on mandatory wearing of personal protective equipment (PPE) during work hours such as safety helmets, shoes and hand gloves were explained by the experts from the department. Even though Tamil Nadu compared to its counterparts across the country had been recording minimal accidents according to officials, it is said that the objective of the training programme was to sustain a safe work place for contractual labourers. A training session aimed at imparting awareness on safety protocols for workforce in small and medium scale enterprises to ensure maximum safety of workers was also conducted insisting mid-level employees to ensure adherence of workforce in wearing safety gears.