NAGPUR: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar is not just an idol for the Dalits, but the whole nation which comprises people belonging to different castes. It’s evident from the fact, that Ambedkar managed to pen down a flawless constitution which does not hurt any religious sentiment and is in favour of every single citizen. This was the consensus of among the speakers who attended the 127th birth anniversary celebrations of the legendary leader in a lecture series on ‘Role of BR Ambedkar in the formation of egalitarian society’.

 The event was organized by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Sanyukt Nagari Jayanti Samiti at   on Saturday and was attended by thousands of Ambedkarites. A number of eminent personalities irrespective of their caste joined hands in the celebrations.
 
 Shubhangini Raje Gaekwad of Baroda’s royal family, who is also the chancellor of  , was the chief guest of the function. Popular television anchor and senior journalist, Urmilesh Singh from Delhi and history scholar Gangadhar Banbare from Pune were the keynotes speakers and won accolades for the thought-provoking and impactful words of wisdom.
 
 “It is so difficult to find the essential literary works of Ambedkar in the market and this is not merely a coincidence. Instead, this is a planned conspiracy to deprive us of the knowledge and message that Ambedkar had to share with us. In the present scenario where nuisance is taking place in the name of religion, if theories of Ambedkar are put into practice, our country will prosper by leaps and bound,” said Urmilesh.
 
 Urmilesh added, “Lighting a candle or garlanding Ambedkar’s portrait will be of no use if his teachings are forgotten. You must get your hands on the books written by him to broaden your horizon and instill his values among your children. This will help in maintaining harmony and unity in diversity.”
 
 “Nagpur is a land of two completely different ideologies,” Urmilesh said pointing out   (RSS) and Ambedkarite school of thoughts. He urged the gathering to stop viewing India as a nation based on a specific religion’s beliefs as it will only divide and tear the nation apart.
 
 
