BHUBANESWAR: The   ( ) has earmarked Rs 26.57 crore in its draft budget to cover the city with energy efficient LED street lights by the end of 2018-19 financial year. 

 New areas where roads have been built recently, villages that have been included in BMC areas and streets which still have traditional lighting arrangements will be covered with LED lights, an official said. 
 
 The BMC at present has 67 wards, up from the 60 it had before the 2014 municipal corporation election. The new wards have many villages where street lights, solid waste management and drains are yet to come up. 
 
 Out of the total budget outlay of Rs 430 crore, Rs 67 crore will be spent on sanitation management. It is the major share of the budget with increasing requirement of waste collection, disposal and processing, the official added. The draft budget has also laid emphasis on slum and backward area development and has made provisions for allotting more funds to localities like Pandra, Nakhara, Haridaspur and Subiddhipur. 
 
 "There is an increase of Rs 36 crore over last year's budget. We have targeted a surplus revenue of Rs 93 crore as we hope to generate around Rs 137.30 crore from own sources like holding tax, advertisement licence, parking fee, trade licence and other services," BMC mayor   said.
 
 "The BMC's priority to develop new parks, new community centres, public toilets, slaughter house and new drains and roads is reflected in the draft budget. The draft budget is likely to be approved within a month after discussion with corporators," standing committee chairman (finance) Sk   said. 
 
 In a new initiative, the BMC will spend nearly Rs 48 crore from its own coffers for construction of concrete roads while allotting Rs 30 crore for repair and construction of new drains. 
 
 The BMC in October had decided to allot additional aid of Rs 30 lakh to underdeveloped wards, which comes under its jurisdiction. The wards were identified by a committee on the basis of indicators of backwardness.
 
 
