HYDERABAD: A controversy has erupted over the installation of statues on the   at Ramanthapur lake after GHMC officials objected to the move.

 Soon after statues of Mahatma Gandhi, B R Ambedkar, Babu Jagjeevan Ram, Bharatmata, Swamy Vivekananda, and   were installed on the Mini Tank Bund, the GHMC filed a police complaint stating that the statues have been put up without permission. In response, several caste welfare associations supported by BJP workers staged a protest and took out a rally in Ramanthapur last Monday.
 
 Uppal BJP MLA NVSS Prabhakar, who is supporting the installation of statues on the Mini Tank Bund, alleged that the GHMC has been allowing statutes on the roads, but stopping the statues on the lake bund in order to help a few people who have staked claim on the lake for their plots.
 
 MLA NVSS Prabhakar told TOI: “There are already seven statutes. The local welfare associations want to set up two more statutes, that of   and Dr C Narayana Reddy, but officials are not allowing it. The lake and lake bund are filled with debris and people are openly defecating there. It has been almost turned into a mini dump yard. It is the locals and BJP workers who are cleaning it up. Some people have put up stones on the lake bed and are claiming this to be their plots. We suspect a nexus between GHMC officials and locals who are creating hurdles to the installation of statues.”
 
 The lake is spread over 18 acres and irrigation department said maintenance of the lake rests with the GHMC. Uppal deputy municipal commissioner Dr Yadagiri Rao said, “On April 12, after the IPL match, some people claimed that they have put up some statues. We immediately filed a police complaint against unidentified persons as we were not sure who installed them. The Uppal MLA later called up and said the statues were put up by some dalit associations. Where is the need to install the statues overnight? There is a   ruling that statutes shall be installed only with the permission of the collector and in urban areas with the permission of the council. However, these people did not take any permission and the land is under dispute.” He added, “ We are trying to negotiate with the locals to compensate them and take over the land for developing the lake and we have written to the police asking them to stop further installation of statutes.”
 
