NAGPUR: Major traffic chaos ensued outside an   exam centre in Hudkeshwar on Wednesday morning as over 1,500 students converged at the centre within a short span of time. 

 The narrow adjoining bylines combined with an usually busy route created traffic snarls around St. Paul’s Junior College, which could ultimately be managed only after the intervention of city traffic cops. 
 
 The college has the highest enrolment in Nagpur city in STD XII according to the education department. 
 
 TOI had reported on Wednesday itself that centres with high student density will face traffic challenges which are being compounded because of road construction work that’s in full sway. 
 
 A college staffer blamed haphazard parking by parents for the mess. “Traffic police restricted four wheelers from entering college’s parking to ensure smooth flow of vehicles. So parents started parking alongside the approach road thus blocking traffic,” he said. No student reported late for the exam. 
 
 Many questioned the need for putting over 1,500 students in a single centre, especially where the approach road too is not wide.  , a junior college teacher, said, “The board should have divided the number of students in nearby colleges. Fortunately the traffic chaos did not result in any student to missing the exam.” 
 
 But for board officials, the number of students at a centre is dictated by a preset formula and St.Paul’s extremely high student enrolment leaves official with little choice. 
 
 Shriram Chavhan, divisional secretary of the board, said, “Over 1,500 students from the college have been allotted various centres and hence we have to ensure that the same number of students get St. Paul’s as a centre.” 
 
 Residents in the adjoining area say that though on exam day the traffic problem is profound, it’s not something new.  , owner of a general store, said, “I am watching this from last two years and nothing has changed. During college days it is a major problem for all of us.” 
 
 Rahul Shah, who lives nearby and uses the road frequently, said, “This is the situation during exams every time. The traffic is blocked and I usually avoid using the roads with colleges during this time.”
 
 There were traffic snarls reported from other centres as well, especially those that were near metro construction sites. An education official however said the two cannot be connected. “Even in places where there is no construction you will find traffic problems. This happens because within a short span of time all candidates reach the spot and it’s an annual thing,” said the official.
 
 
