Q. Are there scars in your soul? Those we can’t see…

 Of course, we all have soul scars but they are like medals won in a battle. Your mind, your inner being can carry a lot of scars based on your experiences... on how hard you fought and hit back. Whether you were scarred or left others scarred. It all depends on how you went through life.
 
 
 Q. Do soul scars ever heal?
 
 There’s no need to heal them. They are medals that you wear with happiness. The more medals you have, the more equipped you are to deal with life.
 
 Q. Challenges seem to attract you on screen and off it too…
 
 I like to do extraordinary things. I’m 30 and at this stage, it’s important I invest my time in doing things that are extraordinary. I’ve done a lot of frivolous stuff through my teens. I might continue to do that knowingly or unknowingly in the future. We’re artistes, we entertain but eventually there has to be meaning to the entertainment.
 
 Q. There was time when you self-confessedly did few films just for money…
 
 (Grins) I do all films for money. The perception that I don’t work for money is untrue. Of what use is name and fame if you’re not financially secure. I’d rather sit at home, cook my favourite meal and spend time with people I like. But when I’m out there in a worker’s capacity, if I dedicate my youth and my time to do a certain job, I want to be part of the earnings, the profits. I’m clear about that.
 
 Q. Did you face any negative incident as a beginner?
 
 When I started out, yes, I used to get hit upon a lot. There was no end to how many men wanted to take me out, married, unmarried, older, younger... But it wasn’t any different when I was in Delhi and struggling as a model or when I was a student.
 
 And when men face rejection they do get bitter about it and the work environment becomes difficult. And if you end up sleeping with colleagues
 
 then it gets more complicated. (Smiles) The mating game is the same everywhere. But I did encounter unfortunate incidents where a certain person forced himself or subjected me to extreme physical abuse but it was not in the professional space. It was not like I was working on a film or that he was my co-star. So I don’t know if I can associate that with the film industry.
 
 Q. How can a girl protect herself in this industry?
 
 Even now I get to hear horrible incidents about people taking advantage of girls everywhere. You’ve got to make sure that you’re safe. People who promise you work, by making you compromise are never going to give you work. I can give that to you in writing. You have to get that straight and not play the blame game. If you cultivate a relationship and then people start favouring you… that is also going to backfire when you want to break free. Remember one thing that someone who can make you, is also the one who can break you. The one who cannot make you, cannot break you.
 
 Q. You have everything in life – success, wealth, fame... What can a man give you?
 
 Well, with a man it’s about partnership when you want to take up on a bigger project like family. I want to have a big family whom you can rely on, you can go back to, you can spend time with, you can share your hard and good times. I’m a believer in that. What a man can add to my life is raise a pack of our own with me. We can have a small world of our own, where we trust and can rely on each other.
 
 Q. Do men get intimidated by you?
 
 Oh yes. They do get intimidated. (Chuckles) It’s not a good thing for me. Trying to look vulnerable, waving my curves like a baby doll doesn’t last for long.
 
 
 Scars are medals you wear with happiness
 
 So if someone is not sure of his sexuality, if he’s not secure in his pants, it doesn’t work for me. I am who I am. I’d rather be with someone who gets turned on by my fearlessness and my wildness as a woman. There are very few wild men who love to play with fire and even fewer who would like to tame the wild beast.
 
 Q. You’ve been through many relationships... what’s the common trait in all men?
 
 The most common trait in men is insecurity. They get insecure of my success and confidence as a person and the fact that I’m also stubborn and headstrong at many levels. And it’s difficult to win an argument with me.
 
 Q. What’s the lure of the married man – even successful and strong   tend to fall for the bait?
 
 Well, you have to add ‘young’ to successful and strong. When you’re young, you tend to believe the sob story of a married man when he tells you ‘my wife beats me’. If a married man, who is persuading me, gets a minute alone with me, he will say, ‘my wife is this evil bitch and I am this poor person’ and how the one who is sitting in front of him is his saviour. Women have to stop falling for this bullshit, this crap. This is not the truth at all. Do you think I’ll buy that now? No way. But I still hear this sob story. I’ve not yet met a happy married man in my life. No matter what the age is. At some point, post 25 years of age, you don’t buy this. But when you’re between 15 and 25, the natural tendency of a young woman is to fall for someone who could be an ‘ideal husband’ forgetting that he’s already a husband.
 
 Q. Are you looking for love?
 
 I’m not looking for love. Because there has never been a day in my life when I haven’t been in love. It’s impossible for an artiste not to be in love… or else you will die. It’s not a choice; rather it’s a necessity for me to be in love all the time.
 
 -Raghuvendra Singh
 
 
