NOIDA: A 35-year-old gangster was killed in an   by Noida STF in   on Friday afternoon, police said. 

 Indrajit Jat, an original resident of Masuri area in  , had a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head. He was also awarded the death sentence for the murder of four women in a dispute over a mango orchard in 2005. 
 
 Abhishek Singh, SSP, UP-STF, said that Indrajit was wanted in over 30 cases like murder and abduction in different parts of UP. On Friday, the police received a tip-off that a gang of criminals was hiding in the jungles of Nunukheda in Muzaffarnagar. “We received information that the criminals were hiding in a sugarcane field. They were planning to conduct some heinous crimes,” he said.
 
 The Noida-STF and local police surrounded the area and asked them to surrender. However, the accused opened fire at police. “The police returned the fire and one accused was hit in his head. He was rushed to a government hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” said an officer. The other accomplices managed to escape.
 
 During the encounter, an STF sub-inspector too was hit but was saved as he was wearing a bulletproof jacket. 
 
 Rajiv Narayan Mishra, additional SP, Noida-STF, said Indrajit was involved in criminal activities for over a decade. In 2004, he had killed his neighbour Sohan Veer over property dispute in Masuri. A year later, he and his gang members killed four women in Ghaziabad on dispute over a mango orchard. 
 
 According to police, Indrajit was sentenced to death by a trial court in these brutal murders. However, the   had granted him relief and he was released on bail. He continued committing crimes during his bail.
 
 In 2008, he killed a man in Baghpat. In 2013, the accused had attacked two police constables – Vishal and Sumit Negi – in Haridwar. Sumit had succumbed to injuries. In 2015, Jarcha police had arrested Indrajit Jat with two accomplices –   and Tillu for some crime. The three criminals had faked their identities in judicial custody. Later, the Ghaziabad police received information about impersonation and contacted Noida police about the matter. However, by that time   was released on bail and was absconding since then.
 
 
