From January 4, the premise of   in Thiruvananthapuram will come alive for the next 10 days as the palace ground will resonate with mellifluous renditions by music prodigies as part of the Swathi Sangeethotsavam.

 The annual music festival is observed as homage to Maharaja Swathi Thirunal Rama Varma. Apart from being a musical extravaganza, the fete also ensures to popularise the compositions of Swathi Thirunal.
 
 Each year the festival witnesses big-wigs as well as upcoming talents, says its organiser  , a successor of Swathi Tirunal and a singer and veena artiste himself. “It has been entertaining the city since 1999. And being the organiser I have always tried to include fresh faces for the event. This is apart from those eminent singers who haven’t participated in the event before and young talents who are sure to keep the tradition of classical music alive. The compositions performed here are strictly based on works by Swathi Thirunal.”
 
 The festival will kick off with a performance by young artiste Palghat R Ramprasad, who would be accompanied by Avaneeswaram S R Vinu on violin, G Babu on mridangam and Perukavu P L Sudheer on ghatam.
 
 The second day will mark the first performance of popular artiste   at the fete also known as  . She will be performing with her daughter Sruti Ravali.
 “Sruti performed well at the national-level competition Naad-Bhed - The Mystery of Sound, which was conducted by Doordarshan, and is now a renowned figure in the classical music arena. My aim was to introduce such music talents who aren’t that familiar and let our audience experience their rich renditions,” he says.
 
 Another such duo who will be performing is S Ashok and M B Hariharan popularly known as  .
 Singer Tamarakkad Govindan Namboodiri will entertain the audience this year too. “The artiste has dedicated his life to nadopasana and it is a rare phenomenon to watch the veteran’s concert as he performs only once or twice a year. He made his debut at the festival last year and conveyed his interest to perform this year too as he said he felt a divine atmosphere when he performed the last time at the mandapam,” says Rama Varma.
 
 The highlight of the fest this year will be the concert by flautist Amith Nadig from Bengaluru on January 9. “It is a percussion concert which is a rare event in the festival. This concert will stand out as Somashekhar Jois will support the flautist through konnakol, an art of performing percussion syllables vocally. Their performance promises to amuse even those who are not well versed with the classical music genre as it is all about just music and rhythms. Somashekshar will render the konnakol for around three hours with Amith,” says Rama Varma.
 
 Meanwhile participants such as singer  , who will be performing ninth time, are excited to be part of it. “It is an honour to get featured in the prolific music event. I also get a chance to experience the performance of veterans of classical music and also learn the rare compositions of the Swathi Tirunal. The audience too come from across the country and even abroad to attend the annual event,” says Amrutha.
 This year, she plans to start her concert Pada Varnam. “It has lyrics for all the swarams. The specialities of Swathi Tirunal Pada Varnams are the beautiful swara aksharams that are embedded,” she says.
 
 The event is open to all music enthusiasts, irrespective of caste, creed or religion, says Rama Varma. “I welcome everyone who loves music to experience classical melodies,” he concludes.
 
