Pune: The ISC results announced on Monday brought cheer to several students with the top three places bagged by 49 students across the country. The first rank was shared by seven students in the country, second by 17 and the third by 25 students. Pianist and history lover, Ritisha Gupta from Pune, who stood second in the country by scoring 99.25%, shared the rank with 16 other students in the standard XII (ISC) examination. She will take up a career in political science.  Ritisha was an arts student studying at The Bishop's School, Camp and is now planning to join Delhi University. Mumbai, too, had its share of toppers—two students each at first, second and third ranks. Abhijan Chakraborty from Smt Lilavatibai Podar High School and Tansa Shah from The Cathedral and John Connon School shared the top position in the country with five others from Lucknow and Kolkata. Ritisha had scored 97% in standard X and studied at The Orchid School and later took admission to The Bishop's School in Camp since it was the only one imparting arts education in that board in Pune. Ritisha said, “It's a great feeling to be number two in the country. I was always interested in arts and history and so I had decided during the later years of school that I would pursue this subject and take it up as a career. Among all the subjects, history is my favourite.” She said she would concentrate on day-to-day teaching in the school and revise the topics at home. Ritisha said, “For a year, I had stopped my piano practice, but I shall soon resume my hobby that I have pursued for so long.” Maithili Vartak scored 97.75% while Mohit Mukherji scored 96.25% from The Bishop's School. All the 257 students from the school who appeared for the standard XII exam passed. Forty-nine students scored above 90%, a statement issued by the school said. From The Hutching's High School and Junior College, Mehek Bhadra scored 91% and Neeta Victor scored 89.5% in the standard XII results to top the commerce and science faculties respectively from their school. (With inputs from Yogita Rao &Vinamrata Borwankar)