Sufism and Bhakti movements have sustained a colossal loss during the colonial era, said author and professor   at the session, ‘Sufi Martyrs of Love’, on the inaugural day of JLF on Thursday.

 He was speaking about the impact of Sufi and Bhakti schools on the Indian subcontinent. Professor Ernst, who was in conversation with  , a Sufi speaker and priest at  , discussed the role of Sufi Islam from 7th century to the British period.
 
 These shrines were seen as a potential gateway for uprisings against colonial powers, the reason why they were systematically weakened or neutralized. “The British always feared the Sufi Dargah, which had large number of followers, as it could cause a problem if their sheikh asked them to take up arms against colonial powers. During the 1857 revolt, Sufis had engaged in military action against the Britishers along with their followers,” said Ernst.
 
 They tried to pacify many Sufis through various means. Shiekh Haider Ali, a Sufi follower, was co-opted by them into a regiment to make them neutral in the war against the British.
 
 Pointing on how the British increased their influence in Sufi shrines by taking control of the legal mechanism, Chishty said that they interfered in ‘Aukaf’ properties by making laws, which are still, at many places, causing tensions. “The colonial powers weakened the Sufi and Bhakti systems which were the torchbearers of the syncretic culture,” said Chishty.
 
 Both the scholars expressed concerns over the declining value system in Sufi orders. Attributing the decline to political dispensations, Ernst said, “Pakistan had promoted the ‘Sipah-e-Sahaba’ which is back-firing on them today.”
 
 Pointing to the corrupt practices by some caretakers of shrines, Ernst said that some shrines were focusing on owning land and collecting rents and forgetting the prime purpose of liberating the common man.
 
 “A ray of hope is that people believe in the poetry of   and some shrines are doing immense philanthropic work by opening colleges for girls and the medical college,” said Ernst.
 
 
