More than 100 nature enthusiasts came together as one on Sunday to fight threats to water bodies in the city. The decision to join hands came after an NGOs faced a threat from a  . They held a meeting on the bunds of the Singanallur lake and discussed ways to fight such threats. Many environmentalists recounted how politicians and goons have stopped their social work and threatened them. Vowing to continue their fight to protect the water body, the 100-odd environmentalists planted 500 saplings on the banks of the lake on Sunday.

 R Raveendran, secretary of the   of Coimbatore, said they did not want a confrontation. "We will hold talks with them and try to make them a part of the conservation efforts. We will gain nothing by making enemies," he said.
 
  of   said that when he was clearing the Athupalam canal with volunteers, several   and DMK ward secretaries came to the spot and threatened to protest. Many of them were fishing contractors. They would send men and threaten us. "We are here to help in conservation efforts as we have a passion for nature. We will not personally gain anything by clearing garbage or planting trees. This is for the community. So people need to understand and cooperate with us. In the past few decades various politicians have encroached on revenue and lake land. They also use encroachers for vote bank politics. So the entire conservation purpose gets defeated," he said.
 
 Some environmentalists said that sometimes even bureaucrats posed hurdles. "Many officials do not give us permission to conduct study or research work as they fear they will stand exposed if we find out details," said an environmentalist.
 
 Senior scientists said they had nothing personal. "We are not here to create controversy or problems. We are here to help the future generations to enjoy nature at its best. So we will continue our work irrespective of challenges and try to make the miscreants and violators a part of our efforts instead of treating them as enemies," said a scientist.
 
 
