PATNA: Amid attempts to gain political mileage over increasing the amount of ex gratia payment to the kin of martyred CRPF constable Mohammad Mojahid Khan, principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani said everything was done according to the rulebook and no   has been made in the case.

 According to state government rules, family members of any Army, Air Force or Navy personnel killed-in-action (KIA) are paid an ex gratia of Rs11 lakh while under the same conditions, family members of paramilitary personnel are given an ex gratia of Rs5 lakh. As CRPF is a paramilitary force, Rs5 lakh ex gratia was paid to to Mojahid’s family.
 
 “I will appeal to the martyr’s family to accept the cheque for Rs5 lakh given to them by the state government as no further steps can be taken beyond that. No discrimination was made to the martyr’s family,” Subhani said, adding officials requested the family twice to accept the amount.
 
 Subhani said the martyr’s family would also get insurance amount and several other benefits according to the central government rules valid for CRPF. Mojahid’s elder brother Imtiaz Khan had rejected the cheque on Wednesday saying his brother laid down his life for the nation and did not die after drinking liquor. He had demanded Rs11 lakh as ex gratia payment on the lines of Army jawans.
 
 Sources said CRPF DG R R Bhatnagar is also in touch with the state government to resolve the issue as soon as possible.
 
 However, it is not the first time that the family members of a martyr refused the ex gratia payment by the state government. On September 20, 2016, Sangeeta Devi, wife of Army havildar Ashok Singh, had refused the ex gratia payment of Rs5 lakh. Ashok, along with S K Vidyarthi of Gaya and S   of Kaimur were also martyred and the ex gratia amount was increased to Rs11 lakh after Sangeeta’s refusal. Later, on November 8, 2016, government took policy decision to pay ex gratia of Rs11 lakh to the next of kin of the martyrs of the all the three armed forces.
 
 But   head constable   of East Champaran, a paramilitary personnel, was paid Rs11 lakh as ex gratia by the state government after his martyrdom in ceasefire violation on LOC on October 27, 2016.
 
 Mojahid, who was part of the quick reaction team (QRT), succumbed to bullet injuries he had received in the gunbattle with Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists who had attacked the 49th battalion camp of CRPF at   near Srinagar on January 12. Mojahid was laid to rest with full police honours at his native place Piro in Bhojpur district on January 14.
 
 
