INDORE: Emerging victorious, senior advocate   was elected as president of Indore district court bar association. This time, the elections were held as per one bar one vote principle. Manish Sankhla was elected as secretary.

 Ritesh Inani and   were elected on the post of vice president and joint secretary respectively. Celebrations ensued at high court premises till night as all the results were announced by 9pm.
 
 The votes for post of vice president were recounted as the total votes were more than the number of voters in the first round of counting.
 
 In the first one bar one vote elections, voting percentage was 84.8 per cent as 958 people out of the total 1129 voters cast their votes for the elections. 
 
 The voting began at 12 noon amidst usual hearing of cases at high court, and continued till 5pm. Tents and water facility was set up outside the court and special barricading was done for the voter’s queue. Despite being Saturday, the court was functional to compensate for local holiday declared on Rang Panchmi day. 
 
 “The voting went smoothly. The bar association members have recorded highest participation in the elections,” assistant election officer   said.
 
 The vote counting began around 6:30pm and since the beginning the presidential race was inclining in favor of Patwardhan beating opponents Raghvendra Singh Bais and Suraj Sharma. Patwardhan beat close opponent Suraj Sharma by a margin of 71 votes. 
 
 For the post of vice president, the competition was fierce till the last moment as   and Ritesh Inani were neck to neck in the number of votes. Also, the number of votes counted exceeded the total number of voters, as a result of which recounting was done. 
 
 Following the recount, Ritesh Inani emerged victorious, beating Amar Singh Rathore by a margin of five votes. 
 
 Secretary Manish Sankhla secured 306 votes followed by   the former secretary of the bar who got 259 votes. Shalabh Sharma won the joint secretary race with a safe margin of 149 votes. 
 
 The five posts of executive body member were bagged by
 
 
