THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state's Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission will give special focus on six new destinations and develop nine model villages across the state this fiscal. 

 
 Besides implementing RT classification for properties and services and launching a minimum of 20 experiential tour packages, the mission will also initiate various other measures to spread RT concepts.
 
 The government has accorded administrative sanction for release of Rs 3.25 crore for implementation of various components, which also include formation of 150 'tourism special gramasabhas' in selected panchayats for tourism resource mapping. In total, Rs 4.95 crore has been allocated for RT Mission for 2018-19. 
 
 The new destinations to be developed are Dharmadom, Poovar, Fort Kochi, Varkala, Muhamma and Alappuzha, which will add to the existing seven RT destinations - Kumarakom, Thekkady, Vythiri, Ambalavayal, Bakel, Kumbalangi and Kovalam.
 
 "The government's decision was to develop 11 more RT destinations and we have selected six locations to be developed in the first phase," RT Mission co-ordinator K   told TOI.
 
 Nine villages in Malabar region-Valiyaparamba, Kolthuruthy, Pamburuthy, Malapattom, Thekkumpattu, Ezhom, Cheruthuruthy, Peruvembu and   have been identified as 'model RT villages'.
 
 Accessible tourism programmes, carbon-neutral initiatives, promotion of 'water outlets', responsible ayurveda and proper waste management, among other things, will be initiated in these places," Rupeshkumar said.
 
  
 
 
  Another major initiative this year will be a comprehensive study on tourists' safety in various destinations. "The mission has already recruited 750 RT resource persons and training is being imparted to them. The study will be carried out by these resource persons and a report will be submitted by July-end," the RT Mission coordinator said. 
 
 The year will also witness launch of the Kerala RT network, an online platform to connect big and small tourism ventures (to help property owners procure products including agricultural produces, handicrafts, souvenirs, paper and cloth bags, handloom and other value-added products online), besides an online human resource directory and an art and cultural forum to meet the industry requirements.
 
 The mission's 'Clean Vembanadu' initiative will continue in   and will be launched at Kumarakom too this year. Besides, the PEPPER (People's Participation for Planning and Empowerment through Responsible Tourism) project will be expanded to two more panchayats in Vaikom (where it has already been launched) and to 12 new locations in other districts.
 
 Bringing all accommodation units including resorts, homestays and houseboats, tour operators and other tourism services under RT classification was a major proposal in the RT policy. Set to be classified this year, the properties and services will be linked to various subsidy schemes, for which guidelines are being prepared.
 
