KOLKATA: A 10-year-old girl, studying in Class IV of an English medium school in eastern suburban Kolkata, was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 27-year-old youth. The incident was reported from an affluent   on the morning of the Republic Day when the survivor was returning home from school after attending a programme. The cops, though, claimed that the girl was alone at home as her mother had gone out for work. The suspect then allegedly entered her residence and sexually abused her.

 Her cries alerted locals who rushed to an abandoned garage and caught the youth red-handed. The Phoolbagan police have arrested the suspect and slapped section 7 and 8 of the Pocso Act, along with IPC sections 354 (sexual harassment), 354D (stalking), 448 (house trespassing), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 509 (insulting modesty of woman), on him. The incident has sent shockwaves across the neighbourhood. Binit Gupta, the suspect and a resident of the Kankurgachi pos toffice area, was produced at the special Pocso Court.
 
 According to a local source, the girl was returning home from school after attending the Republic Day function on Friday when Gupta accosted her outside her residence. He then offered her a candy and asked her to follow him to a dark alley and finally an abandoned garage located nearby.
 
 As the suspect tried to sexually assault the girl, she raised an alarm and several locals rushed to her rescue. As the neighbours caught hold of Gupta, the girl — sobbing inconsolably — tried to explain how the incident took place. The suspect was later handed over to the Phoolbagan police. “We heard cries of help and found the suspect inside the garage. The girl was crying when we reached the spot. I cannot imagine that children so small are also falling prey to  ,” said a witness.
 
 Police said that the girl’s confidential statement will be recorded before a magistrate soon. A medical test too has been conducted on her. A decision on whether to conduct a Test Identification (TI) parade of the suspect too will be taken.
 
