THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   on Monday decided to move the high court for a CBI probe into the murder of   leader   in   on February 13. It also decided to take over the Congress agitation on the matter.

 
 The UDF decision came after CM Pinarayi Vijayan ruled out a CBI probe. Congress leaders K Sudhakaran, Dean Kuriakose and C R Mahesh decided to endtheir fast following the decision. Earlier in the day, several Youth Congress activists were injured in a lathicharge during a protest march in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
  
  
 
 The state government has ruled out the possibility of a CBI probe into the murder of Youth Congress activist Shuhaib in Kannur. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in the assembly on Monday that the police probe was on the right track and all those related to the murder will be nabbed. “The question was whether the probe has begun in earnest or not. All those who have directly taken part in the incident have been taken to custody. So, there is no question of a CBI probe under the circumstances,” Vijayan said.
 
 
 Seeking a leave for adjournment motion, Congress MLA Sunny Joseph said the heinous crime that shook the conscience of the state must be probed in such a way that those who committed the crime as well as those who orchestrated it should be booked.
 
 The chief minister, who condemned the murder in his speech, said difference of opinion in political outlook must not end up in physical attacks and that it cannot be accepted. The government was committed to acting against the culprits, he added.
 
 However, the CM provoked the opposition by listing out details of party men who have been killed in Kannur and mentioned the attacks on CPM leaders, including the attack on E P Jayarajan MLA. He said Congress leader K Sudhakaran who has been observing a fast unto death in protest against Shuhaib’s murder, was also involved in many of these attacks. The opposition countered the CM’s allegations by producing an even longer list of Congress activists who have been killed in Kannur at the hands of CPM activists.
 
 Opposition leader   said the chief minister has backed out of the promise given by law minister A K Balan who had held a peace talk in Kannur at the behest of the government. “The minister had said that the government was ready for any probe by any agency. The police have not yet probed the possibility of involvement of those who have been convicted in TP Chandrasekharan murder case and were out on parole. They have also not recovered the weapons used for murder. Moreover, though it was an offence punishable under the provisions of the UAPA Act, it has not been invoked,” he said.
 
 Earlier, the question hour had to be suspended after the opposition interrupted the business of the house over the issue. The heated exchange of words and shouting of slogans over the murder ended up in ruckus in the assembly that ultimately forced speaker P Sreeramakrishnan to rush through the proceedings and adjourn the assembly for the day.
 
