MUMBAI: A ballet dancer’s life is said to be a tragically short one. For a generation,   was a walking goddess. The former   Ballet etoile joined the company at 16, and was quickly singled out for promotion and praise. In 2013, she stepped down. An injury prompted Paris Opera’s star danseur   to end his career three years ago. Letestu and Pech were all of 42 when they took their farewell bow, the average retirement age for ballet dancers.

 Yet on another level the ballet dancer’s life can be remarkably long when they simply superannuate to experiment with a new kind of language. Far from retiring altogether and with fighting levels of fitness and energy, Letestu, now 48 and Pech, now 45, are a part of an incredible cast of etoiles, principal dancers and stars of three famed ballet companies—Paris Opera,   and Madrid CND—that will come together in Mumbai on Saturday at the   to stage the  , a tribute to Paris and its artistes. The performance is part of  , a four-month-long voyage across India celebrating Indo-French partnership amid performances, debates, seminars and exhibitions. Often referred to as The City of Light, Paris is also the city of ballet where the dance form was born, courtesy of Louis XIV, four centuries ago. Saturday’s show will traverse different ages and styles to celebrate that legacy starting with seminal ballets of the 19th century to a more contemporary repertoire spanning composers, choreographers, dancers and themes from Petipa and Piaf to Bizet and Prévert.
 
 “It’s a really Parisian programme that will show the progression of the French classical ballet since ‘Giselle’ and ‘La Sylphide’ to more contemporary pieces like ‘Non Rien De Rien’ and ‘Le Parc’ created recently by French choreographers Ivan Favier and Angelin Preljocaj. We will pass through more exotic pieces like Bayadère and Don Quichotte, and more neo classical pieces as ‘Les Enfants du Paradis’ and Renaissance,” says Letestu, grand dame of the Paris Opera. 
 
 In the beginning, the show’s artistic   had contemplated collaboration with Indian artistes. “I wanted to bring La Bayadere which is all about India with colours, energy, and myths about the land but it was too complicated,” he admits.
 
 The fact that almost all the dancers are cornerstones of their ballet companies contributes to an unusual diversity within the uniformity of their flair. “Great classical pieces told in neo classical or contemporary dance language express viewpoints that are not old fashioned but can concern younger generations too,” says Letestu.
 
 The secret to keeping it alive lies in the efforts to modernise the ballet repertoire that continues to draw young Parisians and prods older dancers to engage in artistic challenges, adds Fontan. “It never stopped mixing new influences, new music and other cultures...That is also the purpose of this show. Using same old creative and athletic techniques you can have a very romantic repertoire style like ‘Giselle’ and a very sensual contemporary style like Le Parc or a neo-ballet tribute to baroque like Renaissance,” says Fontan, who believes that ballet has never been as modern and powerful as it is today. “You have some dancers who are like rock stars like Sylvie Guillem dancing to a full stadium, Sergei Polunin whose video on YouTube hit millions of views, or Roberto Bolle whose dance show was granted prime time slot on an Italian TV channel.”
 
 But while big and small screens are bringing in newer audiences like it did for Letestu, given her work in movies like Swan Lake and Cinderella, stories revealing dark cliches can ruffle feathers like Darren Aronofsky’s Black Swan did when it released in 2010. “Black Swan is a wonderful movie, but total fantasy. People thought ballet was only about fight, pain, craziness... but no. We have a normal life as an artist and athlete and must lead very balanced lives to continue performing at that level.”
 
 
