MUMBAI: Did Farid Tanasha’s growing clout in his master Chhota Rajan’s stronghold lead to his murder? There are plausible theories, but the motive will be legally clear when the reasoned judgement for the conviction of 11 men is out.

 More than two reasons were floated for his murder. The prosecution said that a builder of a redevelopment project sought to eliminate him with the help of gangster Bharat Nepali (reportedly killed in 2011 in Bangkok), as he (Tanasha) supported the Chembur housing society’s members, who had approached him for protection. The other reason, as suggested by sources, is that Tanasha was becoming too big for his boots, prompting his rivals within the Rajan gang—Vijay Shetty and Nepali—to kill him. Sources said Shetty and Nepali believed Rajan had side-tracked them and by giving too much importance to Tanasha. A source said the two also thought that Tanasha had secret links with Rajan’s rival Chhota Shakeel.
 
 ACP Sripad Kale, retired ACP Arun Chavan and inspector  , members of the police team which cracked the case, said Tanasha’s murder was among the “most dreadful” of all.
 
 The police said Nepali and Shetty contacted Jafar Alam Khan, alias Abbas, a gangster from UP who was arrested in the 2006 Kalaghoda shootout case. 
 
 He, in turn, recruited Mohammed Sakib Khan—one of the two hitmen—who was with him in Arthur Road Jail in 2008. Sakib was wanted for firing at controversial builder   and Pune Shiv Sena corporator Ajay Bhosle in 2009.
 
 It was a phone conversation between Jafar and   that led the police to track Jafar down in MP, where, in a dramatic turn of events, he flung his phone, which a paan-beedi shop owner found and handed to the police after Shetty called again. The police were tracking Jafar as he was in direct contact with Shetty, said prosecutor Raja Thakare. Jafar’s arrest helped the police crack the case. It led to Sakib’s arrest. Jafar played the crucial role of arranging for the two hitmen from UP and also in helping transfer money from his and his wife’s bank accounts to the assailants.
 
