GREATER NOIDA: The   will invest Rs 5,000 crore to set up a world-class university in a 300-acre land in the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority ( ) area and a state-of-the-art multi-model logistics park across 1,500 acres near the proposed airport at Jewar. 
 
 An MoU for the same was signed at the recently concluded Uttar Pradesh Investors’ Summit 2018 in Lucknow, Authority officials told TOI on Wednesday. 
  
 “While the university is likely to commence operations from 2021, the logistics park will become functional by 2019. Both the big-ticket projects are likely to generate a direct employment for 5,000 individuals and create indirect jobs for more than 20,000 others,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida. 
  
 Officials said the multi-model logistics park will consist of an inland container depot (ICD) and a private freight terminal (PFT). “This will have warehouse and cold storage facilities, including container racks and air strips. We are in the process of creating a land bank required by the group,” the CEO said. 
  
 Promising to stand with the leadership in transforming the state, Gautam Adani of the group committed an   of Rs 35,000 crore in UP during the Summit. 
  
 “The   is strategically positioned with its accessibility, location and several upcoming projects, including the proposed airport at Jewar, east/west freight corridor, railway stations, etc,” said an official from the Adani group. 
  
 Confirming the investment, the official said, “We will have a meeting on March 5 to take the proposal further with the UP government and start the procedure for land allotment. We will commence and complete the projects in a time-bound manner as soon as we have the land. The investment for the two projects will be about Rs 2,500 crore, excluding the land cost.” 
  
 Yeida officials also said they have been directed to expedite the allotment of land to prospective investors. “We have been asked to collect 10% of land cost as application money and detailed project report from the prospective investors within a week,” Singh said. “Due diligence will be applied besides scrutinising financials of investors before land is allotted. We will fast-track applications for investors to set up shop in our area,” he promised. 
  
 Yeida had during the Summit signed MoUs with a total of 28 investors for Rs 10,074 crore. “All applications are being evaluated by a committee set up for the purpose,” Singh added. 
  
  
