Mohali: A 35-year-old man abducted the seven-year-old daughter of his neighbour and kept her in a small carton for about 24 hours. He tried to sexually assault her too.

 Fearing the girl might raise the alarm, the accused heavily sedated her and also taped her mouth. Her parents and neighbours found her inside the carton kept behind an LPG cylinder in the kitchen of the accused after searching for a day.
 
 
  
 
 The accused was handed over to the police and booked under charges of abduction and various sections of the POCSO Act, said SHO inspector  . “The child was terrified. She was found in a semi-conscious state trapped in a carton behind an LPG cylinder with her mouth taped. We have arrested the accused,” the SHO said, adding that the police were yet to get her medically examined. 
 
 
  
 
 The SHO said head constable   helped in the rescue operation and made the accused confess the crime. Residents told the TOI that some boys of the locality saw the accused giving the child Rs 10 to buy spring rolls around 11am on Wednesday. She went to buy the snack and gave it to the accused. He allegedly spiked the rolls and served her.
 
 
  
 
 The girl’s mother said, “We had been searching since then. We had moved to the accommodation just four days ago. First we thought she must have lost way home. But ever since we had moved here, I had been noticing the accused talking frequently to my daughter and touching her. 
 
 
  
 
 So I told everyone that I suspected him. I suspect that he has sexually assaulted her too.” She claimed her daughter said there were two men. First, they kept her in a room and then hid her in a carton, taped her mouth and also threatened to slit her throat if she raised the alarm. “She also told me that they had removed her salwar,” the mother added.
 
 The girl’s uncles said the accused had given her a sedative. They alleged, “She said after having spring rolls, she felt drowsy and fell asleep. When she woke up in the evening, she saw the accused with another man who taped her mouth and packed her in a carton. She said the accused touched her private parts.” 
 
 
