MADURAI: Taking suo motu cognisance over the appointment of assistant professors to   in  , a government-aided institution, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday restrained the management from proceeding with appointment process.

 A division bench of justices C T Selvam and A M   took up the issue, when it came across a plea filed by V  . 
 
 It was stated in the plea that there were criminal cases pending against a few functionaries of the college regarding appointment of non-teaching staff to the college by receiving bribe. Subsequently, the college had last year started recruitment process for the post of assistant professor and the principal in it. Against it, a batch of two cases was filed before the high court bench.
 
 The court which heard them, passed order on December 20, last year directing the director of collegiate education and joint director of collegiate education (Madurai) to look into the issue and pass an appropriate order. The court also said that if there is any substance to conduct an inquiry, to proceed further strictly in accordance with law and under the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges (Regulation) Act and Rules framed under it, within six weeks from the receipt of court order copy. 
 
 However, the collegiate education officials are yet to start an inquiry regarding the issue. They have planned to hold meeting to sort out the issue. In the meantime, the college secretary has scheduled an interview on April 4 for the post of assistant professor and also sent interview letters to candidates which is a clear violation of the court’s earlier order. Hence, it was sought to forbear the college management from proceeding with the recruitment process.
 
 When it came up for admission, the petitioner’s side wanted to withdraw the petition by saying that it was filed in the name of the petitioner, mistakenly. But, the court turned down it. It wanted to take the issue as suo motu and issued a direction restraining the college management.
 
 
