 : Five bloated bodies of suspected red   were fished out of a lake near Vontimitta on Kadapa-Tirupati highway in   on Sunday, just 48 hours after a gang allegedly wriggled out of police clutches, metres away from the site. Police said identity or cause of death is not known, but suspect the deceased could be from Tamil Nadu.

 A senior police officer of Kadapa district denied cops chased smugglers, but confirmed routine search operations of vehicles to stop movement of smugglers.
 
 
 Kadapa police shifted the bodies to the government hospital mortuary. The autopsy will ascertain cause of death. While villagers said they spotted seven bodies, police could fish out only five from the lake. Police also recovered bags and belongings from near the lake.
 
 This comes a day after police opened fire in the air to stave off stone- pelting red sanders smugglers deep inside Seshachalam forest in   district. Five smugglers were arrested, while others escaped into the forest
 
 
 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kadapa superintendent of police Babuji Attada said they received information about floating bodies from villagers on Sunday afternoon.
 
 The deceased have not been identified. “We can divulge details after identities are known,” he said.
 
 Asenior AP intelligence official said, “On the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, police tracked down a vehicle carrying red sanders logs. On being intercepted, the smugglers swiftly abandoned the vehicle and fled. The vehicle was shifted to the forest department and there was no encounter. We have to investigate whether the bodies were of red sanders smugglers.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kadapa hospital forensic doctor Prof Anand Kumar said, “After the autopsy on Monday, we will zero in on cause of death. The viscera will be sent for forensic examination to find presence of diatoms.” Villagers, however, said the men are not from surrounding villages, but workers from Tamil Nadu who cut and transport red sanders logs. It’s alleged men are smugglers who drowned while trying to escape a police combing party.
 
 Kadapa SP Babuji said no combing operation had been carried out in the area over the week. Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Operations, Adnan Nayeem Asmi rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation. Later, he issued a press statement, saying they are verifying missing persons cases in adjacent districts. A case has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC. With the help of fishermen, police and fire service personnel are still searching the lake for more bodies.
 
