KOLKATA: The heavily silted Churial Canal is likely to cause widespread waterlogging in   this monsoon. The problem may get compounded by the large stretches on Diamond Harbour Road dug up for   rail construction.

 
 
  
 The problems were discussed at a pre-monsoon meeting at the   headquarters a few days ago. A section of the   sewerage and drainage department officials made it clear that the civic body will not be able to prevent inundation of large areas of Behala such as Silpara, Sakherbazar, Shakuntala Park and areas off James Long Sarani this monsoon. “The heavily damaged sewerage due to Metro rail construction and the lack of dredging of Churial Canal have made these areas vulnerable to waterlogging. We can, at best, give some temporary relief by undertaking a special desilting drive along DH Road,” an official said.
 
 
  
 Some officials are keeping their fingers crossed for large areas off EM Bypass. Some of these areas had gone under water last monsoon because of a defunct drainage system. “We are worried about some areas off EM Bypass such as Mukundapur, Kalikapur, Madurdaha, New Garia, Kasba, Garfa among other areas. In the event of heavy rains there will be large scale waterlogging in these areas. We shall have to drain out the stormwater using submersible pumps,” another official said.
 
 The KMC top brass took up the issue of waterlogging with Metro rail authorities and the state irrigation department. The irrigation department officials who attended the meeting were reminded of a Rs 5-crore special fund that was allotted for dredging some highly silted parts of Churial Canal that carries stormwater from Behala. “We have decided to use machines to desilt some of the clogged sewers over the next month. We shall also keep submersible pumps ready for the worst stretches of Behala,” a civic official said.
 
 However,the officials had a word of hope for some of city’s worst waterlogging-prone areas in north and central Kolkata. “Effective desilting throughout the year has minimized the scope of inundation of most waterlogging-prone areas in north and central Kolkata, including Amherst Street, Sukia Street, College Street, M.G. Road, Camac Street, Wood Street and Theatre Road,” a KMC official said .
 
 
 
