CHENNAI:   and   have announced the launch of the Google   Support Professional Certificate, a program to help those with no prior experience be ready for an entry-level IT support job in eight to 12 months.

 An industry-relevant curriculum, designed to provide a direct path to employment, will allow learners to share their information with a host of top companies looking to hire entry-level support professionals, including Bank of America,  , Sprint, GE Digital, PNC Bank,  , TEKSystems, UPMC, and Google.
 
 “We are proud to partner with Google to offer this certificate that is in line with our vision of making it possible for anyone, anywhere to transform their life with access to the best learning experience. Today, as rapid technological transformation redefines industries and jobs, it is critical to equip people with the skills they need to be job ready - today and in the future. Our collaboration with Google and top employers is designed to provide anyone, regardless of their prior experience or training, with the resources they need to succeed as IT professionals," said Raghav Gupta, India country director, Coursera.
 
 “Finding qualified IT personnel is a challenge many companies face. With 150,000 open roles in IT support, it is one of the fastest growing occupations in the country,” said Ben Fried, vice-president and chief information officer at Google. 
 
 “We developed this curriculum to address this problem head on. We are looking forward to working with Coursera, our nonprofit grantees and participating corporations to create opportunities for thousands of learners,” he said.
 
 Learners in the Google IT Support Professional Certificate are expected to benefit from an engaging online learning experience including the following features:
 
 ● Courses designed and taught by Googlers who are experts in IT support
 
 ● Hands-on labs and widgets so that one can gain troubleshooting experience
 
 ● Intrapersonal “soft skills” guidance that can help one excel in any organisation
 
 ● Ability to learn anytime, anywhere with Coursera’s flexible learning platform and robust mobile app
 
 Registrations for the program opened on January 16. All courses will start on January 23.
 
 
