KOLKATA: Kolkata airport will begin construction of rapid exit taxiways at either ends of primary runway to reduce occupancy of the runway during landings and takeoffs. This will enable Kolkata airport to enhance flight operations by over 40% from a maximum of 35/hour to 50/h. The airport had only in December-end enhanced the capacity from 30/h to 35/h by slashing the distance between incoming flights as they arrive for touchdown.

 
 The urgency to take up the rapid exit taxiways project followed two days of brainstorming and onsite surveys between   ( ) officials and representatives from Copenhagen airport that handles 83 flights/hour with runway constraints similar to Kolkata. Like here where the primary and secondary runways is 282 metres against the requirement of 760 metres for parallel operations, the twin runways at Copenhagen airport also don’t have the requisite separation but they have not only reduced the spacing between flights, the airport has also cut down on runway occupancy time to maximise runway efficiency.
 
 A four-member Danish team led by   has been in Kolkata since Sunday to work on the NaviAir project with AAI officials who have flown in from Delhi.
 
 “There is adequate space to the southern end as well as northern end of the runway to construct rapid exit taxiways. Once they are in place, the runway occupancy time of flights that land will go down from 45-50 seconds at present to around 30 seconds. This will help us reduce the separation between incoming aircraft to pack in more flight operations,” an official who has been involved in operation NaviAir to increase Kolkata airport’s runway efficiency told TOI.
 
 The angle of rapid exit taxiways have to be less than 45° to ensure that planes don’t keel while moving off runway at a speed of 70-80 km/h after landing at 120-140 km/h. “Ideally, the angle should be around 30° and a minimum straight segment of 75 metres before the plane can take sharp turn into another taxiway,” the official said.
 
 Though a rapid exit taxiway was built at the southern end of Kolkata airport’s primary runway nearly a decade ago, it was never completed. While exiting the main runway at the desired angle, it does not have the minimum 75 metres straight line.
 
 Once the occupancy time of flights reduces, air traffic management team at Kolkata airport will return to drawing board and calculate how much separation can they reduce between incoming flights. In Copenhagen, the separation maintained is 3 nautical miles, half of Kolkata. They have achieved it with use of high-precision radar called Precision Runway Monitor that scans the sky at the rate of one per second, allowing monitoring of approach corridors with great accuracy.
 
