Hyderabad: He hailed from a colony in New Delhi which was the address to many a die-hard comrades and she came from West Bengal, the bastion of the Left movement. Understandbly then that the ‘coupleprenuers’ Prashant Lingam and Aruna Kappagantula ‘left’ the prospects of a comfortable life to help bamboo artisans flourish in the country.

 The journey started in 2006 with the newly-wed couple’s quest for that perfect eco-friendly furniture. Their inquisitiveness took them to a tiny town tucked away in the Indo-Bangladesh border in Tripura — Katlamara, known for fine craftmanship in bamboo furniture and also home to several bamboo species. Although their craftsmanship was matchless, there were not many patrons. The lack of market connect and little awareness about bamboo furniture only made things tough for artisans. The couple tried to be that bridge connecting the ‘makers’ to the ‘takers’.
 
 “We brought material worth Rs 1.5 lakh to Hyderabad to build furniture. Sadly, when it had actually landed, the material got damaged due to the climatic conditions here. Clearly, we had little or no understanding of bamboo. For two years, we travelled across the length and breadth of the country to understand bamboo, climatic conditions that best suits bamboo, its longevity etc,” says Prashant Lingam.
 
 Armed with the knowledge gathered from artisans across the country, the couple ventured into the business of bamboo. In 2006, their baby ‘Bamboo House India’ was born at their home in Uppal. The duo started off with just three artisans from Adilabad. Since then, it’s a world of bamboo and today there are 15,000 artisans. The going, however, wasn’t easy like most startups. Regulatory hurdles and logistic hiccups ‘bamboozled’ the couple. “While the orders were few and far between, it would take us months to season the bamboo and more than 20 days to make a piece of bamboo furniture. The margins were not at all that impressive and in the end the artisans were not gaining much,” Aruna adds. While some were reluctant to buy bamboo as it was a ‘poor man’s timber’ others doubted its durability. 
 
 “At one point, debts piled up. We stared at a debt of Rs 60 lakh and were hardly making any money,” says Prashant. Between 2009-11, things only got tougher for the couple. While Prashant met with an accident, Aruna was pregnant leaving no time for their first child -  . “It was difficult to make ends meet. I slipped into depression that had an emotional bearing on my wife. We were desperate to do something else with our business. Then we dabbled in making furniture out of scrap –mainly tyres and drums,” adds Prashant. The business was put in the backburner as it made no money. “Even two square meals a day was difficult. It was that bad,” recalls Prashant. 
 
 Things changed for better in 2013-14 when the couple took to building structures from engineered bamboo or bamboo plywood. “The time consumed for making bamboo furniture or proper structures like house is almost the same, but the margins are better in structures,” he adds. There are twin advantage of a bamboo house — it’s cooler and portable, informs Aruna. The temperature in bamboo houses is easily 2-3 degrees cooler vis-a-vis outside temperature, Aruna points out.
 
 “What changed our business was a project to build a bamboo structure on a school terrace in Ramanthapur. It also changed the way people viewed bamboo. There was this ‘wow’ factor. People started noticing the bamboo structure on the school terrace. Orders started pouring in, including some from corporate houses. We even did a project for the US embassy office in Hyderabad,” she adds. The poor man’s timber has now become a fashion statement. “Today, we are in a comfortable place. We have at least one bamboo project on hand each week. The demand is mostly from hotels, private farm houses and yoga centers,” beams Aruna. 
 
 From stumbling steps of a child just learning how to walk, Bamboo House India today has matured. “Today, our work generates 15,000 jobs at the back-end. We are blessed to have two two children in our lives- our eight-year-old daughter Tanya and Bamboo House. What also gives us immense happiness is when we make a small difference in the lives of several artisans,” a proud Aruna signs off.
 
 
