THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A   for police officers on how to conduct themselves while dealing with the public was launched in all police districts on Tuesday as advised by the state police chief   District police chiefs imparted one-hour training to all police officials under their jurisdiction on the code of conduct to be followed during vehicle checking.

 The training included tips on handling real-life situations and guidelines specified in the circulars regarding vehicle checking. It included situations when the police conducts checking for helmet-less riding of twowheelers, speeding etc. The training will be conducted periodically, police sources said.
 
 Thiruvananthapuram DCP (Law and Order) G Jayadev, who along with city police commissioner   led the session in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday said, they stressed the need to preserve the sense of duty even when faced with personal problems. “Even if we are under tremendous mental pressure owing to some personal issue, we should take care not to vent our frustration on public. 
 
 They may be wrong at times. But, we shouldn’t misbehave”, he said. Jayadev asked the officers to use the scientific tools with them, like body cam and mobile phones, to record the wrongdoings of people whom they encounter. The cops were asked not to follow any motorist who refuse to stop the vehicle for checking. Instead, the number of vehicle should be noted and the registered owner can be summoned.
 
 In November last year, the state police had organized a stress-buster workshop for sub-inspectors and circle inspectors, in the wake of suicide of 16 policemen last year. Ironically, a police official who recently openly posted in his social media account about the mental stress that the police faces, was transferred from his post to another location, reportedly due to his open comments.
 
 Also, the police are going ahead with the idea of mentor system in the force, and as an initial step,   who have admirable qualities as mentors are being selected. Each mentor will have five to 10 officials, preferably their juniors, under them. They will spend at least half-an-hour every week with the team to discuss problems and issues and give them advice that can boost their morale.
 
