KOLKATA: A day after the Mumbai ATS nabbed LeT operative Faizal Hasan Mirza with the help of Kolkata Police’s  , it is now clear that Indian Mujahideen founder   — who hails from Kolkata — is trying to regroup, said   sources. According to the sleuths, at the moment Amir and his followers are operating from Sharjah and Dubai. So, the police and central security agencies are initiating greater technical surveillance.

 
  
 Cops said they have leads which show the accused Mirza was in touch with Pakistani agency ISI and Amir, who had initially floated an outfit known as the Asif Reza Commando Force to carry out the American Center attack on January 22, 2002.
 
 “Now, we have proof that the entire movement of Faizal was sponsored by Amir. There are at least two more operatives, who are being pushed into India by Amir. What got us to act was the fact that Faizal went to Sharjah and Dubai not through Mumbai, which would have been a much shorter journey. He had travelled from Kolkata. We are co-ordinating with multiple agencies on the same,” claimed a source.
 
 Sources revealed that Mirza was asked to hit a major target and the entire plan was clinical. The logistics were arranged and date and time were also fixed. They had also been identifying several more targets.
 
 Mirza, a 32-year-old electrician and resident of Jogeshwari in north-west Mumbai, was allegedly in touch with LeT members. ATS officials said his association with the terror outfit that carried out the November 26, 2008, attack on Mumbai became stronger when he went to Sharjah and later Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
 
 Kolkata STF officers said that when they were tipped off about his return to India, they put him under surveillance. Once they confirmed his terror plans, the STF alerted Maharashtra ATS, following which the latter’s Juhu unit in Mumbai’s north-west nabbed Mirza from his residence. He was produced in court and remanded in police custody until May 21for questioning by the ATS.
 
 “The surveillance has sbeen on for some time on Reza and his associates. We are hoping to pick up some more LeT men and sympathizers in a few days,” claimed a source.
 
