Mumbai: The silver lining in the   is the 32% growth in loans to   in the sub-Rs 10-lakh segment in 2017. The sector is getting more credit after a new law post-demonetisation barred cash transactions and introduction of   forced businesses to formally report all sales. With only five million of the total 50 million small businesses in the country availing credit, this is likely to be the next big sector for lenders.

 The first comprehensive report on credit to small businesses in India was released on Monday by the   ( ) and  . The report, which analyses repayment behaviour of all five million small businesses that have availed formal loans, shows that micro, small and medium enterprises ( ) have much lower   (NPA) rates (8-12%) than large (16%) or mid corporates (15%). Specifically, MSMEs with exposure between Rs 10 lakh-5 crore have among the lowest delinquency rates.
 
 “This report has been created to provide data on small industries in a structured form to policymakers and lenders for intervention,” said Mohammed Mustafa, chairman, SIDBI. “There are many states which have a large number of MSMEs, but credit is not available to them. Policy intervention is required because there are still 45 million MSMEs without access to credit,” he added. An interesting insight from the report is that as against Rs 77,000 crore of reported NPAs, there is Rs 8,000 crore of stressed loans and Rs 26,000 crore of loans where borrowers have been irregular in their repayments. This indicates that the stress in the sector is not fully recognised.
 
 “There has been an information asymmetry in this segment. Within the states and industries, quantitative knowledge of what is good and bad is not known to lenders because this kind of data was not hitherto available,” said Satish Pillai, MD & CEO, TU Cibil. Of the overall lending to commercial credit of over Rs 51 lakh crore, micro credit (loans below Rs 1 crore) account for only Rs 3.5 lakh crore, while SME loans (Rs 1-25 crore) add up to Rs 8.2 lakh crore. Within MSMEs, the Rs 10-50 lakh segment is growing at 17.1% and the Rs 50 lakh-1 crore has been growing at 15.6%. According to Pillai, after GST, four-lakh first-time borrowers took loans between July and December 2017. In the preceding six-month, only about 3 lakh new borrowers were added.
 
 “The message for lenders is very clear: Growth is happening in MSME which is also having the lowest NPA. So, focus there,” said Mustafa. According to the report, NPAs are the lowest (8-8.8%) in the micro sector and highest in the mid-corporate to large-corporate segment (13-17%). Construction, auto component, machinery & equipment had lower NPA rates while steel and metals, gems and jewellery, and mining were the most risky.
 
 The report recommends that lenders and credit information companies should be provided access to alternate data such as GST,   ( ) and utility bill payment history to get better credit profiles. It has also called for improving access for small businesses to the RBI’s   ( ) — an online platform to facilitate trade finance. The other suggestions are enabling policies for securitisation of MSME exposures and incentives for geographical credit expansion.
 
 
