JAIPUR: Senior officers of the   commissionerate have put all police stations on alert against betting during the   season and asked them to take steps to prevent the same.

 The SHOs concerned have specifically been asked to keep track of fresh tenants in their police station areas and keep a vigil on suspicious activities.
 
 The order has come just 11 days prior to the first IPL match to be held in Jaipur after a gap of some years.
 
 In 2013, the Mumbai police and the crime branch of the Delhi police had lambasted the   police for inaction over mushrooming betting rackets in the state, especially during IPL matches, after names of two leading jewellers from Jaipur figured in their investigations.
 
 According to sources, senior officers of the commissionerate have told SHOs to continue raids on suspected places where betting rackets are likely to be active.
 
 “Usually, in betting cases, a case under sections of the   is registered. Since it’s a bailable offence, the bookies manage to go scot-free. So, while seizing things like laptops, mobile phones and electronic equipment, the police should explore the possibility of charging cases under sections of the IT Act and IPC, if they apply. People involved in cricket betting carry many cellphones and SIM cards. It should be checked if such SIMs have been taken in the name of people caught or by using fraudulent documents so as to book culprits under sections of the IT Act,” said a senior police officer, who was posted at the Jaipur police commissionerate in 2013 and busted a few rackets.
 
 When contacted, additional commissioner of police (crime) Prafful Kumar said, “Yes, these steps are necessary as deterrence against betting in the city. Special vigil will be kept in areas where incidents were reported in the past. Likewise, local police intelligence will keep track of suspicious activity going on in particular localities.”
 
 In 2013, the Mumbai police had arrested one alleged bookie, identified as Chandresh Jain alias Jupiter, and made several arrests from Bikaner and other parts of Rajasthan.
 
