PANCHKULA: The ‘Khair tree’, which has high demand in market due to its medicinal properties are being unprecedentedly chopped down by the tree mafia in  . In a case registered on Saturday, a pickup utility vehicle driver was arrested for cutting down and transporting ‘Khair trees’ from the ‘Shamlat’ land of Batour village in  . The accused person sped away in the loaded vehicle but was nabbed later on by the cops, a few kilometres away from the village on intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Gram panchayat of the village had filed a complaint with the cops stating that some unknown persons have illicitly taken over a shamlat land and were loading them in the vehicle. When the cops reached the spot, the accused sped away.

 
 Laksham Dass, village sarpanch in his complaint mentioned that the land in question is sub judice as a case of State of   versus   is registered in Panchkula district court over illegal felling of   trees. But, still the situation is same in the area. Acting upon the information given by villagers, a cop PCR arrived at the spot soon after which the accused was nabbed a few kilometers away near an old bridge.
 
 Moreover, he failed to produce any permit when asked to present the licence. The accused, identified as  , a resident of village   has been booked under section 379 (punishment for theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in Chandimandir police station. Rishi Pal, assistant sub-inspector, said, “We have registered a case against the accused driver. We will try to zero down on the gang involved in this illegal activity. Further investigation is under progress.”
 
 In April 2017, Chandimandir cops had busted a gang of Khair thieves from forest area of Morni and seized trees worth crores. The accused tried to burn down the trees to eradicate the evidence but cops managed to thwart his attempt. The raid was conducted by the local cops and forest department officials. The involvement of forest department officials was also find out by the cops at that time.
 
