MYSURU: One of the oldest streets in the city,  , whose quaint houses and leisurely atmosphere are a throwback to another era, is all set for its tryst with modernity. However, this old road is now all set for its tryst with technology – the street will become the first   in the city.

 The overhead cables that dangle from poles, and hang over rooftops on the road are set to become history, in what is being seen as an emulation of the endeavor at   in Bengaluru. After Thyagaraja Road, plans are afoot to implement the project in other parts of   as well. 
 
 The road, which extends from Madhav Rao Circle to the Chamaraja Double Road Junction, will be shorn of wires in the near future. The ugly tangle of wires that strike a dissonant note on the eye, when one scans the road, are all set to go underground. The cables will be placed underground with the help of a specially constructed duct. Besides being more pleasant on the eye, the underground cable network brings down chances of electrocution, particularly when it rains, given the proximity of the wires to the homes.
 
 The 350m-long stretch is also expected to be illuminated by LED lights that is expected to reduce power consumption by 10%.
 
 The initiative was the brainchild of Ward 1 corporator BV Manjunath. Although Manjunath’s original plan was to lay underground cables in some streets as a pilot project, he stumbled upon the idea of turning Thyagaraja Road into a model street along the lines of Vittal Mallya Road in Bengaluru during a meeting with Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC).
 
 The project, which was estimated to cost Rs 55 lakh, received an overwhelmingly positive response from the MCC, which approved it. “While a major portion of the funds have been earmarked for electric work, Rs 15 lakh has been set aside for other civic projects,” Manjunath said.
 
 He added that all cables would be laid underground with feeder along the street. “Each electric pole allows for only five service connections, while as many as 36 connections can be drawn from each feeder box. We will install a total of 16 feeder boxes, and as many lights along the street,” the corporator said.
 
 A beaming Manjunath said that Thyagaraja Road would be wireless in a month. “Work has already started. We have taken measures to avoid digging up of the road for water and other such purposes,” said Manjunath, pointing out that this initiative was the first-of-its-kind in a district after Bengaluru. 
 
 
