CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) students want open house back during the student council elections. This is the condition that the student council members have put forward before the university authorities to introduce paperless elections. In a meeting convened by the dean student welfare ( )   with the   ( ), on Thursday, the student leaders gave their suggestions to replace the use of paper during the elections.

 “If you ban the use of papers in the student council elections, how will you reach students? The alternative that they give you is social media but the reach is not that extensive. However, there is one alternative which can help the student parties campaign, which is bringing back the open house. We have suggested that open house should be brought back if they want to make the student council elections paperless,” said Karan Randhawa, joint secretary of PUCSC. 
 
 The student leaders said the open house helps the students decide how powerful their leader is and how well he/she can take up the students’ issues if elected. The agenda and manifestos of the student parties are clearer when the leaders participate in the open house, said student leaders.
 
 Open house used to be conducted two days before the actual polling date in an open space adjoining the Student Centre in PU. However, it was stopped in 2010 after incidents of brawls. The most-awaited annual event would attract huge number of students where the student parties would highlight their ideology, strengths and the issues it would take up after it comes to power. Violence and presence of outsiders was the reason that the open house was discontinued. 
 
 The university is contemplating to make the student council election paperless after the Punjab and   high court on September 30, 2017, had issued notices to the central government,   ( ) and PU, after taking cognizance of a petition seeking paperless student elections in PU. The petitioner sought directions for holding paperless canvassing in the elections. He also sought directions to ensure PUCSC elections are held without polluting the environment. This year also police had registered over 100 cases under the defacement act.
 
 Among the suggestions, the wardens have suggested that the university radio station should be used for campaigning to minimise the use of papers. Moreover, it is suggested that the departments should display the names of the candidates fielded from their respective departments on the screens so that the student parties do not make use of posters. The university is trying to devise alternate methods for campaigning. It is also planning to install electronic boards which can be used by student parties for the digital posters.
 
 
