done... Nashik: Minister of state for urban development Ranjit Patil on Thursday expressed concern about the sewage and waste management in the city and said that unless these issues were resolved Nashik cannot be a smart city.  Patil took a review of all the state projects here and their funding. He told media persons after a meeting with municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, civic officials and the smart city team that all the pending projects like roads, LED lighting, health, schools, sewage treatment plants, smart city projects, sewage and garbage will be sped up.  “In case of the STPs, unless the sewage and waste management are not planned, then the city cannot be a smart city. Even the Prime Minister has given instructions regarding these issues,” said Patil giving a strong message to get rid of the lacunae in these cases. The minister who also took a review of the staff shortage and vacant posts said, “The chief minister will be taking a decision on the staffing pattern in a few days. That is why I came here to take a review.” He promised that the long-pending issue of staffing pattern would be resolved in a week. About the approved posts, he said those were expected to be filled but even if there was a delay in appointments the work has to be done by the existing staff and it should be done properly.  “I will convey to the government whatever is pending or is delayed and will do whatever is to be done. The municipal commissioner also can fill the posts that are vacant,” Patil said.  The NMC currently has 7,090 posts. According to the staffing pattern, a proposal for 7,656 new posts has been sent to the state government. The proposal was prepared on the basis of the approved posts in groups A and D and also new posts.  Patil also said that the hawkers’ zones would be operational in the city soon. Every part of the city would have no hawking zones and hawking zones. The minister also took a review of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and said that all these projects would be pushed ahead. About parking-related issues, Patil said suggestions could be given on the issue and he would look into the matter. 