KOLKATA : Wary of the quality of chicken sold in local markets following stray reports and rumours about sale of dead chicken after they are dressed and treated in ‘solution’, several households opted for mutton this Sunday, leading to a dip in chicken sales and an almost immediate price correction.

 At New Market, the biggest chicken retail market in the city with daily sales in excess of 30,000 kg, price of both live and dressed chicken have been revised downward by Rs 10 on Monday.
 
  
 “We have been noticing a slight dip in sales through the week. On Friday and Saturday, when sales generally show a peak, it remained static. Of the 12 trucks that arrived in the market on Monday, around four had to be sent back as the slack demand did not infuse confidence,” said New Market Chicken Traders’ Association secretary Shaukat Ali.
 
 While price of live chicken has gone down from Rs 120 per kg a week ago to Rs 100 now, price of dressed chicken has reduced from Rs 180 per kg to Rs 155-160.
 
 Prices could slide even further with   ( ) planning to deploy inspectors at the 46 municipal markets from Tuesday to check the chicken being sold.
 
 The civic health department is also setting up 16 teams of food inspectors for as many boroughs. These teams will visit small eateries and roadside stalls selling chicken items to see if they have been treated with chemical.
 
 “If anyone is guilty of serving poor quality chicken, we will file a case in municipal court and also involve Enforcement Branch to slap cases under the Indian Penal Code,” an official from the department said.
 
 While traders welcome the drive at shops selling cooked chicken, they are afraid such an action in markets selling live chicken will only spook customers further. “As it is, chicken sales has dipped nearly 40% since last year,” said Ali. The quantum of chicken sold in New Market was 50,000 kg per day a year ago. Now it hovers around 30,000 kg.
 
 Wary of the southbound sales and price graph, West Bengal Poultry Federation (WBPF) officials put up a brave face and claimed supply as well as consumption dip around this time of the year was an annual phenomenon as was mortality due to sharp variation in day and night time termperature.
 
 “The difference in temperature at 12am and 12pm is nearly 15°. The birds are susceptible to such extreme variations,” said WBPF chief executive officer BR Das.
 
 Industry sources said sale of dead chicken was not a widely prevelant practice. What is far worse is the injection of high dose of antibiotics. Antibiotics are injected in chicken feed to increase their weight. In the state’s poultry farms, feed conversion ratio or the amount of fodder consumed by chicken to their actual growth is quite high. A chick grows into an adult chicken in just five weeks.
 
 “Antibiotic is what is sustaining the industry. A farmer needs to invest just Rs 70 per chicken, which is sold for around Rs 120. The cost of production would be higher without the antibiotictempered feed that hastens growth,” the source said.
 
 
