KOCHI: Heart attack patients who were provided with quality improvement interventions showed the same results as against those who were given time-tested traditional care by the hospitals in  , said a study.

 Unlike in high-income countries, in Kerala, use of a quality improvement intervention did not reduce the death outcomes, reinfarction, stroke or major bleeding in 30 days after the patient was admitted to a hospital, said the report published in “The Journal of the American Medical Association” on Tuesday. Further research has been recommended to understand the lack of efficacy.
 
 
 “We are surprised with the results and further studies are needed. Probably, no benefit of quality intervention is seen as standards are equally high in usual care. When use of several of the targeted therapies is higher than 95% in the control group, it is difficult to show further improvement with the intervention,” said Dr  , cardiologist, Lisie Hospital.
 
 For quality intervention, the hospitals adapted a tool kit consisting of audit and feedback, checklists, patient education materials and linkage to emergency cardiovascular care and quality improvement training.
 
 “Over the past decade, patients in Kerala, with a higher risk form of heart attack are twice as likely to survive. The survival rate exceeds 95%, which is similar to countries like the  ,” said Dr P P  , director and HOD of cardiology, Westfort Hospital, Thrissur and one of the two principal co-investigators.
 
 For the study, “Effect of a quality improvement intervention on clinical outcomes in patients in India with acute myocardial infarction”, the  , conducted clinical trial between November 10, 2014 and November 9, 2016 in 63 hospitals, including 67% private, 14% government affiliated with medical colleges, and 19% charity institutions. The last date of follow-up was December 31, 2016.
 
 Usual care was provided to 10,066 participants by the hospitals and care using a quality improvement tool kit was given to 11,308 patients. Majority of the participants had the mean age of 60.6, with 76% were men, 31% had a history of tobacco use, and 44% had a history of diabetes mellitus. The results showed that the major adverse cardiovascaular events in the quality intervention group was 5.3 %, while the usual care group recorded 6.4 %. Similarly, the rate of 30-day death was 3.9% in the intervention group compared with 5.1% in the control group, suggesting no major benefit with improved quality intervention.
 
