Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has sanctioned constitution of district-level committees, which will consider applications for   of unauthorized constructions carried out on or before July 31, 2017. 

 There shall be separate committees for municipality/corporation areas and for panchayat areas.
 
 The district committee for municipalities/corporations will include the district town planner; the regional joint director, department of urban affairs; and the secretary of local self-government department. The committee for panchayat areas will include the district town planner, deputy director of panchayats, and the secretary of the local self-government department concerned.
 
 The government has also sanctioned formation of monitoring committees for the supervision of regularization of  . There will be a four-member committee for corporation/municipality areas. It will include the secretary of LSG department (urban) as the chairman, the chief town planner, the chief engineer (LSG department) and the director of urban affairs. 
 
 The monitoring committee for panchayat areas will be headed by the secretary of LSG department (rural). Chief town planner, chief engineer and director of department of panchayats will be the other members. 
 
 The Regularization of Unauthorized Construction Act 2018 came into force in March. Floor area ratio, coverage, setback, parking and access of commercial constructions can be regularized under this act. Fifty per cent of the regularization fee shall have to be paid at the treasury and at the local body office. Violations of paddy wetland norms, environmental rules, coastal regulation zone rules and fire and rescue norms cannot be regularized using this act.
 
 The new rules have categorized unauthorized constructions and for single-family residential buildings between 60sq.m and 300sq.m, the compounding fee varies between Rs 3,000 and Rs 30,000. Deficient car parking fee, which was Rs 5 lakh earlier, has been reduced to Rs 3 lakh in corporation areas.
 
 
