SAMANA (PATIALA): A security guard posted at the main gates of the   on the   road entered the girls’ hostel late Friday night and opened fire at one of the inmates whom he secretly admired.

 The hostel inmate, who is a second-year student of BSc (nursing) in the college, sustained grievous injury on her right cheek and was rushed to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, from where she was referred to PGI, Chandigarh. She is in stable condition and will be operated upon on Monday. 
 
 The accused, Balbir Singh, also shot and injured himself in the leg. He was then overpowered by other inmates of the hostel.
 
 According to the police, the incident took place when  , who was on night duty, along with the accused, went to a nearby fuel station to get diesel for a generator. Balbir took his double-barrel gun along with the bandoleer and entered room number 12, where the victim stayed, and fired at her. Other residents of the hostel said after hearing the shots, they rushed to the victim’s room, where they saw Balbir with the gun. He had already shot himself in the leg. The inmates fearing that he might again reload the gun, overpowered him even as he tried to free himself.
 
 Samana DSP Rajvir Singh Randhawa told newspersons that the victim and the accused were taken to the Government Rajindra Hospital, from where the nursing student was referred to the PGI as her condition was stated to be critical. He said the .12-bore gun used in the crime had been confiscated by the police and the accused had been placed under arrest. 
 
 In her statement to the police, the victim claimed that Balbir had been trying to make advances towards her. He had misbehaved with her on Friday evening after which she complained against him to the college authorities. Later, he entered her room and fired at her. Investigating officer   said that they had registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 458 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint) and 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and under the Arms Act against Balbir of Chaura village in Patiala district. 
 
 Meanwhile, students said they were shocked and demanded more security in the college. The college functionaries could not be contacted for comments.
 
 
