NEW DELHI: At a meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his ministers, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal strongly asserted that “there is no place for violence in a democratic and civilised society” and that “no government can fulfil its promises to the people if the employees feel demoralised and insecure”. For his part, Kejriwal requested the LG’s intervention in asking the bureaucrats to restore normalcy as “governance is suffering”. And in what appeared to be an attempt to buy peace, the CM took to Twitter to say, “All of us need to work together for betterment of Delhi.”

 
  
 
 At the meeting in   on Friday evening, Baijal observed that “steps need to be taken to remove the mistrust between the employees and the elected government so that development of Delhi and public interest do not get adversely affected”.
 
 According to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the CM and the ministers assured that incidents that could affect the functioning of government would not be allowed to take place. “We will do what is required,” Sisodia said, apparently keen to defuse the controversy. “The LG said he would talk to officers and the LG’s assurance makes it appears that there will be no scope for more such incidents.”
 
 On Baijal’s remark that there was no place for violence in a democracy, Sisodia chose to refer to the alleged attack on his cabinet colleague Imran Hussain at the Delhi Secretariat on Tuesday. “Of course, there is no space for violence,” he reiterated. As to whether Kejriwal would apologise to the chief secretary, Sisodia maintained, “The whole incident is being narrated incorrectly. In any case, it is currently a matter of investigation.”
 
 At the meeting, the LG “strongly condemned" the incidents and termed them as "most unfortunate”. In turn, Kejriwal chose to shift the focus from the alleged assault to the aftermath and its impact on governance. He later tweeted, “Officers not attending meetings for last three days. Governance suffering. Im very concerned. LG assured he will take steps to ensure officers started functioning normally. Council of ministers assured him all cooperation. All of us need to work together for betterment of Delhi.”
 
 After the meeting, Sisodia said Kejriwal had highlighted the problems faced by his government following the decision by bureaucrats to boycott meetings with ministers. The LG was given a list of meetings skipped by the babus since Tuesday. The delegation sought to know if such conduct was permissible under the IAS’s conduct rules and, according to sources, sought the LG’s action against all officials boycotting meetings.
 
 Among the missed meetings listed was the one on February 20, where the chief secretaries of Haryana and Delhi were to sort out the issue of ammonia in the water supply from Haryana. While the neighbouring state’s chief secretary reached the capital, Delhi’s top babu was not present. Others included the non-appearance of the chief secretary and two other officials before the Questions and Reference Committee of the Delhi Assembly on Wednesday evening and the absenting of bureaucrats from a meeting convened by Sisodia on Friday noon to discuss land at SKV Daryapur Kalan being used for building colleges.
 
 The list also included the finance secretary’s failure to be present at a meeting related to the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation, while another to discuss the doorstep delivery of ration was boycotted by the officials. There were claims too that when the CM reached the venue to discuss the youth festival organised by the Sahitya Kala Parishad in Connaught Place’s Central Park on Thursday, the secretary concerned was missing.
 
