CHENNAI: The ruling   party is on the verge of forming the much-awaited  , a concept that has been under discussion ever since talks began to merge the Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam factions last year. 

 The development comes in the wake of the Madras high court reserving orders on the ‘disqualification of 18 MLAs’ case and a verdict is expected any time now. An adverse verdict would not only spell trouble for the ruling establishment to remain in power, but also add to the heat already generated by rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran in the party. The move to speed up the process of inducting members into the steering committee comes in the wake of angst among some supporters of OPS over their exclusion in party affairs and governance. 
 
 With just three weeks to mark the completion of six months since the merger, the party’s dual leadership is firming up names to be part of the committee and an announcement is expected any time soon. A high level meeting of the party has been convened for February 2.
 
 According to multiple sources, a 11-member steering committee will be announced soon, with six from the erstwhile EPS camp and five from the OPS side, in addition to the four-member core committee already in place, including OPS as coordinator and EPS as joint coordinator, besides   and  .
 
 “S P Velumani, P Thangamani, D Jayakumar, C V Shanmugham, K A Sengottaiyan and K C Palanisamy are likely to represent the EPS camp, while V Maitreyan, Natham Viswanathan, Manoj Pandian, Raja Kannappan and   are likely to be from the OPS side, barring last minute hitches,” the sources said. A few other names including the likes of C Ponnaiyan or B Valarmathi, who was recently conferred the Periyar Award, were under consideration and could sneak in depending on situation.
 
 “Having taken a firm stand against  , the leadership has been busy identifying supporters of the latter and expelling them from the party over the past month. At the same time, they are also aware of the disgruntled elements in the party, especially after the merger last August. They have to not only placate them, but also strengthen and retain control over the party in the event of the government slipping away from them,” a source, privy to the development, told TOI.
 
 While increasing the number of party districts is one thing they are working on to spread their hold across the state, the formation of the steering committee, to offer collective guidance for the future, has remained a thorn in the party affairs over the past few months.
 
 Ends/dg
 
 
