NEW DELHI: The   today accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of "advising how to make a career of selling 'pakodas' ", even as he looked the other way as "thieves loot and flee the country".

 
 Referring to diamond billionaire and alleged fraudster  , Congress leader   today further accused the government of being perhaps deliberately asleep at the wheel while scamsters upped and fled the country. His mention of 'pakodas' refers to another issue the Congress has been hammering the PM on. Modi said in a TV interview recently that selling 'pakodas' counts as having a job.
 
 Nirav Modi is the prime suspect in a case of alleged embezzlement of as much as Rs 280 crore from   (PNB). The Congress has been hitting hard at the PM, after photographs of the two Modis together in Davos surfaced, following the revelation of the   fraud.
 
 "Why is PM Modi refusing to disclose who all travel with him on official tours? Is this the kind of 'Ease of Doing Business' the PM talks about," asked Sibal.
 
  
  
 
 The Congress alleges the scam flourished under the current government, while the BJP says it began during the earlier Congress-led UPA government. 
 
 "The BJP Govt needs to stop beating around the bush and come clean. Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi scammed the nation right under their noses and yet PM Modi has no answers," tweeted the Congress today, referring also to Nirav's uncle, Mehul Choksi, another accused in the alleged fraud.
 
  
  
 
 Yesterday, the Congress mocked the Modi government by twisting the meaning of one of its schemes called 'Udan'. In the Congress version, 'Udan' means flight. It's also one of the Modi government's flagship schemes to bring air travel to the masses.
 
 "'UDAAN' is the buzzword of Modi Government, wherein every Scamster can 'fleece and fly' - 'unchecked and undetected'," said Congress spokesman RD Surjewala.
 
  
  
 
 Today, as well as over the past two days, the Congress has alleged an even wider scam to do with banks - the "bank loot scam" is what it calls it.
 
 "Has the size of bank loot scam peaked to Rs. 21,306 crore? What is the total loss to Banks? Why is Government mum?", the Congress asked.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
