PATNA: The   on Friday ordered the state government to recommend   (BAS) officer Aditya Narayan Roy for appointment in the   (UPSC) as his name was not sent in 2014 despite seniority and merit.

 The division bench of Justices Ajay Kumar Tripathi and Nilu Agrawal said the state level screening committee would have to recommend within two weeks Roy’s name to the UPSC, which would take a call on within the next six weeks after evaluation and interview.
 
 The court quashed the   (CAT) Patna bench’s order, which had dismissed the petitioner’s application, and said it committed serious error while deciding the case.
 
 Roy’s name, along with Baidyanath Yadav and Ram Prakash Sahni from his department, was also recommended to the UPSC screening committee for selection in 2014. Yadav, now an IAS official, is district magistrate in Supaul.
 
 Roy’s name was recommended to the UPSC in 2013 as well, but a decision could not be taken as its screening committee did not hold a meeting. The court observed that Roy’s name was added to the list in third place from the department after he approached the minister concerned though the department knew that only two names could be recommended.
 
 The court also observed that the petitioner seems to be of outstanding merit as per his service details. Roy was represented by Y V Giri while P K Verma represented the state, K K Jha the UPSC and additional solicitor general S D Sanjay the central government.
 
 The court also questioned the working style of state screening committee comprising chief secretary, board of revenue chairman, development commissioner and general administration department principal secretary, as they had not mentioned in the meeting minutes on what basis they recommended or rejected the names to UPSC for appointment in IAS.
 
 The court directed the state government, especially the general administration department, that all such meetings held by the departmental heads as well as the state screening committee must record in the minutes the reasons behind recommending or rejecting or holding the names.
 
 “Since such state screening committee has absolute power to either make or mar somebody’s future prospects relating to entry of service into the coveted cadre of IAS, the committee has an obligation and duty to reflect in its minutes the reasons why certain names have been recommended and others were not found fit for recommendation,” the court said.
 
 
