 (BARMER): The 9-million tonne   project at Pachpadra will not only be the first integrated facility in the country to be built from the scratch but will also be the first green refinery producing BS-VI specification fuels, said   minister for oil and gas Dharmendra Pradhan.

 “No refinery in the country has been built along with a petrochemical complex from the start. The Rajasthan refinery will be unique in that way. The integrated facility will produce petrol, diesel, kerosene, ingredients required for textile, plastic, chemicals, etc creating a hub of small and big industries,” said Pradhan.
 
 Since the event on Tuesday was christened as the ‘commencement of work’, the construction will start from Wednesday and the joint venture company HPCL Rajasthan Refinery Ltd (HRRL) has already earmarked a corpus of Rs 500 crore to begin the work initially.
 
 “The work will start from Wednesday itself and Rs 500 crore has been earmarked for this purpose,” said Pradhan.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Pradhan has been a key architect of the revised MoU that the state government signed with HPCL in April last year. He also set deadlines for obtaining all the approvals and clearances that the project required.
 
 Even though the current MoU reduced the state government’s annual viability gap funding burden from Rs 3,736 crore to Rs 1,123 crore, chief minister   said, as per the new deal, the project will be technologically superior and the internal rate of return will be 12% as against 6% as per the previous deal.
 
 The most backward region in the state with vast stretches of desert land western Rajasthan burst into prominence after the discovery of oil by Cairn India which currently produces 1.75 lakh barrels of oil per day (bpd). Recently, it has also become a hub for solar and wind energy.
 
 “The region has lot of potential in oil, gas, lignite, solar and wind energy and is poised to attract investments of Rs 1 lakh crore. Cairn India will be investing an additional Rs 37,000 crore to increase its production to 5 bpd. Western Rajasthan will be a new world,” added Pradhan.
 
 Recently in New Delhi, the minister had said that the refinery which requires 1.80 lakh bpd will get 50,000 bpd from Barmer. At present, Cairn India is producing 1.75 lakh bpd 70% of which is lifted by   at   though the pipeline. The rest capacity is supplied to Essar, IOC and others.
 
 The rest capacity will be for the refinery will be met from other sources including imports from global markets, he had said.
 
