MANGALURU: The   gave a big thumbs down to the request by   (Mescom) Ltd seeking Rs 1.23 hike in tariff per unit for  . 

 Mescom had moved   (KERC) seeking hike in tariff citing several reasons including increase in the power purchase cost, inflation, appointment of more staff and variations in other costs. However, at a public consultation meet chaired by KERC chairperson  , members H D Arun Kumar and D B Manival Raju here on Friday, consumers, including farmers opposed the demand made by Mescom and requested the commission not to approve the same. 
 
 Mescom officials pointed out that the projected power purchase cost in 2018-19 has gone up to Rs 2,661.43 crore from Rs 2,553.30 crore in 2017-18. To bridge the gap in projected shortfall in power purchase cost and various other expenses, the Mescom sought the KERC to hike tariff by Rs 1.23 per unit. Former MLA of Thirthahalli Araga Jnanendra, opposing Mescom’s demand to hike the tariff, said the Mescom should ensure uninterrupted power supply in rural areas before seeking hike. “Let the company prepare action plans to reduce the loss rather than thinking of revising the tariff. Further, the process of power purchase in Mescom is not transparent. Let them provide uninterrupted power supply to farmers and set up more sub-stations,” Rajendra said and urged the KERC not to consider Mescom’s demand. 
 
 Another participant Sooryanarayana Udupa said farmers in coastal districts pay electricity bills promptly. Opposing Mescom’s demand, he requested the KERC to look into the alleged misappropriation of subsidy on power tariff allotted to farmers. 
 
 Meanwhile, farmer Parameshwarappa urged the Mescom to ensure quality power supply. He also questioned the very argument made by Mescom to seek tariff hike. “Mescom do not compensate when the pump sets are burnt due to fluctuations in power supply. Our requests to replace old transformers are not considered. I suggest that the tariff should be reduced to prevent power misuse,” he added.
 
 Former president of Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) S S Kamath pointed out that there is no need to hike power tariff at this stage. Advocate Sridhar Prabhu, who represented four of his clients, too argued strongly not to consider Mescom’s demand for tariff hike. Attachments area
 
