KOLKATA: After the Kolkata youth theatre circuit got embroiled in a controversy, a group got in touch with an activist to hold an interactive discussion with members of the theatre fraternity on how to counter   behind the wings. Navamita Chandra, key administrator of Dramatically Correct, has approached activist Pranaadhika Sinha Devburman to conduct this session at Jadavpur University 
 .

 
 According to Pranaadhika, who is the CEO and founder of 1 Million against Child/Adult Sexual Abuse, complaints of sexual harassment within youth theatre groups are not new. “It is common to have exploitation in all fields and complains to not be filed. We are doing this session to increase accountability and encourage survivors to come forward,” said Pranaadhika, who is also the founder of an online campaign titled “Shontu – United Against Online Harassment”. 
 
 Chandra insisted that problems of patriarchal oppression and misogyny have been persistent in a lot of the power structures operational within the theatre circuit. More than a year back, Dramatically Correct had found itself in a controversy when a complaint was raised against a member. According to Chandra, “However, the complainant didn’t want to go to the cops. Despite that, we took measures and staged a play raising this issue. In the middle of the play, we invited the audience to engage in a dialogue on this subject.”
 
 Pranaadhika admits that getting justice in such cases might be “tricky”. “But one can ease the process through appropriate guidance and legal counsel. A complainant should gather evidences and talk to a lawyer before going public with the allegations. Self-care is important while speaking out because one has to be prepared to face a backlash. The accused should also get ample opportunity to provide their account,” she said. She doesn’t rule out the risk of defamation when such controversies hit headlines. “But considering the amount of victim-shaming and blaming that happen, it is highly unlikely for people to come out and level false charges,” Pranaadhika added.
 
 
  event will see participation of various theatre practitioners across Kolkata. Freelance theatre artist Kheya Chattopadhyay, who has worked with Anjan Dutt’s “Galileo”, will be attending the programme. “This is a much-needed event. Opening a dialogue on this issue is very important. Most of the groups face this problem. Earlier, there were few women-centric plays. So, women actors were marginalised. Silencing women has been the norm,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 Abhrajit Bhattacharyya, who is the co-founder of Natakkiya and will be attending the event, said, “Number of young women participants in theatre is dipping rapidly. Safety is one of the prime reasons for this. We are exploring the option of setting up an independent committee where women from all groups can share their grievances without fear of being victimised.”
 
 
