NEW DELHI: The   against whom an   by   for allegedly   and   the  , Ved Kumari, during a dharna in December 2016 were   on March 6.

 The protest was carried out when over 550 students were not granted admit cards or allowed to sit for the exams. A police complaint had been lodged against them then, which was converted to an FIR a few months ago. The students claim that the accusations mentioned in the FIR are false.
 
 In her complaint, Kumari had alleged that protests erupted after a list of students debarred from the exams was put up on the notice board on December 15, 2016. The protesters demanded that the debarred students be allowed to sit for their exams after giving an undertaking. Kumari, however, told them that Bar Council of India rules stipulate that 70% attendance criteria must be met for law students to be eligible for exams.
 
 A video of the protest had gone viral showed former DUSU president and ABVP activist Satender Awana shouting at Kumari in the presence of policemen.
 
 The dean had also alleged that the protesters kept her confined to her office and refused to let her leave till night. She later called an ambulance saying she was “unwell.” She added that while the ambulance was leaving, she heard stones being pelted at it.
 
 The charges levelled by Kumari have been refuted by the students. Accusing her of ordering a lathi charge on “peaceful” students, DUSU general secretary, Mahamedhaa Nagar, said that Kumari had only filed a police complaint “but in 2017, when the HC took the case suo motu, she decided to file an FIR against us.”
 
 Nagar alleged that Kumari used her influence to “falsely accuse students who didn’t do anything to her.” The DUSU secretary, however, agreed that Awana’s language could have been less aggressive.
 
 Another student, Tarun Narang, said that he was there only to convey a message to the dean that the attendance list was not displayed on time. According to BCI norms, students should get an opportunity to improve their attendance.
 
 Narang, currently a practising lawyer, claimed that there are numerous contradictions in Kumari’s chargesheet.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Ved Kumari did not respond to calls.
 
 
