GUWAHATI: The   will set up an exclusive fast track court to try cases of crimes against women and children in each district of the state. 

 "On our request Hon'ble Gauhati HC is going to set up fast track courts for speedy disposal of cases of crime against women. But mere setting up of fast track courts are not enough. SPs of all districts have been directed to prepare timely and foolproof charge sheets," chief minister   tweeted on Wednesday. Sonowal had written to the chief justice of the Gauhati high court seeking fast track courts for day-to-day trial of cases of rape and murder of children and women for early disposal in the aftermath of the gang-rape and murder of a minor in   came to light last month.
 
 Keeping in mind the number of such cases, a high court committee - comprising the chief justice and three other senior-most judges - on Wednesday also decided to designate one additional sessions judge court in each district as a fast track court. "In case of absence of the court of additional sessions judge in a given district, the court of sessions judge will be the fast track court there. After establishment of the exclusive fast track court, these courts will automatically revert to their earlier status," an official statement said.
 
 An administrative committee has also resolved to move the government to create the required infrastructure, posts of judges and supporting staff for the fast track courts.
 
 The committee has further resolved that the three courts of Additional Sessions Judge already earmarked as fast track courts in the   (Metro), Nagaon and   districts would continue to work in the same capacity and the other cases pending in those courts, except the cases relating to rape and murder of women and children, be withdrawn and transferred to other courts forthwith.
 
 "In other words, there shall be two fast track courts in the aforesaid three districts. The three courts will continue to function as such even after establishment of exclusive fast track courts in the said districts as the number of pending cases are high in those districts," the statement added.
 
 
