BENGALURU: A fitter and smarter Bengaluru woke up early on Sunday, and hurried to the start line at Sri Kanteerava Stadium to be a part of the   Bangalore 2018.

 
 For many   who had signed up for the 5.30am race, it was a day of achievement – a day to reap the benefits of months-long  ,   and long runs. In their most trusted attire and pairs of shoes, some even barefoot, the runners radiated great enthusiasm. Some of them were accompanied by family members, who cheered for every runner, young and old.
 
 Even as 10K regulars darted through the humid morning to improve their personal bests, beginners soaked themselves in the excitement and wonder.
 
 Shreesha R, a budding athlete who participated in the Open 10K, said he was more than happy to participate in the event and had been training for more than seven months. Rama P, an athlete, kept panting as she said “she was more than excited to run”. “My entire family of 15 members is running today, it’s an amazing feeling,” said Rama.
 
 The TCS World 10K run also saw participants flying in from places like Mumbai and even France.
 
 A 74-year-old fitness freak flew down from Mumbai only to attend the run. Mahadev Samjiskar, 74, said he had been running since he was 62, and vowed that he would run till his last breath. Another participant from France Laurent Eeckeleers said he was working in Bengaluru for the past one year and this was the first time he ran a 10K in the city. “I just have three words about the 10km run: precise, organised and motivational,” said Laurent.
 
 Over 100 differently-abled people took part in the run with a smile on their face. Sankara Raman, 55, who was born with muscular dystrophy, said he had been participating in the TCS event for the past three years.
 
 A good number of senior citizens too ran on Sunday. “I might not run fast but I enjoy running, it makes me feel so energised,” said Vinayak Rao, a resident of Mahalakshmi Layout. Many senior citizens were supported by their children and their grandchildren.
 
 All fun at majja run
 
 Majja run, where participants could pick a costume of their choice, was a hit as usual. Wearing their creative self on their sleeves, some turned up in green to symbolise the environment while some wore white to promote peace and harmony.
 
 The most unusual costume was probably worn by Raaja who was a keelu kudhurai (a horse costume seen in folk festivals) holding placards protesting “horse trading, votes, and democr a cy”. “It was a bid to protest the horse trading happening in the government today which is basically because of the people who didn’t go out to vote,” said Raaja.
 
 Aruna Madnani ran in a green sari to support the cause of education of rural children. “I am running in a saree to garner more respect for women and to spread awareness about educating the girl child,” said Madnani.
 
 (Inputs from Mrinalini S Bhat)
 
 
 
 
