MARGAO: Margao Municipal Council on Thursday cancelled Saturday’s function called to rename the area opposite the St Sebastian Church,  , Margao as the ‘Chandrakant Keni’ square following local opposition to the move.

 The area is presently called ‘Pandava Copel’. A delegation of locals submitted a memorandum to   chairperson   on Thursday asking that the decision to rename the area be reconsidered. 
 
 A section of Aquem-Margao residents comprising local MMC councillor Avinash Shirodkar, Arthur D’Silva, Dean D’Souza, Rajeev  , Damodar Shirodkar, besides 43 other residents submitted a memorandum to the MMC chairperson Babita Angle Prabhudessai in her chamber on Thursday evening. They sought that the MMC reconsider it’s decision to rename the location opposite the church since it has been historically and popularly known as ‘Pandava Copel’ by the people of Goa due to the presence of the ‘Pandava caves’ in the vicinity and continues as such till date.
 
 Gomes said, “The residents of Aquem and surrounding areas are shocked, disappointed and sad with the absolute insensitivity displayed by the MMC whilst passing a resolution seeking to rename this area as ‘Chandrakant Keni Square.’ We find it inappropriate and improper that a location which was historically known as ‘Pandava Copel’ is suddenly and arbitrarily sought to be named as ‘Chandrakant Keni Square’ and that an individual is sought to be glorified and bestowed prominence in the immediate shadow of one of the oldest and historical churches of Goa. At the outset, we wish to state that we have deep respect and honour for late Keni for his contribution to various social issues in Goa and for being an outstanding citizen. However, we believe that we ought to have been consulted and our views take into consideration before adopting a resolution of such enormous significance and our sentiments have been deeply hurt by the failure of the MMC to do so. Thus, we request you to kindly reconsider the sentiments of the people and take appropriate measures to revoke the resolution passed by the council to name the area in front of the church as ‘Chandrakant Keni Square’ and to refrain from naming the said area as ‘Chandrakant Keni Square.’ The people of Aquem wish that the location continues to be known as ‘Pandava Copel’ in the future and that the area is not named after any particular individual, irrespective of his religion as it is demeaning.”
 
 The local councillor Shirodkar claimed to be ‘misguided’ though the MMC chairperson pointed out that he had proposed the resolution passed at the MMC special meeting held prior to Opinion Poll Day on January 16 to rename the areas near Ravindra Bhavan, Margao and the Aquem church as ‘Opinion Poll Square’ and ‘Chandrakant Keni Square’, respectively. “This proposal was signed by prominent Margao residents, including   considering Keni’s contribution to keeping the Konkani language alive. But in view of the unpleasant situation brewing that could result in unrest and considering public sentiments as well as this petition, the function on February 3 stands cancelled. Since a certain section of society is not in favour, this issue needs to be further deliberated with all sections of society taken into consideration. We need to name various squares/chowks after prominent luminaries/legends in recognition of their contribution ad paying them a tribute. So let us have an amicable solution or understanding,” said Prabhudessai in the presence of MMC vice-chairperson Tito Cardozo and MMC councillor Angelis Pereira.
 
 
