PUNE: The BCCI   ( ) have given an unequivocal verdict on the so-called amended and Lodha-compliant constitution of the   (MCA): It is non-compliant, which eventually led to the fall of the first wicket, that of the Election Officer.

 
 After studying the amended constitution sent to them by MCA secretary  , the   appointed   administrators have warned MCA of dire consequences if they go ahead with the elections scheduled at the Gahunje stadium on May 2.
 
 They have termed the scheduled elections contrary to the directives issued by the Lodha Committee; and that the BCCI will treat the MCA as a defaulting body and won’t recognize the results of such elections. Even the persons who get involved in the conduct of such elections will be responsible for having wilfully acted in violation of the judgment.
 
 Worse, the CoA states that the amended constitution sent to them deviates from the one accepted by the SGM of MCA on April 7. Incidentally,  , who had chaired the SGM, had not yet signed the minutes of the meeting.
 
 The CoA letter states: “We have received an email from the former President of the MCA stating that there are certain differences between the Amended Constitution (as sent by the Secretary of the MCA) and the one that was finally discussed and approved at the SGM which he presided over. This fact alone casts serious doubts as to the sanctity of the Amended Constitution.”
 
 Incidentally, MCA secretary Riyaz Bagwan had told TOI that he was confident that the new constitution was Lodha compliant and the CoA wouldn’t find any problems with it. He had also claimed that the MCA was better placed unlike some other state associations that had gone back on their word to become Lodha compliant after receiving financial aid from the BCCI.
 
 Ironically, the CoA have now reminded MCA about financial favours given to the state association by BCCI, indirectly hinting that if this attitude continues, they will hit MCA where it hurts the most: either by getting court administrators from the HC on the MCA or by stopping their financial aid.
 
 
