The world around us appears to have suddenly and abruptly woken up to the fact that   in India are being subjected to the worst kind of violence on a very regular basis. There is much shock and indignation being expressed on various forums, not least of those being our electronic media. I know that there are many among us who share the outrage in my heart about the depth of this tragedy and the horror of such regular perpetuation of violence against our girl children and women.

 Not only rape but every act of aggression that a girl or woman faces from conception and birth onwards, is violence of the most horrifying kind. Suppression, oppression, denial of fundamental rights, domestic violence, discrimination in the workplace, sexual harassment in public and private are all just as violative and violent as rape. They all strip a woman of her sense of self-worth and dignity as an individual and an equal member of society . They degrade her strength and decimate her ability to live her life to the fullest. A life that is every woman's right. As it is every man's right.
 
 It is critical to acknowledge the existence of this crisis and it is largely due to the proliferation of social media that this awareness is happening today . However, it is even more urgent that such talk results in the defense of every woman's right to a safe life. As individuals, there is much that we can do. The aggregated power of the common man is formidable. Why do we not use it to defend our mothers, sisters, wives, daughters and friends? Simple talk of women's empowerment is pointless if it does not lead to definitive action. Education, dignity of employ ment, social respect and the above all, the most fundamental right to live her life in peace and safety -these in peace and safety -these are integral and indispensable to a woman. Who is first and foremost, a human being.
 
 The next question that would arise would be -what are we doing about it? What can we do?
 An effective education that empowers a woman to aspire to a life of her choice. An informed and proactive state of good health. These are the building blocks of a progressive and positive life -for all human beings. However, because of sustained discrimination through the ages, women have suffered greatly on both these fronts and it is time to take them up on a war footing. Let us support the education of the girl child and the woman so that she has, not only a means to earn a dignified living, but also the means to pursue her dreams of personal fulfilment. An education that teaches her that her mind, body and soul are just as important as a man's and her right to pursue a life of her choice is an inalienable right.
 
 Grand visions, right? Certainly . However, it is an undeniable fact that this is not beyond achievement -if we take it a step at a time. We, as a society , have created a human rights crisis of unimaginable proportions and it is our duty to set it right.And our society is formed of those on both sides of that divider in a democracy -government. It is the explicit duty of the government to protect the rights of every Indian citizen and to enable their pursuit of a free and safe life. Law enforcement, legal recourse, social counselling, education and health resources -these must be made available to the common citizen as a matter of right. There are countless lapses in these areas that are highlighted by our press and social media every day and we must demand that our fears be acknowledged and addressed by our government.It is our right to live in a society that protects the weakest and strengthens them to become a productive and empowered member of society -their inalienable right.
 
 It is our duty to stand up for one another in today's shattered and fragmented society in the face of such devastating violence. We must demand accountability from the government authorities that have this mandate to protect our women and children. And in doing this and more as individuals, let us do our part to halt this degeneration of our fundamental rights and empower ourselves as a progressive and productive society . One that venerates a woman as an indispensable member of society . One that realises and acknowledges that a woman's wellbeing is one of the greatest factors that engen ders a progressive, productive and healthy society . This must be the age of Shakti, the fountainhead of life.
 
 Bharat Mata ki jai. Jai Hind! 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
 
