Cracking the whip on private tourist buses that fleece people during holiday season, the state government issued a notification to cap their fares on Friday. 

 
  
  
 The government said that private operators can charge only up to 50% more than the normal   fare. So, if the normal fare charged by a state transport   on a particular route is say, Rs 1,000, the private operator can charge a maximum of Rs 1,500. The new rule will apply to all journeys within the state, and inter-state routes. 
 
 The private operators will no longer be able to surge prices according to their whims and fancies-which are sometimes twice or three times the normal fares during the peak season. For example, fares for Mumbai to Goa and Bangalore are known to rise to Rs 3,000-4,000 during peak season and festivals from Rs 1,000-1,500 during non-peak months, said sources.
 
 "The new rule will be enforced with immediate effect. Commuters can lodge complaints against errant tourist bus operators charging excess fares. They can approach the local RTO or transport commissioner office with complaints," said a senior transport official. The punishment involves suspension or cancellation of permit and hefty fines, said sources.
 
 "We will take such buses off roads if they fail to adhere to the new rules," warned another official from the state transport commissioner's office. He further said that in view of competition from MSRTC's   buses, some of the private buses to Pune were already charging low fares. "But sometimes, they will charge a few customers premium fares en route and they can now register a complaint," he said.
 
 Harsh Kotak of Mumbai Bus   said that lately, private operators have been charging less than MSRTC buses on several routes. "Does the government want us to charge more by giving us freedom to charge 50% extra?" he asked.
 
 An MSRTC official said, "Unlike private buses, it is difficult for us to hike fares during festivals and peak seasons. The MSRTC fare remains the same round-the-year and there is no hike or dynamic pricing." He stated that the department had received several complaints from commuters who said they were unable to book tickets on state buses and ended up paying exorbitant fares to private operators. Some of these complaints were forwarded to the government for action.
 
 A few years back, former state transport commissioner V N More had also suggested that the government appoint a committee to devise a formula for fares of private tourist buses.
 
 
