NAGPUR: The young and dynamic boys of   Club once again posted a clinical performance to emerge champions of the   League here on Monday. They defeated seasoned campaigners   (SECR) 6-5 via tie-breaker in the summit clash at the VHA ground.

 
 After an intense battle of 60 minutes where SECR somehow managed to hold the agile Eagle Sporting boys to a 1-1 draw, the winner was decided through a tie-breaker. It was only   of SECR who couldn’t go past Eagle Sporting goalkeeper   which cost his team dear.
 
 Eagle Sporting manager Abid Khan was elated after the triumph. He credited the boys for displaying excellent team effort against some experienced teams on their way to the final.
 
 “I can’t put my happiness in words as this is the first title after 12 years. My boys, most of whom are U-22 years old, played as a unit and got the better of many well-known teams like Dhyanchand Sports Academy and City Police before they entered the final. I congratulate the boys for their excellent show,” Khan, who was the Eagle Sporting manager in 2005, when they won the title, said.
 
 “The young side did very well against some top-class players of SECR when it mattered the most. We were under pressure initially, but the boys believed in themselves. They held their nerves and kept mounting pressure on the rivals,” Khan added.
 
 Eagle Sporting tested their opponents at will. They kept the possession, tackled and snatched the balls before creating attacks throughout the regulation time. It was the strong defence line of SECR that denied them an opportunity to take the lead.
 
 After both the teams failed to break the deadlock in the first-half, Eagle Sporting intensified the tempo, while their rival strengthened their defence.
 
 The change in game-plan earned the result for the champions. Mohit Kathoute, who scored a brace in the semis, made it 1-0 in the 38th minute. However, the joy of Eagle Sporting was short-lived as SECR’s Kartik Argulwar made it 1-1 in the very next minute.
 
 Sharad Chandra Tiwari, ITS & Chief Vigilance Officer, Moil, was the chief guest of the prize distribution ceremony. Bhimsen Bhalchim, additional commissioner of state tax, Chandrakant Gundewar of IBM was the guest of honour. VHA officials including president BC Bhartia, secretary Vinod Gawai and all executive committee members were prominently present on the occasion.
 
 Result
 Eagle Sporting Club 6 (Nilesh Kathoute 38 minute; Tie-breaker: Sanjay Chaturvedi, Nishant Kalakoti, Amir Sheikh, Rohit Kathoute, Mohit Kathoute) bt SECR 5 (Kartik Argulwar 39 minute; Tie-breaker: Pawan Jha, Imran SK, Jahangir Khan, Dalbir Singh).
 
 
