Navi Mumbai: A birthday celebration turned tragic for 13 friends as three of them died and two were injured after one of their cars rammed into a tempo on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Tuesday morning. The collegians were headed to Lonavla in a Polo and an Innova. The deceased have been identified as Shivaji Nagar resident Anas Nagori (18), who was driving the Polo that met with the accident, Swedha Dubey (17) and Shraddha Mourya (19), both Thane residents. The accident took place on the Pune-bound carriageway 2km before Khalapur toll plaza around 10.10am. Eight of the friends were travelling in the Innova while the other five were in the Polo. The other two occupants of the Polo—Thane resident Rizwana Choudhary (19) and Jui Nagar resident Nilesh Thakur (19)—sustained injuries and have been admitted to MGM Hospital in Kamothe. Nagori, who was driving his father’s car, was preparing for NEET. Swedha was pursuing fashion designing after completing HSC in science. Police said that Nagori lost control of the car while overtaking and crashed into a tempo ahead of him. “They had gone to attend the birthday of my son,” said Dr Mehtab Khan, father of Ahmed Shaikh, who was in the Innova. Khalapur police inspector J Shaikh said, “Nagori indulged in lane cutting. He overtook two vehicles and changed lanes before losing control over the vehicle.” Kandivli resident Rakesh Mistry said, “The Polo overtook my car on the right side after a failed attempt from the left. It then overtook another car before crashing into a tempo on the extreme left. I along with the Innova occupants rushed the victims to hospital.” “One of the airbags in the Polo tore, killing Nagori. The one sitting beside him survived. The group was to return in the night,” said Fahim Sayyed, a relative of Nagori. Another of Nagori’s relatives, Farhan Sayyed, said, “Nagori was a brilliant student. He used to take care of his grandfather’s business, Al Ashraf Milk Centre in Baiganwadi. He had secured 85% in HSC.” “Nagori left home at 7am and picked up the others from Thane and other places,” said another relative. The Khalapur police have filed an accident case and will book Nagori.