Kolkata:   Railway, one of the physical symbols of Kolkata’s modernity, showed up the regressive side of the city’s psyche when a mob of Metro passengers thrashed a young couple for “public display of affection and obscene behaviour” on a Dum Dum-bound train on Monday night.

 The thrashing of the couple on the train created a furore that resonated across the country as social media picked up the disturbing images. It also prompted unprecedented responses, one from Metro Railway and the other from Kolkata’s youth.
 
 Metro Railway, a government agency, was forced to convene a media conference to explain its stand. Officials admitted this was the first time that the transport-and-infrastruc-ture authority had convened a press conference to explain its stand on a social issue.
 
 Kolkata’s youth reacted spontaneously, with “Hok Alingan” groups converging on Metro stations on Wednesday a day after a group of about 50 students gathered outside the Dum Dum Metro station to mark their protest. One of them quoted Bob Dylan: “Your old road is rapidly agin’. Please get out of the new one If you can’t lend your hand, For the times they are a-changin’.”
 
 “It (moral policing) will become acceptable behaviour if we don’t protest. Couples tend to stand in close proximity in crowded Metro coaches to avoid unwanted touches. Ask any woman travelling on the Metro during office hours and they will narrate how they have been shoved, groped or pinched,” college student Anuradha Jana said.
 
 Witnesses to the Monday’s episode recalled how the young couple travelling by a Dum Dum-bound late-evening train were first harassed by a section of commuters for standing too close to each other, then pushed out of the train at Dum Dum and thrashed till some other commuters rescued them.
 
 “The young man and woman were standing close to each other when an elderly man commented aloud that the way they were standing was inappropriate. The boy retorted, prompting others to join in, and the situation flared up. Soon, invectives were being hurled at the couple. Someone commented that they should go to a pub on Park Street. Another person made a reference to the bedroom. And, when the train stopped at Dum Dum, the couple were pushed out on to the platform and beaten up by middle-aged and elderly passengers. Commuters from another coach ultimately came to their rescue,” recounted a passenger who, 48 hours later, was still shaken by what she had witnessed.
 
 The incident has led to a glare on Kolkata’s claim to being a progressive and tolerant city. There have been instances of moral policing in the past but they have largely been views of individuals objecting to public display of affection (PDA) or cops attempting to make a quick buck by harassing young couples on the Victoria Memorial campus or at Rabindra Sarobar. What is different this time, and worrying, is that 40-50 commuters in a Metro coach ganged up to physically assault a couple.
 
 That it had happened in the Metro, viewed as the city’s lifeline, is even more troubling for some. Regular Metro commuters said couples standing close to each other on a train was commonplace. “No one usually bothers about them (the couples). It is only when someone passes a comment that the herd mentality takes over and others join in,” an elderly commuter said, adding that he did not approve of the assault.
 
 “A young couple embraced in Kolkata Metro. It made a bunch of frustrated old losers angry. They beat them up. Scenes of hatred are allowed. Scenes of love are considered obscene,” tweeted writer Tasleema Nasreen, who herself was ousted from the city a few years ago.
 
 That the incident had touched a raw nerve was evident from how it was trending on social media 48 hours after it happened and the divided opinion, both online and offline. Some felt PDA “was not acceptable in Indian society” but many others strongly objected to a crowd defining morality and public behaviour.
 
 
