AHMEDABAD: An   hearing the   on Monday issued notice to ex-IPS officer   and   of this case P L Mall, seeking their replies to the demand to make them accused and try them in this 2002 riots case.

 In 2015, the persons facing trial in this case requested the court to arraign Sharma for destruction of evidence and Mall for not acting against Sharma. Defence lawyer Chetan Shah sought the prosecution of Sharma for allegedly misplacing a vital piece of evidence, a CD containing phone call records. It was submitted that Sharma had not handed over the CD, which contained the mobile phone records for the duration of the 2002 riots, obtained by him from service providers, through official channels.
 
 Sharma allegedly sent the CD, but it was never received by then JCP P P Pandey, the authority at city crime branch, which was the investigating agency. Sharma was also assisting the agency in investigations and had hence gathered the call details.
 
 Beside alleging destruction of evidence by Sharma, the defence lawyer also accused the SIT’s investigating officer Mall of malafide intentions, for not arresting Sharma for losing the evidence. The lawyer alleged malafides on the part of both officers.
 
 The newly appointed special judge in this case, M K Dave sought a reply from both the witnesses by February 9.
 
 In 2014, the accused persons unsuccessfully sought to make 82 Muslim witnesses in this case accused for their alleged participation in the riots. Eleven persons had lost their lives in this incident on February 28, 2002.
 
 Sharma later resigned form police service after the state government initiated departmental proceedings against him over the disappearance of the CD. This came almost a decade after the incident. Sharma won the first round of this legal battle and the state government moved Gujarat high court where the issue is pending at present.
 
 The details of these CDs, which were misplaced in 2002, emerged after Sharma was examined by the Nanavati-Shah inquiry commission, which probed the 2002 riots, in 2004. Sharma placed a copy of these CDs before the Justice U C Banerjee committee, formed by the UPA government to probe the cause of the fire in the S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express near Godhra station, in which 59 karsevaks lost their lives.
 
