BENGALURU: Elections are fast approaching but online applications for inclusion of names in the voters’ list are being processed at a tardy pace. Nearly half of the 83,000-odd applications received online are pending as   is yet to be done for them. What’s worse, citizens claim to be clueless about their application status. 

 This was one of the concerns raised during the public meet held with electoral roll observer, Rajender Kumar Kataria, on February 9. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 After applications are filed via the National Voters’ services portal ( ) and the chief electoral officer’s website, citizens have to visit the   office to submit the hard copies. BBMP officers have to issue acknowledgements, update information on the portal (saying the hard copies have been received) and further process the applications.
 
 According to BBMP data, the highest number of online applications have been submitted from Mahadevapura assembly constituency (10,519), followed by K R Puram (8,753), Bengaluru South (7,218) and Bommanahalli (5,728). BTM Layout has contributed the lowest — 976. In Mahadevapura alone, 4,199 applications await data entry.
 
 
 
 
 Natesh GB, assistant commissioner (election), BBMP, said most of the online applications were submitted January 22 onwards, by when the special drive for revision of electoral rolls had already concluded. “Since Bengaluru is an IT hub, awareness is high and we have received more online applications this time. However, data entry for most of them remains to be done as many eligible voters are submitting applications even now. Data entry of the pending applications will begin on February 28, once we publish the mother electoral rolls,” said Natesh. A mother roll is the output of summary revisions of electoral rolls and will be published on February 28.
 
 When asked about the voting rights of the online applicants, Natesh said their names will be added to the final electoral rolls and they won’t be denied their right to exercise their franchise.
 
 The response of BBMP officers has angered citizens. “It’s amounts to a constitutional violation if a genuine voter’s online application doesn’t show up in the mother electoral rolls. Most applications have been pending for months and no reason has been provided for rejection of names; in fact, the website mentions they are ‘eligible for inclusion.’ Applicants are not being kept in the loop, which is ridiculous,” said Anjali Saini of Whitefield Rising who has been spearheading the Million Voter Rising campaign since December 2016.
 
 In Mahadevapura 2,231 Form 6 (for inclusion of names in voters’ list) online applications have been rejected, as per BBMP data which is available with TOI.
 
 A senior officer in the Election Commission, Karnataka, said the online applications submitted after January 22 will be taken up after the summary revisions. “But the BBMP staff have not processed the online applications that were applied before Jan 22, 2017, we will look into the matter,” said the officer.
 
 
  
  
 
