NEW DELHI: A finance ministry-led panel struck down the proposal of social justice minister   to set up residential schools for   girls, saying his ministry should first run the existing hostel scheme efficiently.

 
 In June 2017, Gehlot announced the plan for  . The initial proposal, as reported by TOI, stated there be five such institutions in each state. It was proposed the Centre would fund the schools for three years, after which states would take over.
 
 However, the expenditure finance committee rejected the proposal for 60 residential schools for SC girls.
 
 The   reportedly suggested that instead of opening new boarding schools, social justice ministry should focus on running existing institutes under   (BJRCY) better.
 
 The finance panel reportedly listed three flaws with the existing management of BJRCY - money is not released to states in time, hostels do not have full occupancy and the facilities provided in the hostels are inadequate.
 
 It said BJRCY puts excessive burden on states, which have to provide 10 acres of land for construction of hostels and are tasked with running them. The Centre only provides funds for construction.
 
 Hostels for Dalit girls and boys under BJRCY are designed to incentivise education among marginalised communities by providing them with food and lodging facilities near educational centres away from their homes in backward areas. It is found to help curb the drop-out rates.
 
 The social justice minister had proposed to add the component of "residential schools for Dalit girls" under BJRCY.
 
 These boarding schools were proposed for class VI to XII students.
 
 The Centre was to provide Rs 12 crore for a school complex and hostel in the plains and Rs 16 crore in deserts and hills, and the states were to take over their finance and management after three years.
 
 Following the EFC's rejection and its remarks on BJRCY, the social justice ministry is likely to redraft parts of the scheme.
 
 Sources said the ministry is likely to hike the budgetary provision for BJRCY to Rs 600 crore for next three years.
 
