For most children, the weekend is a time to unwind, but Anantya Anand is at a studio shooting a new video on winter clothing. Her mother is directing her and an uncle filming. Sometimes a scene requires more than one take, but the eight-year-old YouTube star clearly enjoys performing, often improvising. "She doesn't get nervous in front of the camera, but she does in real life," says mother Nisha Anantya, whose channel My Miss Anand has nearly 2 lakh subscribers. Anantya started her YouTube journey as a model to demonstrate children's hairstyles on her aunt's beauty channel in 2013-14. Then she demanded her own channel, and today, she is the most popular   in India in terms of subscribers. It's common for people to recognise her in public and request selfies.

 
 Whether it is singing, cooking, geography lessons, organic farming or just being cute, many little ones are making it big online. Some discover social media by accident. Three years ago, when Sania Shaikh shared a video of her four-year-old daughter Ayat reciting the states and their capitals on her family's WhatsApp group, little did she imagine that it would find its way to YouTube.
 
 Encouraged by friends to post more videos, Shaikh started a channel that showed her daughter singing, dancing, sharing jokes and even trying on makeup. The channel Wonder Girl Ayat, now 7, has over 1.11 lakh subscribers. A video of her audition for the reality show   became the second most-watched YouTube video of 2016.
 
 "Wherever I go, people recognise her," says Shaikh. "Recently, she was invited for a show in New Zealand, and we were surprised that a lot of people who had never been to India knew of her." Shaikh believes the channel's appeal lies in its home-style videos. "These are homemade videos with a child doing something spontaneously," she says.
 
 Learn with Amar, a channel that focuses on geography lessons, has over 91,000 subscribers. Goverdhana Chary Thogiti, a government high school social science teacher in Telangana, decided to make videos with his 12-year-son Amar explaining geography using techniques he'd developed. "Unexpectedly, many viewers appreciated Amar and asked me to upload more videos," he says. "Geography is a subject for all competitive exams from school to UPSC. So the techniques are helpful and the cuteness and presentation style attract viewers."
 
 In the US, YouTube child stars rake in millions, and advertise for major brands, but in India, most Indian parents see it as a platform to showcase talent. Satya Raghavan, head of entertainment at  , sees this changing. "While YouTube kids as a category took off in 2015, individual kid creators took off in 2017. They are growing fast and we expect them to do better," says Raghavan.
 
 Seven-year-old Nihal Raj, whose screen name is Kicha, shot to fame with his cooking videos in 2015. "He loves to be in front of the camera," his mother Ruby Rajagopal says. Since then, he's made puttu (a breakfast dish from Kerala) on the Ellen DeGeneres show and appeared on the popular kids' talent show Little Big Shots UK. "Kichatube is his own property and gets him opportunities," says his father Rajagopal. The family shoots a video a week with the recipe chosen by Raj.
 
  
  
 Mindful of the psychological and emotional effects of turning their children into social media celebrities, parents are careful to ensure that their kids lead a normal life. The Anands do not reveal personal information. Though they have several offers, the family has steered clear of asking Anantya to endorse and sell products. "Running a kids' channel is different because you must be careful about how it is going to influence other children," says Anantya's uncle Arjun Sahu, who manages the Anand family's  .
 
 Eleven-year-old twins Avni and Vir were inspired to make a music video after watching singer   and children's channels such as EvanTube. "We like to sing and wanted to show our talent," says Avni.
 
  
  
 With their parents, the twins shot and released their first video in September 2017. Their second video Emojay, which encourages people to use their faces rather than emojis, recently crossed one million views. "We're not expecting them to become overnight stars. They like doing it in short bursts," the twins' mother Bhooma Hukmani says. "If we do YouTube videos, it will give them opportunity and exposure without taking away their childhood."
 
