Patiala:  , Patiala, is finding it difficult to give salaries to its employees, including professors. The crisis had left the authorities no choice but to take a decision of charity under which the faculty contribute some amount from their salaries. In the last one year, the   has also forced the university to avoid organizing its annual events.

 The university spends around Rs 32 crore on salaries and Rs 12 crore on pensions every month. It is getting Rs 7.5 crore monthly grant from the state government to continue with its functions and is already under debt of Rs 90 crore overdraft taken from banks for which the varsity is paying an annual interest of Rs 14 crore. 
 
 In the past several months, the university has witnessed protests by faculty members, mostly non-teaching staff, for failure in releasing salaries. 
 
 Out of its annual budget of Rs 630 crore, the university generates 65% of revenue on its own and most of it comes from examination and other fees.
 
 Besides the annual government grant, the authorities of the university, however, are looking forward for the government to release an amount of Rs 22 crore for a period of last three years under the scholarship scheme for SC and BC students.
 
 Around a decade ago, the university used to get 110% government grant, but now the percentage had declined to 18%. 
 
 Depending on the charity model, the university a few months ago had got contributions from several professors, who had agreed for a monthly contribution to the university from their salaries. Vice-chancellor Professor BS Ghuman, dean academic affairs GS Batra, registrar MS Nijjar and dean college development council Professor Kulbir Singh Dhillon had deposited cheques of Rs 1 lakh each and agreed for auto-debit of Rs 5,000 per month from their bank accounts. Besides these, other senior professors had also made such contributions.
 
 On the V-C’s appeal, NRIs, who were alumnus of the university, also made commitments for donation. The vice-chancellor also appealed to management of private colleges to donate for the cause.
 
 Some professors are of the opinion that due to over employment and unnecessary spending the university is facing financial crisis. Besides this, unproductive courses and fall in admissions are also grounds for crisis as the university had failed to curtail expenses.
 
 According to sources, there are 967 security guards and 396 examination peons in the university. The strength is much more than other state-run universities. There are 470 daily wagers in the office of the executive engineer, who reportedly have no work to do as the university has no money for construction or other works.
 
 Dean academics affair GS Batra could not be contacted, however, publication bureau head Professor Sarbjinder Singh said, “The university is facing a crisis but the main reason behind this is decline in governmental grants. For instance, a PhD in private college costs around Rs 3.5 lakh whereas in Punjabi University it is done in only Rs 25,000. From the grant of 110% the university is now getting only 18% grant from the government whereas salaries and other expenses have increased in the last one decade.”
 
 
