BENGALURU/ JAIPUR: Two of the four historians that Shree Rajput Karni Sena had named in a six-member panel to decide the fate of Padmaavat ahead of its release last week gave a green signal to the controversial film after watching it in Bengaluru on Monday. They claimed the movie does not hurt the sentiments of any community.

 
 
 Historians R S   and B L Gupta, who had been contacted by   (CBFC) chief Prasoon Joshi last month, saw the movie at the ashram of Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. They were specially invited by him to watch Padmaavat as an attempt to resolve the row over the film.
 
 “Historically, the film is zero... I don’t think the movie will hurt any section of society. The film has nothing to do with history. We both arrived at the same conclusion,” Prof Khangarot told TOI. When asked about representation of Rani Padmini in the film, Khangarot, who is the principal of a college in Jaipur, said the character in the film is not like the one in history. “I can only talk about the movie in terms of story or the plot with reference to history, nothing else. Cinematography is not my subject,’’ he added.
 
 Gupta, who is a retired professor of history in   and has written numerous books on India’s medieval history, said, “I personally feel nothing in the movie is hurtful to the sentiments of any particular caste. Nobody should have a problem with this film.”
 
 
 
 The two maintained that this was their personal opinion and that they do not represent any organisation or community. “We speak only for ourselves,” they emphasised.
 
 “I was not in the country when CBFC invited me to watch this move. Now, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar has taken the initiative; so I watched the movie,” said Prof Khangarot.
 
 Last month, the censor board had sought the opinion of the two historians by inviting them to view the film. However, Khangarot did not attend the pre-show as he was in Dubai. Gupta too couldn’t go for the screening due to his busy schedule.
 
 Two days before the movie’s release on January 25, SRKS had named the six-member panel, demanding that the movie be screened for them. Apart from Gupta and Khangarot, the other two historians named in the panel are Jaipur’s Roshan Sharma and Delhi’s Kapil Kumar. Member of the erstwhile royal family of Mewar, Vishwaraj Singh, and his counterpart in Banswara, Jagmal Singh, were the other two members in the panel. 
 
 However, the local Rajput community is upset with Khangarot and Gupta. 
 
