Bathinda: Rajinder Singh Sidhu, a SAD councillor of Bathinda municipal corporation and complainant against Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim for wearing an attire similar to Guru Gobind Singh, has been arrested by police on abetment to suicide charges. Sidhu was arrested on Monday night after over a three-month-old audio clip had gone viral in which he was heard talking intimately to a woman. That woman had ended life by consuming a poisonous substance on February 26.

 Sidhu (58), who is also president of the managing committee of Gurdwara Singh Sabha, was produced in the court on Tuesday afternoon, which sent him to judicial custody. Meanwhile, Akali councillors held a protest and alleged that a conspiracy had been hatched against Sidhu.
 
 A married woman, aged 28, had committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at the Joggers’ Park of Bathinda on February 26. Another Akali councillor Tarloch Singh, distantly related to the woman, accused Sidhu of having intimate relations with the victim, which made her end life. An audio clip of both had gone viral on Monday, and acting on that, the police registered a case of abetment to suicide and arrested Sidhu.
 
 Tarloch alleged the woman ended her life due to harassment at the hands of Sidhu. During investigation in the  , the police found an audio clip, which was the basis for registration of the case. 
 
 While being taken to the court on Tuesday, Sidhu termed the case as a conspiracy to defame him and denied any relations with the victim. He said the Congress leaders and some Akalis had hatched a conspiracy to defame him. “I have nothing to do with the woman committing suicide and no suicide note was recovered. I will come out clean,” he said.
 
 Bathinda mayor Balwant Rai Nath of SAD also termed the arrest of Sidhu as a conspiracy. He said the Congress had stooped low to defame a respectable person. “We will not tolerate it and will hold a protest against the arrest of our party member and fellow councillor,” he said.
 
 Bathinda thermal plant SHO Shiv Chand said during investigations there were indications of Sidhu’s role in the suicide of the married woman. “Police also seized the audio clip. The case has been registered on merit and there is no politics involved,” he said.
 
 
