NAGPUR: The All India Tiger Estimation 2018 will kick start from January 20. The six-day exercise will be held under the shadow of non-cooperation from forest guards and foresters in the state.

 The talks over wage revision between Maharashtra Forest Guards, Foresters Sanghatana leader   and additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) AR Mande failed on Friday as there was no positive response. Mande did not respond to calls.
 
 While the   (NTCA), which conducts the estimation every four years, was in dark about the strike,   (WII), which does the evaluation of census data said the non-use of gadgets by the field staff will increase their headache.
 
 After Friday’s talks failed, a meeting of all forest union leaders from 11 forest circles in the state was held at Seminary Hills where it was decided that forest guards and foresters will not use GPS and personal digital assistant (PDA) for census work. They will do only protection work.
 
 There are 10,297 forest guards and 3,024 foresters in the state. Those who have been provided PDA and GPS have deposited their gadgets with the in-charge forest officials.
 
 State’s chief wildlife warden AK Misra has already said that the stand taken by foresters will not affect tiger estimation exercise. “As it is, Phase IV estimation is conducted every year in tiger reserves,” he said.
 
 However, wildlife experts said though it may not affect tiger reserves much, estimation will take a hit in territorial areas where there is equally good tiger and wildlife habitat.
 
 YV Jhala, who is professor of conservation biology with WII, Dehradun, and also evaluates status of tigers, their habitat and prey in India, said the accuracy will be affected.
 
 Talking to TOI, Jhala said earlier though the estimation was done with the help of pencil and paper, the use of gadgets was introduced to detect and minimize errors. “No use of gadgets will make the job of the forest department easy but will increase our headache. There can be several back queries while analysing data if it lacked perfection,” Jhala said.
 
 Meher said guards and foresters is a non-technical post. The manual prescribes 13 nature of duties but they are asked to do 31 types of works.
 
 
