TIRUMALA/VIJAYAWADA: The ongoing controversy between   (TTD) and former chief pontiff AV   took a new turn on Sunday with TTD executive officer   announcing that if the Agama Shastras permit the temple body is ready for a public display of jewels to clear all doubts on their safety. The EO made the statement even as Dikshitulu demanded a CBI inquiry into the precious stones and ornaments allegedly gone missing in the last 22 years.

 
 Singhal told media that if the Agama Shastras did not permit public display of temple jewellery, the TTD would digitise them in 3D format and put the photos in a museum for the public. “This is my personal opinion. Officials and higher-ups should ponder over this,” he said.
 
 Reacting to allegations made by Dikshitulu a few days ago that a ruby mentioned in the jewel register of the TTD is missing and a similar precious stone came up for auction in Geneva, Singhal retorted: “TTD employees work hard to keep everything safe and this kind of allegation is really hurting.”
 
 Referring to the ruby, which is said to have broken during Brahmotsavam Garuda Seva in 2001, he said Justice   committee submitted a report that the broken pieces of the precious stone are in the custody of the Peshkar. “This jewel was donated by   in 1945 and the price of the ruby was put at Rs 500 crore. “Then EO of TTD, IYR Krishna Rao, also submitted a report to the state government in 2010 stating that the broken pieces belonged to the ruby and not the ‘pink diamond’,” he added.
 
 The EO also clarified that the retirement age for Archakas is 65 years, which was fixed as per GO Nos. 1171 and 611 issued in 2012.
 
 Meanwhile, Dikshitulu held a press meet in Hyderabad where he alleged that in 1996 after Mirasi system was abolished, the control of ornaments went from Archakas to TTD. “Since then, there is no safety for ornaments,” he said. “The ruby was inside a big platinum chain and records say that the ruby was broken because of the coins thrown at the idol during Garuda Seva. Does such a thing happen?” he asked.
 
 Dikshitulu sought to know why new ornaments are used despite the presence of old ornaments. “I was removed because I questioned the irregularities. If I made mistakes, I should be punished,” he said.
 
