AGRA: A day after TOI reported that   national general secretary Anil Jain’s elder brother   pleaded with   police to not take action against the party workers who allegedly assaulted an SHO, senior officials on Saturday admitted that they were under tremendous pressure to either attach the officer to   or transfer him to another police station.
 
  Firozabad Uttar police station SHO Lokesh   had to face the wrath of alleged BJP workers after he prevented them from assaulting two youths from the minority community on Thursday night.
  
  “The SHO is a hero who risked his life to save youths from the minority community so that a Kasganj-like situation does not arise. He should be rewarded, not transferred,” said Firozabad superintendent of police (city)  .
  
  The SP said that had Bhati not timely intervened and sent the two youths to police station accompanied by cops, their politically-backed attackers would have killed them. “They allegedly manhandled the SHO and hurled abuses on him. However, Bhati did not lose his cool and refrained from using his service weapon. By the time the backup arrived, he kept trying to pacify the unruly group,” Singh said.
  
  Speaking to TOI, Lokesh Bhati, who was on patrolling duty on Thursday night when he received a distress call, said, “I just did my job and will continue to do it until I am a part of the UP Police. Let them transfer me; there will be another Lokesh Bhati in khaki to stand up against those who threaten peace and tranquility.”
  
  “They were in an inebriated state. Not only did they abuse me verbally, but they also slapped me for doing my duty. My first priority was to rescue the two youngsters. The group had attacked the youths after passing objectionable comments about their skullcaps. More than anything else, I was surprised to see senior political leaders come in support of those goons. They requested us not to file an FIR against them,” the SHO said.
  
  Meanwhile, on Saturday, Firozabad police conducted raids at several locations to arrest the three main accused who have been identified as Dheeraj Parashar, Uday Thakur and  , alias Nakul. In 2010, Lucky was booked for attempting to murder a cop in an area under Dakshin police jurisdiction.
