JAIPUR: At a time when the unsettling impact of demonetization and GST is still playing out, expectations are actually high from the Central   that would be announced on Thursday by finance minister  . But what has also been a big concern for the people is the consistent rise in fuel prices in recent months which is making everything costlier stretching the household budgets.

 “When crude prices were trading around $35 per barrel, the government did not reduce the prices. At that time, people though anticipated lower prices, they did not protest thinking that the government will take care when the prices would go up. Now, the crude prices have gone up but the government is not providing the relief,” said Swati Kapoor, a teacher who now uses her Scooty to travel to the school thrice a week instead of the car even though she feels it’s a little riskier.
 
 If the government, which obviously manages the prices even though fuel prices have been deregulated, cannot take care of such basic necessities, nobody would believe in the ‘acche din’ promised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, she said. Kapoor drew attention to the pile of profits the oil marketing companies are making while the common man is suffering.
 
 The common assessment this time around is that the government will reach out to people in the penultimate year of the general elections and use the Budget to mollify the resentment that GST and demonetization has created. The belief is strong despite the fact that the PM has already said that he will not tread the populist road.
 
 “There is an expectation that the finance minister will tinker the income tax slabs by increasing the exemption limit. But even if the government does it, it may not mean much.   of Rs 5,000-7,000 actually has no meaning if the prices of every other item goes up,” said Abhisek Mishra, director of a realty firm.
 
 Mishra said what a common man needs is lower EMIs for his housing and car loans, reduced rates for fuels and electricity, and less tax burden. “Unless the government meets these expectations, the grand faith reposed in the Modi government will result in widespread discontent.”
 
 After the devolution of divisible funds increased to 42% for states, many of the welfare schemes were discontinued by the Centre putting the onus on the states to continue them. Rajasthan was a major beneficiary in many water related programmes, but the state government could not continue several of those need-based schemes.
 
 “Water, health and education should be top priority for a country like India. While the cost of these services are going up for urban population, the rural folks are getting deprived of such basic necessities. The budget needs to address these problems with a priority. Self-employed people at lower social strata need social security,” said  , a leading tax consultant in the city.
 
 He said health services are costlier because of government policies. “Tariffs for electricity and water for hospitals are charged at commercial rates. Many of the health services attract 18-28% GST. With such an environment, we cannot expect the hospital charges to be cheaper. Hope, this budget takes a considerate view of this,” added Ghiya.
 
 
