PUNE: A call from an official claiming to be from a bank prompted Meera (name changed) to   details about her   card. Later when she checked with the bank authorities, she found that no one from the bank had called her.

 Like Meera, many citizens have received calls seeking   about Aadhaar from persons claiming to be from insurance companies, banks or even Unique Identification Authority of India ( ).
 
 Citizens who have been inundated with such calls and messages have been warned by UIDAI not to disclose details over  . UIDAI in a series of tweets has advised citizens not to share their Aadhaar card details with anyone claiming to be a UIDAI official.
 
 The advisory issued on its twitter handle has said no official from UIDAI will call for linking Aadhaar card with bank account or phone number or insurance services. Even as the deadline has been extended as per the interim order issued by the   (SC), citizens have been told not to share details over the phone.
 
 "Do not share your Aadhaar or bank account details with any person claiming to offer Aadhaar linking services over phone. Use only the official website or pre-designated number provided by your bank/ mobile company for online Aadhaar verification," stated the UIDAI tweet. While citizens, prior to the SC order, were keen on linking their bank and mobile numbers, UIDAI officials stated that they should not fall prey to such calls or messages.
 
 Kapil Kaul, a city resident, said that he receives calls every morning from a mobile service provider asking for linking his mobile number with Aadhaar. Kaul visited the office of the service provider only to be told that they have not made such calls. “There is an IVRS process to link registered mobile number with OTP and not otherwise,’’ said an operator.
 
 Meanwhile, director general of the Cellular Operator’s Association of India (COAI) Rajan Mathews said that the SC order to extend the deadline for linking mobile numbers and bank accounts will provide customers and telecom service providers enough time to carry out the linkage instead of rushing to the centres and waiting for long hours or even facing congestion online at the time of linking. 
 
 “The extension will help the operators and customers to carry out the process in an orderly manner,’’ he told TOI.
 
 
