BENGALURU: “He is physically fit and mentally alert all the time,” reads an   certificate given to   ccc way back in 1962 when he was an 18-year-old college student. The declaration holds good even after 56 years, and Justice Shetty believes it’s his mental agility which saved him from the assailant who stabbed him in his office last month. 

 Recuperating after being discharged from hospital, the Lokayukta is looking to resume work from April 22. In a freewheeling interview with TOI on Tuesday, his first ever media interaction after the attack, he spoke about problems dogging the institution and the efficacy it has retained despite all the challenges. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 
 There were some reflections, of course. In fact, I was thinking of resigning when I was in the ICU, but then decided not to get bogged down. As I wanted to join the Army originally, I remembered that our soldiers hobnob with death every day. I am undeterred and will come back with renewed vigour. My style of functioning will not change and the Lokayukta will only be stronger and more effective than before.
 
 
 
 
 I am recovering well. I was on my feet when I was shifted to the ward from the ICU and began morning walks. The wounds have almost healed, except the one on the left rib where the cut was a bit deeper. I hope to join office on April 22 when my leave ends. 
 
 
 
 
 They say the incident happened because of lack of security at the Lokayukta office. I want to take responsibility for that. I wanted people to have easy access to the Lokayukta and had instructed my officials not to restrict anyone from entering the office; there was no time bar as well. While public access will continue, we want to tighten the security. There will be no change in the approach otherwise. The defunct door metal detector has been replaced with a new one. The chamber door will have a scanner and handheld metal detector. 
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think he is mentally unsound. The theory that is being floated may be part of a well thought-out conspiracy, which only a thorough investigation can reveal. His faculties were normal and he chose to drop the knife when my gunman was about to shoot him before surrendering.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t want to talk about the details at this stage since the case is in court and investigation is on. But, as I said earlier, access was easy for the public. When he came in, it was 1.35pm and I was about to go for lunch after giving a dictation to our registrar. As there were no specific visiting hours, he was let in. He had hidden the knife inside his shirt and it escaped scrutiny as the metal detector was not working.
 
 
 
 
 Not much. He gave a piece of paper and while I was looking at it, he suddenly sprang up from his chair, climbed the table and attacked me. Thanks to my quick reflexes, I held the knife in my left hand resisted him with the right one. I raised an alarm and my staffers came in. I remember what the certificate given to me by my NCC camp commander in 1962 said. I’m happy it holds good even now when I’m 74. 
 
 
 
 
 It is wrong. He had no cause. We had got a report saying furniture supplied by him was defective and we wanted to dispose of the case. I had seen him only twice earlier and once he had used abusive words against my staff members in my chamber. Except that, I don’t remember seeing him.
 
 
 
 
 The day-to-day functioning of the Lokayukta has not been hampered as judicial officers are doing their job of conducting inquiries and applications are being received. Only the files which require my signature are pending and I will clear them within a week after returning to office. 
 
 
