Ludhiana: A day after five people were injured in a clash between members of the Muslim and Valmiki communities in Preet Vihar village here, a contingent of the Rapid Action Force was rushed in to the locality to quell any kind of violence in the wake of the brawl.

 The additional force was sent as Preet Vihar had become tense after the clash had taken a communal colour. While the police claimed that the clash was the result of an old enmity, Naib Shahi Imaam Maulana Usman Ludhianvi said a mob attacked about 15 members of the Muslim community as they were opposing the construction of a mosque in the area. “They attacked the Muslims at the time they were offering Tarawi (night prayers during Ramzan),” he said. “It was unprovoked and 200 metres from the under-construction mosque.” 
 
 Even as the preacher cried foul, Meherban police station SHO Davinder Kumar said they had registered a case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unidentified persons for the attack. “”The clash was not over the construction of a mosque. The injured persons received minor injuries; they are fine now,” he said, but admitted to the mosque’s proximity to the scene of the clash.
 
 On Friday evening, alleged Ludhianavi, members of the Muslim community were getting ready for prayers when the mob of around 20-30 persons from the other community attacked them at Preet Vihar in Kailash Nagar. 
 
 He claimed that the attackers were armed with weapons. “They didn’t even spare women,” he said. The injured have been identified as Qayoom (44), Noordin (42), Naseeb (22), Owais (28), and Parvez (26). 
 
 Ludhianavi, however, did not give names of people behind the attack. The SHO said they were trying to itdentify people behind the attack and he would be able to comment only after they were arrested. “Elders have been asked to calm tempers down. We have already started meetings between members of the two communities to broker peace,” the SHO added.
 
 
