INDORE: The protestant Christians of Indore, who have their graveyard in Juni Indore, are now in dire need for another land to bury dead. Owing to the space constraints, the community faces serious concerns. Moreover, they are left with no choice, but to dig and reuse the same grave.

  president   said, 10,000sq ft land has been used by the community and now it is left with no space to bury anymore.
 
 Most of the time, the graves that are dug are over two or more decades old, whereas in the case of relatives, a grave is being dug even in a short span of five years There are more than 3000 people buried in the Juni Indore graveyard.
 
 “It’s sad, but the truth is that we have to dig the graves time and again. All the graves have been dug at least three times by now. Not that we have an option,” said Salvi.
 
 According to the community members the Juni Indore land has been in use for over 100 years now and with no other space to bury the dead, this land has been overused. Madhya Pradesh United Christian Association spokesperson Suresh Carlton said, when compared with the number of community members, the land is rather small for burial purpose.
 
 “We have been trying to look for another land. Since a couple of years, we have been speaking with the Madhya Pradesh minority commission as well for the land, but, we haven’t received any help from them either,” he said.
 
 The community members have been trying to manage in the same land for the longest time and are trying to go to every nook and corner for the same purpose.
 
 There are two more cemeteries in the city, one in Azad Nagar which belongs to the St Ann’s Church and another is in   that belongs to the Catholic community. Azad Nagar cemetery has no issues about the space. Initially, the Kanchan Bagh land was not used for over 100 years as the plague victims were buried in it. It was only after the tenure was completed the community has started using the land after obtaining the required permissions. (Laveena Francis)
 
 
