Rajkot: Concerned over the imminent water crisis this summer, the Gujarat government has taken up massive work of deepening over 13,000 lakes, reservoirs and check dams besides clearing routes of 34 rivers. The work is expected to be completed by May 31 ahead of monsoon, announced Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani in Rajkot on Saturday.

 The CM was here to commence the work on deepening of a natural lake on New Ring road near SRP Camp on the outskirts of Rajkot city under public-private partnership model. He also rechristened the lake spread over 68,000 square metre area as ‘Atal Sarovar’. 
 
 The district administration has already handed over 1 lakh sq m land to the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) at Ghanteshwar for lake beautification and other development of land on its periphery. Under the project, RMC will develop a jogging track, amphitheatre, art installations, play area for children, toy train and much more around the lake. This will be much bigger than the present Race Course, which is in the centre of the city.
 
 “The state government will undertake deepening of 13,000 lakes, reservoirs and check dams by May 31. We also plan to revive 34 rivers by cleaning its routes that remain obstructed,” said Rupani while addressing the gathering after commencing the work at Ghanteshwar.
 
 The CM claimed that by May 31, state’s water conservation capacity will increase by 11,000 cubic metre. He further announced that government won’t charge royalty on the earth that will come out during deepening of ponds and lakes and people will be able to use it without any cost.
 
 “People are joining hands breaking all cast and religion barriers. If everybody joins hand in this work, drought will become a thing of past,” the CM added.
 
 The CM also announced that his government will soon come up with policy for all the municipality and municipal corporations to reuse treated drainage water for filling lakes and reservoirs.
 
 He further announced that state government will set up 10 desalination plants along the coastal belt of Saurahstra, Kutch and south Gujarat. 
 
 
