TIRUNELVELI: A policeman who was in pursuit of illegal sand miners near Parappadi village in Nanguneri taluk in the district was allegedly murdered by a three member gang late on Sunday night. The body of special branch constable S Jegadish Durai, 33, was found by the police personnel from Vijayanarayanam police station in the wee hours of Monday, when they went in search for him as he was not reachable over the phone.

 “We strongly suspect the role of a gang of three in the incident. We have secured two of them and are quizzing them. Five special teams are on the lookout for the third and main accused Murugan (who already has three petty cases against him),” superintendent of police (SP) P Ve Arunsakthikumar, Tirunelveli district, told TOI after conducting inquiries at the crime scene.
 
 The accused were booked under IPC sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). The arrested persons were identified as Krishnan and Murugaperumal of Kakkan Nagar in the same vicinity. It is suspected that the trio mined sand from a tributary of Nambiyar River – about 2-3km from Puducherry.
 
 According to the police, Jegadish Durai was a constable attached to the special branch, a unit tasked with gathering intelligence and directly taking it to top police officers including the SP, which also covered areas under the Vijayanarayanam police station. On receiving information on illegal sand mining near Parappadi on Sunday night, he alerted the local police and rushed to the spot on a bike.
 
 Inquiry with the accused revealed that Jegadish spotted the tractor with trailer carrying sand on   connecting   and Parappadi villages and flashed his torch light at them. But the accused went off the village road and entered a portion of barren land in a bid to escape from the cop. They wandered a few acres on the barren land as Jegadish remained in pursuit on his bike.
 
 On reaching the portion of land owned by Duraipandian, a retired village administrative officer, one of the two wheels of the trailer came off, leaving the vehicle down on its side. As the trio tried to flee the policeman reached the spot and tried to stop them. They beat the unarmed policeman at least thrice on his head, leaving him dead on the spot.
 
 Meanwhile the local police tried contacting him but he could not be reached. The Vijayanarayanam police later found him dead with a metal weapon and torchlight next to him. The police said that the incident could have taken place between 10.40pm on Sunday (when he last spoke to the police in the station) and 5.30am on Monday (when his body was spotted by the police).
 
 The body was sent to the   and Hospital for post-mortem. The tractor and trailer used by the accused were seized. Jegadish is survived by wife   (who is five-months pregnant) and a three-and-a-half-year-old son Joel. Senior department officers said Jegadish was an honest and straightforward policeman and that his murder has sent down shock waves in the department.
 
 
