MUMBAI: The   may be seven months away, but national team coach   wants to set in motion the preparations for the tournament which will be held in UAE from January 5 to February 1.

 
 Kenya, Chinese Taipei and New Zealand may not have set the world on fire with their football exploits, but Constantine wants to play matches and what better way than to participate in a tournament that will see India compete in a maximum of four matches, provided they qualify for the final. The second Intercontinental Cup which begins at the Mumbai Football Arena from June 1 gives the hosts that chance.
 
 India will be playing against Chinese Taipei in their opening match on Friday. But, Constantine is using this tournament for the purpose of preparation and finalising his playing squad. Unfortunately, the rival teams are also not super strong. All the three teams have come with plenty of youngsters.
 
 “We cannot control what kind of players our opponents bring, but we will be playing against some good ones from New Zealand. They have plenty of players who ply their trade in Europe. It is up to us to tactically match our opponents,” said Constantine.
 
 The coach feels that results do not matter, but the effort will be to win all our matches. He also believes this tournament will set into motion a long chain of events that will keep the Indian players occupied. Following the Intercontinental Cup, the Indian team will be playing in the SAFF Championships, followed by the Asian Games in Jakarta. It will be of course followed by the Indian season.
 
 Captain  , who will be playing his 100th game during this tournament, said the players today are much more aware now than when he started. “The Indian boys have the knowledge and that’s the most important change I’ve have noticed since I made my debut against Pakistan,” said the 33-year-old.
 
 However, he feels the Indian team have a mixed bag for their opening encounter against Chinese Taipei on Friday. “Some of us who are part of Bengaluru FC have been playing, there are others who have not played for the last month. But our staff have brought them to the right level,” said Chhetri.
 
