KOCHI: Though there has been an increase in the number of forest fires in the state over the past couple of years with 165 being reported in 2016, forest scientists said Kerala is a much safer state when compared to the rest of India. There has been an increase in the number of forest fire alerts in India in 2017.

  Compared to 2016, it went up from 15,937 to 35,888. Tamil Nadu, too, saw an increase from 95 to 301 during the same period and most incidents happened between January and May.
  
  
 
 With almost all Kerala state forest officials (852) being registered for Forest Survey of India’s   system, officials said that this has helped to manage and contain fires. Around 370 major forest fires were recorded in the state between 2014 and 2016 - 114 in 2014, 91 in 2015 and 165 in 2016. The most number of blazes were recorded in Wayanad and Idukki, with both reporting 71 major fires each. Forest department said that 417.83ha across 26 locations were damaged in Wayanad alone.
 
 
 The satellite-images keep changing their alert areas based on the varying temperatures, dryness of the area and several other parameters based on the data that’s recorded from sensors. “However, Kerala’s forest fires are very less compared to other states because of our climate. Also, the fire management tools used by the state forest department helps in preventing fire at extreme-dry areas in the forests,” said scientist at Kerala forest research institute (KFRI) Sreejith KA.
 
 
 He said that the forest department uses a system of managed fires to ensure that there are not too many dried areas where a spark can lead to a wildfire.
 
 Sreejith who is the principal investigator for an ongoing study on fire as a management tool, said that natural fire is a rare occurrence. “Fires often have a trigger and human involvement is always there. Most fires occur between January and May. So, we should work out a system to ensure that there are no tourists in the fire-prone areas in these months.
 
 
 A   which considered the damage caused to fireaffected grassland ecosystems found that frequent fires at the same location caused loss of soil components and minerals which are needed for the revival of ecology. The study, which considered the changes in the soil, found that there was a change in minerology. “The changes will be long-lasting depending on the intensity of the fire,” said KFRI soil scientist  
 
