PATNA: In a significant decision, the state cabinet on Tuesday approved a grant of Rs 1 lakh to scheduled caste (SC) and scheduled tribe (ST) students from Bihar who crack the civil services preliminary examination conducted by the   (UPSC). Similarly, the SC/ST candidates clearing the preliminary test (PT) for civil services by   ( ) would get Rs 50,000, said chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh after the cabinet meeting.

 
 “As it costs a lot to prepare for the mains (examination), the state government has decided to give them financial assistance under Mukhya Mantri Anusuchit Jati Ewam Anusuchit Janjati Protsahan Yojana,” Singh said, adding the amount would be transferred into the candidates’ bank accounts in a single instalment. 
 
 It was also decided to give grant of Rs1,000 per month under Mukhyamantri Anusuchit Jati Evam Janjati Chhatravas Yojana to all SC/ST students living in government hostels across Bihar for studies. 
 
 Singh said the SC/ST families would also be eligible for the benefits under Bihar Mahadalit Vikas Mission. The announcement that all SCs and STs would get the benefits earlier reserved only for the Mahadalits was made by the chief minister at a function organized by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan.
 
 “In addition, the state government will also give 9kg rice and 5kg wheat to each student from minority, backward classes (BCs) and extremely backward classes (EBCs) along with SC/ST community per month. The cost of the grains along with its transportation up to hostels will be borne by the state government,” the chief secretary said.
 
 When asked, Singh said there were 111 hostels for SC/ST students and 33 each for BC/EBC and minority community across the state. More than 12,000 students are in these hostels, he added.
 
 The cabinet also approved a new scheme named ‘Alpasankhyak Kalyan Antarpurti Yojana’ for minority community people who are deprived of different central and state schemes. 
 
 Singh said the government approved a separate engineering cadre for urban development and housing department with 577 posts from chief engineer to junior engineer ranks. “The decision was taken based on needs of the department,” Singh said.
 
 The special branch of Bihar police also got a shot in its arm with the creation of 437 posts in different ranks from superintendent of police to constables and clerks. “These posts have been created to strengthen the special branch,” he said.
 
 “A proposal has also been cleared to establish a frozen semen station at Maranga in Purnia with the help of   (NDDB) at the cost of Rs63.92 crore,” he said.
 
 “As the students’ credit card scheme did not work well with banks, Bihar Rajya Siksha Vitt Nigam has been formed under the finance department for which consent has been given to lend it Rs100 crore from   and Rs9.5 crore for its operations,” he said.
 
 In addition, the cabinet also gave Rajgir Malmas Mela the status of state fair.
 
 
