CHENNAI: The police are on the lookout for members of a little-known organization called  , which consists of mostly lawyers, who they believe instigated protesters and infiltrated among them to perpetrate violence. 

 
  Police in civil clothes knocked on the doors of Mahesh, who heads the   which spearheaded the May 22 protests, on Thursday night, seeking details and whereabouts of members of the outfit, who have helped the group in its legal battles and protests.
 
 The   police have so far registered about 27 cases and apprehended 177 people in connection to the violence which triggered the police firing that killed 13 civilians during the anti-Sterlite protest. 
 
 A police officer said, "They have narrowed down on the suspects with the help of CCTV camera footages recorded during the protests." Police said that they have been searching for a few people hailing from Cuddalore, Madurai and Virudhunagar after identifying them with the help of video clippings sourced from some private television channels. Police have also taken into account videos spread through   and social media during the protests.
 
 However, the police have not named the key suspects including the members of Makkal Athigaram and the lawyers who mobilised protesters from other cities inTuticorin. There are four inspector-generals of police (IGP) handling the situation to bring normalcy in the city. 
 
 IGPs Sailesh Kumar Yadav, Davidson Devasirvatham, S Varadharaju and Shanmuga Rajeshwaran have been assigned to handle law and order, locate the suspects behind the protests, and conduct peace committee meetings with the villagers.
 
 A senior police officer said, "Now, our primary agenda is to maintain law and order in the city and ensure there are no 'outsiders' instigating the villagers." Police personnel have been verifying voter identity cards, aadhar cards and ration cards of people to recognise 'intruders'. The police have also kept a tab on the villagers to maintain law and order.
 
 Police sources said, M Krishnamoorthy - a Tuticorin-based activist heading the Unorganised Workers' Federation and associated with the anti-Sterlite protests right from 1994 when the foundation stone of the copper smelter unit was laid, said police were searching for a few advocates associated with the Makkal Athigaram. "We can say with certainty that no banned organisation took part in the May 22 protests in Tuticorin," he said. 
 
 P Prabhu, another activist based in the port town and associated with the ant-Sterlite movement, told TOI that two lawyers Hari Raghavan and Vaanchinathan had helped eight people arrested during a hunger strike in Tuticorin on February 12, get bail. "Our hand bills and posters never mentioned any organisation or political party. It was a people's movement," he said.
 
 
