SHIMLA: The   of Himachal Pradesh Assembly starting from Tuesday is going to be a litmus test for Chief Minister   with opposition   set to corner him on the issue of proposed amendments in Section 118 of HP Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972. At the state level convention held in Mandi on Saturday, Congress had passed a resolution accusing the BJP government of ignoring the interests of state for the outsiders.

 Sources said that Congress has already planned to corner BJP government on the issue in the assembly during budget session. Before 2012 assembly election too, Congress had cornered then BJP government by accusing it of putting “Himachal on Sale” and this was major poll issue of party in the assembly election.
 
 Congress party said that under the garb of ease of doing business, BJP government is planning to make amendments in section 118 while truth is that already industries and hotels are getting permissions from the government.
 
 Congress leaders have already warned the state government to desist from any move to amend the section 118. In the resolution passed by party during the Mandi convention, it has been alleged that to facilitate the outsiders BJP government led by Jai Ram Thakur is making changes in the section 118.
 
 “Congress party would strongly oppose any move of the BJP government to change the provisions of section 118. We will oppose this within and outside the state assembly,” said Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, state president.
 
 He said that Dr Y S Parmar, first chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, has enacted the section 118 act to save the hills from being sold to outsiders and to save the culture and tradition of hill state. “But now after coming to power BJP is trying to fiddle with the act under the garb of facilitating industries which would not tolerated,” he added.
 
 Jai Ram Thakur said that protecting the interests of people of state is the priority of BJP government. He said that no changes are being made in section 118 neither there is any plan to scrap the act. He said that only there is proposal to simplify the rules and this is not the first time when amendments are being made in the act. Congress party which is now opposing the amendment, itself has amended the act six times in past, he added.
 
