NAGPUR: The cash-strapped   ( ) will rope in sanitary workers to distribute ‘appear notices’ to small property owners in its effort to recover Rs 50 crore tax arrears.

 According to standing committee chairman  , in the process of targeting property tax of above Rs 10,000, the tax department from all the 10 zones completely ignored small property owners whose tax arrears are below Rs 5,000. 
 
 Citing an example, Jadhav pointed out that a zone having about 30,000 properties, the tax inspectors have failed to distribute invoices to around 10,000 to 15,000 property owners whose tax arrears is below Rs 5,000. These property owners are not at fault, he clarified and stated that due to lack of planning and targeting only big taxpayers, the zone offices have completely ignored small taxpayers.
 
 Now, the civic body will focus small tax payers too, said NMC’s tax consultative committee chairman Avinash Thakre. According to him, NMC owes between Rs 40 crore and Rs 50 crore as tax from small property owners. “As sanitary workers visit all localities, the civic body will use them to distribute appear notices,” he said. Standing panel chief said that he will review the property tax collection every week. 
 
 The contract of M/s  , a private firm entrusted with the job of creating a comprehensive computerized geo-enabled property database of 5,31,453 properties to support assessment and consolidation of all revenues for NMC, ended on December 31 last year. Against the target, the private firm had done assessments of 3,83,541 properties. 
 
 Even the firm’s contract ended on December 31, neither the tax department nor the standing committee took any initiative to appoint a new firm or renew the old contract. Jadhav claimed that he has already directed the department to complete the procedure at the earliest. 
 
 To a query, Thakre said the tax department has distributed 1.39 lakh invoices and the process to generate more invoices was on. According to Thakre, even the objections raised by 8 to 10 % property owners too have been resolved. 
 
 Till January 21, 2018, the tax department has recovered Rs 124.98 crore tax as against a target of Rs 564 crore, which includes Rs 234 crore arrears, said Jadhav. 
 
 Meanwhile, the civic administration on Tuesday issued circular to implement the changes announced in property tax system announced in general body meeting held on December 30. After much uproar over steep hike of property tax, mayor   read out the decisions before the   that residential property owners will have to pay only two times more than the existing tax if it is increased over and above two times. 
 
 
