CHANDIGARH: Architects have urged the Chandigarh administration to simplify processes adopted for self-certification and conversion of shop-cum-flat to shop-cum-office. 

 For the benefit of city residents, the administration has introduced the concept of self-certification of building plans of residential, commercial and industrial plots by private architects of Chandigarh, who are registered with the  . While architects lauded the move, they have called for simplification of the system.
 
 Receipt of submission of three sets of plans sanctioned by the architect under self-certification, submitted to the estate office should be issued on the spot. In case of difference in fee calculated and bank drafts submitted, the difference of amount should be intimated immediately to the architect/owner of plot to enable them to deposit the amount with estate office immediately. The estate office should issue necessary sanction within 15 days without any delay, architects suggested.
 
 Architects also expressed displeasure over the estate office asking for property records from owners despite having digitised records of properties in the city. The Chandigarh administration has spent a huge sum in digitisation of records to enable the estate office to use scanned files for online process of approval of plans. Architects also highlighted lack of coordination among staff of different departments, which often leads to delay.
 
 They raised the demand for a help-desk at the building branch to help architects and plot owners sort out problems related to building plans submission and payment of charges, penalties and conversion issues.
 
 They also demanded that while intimating the composition fee of a residential, commercial or industrial building to owners, calculation sheet showing details of calculation of composition fee be sent to plot owners. They said a copy of the same should be marked to the architect through whom the revised building plans and application for grant of completion/occupation certificate was submitted.
 
 The architects also took up the issue of streamlining the process of conversion of shop-cum-flat to shop-cum-office. They suggested that architects be allowed to calculate conversion charges on the basis of norms prescribed. If any difference is found in the paid conversion charges, it will be paid by the owner immediately to the estate office on receipt of letter, so that sanction by estate office is granted within 15 days.
 
 On Thursday, the two-member team inspected the online building plan system, one of the key components of ease of doing business, launched by the Chandigarh administration. The team also interacted with around 10 private architects to take their feedback on the system and to know about the problems being faced by them. Architects also submitted a representation highlighting their concerns.
 
 
