NEW DELHI: Facing a do-or-die situation,   will be up against   in Game 41 of the  . While the three-time   champions have shown fortitude having won their last two games – against Kings XI Punjab and Kolkata Knight Riders - they understand that one bad game will mark the end of their hopes of staying alive in the tournament.

 
 
 
 Mumbai face KKR in back to back games, and if the last two matches are anything to go by, they do possess a settled look to their Playing XI. However, former India opener   feels that their skipper   is better suited opening the innings than batting at No.4. 
 
 “There has been very little to choose between Mumbai Indians and Kolkata Knight Riders this season. The only thing going for Kolkata this evening will be the fact that they can live another day even if they end up second best. For Mumbai, every game from here is a knockout and this clutch situation can be a double-edged sword at times,” Srikkanth, who played 43 Tests and 146 ODIs for India, wrote in his column for TOI on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 “It has been heartening to see Mumbai settle in with the right combination. They have been covering all bases in their last few games; however the only area where I feel they could do better is Rohit Sharma needs to open the innings.”
 
 Rohit has had a quiet IPL 2018 so far. He has made 231 runs from 10 games and has played just two innings of substance - unbeaten 94 against Royal Challengers Bangalore in Mumbai and unbeaten 56 against Chennai Super Kings. He has batted mostly at No.4, and the opening duties have been assigned to Suryakumar Yadav and Evin Lewis, and both have done a reasonable job so far. While Yadav has made the most of the opportunity provided, with 399 runs, West Indian Lewis has slightly underperformed with 247 runs and one half-century. 
 
 Eden Gardens is a venue Rohit loves batting on. His numbers in IPL at the venue also paints a similar picture - he has scored 418 runs in 11 T20 innings at an average of 52.25 and at a strike rate of 146.67. With their back against the wall, Rohit may just be open to the idea of walking out with Yadav to begin the innings.
 
 “It goes without saying that the best batsman in the side should be allowed to face maximum deliveries. For an opener with such an outstanding record in white ball cricket, I can’t really see a reason why Rohit refuses to open in the IPL. Eden Gardens is one of his happy hunting grounds and I would like to see the skipper open the innings,” Srikkanth said.
 
 KKR's 13-run loss against MI pushed them to No.4 with five wins from 10 matches. With Sunrisers all but certain to book a place in the playoffs, and Chennai Super Kings and Kings XI Punjab closing in too, the match against Mumbai Indians, becomes crucial. While their batsmen have flourished, the bowling has lacked teeth, and their biggest disappointment, according to Srikkanth has been former Australia fast bowler Mitchell Johnson.
 
 Johnson has been lethal in the previous editions of the IPL, but this year, Johnson, in six matches, has only two wickets to show. More alarming is his average of 108.00 and he has conceded runs at 10.28 per over. 
 
 “Kolkata, on the other hand, are probably a bowler short. They should have definitely been in a better position than where they are now. Both teams have failed to close out matches, this also speaks a fair bit about their consistency. In his current rhythm, Mitchell Johnson has no place in the side. An economy of 10 plus at an average of 108 per wicket does not inspire confidence and I don’t see the logic behind Dinesh Karthik expecting the ageing speedster to deliver,” Srikkanth wrote.
 
 “Chennai, Hyderabad and Punjab are almost certain of a playoff berth, the winner this evening could well turn out to be the fourth. It will not be a bad time for both teams to gain some momentum from this game onwards.”
 
