VISAKHAPATNAM: The   air route continues to remain the busiest when compared to flights connecting   with other cities, with the Vizag-Hyd route alone contributing over 30% fliers.

 After the Vizag-Hyderabad route comes the Vizag-Bangalore route at second place, followed by Vizag-Delhi (third) and Vizag-Chennai (fourth).
 
 According to sources,   airport saw a footfall of 2,00,047 passengers in February. Nearly 30% of the total footfall came from the Vizag-Hyderabad route. A total of 61,075 passengers travelled between the two cities in February. There were 30,514 passengers from Vizag to Hyderabad while there were a nearly identical 30,561 passengers from Hyderabad to Vizag.
 
 Speaking to TOI, an   official said the travellers between these two cities (Hyderabad and Vizag) are at the top when compared with other cities like Bengaluru and Chennai. The travellers between Vijayawada and Vizag stood at only 3% of the total footfall in February, officials said.
 
 D Varada Reddy, president of Air Travellers’ Association (India), said the Vizag-Hyderabad route is significant. “Hyderabad is an important destination for the people of Vizag. Many denizens from the city fly to Hyderabad for various purposes like business, education, meeting relatives and for catching onward international flights from the Hyderabad airport,” he said.
 
 Nearly seven flights fly daily between Vizag and Hyderabad and are operated by various airlines like IndiGo and Air India.
 
 A frequent air traveller between Vizag and Hyderabad, K Sridhar, said the services between both cities is good, but there should be more flights in the early hours and late in the night between Hyderabad and Vizag.
 
 O Naresh Kumar from Visakhapatnam Air Travelers’ Association said apart from Hyderabad, the number of fliers from Vizag to Bengaluru is also growing on par with other cities like Chennai and Delhi.
 
 According to the report, the passenger   between Vizag and Bengaluru stood second after Vizag-Hyderabad. A total of 41,024 fliers flew between Vizag and Bengaluru in February this year. Next is Delhi with a total of 26,835 fliers.
 
 
