GURGAON: On an April morning last year, 37-year-old Shatrughan Prasad was working his shift in an auto component manufacturing unit in   when his head got stuck on the conveyer belt. His fellow   recall how Prasad remained trapped till the owner of the plant allowed the machine to be stopped. Nearly an hour and 30 minutes later, he was taken to Rockland Hospital.

 TOI spoke to some workers at the Manesar-based company and they said if Prasad was rushed to the hospital, his life could have been saved. Prasad was from Bihar and was a contract worker. On the day, his fellow workers again had a rendezvous with what their fate could be. Angry, they decided to form a trade   to fight the system. Akhilesh, a migrant labourer from Uttar Pradesh, said they started protests immediately. But as soon as the management realised workers were trying to form a union, transfers, suspensions and forced resignations started. Akhilesh says over 30 people lost their jobs and livelihood in eight months. 
 
 “Things, however, didn’t stop at that. We were threatened, goons were sent to our homes to tell us that if we didn’t stop, we would meet the fate of the workers convicted for life imprisonment in the 2012 Maruti labour unrest,” said Akhilesh, who is no longer working at the company but is a part of negotiations between workers and the management. He said eight months after the workers applied for the formation of a union, the file is yet to be sent to Chandigarh for approval.
 
 The company’s management denied the  , saying, “We have not threatened any worker or forced anyone to quit. We are bound under the law to let workers form unions and the process is under way. Meanwhile, we are working on reconciling with the workers.” 
 
 Years after the Maruti plant violence, the struggle for forming unions continues in the Gurgaon-Manesar industrial region. The process is difficult and there is always pressure to quit. The known faces among the workers are threatened and exploited. “The incident at Maruti also started with workers asking for their union rights,” said Vikas Kumar, vice president, Maruti Suzuki Workers Union.
 
 As per the amendment in Trade Unions Act, 1926, 10% or 100 (whichever is less) of the workforce needs to demand for a trade union to get it registered. According to workers and activists, there are nearly 10,000   in Gurgaon and Manesar and only 100 registered unions.
 
 Activists claim that even though the procedure is simple on paper, it is almost impossible to form unions in the region due to multiple factors. “Companies are ready to go to any extent to stop workers from forming unions because if a union is in place, they will no longer be able to exploit workers and will have to pay their due wages and benefits,” said Shyamvir, an activist who works with Inqalabi Mazdoor.
 
 However, Anupam Malik, former additional labour commissioner, Haryana, who retired on December 31, said that the right to form a union is granted under the Constitution and cannot be taken away. “If any worker is facing any problem, it should be reported to the office of the labour commissioner, Chandigarh, and will be taken care of,” he said. Malik added that contrary to workers’ claims, there are nearly 1,000 unions in the region, adding that the Gurgaon labour office can give the exact numbers. Officials at the regional office, however, said the numbers are with the Chandigarh office. 
 
 Even though the workers at Maruti Suzuki Ltd managed to form a union, many workers in the auto industry in the region have to struggle for years for the same. 
 
 Workers at another auto components maker based in Manesar faced a similar struggle when they tried floating their union in April 2014. The workers got their union registration number in October 2014 but the company refused to acknowledge it. The workers leading the struggle were suspended and transferred. Subsequently, a civil case was registered in the labour court, Gurgaon, but the workers alleged the labour department diluted their charges. Hence, they took the matter up with the high court. “When the management realised its case was weak, they agreed to negotiate. In August 2016, after two years of intimidation, legal struggle and suspensions, we were succesful in forming the union,” said mAtul Tyagi, member of the employee union.
 
 In the middle of unionisation efforts is the labour department which draws flak from workers who allege that its officials are highly biased towards companies. “The department is favouring companies for reasons best known to them. Many times workers are given threats in the presence of labour officials and in their offices,” said a worker employed with an auto manufacturing unit in Gurgaon.
 
 
