SURAT:  , the Surat airport has moved a step further in getting limited international airport and increased air connectivity to the domestic destinations.

 The Directorate General of   (DGCA) has accorded the concept and execution-level approval for displacement of runway 22 on Vesu side threshold by 615 m before commissioning of the phase-II work of the runway extension at the airport. 
 
 Official sources said the runway 22 has been displaced at the threshold of 615 m, which means that the aircrafts landing from there will be able to use only 2,250 m of runway of the total length of 2,905 m. However, depending on the wind direction, if the air traffic control (ATC) finds it suitable for the aircraft to land from runway 4 on the Dumas side, the pilot can use the full-length runway for landing.
 
 The DGCA has laid down conditions before giving the approval for the commissioning of the phase-II runway. These include mitigation measures proposed in safety assessment and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to be strictly adhered, civil aviation requirement (CAR) provisions be complied before commissioning of work area, separate commissioning level safety assessment shall be submitted for approval, notice to airmen (NOTAM) to be followed before commencement of work to disseminate information to all stakeholders and submitting action plan for restoration of displaced threshold to previous location in time bound manner. 
 
 Talking to TOI, airport director   said, “The 615 m runway from Vesu side has been displaced, which means that aircrafts can’t use this patch for landing. This is due to the obstacles in the flight path in the form of buildings in the funnel area of the runway. However, the flights landing from Dumas side will be able to use full length runway of 2,905 m.”
 
 Sources said the aircrafts landing and taking off from the airport will be able to use the full-length runway ideal for operating bigger aircrafts like   320 and 380, mostly used in the international operations. Also, the load penalty on the airlines will not be there due to the commissioning of full-length runway. 
 
 “It is due to the building obstructions in the funnel of the airport that   had proposed the displacement of runway 22 at Vesu side threshold by 615 m. Had there been no obstructions, we could have got the permission for the full-length runway. It is quite challenging for the airport authorities to fulfill the conditions laid down by DGCA,” a senior official said.
 
 
