BENGALURU: The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s ( ) ambitious plan to provide free Wi-Fi in 200 of its air-conditioned buses has hit a roadblock. 

 Though BMTC, along with private firm KPIT Technologies, set up Wi-Fi connectivity in 95 old   over the last three months, the facility hasn’t been extended to the remaining 105 new   buses. Reason: the corporation fears that Wi-Fi facility in the new fleet might deny it warranty cover.
 
 “The plan to install Wi-Fi in new Volvo buses has been delayed since the manufacturer doesn’t allow any modifications to its new buses for two years and any violation would deprive the vehicle of the warranty cover,” said a senior BMTC official. 
 
 BMTC operates more than 650 Volvo buses.
 
 In 2016-17, BMTC signed an agreement with KPIT Technologies to install Wi-Fi facility in 200 Volvo buses on routes like Kempegowda International Airport, ITPL, Electronics City and Bannerghatta.
 
 “We will soon have a discussion with Volvo authorities to allow us to install Wi-Fi in new buses and will soon expand the facility to the other buses,” said BMTC chairman Nagaraj Yadav.
 
 When contacted, Volvo Buses, in a statement, said: “Our warranty policies have been consistent over many years in line with internationally benchmarked practices. And we make sure that all customers fully understand the substance and detail of our warranty policies. Additionally at Volvo Buses, we do provide technical guidelines for fitment of external devices like Wi-Fi systems, which, if complied with, can be supported within the terms of warranty.”
 
 According to the agreement by BMTC and KPIT Technologies, commuters will get free internet with a minimum bandwidth speed of 7.2 Mbps in Wi-Fi enabled buses. While data limit is fixed at 30MB per passenger, the firm is allowed to charge commuters for downloading data.
 
 “Passengers taking Volvo buses can enquire with the BMTC conductor if Wi-Fi is available,” an official said.
 
 The corporation had also planned to extend the facility to nearly 1,000 non-AC buses. However, any such extension is likely only after the completion of the project in the 200 AC buses.
 
 The utility expects that advanced facilities like free Wi-Fi, cashless payment, GPS-based tracking and reduction of AC bus fares would attract passengers, who have shifted to private cabs like   and Uber. “It’s a good idea to have free Wi-Fi in Volvo buses. We could even watch a movie while stranded in traffic. Most cabs in the city are already providing free internet to passengers,” said S Vineeta, a regular user of BMTC’s Vayu Vajra.
 
 This is not the first time that the BMTC is taking up the free Wi-Fi initiative. In 2010, it provided Wi-Fi facility in Vayu Vajra buses to the airport. This was extended to 60 buses in 2014. However, the project had to be dropped as the private firm backed out of the contract.
 
 No net connectivity at key bus terminals
 
 Last year, the BMTC had tied up with a private firm to provide free Wi-Fi to passengers waiting at major bus terminals. The firm was supposed to provide the service at seven major bus stations across the city at a speed of 4 Mbps. According to the tender, the firm should provide Wi-Fi access to Majestic terminal (250 concurrent users), Shivajinagar (100), Shantinagar (50), Jayanagar (50),   (50) and Banashankari (50). However, the project is yet to take off as the corporation failed to reach an understanding on advertisement revenue sharing.
 
 
