HUBBALLI: Afzalpur constituency in Kalaburagi district has caught the attention of the state with   shifting to BJP from Congress, and his arch rival, former MLA M Y Patil, moving in the reverse direction to fight each other again in the upcoming polls. But the Afzalpur fight this time is more of a personal clash between Guttedar and   leader in Lok Sabha  .

 The long-standing differences between the senior leaders of the district have finally resulted in Guttedar quitting Congress after blaming Kharge for sidelining him to favour his son and minister Priyank Kharge, who represents Chittapur. The fight has only turned ugly after Guttedar left the Congress.
 
  
  
 While Guttedar, an Idiga, has claimed that it was his family that got Kharge the ministerial berth when S Bangarappa, also an Idiga, was the chief minister, Priyank has alleged that it was Guttedar who was following his father for power and position.
 
 The differences between Guttedar and Kharge senior is not new for the people of Kalaburagi district. While Kharge's followers have been accusing Guttedar of plotting against their leader and working to get him less votes in Afzalpur during Lok Sabha elections, the MLA has been refuting it and attributing the same to the popularity of BJP in his constituency.
 
 Meanwhile, Guttedar has threatened to defeat Priyank in Chittapur in the assembly polls. Priyank has challenged Guttedar to win from Afzalpur first. Past trend shows that in Afzalpur, it is the contestant that matters and not the party.
 
 In the seven previous assembly elections, Guttedar won six times, while M Y Patil won once. During this journey, Guttedar had joined the Congress, KCP and JD(S) and is now in BJP. Patil, on the other hand, had been with the Janata Party, Congress, JD(S), BJP and KJP and is now back in the Congress. There has been a neckand-neck fight between Guttedar and Patil, who is a Lingayat, in all these polls.
 
 Of the 1.9 lakh voters in Afzalpur, the OBCs (Kolis and Kurubas) and Dalits form a good number.
 
