MUMBAI: The state government has kept the door ajar to allow construction on lands marked as natural areas (NA) under the new development plan (DP). Although NAs are land parcels where development is prohibited, the new   has put a caveat on the definition. If the government feels a plot marked as NA does not satisfy the definition fully, it could be used for development purposes.

 
 Environmentalists and activist fear this could allow the state to hand over eco-sensitive salt pan lands to builders. Many of these salt pan tracts have already been illegally reclaimed over the years by dumping debris and killing mangroves.
 
 The notification published by the state approving the DP says if land shown as NA does not fulfil criteria set for it, the municipal commissioner can pass an order to consider it as no development zone/special development zone (NDZ/SDZ) where construction activities to create affordable houses are permitted.
 
 Environmentalist D   said, “It is a ploy to grab salt pans and wetlands by builders. Several salt pan owners have constructed walls to divert water flow in order to dry salt pans in  . The government will now say these areas do not satisfy NA norms. Last year they amended the wetland rule stating salt pan is not wetland.” Activists said mangroves areas which are NAs and under private ownership could also be targeted. The 500-acre Byramjee Jeejeebhoy land in  , of which about 105 acres is controlled by the  , could also be a beneficiary. Although the owners claim this parcel never had mangroves, citizen activists said there is proof mangroves were destroyed over 15 years ago.
 
 In the last DP, all wetlands (under government and private ownership) falling under Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) were declared as no development zones. In the new DP,   has divided such lands into two parts: NAs, after stating these areas are wetlands where no construction will be allowed, and NDZ (which they renamed special development zone or SDZ) which has been taken for development to create affordable housing.
 
 Town planners said in the new DP, NA areas have been marked taking into account the high tide line, which was defined in the CRZ notification. Now they say that high tide line has been reduced towards sea-side, because of which some portion of wetlands will become dry areas and can be used for construction activities. They stated that new high tide line will get reflected in the proposed new CRZ rules.
 
