CHENNAI: The   ( ) has stipulated new guidelines this year for conducting Jallikattu. For the first time the guidelines mandated the testing of   for administering drugs to enhance their performance.

 
 
 Bulls that are brought to the Jallikattu event has to be tested whether they have been administered with any drugs. This has to be done by a veterinarian from the   department.
 
 This is one of the important guidelines that has been given by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) for organising Jallikattu this season. The guidelines were issued by the board a few days ago.
 
 The district collectors where the Jallikattu event is held should ensure that the conditions imposed regarding the exhibition and participation of bulls has to be implemented by the organisers of the event and those who have registered animals. 
 
 The Collectors have to inform about the event to the Board a month prior to it. Only then the board can send its representative/animal inspectors or other observers to monitor the events. Double barricading has to be created by the organisers through the passage in which the bulls pass through to avoid any injury to the participants and the spectators, it said.
 
 Galleries have to be created using strong materials to enable the visitors to sit and watch the event. The number of persons to sit in a gallery should not exceed the numbers prescribed by the Public Works Department. This has to be ensured to avoid collapsing of the gallery and stampede. The organisers have to obtain a safety certificate from the local PWD authorities to ensure its safety, it said.
 
 The bulls should be put to cocaine and nicotine test before the event and the animal husbandry veterinarian has to issue a suitability certificate to the participating bulls that they are fit enough to take part in the event, it emphasised.
 
 Full-fledged medical facilities should be available at the arena to provide immediate medical attention to the injured participants. A mobile hospital and an ambulance with lifesaving drugs has to be kept ready near the event place to transport the injured victims to the nearby hospital, it said.
 
 Potable water supply and proper sanitation facilities have to be ensured by the local body authorities in and around the event venue. An exclusive dress has to be given to the tamers to identify them easily from the others, it further added.
 
 
