CHANDIGARH: Supply of vegetables and milk to the urban areas of Haryana remained disrupted and an incident of altercation between dairy owners and protesters was reported on the first day of the 10-day ‘Gaon Bandh’ protest call by various peasant outfits across Haryana on Friday.

 Worst affected areas were Kaithal, Kurukshtra, Hisar and Fatehababd districts where farmers blocked roads and seized the trucks and vehicles carrying vegetables and other supplies to the urban areas.
 
 Haryana is one of the seven states where the farmers have started the agitation to press for the demand of implementation of the recommendations of the   commission about higher remuneration for their produce and also complete farm loan waiver.
 
 In Kaithal and Kurukshetra, farmers scattered vegetables on the roads, especially on the national highway. While some agitating farmers blocked the milk vans and snatched milk packets of Vita for the use of chhabeel (sweetened milk and water).
 
 In Fatehabad, the farmers seized a milk tanker and spilled the milk on the road. Police booked 50 protesters in two cases registered at Fatehabad Sadar police station. The cases are lodged for snatching of the milk tanker and an attempt to loot a dairy on the outskirts of Fatehabad.
 
 Among the district where maximum effect of the farmers’ strike could be seen included Kurukshetra, Jind, Yamunangnar and Sirsa. Vita plants received lesser supply from the villages for processing, sources said.
 
 Media advisor to the Haryana chief minister Rajiv Jain termed the incidents and the farmers’ strike as politically-motivated to destabilize the farm growth of the state. “What stopped the   from implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan panel. Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the chairman of that committee. What stopped him from forcing the then   government,” said Jain.
 
 As the farmer leaders have refused to budge and announced to intensify their stir with each passing day, Haryana DGP B S Sandhu claimed that measures had been put in place.
 
 In a written communication, addressed to DCs and SPs and police commissioners, Sandhu asked them to make appropriate arrangements to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 “Nobody will be allowed to take law in their hands and strict action would be taken against those who indulge in arson, violence and damage life or property. No one would be allowed to disrupt the movement of passengers or goods traffic on railway tracks, national and state highways in the state,” Sandhu said.
 
 Police officers have been asked to maintain close coordination with DCs, SDMs and tehsildars for appointment of duty magistrates and promulgation of prohibitory orders. “Apart from this, all police officers would maintain close coordination with the railways, Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the National Highway Authority of India ( ) to plan necessary action to prevent any untoward incident,” the DGP said.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress has announced its support to farmers’ bandh. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Haryana in charge Naveen Jaihind termed the farmer’s protest as an outcome of BJP’s failure of protecting the interests of farmers. “Unfortunately, those who used to organize half nude protests for farmers have now gone into hiding after seeing the condition of farmers,” said Jai Hind.
 
 ‘Come to villages for stock’
 
 Haryana unit chief of   (BKU) Gurnam Singh Charuni said farmers would now intensify the stir. “We have cut supplies from villages to the cities. Residents of cities can come to the villages to buy the essential farm commodities,” he said.
 
 
