By- Kapil Koranne

 Life has become difficult in the   area, which forms   1 under the  .
 
 This summer, we’ve had power outages lasting 12 hours. It seems all of Dhanori is ‘urban’ in description only — I have seen far-flung villages with better amenities.
 
 Take for example the case of the residents of  , where I live. We are struggling to secure even the most basic of civic amenities.
 
 There are more than 22 housing societies within Tushar Park, accommodating over 500 families.
 
 Even though we pay all the relevant property and PMC taxes and bills for water, electricity and other services, we hardly receive any water or power supply. In fact, this entire area can go without a single drop of supplied water for up to 15 days in a row.
 
 As a result, residents are today forced to pay hefty sums to private water tankers to cover their daily water requirements. How much you ask? Well, one water tanker can cost between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,400. A small housing society of 20 flats will need at least one water tanker per day. This means budgets of residents’ associations go for a toss. A small association can end up spending as much as Rs 39,000 each month on water tankers alone.
 
 Like I said, it’s not just about water. The electricity supply is no better. The entire area faces frequent and long power-cuts. Residents, including myself, have been forced to endure sleepless nights this summer all thanks to erratic power. For anyone asking how life has been impacted, I have this to say: try getting through a work day on just two to three hours of sleep.
 
 These power-less nights are starting to take a toll on families here. People wake up all tired or frustrated in the mornings; the children are not spared either. No child should be going to school on just a few hours of sleep. Also, in the absence of electric supply, it is impossible to lift water to overhead tanks.
 
 Dhanori was and is still an upcoming area, but it is really lagging behind in providing basic civic amenities.
 
 The writer is a resident of Dhanori
 
