Kozhikode: Two more persons have died of   infection, taking the death toll to 15 on Wednesday, health officials said.

 While P Madhusoodan, 55, a senior clerk at the district court died at a private hospital, Akhil, 28, who was admitted on Tuesday, succumbed to the virus at the medical college hospital.
 
 The condition of two confirmed Nipah patients at the medical college hospital remained unchanged.
 
 A senior health services official, said, Karassery-resident Akhil’s death followed hours after he tested positive for the brain-damaging virus.
 
 The test result triggered fresh concerns since he was not in the contact list prepared by the health department; nor was he from any of the areas where Nipah was earlier reported.
 
 Earlier, briefing the media, director, health services, Dr R L Saritha said the youth was admitted to the Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Officials, however, could not get the history of the person since he was “disoriented.”
 
 The latest development prompted the health department to widen the ‘list of contacts.’
 
 “There are 1,353 persons in the expanded list and we are closely monitoring the conditions of each person in the list,” Dr Saritha said.
 
 As many as nine persons were now hospitalized with suspected Nipah symptoms, including two admitted on Wednesday.
 
 To a specific question, Dr Saritha said there has not been any information on the death of a soldier, suspected to be affected by the Nipah virus, in Kolkata.
 
 Dr V R Rajendran, the principal of the   Medical College, said medicines from Australia would arrive within a few days.
 
 “The details for shipment have already been sent,” he said.
 
 District collector U V Jose said the decision on reopening of schools would be reviewed after considering the situation in the district. Earlier, the reopening has been postponed to June 5.
 
 “We had said that it was a tentative decision,” he said.
 
 In a separate but related development, officials of the animal husbandry department trapped three fruit-eating bats, the natural hosts of the virus. They would be tested for Nipah virusorous bats. 
 
 
