Prachi Arya

 Actor  , better known as Shekhar Gupta of 'Pavitra Rishta', and  , his co-actor in the show ' ', were recently in the city to promote their show. For Karan, it was his first visit to the   city, while Jiyaa was here last year to promote another show of hers. The duo, who had heard a lot about Lakhnawi khana, visited a popular eatery in town to have the famous galawat kebabs. "This is my first visit to Lucknow, and I just loved the kebabs. In fact, I also plan to visit Hazratganj to shop for chikan clothes and to see the monuments in old Lucknow," said Karan, adding, "Architecturally, if I may say,   is ahead of any other city. The monuments here are breathtakingly beautiful." Having a heard a lot about the city from his wife Nandita, who hails from Allahabad, Karan further added, "My wife Nandita is well versed with this city and keeps telling me how beautiful Lucknow is and how rich its culture is."
 As for Jiyaa, the 'Queens Hain Hum' actress, was expecting a lot from this visit as she was deprived of shopping and food the last time when she was here. "This time I am glad that we could take out time and could have the kebabs, which is the speciality here. I just love street food so probably that is also on my wish list while I am here in Lucknow. I have some friends from Lucknow who told me about the city and Hazratganj, which is a shopping hub. So first it will be food and then shopping for me," said Jiyaa.
 
  
  Karan Suchak and Jiyaa Shankar in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 The duo was in Banaras also, recently, to shoot some episodes of the show. Both of them had great time shooting at the ghats and other famous places in the city. Sharing his experience of shooting in Varanasi, Karan said, "Shooting in Banaras was a divine feeling. It is such a unique place we have in India. The moment you land in the city and visit those ghats, the aura is magical. One will never get such an experience in any part of the world. It’s all about aartis, bhajan keertan, right from the morning till 10 at night. So we are listening to bhajan and at the same time we are shooting, which was awesome!"
 Karan adds, "It is such a divine feeling to shoot in Varanasi, and then we come back with such a peaceful mind and heart. People are really sweet there. In fact, I think UP people are actually sweet and warm, and since my wife is from UP, so I know better."
 But playing a typical   boy in the show wasn’t easy for Karan. "The only thing which I found a bit difficult in portraying Akhilesh Yadav, my character in the show, was getting the hang of the proper dialect of UP. Since my wife is from UP, she helped me out on this. Then I also used to converse with people in Banaras to know the language better," said he.
 As for Jiyaa, the maha aarti at the ghats in Varanasi had captured her heart. “I attended the maha aarti and the Kashivishwanath aarti at the ghats and after that, I think I know why people travel to such place at least once in their life time,” she said.
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
