KOLKATA: Have you been looking the other way, hoping   (KMC) will roll back its new system for assessing property tax and retain the old one? Well, looks like time’s up. From April,   will send inspectors from the assessment department to knock on individual households and hand out Unit Area Assessment ( ) forms that the latter have been evading for nearly a year now.

 Not just that. Lest house owners stash the form away and forget to submit it, the inspectors will knock once again a week later to collect the filled up forms. If someone fails to submit it, KMC will assess the property on its own and send the tax bill based on UAA.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “An unnecessary scare about the new property tax calculation method has kept assessees from embracing the new UAA method. We need to put an end to this irrational fear,” mayor   said after presenting the civic budget on Saturday.
 
 Less than a fifth of assessees in Kolkata have so far applied for the switch to UAA. This impacted the civic authority’s tax collection. Sources in the assessment department said civic authorities has set a fresh target of Rs 998 crore in property tax for the next fiscal beginning this April 1. “Going by current trends, it appears an uphill task,” said a KMC revenue department official.
 
 The mayor conceded the decision to send inspectors to homes had been forced by the unwillingness of so many tax payers to make the switch. “Since property owners are not visiting KMC offices to collect the forms and submit them, we have to visit homes and do the needful,” he said.
 
 Though KMC had introduced UAA last April, response has been lukewarm with only 50,000 of the 2.75 lakh assessees opting for it and submitting the application.
 
 The wariness of the taxpayers though is understandable as the civic authorities haven’t taken enough initiative to educate them about why it is a better and more fair way of calculating property tax. Also, instead of introducing a simple application form, it is so complex that even some KMC staff find it difficult to comprehend.
 
 Admitting that some sections of the form is complicated, a senior assessment department official said the civic top brass had approved engagement of property tax consultants to help property owners fill the form and submit them to KMC offices. KMC will soon fix and announce the service charge for these consultants.
 
 KMC assessment department officials have already decided not to issue mutation certificates to owners of newly constructed apartments or houses unless they go for UAA. “We are asking applicants to first fill up selfassessment forms under UAA. Only then will they be eligible for mutation,” a KMC official said.
 
