NEW DELHI: Imagine chatting with your chatbot about the chances of sudden showers on a summer morning or about the new traffic bottleneck to avoid on the way to work. Once at work, imagine finding the content you just wanted to read with a special offer on the product you needed to buy. Well, we don’t need to imagine anymore.

 Chatbots, over 40,000 of them, are our new technology friends, on our chosen messaging interface. They aim to engage with us, answer our queries or just, listen to us. No wonder then that over 80% global company is investing in   with hopes of saving over $8 million annually and the market is growing at over 30% annually.
 
 For you and I, what does this mean? Haptik, India’s first and one of the world’s largest end-to-end omnichannel chatbot platforms leading the revolution in chatbots, has released their report, “Chatbots: A Conversation between Tech and Story,” answering all the questions we might have around using, adopting and even building chatbots.
 
 Helper (Customer Service), Seller (advertising), Teacher (content), Solver (digital assistants), Storyteller (Advertising) – there can be 5 types of chatbots based on the purpose they serve for us. Let’s take the case of the helper. Helper is basically an agent who has been trained through millions of conversations (Artificial intelligence and machine learning for the jargon lovers) to answer our questions exactly when we need solutions. Beyond the Helper brigade, we see companies experimenting with the four other types of chatbots with varying measures of success. Can they work?
 
 The best ones will not just show better performance metrics in terms of engagement, speed and satisfaction but also have a strong character and design that make us want to speak to them and not make the conversation artificial.
 
 With more companies innovating, a chatbot to track mental health, a chatbot to teach lessons to kids who cannot afford tutors or a chatbot to help drive disease prevention may not be too far in the future. Till then, we would like the chatbots to become better conversationalists. After all, that’s what they claim to do – bring the art of conversation back to technology. Here’s the link to the 
 .
 
