JAIPUR : Sounds of gunshots, gangs on prowl, and brazen acts of murders on streets seems to have become commonplace in Rajasthan. Five cases of  , including that of a police constable and a property builder in Jaipur in past two days, have shocked cops and locals alike.

 The state police are in a bind following multiple acts of shootouts and murders across Jaipur, Alwar, Jhunjhunu and Jodhpur. While according to Rajasthan State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) the murders recorded a nominal decrease of 1.15 percent in 2016 in Rajasthan, the shocking frequency of murders on Thursday and Friday stunned everyone. 
  
 
 The dastardly trail of murders began at 8 pm on Thursday in Jaipur when a 45-year-old builder   was shot dead right outside his house in Jhotwara. The grisly new feature in this case included two unidentified bike-borne posing themselves as courier delivery boys, who rang doorbell of Singh’s house. As soon as Singh stepped out, the assailants fired at his chest and fled.
 
 A profusely bleeding Singh was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to the injuries. The Jaipur police have not ruled out the possibility of contract killers being hired for the murder.
 
 Around same time at 8.30 pm on Thursday, two masked men on a bike fired multiple shots at the house of a historysheeter   in Shri Ram Nagar locality, under the limits of Choupasni police station in Jodhpur west.
 
 While Bhambhani was not hurt in the firing, the guns shots triggered panic in the city which had witnessed protests and rallies when a businessman   was shot dead in a similar manner in August last year. 
 
 About 10 hours later after Bhawani Singh’s shocking murder, a tied up body of a 50-year-old constable Khayali Ram was recovered from bushes in Kotputli area in Jaipur rural. The constable was missing since Thursday morning.
 
 If that was not enough, a 20-year-old salesman at a petrol pump in Pilani in JhunJhunu was shot dead in the wee hours of Friday. Four masked men came in a car and shot dead Vikas, who was killed on the spot. In Khetri in JhunJhunu itself, a 26-year-old youth’s body was found in a well. The police said that victim Pradeep Kumar was murdered before his body was dumped in the well.
 
 Alwar also remained under the grip of panic and fear after a 38-year-old businessman Mukesh was shot dead on Friday evening in Khairtal area. The unidentified miscreants fled from the spot after taking his bag containing cash. The incident sparked protests in the area with shopkeepers closing their shops in protest.
 
 
