JAIPUR: Dragging governor   into the factional feud in the  , rebel MLA Ghanshyam Tiwari alleged that Singh signed the controversial legislation of Vasundhara Raje government to provide lifelong government bungalow and other facilities of a cabinet minister for ex-CMs as Singh too was a beneficiary of similar law in Uttar Pradesh that has now been scrapped by the SC.

 
 The senior BJP MLA, while addressing the media, said, the Deendayal Vahini, of which he is the patron, would organise dharna at the Civil Lines crossing and burn the copy of the controversial Rajasthan Minister’s Salaries Act 2017 on Friday demanding chief minister Vasundhara Raje to vacate 13, Civil Lines bungalow in the light of SC order.
 
 He said, the Rajasthan governor had also utterly failed to discharge his constitutional responsibility and a party to the crime by giving assent to an anti-constitutional law. “I had sought time from the governor, but he did not give time. Then I wrote to him not to sign the Bill under pressure. But the governor invited the chief minister for dinner and later signed the controversial Rajasthan Ministers Salaries (Amendment) Bill 2017,” said Tiwari.
 
 He also alleged the opposition   is also a partner in the crime. Tiwari said that when he raised the issue of residence for former chief ministers in the assembly during the Congress time, former chief minister Ashok Gehlot said, “If Kataria (Gulab Chand) approved, I will scrap the provision. But Kataria remained silent and   stood up pleaded for not to abolish the provision,” said Tiwari.
 
 The senior BJP MLA from Sanganer said that if the chief minister has left with any morality, she should immediately vacate the 13 Civil Lines Bungalow and shift to the official chief minister’s residence. The chief minister is currently occupying two bungalows, one allotted as the opposition leader where she is presently staying and other, 8 Civil Lines, the official residence of the chief minister.
 
 He said, several crores were spent for the refurbishment of 13 Civil Lines bungalow and the amount spent should be recovered from her as it is illegal. Besides, there is a need for installing CCTV cameras outside the house as there is chances of the gadgets installed at the cost of public exchequer could be stolen as has happened in the past.
 
 Replying to a question he said that “Rajasthan BJP is a pap(sin) and even if he was offered the post of state president, he would not be part of BJP as the post has now got no value left. Tiwari said he is now only technically in the BJP and is all set to part ways with the saffron party . He said he had won from Sanganer seat despite the opposition by Raje and owes nothing to the party. 
 
 Speaking on the tug of war between the state and central leadership of the party over the appointment of the state party chief vacated by Ashok Parnami, he said ‘Vasundhara bhari hai’.
 
