SHIMLA: The   high court has directed the Shimla district administration to remove encroachments along 2-km stretch on the road from Sanjauli Tunnel, Dhalli side up to Mashobra/Kufri junction and from Sanjauli/Dhalli bypass road from the Government College for Boys up to Dhalli Bus Stand.

 Referring to the affidavit filed by superintending engineer, National Highway Circle, Shimla on December 16 last year, a division bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice Ajay Mohan Goel in an order issued on January 1 observed that on this 2-km stretch at least 76 encroachments have been identified. The court said the process of identifying more encroachments is progressing.
 
 "However, the affidavit is conspicuously silent as to whether any structure stands constructed unauthorisedly i.e. beyond the sanctioned plan/limits, or not," the high court added.
 
 Referring to the petition, the high court said it is concerned with the encroachments on government land and unauthorised constructions raised alongside the roads.
 
 Referring to the Sanjauli/Dhalli byepass road stretch, the bench said the affidavit was silent on all aspects. The HC was informed the stretch was under the control and supervision of the state PWD (Executive Engineer, Division No.1, Shimla).
 
 "Whether government land stands encroached or not? Whether land owners have raised construction within the acquired/controlled width or not? Whether the structures raised on both sides of this road uphill and downhill are in accordance with the municipal byelaws and sanctioned plans or not? Well, all these issues need to be addressed and examined by the authorities," the bench said.
 
 The reason to do so is simple, the HC said. "These two roads are the main arterial roads, leading to the borders of the nation as also places of significance and importance from the point of trade, tourism and pilgrimage. They alone cater to the tribal areas of the state. The entire economy of more than two districts is dependent on the roads being free from any obstructions."
 
 The HC said traffic has to flow freely and smoothly. Also, being the state capital and more so, the state hospital are accessible only through these roads. These roads cannot be allowed to be either encroached or construction raised in violation of law, it added.
 
 On being informed the total length of these roads is not more than 6 km, the HC directed the Shimla municipal corporation commissioner to have the roads inspected himself and file an affidavit dealing with the directions issued by the court from time to time in several writ petitions.
 
 The bench added that if any one of the owners raised a construction or was in the process of doing so in violation of the law, the commissioner must forthwith take appropriate action, in accordance with law, instantly directing disconnection of water and electricity to the concerned premises and the authorities shall also identify all encroachers and take steps for their removal.
 
 The HC said Shimla DC and superintendent of police should ensure compliance of this order. During the hearing, the amicus curiae pointed out that structures could have been built in violation of not only the   Roadside Land Control Act & HP Road Infrastructure Protection Act, but also the municipal laws. Next date of hearing has been fixed on January 5.
 
 
