KOZHIKODE: With the onset of summer severely diminishing the flow in  , the lone water source inside   (WWS), the forest department has barred farmers from pumping water from the river for irrigation purposes.

 Large-scale pumping of water from the river, which flows through the WWS for over 30 km, for commercial ginger and coffee cultivation has triggered drought scare in the sanctuary. WWS is now teeming with wild animals following summer migration from adjoining sanctuaries in Karnataka and   in search of water and fodder. 
  
 
 Environmentalists said unrestricted pumping of water from the river would lead to scarcity of water for the wildlife, forcing them to stray out of the forests in the ensuing hot months.
 
 “We have asked all farmers to stop using the river water. Our top priority is to ensure water availability for wildlife. We would patrol the river stretch to check illegal pumping,” Wayanad wildlife warden N T Sajan said.
 
 Ajayghosh V, assistant wildlife warden (Muthanga range), said the department has found seven instances of pumping of river water to plantations in Maikkara and Kumizhi alone.
 
 Environmentalists said diesel pump sets were being operated for long hours in the night. “Operating pump sets inside the sanctuary is illegal. The water is being pumped continuously from 8pm to 5am in the morning. Also, the sound of diesel pump sets operating along the river stretch in the night causes serious disturbance to animals and birds. Further, they have installed pump sets on forest land and some are located on the elephant walkways leading to the river,” pointed out N Badusha, president of Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi.
 
 He added that residents have even reported instances of wild crackers being thrown at animals including elephants to prevent them from coming to the river and near the pump sets.
 
 Environmentalist also pointed out that illegal pumping was affecting the water supply to many tribal settlements.
 
 Sajan said notices would be served to farmers to remove the pump sets installed along the river banks.
 
 Noolpuzha, one of the four tributaries of the east- flowing  , originates from Nellakotta in Tamil Nadu. It flows mostly through forests of Wayanad and joins the Kabani at Birwall in Karnataka.
 
 
