PATNA: The commissioner of railway safety (CRS), eastern circle, P K Acharya, inspected the newly electrified Tilaiya- Warsaliganj section of the Kiul-Gaya route in the Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) on Saturday. An electric locomotive made a successful trial run on a stretch of about 28km electrified route.

 According to ECR chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, this route is important in the sense that railways could now run goods trains carrying coal wagons directly from Tilaiya to the Barh NTPC super thermal power station. Railways is already carrying out track doubling work on the Kiul-Gaya section with an aim to ease out traffic load on the route, he said, adding railways has already built a segregated flyover tracks between Bakhtiyarpur and Barh stations to run goods trains over the flyover tracks on the mainline Patna-Jhajha route. 
 
 He said compared to 130km electrification work during 2016-17, railways completed electrification work up to 429km during 2017-18 fiscal, which was a record for the ECR. 
 
 According to Kumar, the major routes on which railways had completed electrification work included Barauni-Katihar, Barauni- Muzaffarpur-Hajipur-Chhapra and Bakhtiyarpur-Rajgir-Tilaiya-Gaya routes to fulfil the needs of traffic operations as well as increase the speed limit of both goods and passenger trains on the electrified routes under the ECR, he said.
 
 Besides, the ECR made a record freight loading of 128.5 million tonne during 2017-2018, which was 12.3 million tonne more than the stipulated target. Thus, the ECR made an increase of about 4% in the freight loading segment during 2017-2018 fiscal, the CPRO said, adding the ECR ranks fourth in freight loading in the country.
 
 The ECR mostly carries loading of major products like petrol, oil, lubricants, cement and coal to other neighbouring zonal railways during the last fiscal giving a boost to railway revenue earnings. It’s Dhanbad division is, in fact, the mainstay for the railways, particularly in the freight loading segment, the CPRO said. 
 
 
