AGRA: Students of up to three classes are forced to share an eight by ten foot room due to the lack of classrooms at   here. Teachers manage by making each class face a certain wall during lessons. 

 The rooms are often dingy, with no electricity and little ventilation. Teachers said the situation did not let them admit new students at the schools.
  
  Classes are also held in galleries of schools when the classrooms fail to suffice. Bal Goverdhan Das Primary School and the basic education schools in Basai Khurd, Nala Bhairon, Trans Yamuna locality, Itmad-ud-daulah, Kala Basai, Idgah locality are among the institutions where students face this problem.
  
  A teacher of a primary school in   locality said on the condition of anonymity that she saw students of the first, second and third class huddle in a room. She added that she had to cancel several admission forms due to the lack of space. “Those that are willing to study are being deprived. Around 45 to 60 students, belonging to class I, II and III study in one classroom while 30 to 45 students of class IV and V study in another,” she said.
  
  A teacher from a school in Itmad-ud-daulah locality said, “Due to the lack of space in classrooms, we teach in galleries of the school premises. The number of students increases every year. The classrooms are quite small and we have difficulties fitting students into them.”
  
  A teacher from a   said, “Complaining to the officials is of no use as we never received a good response whenever we brought their attention to the issue. So I arrange for the students to study in the school gallery. Apart from the gallery, all we have in the school is one small room.”
  
  Secretary of primary schools of the city, Rajeev Verma, said that the officials should either shift the schools to better locations or erect a new building for the students to study without interruption. “It is not possible for students of more than three classes to study in one small room. Officials of the education department should take the issue up on a priority basis,” said Verma.
  
  Talking to TOI in this regard, basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) Archana Gupta said, “We will work to solve the problem of overcrowding in classes and ask for a list of such schools in the city.”
