NEW DELHI: The   will on Tuesday deliver its verdict on the appeal filed by cricketer-turned politician Navjot Singh   and his friend challenging their conviction and three-year jail term awarded by the   and Haryana High Court in a   in which one person died.

 A bench of Justices J Chelameswar and Sanjay Kishan Kaul will also deliver verdict on a cross appeal filed by the victim’s family seeking enhancement of the jail term to them.
 
 On December 27, 1988, Sidhu and Rupinder Singh Sandhu got into an argument with one   over parking space in Patiala. Sidhu and his fried had allegedly dragged Singh out of his car and dealt him a series of blows, causing his death. When Jaswinder Singh, who was with Gurnam Singh, tried to intervene, Sandhu had also assaulted him.
 
 A sessions court acquitted Sidhu and Sandhu in 1999 but the order was quashed by the HC which convicted them and awarded three year jail term in 2006. Sidhu and Sandhu approached the   which had stayed their conviction.
 
 As the Supreme Court started final hearing in the case eleven years after the appeal was filed, Sidhu and his friend contended that the victim died of heart attack and they could not be held guilty for it.
 
 The Congress-led Punjab government had opposed the plea of Sidhu, who is a minister in the state government, for acquittal in the case and contended that there was no error in the HC verdict. It said findings of the HC that Gurnam Singh did not die due to cardiac arrest, but due to injury on the temporal region was correct and should be upheld by the apex court.
 
 The HC had convicted Sidhu and his friend on the basis of medical report of the deceased. A Board of Doctors had given its opinion attributing the cause of death of Gurnam Singh as head injury and cardiac condition.
 
 In the opinion of one of the doctors, who was a prosecution witness, subdural haemorrhage was present over the left parietal region and brain, and this haemorrhage, and not cardiac arrest, caused the victim’s death.
 
 The board had stated that the head injury itself could be sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature.
 
 
