Vijayawada: The cash registers of liquor shops in the city continued to ring till late in the night on New Year’s Eve. With the excise department allowing them to sell liquor till 1am on New Year’s Day, the wine shops and bars saw huge crowds of guzzlers, competing to procure bottles of liquor at the last minute. The city roads were bustling with people roaming on bikes and cars extending New Year’s wishes to one another.

 Liquor sales touched new highs, breaking all records this year in the city. The city topped liquor sales list in state with Rs 6.91 crore worth of liquor sold on December 31, 2017. Interestingly people consumed more beer than liquor in 2017. The sale of beer increased by 46% in the city when compared to last year. The sale of liquor on December 31 this year also increased by 39% when compared to New Year’s eve in 2016.
 
 The demand for premium range liquor also increased in the city last year. New concept wine shops set-up in the city, with wide range of foreign brands, witnessed unprecedented sale of premium brands. K Ramesh, who owns Hangover wine parlour on Tikkle Road, said: “People prefer premium scotch whiskeys for New Year’s party. We also offered 5% discount, and gifts, on the purchase of premium brands.”
 
 Bars and wine shop-owners piled up stocks anticipating huge sales in the last days of last year. This trend was observed more in rural areas, where they planned well in advance, so as to not run out of stocks at the last minute. Another reason for sales to go up in rural areas is that the kharif season gave bumper yields in Krishna delta last year. Living up to the expectations of the wine shop owners, the rural areas witnessed a substantial increase in liquor sales this year. Interestingly, beer sales went up in rural areas of Krishna district, and also in Vijayawada city and other towns. While some wine shops, having large refrigerators made adequate arrangements to serve chilled beer, those who did not have such facilities, put up boards requesting customers not to ask for chilled beer. However, almost every wine shop in the city ran out of chilled beers by 8 pm.
 
 With the crackdown on belt (unlicensed) shops and low profit margins in the new liquor policy introduced this year, some shops set up one-day belt shops, and dumped stocks to their old contacts in the city. Some even hiked the price for chilled beers in the peak hours when the mad rush for liquor started after 7pm.
 
 Police and excise officials pitched in for enforcement duties. They deployed their men to check illegal sale of liquor, and avoid untoward incidents at bars and wine shops. Police set-up zig-zag barricades to prevent rash driving on main roads such as MG Road, Eluru Road, BRTS Road, and Inner Ring Road. Drunk driving check points were also set-up across the city. Police across in surrounding areas also maintained strict vigil to avoid any untoward incident. They warned revellers not to drink and drive.
 
 Excise superintendent of Krishna district, G Muralidhar, told TOI that sales usually increases during New Year’s Eve, and this year is no exception. “Belt shops in the city have been completely shut down, and we have taken special measures to prevent illegal sale of liquor. As the permission was given to sale liquor for two more hours, the wine shops were warned not to resort to unauthorised sales,” he said. “Our men were deployed across the city, and if anyone found violating the rules, we will initiate action against the wine shops,” he warned.
 
 The trend across the state also reflected with increase in beer sales in urban areas, and liquor sales in rural areas. However, unlike in Vijayawada, the sale on the last day of the year saw a dip across some districts. This was mainly because wine shop owners purchased the stocks well in advance for the New Year’s Eve. December month increased by 33.6% in terms of sale value. The liquor sales increased by 8.7% and beer sales increased by a huge margin of 36% across the state in terms of quantity.
 
 
