NEW DELHI: For the second day running,   chief Rahul Gandhi on Friday taunted PM   over repeated escape by scamsters from the country, saying   and Lalit Modi have a common 'NaMo' link.

 
 The barb at the PM came as Congress amplified its charge that the PMO and enforcement agencies were made aware of the brewing scam, related to the part of Nirav's uncle and   owner  , as early as mid-2015. The party also made public a video to show that the PM knew Choksi "intimately".
 
 He tweeted about the Modis' flight from India - "The scamster's escape formula: La(Mo)+Ni(Mo) + Na(Mo) = Bha(Go)" - writing it as a chemical equation with the PM shown as the 'catalyst'. It was posted with the hashtag "ModiRobsIndia".
 
 Addressing a press conference, AICC spokespersons Randeep Surjewala, Shaktisinh Gohil and Pawan Khera alleged that the   fraud of Rs 11,000 crore had over two days touched Rs 21,306 crore. "If all the layers of this scam are opened up, the scam will go up to Rs 30,000 crore," they said.Congress played a video to counter law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad's distancing of the PM from Nirav Modi in view of the Davos picture featuring him. The video purportedly showed the PM in 2015 referring to Choksi as "hamare Mehul bhai".
 
 A day after saying that a Bengaluru-based businessman had in mid-2016 alerted the PMO that Choksi was authoring a scam in his banking operations, Congress said another businessman Vaibhav Khuaniya had on May 7, 2015, sent a complaint to the corporate affairs ministry with letters to PMO and agencies like ED and Sebi.
 
 Surjewala said despite the fraud being under way, Nirav Modi was in the business delegation of the World Economic Forum. Congress said the Centre had given a new meaning to its motto of the low-cost flying scheme "Udaan". "Every scamster can flee and fly undetected and unchecked," Surjewala said. Congress said it was sad that ministers for social justice and for law were talking about the "biggest scam of independent India" but the finance minister and the PM were silent on the issue.
 
