JAIPUR: The civic bodies in the state capital has imposed a complete ban road cuttings. The government agencies and private companies who were carrying out digging works to lay cables are also been directed to restore the existing road cuts in the city. 

 Acting on the high court orders, the   ( ) and   (JMC) swung into action and issued the directions.
 
  An official informed, at present the civic bodies have issued 55-km road cutting permission to lay cables in the city. Now, the ban is imposed till the time existing roads cuts are repaired. Moreover, the   and other companies have to submitted an affidavit along with photographs on which date of repairing the road cuts was done. 
 
 Recently, many Telecom companies who received permission for road-cutting to lay cables haphazardly dug the roads and footpaths. These companies allegedly flouted the norms and work against the sanctioned permission , which resulted in monetary loss for JDA and JMC.
 
 "To save money, the companies deposit money for road cuts only for half areas. They dug remaining area without seeking permission. For example, if a firm has to lay cable in 10 km area, road cutting fees for only 4-km is deposited. The remaining road is dug up illegally." 
 
 An official further informed, road digging and the inconvenience caused by it may become a thing of the past as JDA has mooted a plan to promote trenchless road utility works for laying of pipelines and cables.
 
 The civic bodies would also soon spell out guidelines for granting permissions to utilities and municipal agencies for road excavation and tarring. The JDA has proposed a single-window clearance system for digging. This will avoid repeated excavation and ensure quality. It would also mandates all contractors to place information boards at their work sites.
 
 Like other cities, the JDA is also planning publish a schedule of road-digging works in advance by service providers, including telecom and gas companies, to make citizens aware and avoid inconvenience. 
 
 
