BHUBANESWAR:   gave a vastly improved performance to seal their spot in the main round of the Super Cup with a convincing 4-1 win over Chennai City FC here on Friday evening. Shortly afterward, their player-manager   shared his views with TOI on various issues, ranging from his experiences in India to ATK’s chances in the Super Cup and his former club Tottenham Hotspur.

 
 
 
 
 
 The league ( ) has only started a few years ago, so these are still early days. They are trying to do the right things. Of course, there are lot of things that can be done do to make it better, but that would take a little bit of time. I have enjoyed the experience here, the culture and the people. Everybody has welcomed me with open arms.
 
 
 
 We weren’t good enough. When you finish ninth in the league, you clearly are not good enough. I can’t tell you why because I wasn’t here the previous years.
 
 
 
 We are definitely not the favourites. It is because the same teams that we played against in the league will be there along with a few I-League teams. What we can do with the little bit of momentum we have now is to try and give something back to our fans. Make no mistake, we will definitely go out there to try and win it. But the teams that finished ahead of us will be the favourites.
 
 
 
 Everything, the club itself, the people around. I have unbelievable memories of our League Cup win over Chelsea (2007-08). Playing at the White Hart Lane in front of the fans was fantastic. And I am very lucky that they always welcome me with open arms whenever I go back.
 
 
 
 They have a top team but teams ahead of them are doing that just little bit better. I hope Spurs will keep all the players together, add to the squad and maybe win some trophies. It would be nice if they win a trophy this year. A win in a Cup will give them a little bit of momentum going forward. I would like to see them doing that. Once they win a trophy, hopefully it will have a snowball effect.
 
 
 
 After watching VAR last week... it was terrible.
 
