PATNA: Security across the state has been beefed up after receiving intelligence inputs about fringe groups, reportedly agitating against caste-based reservation, planning protest march in several districts on Tuesday. A message has been viral on social media platforms for the past several days appealing people to take part in peaceful processions on April 10 to lodge protest against the   called by the dalit outfits and subsequent violence on April 2.

 Sources said Union ministry of home affairs has also issued precautionary guidelines to all states regarding the   on social media, especially WhatApp.
 
 ADG (headquarters) SK Singhal said six companies of central armed police force (CAPF) have been deployed in Patna, Motihari, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Begusarai and Darbhanga districts. “Forces have been deployed according to necessity and sensitivity of the area. They have been mobilized for other districts also,” Singhal said, adding some fringe groups are using social media to spread rumours. He said all senior officials have been asked to remain on alert. He said security measures have been taken on intelligence inputs received from central intelligence agencies as well as special branch.
 
 Patna zonal IG Nayyar Hasnain Khan said fringe groups in some districts had requested the local administration to allow them to take out procession. “But their request has been denied,” he said. “There is no organized call for bandh, but all the district magistrates and superintendents of police have been asked to make required security arrangements,” he said.
 
 Several schools in the state capital have been shut due to the message on social media. Private Schools and Children Welfare Association’s national secretary Mervyn Cowell told TOI over the phone that most of the schools in the state capital would remain shut on Tuesday as precautionary step. “Don Bosco Academy, St Karen’s High School, Notre Dame Academy, St Michael’s High School among other schools will remain closed,” he said.
 
 
