MUMBAI: Seven members of a Mumbai family, including two  , who were injured in the   approached the   on Tuesday seeking Rs 5 lakh each as   from the   and a   in the case. They have alleged lapses in the police investigation as, they claim, influential persons and public officials are involved. 

 Advocate Prakash Wagh, counsel for the petitioners—two are still in hospital while others are recovering at home after discharge—said the petition would be numbered on Wednesday and mentioned before the court. 
 
 “Ultimately because of the negligence and omissions on the part of the owners of the building, operators of the pub, hookah parlour and restaurant and officers of the municipal corporation, 14 persons lost their lives and many more suffered injuries... Therefore the state is liable to pay compensation,” said the petitioners. They said they have been incurring medical costs of over Rs 10,000 each daily. 
 
 The petitioners—Pratik Thakur (28), his wife Toral Thakur (30), her brothers Lokesh Parek (36) and Mayank Parekh (34), her sister-in-law Nupur Parekh (32) and cousins US nationals Neel (41) and Kosha Udani (36) — had visited 1Above on December 28 for dinner. According to the petitioners, the patrons of 1Above were not warned when the fire started around midnight at the adjacent Mojo’s Bistro. They alleged that the staff ran away and the patrons were stuck as there was only one exit for both restaurants and no fire exits. 
 
 "It is a duty of BMC Officers and fire brigade officials to see whether restaurants and bars in their jurisdiction have followed all safety norms... It appears that 1Above and Mojo violated the rules... The officers of BMC and fire brigade have deliberately and knowingly ignored all such violation of rules," the petitioners claimed. The petitioners have urged the court to direct the police to book the officials responsible for culpable homicide. "Owners and operators of the restaurant and bar and the buildings are influential persons. Mumbai Police is hesitating to take action against influential persons. It would be just and proper to hand over the investigation to the CBI for securing convictions," the petition says.
 
 
