NEW DELHI: Selling pakoras is not a matter of shame, comparing one who does so to a beggar is, BJP chief   said, taking a combative dig at   in his debut speech in the   even as he told the opposition that he was going to be around for the next six years. 

 
 “Hear me out... You will have to listen to me for six years,” Shah told the Congress benches on Monday when they sought to interrupt a feisty speech that saw him take on Congress chief   over his “Gabbar Singh Tax” jibe about GST during the Gujarat campaign.
 
 With PM   seated beside him, Shah slammed former finance minister   for equating a self-employed pakora-seller to a beggar.
 
 
 
 "What kind of mentality is this? Selling pakodas is not a shameful job, comparing one who does so to a beggar is. One who was unemployed is now making a living selling pakoras, his next generation will grow up to be a big industrialist. A teaseller’s son is now sitting in this House as PM,” BJP chief Amit Shah said.
 
 In defending the government’s record in the discussion on the President’s address to Parliament, Shah made it a point to argue that while he accepted unemployment was an issue, the government was dealing with a legacy issue. “It has taken a lot of time just to get out of the hole we were in,” he said.
 
 Shah, who spoke for 75 minutes as finance minister   listened intently and former PM   and leader of the opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad looked on, claimed BJP had put an end to the politics of dynasty, casteism and appeasement and given the country a transparent, decisive and sympathetic government.
 
 Countering Rahul’s description of GST as “Gabbar Singh Tax”, Shah said, “Gabbar Singh was a dacoit’s character in the film ‘Sholay’. Is it dacoity to impose a tax mandated by law? Those who call GST ‘Gabbar Singh Tax’ should know where it goes... it goes to one rank, one pension for the forces, ex-gratia for a martyr’s wife, Ujjwala Yojana that benefits poor women, houses for the poor. Instigating people not to pay tax is not a sign of good politics. Today we are in power, tomorrow it may be you... GST is a reform aimed at a bright future for the nation.” He also underlined how Congress chief ministers were part of unanimous decisions taken by the GST Council.
 
 Stating that the Modi government had inherited a “ditch” from UPA in 2014, he said, “The achievements of the government must thus be viewed in that context.”
 
 Apart from Jan Dhan Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana, electrification of 16,000 villages, health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family, Mudra Bank to fund start-ups, Skill India initiatives, crop insurance and neem-laced urea, Shah made it a point to mention the “improvement in the security situation in Kashmir and the surgical strikes launched days after the Uri attack saw 12 soldiers burnt alive”.
 
