CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s first electronic   testing track for cars, set up at  , is likely to be inaugurated on Friday. While the track was set up at cost of Rs 40lakh, the government plans to set up 13 such tracks across the state at an estimated Rs 10 crore.

 Designed by students of M Kumarasamy College of Engineering in Karur, it has a H-track, a slope and a   through which driving licence applicants should be able to drive without smashing into bollards or poles on the sides, said a senior state transport department official.
 
  
 While vibration sensors fitted to the bollards will raise an alarm when a vehicle slams into the sides, each applicant is allowed two chances and is declared failed only when the alarm rings for the third time.
 
 After this, the applicant is asked to drive along a 32-feet long slope, shaped like a platykurtic curve and embedded with aluminium sensors. Once the car crosses the one-third mark uphill, the sensors trigger the traffic signal attached to a pole fitted at the halfway mark. 
 
 The driver is expected to stop the upward slope for five seconds and continue downhill only after the signal turns green. An alarm goes off if the driver is unable to halt or proceed without rolling back. 
 
 Finally, the applicant should drive along a sharp curve and park at the end without hitting any of the seven bollards. “It would take at least 7-8 minutes for a person to complete the entire test. Before this, the candidate has to clear the conventional driving test at the existing ordinary track at Karur RTO,” the official added.
 
 A control room, set up right next to the track to monitor the movements, will spew out a report mentioning the number of hits along with the location if the candidate is declared failed. Aggrieved applicants can apply for a video of their driving test, to check their mistakes, by paying separately for that. Rates are yet to finalised by the government.
 
 Shanmuga Velayudam, professor and head of IT Department at MKCE, said that the 14-metre wide H-shaped track, with 54 bollards, had been set up at a Regional Transport Office (RTO) for the first time in the country.
 
 The government had spent nearly Rs 40 lakh towards the project for which nearly 25 students from MKCE worked for more than one and a half years with guidance from Pune-based Central Institute of Road Transport, Velayudham added.
 
 The team had sought references from similar pilot projects in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Bengaluru operated by private agencies for government. This will be the first completely government-run   testing track in the country.
 
 A testing track for two-wheelers, in the shape of ‘8’, is also constructed in the same site.
 
 
