PATNA: The   ( ) has accused the Medical Council of India (MCI) of discriminating against the institute. 

 Department of orthopaedics at IGIMS had applied for two seats for the degree of Master of Science (MS). “After the first assessment on August 10, 2017 and subsequent rejection, a compliance report was submitted to MCI in September. Another report was submitted by MCI assessors to the council with no assessment of the implementation of the compliance report. The allotment of seats was again rejected on the basis of the last report. One of the objections made was that a professor in the orthopaedics department is only an associate professor and he actually belonged to general surgery department,” head of orthopaedics department at IGIMS Dr   said.
 
 IGIMS director Dr N R   questioned the MCI credibility. “I will start issuing Diplomate of National Board (DNB) degrees under the National Board of Examination ( ) in all the subjects,” said Dr Biswas and added that in the last 2-3 years he has spent nearly Rs50 lakh on MCI inspections.
 
 MCI charges Rs2 lakh per inspection. The NBE gives DNB accreditations to the hospitals, which is similar to MCI inspection. “As per a notification issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, DNB degrees are considered equivalent to MD, MS, DM, MCh,” said an IGIMS faculty member.
 
 “Department of neuromedicine at IGIMS also did not receive approval for Doctorate of Medicine (DM) course, but the MCI approved the same to a private medical college in Pune. These colleges have the same shortage of facilities as stated in the objections made against the IGIMS department,” said head of neuromedicine department at IGIMS, Dr  .
 
 IGIMS departments of gastrointestinal surgery, neurosurgery and paediatrics surgery had applied for degree courses in Master Chirurgiae (MCh), whereas departments of cardiology, neuromedicine and nephrology had applied for DM courses.
 
 The departments of orthopaedics, surgery, gynaecology, medicine, paediatrics, ENT and eye had applied for MS courses. Also, departments of community medicine, general medicine and pathology had applied for MD course.
 
 Nonetheless, only department of pathology was approved five seats for MD course.
 
 
