NAGPUR: In an important ruling, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court held that if both parents are earning equal salary, they must share joint responsibility of the child in case they’re living separately.

 Partially granting respite to a man, who challenged family court verdict asking him to shell out Rs8,000 towards daughter’s maintenance, the HC asked him to bear the litigation costs borne by the daughter. The man had contended that his engineer wife earns same salary so he must not be burdened alone.
 
 “It’s not in dispute that both parents are engineers, holding responsible posts and earning handsome salaries. If that be so, it would be the responsibility of both the father and the mother of girl to bring up her. If the child requires a sum of Rs12,000 per month, it would be necessary for her mother to equally bear the expenses and the liability of each of them will be to the extent of Rs6,000 per month,” a division bench comprising Justice   (now retired) and Justice   ruled.
 
 The petitioner father had moved against his teenage daughter through her working mother challenging the family court’s verdict of August 17, 2016 that asked him to grant Rs8,000 a month maintenance for her educational and other expenses.
 
 The couple entered into a matrimony on November 11, 2002 and the daughter was born a year later on November 22. Five years later, both parents started living separately as some differences cropped up between them.
 
 The daughter, who was staying with the mother, filed a petition for monthly maintenance of Rs25,000, under Section 20 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act.
 
 She had contended that her father is an engineer working with a reputed company offering a handsome salary of Rs70,000 per month. Stressing the fact that she is pursuing studies from a central board school, the girl said she would need at least Rs25,000 per month to meet her basic needs.
 
 After recording its finding that the man was neglecting his daughter, the family court concluded that the girl be paid Rs12,000 per month maintenance. It asked the man to pay Rs8,000 while remaining amount would be contributed by her earning mother. 
 
 Challenging this verdict in HC, the petitioner argued that even his wife is a deputy executive engineer and earns a decent salary. He said when both parents are earning same salaries, the child’s responsibility should be shared equally. His wife, however, contended that it was the primary responsibility of the father to pay maintenance to the daughter.
 
 While partly allowing the man’s appeal, the HC observed that the family court committed error by not recording a single reason as to why the father is required to bear the financial burden to a higher extent than the mother.
 
 
