RAE BARELI: Congress president   filled in for his mother Sonia Gandhi who was to hold a janata darbar here on Wednesday morning.

 Sonia, who had come to her constituency after almost two years, was to reach out to the people as per tradition. However, she could not make it to the event hosted at  , where she had been putting up with son Rahul.
 
 To keep his mother’s word, Rahul attended the janata darbar.
 
 More than 300 people and organisations had reached the janata darbar. During his twohour interaction, Rahul assured all help to those who had complaints. Some had gone to invite Rahul and Sonia for weddings and other auspicious occasions in the family. Many clicked selfies with Rahul.
 
 Unchahar resident Rajesh, a person with a disability, said he requested Rahul for a tricycle.
 
 “I have heard they help everyone who comes to their janata darbar. So, I petitioned my request,” he said.
 
 The All India Teachers and Employees Welfare Association from Rae Bareli urged Sonia and Rahul to restore the old age pension scheme.
 
 Anganwadi and ASHA workers also registered their grievances so did party worker from the region Sriram Lakhan Singh Sonkar, who had come with son Surendra.
 
 “A paralysis attack has disabled me. I have urged Rahulji to support my treatment,” said Sriram.
 
 In the crowd was also a fan of Rahul with tattoos of him and Rajiv Gandhi on his chest. A native of Lucknow, Manoj said people called him   due to his adulation for the Congress chief. Referring to himself as ‘kalyug ka Hanuman’, Manoj said, “I am ready to do anything for (Rahul) bhaiya, the way Hanuman did for Ram.”
 
 After the janata darbar, Rahul left for a random visit to Salon, a block of Rae Bareli district which falls under his parliamentary constituency Amethi. Rahul landed at   village and first stopped at the upper primary school to interact with children. He asked students about their career goals and lauded a girl for speaking fluent English.
 
 In the village, Rahul stopped at the house of Sneh Lata Devi, who told him of her husband’s loan of Rs 5 lakh from a nationalized bank and how they were struggling to repay it. The woman urged Rahul to help her with a loan waiver.
 
 Next, at the primary health centre in Bethaura, the MP expressed anguish at the lack of cleanliness and absence of the medical officer.
 
 
 
