Chennai: The proposed conservancy   plan for the city is still awaiting administrative sanction from the state government more than six months after Greater Chennai Corporation sought public opinion on the project.

 The plan seeks to privatise conservancy work in eight additional zones besides the three already controlled by Ramky Enviro Engineers. The corporation had estimated Rs 142 crore initially to go through with privatisation. The proposal is part of the larger revamp of conservancy operations, including setting up waste-to-energy plants at the Perungudi and Kodungaiyur landfills.
 
 “The files are pending with the government. We can only proceed to call tenders after receiving administrative sanction,” said a senior official, adding that the plan has no obstacles at this stage.
 
 But one of the corporation’s prominent labour unions, CITU-affiliated Red Flag, has raised objections, with its general secretary P Srinivasulu saying the corporation chose to forward the proposal to the government despite counter opinions from residents at two public meetings in June 2017.
 
 “Residents were asked to pen down names, addresses and provide general comments on a piece of paper distributed in these meetings. These were then passed off as written consent for the project from public,” said Srinivasulu, a charge that corporation officials denied. A June 28, 2017 TOI report captured how there was vehement opposition to privatising conservancy work in eight zones in the city’s outlying areas.
 
 “When a private contractor is brought in, there is no guarantee of labourers being paid minimum wage as stipulated by government (around Rs 500 a day). Privatisation doesn’t mean efficiency. In Ramky operated zones, the number of   on the rolls have declined in the past few years,” said Srinivasulu, suggesting this was one of the reasons for garbage bins overflowing.
 
 Corporation officials instead blame residents. “Several people throw out garbage after the bins are cleared and this is reason for overflowing garbage cans,” an official said.
 
 If the corporation went ahead with privatisation, Srinivasulu said, the union would organise an indefinite strike starting January 23.
 
 
