DEHRADUN
  The representatives of Diploma Pharmacist Association,   conducted a meeting in   medical college hospital on Saturday in support of their five demands, which included restructuring of the pharmacist cadre, service rules for gazetted and non-gazetted pharmacists working in health department, allowance, pharmacist cadre guidelines and transfer of pharmacists deployed in sub-centres to hospitals. The association has threatened to go on strike if their demands are not met within a fixed timeframe by the state government.
 
  On January 14, a sixth biannual meeting will be held in Dehradun, where all pharmacists will assemble to select new office-bearers thereafter they will kick off their protest. “After the new office-bearers take charge, we shall immediately work on a strategy to get our long-pending demands met. It has been long since pharmacists' demands in the state have been overlooked and we all are working in a demotivated environment. All our demands are in accordance to the Pharmacy Act, 1948 and government should consider them a priority,” said BS  , chairperson DPA, Uttarakhand.
  According to the association, around 50 posts in pharmacist cadre are lying vacant for the past few years. One post of additional director pharmacy, one special officer, 10 associate pharmacy officers and 36 posts of chief pharmacist are lying vacant, they said.
  
  “In a majority of cases, even before a pharmacist gets the coveted position of a chief pharmacist, he or she reaches the age of retirement. There is no clarity on retirement age vis-à-vis promotion criteria. There is a lot of purposely created confusion which needs to be cleared. There is no point of asking a pharmacist to work in darkness and as an ignorant individual,” added  , general secretary, DPA.
  The pharmacists are also demanding transfers of all the 546 pharmacists deployed in the sub-centres to hospitals till now, saying they can be transferred from one sub-centre to another. Uttarakhand has about 850 pharmacists under DPA and along with these sub-centre pharmacists, there are around 1400 pharmacists that are working in the state for past 17 years, sans and guidelines or proper cadre.
