AMRITSAR:   in Punjab are upset over the Supreme Court asking whether the turban was an integral part of Sikhism. “Turban is an integral part of the Sikh attire, which is clearly mentioned in the Sikh rehat maryada (code of religious conduct). Forcing Sikh players to wear any other protective head gear is not right,” Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal told TOI on Saturday.

 The issue came to fore after the apex court on Friday asked whether wearing a turban was integral to Sikh religion. The court was hearing on a writ filed by cyclist Jagdeep Singh Puri challenging a local cycling association’s rules mandating wearing a helmet to participate in a competition. The SC gave example of Milkha Singh and Bishan Singh Bedi who played simply covering their heads.
 
 Reacting to the SC bench’s remarks, Longowal said that turban was Sikh’s pride and besides providing a Sikh its unique identity it also provided safety adding that a turbaned Sikh need not to wear helmet.
 
  president Jaswinder Singh advocate said, “Judges’ comments are very disheartening. As they are citing the example of Milkha Singh and Bishan Singh Bedi for not wearing turban, it seems like they want to encourage ‘patkas’. Why don’t they see former President Giani Jail Singh , former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and above all their ex-colleagues Justice J Shekhar wearing turbans”.
 
 “What right does the SC or as a matter of fact anyone else has to put a question mark on the proud symbol of Sikh identity?” said SAD (Delhi) chief Paramjit Singh Sarna.
 
 Stating that SC should refrain from interfering in the religious matters of any community, Sarna said “They should first perform their primary duty to protect the legal, human, civil and religious rights of the people that are under attack”.
 
 International legal director of a Sikh NGO, United Sikhs Majoinderpal Kaur said, “We have obtained statements from Akal Takhat and SGPC and we will also cite historical rehatnamae (codes of conduct) which we are confident will answer the SC’s questions”. He added that they would provide the evidence to advocate Rupinder Singh Suri, who has filed a writ in the SC on behalf of cyclist Jagdeep Singh, as requested by SC to show that a Sikh was mandated to wear the turban at all times.
 
 “There may be Sikh sportspersons who do not adhere to the tenets of their faith strictly. This must not stop other Sikhs from practicing their faith. We should look at the example of 107-year old-marathoner Bhai Fauja Singh who never removed his turban for his sport,” she added.
 
 
