Gurgaon: In the light of recent concerns over a stepwell that faced being swallowed up by an approaching road — concerns that, happily, have been eased following a prompt response from the authorities — there is sudden interest from the state government in finding and restoring other heritage buildings in the district.

 Praveen Kumar, director of the state department of archaeology and museums, was in town on Wednesday to share his thoughts on these restoration plans, and on making Gurgaon a heritage stopover for tourists visiting the famed Golden Triangle of Delhi, Agra and Jaipur.
 
 With the matter of the road, dividing sectors 66 and 67, now resolved, everyone can focus on making sure that the stepwell is cleaned out and done up. Hopefully it will, one day soon, resemble the structure that first came up in 1905.
 
 “The baoli in Badshapur will be left alone and though there is a lot of dirt inside, we’ll clean it out and redo it,” he told TOI.
 
 In a country that places little value on physical history, Kumar was keen to emphasise that heritage buildings over a century old are protected by the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act of 1958. Indeed, any structure or site that is over 100 years old and has historical value, can be taken over by the government.
 
 Now, Kumar and his department intends to revive another baoli, this one located in the village of Dhumaspur, towards Bhondsi. Even though this stepwell, dating back more than 700 years, has been built over, Kumar was hopeful that its foundation is still intact, and that the original edifice can be rebuilt. “We plan to employ a technique using radioisotopes, through which we can find out the depth of the baoli,” he shared. But Kumar has more ambitious plans, and is eager to develop Gurgaon and its surrounds, including towns such as Narnaul and Farrukhnagar, as a heritage destination. “We want to take back these historic structures, remove the encroachments and repair them, because we want people to appreciate the heritage we have,” he insisted. Besides, Kumar is keen on creating another tourism ‘triangle’, one that connects Gurgaon, Sohna and Faridabad, and making what he termed as “symbiotic environmental hubs”, spiritual and natural retreats that make use of the region’s untouched natural beauty. Heritage enthusiasts will be heartened by this embrace of history. Hopefully, 2018 can be the start of a more sustained interest in Haryana’s architectural past.
 
 
