GOALTORE: Two members of the forest team, deployed to track the   whose pugmarks have spread fear across some 100 square kilometres of West Midnapore, Jhargram and Bankura, died of suspected carbon-monoxide   after they locked themselves inside a forest department vehicle at Maharajpur village on Monday night and went to sleep.

 Tiger pugmarks were found in the area on Sunday and there were rumours that the big cat was roaming the nearby Kadra forest. Forest guard Damodar Murmu of Garbeta and driver Amal Chakraborty of Salboni kept the generator running at the rear of the vehicle to keep four floodlights working, shut the door and rolled up the windows before going to sleep. Their bodies were found in the vehicle on Tuesday morning and they were declared dead at hospital.
 
 Officials said both probably died of carbon-monoxide poisoning and added that the two deaths were an indicator of the panic that had gripped a wide swathe of forested areas of the three districts.
 
 Fellow forest workers, rangers and locals, who woke up early on Tuesday after a night-long patrol, found the door of the vehicle locked and the windows rolled up. They broke open the door after they did not get any response from inside and found Murmu and Chakraborty lying unconscious. They were taken to the nearby Keyakol Rural Hospital where doctors declared them dead.
 
 “A generator was fitted to the rear of the vehicle to keep the floodlights, installed on its roof, working. The vehicle was parked off the Maharajpur forest and these lights lit up a 300-foot stretch adjoining the forest for the patrolling guards’ safety. A cage with a goat as bait inside was also placed nearby,” an official said.
 
 Fresh pugmarks were found in Bankura’s Sarenga forest on Tuesday morning. Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said this forest was closer to Jharkhand’s Dalma and the tiger was probably moving in that direction.
 
 Murmu’s son is a Madhyamik examinee and a student of of   in Goaltore. Other relatives said they had not informed him about the death. Other forest workers escorted the boy to his exam centre at a school in Garbeta’s Dabcha.
 
 Elder brother Rajkumar Murmu said: “My brother joined the department after our father’s death in 2007. He lived in his quarters in the Nayabasat forest range in Goaltore.”
 
 Chakraborty’s cousin,  , said: “My cousin has been a driver with the forest department for the last two years. We are shocked at the way he died.”
 
 Forest department officials said Murmu was selected to be a part of the forest team that would radio-collar elephants in Midnapore division.
 
 
