CHANDIGARH: A gang of youths has been active in the Tricity, who are up to stealing bags from cars by befooling their drivers. This is what police is suspecting, said the officiating SHO of   police station   on Sunday. Recently, a couple of incidents have been reported in which bike-borne miscreants stole bags from cars in different parts of the Tricity. 

 On Friday night, two youths in their mid-twenties allegedly stole a bag, with a laptop in it, from a car near a fuel station in Manimajra after befooling the owner of the car. Police procured the CCTV footage from the spot, in which the accused could be seen stealing bag from the car.
 
 SHO Ranjit Singh said no arrests have been made in this case so far. Even as the CCTV footage shows two persons, their faces are not clearly visible. Investigation of the case under progress, and the accused would be arrested soon, he added.
 
 The   gang is very active in the city and its surroundings these days. These miscreants generally adopt two types of methods to befool the drivers. One is by pouring some oil on the bumper of the car and then, informing the driver that car engine has been leaking. In the other method, they deflate one of the tyres and inform the driver about the same. In both the cases, the driver generally comes out of the car to check the oil leakage or the flat tyre and the miscreants utilise the opportunity to decamp with a bag or cash from the car.
 
 Miscreants also do not hesitate to break the windowpanes of the car, if they come to know that a car occupant has left any bag in his parked vehicle. Police said they had arrested two accused those were involved in bag-lifting from cars. During interrogation, they told the cops that they work in groups of two to three. One pours oil on the bumper of the car and the second informs the car driver about the leakage. The third person steal the bag as the driver steps out of his car.
 
 In another incident, aresident of Manimajra, Tilak Raj said two unidentified bike-borne miscreants stole his bag that contained cash Rs 10,000 and documents from his car, after breaking the windowpanes on February 1. On his statement, Manimajra police had registered a case and started investigation.
 
 In   too, two bikers duped a car owner of his laptop and some documents, after pouring black oil near the car engine and fooling the car owner on January 10 this year. The victim  , a resident of   enclave, said the accused informed him that black oil is coming out of his engine. When he stopped the car and pulled up the bonnet of the car to check the fault, the accused fled with his laptop bag from the car. A case of theft was registered at Sector 5 police station.
 
 
