PUNE: Dietary risks, high blood pressure, malnutrition and air pollution were the biggest factors that caused most deaths in Maharashtra and added to the state’s disability burden in 2016.

 This was revealed in a recent estimate of the state-level disease burden and risk factors by the Indian Council for Medical Research, Public Health Foundation of India ( ) and the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation.
 
 Dietary risks, in fact, contributed to the biggest chunk (11.5%) of the state’s disease burden in 2016, up from 6.3% in 1990. Dietary risks include the tendency towards eating fatty and high salt foods, among others. Though contribution of air pollution to the state’s disease burden came down marginally from 9.8% in 1990 to 8.6% in 2016, researchers said the trend was not significant and pollution continued to be a major risk factor in Maharashtra. 
 
 
  
  
 
 The report, based on the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), showed that factors such as dietary risks, high blood pressure, high fasting plasma glucose and high total cholesterol contributed more to the disease burden in 2016 in comparison to what it was 26 years ago. DALYs is the sum of years of life lost due to an early death and years lived with a disability.
 
 In comparison to the scenario in 1990, ischaemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, stroke, iron-deficiency anaemia, self-harm and road injuries went up significantly in 2016 as the leading causes of death and diseases. 
 
 Lalit Dandona, lead author of the study and research professor at PHFI, said, “Air pollution was the second leading risk factor in India as a whole. In case of Maharashtra, it is the fourth leading risk factor.” 
 
 He added, “This risk factor includes both outdoor air pollution from a variety of sources as well as household air pollution that results from burning solid fuels for cooking and heat. While household air pollution has dropped over time, outdoor air pollution has risen. Combined, they make a substantial contribution to the burden of cardiovascular and chronic respiratory diseases and lower respiratory infections.” 
 
 Vehicular population is only one of the contributors of outdoor air pollution. Among other factors are coal burning, construction work and road dust.
 
 Dandona, who is also the director of  , said dietary risks, which include diets low in fruit, vegetables and whole grain but high in salt and fat, were the state’s leading risk factor in 2016. “These risks drive health loss, mainly because of cardiovascular disease and diabetes,” he said.
 
 Despite being a fairly developed state, Dandona said, malnutrition is still adding a lot to the state’s disease burden.
 
 “The trend of consuming junk food has gone up exponentially in comparison to 1990s. Parents often go to work, leaving kids at day-care facilities. These children don’t have access to proper nutrition. Many people now rely on quick bites instead of wholesome meals. The number of people suffering from diabetes, hypertension and high blood pressure coming to me for a diet plan has gone up significantly in recent years,” said  , a dietician in the city.
 
 The researchers arrived at the estimate on the basis of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2016.The data sources included censuses, vital registration, sample registration system and large-scale national household surveys such as national family health surveys, district level household surveys, annual health survey and surveys conducted by the  .
 
 
