CHANDIGARH: If you go to the emergency of  , ( ), Sector 32, as a patient or a visitor, you are at risk of catching tuberculosis. Highly contagious patients of TB are admitted in the emergency along with others, instead of being placed in an isolation ward. Presently, there are around 15 such patients. Although director-principal Dr B S Chavan denied the presence of these patients in the emergency, a walk in that area by team TOI on Wednesday confirmed their admission.

 “I spoke to all the doctors in the emergency and those in-charge of pulmonary medicine. TB patients are admitted in segregated wards when it’s confirmed that they are suffering with the infection. Until TB is not confirmed, the patients have to be in the emergency. We have a dedicated unit for TB patients with 18 beds,” said Dr Chavan.
 
 However, this is not the case. Sources say these TB patients are coming to the emergency from the adjoining states of Punjab and  . “These patients are very sick and come with associated problems like diabetes, vomiting of blood and difficulty in breathing,” said a doctor in GMCH.
 
 Though TB should be identified at the primary care centre and the patients need not to be admitted as they are under a treatment regime, there are few who need hospitalization in case of associated problems. “As TB can be transmitted through droplets, patients diagnosed with the infection are isolated and not kept along with others,” said  , former head of the pulmonary medicine,  .
 
 According to the latest survey by the UT health department, there are 2,800 patients of TB in the city, while in Punjab from 2015 until 2017, there has been a 2.6% rise in TB cases. “Not only are the patients at risk it is an occupational hazard for health workers as well. Doctors can take precaution. But those who are admitted for other diseases are unaware and vulnerable to the infection,” said a nurse in the emergency.
 
 According to the international guidelines set up by the ‘Centres for Disease Control and Prevention’, US, “persons who have or are suspected of having infectious TB disease should be placed in an area away from other patients, preferably in an airborne infection isolation (AII) room. If a facility does not have an AII room, patients should be placed in a room that has been designated for isolation of persons with suspected or known infectious TB disease and, if possible, referred to a facility with an AII room.”
 
 
 
