CHANDIGARH: Barring Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), residents of the city have welcomed the proposed move of the   administration to make helmets mandatory for women riding two-wheelers.

 Among the Sikh women, only those who wear turbans, have been exempted from the same on religious grounds.
 
 The administration on April 19 issued draft notification inviting suggestions\objections from general public in a period of 30 days. So far, it has received as many as 20 suggestions.
 
 A delegation led by Sukhbir Singh Badal and Shwait Malik of BJP submitted a memorandum to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on May 4 and urged to exempt Sikh women from wearing helmets.
 
 The Chandigarh unit of SAD also submitted their objection to UT secretary transport BL Sharma in which they submitted that wearing a cap in any form is barred for Sikhs as per the Sikh rehat maryada.
 
 Chandigarh SAD president Hardeep Singh said they will be forced to protest if the administration fails to exempt Sikh women from wearing helmets.
 
 Following directions from the   and Haryana high court, the administration amended the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules, 1990, paving way for making helmets mandatory for women. At present, wearing helmets is optional for women riders. The decision has been taken considering the aspect of safety of women, including Sikh women who are not wearing turban, particularly in view of the fatalities occurring in road accidents.
 
 
 
 The residents demanded that the helmet rule should be made applicable in the Tricity of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. Social activist Ajay Jagga suggested the new rule of helmets should also be made applicable in the Tricity, which requires the action of state governments of Punjab and Haryana. The words “a Sikh woman wearing a turban” instead of words “or a woman” have been proposed to be substituted in the Chandigarh Motor Vehicle Rules.
 
 Jagga suggested that instead of “a Sikh woman wearing a turban” it should be “a woman wearing a turban” as many Hindu women also wear turban due to faith.
 
 Second Innings Association, a body of senior citizens, welcomed the move and suggested that a coordination committee of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh may be formed for mitigating any arguments for or against which may arise out of religious thinking.
 
 In 2017, a total of 18 women were killed in separate road accidents, while a total of 68 sustained injuries. According to the official figures, around 43% people killed in road accidents were two-wheeler riders. In 2016, 20 women were killed in different road accidents while a total of 79 suffered injuries.
 
 
