Ludhiana: A 25-year-old woman hailing from a village near here and her friend were arrested and charged with murder after a 26-year-old man, who had allegedly been wooing her for marriage for a month, was found dead in her house early morning on Friday.

 The SHO of Jodhan police station, Jasvir Singh, said though they had booked the woman for murder, she had been claiming that the accused forcibly entered her house past midnight, came to her room, and committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan there.
 
 The woman had been living alone in the house since 2014, after the death of her maternal aunt who adopted her. She has claimed that the deceased had been phoning her for a month and asking her to have a relationship with him and marry him. The woman alleged that he phoned her again on Thursday and made the same threat.
 
 The woman, a graduate, owns three acres of farmland in the village and also the house. She told the police that she had been avoiding the youth because she suspected he had an eye on her propoerty.
 
 The SHO said the woman claimed that she called her male friend, also aged 25, to her house around 2am, as she did not know what to do after the deceased killed himself.
 
 According to the police case, the death came to light when a villager noticed the woman standing outside her house at 3am and enquired the purpose behind it. “She informed the villager that the man who had been wooing her had committed suicide,” the SHO added.
 
 While the villager phoned the police, the woman and her friend fled the spot. They were nabbed near the village after about an hour, the SHO added. “We suspect he may have been poisoned as there are no injury marks on his body and no signs of strangulation either.”
 
 Ludhiana (Rural) senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surjeet Singh also reached the spot. “We have booked them on a complaint by the father of the deceased,” he added. “Also, the statement given by the woman and the circumstances in which we found the body do not match.”
 
 The SSP said they were awaiting the post-mortem report of the deceased. “The body’s at Sudhar civil hospital,” he said. “It could be a case of love triangle.”
 
 
