KOTA: State   in ‘Mera booth, Mera Gourav’ programme organized in   on Monday appeared united prior to the state   slated this year. Chinks in management of the event however, disappointed the party workers with regret on not being able to listen to and speak to their icons and some seniors for not being able to get a chance to speak.

 “Arrangement on space and facilities in   was secured for the event and an appropriate machinery of coolers and showers was put in place to keep the place comfortable cool but the footfall of the party workers and people at the event exceeded beyond expectations causing trouble for those assembled there,” said state Congress general secretary, Pankaj Metha. He added that there was not enough time for any pre-planning and most of the senior leaders were in a hurry as they had to board a flight. “The event, however energized the party workers and infused them with fresh zeal and zest to work to win in the elections,” he claimed.
 
 Around 5000 chairs were arranged in the Pandal but more party workers poured in from across Hadoti region including Kota, Bundi, Baran and Jhalawar, said another party worker and youth Congress state secretary Charmesh Sharma and added AICC national secretary Tarun Kumar had reached Kota 4-5 days earlier to prepare for the mega event on April 23 but time for preparation fell short.
 
 Dr. C.P. Joshi in his address focused on the theme of the event ‘Mera Booth, Mera Gourav’ and rolled out tips of booth management to work out a win in the polls. Dr. Joshi even left the party workers and other leaders astonished with his observation that “Congress in the current status cannot win election in Rajasthan” and added in order to win the election party workers through social media engines should educate the fresh voters with party’s policies and principles. 
 
 Senior Congress leader and ex minister Harimohan Sharma, echoed similar sentiments and said, “In the ongoing scenario, it is quite impossible to win an election without a proper booth management. Booth management focuses on bringing the fresh voters favoring the party’s ideology to the booth and not the voters who always vote for the party.”
 
 
