On Tuesday, PM  , along with his chief strategist  , inflicted another defeat on  . The gain gives   the psychological upper hand as the two rivals head into the next round of polls that will feature saffron-ruled states of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. It also refutes talk about Modi and BJP going downhill, and will cement BJP's status as the top seed for the 2019 contest.

 
 Congress's last-gasp bid to thwart BJP from gaining control of Bengaluru by offering the government to JD(S) gratis only amplified its vulnerability vis-a-vis the saffron juggernaut and cannot but weaken its hand during negotiations over who leads the anti-BJP front. Regional chieftains who have, in any case, been loath to cede leadership to Rahul and can boast of their pockets of influence like the H D Deve Gowda-Kumaraswamy duo, can be trusted to follow the Bengaluru model of maximising their returns from limited capital.
 
 Congress's defeat in the third straight election since Rahul took the reins will encourage ambitious satraps to up their ante, making it politically crucial for him to win the coming encounters.
 
 BJP's first victory off Congress in the south under the stewardship of Modi and Shah was achieved against Congress's invocation of Kannada regional pride and, to that extent, represents the triumph of the larger national narrative.
 
 BJP failed to score an outright win, falling short by 8 seats. But that is only part of the story and could hardly take away from the performance which testified as much to Modi's enduring appeal as to the adeptness with which Shah has been exploiting it.
 
 It was not an easy terrain for BJP. Its state unit had long been a collective of squabbling aspirations. It was also up against a shrewd rival in outgoing CM Siddaramaiah. Apart from enjoying all the advantages, including access to resources and control over the state apparatus, the Congress spearhead, a former Lohiaite, had stitched together a seemingly formidable social coalition of OBCs, Muslims and Dalits. He also appeared to have split Lingayats, BJP's core constituency, with his election-eve ploy to recognise them as a religious community separate from Hindus.
 
 The CM, an import from JD, had buffered himself, it appeared, against the disadvantage of incumbency by dipping into the pork barrel to launch 'Saubhagya' schemes for the poor.
 
 The challenge was compounded by the growing perception, in the wake of BJP's narrow win in Gujarat and its losses in UP bypolls, of a Congress recovery under Rahul who did not flinch from declaring his readiness to be prime minister midway through the   campaign.
 
 In the end, however, it was the Modi-Shah duo which prevailed. There is consensus that it was Modi's vigorous campaigning which proved to be the game changer. The verdict shows that the big constituency that Modi acquired continues to stand by him.
 
 The opponents have also to reckon with Shah. The Karnataka verdict is not just proof of the capability of the electoral machine that he has transformed BJP into, it is also a story of the single-minded ruthlessness with which he pursues organisational objectives, smothering not just opposition outside but also outsized ambitions within.
 
 
