GREATER NOIDA: A 40-year-old tea seller was thrashed and his friend shot at by two armed criminals in Ecotech 3 area of Greater Noida on Friday night.

 The victims, Kamlesh Yadav (40) and Dharmendra Yadav (35), were admitted to a private hospital.
 
 Kamlesh, an original resident of Mainpuri district of UP, lives with his family in Udyog Kendra 2 of Greater Noida.
 
 Anit Kumar, circle officer, Greater Noida 3 said that Kamlesh runs a tea shop in the neighbourhood. Last week, a person called Ranveer had visited his shop and ordered a cup of tea. He then complained that the tea was not good, over which both of them got into a heated argument. “Kamlesh thrashed Ranveer and asked him to leave,” said Kumar. Later, Ranveer returned home and discussed the matter with his friend, Mohsin. Both of them then decided to take revenge on Kamlesh.
 
 Kumar said that on Friday, around 10pm, both Ranveer and Mohsin visited Kamlesh’s shop and called him to discuss the issue. Kamlesh sensed foul play and called his friend Dharmendra Yadav for help. The two persons then went out to discuss the issue with Ranveer and Mohsin.
 
 “I and my friend Dharmendra came out to enquire about the matter, but both Ranveer and Mohsin started abusing us over the argument last week. We asked them to mind their language. Suddenly, Mohsin took out a pistol and opened fire at me,” Kamlesh said.
 
 Kamlesh stepped back to escape the bullet, but it passed touching Dharmendra’s right temple. The two criminals then thrashed Kamlesh and Dharmendra with an iron rod and wounded them severely. When the victims raised an alarm, some locals rushed to their rescue. The two criminals fled after thrashing them.
 
 A police team soon reached Kamlesh’s tea shop and rushed the two to Kailash Hospital. They are now out of danger.
 
 While Ranveer, an original resident of Hardoi, works as a labour in Zara Enterprises, Mohsin works as a carpenter in the neighbourhood. He is a resident of Moradabad. Police have registered a case of attempt to murder against the two. 
 
 “The police conducted a search at their rented accommodation and at their workplace, and found them absconding. We have widened the search and will soon arrest them,” said Kumar.
 
 
