Sonamura/Kailashahar: Prime Minister   on Thursday gave a call for change of regime in Tripura by using in his speech Hindi equivalent of two precious stones - ' ' (ruby) and 'hira' (diamond) - while coining yet another acronym. 

 Addressing a huge gathering at  , the PM said, "People wear 'manik' (ruby) for changing their fate, but this 'manik' (a reference to Marxist chief minister  ) has failed to bring prosperity. Throw away the Sarkar government and go for 'HIRA' - highways, internetways, roadways and airways - to usher in development in the state."
 
 Taking a dig at Sarkar's 'clean and poor CM' image,   said the 'dark side' of the Left's 25-year-rule in Tripura has been meticulously kept hidden from people outside the state. "The Communists hit the streets carrying lal jhanda (red flag) on issues like price rise and close down factories if the pay of workers is lowered by a few rupees. But never did they speak or let the people in this country know that government employees in Tripura were denied benefits under the 7th Pay Commission. Do you get the minimum wages? If other states can get minimum wages for labourers, why it is not so in Tripura?" he said. Modi said Tripura is going to benefit from the Centre's move to brand bamboo as 'grass', which was earlier categorised as 'tree'. "Exploiting bamboo resources is going to boost Tripura's economy," said Modi. The PM said the Communists talk big but do not put it into practice. Targeting Sarkar's attire and his bank account, Modi said, "We are all familiar with Sarkar's white kurta and meagre bank balance. But many do not know that people of Tripura have been deprived of their democratic rights and development in the last 25 years. The situation in Tripura is such that one has to go through a party cadre to lodge an FIR."
 
 Modi alleged that central funds provided to the state mostly remained unutilised. "Tripura could not progress much because of the inefficiency of the Left Front government. Neither they have been able to increase their revenue generation nor could they properly utilise funds. The government has not been able to spend money sanctioned by the Centre under various projects." 
 
 
