KOLKATA: The mock-up coach of the East-West Metro rakes was unveiled at the under-construction Salt Lake depot on Saturday. The first batch of original rakes will arrive in March, just prior to the launch of first-phase services in June. By then, the carshed will also be ready to house 15 rakes.

  ( ), which is implementing the Rs 8,996-crore underwater Metro corridor, is procuring 14 rakes at Rs 900 crore.
 
 The carshed complex on 12 blocks also has a workshop, which will be run by BEML, the manufacturers of the rakes. Consolidated Construction Consortium Ltd is giving shape to the stabling yard with a total built-up area of 6,31,000 sqft. “BMEL is contracted to run the workshop for a given period after which KMRC will take over repair of the rakes,” said a source.
 
 The carshed has been under construction for the last seven years. Work was slow-paced in the first three years as the entire tract was not made available to KMRC. For the last one year, construction has been guided by specifications from BEML. Three BEML engineers have been working at Salt Lake depot since January, 2017.
 
 The green stabling yard adheres to all ecological norms, including energy, water and power conservation. Solar power panels will also be installed. 
 
 The mock-up coach, that is currently housed at the carshed, displays a host of new features that are missing in rakes of north-south Metro. There’s a space exclusively for the wheelchair-bound next to the seats. “In fact, the coaches, the platform, the walkway next to the Metro track are all at the same level. So even if there’s an emergency, mobility will not be an issue for the disabled,” said  , KMRC chief engineer.
 
 But the train’s ‘driverless’ facility — the automatic train operation (ATO) — has kept everyone upbeat. “The ATO is an operational safety enhancement device. The ATO and ATC/ATP systems will work together to maintain a train within a defined tolerance of its timetable,” said Prosenjit Chakraborty, chief electrical engineer, KMRC. “For the sake of safety, a driver will be on board each rake, but his role will only be supervisory,” he added. A centralised control system will run the trains. 
 
 
  
 
 
