Her father is a plumber and mother a housekeeper in a shop. But the financial troubles faced by the family only fuelled 15-year-old Srivani Pandari’s determination to do well in school. the wonder kid scored a perfect GPA of 10 in the recently announced   examinations. 
This is only the beginning, says Srivani, with an earnest smile. “I feel happy about my achievement, but honestly, this is only the beginning. I need to achieve a lot more in my life. The financial condition of my family has kept me away from a lot of things that girls of my age usually like to do. This result has given me the confidence that if I set my mind on it, I can set the future right,” she adds. The determination in her voice is palpable. Her parents and brother, Vinod, look at her with pride in their eyes. “She never caused us any trouble. Even when she didn’t have textbooks to study, she would borrow them from her friends,” says Vinod, who works at a photo studio.  , her mother adds, “My job as a cleaner in a private shop keeps me busy and I know nothing about the family’s financial matters.   knows everything and he takes care of his sister too,” says the emotional mother. a student of MMCC Talent School, Srivani and her family resides at the ground floor of a small under-construction building in the busy   area. “It’s a two-room house. one room 
 is the kitchen, the other doubles up as our living room and bedroom,” Vinod says, as he welcomes us in. “Before her exams, while everyone slept at night, Srivani used to stay awake till late and study in the kitchen. I would always find her there, head buried in her books, no matter how early I woke up or how late I went to bed,” he adds. 
 
 Lack of funds to buy books or pay fees for tuitions meant that Srivani had to do it all for herself, and work doubly hard. It wasn’t easy, but she prevailed. “I was a little weak in Mathematics, but couldn’t afford private tuitions like some of my other classmates. But my school helped me a lot in this regard — both academically and financially. And now, based on my results, I am also being offered a seat in  ,” says Srivani. Srivani has set her goals high and dreams of getting into an IIT. “I want to study in an IIT because it is one of the best institutions for those who want to take up technology. Though I am not sure what kind of career I will want take up in the future, I will figure it out soon,” she says, confidently. 
 Vinod meanwhile admits that he will leave no stone unturned when it comes to supporting his sister’s education. “I work in a photo studio and it’s difficult to make ends meet with that job. No one in our family is educated well, so we want to see Srivani do well and make all of us proud. Even if she had not secured such great marks in her class X board exam, we would have still supported her studies, even if it meant taking loans,” he affirms. 
 
 
