MADURAI: Pulling up the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department for allowing commercial establishments inside the temple premises, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Thursday ordered the government to take action to evict all of them by issuing consolidated instructions to all the competent authorities within eight weeks from receipt of the court order copy. There are nearly 36,000 temples under the control of the HR&CE. 

 The court also warned the HR&CE officials saying, “If such commercial establishments are developed at the permission of the authorities, then they will be held accountable and responsible for all such illegal activities. They should also be prosecuted not only under the HR&CE Act, but also under the Discipline and Appeal Rules.”
 
  Justice S M   said this in his common order dismissing a batch of 13 petitions filed by the shopkeepers of   temple in   against the joint commissioner’s order dated February 21 directing them to vacate the shops. 
 
 The court said, “Dhandayuthapani swamy temple is a familiar one, wherein large number of devotees including devotees from other states and abroad are visiting day in and day out. Though there are guidelines and procedures to be followed, the authorities are flouting the same on extraneous considerations. The court does not find any infirmity in respect of the temple’s action. All such commercial establishments are to be vacated.”
 
 People are visiting temples, churches and mosques for their peace. When they are filled with commercial establishments, how can a person can get peace inside the temple?, the court asked. 
 
 “The devotees must get an impression that they are entering a place of worship. The shops there cause inconvenience to the devotees and the sanctity of the temple is in peril. The authorities can’t allow any illegal or commercial occupations inside the temple premises hereafter. As the crowd increases in ancient temples, developing commercial ventures inside the temple premises, not only cause nuisance to the devotees but creates dangerous atmosphere, wherein there is a possibility of untoward incidents. The premises must be free for the usage of the pilgrims and devotees. The state authorities are to clear all such commercial premises situated inside the temple premises throughout the state.” the court said. 
 
 Coming down heavily on the officials, the court also said, “As per the Act, the authorities can’t grant any lease for commercial ventures. But, the officials who are responsible to maintain temples are frequently colluding with commercial establishments and allowing them to continue their commercial ventures on temple premises without even granting any legal permission, lease or licence in accordance with law. The competent authorities are not performing their duties and responsibilities as required under the HR&CE Act and Rules and to the expectations of the pilgrims and devotees who are all having high sentiments, faith and attachments with large number of ancient and other temples all over the state.”
 
 
