New Delhi:   is on top of the world these days. He is, after all, ranked No. 2 in the ICC T20I rankings. Almost an unknown entity till a year ago, he has, in a few months, managed to dominate most of his opponents. Looking back at his meteoric rise, the leg-spinner gives TOI a peek into his mind. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Excerpts…
 
 
 
 There are certain advantages that leg-spinners enjoy on flat pitches. They get more turn than finger spinners. But it’s not like 
 (not anybody can turn up and roll his arm over to bowl leg spin). You need to be accurate and good at it too.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 People tend to ignore the job done by the new-ball bowlers. The first 10 overs bowled by Bhuvneshwar and Bumrah created the pressure. Yes, Kuldeep and I got a lot of wickets. But it was about creating that pressure. Both of us had to ensure we maintained the pressure.
 
 
 
 The challenge is to keep performing. If they start reading me, I’ll also read them better. I have enough variations in my repertoire. I generally bowl four types of deliveries and I’ll stick to it. It’s all about how you react in the field. It’s about the mental strength and one must understand 
 (things won’t go your way every day). The ability to come out of that bad day is the trick.
 
 
 
 I like to spend time with friends and go shopping. I love eating chhole kulche. There is a joint near my house in Lajpat Nagar that serves awesome chhole kulche. Whenever I am free, I hit that joint. Now I can’t step out of my car but I ask my friends to fetch it and I eat it in the car.
 
 
 
 
 There is a misconception about how Virat Kohli looks at diet and fitness. I eat everything. Anyway, my body doesn’t absorb much fat. Virat never says everyone has to follow the same regime he does. All he says is to make sure you remain fit, keeping longevity and efficiency in mind. 
  (how long you can sustain yourself ) is all that he stresses on.
 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) It’s no more part of my daily routine. I try to play online and sometimes while travelling, with our trainer Shankar Basu.
 
 
 
 
 
  (I am enjoying it a lot at the moment). I like clicking photos with fans when I am out for sponsor events. But I realise there is much more responsibility on my shoulders. I have worked my way to this point but there is someone else waiting to replace me if I don’t stay grounded. I have endured enough tough times. Even today, it’s not like I prefer going to only five-star restaurants. Yes, it gets tough walking freely on the streets but I love going shopping.
 
 
 
 
 I have stayed with the Haryana team all my career. They played most of their cricket in Lahli, where spinners play a very small role. Amit Mishra or Jayant Yadav were the premier spinners. So, competition is something that shouldn’t bother me. I have come up when there seemed to be little hope.
 
 
 
 
 You need different skills to be a Test bowlers. It is more about patience and different lengths. I do work towards it. As for the World Cup, I can’t be thinking about something that will happen in mid-2019. Playing for RCB in the IPL is priority for me.
 
 
 
