CHANDIGARH: Six national-level junior wrestlers were banned for one year by the Wrestling Federation of India ( ) on account of age fraud at the recently-held Junior National Wrestling Championship held in Jaipur from February 22 to 25. The period of suspension commenced from February 22 itself.

 
 Out of the six, two were representing Chandigarh, one Haryana, two Delhi and one Uttar Pradesh. One of those banned is a female wrestler.
 
 The two wrestlers from Chandigarh are Manjeet (130kg greco roman category) and Sumit Malik (61kg men’s freestyle wrestling), the one from Haryana is Virender (71kg greco roman category), the two from Delhi are Meenu (55kg women’s freestyle wrestling) and Deepak Kumar (70kg men’s freestyle wrestling), and the one from UP is   (55kg greco roman category).
 
 A seventh wrestler,   (representing Delhi in 97kg greco roman category) was banned for the same duration for representing a different state without obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from his parental state. Manjeet, Meenu, Santosh and Sumit Malik were also found guilty of fraudulently changing their state domicile without obtaining an   from their parental states.
 
 “The WFI has a strict zero tolerance policy for players who commit age fraud,” WFI secretary   told TOI. “This action should also prove to be a deterrent for players who think of committing such acts in national tournaments in the future.”
 
 Explaining how the overage participants were caught, Tomar said, “We conducted a thorough investigation during the tournament and found out that the papers submitted by the guilty wrestlers were fraud. Illegal papers were used to furnish age and domicile certificates.”
 
 “I also request all the wrestlers, those who are going to participate in the upcoming Cadet National Wrestling Championship in Pune, to avoid overage participation and obtain NOC from their parental state if he or she is representing a different state,” Tomar added.
 
 The Junior National Wrestling Championship in Jaipur was for Under-20 grapplers. The barred wrestlers were found out to be aged either 25 or 26. One of them also won a medal, but his medal was taken away by the WFI. The rest were stopped from competing in the championship as soon as the WFI found out the sharp practice adopted by the wrestlers.
 
