NAGPUR: After ignoring qualified and eligible teachers while naming   (BoS) for several subjects, the Nagpur University (NU) administration has now clubbed two subjects in the latest nominations for Persian and Arabic.

 Citing a dearth of qualified members,   had left several nominations vacant in the past. But, in this case, NU preferred not to follow its own norms.
 
 The boards of Persian and Arabic have been clubbed, and just one member has been nominated on it. Professor Mazhar Alam   teaches Persian at Vasantrao Naik Institute of Arts and Social Sciences, and doesn’t have qualification in Arabic language.
 
 NU officials, though, defended Siddique’s nomination, saying the conditions laid in the act were tough and they couldn’t find a candidate that fit those norms. They also claimed that the clubbing has been done as per the university’s direction for constitution of BOS. Kane said on Thursday that he will have to check the direction.
 
 When TOI checked the direction, it brought to light another mistake committed by the university. The direction was notified on July 21, 2017. It seems NU itself was not sure of grouping Arabic subject under the faculty of humanities.
 
 The subject appears twice, at Serial No. 7 with Persian, and at No. 11 separately in the list of 25 courses.
 
 Some teachers said in such a case ultimately the Arabic subject will suffer, and quality of course content will go down.
 
 Officials said, though, Siddique won’t be the lone member on the board while preparing the syllabus, but a committee will be formed.
 
 However, teachers questioned this stance, saying that if NU couldn’t find suitable candidates from the Arabic subject for nominations, then where is it going to get good members for preparing the syllabus.
 
 Earlier, the university had nominated 200 members to 50 BoS, which lacked transparency and violated the Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016.
 
 In those nominations, most of the members belonged to colleges and institutes backed by RSS-BJP leaders, or had affiliation to the saffron outfit Shikshan Manch. Though the university had three districts under its jurisdiction, qualified teachers from Gondia, Bhandara and   were ignored in the nominations.
 
 This time, NU didn’t have to go far, as a qualified member was well within reach, a source said, referring to a professor in the same college where Siddique teaches.
 
 
