BENGALURU: Mid-cap IT companies have outshone their larger peers with stellar stock price performances — a result of better revenue growth, helped by focus on new-age digital offerings in select industry verticals. Companies like Polaris, Mastek,   Technologies, Hexaware and L&T Infotech have seen their share prices rise by 80% to 150% in the past one year.

 The momentum in the mid-caps is back after a lull. About two years ago, some of these stocks were trading at a 30-40% discount compared to their larger IT peers. “With the uptick in the US market and a revival of sorts in energy and banking and financial services, mid-cap IT stocks have demonstrated that there could be more headroom for growth in the rally,” said Gopal Agrawal, chief investment officer (equities) in Tata Asset Management.
 
 Agrawal also pointed out that mid-caps have improved their top lines and demonstrated profitability, outdoing themselves from previous lows. Take Chennai-based Polaris Consulting & Services. In the quarter ended September (the last announced results), its revenue grew by 38% compared to the year-ago quarter. Its stock has run up 157% in the past one year. Polaris, whose biggest customer is  , is betting big on digital banking, including open APIs (application programming interfaces), blockchain in payments, and compliance.
 
 Mastek’s stock has rallied 140% in the same period, while NIIT Tech, Hexaware and L&T Infotech ( )’s scrips have shot up by 110%, 93% and 81% respectively. In comparison, bigger rivals such as TCS, Infosys and   have seen their shares rise 32.5%, 25% and 31.7% respectively in the past one year. L&T Infotech’s constant currency revenue in the third quarter grew by 16.4% compared to the yearago quarter, Hexaware’s grew by 13.9% in the quarter ended September (it is yet to announce December quarter results). The corresponding numbers for TCS, Infosys and Wipro were 6.2%, 5.8% and 3%.
 
 Sonam Udasi, fund manager in Tata Asset Management, said mid-caps have demonstrated their ability to stay agile and make quick pivots in high-value digital offerings albeit at a lower base. “They have the advantage of size. With anywhere between 30,000 and 50,000 employees and relatively high margins, they are well-positioned to operate in some high-value offerings. Their growth momentum, manoeuvrability and huge cash balances, which are 8-12% of the market cap, similar to some of the larger players, gives the market some comfort on their growth trajectory,” he said.
 
 He said mid-caps have chosen to play in select areas, especially those where allocation of client budgets leans towards digital services that will unlock higher growth.
 
