HYDERABAD: In an attempt to give abandoned children a warm family environment, the   government is in the process of formalising its foster care guidelines, expected to be rolled out within the next few months. Once curated, families willing to open their homes to orphaned or disowned kids can apply to win short or long-term custody - up to five years - of the children with the Telangana department of women development and child care (WDCW). If the foster care period is a success, couples can subsequently appeal for adoption. 

 
  
 
 "There are as many as 14,908 children in 455 child care institutions (CCIs). Of them, 10% can be considered for foster care. We are in the process of making additions to the existing guidelines to encourage the new programme under the   (ICPS)," said   , state programming manager for ICPS. 
 
 According to the model guidelines framed by the Union ministry of woman and child welfare, foster care is an arrangement whereby a child lives, usually on a temporary basis, with unrelated family members. Children who are victims of sexual/physical violence, or have been abandoned by parents suffering from terminal illnesses, mental disability, poverty or stint in prison, can be put in foster care. In Telangana, it is primarily to cater to children above six years of age.
 
 Once the guidelines are put in place, officials said that the government will launch a pilot to invite applications from parents who want to open their home to a foster child. "The child welfare committee (CWC) will conduct thorough enquiries to ascertain the background of applicants and then provide training on child care and child rights to those selected," said Venkat Swamy.
 
 While the WDCW department received poor response when it called for applications on an experimental basis in January this year, officials are hopeful of a better show this time.
 
 Though enthused, child rights activists say the system needs a strong monitoring mechanism for it to be a success. "Our fear is that if the monitoring system is not strengthened, it may jeopardise the future of the children. While foster care is an important measure to provide a family-like environment to children, a proper mechanism to safeguard their care and rights must be of paramount importance ," said  , a child rights activist. Others claim that unlike adoption process, that has a waiting period of as long as two years, the process for foster parenting must be fastened.
 
 
