There are walks. And then there are photowalks. It’s the latter that gets Hyderabad’s shutterbugs, both pros and amatuers, up and, er, walking. One such mega photowalk held recently saw close to 200 Hyderabadis sign up to get mentored by seasoned photogrpahers, over a walk in one of Hyderabad’s most photographed locations — the Goloconda Fort. “It all started with a casual poll which we ran to see if there will be takers for a photowalk.... And the response took us by surprise. We got over 400 responses!” says  , who curates ‘Hello Hyderabad’ an instagram page which has over 12,000 followers and some breathtaking photographs of Hyderabad and more, clicked by Hyderabadis. Subham, who joined hands with a few other photographers to make this walk possible, adds that the idea for such an event took seed because of the overwhelming response at the official World-Wide Instagram Meet (WWIM 2016) and   2.0, organised by the local group, Hyd Instammet. “Initially, #HHPhotowalk was supposed to be held at Numaish. But when we saw that 400 people had responded, we had to change the venue to  . It was still a huge number to manage, so we made registrations mandatory and filtered the number of participants down to 192.” 

 The participants, were divided into eight groups based on the equipment used, and assigned one professional photographer each as mentor. “The photography community in Hyderabad is quite close-knit. the mentors were more than happy to contribute to the event and make this walk an enriching experience for the participants. The mentors did a splendid job in guiding budding photographers to get the best shots by sharing some of their techniques and tips,” says Subham. “More such walks and meets are underway and we are happy to see the community growing,” said the mentors in unison, when asked what made them readily sign up for the walk. 
 
 Anurag Suram, an amateur photographer who took part in the walk, says, “It is always exciting to connect with people who have the same passion as you, and photowalks such as this one enable this. A big thanks to our group mentor for sharing his knowledge and continuously trying to compel us to think creatively. I am glad that I made friends with a bunch of people, who, like me, are obsessed with photography.” 
 
