He has been playing the   since he was three-years-old and hasn’t stopped since. Born into a musically-inclined family (his parents are   maestro L Subramaniam and singer Kavita Krishnamurthy),  , who has proved his mettle in classical music, is not afraid to experiment with genres and collaborate with artistes. In a free-wheeling chat with Bangalore Times, Ambi talks about his musical preferences, why he’s now inclined to creating music in a studio and his future plans. Excerpts…

 
 
 I have to thank my dad for that, because when we were growing up, he made sure that we weren’t one dimensional. I learnt the Western violin and piano as well simultaneously. When you try to develop all these skills when you are growing up, one day it just clicks. When you are learning, you don’t realize how all these pieces of the puzzle come together. That way, some aspects of Indian classical music have improved Western classical music, and vice versa. Sometimes, you learn jazz progression or Gypsy technique, which you incorporate in your fusion work.
 
 
 
 There have been several and I feel it changes over a period of time. I’ve been very lucky; I’ve always been able to surround myself with interesting people and musicians. I’ve been able to listen to different things because of the people around me.
 
 
 
 I think we put that pressure on ourselves. I feel that my sister Bindu and I are our biggest critics.
 
 
 
 Over a period of time, we’ve come a little closer. Initially, we were very different; she is essentially a singer and song writer, and I was into fusion. When we began working together, we were very conscious of the fact that we would do one piece and one of us would try to fit in. But now, we are in sync. Now, when I write something, there is automatically space for her, and when she writes something, there is space for me.
 
 
 
 Creative differences will always be there. If there aren’t any creative differences, then an individual is not contributing. At the end, we are working together to make better music, and if you like the sound of what you have created, then that’s what matters.
 
 
 
 I really like the Spanish flamenco style, which we have been working on. Then there’s also the Gypsy style, which I really love. When we keep writing so much music, somewhere these elements come in.
 
 
 
 I grew up performing a lot. If you had asked me this question a few years ago, I would’ve said performing on stage, for sure. But now, I am doing a lot more in the studio and I think they’re two very different spaces. Initially, when I used to go to the studio, I used to have the mentality of performing on stage — that you get it right once and you are done. But, when you are in a live setting, in front of an audience, that’s something you cannot recreate in a studio. So, I feel they have their own space.
 
 
 
 Bindu and I are working on a couple of interesting projects. We have some very interesting collaborations coming up as well. We are working with a Spanish flamenco   to create something different.
 
 
