MUMBAI: A host of companies in the finance sector are on sale in the first quarter of 2018 as   seek to divest their subsidiaries to raise capital. On the block are strategic stakes in insurance companies, home finance arms and bond houses. While public sector banks are going in for strategic stake sales, private   are looking at extracting value through listing of their subsidiaries.

 Bank of India is selling its 29.96% stake in primary dealership firm Securities Trading Corporation of India (STCI), looking to raise over Rs 600 crore. The public sector lender had earlier sold its 18% stake in Star Union Dai-ichi Life Insurance to joint venture partner Dai-ichi Life Insurance (DILIC). This resulted in the Japanese insurer hiking stake to 44%. Dai-ichi Life is also the buyer for a Union Bank of India’s 40% stake in its asset management company.
 
 Bank of India is also looking at monetising investment in its other companies, which include BOI AXA Investment Managers, Central Depository Services (India), National Collateral Management Services, SME Rating Agency of India, BOI Shareholding, BOI Merchant Bankers, and ASREC (India). Earlier in 2017, the bank had sold its entire 5% stake in credit information firm TransUnion CIBIL to TransUnion International Inc for Rs 191 crore.
 
  
  
 
 Bengaluru-based Canara Bank plans to sell its stake in various arms including Canara Robeco Asset Management, Canbank Computer Services and Can Fin Homes. IDBI Bank, which recently sold its holding in SIDBI, is now looking at a buyer for its stakes in IDBI Federal Life Insurance, IDBI Trusteeship Company and its balance holding in the National Stock Exchange (NSE). Bank of Baroda aims to divest its stake in BoB Cards, which has recently been renamed as BoB Financial Solutions. 
 
 After liberalisation,   had made investments in mutual funds, insurance companies and housing finance arms in their attempt to become conglomerates. Now most of the banks are in distress due to a surge in bad loans. Additionally, the Reserve Bank of India ( ) wants that banks do financial activities in-house to the extent regulations permit. The government had also asked PSU banks to sell stakes in non-core assets to raise capital.
 
 In the private sector, ICICI Bank plans to sell shares in its investment   arm ICICI Securities through an initial public offering (IPO). The bank is looking at a 15% stake sale. There have also been reports about HDFC Bank listing its arm HDB Financial Services. HDB provides personal loans, car loans and does recovery services for the bank. HDFC’s parent has firmed up plans to list HDFC Asset Management. 
 
 According to banking sources, prospects of a stake sale by State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Baroda in UTI Mutual Fund through an IPO have increased following Sebi’s new shareholding norms for asset management companies.
 
 
