KOLKATA: Chief minister   has sent birthday wishes to her predecessor and CPM leader   and DMK working president MK Stalin, who share their birthdays on March 1. But she hasn’t done so for Bihar CM  , who too was born the same day. 

 The West Bengal CM’s birthday wishes to Bhattacharjee, four months after she visited the ailing CPM leader at his Palm Avenue home, has raised eyebrows in political circles. A few days ago, Banerjee had taken the initiative to get the toilet of her predecessor’s two-room flat repaired.
 
 Political pundits see the CM’s alacrity as something beyond courtesy. They see Banerjee redefining her battlelines for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which BJP, and not CPM, is her main target. She had dropped a hint in the assembly on Wednesday, urging CPM MLAs to look at the “big picture” emerging at the national level where BJP has appeared as the main danger. Banerjee’s target this time is Left voters, who believe this to be true even if CPM bosses in Delhi don’t approve of a rainbow coalition against BJP.
 
 The Bengal CM has been at it for long after floating the proposal for a national front against BJP. Trinamool leaders have been reaching out to parties from DMK to even Shiv Sena, and to Lalu Prasad’s RJD and Samajwadi Party in an attempt to bring anti-BJP parties on a single platform. Banerjee’s birthday message to Stalin is part of this drive. “We have a strong party-to-party relation with DMK since 2014. Members of both parties have excellent floor adjustment in Parliament,” Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said. 
 
 Confident of winning most of the 42 Lok Sabha seats, the Trinamool chief has emerged a key anti-BJP face at national level. Banerjee is thus into a bargain with Congress over space in this anti-BJP platform because her party will no longer play second fiddle.
 
 Expanding her political periphery, the Trinamool chief is also sending Derek to the wedding of TDP parliamentary leader Y S Chowdary’s daughter. TDP is an NDA partner. But when it comes to Nitish, Banerjee is stubborn. The Bihar CM had given her the cold shoulder when she campaigned against demonetisation in Patna a year ago. 
 
 
