PUNE: The city airport clinched the third place in the quality of passenger services in the final report of the Airports Council International’s survey for the year 2017.

  
 The survey on the airport service quality (ASQ) was conducted all through the year in airports across the world that wished to participate in it. The Pune airport was ranked third with Kochi and Kolkata in the category of the best airport by size and sub-category of 5 to 15 million passengers per year.
 
 “I would like to thank all the stakeholders — passengers, Indian Air Force, CISF, customs and immigration — working with us. This year, we will be crossing the mark of eight million passengers. It will be a record given the number of bays and the terminal building area. We are constantly working and trying to take the airport to the first position in this category,” Pune airport director Ajay Kumar said.
 
 The city airport at present has eight parking bays. The work has been initiated to increase the size of the apron area, taking the number of parking bays to 13.
 
 The present terminal building’s size is 22,300sqm. The work on the new building spanning over 42,000sqm is expected to start soon. The   ( ) has approved the new building’s design.
 
 Passengers stressed though some services had improved at the airport, things needed to get better. “The other day I was travelling and could hear announcements being made by the airlines though the airport has turned silent. I realized that the announcements were being made because many flight information screens were small. Getting good food is another issue. In peak hours, things still become chaotic and flight delays worsen it,” Naresh Jagnani, a businessman, told TOI.
 
 Shantanu Raut, a frequent flyer, highlighted the lack of international connections. “We have talked about the issue many times and I wonder why the process is so slow?” he asked.
 
 Aviation expert and analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said the ranking was heartening, but surprising for many. “While this ranking may surprise many passengers, the credit must be given to the airport operators for making efforts to improve the service quality. AAI and the other stakeholders must make efforts for actually translating these ratings into the overall satisfaction of passengers,” he said.
 
 Going by the phenomenal passenger growth and the fact that it was still not able to do justice to the actual potential and demand of the city indicated the amount of improvements and the facilities still required at the airport, he said.
 
 “While the long-delayed expansion of the terminal building is in progress, key areas like hassle-free access to airport, barrier-free environment for differently abled passengers, reduced time and ease of going through the airport processes and better employee engagements need to be improved upon,” Vandekar said.
 
 
