NEW DELHI: Lawyer-activist   on Tuesday said he had invoked the  's in-house procedure to deal with his demand for a probe against Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra for "several acts of serious misconduct" that include alleged ante dating of a memo asserting the CJI's administrative powers.

 Bhushan, who heads the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Judicial Reforms ( ), argued that though there is a silence on the procedure for handling a complaint against the CJI, "it is obvious that such complaints must be examined by the next judge in seniority or by a collegium of senior judges".
 
 The lawyer has sent his complaint against the CJI to five most senior judges of the SC (after Justice Misra) along with transcripts of taped conversations between accused persons in an alleged bribery case involving a UP medical college, 
  . He alleged that though there is no evidence as yet on the CJI's involvement in wrong-doing, there is enough prima facie evidence for a probe.
 
 
  
 
 Bhushan, whose PIL seeking an SIT probe into the   was dismissed last year by SC with a heavy fine, accused the CJI of denying permission to CBI to prosecute a sitting Allahabad HC judge in the same case where a former Orissa HC judge I M Quddusi, a middleman and an official of a UP educational institution, were among those arrested.
 
 The lawyer said despite being shown the HC judge's "conclusive involvement" in taking bribe to help a  , the CJI refused to permit a CBI team to register FIR when it came for permission on September 6 last year.
 
 Interestingly, in a release, CJAR has levelled the charge of forgery against the CJI, claiming he "appears to have ante-dated an administrative order of November 6, 2017 which amounts to serious act of forgery/fabrication". He said the memo had been rushed to the court that was hearing a petition asking the court to examine bribery allegations against members of the higher judiciary in clearances to the medical college.
 
 The memo cited by the organisation refers to exclusive powers of the CJI to assign a bench and is dated November 6, 2017. But Bhushan has claimed it was "hurriedly prepared around noon of November 9, 2017" soon after a bench headed by Justice J Chelameswar had sent a petition filed by advocate Kamini Jaiswal to a bench comprising five senior most SC judges. The note was shown to Justice Chelameswar by the registry officials to dissuade him from constituting a bench.
 
 The events are the backdrop to 
  , and the CJI.
 
 Addressing a packed press conference, Bhushan on behalf of CJAR listed out the "charges" against the CJI, starting with his role in the Prasad Education Trust case. The organisation maintained that facts and circumstances related to this case "create reasonable doubt" about the role of the CJI.
 
  
  
 
 CJAR claimed it was "certainly unusual" for the CJI-led bench to allow Prasad Education Trust to withdraw a writ petition filed before it and later dispose of an HC order so that a fresh writ could be filed before the apex court again.
 
 Bhushan clarified that CJAR is not saying the CJI is involved in any conspiracy but said in light of the evidence collected by CBI till now in the case, "there is certainly reason to prima facie investigate" the charges.
 
 However, since the CJI prevented registration of an FIR against the HC judge and later a bench constituted by him dismissed CJAR petition seeking an SIT probe into the allegations in the CBI case, "all investigation into the conspiracy to bribe judges for obtaining a favourable order has been virtually stalled", CJAR alleged.
 
 CJAR raked up another issue relating to the CJI's past action as a lawyer. It complained to the top five judges that Justice Misra as a lawyer acquired land for raising a fodder farm, by giving an affidavit that was found to be false on the count that neither he nor his family owned any agricultural land.
 
 Despite orders of the ADM to cancel the allotment of land in 1985, he surrendered it only in 2012 after being elevated to the SC, CJAR alleged.
 
 
