PATNA: Hectic lobbying is going on in the state’s major political parties for the 11 seats of Bihar Legislative   election to be held probably during the forthcoming Budget session scheduled to begin from February 26 to April 4.

 Two council seats are vacant while the term of its nine members, including CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, health minister Mangal Pandey and leader of opposition Rabri Devi, will end by May 5. Election for the 11 seats will be held simultaneously. 
 
 All these seats are in ‘assembly constituency’ category and the candidates against these seats will be elected by the members of legislative assembly. 
 
 Though the Election Commission is yet to notify the schedule, political parties believe that election would be held during the Budget session as had been done on several occasions in the past. One seat fell vacant on January 10 this year after the death of BJP MLC Satyendra Narain Singh Kushwaha, while another fell vacant on January 6, 2016 after the Council’s then chairman Awadesh Narayan Singh disqualified rebel JD(U) MLC Narendra Singh under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution.
 
 Narendra later challenged his disqualification in the Patna high court which, on April 26, 2016, upheld the chairman’s decision.
 
 The nine seats to fall vacant are represented by CM Nitish, Sanjay Singh, Upendra Prasad, Chandeshwar Prasad Chandravanshi and Raj Kishore Singh Kushwaha of JD(U), Sushil Kumar Modi, Mangal Pandey and Lalbabu Prasad (BJP) and Rabri Devi (RJD). 
 
 The 243-member Bihar assembly has effective strength of 240 members as two MLAs — Anand Bhushan Pandey (BJP) and Mundrika Singh Yadav (RJD) — died recently and the Speaker doesn’t cast his vote in the council polls.
 
 A person requires votes of at least 21 MLAs to win one council seat.
 
 As the JD(U) has 70 members (minus Speaker) in the assembly, it can easily win three seats. JD(U) insiders say besides retaining its national president and CM Nitish, the party may retain Chandravanshi, who was elected to the Upper House in a midterm poll in February 2016 and has completed just two years in the council.
 
 Similarly, the BJP having effective strength of 52 in the assembly, can easily retain its two of the three seats going to be vacant on May 5. It can also win the third seat if it manages to get the surplus votes of ally JD(U) and those of the LJP, RLSP, HAM(S) and a few Independents. 
 
 Congress, if remains united, can easily win one council seat with its current strength of 27 MLAs. Even after winning one seat, Congress would have six surplus votes, which it may pass on to its ally RJD.
 
 The RJD, which has effective strength of 79 in the assembly, can win four council seats with the help of six surplus votes of the Congress.
 
 
