MUMBAI: A decade after the monorail project started, the entire 20-km-long corridor between   and   ( ) is likely to be thrown open to public next month. 

 At present, Phase-I services between Chembur and  , which became operational in February 2014, are suspended following a fire in a train on November 9. 
 
 “The (new) fares have been finalised and we plan to open the corridor next month. We are carrying out safety checks and may implement some of the measures to enhance passenger security,” said U P S Madan, MMRDA commissioner.
 
 Earlier, there was speculation that the full line may become operational by January 26 or February 1. An official said services would start after getting clearance from the commissioner of railway safety.
 
  
  
 MMRDA expects around 2 lakh daily commuters once the entire stretch is operational. The 8.8 km-long Phase-I has a daily ridership of 15,000.
 
 An MMRDA official said, “Monorail will be popular because it will traverse through congested areas of central Mumbai like Dadar and the heart of mill land, like Lower Parel. Also, it provides interchange stations at Wadala (Harbour line), Currey Road (CR main line) and Lower Parel (WR). The Jacob Circle station is also not far from Mumbai Central and Mahalaxmi stations.”
 
 The official added, “The Metro caters to almost 4 lakh commuters a day on a stretch of less than 12km and provides interchange at two stations. So our estimates are not far-fetched.”
 
 However, even before finalising the date of opening of the corridor or getting the Phase-I services back on track, MMRDA has revised the fares by 100%. It has approved the fares in four slabs of Rs 10, Rs 20, Rs 30 and Rs 40. Earlier, a commuter travelling up to 3km would have to pay only Rs 5— it will be Rs 10 now. Similarly, a monorail ride between Chembur and Wadala (entire Phase-I) will cost a commuter Rs 20, up from Rs 11 earlier.
 
 “The fare structure is similar to the Metro corridor as mono also provides more or less similar comfort to passengers,” an official said, adding, “MMRDA may earn Rs 100 crore revenue per year because of the demand. Metro too earns a fare box revenue of around Rs 200 crore, so our estimates are conservative.”
 
 Commuters feel that the monorail will be popular only if the system is punctual and not prone to frequent breakdowns. Metro claims to maintain 99.9% punctuality. Chembur resident  , who travels to Lower Parel by changing trains, said, “I have concerns about the safety and reliability. MMRDA will have to ensure proper services before I make up my mind to use the monorail.”
 
 Naigaon resident Ajay Rane said, “Monorail will definitely be the preferred mode of transport for those travelling to Chembur because the fares do not seem to be high. Also, it is any time better than travelling by BEST’s non-AC buses through congested roads.”
 
 
