MYSURU: Even while the  , led by chief minister Siddaramaiah, is seeking to use development as the poll plank,   chief Amit Shah’s visit to slain RSS activist Raju’s house in the city on Friday could change the narrative of the political discourse in the CM’s hometown.

 While his tour of Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Davangere was aimed at addressing concerns of the Lingayat community in the aftermath of the state government’s move to accord them religious minority status, the BJP national chief’s visit to Mysuru is aimed at consolidating Hindu voters. Raju’s house is in communally sensitive Kyathamaranahalli area in Narasimharaja segment where Muslims are in majority.
 
 The four districts which he is touring has no MLAs from the party and Shah is looking at shoring up support for the saffron party given that the region has segments where Lingayats are key to the poll outcome.
 
 For the record, Raju, 36, was killed by two-bike borne youths in mid-March 2016. He was a full-time RSS worker and was a prominent activist in the Sangh Parivar in the city. Raju had opposed the construction of a place of worship at a disputed property near his residence. 
 
 The visit comes at a time when former mayor and JD(S) corporator Swatish Swamy, commonly known as Sandesh Swamy, is joining the BJP and could get a ticket to contest the polls. The Narasimharaja segment is now represented by four-time MLA and minister Tanveer Sait.
 
 Shah’s two-day visit of Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya and Ramanagar is designed to be a temple run. He will visit two prominent places of worship — Sri Srikanteshwara temple at Nanjangud and Sri Cheluvanarayana Swamy temple at Melukote — besides visiting Suttur mutt and Avadooth Datta Peetha. The tour is also packaged to woo the Dalits, STs in particular as the Union government fulfilled the long pending demand of including Parivar and Talwar under the Schedule Tribes.
 
 As the Nayakas play a crucial role in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, Shah will hold a ST convention at Chamarajanagar, which comes less than a week after the AICC chief Rahul Gandhi’s rally.
 
 Shah will also hold interaction with Dalit leaders, have lunch with them, interact with organic farmers and hold meetings with the Shakti Kendra Pramukhas from five districts at Mandya on Saturday. 
 
 
