NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old boy suffering from acute heart disease allegedly committed suicide because he could not get admission in G B Pant Hospital, the largest super-specialty government hospital in the capital. 

 Ajay Kumar was rushed 270 km from Bareilly in UP to Delhi on Sunday evening. Doctors in the emergency ward of   stabilised him though they couldn't admit him since the hospital lacked a cardiac specialty. The youth was taken on Monday morning to G B Pant. Vikki, Ajay's brother, alleged that the doctors there "said they could not admit him because there was no critical-care bed free". "Ajay's heart valve was diseased. He was vomiting incessantly," said Vikki.
 
  TOI made multiple calls and sent text messages to GB Pant Hospital authorities regarding the family's allegations, but got no response. 
 
 Vikki, a vegetable seller, said that after they were turned away from GB Pant on Monday, and unable to afford private treatment, he took his brother to a friend's house in   in north-east Delhi, planning to return on Tuesdayto try once again to have Ajay admitted.
 
 While family members were discussing their piquant situation among themselves, Ajay, though barely able to speak, asked them not to not worry about him or make pleas for his treatment. "On Tuesday, we found him lying in a pool of blood apparently after falling from the fourth floor of the building where we were staying," Vikki said. "Maybe he could not take the humiliation we were going through to get him treated."
 
 Ajit K Singla, DCP (North-east), said police had initiated an inquiry under Section 174 of CrPC to determine the circumstance under which the youth had died. "No suicide note was found. Friends and family members are being questioned," Singla said.
 
 Two years ago, the parents of a seven-year-old boy who died of dengue, had also jumped to their deaths from a building in south Delhi after failing to get their son admitted in hospital in time.
 
 "Poor people cannot afford private hospitals and the public hospitals are acutely short of infrastructure to meet the heavy demand," said a public health expert. "Like Kumar, many come to Delhi for treatment from distant places where healthcare is in a bad state. But many die waiting for treatment."
 
 Recently, Delhi government had reserved half the beds in GB Pant Hospital for Delhi residents, while also making free medicines and high-end diagnostic facilities available only to Delhiites.
 
 
