PATNA: The students of   ( ) in Patna had mixed reactions to the decision of granting a one-time relaxation in pass marks for its Class X students who will write their papers next week. In order to pass, an examinee should secure 33% (internal assessment and theory marks combined). 
 
 According to a CBSE notification issued on Tuesday, “The examination committee of the board in its meeting held on February 16 after considering the circumstances and the facts, that the current batch of Class X (2018) is coming from a different assessment background while they were in Class IX (in 2017), resolved to approve the following for this batch as a one-time measure.” 
  
 Earlier, the CBSE had put in place a mandatory clause of securing 33% in the board exams and another 33% in the internal assessments. 
  
  principal   wondered how the CBSE’s decision would benefit the students in the long run. “In my opinion, such a relaxation was not needed. How will students handle pressure later if they can’t deal with it now,” he asked. 
  
 International School directress Farhat Hasan welcomed it as “novel move”. She said, “With the CBSE replacing the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation scheme with a uniform system of assessment and examination, students are under a lot of pressure. Granting a one-time relaxation in passing marks will lessen their burden.” 
  
 Suresh Gupta, whose son studies in Class X at St Dominic Savio’s High School, also hailed the CBSE decision. “I have already told my son not to worry about marks and simply give his best shot. Relaxation in passing criteria will make him relaxed,” Gupta told this reporter. 
  
 A Notre Dame Academy student said, “I agree there will be lesser stress, but students obtaining low marks will face the consequences later. They may not be admitted to a good school after the results are published.” 
  
 The CBSE Class X exams will begin on March 5 and conclude on April 4. Altogether 1,29,313 students are likely to take the examinations at 200 centres in Bihar. 
  
  
