GADCHIROLI:An ex-top cadre of the banned outfit of Communist Party of India (Maoist), under whom many of the slain 39 cadres including the three Divisional Committee Members (DVCM) had once served in the rebel movement, has expressed doubts over how the encounters at   and Nainer, in South Gadchiroli, were conducted.

 Though senior officials have been highlighting the historic success as a fruit of their strategic workout, several experienced voices, including surrendered Maoists TOI spoke to, were left baffled. They have raised a number of questions and fuelled the rumour mills.
 
 According to an experienced former Maoist, who had served in the zonal committee of the Dandakaranya, it is next-to-impossible that not a single police jawan received even a small cut or wound when they were engaged in a gun-battle with 50-60 of his former colleagues. 
 
 “There were 39 Naxalite deaths and not even a scratch on the skin of the security agencies in an encounter that lasted for at least two hours. Among those killed were 3 DVCMs killed who not only possessed AK 47 assault rifles but were also trained to use it,” he said. 
 
 The ex-senior cadre also pointed out that the trees at the forested encounter spot should have had bullet or other ammunition marks. There were none. 
 
 “I have had several run-ins with the police during my time in the movement and I know that they don’t take the risk of firing from close quarters. They don’t even come close to those cadres having Bharmar rifles. The police normally fire several rounds in a random manner from one position and advance only when they are sure of their safety,” said the   who recalled that Kasnasur was once a safe haven. 
 
 “Even in the hamlets surrounding Nainer, the villagers could not hear the sound of firing,” he added.
 
 As per the former senior cadre, the Maoists would now conduct an analysis of the spot and also try to regroup before striking back. “The Maoists would not rush into anything,” he said.
 
 There is also a rumour in the district that the police used an informer who had poisoned the food which had gone to the Maoists assembled at the Rela-Kasnasur forest. The food was from the marriage function at the residence of Shoma Madavi at Kasnasur village which is around five kilometres from the encounter spot.
 
 Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh refuted the charges of poisoning. “It is not possible to poison an entire troupe of cadres. Also poison would not react equally on every human being consuming it,” said Deshmukh who is a qualified doctor.
 
 Deshmukh, however, expressed fear for the innocent tribals who the Maoists might target to take revenge. “Just like in Sukma and Bastar, we feel the Maoists would now damage public and private properties. Though the Maoists are in no position to face us strategically, we have alerted and cautioned every policemen to ensure that they reds cannot now fullfil their agenda of hollow revenges,” he said.
 
 The SP also said more Maoists may have drowned in the river. “We will get post-mortem reports shortly which will clear the picture,” he said.
 
 The post mortems of those killed in the encounter were being performed at the district hospital in Gadchiroli. The district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate and director of state health services Dr Sanjeev Kamble refused to divulge any information due to security reasons.
 
 
