Kolkata: The Bengal units of Congress and CPM spent Saturday trying to recover from Friday’s shock, when they learnt that the Congress high command had opened a direct line with   and arranged for national sp-okesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi’s entry into Rajya Sabha with Trinamool help.

 Thoroughly outwitted, the state units of the two parties sought to put up a brave face on Saturday and stressed that the Trinamool ploy to create a rift would not wo-rk at least in the Bengal assembly. “When Pradip Bhattacharya was Congress’ RS candidate, we fielded Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya. But that did not affect our relations with Congress. Floor coordination among the opposition in the assembly is inevitable and it has nothing to do with the RS election,” said Sujan Chakraborty, Left Front leader in the assembly. 
 
 State Congress president Adhir Chowdhury also sought to underline the RS election’s “larger national perspective” and that it should not be allowed to affect state politics. “It is not that we sought Trinamool support,” he said. “We announced our ca-ndidate and asked everybody to support him. Trinamool extended its support,” he added. His claims, however, ran contrary to Trinamool’s; its leaders said on Friday that it had been requested by the Congress high command to support Singhvi, a claim not contradicted by Congress’ central leadership.
 
 Chowdhury said he had called up Sitaram Yechury on Thursday and told him to “reconsider CPM’s decision but they were busy looking for an independent candidate”. “So, we had put up our own candidate. But this has got nothing to do with floor coordination in the assembly or future electoral politics,” he added.
 
 Congress candidate Sing-hvi himself, who was in the city on Saturday, was all praise for Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee. “I am very thankful to the Bengal CM and TMC supremo for her support,” Singhvi said in the assembly, exposing the obvious differences between Congress’ central leadership and its Bengal unit.
 
 Singhvi, however, avoided saying anything on a future Congress-Trinamool alliance. “Trinamool has extended its support to my candidature on the basis of its political stand. The arithmetic, history and geography of this state show the presence of an anti-BJP political space here and I am happy to be nominated from here.”
 
 No one denies Banerjee has emerged as the clear winner from this melee. Supporting Singhvi while keeping Bengal Congress in the dark, showed state Congress leaders that she had a direct line with their high command. But she has also kept her options open for a federal front as she goes to Delhi later this month to meet non-BJP and non-Congress leaders.
 
 
