CHENNAI: By harping on the need to create a south-centric political combine, under the common ‘Dravidian’ umbrella, actor Kamal Haasan may be trying to recreate the   scenario of 1988-89, when DMK, TDP and JD (U), besides the Communists from   together represented the southern interests. As with the case of the 1988 formation that kick-started from Chennai and went on to capture power at the Centre in 1989, Kamal too may have his eye on the 2019 LS polls.

 For that matter, even former Congress president Sonia Gandhi began her strategic comeback from the south in 2004, by first tying up with DMK as part of the UPA. But, can Kamal replicate what political stalwarts could deliver?
 
 “Chandrababu Naidu (CM, AP),   (CM, Telangana), Siddaramiah (CM, Karnataka) and   (CM, Kerala) are all Dravidians. If the Dravidian identity is imbibed all over  , the discrimination (from the Centre) which we complain about now will vanish. Together, our voices will become a loud chorus that will allow us to talk to Delhi,” Kamal wrote in his weekly column in a Tamil magazine. Dravidian identity need not be exclusive to Tamils and can be happily shared with people who speak other languages too, he added.
 
 Can Kamal succeed in connecting with the leaders of southern states and bring them under a common umbrella? The present geo-political scenario too makes it look all the more difficult, wherein he had so far met only Kerala’s Vijayan. “Kamal has a larger game plan for the south and is expected to reveal it when he starts his statewide tour on February 21. Hopefully, all these people will agree and come together for the larger cause,” the actor’s spokesperson said on Thursday.
 
 “This is not something new that Kamal has mooted. DMK founder C N Annadurai had in 1966, after abandoning the separate Tamil state theory, had voiced the need for forming a close-knit conglomeration of the southern Dravidian states to fight for the region’s rights with the Centre. But that was never taken forward in right earnest, other than meetings of four southern state CMs for sharing river waters,” Dravidian scholar, K Thirunavukkarasu told TOI. Further, he feels what Kamal has put forward cannot be equated to a political move on the lines of the National Front. “What Stalin (DMK working president) did in YMCA by bringing together regional party leaders from across India can be termed one such initiative. But, Stalin has not yet taken that forward. But, what Kamal is proposing needs lot more courage to implement,” Thirunavukkarasu said.
 
