KOTTAYAM: If you pass through   near  , you will come across an unlikely sight of five auto rickshaws parked near a four-acre field and their drivers busy in a totally different work environment. 

 A closer look would reveal that the field, a fallow land that became a dump yard, has transformed itself and is ready for cultivation. After two weeks of hard toil, the drivers of Madhavanpady auto stand will sow seeds for a paddy crop on Thursday. Their only bonus is a 2km-long canal, passing through the sides of their field, was cleaned up as part of the Meenachil-Meenanthara-Kodoor river relinking project. EK Bose, Siju Kurien, Moncy Varghese, Rajan Jacob and   took this bold step as they were inspired by the river relinking project that cleaned up several canals in the area. "We remember the lush green paddy fields in the region during our childhood. We wanted to bring it back," said Jacob. Varghese added that they took advice from agricultural experts who volunteered for the river relinking projects. Coordinator of the river relinking project   said: "We have formed a core group, including agri officers, to give support to such enterprising people," he said.
 
 "We took it as a challenge and started the work by taking two tractors on lease," said Kurien. The task was not easy as the place was littered with garbage. The five of them had to clear bushes and other plants in the area, get rid of broken bottles and other thrash piles that were dropped here at night. They had to deal with injuries the sustained during the clean-up task and people too discouraged them from taking up the daunting task.
 
 Now, they are planning cultivation in another 2.5 acres of fallow land. The drivers, who have spent Rs 30,000 on the field, are hopeful of securing government aid. A sum of Rs 30,000 is given for farming paddy in one hectare by authorities. The five of them secured land from three different persons on lease for one, two and three years respectively. The landowners did not charge a fee since the work required to make the field suitable for cultivation was a huge task that required a hefty amount.
 
 
