Gurgaon: Three more water storage tanks is coming at   treatment plant, increasing the total capacity to 516 million gallons from the existing 300 million gallons, to meet the city’s ever-rising demand and tide over a crisis, if any.

 The new tanks, which will cost an estimated Rs 62 crore, are likely to be in place in next 18 months.
 
 Bhoop Singh, executive engineer, Huda, said a private agency had already been selected and work on the project was expected to start shortly.
 
 At present, the Chandu Budhera plant, which draws water from the Yamuna river through NCR water canal, can treat 66 MGD and work is in progress to augment the plant’s capacity by another 66 MGD. Further, now it has three storage tanks each of 100-MG capacity.
 
 On the other hand, Basai treatment plant, which also gets water from the Yamuna through Gurgaon water canal, has the capacity to treat and supply around 60MGD. It has four storage tanks with a total capacity of 300MG.
 
 The two canals, carrying Yamuna waters from Sonipat, pass through Jhajhar and Bahadurgarh districts before reaching Gurgaon.
 
 Singh said the additional tanks were required to store up water to deal with any kind of emergency, especially a man-made crisis like the 2016 Jat’s quota agitation when protesters had allegedly disrupted water supply to Gurgaon.
 
 In February 2016, the protesters had damaged Munak Canal in Karnal and Khubru water head in Panipat, which channels water from Western Yamuna Canal to Kakroi in Sonepat.
 
 Kakroi, about 90km from Gurgaon, supplies waters to Gurgaon and several other parts in Delhi and Haryana. Water from Kakroi is pumped into three canals — Gurgaon water canal and NCR water canal that quench the thirst of Gurgaon, and Carrier Lined Canal that caters to several parts of Delhi.
 
 NCR and Gurgaon canals had turned dry and water supplies remained disrupted for at least 10 days in various areas due to the damage.
 
 With the increased storage capacity, the two plants will be able to meet the water needs of Gurgaon, which consumes around 100 million gallons daily, for eight days in case of any disruption in supply from the twin canals.
 
 
