Ludhiana: It’s not an easy task to grabbed as many as 16 medals at international level at a young age of 20, but city-based shooter Malaika Goel has achieved this feat. She has also got accolades for becoming the youngest Commonwealth Games medallist in the 10-metre air pistol event that took place in 2014.

 Malaika is still sweating it out during practice sessions at a shooting range in Narangwal village in the district for making the country proud in the forthcoming Asian shooting competition, trials for which would be held in the first week of April. She has become a perfect example for those who still think that girls are less enthusiastic about sports as compared to boys.
 
 Regarding her daughter’s forthcoming events at international level, Malaika’s mother Amarpreet said, “Sports needs a lot of dedication and concentration and shooting is a game in which marginal error can lead to failure in the arena. Malaika is among top shooters of the country in 10-metre air pistol event and has got 16 international medals, besides national and state. Her daily routine is full of activities as she spends almost five hours in the shooting range for sharpening their skills and also works out for physical strength as well.”
 
 An avid reader, Malaika has combined her passion of sports with books. She remains rconnected with books that contain interviews of sports personalities like Heena Sidhu, Roger Federer and international cricketers along with others who have excelled in sports.
 
 Malaika’s coach Gurjeet Singh said, “Every year Malaika has to take part in 3-4 trials from where a shooter qualifies for any international and/or national level tournament. She has the potential of giving more proud moments to the country as she works hard every day. Moreover one of the important factors in her success is the way she remain apart from all disturbing electronic gadgets (mobilephones, tablets) and concentrates solely on her shooting.” 
 
 “She is a true example for those women who want to make the nation proud. She also gives message to society that women are not less than a man,” Gurjeet added.
 
 
