NEW DELHI: The high pollution in Delhi is proving a threat to the capital’s smallest known vertebrate. The new generation of Microhyla ornata — a small yellowish brown   — is showing physical deformities at birth such as the absence of eyes. These were established by research conducted by the environment science department of Delhi University’s Sri Venkateswara College.
 
  
 According to Robin Suyesh, professor of environmental science in the college, the research aimed at studying the behaviour of these amphibians in the Central Ridge area, which is the species’ natural habitat in Delhi. “In the course of our research, however, we found many individuals with missing eyes,” said Suyesh.
 
 The researchers determined that the frogs were suffering from “anophthalmia”, or the absence of the left eye. “Scientific studies across the world have shown pollution, parasitic infection and ultraviolet radiation as the probable reasons for the developmental abnormality among amphibians,” Suyesh pointed out. “Delhi, which happens to be one of the most polluted cities in the world, has seen the quality of habitat constantly degrading due to anthropogenic activities, which might be affecting its biodiversity.” 
 
 The population of this   has gone down over the years due to loss of habitat. “Since they are small in size and are seen in the open for only a few months in a year, not many know that this amphibian even exists,” the professor said.
 
 Suyesh revealed that amphibians are currently the most threatened group of vertebrates with more than one-third of the total known species facing extinction. “The amphibians are particularly sensitive to environmental changes and are hence considered to be barometers of environmental change because they are the first to react to any changes around them,” Suyesh said.
 
 Earlier research conducted in the Western Ghats has shown a high number of frogs with deformities. “This alarmed scientists and environmentalists who found that such physical changes were caused by toxicity in the frog’s environment and food chain.” While the frog’s Ridge habitat is “relatively less polluted”, there is nevertheless a need to reduce pollution levels in Delhi to stop it from facing extinction.
 
 
