BENGALURU: Students joining   are coming to terms with the new   but they have a request to the management: reconsider the waistcoat. 

 The  , mandatory for I PU students, comprises an off-white shirt, a pair of black trousers and a maroon waistcoat with a buckle on one side. Students say it’s not in keeping with the image of the college, which is among the   of the city.
 
 Susan Fernandez (name changed), a newly admitted student, said, “If the uniform looked nice, we would want to wear it. Coming to MCC was exciting because it used to be one of the colleges which didn’t enforce uniforms on students. But that’s no longer the case. It is also unfair that only I PU students have to mandatorily wear the uniform and look like the odd ones out on campus.”
 
 Umme Hannum, another student, said: “The uniform, particularly the waistcoat, is making me rethink about joining this college.” 
 
 However, a few students don’t care about the uniform rule. Trisha J, a I PU student, told TOI, “Most of our parents want us to dress decently and be safe. A uniform addresses their concerns. It is the college and the education that matters to me, not the uniform.”
 
 College authorities are sticking to their decision nevertheless. Sister Ashwini Kumar, principal of Mount Carmel PU College, said, “A uniform can help maintain some discipline on the premises. Students are getting distracted due to the internet culture, and uniformity can make them focus on their studies. However, we may give students the option of wearing coloured dresses on Friday and Saturday. By next year, all students of the PU college will be clad in the same uniform,” she said.
 
 Pointing out that there have been instances of girls from other colleges hanging out at the Mount Carmel campus, she said: “A uniform will help us keep our environment safe.” 
 
 ‘Will stifle creativity’
 
 Alumni of the prestigious college have termed the move regressive. “I am taken aback by this decision of the management. It will stifle students’ creativity and self-expression, since most of us express ourselves through our style of dressing. Mount Carmel is known for its fashion and I don’t believe a uniform will help students in any way,” said Irene Augustine, an alumna who works with Anima Creative Modeling Agency. She was also the former secretary of the  .
 
 (With inputs from Aditi Pareek, Dia Mandepanda, Madiha Abrar, Namratha Hariprasad)
 
 
