PATNA: Skies over   turned cloudy in the early evening hours on Wednesday and weather forecasting agencies predicted that the intensity of   would increase over the Indo-Gangetic plains, including   for a few days from Thursday.

 While the   cover was attributed to a cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining sub-Himalayan West Bengal, the expected increase in intensity of fog was attributed to western disturbance.
 
 An all-India weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday afternoon stated that scattered to fairly widespread rainfall was likely to occur over Jammu and Kashmir in the next 48 hours under the influence of a western disturbance. The rainfall in the Upper Himalayan region is, in turn, expected to lead to increase in the intensity of fog over the Indo-Gangetic plains from Thursday.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet too predicted that dense fog was expected to grip parts of north-east Uttar Pradesh and the northern parts of Bihar over the next three-four days. This condition may occur due to the passage of a persisting western disturbance and another one is likely to affect the western Himalayan region and adjoining plains from February 2 onwards.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra tropical storms, originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause   snow or rainfall in the northwestern Indian subcontinent.
 
 Weather conditions, especially in terms of fog, had significantly improved in the region in the past week. Cold wave as well as cold day conditions had also subsided. The minimum temperature in Patna on Tuesday was recorded at 10.5 degrees C, which was equal to the respective normal.
 
 The fog is, however, expected to make a comeback from February 3 owing to reduction in cold north-westerly winds blowing at an average speed of 15-20kmph over the Indo-Gangetic plains. The revival of foggy weather is expected to lead to a drop in temperature, but the possibility of cold day conditions has been ruled out.
 
 
