PUNE: Rampant   around their housing societies near the   have irked residents no end. 

 They pointed out that garbage was being dumped illegally in open areas near a small hillock located near phase III of the IT Park and the same was being set on fire during night and early morning hours, leading to air pollution.
 
 The   IT Park has witnessed a significant increase in residential properties in the last few years. Local people have also been complaining of inadequate measures to manage garbage and segregate it.
 
  
 Anshul Gupta, who stays near phase III, said “There’s complete chaos on the garbage management front and the residents are not even aware whom to approach to get the issue resolved. We are witnessing rampant instances of garbage burning in the open. People are suffering because of air pollution. We are not aware who is involved in burning the garbage because most instances take place during early morning or night. The fire keeps spreading all over.”
 
 Gupta said the local gram panchayat and the MIDC, which own large tracts of land in the IT Park, need to get their act together to set up garbage processing units considering the increasing residential and commercial activities.
 
 Angry residents of the area have also raised their voice through social media platforms, including twitter, and tagged the departments concerned and the government’s Swachh Bharat mission.
 
 Vipesh Deore, another resident, said the issue has been raised before the gram panchayat members. However, even the gram panchayat has not been able to address the issue. “Over 7,000 people reside in the township and all are affected by burning of garbage. There has been no proper response so far. We don’t even know who is dumping and burning the garbage,” he added.
 
 Vijay Natu, who travels to Hinjewadi every day, said huge garbage mounds are visible all over outside the IT Park boundaries. “Garbage burning happens even during the day time. The residential population in the area has gone up. New townships are expected to come up in the coming years. The issue needs to be resolved at the earliest”, he added.
 
 
