Another new neta has plunged into politics. Following Tamil actor Kamal Haasan’s high-flying foray into politics, here’s tracking how a party gets launched

 
 
 
 Any Indian citizen over 25 years old and registered as a voter can contest an election without forming a political party. Associations too can contest elections without being registered by the  . They, however, will not be identified as a political party and will not be eligible for benefits a party enjoys.
 
 
 
 
 
 The   allows political parties to accept contributions. Every party may accept any amount of contribution voluntarily offered to it by any person or company other than a government organisation. Candidates of registered parties get preference in allotment of  . A registered party gradually can find recognition as a state or national party.
 
 A recognised party gets exclusive allotment of reserved symbols for state and national elections. All recognised national and state parties can use state-owned electronic media, ie: AIR and   for their campaigns during elections. The state and national parties need only one proposer (elector from the constituency) to file nominations and are also entitled to two free sets of electoral rolls. An Independent candidate needs 10 proposers.
 
 
 
 For starters, the party must be politically active for five continuous years. It should also have at least one Lok Sabha MP for every 25 MPs elected from the state in the last election to be recognised as a national party. An MP or MLA who becomes a party member after his election is not considered. A party functional for five continuous years that has returned at least one MLA for every 30 MLAs elected in the past assembly poll is recognised as a state party. The definition of 'state' for this purpose includes Delhi and Puducherry.
 
 A party recognised as a political party in four or more states qualifies as a national party.
 
 If a party polls 6% or more of total valid votes in the last Lok Sabha or state assembly election, it is also granted recognition as a 'national' party. The status of parties is reviewed after every two consecutive Lok Sabha polls or state elections.
 
 
 
 
 An application along with a non-refundable processing fee and the party’s constitution or rules-regulation is the first step. It should include a minimum of 100 members whose names are on the latest electoral rolls and who aren’t members of any other registered party. All documents must reach   within 30 days following the date the party was formed, delay in which makes applications time-barred.
 
