PUNE: Close on the heels of alleged irregularities in the police recruitment drive at Nanded, the Wanowrie police on Tuesday booked five office-bearers of a private software company here for manipulating answer sheets of   Group II candidates.

 Interestingly, the SRPF authorities had given contract to the same Pune-based company, which was involved in the Nanded recruitment scam, to prepare the answer sheets for the candidates. The answer sheets were to be accessed automatically with the help of computers.
 
 The SRPF Group II conducted physical and written examinations for the posts of police constables at its   campus in Hadapsar last month. 
 
 Inspector general of police (SRPF)   told TOI that the written examinations and its results have been cancelled by the SRPF and that they will call all the candidates for written examinations again. “We will again issue the schedule of the examinations to the candidates,” he added.
 
 Kumar said that the suspects have manipulated marks of the written examinations. “We will not conduct the physical tests again, but all the candidates will have to appear for the written examinations again,” he added.
 
 The SRPF officials are yet to ascertain the identities of the candidates who approached the software company officials to improve their marks. The Nanded police had unearthed the racket of written answer sheet manipulation wherein the candidates were given enhanced marks against their names.
 
 Some office-bearers of the company issued fake answer sheets to the candidates here and enhanced their marks against monetary gains. The police also claimed that the suspects registered the marks against the names of the candidates.
 
 Preliminary investigation by the Nanded police revealed that about 30 candidates from Pune were allotted good marks by the company office-bearers. The SRPF Group II officials have received a report from the Nanded police following which SRPF officials decided to file a complaint against the company office-bearers in Pune.
 
 Inspector   lodged the complaint with the police following which the five persons were booked.
 
