NEW DELHI: The Central Pollution Control Board has claimed that   and  ,   for   in  , are not on the river  . It had cleared both sites in April. 

  
  
 
 
 Despite AAP spokesperson Dilip Kumar Pandey and rebel AAP MLA Kapil Mishra recently moving National Green Tribunal (NGT) against allotting 130 acres at Sonia Vihar and 50 acres at Ghonda Gujran Khadar,   is sticking to its stand of the sites being suitable for landfilling.
 
 “We have visited the sites and these areas are not on the river floodplain. National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) had conducted a site sensitivity analysis (SSI), which also found the sites suitable. We will file an affidavit in NGT soon,” said a CPCB official. 
 
 Letters accessed by TOI show CPCB had cleared both sites in March and said these were in ‘no-flood zone’. It also stated that both were about 1,500 metres from a waterbody and 500 metres from the Sonia Vihar unauthorised colony. 
 
 According to a letter written on March 21 to the commissioner of the east corporation, Sonia Vihar has scored 430 in the site sensitivity analysis. “Any score below 300 is optimum for a landfill site. This site was found to be in the moderate category. In fact, there are unauthorised colonies located here. Are such colonies allowed on the floodplains?” asked the CPCB official. 
 
 Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan (YJA) members have, however, called CPCB’s analysis ridiculous. “Does it mean that both Ghonda Gujran and Sonia Vihar are not in the river zone of Delhi Development Authority (DDA)?” asked YJA convener Manoj Mishra. “The zonal plan of Zone O, in which these sites lie, the drainage master Plan of the city from 1950s, 1972 and 2018, all allude to these sites as on the riverbed. The geomorphological map of the city clearly also shows these sites as part of the ‘new alluvium’, which is floodplain. We have pictures that show the site under flood waters,” he said. 
 
 DDA’s zonal development plan for the Yamuna lists Sonia Vihar among unauthorised colonies in the river zone. Its zone ‘O’ map also includes Sonia Vihar and Ghonda Gujran, which means they are on the floodplains, said Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor of geology at Delhi University. “CPCB may be saying that no flooding comes here.” 
 
 However, it needs to realise that this area is a potential aquifer that can supply drinking water to a large number of people, he pointed out. “A similar Yamuna floodplain area in Palla supplies drinking water to residents costing Rs 1,500 crore at commercial rates. Even the most engineered landfill sites can have an irreversible impact on aquifers.” 
 
 
