MUMBAI: In a glaring case of apathy, ailing self-trained farm innovator Dadaji Khobragade (80), who revolutionized paddy farming by developing the high yielding variety of rice called  , is struggling to meet his medical expenses. His family has been forced to make a public appeal for donations for just Rs 2 lakh to pay for his hospitalisation.

 Khobragade, who hails from   village in   tehsil of eastern Chandrapur, has received more than 100 awards, including the prestigious President’s award, for his innovations. He was also on Forbes’ list of “seven most powerful rural Indian entrepreneurs whose inventions are changing lives across India” in 2010. Khobragade suffered a stroke 3 years ago and his health began deteriorating a few months ago.
 
  
  
 
 His son   told TOI from Nanded that for the past two years, his father has been on ayurvedic treatment offered free or at minimal cost by a local village doctor. “His health started failing over the past few months. We consulted a doctor in Nanded city who suggested that we admit him to a hospital. We were asked to make arrangements for at least Rs 2 lakh,” said Mitrajit.
 
 After learning of Khobragade’s plight on social media, digital marketing consultant   started a crowdfunding campaign for the family to collect Rs 2 lakh for him. By Monday, she had managed to collect close to Rs 1.2 lakh.
 
 Khobragade dropped out of school after   to help out his family on the farm. In 1982-83, he noticed three yellow seeded paddy spikes in his 1.1-acre field; he had planted the locally available Patel 3 variety of paddy. He picked up the three spikes, brought them home and stored them in a plastic bag for use next year. The following year, he sowed the seeds of this yellow variety separately in the middle of his field and secured this “test” patch with thorny bushes. When the crop was harvested, he realized that the yield had increased considerably. “My father gave these seeds to our neighbours and villagers. Their yield tripled. He suddenly became very famous in the district,” recalled Mitrajit.
 
 Since the name of the variety was not known, some of Ramaji’s friends who purchased the seeds decided to call it HMT, after the popular brand of wristwatch that Khobragade wore, said Mitrajit.
 
 Although Khobragade got recognition for his work, he could not monetize his seed innovations. In 1997-98, Khobragade had alleged that   (PKV), an agriculture university based in Akola, was commercializing his variety and had begun to sell it with the name PKV HMT rice. The agriculture university claimed it had “purified” Khobragade’s variety.
 
 “We led a humble life despite all the recognition. My father had to sell his land in 2010 to treat an illness that I had contracted. Later, a political party gave us a five-acre land on which we cultivate today. The past few years have been difficult, though, as our crop failed due to drought,” said Mitrajit and added that the family has incurred a debt of Rs 3 lakh.
 
 
