GOHANA: A woman and her family have accused the police of going slow in a dowry harassment, assault, outraging modesty and criminal intimidation case lodged by her against her husband and in-laws in   town of   district.

 Dr   had got a case registered at the Gohana police station against her estranged husband Parvesh Sharma, father-in-law   (an inspector with the Haryana Police) and mother-in-law Krishna Sharma on March 23. In her complaint, Sonia stated that she had married Parvesh on January 24, 2014, and her father had spent Rs 50 lakh on wedding ceremonies.
 
 She alleged in her complaint that unhappy over not getting an SUV of their choice, her father-in-law had forced her to get them more expensive gifts. Dr Sonia further alleged when she resisted, her father-in-law tried to force himself on her and restricted her movement inside their house and reprimanded her on one pretext or the other. Her husband and mother-in-law too supported her father-in-law’s excesses, she alleged in the complaint.
 
 According to the complainant, the situation worsened after she gave birth to a girl in 2016. She alleged when her parents tried to intervene in the matter on March 19, her husband thrashed her and confined her to a room and called up police to intimidate her. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Sonia said that the Gohana police should have arrested the accused following registration of the case, but under political pressure or inducement, the accused had not been arrested for the past 70 days.
 
 She further alleged that when her father Dr Ram Niwas Moudgil asked for delay in action, a police officer demanded assistance of a personal vehicle to search the accused. “After the vehicle was provided, the police asked my father to give the location of the accused to get him arrested and started making excuses on one pretext or the other,” she said.
 
 Her father Dr Ram Niwas said they have made 20 rounds of police officers and even tried to approach the Haryana DGP, but to no avail.
 
 Gohana deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajiv Deswal said he would look into the matter and would try to round up the accused in two days.
 
 
