Concerned over such incidents, Union home minister Rajnath Singh asked governor   and state DGP AK   to ensure peace and tranquility until the new BJP-IPFT government takes charge. 

 What added more to the BJP and the Centre's discomfiture were the tweets from Roy and BJP general secretary Ram Madhav that many construed as supportive of the demolition of Lenin's statues. 
 
 In his tweet, the governor had said that 'anything done by a democratically elected government can be undone by a new government.' Madhav's tweet, which was later deleted, added, "People taking down Lenin's statue, not in Russia but in  .  ." (Chalo Paltai or let's change was BJP's slogan in the election). 
 
 In a memorandum to Prime Minister   on Tuesday, the CPM politburo said Saturday, 514 Marxist cadres have been injured and 1,539 houses attacked. It added that 196 houses of party workers have been set ablaze and 134 CPM offices attacked. 
 
 It claimed that 208 CPM offices have been captured by attackers. The politburo asked for Modi's immediate intervention to end the violence in Tripura.
 
 A CPM statement said, "The destruction of Lenin's statue is symbolic of the rabid anti-Communist, anti-democratic fascist character of the RSS. These attacks clearly demonstrate once again that the RSS/BJP rely on political violence to advance their inherent anti-democratic agenda." 
 
 It asked all party units across the country to hold protests against the violence in Tripura.
 
 Refuting CPM's allegations,  , BJP's Tripura observer, said all these allegations are false. 
 
 "I appeal to CPM to publish the names and addresses of their cadres who it says have been injured. BJP has no role in the Belonia incident. It was an outburst of people's anger against CPM which was suppressed for 25 years."
 
 Deodhar said BJP is committed to ending all kinds of political intolerance. 
 
 "I assure you that once our government is formed, such incidents will never happen in Tripura," he added. 
 
 Police spokesperson Pradip De said there are no reports of any disturbances on Tuesday. 
 
 He added that the driver of the excavator that was used to demolish Lenin's statue at Belonia has been arrested. 
 
 "The statue had been installed with the approval of the local municipality. So, pulling it down is a crime. The matter is still under investigation. It could be an act of some miscreants," he said. 
 
 
