MUMBAI: The lone   in the BMC,  , has become the latest victim of a  , losing his   to the tricksters in  .

 Turde’s attention was diverted by the gang outside a traffic police chowkie on the busy   in Kurla (west) around 8.30 pm on Monday. “Such incidents are taking place one after the other on busy roads and the police mostly fail to catch the culprits,” he said.
 
 The incident took place when Turde was on his way to a relative’s home in Chembur from Kurla in his car. A man appeared on the left side of the car and suddenly cried out as if in pain, pretending that the car wheel had crushed his foot. He screamed at Turde and banged on the vehicle door.
 
 When Turde lowered the window pane of the car to check what had happened, another person banged on the car on the right side. Turde turned his attention to the right, which is when the man pretending to be injured picked up his mobile phone from atop the car dashboard and walked away.
 
 “Everything happened in a few seconds,” Turde said. “They created a panic-like situation and committed the crime. If they can scare a public representative like this, imagine what would be the plight of an ordinary person.”
 
 Turde said he had asked his party men to watch the spot where his phone was stolen for the next few days during rush hour. “We will try to catch the gang in case it tries to commit a similar crime again,” he said.
 
 Such gangs, called tak tak gangs because they knock on the car to attract the occupant’s attention to one side, mostly target people who keep their valuables on the passenger seat or atop the dashboard on busy stretches during rush hour, when vehicles move very slowly. They vanish from the spot within seconds of the crime.
 
 In March, a Powai resident, Eshan Pancholi, lost his mobile phone worth Rs 61,000 on a busy road in Andheri (east) while driving to work. Another motorist whose car was behind Pancholi’s clicked a picture of one of the gang members while he was fleeing. The photo was shared with the police, but they are yet to trace the culprit.
 
 
