PATNA: The state   on Saturday reacted cautiously to former Union minister and Margdarshak Mandal member Yashwant Sinha’s decision to quit the party. Without take his name, BJP functionaries described Sinha and others (party MP Shatrughan Sinha) sharing the   stage with him at a programme in Patna as the ‘frustrated lot’ and ‘bewafa’ (faithless, treacherous).

 “It was a gathering of all the frustrated lot whose only agenda is to stop the BJP from coming to power in 2019,” state BJP vice-president Devesh Kumar said and added: “They don’t have any positive agenda. We say we want to develop India and they say they want to dislodge PM   from power.”
 
 A BJP functionary said, “Why to give prominence to such people? We say good luck to them.”
 
 Besides Shatrughan, Congress representative and former Union minister Renuka Chaudhary, leader of opposition in the   assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Samajwadi Party representative Ghanshyam Tiwari and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) functionaries Sanjay Singh and Ashutosh Kumar, among others, shared the National Forum dais with Sinha.
 
 The state BJP functionaries also maintained that leaders like Yashwant and Shatrughan have been “airing their grievances for the last few years anyway,” and the national BJP leadership has also not taken note of it.
 
 Asked as to why a senior BJP member like Yashwant had turned into a critic of PM Modi and his government, the party’s state spokesman   quoted an Urdu couplet: “Jaroor kuchh majbooriyan rahi hongi, yoon hi koi bewafa nahin hota’ (there must have been some pressing compulsion, nobody becomes faithless for nothing). They got everything the party could give to them.”
 
 Tiger also said the party did not take any action against Yashwant or Shatrughan because criticizing PM Modi had become their habit. “It is good that Yashwant has left the party,” he said.
 
 Another state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said the incident “would not in any way affect the party workers’ morale,” and in fact, they are “always against such a lot of leaders who turn renegades.” 
 
 
