HYDERABAD: The   government’s flagship 24X7 free power scheme to the agriculture sector is taking a toll on groundwater table in the state and triggered a drinking   crisis. The dip in groundwater level is more than 1.8 metres since January 1, the day the free power scheme came into force.

 While the latest reports of the groundwater department indicate there has been a big drop in groundwater table in 22 of the 31 districts, 225 villages in 27 mandals have held grama sabha meetings and passed resolutions urging the state government to withdraw the 24X7 power supply to the farm sector on the grounds that it has resulted in a drinking water crisis. They have sent their resolutions to the respective Transco and discom offices with a request that the free power supply be restricted to 9 to 12 hours in two spells.
 
 After the scheme was launched on January 1, 2018, there has been a consistent dip in groundwater table. Both January and February months have reported a dip in groundwater levels in majority of the districts. According to the groundwater department, a net fall of 0.86 metres was observed during January as compared to the same period of 2017.
 
 The fall in water table levels was observed in 22 of the 31 districts. The maximum fall of 3.94 metres was reported from   district with the other south Telangana districts too registering a sharp fall. In February, a net fall of 0.8 metres was recorded by the groundwater department as compared to the corresponding period last year.
 
 
 
 
 The average groundwater level dropped from 9.18 feet in December 2017 to 10.97 feet in February 2018.
 
 Telangana is the only state to provide 24/7 free power to farmers. Experts had warned that Telangana being a rocky terrain, farmers had to depend on borewells for cultivation and providing free power would result in further drawal of water thus depleting groundwater table.
 
 Energy minister G Jagadish Reddy said the argument that 24x7 power supply to the agriculture sector was the reason for dip in groundwater table would not apply to all districts. “24/7 free power cannot be the only reason, as there was deficit rainfall in some districts. The drive to remove capacitors has been completed and farmers told to use power and water judiciously,” he said. Fall in groundwater level was more in March. Official sources state from January till date, dip in groundwater level was over 1.8 metres.
 
 The 24/7 free power is also depleting drinking water. As per the latest reports of the groundwater department, 18 of the 31 districts were facing drinking water crisis.
 
