NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: The Indian cricket board (BCCI) is looking at match referees serving in domestic matches to fill in as scouts so that national   don’t miss out on any talent. It is also learnt that   also wants to revive the Talent Resource Development Office (TRDO).

 
 
 Following a directive of the Supreme Court-appointed Justice   recommendations, the board had to prune the selection committee from five to three members. The number, BCCI thinks, is not enough to keep a tab on all players from all corners of the country.
 
 “At the moment, it has been decided that match referees will be mandated to provide feedback on player performance to help the national selectors,” a top BCCI official told TOI. “Even the current general manager (cricket ops)  , who was a selector in the last selection committee, felt that it is extremely difficult for even five selectors to effectively cover all domestic matches,” added the official. The SC-appointed Committee of Administrators ( ) has taken cognizance of the concerns.
 
 The BCCI is also likely to upgrade its Online Database Monitoring System (ODMS), which generally keeps a tab on the workload and fitness status of domestic players. A separate component regarding player performance is likely to be included in ODMS which will be then provided to the national selectors. “Reviving TRDO is still an idea. Nothing is concrete at the moment. The benefits of the wing is well documented as MS Dhoni himself came through this programme,” informed the source.
 
 
 
 
 With the BCCI witnessing a windfall, thanks to the mega IPL media rights deal, each of the eight league franchisees is likely to see a massive increment in its net central rights income. As per the revised budget, the board will disburse Rs 680 crore among the eight franchisees as the first installment. The franchisees have been assured a total disbursement of around Rs 250 crore each this season. This means that the franchisees are likely to make a profit out of their investments for the very first time.
 
 
