
  The   district administration has identified 5.50 acre land for developing a landfill site for disposing of 25,586 cubic metres of hazardous black powder (e-waste) lying on the banks of  .
 
  According to Rakesh Kumar Singh, district magistrate, “The land which has been identified is situated in Fazilpur village of Moradabad. I have written to principal secretary, environment, to request revenue board to transfer this land under the name of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board. If we get necessary approval from all departments concerned, we will shift the e-waste lying on the river banks to the secured landfill site so that the black powder does not contaminate the river.’’
  
  Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, who is representing petitioner Mahendra Pandey in the National Green Tribunal on the issue of illegal processing of e-waste on the banks of the Ramganga, said, “The state government has made a report for tribunal in which it is considering to develop transport, storage, disposal and facility (TSDF) in Moradabad for safe disposal of black powder and for catering to the needs of nearby hazardous waste in future. Such a project will not only offer safe disposal of black powder but also create additional TSDF capacity in UP for safe disposal of hazardous waste.’’
  
  Bansal added, “The report stated that once suitable land is selected as per the criteria of   (CPCB), tendering process will be required to invite TSDF developers for its development. Development of TSDF will require environmental clearance to be obtained under EIA notification, 2006. Tentative cost of development of TSDF will be Rs 10-16 crore and tentative timeline for development is nearly 12 months.’’
  
  Earlier, TOI had reported that the NGT was informed that a district-level committee had been constituted by the Moradabad district magistrate after inspecting the   in May last year. An estimated 25,586 cubic metres of black powder was found on the banks.
  
  In its report, the district-level committee observed that the samples were analysed by the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, which indicated presence of chromium, cadmium, copper, lead, nickel, manganese and zinc. The report stated that the concentration of metal was above the threshold limit specified in Schedule-II of the Hazardous and Other Wastes (Management and Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016.
  
  Of the total 25,586 cubic metres of e-waste, 9,950 cubic metres is present at Lalbagh, 975 at Dashwanghat, 4,650 at Nawabpura and 10,011 at Barbwalan banks of the river.
