CHANDIGARH: Besides the   (SAD), BJP and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs, Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo of the   on Friday walked out of the high-powered statelevel vigilance and monitoring committee meeting on welfare of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes as Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh did not attend the meeting.

 Finance minister   and scheduled caste, backward classes and minority welfare minister Sadhu Singh   were present in the meeting.
 
 
 Dullo said, “I have come all the way from Delhi. A number of important issues with regard to atrocities on Dalits and improper implementation of schemes meant for them were to be discussed in the meeting. But it was surprising that the chief minister chose not to attend the meeting.” The Rajya Sabha MP further said earlier too the chief minister had called the meeting of the MPs and had chosen to stay away.
 
 Adampur SAD MLA   said, “There is hardly 2% conviction rate in cases related to atrocities on Dalits in Punjab and they are not getting justice at the end of police. Post matric scholarship money is not being released. Since the chief minister did not come, other important officers like the DGP also failed to attend the meeting.”
 
  said even the agenda for the meeting was circulated on Thursday evening. “It has been months and the post of chairperson of the Punjab SC commission was lying vacant,” he added. Budhlada AAP MLA Budh Ram also walked out of the meeting.
 
 The finance minister told TOI, “The chief minister was not well. Therefore he had to cancel all his meetings scheduled for Friday.” Since two cabinet ministers were part of the Friday’s meeting, they were competent to take decisions which also have the same legal sanctity as that of the chief minister, he added. “It is collective responsibility of everyone to think for the welfare of the scheduled castes. We tried to persuade Dullo sahab but he did not listen,” said Badal. He further added that since 2015, it was Congress government’s sincere initiative to hold the meeting by preparing a detailed agenda.
 
 During the meeting, it was decided that the meeting be held every six months – in January and July, from now on. It was also decided to soon issue a notification incorporating amendments to the Prevention of Atrocities Act-2015 to facilitate increase in the conviction rate.
 
 Dharamsot said the committee has also decided to hold quarterly meetings of deputy commissioners, district and sessions judges and commissioners of police or SPs with the district authorities to address issues of the SCs and the STs.
 
 He added special courts had been made operational in 15 districts to provide speedy justice to the victims of atrocities. As many as 404 cases had been registered under the SC/ ST Act during 2015-18 for murder, grievous hurt, rape, arson besides SCs and STs (POA) Act, 1989, said the minister. Monetary assistance of Rs 2.23 crore had been disbursed to the 639 affected persons through the deputy commissioners, he added.
 
