JOHANNESBURG: Barring the chances of running himself out while batting, like he did in Port Elizabeth after another miscommunication with opener  ,   has simply looked unconquerable to bowlers here in South Africa.

 
 Right now, as the long tour moves into the Twenty20 zone, Kohli doesn’t stand second to any batsman in the world.
 
 There was a certain aura of invincibility to Kohli’s batting. As the India captain led his team to a 5-1 wrap-up, his 35th century in the process only underlined his superiority.
 
 Upon arrival here, Kohli had been barraged with questions and they never seemed to end, given a volley of ‘experts’ tracking his every move: questions asked of the decisions he took while selecting the playing XI, the time his team got to prepare, and on and on. He kept answering them as much as he could, sometimes with patience, at times losing his cool.
 
 On Friday, after he scored yet another century – and this one more to celebrate the form that he’s been in than having to bat his team out of trouble – the skipper left no stone unturned in conveying to the world in general that “what outsiders say doesn’t matter to this team”. The key to consistency, Kohli said, was not thinking too ahead.
 
 “If you are thinking about being ahead of someone else then you will be found out very soon by this game, and you are compromising on what the team needs as well,” said Kohli.
 
 Asked if he could now be termed as the best batsman in world cricket, the straight-talking skipper said: “As I said, I don’t want any tags. I don’t want any headlines. I just go out there and do my job, it is up to the people to write what they write, I don’t want to be called anything.
 
 “It’s my job, I am supposed to do what I am doing and I am not doing anyone a favour, so just want to be in this zone of working as hard as I can and trying to do the best for the team,” he said.
 
 Kohli said he had a fair idea headlines keep changing day in and day out. “Tomorrow I play a bad shot and get out for zero everyone will conveniently do what they want to do. If I make a mistake I will come here and accept it. I’ve never been one to give excuses and will remain like that. But I’m never one to come here and praise myself.
 
 “I can never do that because as I said, this is a job for me. I’m not doing anyone a favour. I’m just stepping out to do my job,” he said.
 
 In the thrashing he gave the South African bowlers, the captain was clearly busy trying to make a statement to those, he strongly believes, have questioned his motives and preparation coming here.
 
 “I know that 90% of the people didn’t give us a chance after the (first) two Tests. What matters is the respect in the change-room. What matters is what the management thinks about me.”
 
 
