NEW DELHI: Being refused entry into his in-laws’ house by his estranged wife, when he had gone there with some bananas for their child, appears to have been what pushed an already unstable   off the edge. What followed was pure horror – six people bludgeoned to death with an iron rod within an hour, for no apparent reason.

 
 
 A police probe has indicated that Dhankar, 49, a former   officer, was undergoing treatment for mental illness at a clinic in Ballabhgarh. Cops said doctors and Dhankar’s family members had told them he was on medication to keep calm but would become aggressive when the effects wore off. He had apparently stopped taking the medicine a year ago.
 
 
 
 
 Cops said   drove to his in-laws' house in Palwal (Haryana) around 11pm on Monday seeking a meeting with his wife. When she refused to let him in, he returned home. Around 1am on Tuesday, he again reached his in-laws' house, and picked up the iron rod from a construction site next to the house.
 
 Neighbours say he kept calling his wife’s name, asking her to allow him entry into the house as he was feeling cold. After some time, he left and sneaked into a hospital, where he attacked his first victim -- a pregnant woman. By 4am, when the police caught him, he had killed five more people -- four security guards at different locations, and a vagabond. He was thrashed by police and public and suffered severe injuries to the brain. He underwent brain surgery at Safdurjung hospital but is said to be still in danger.
 
 Dhankar’s elder brother, Chanderpal, a retired subedar, said he had been living a reclusive life ever since he had to quit the Army after being declared medically unfit for military service.
 
 “He had had attacked a soldier while he was posted with 21Rajput battalion at Kalimpong. The soldier was responsible for supplying Dhankar’s troops with warm clothes but had got delayed. His unit had got him treated at an army hospital where doctors had prescribed him lifelong medication for keeping his aggression under control,” Chanderpal said, adding that the medical board had declared him fit for civil employment. During his army days, Dhankar used to channel his aggresion through boxing.
 
 A graduate from Hisar Agriculture University, Dhankar fell in love with a girl there but his family didn’t allow him to marry her, leading to his first bout of depression. He was the youngest among five brothers.
 
  
  
 
 
 After quitting the Army, Dhankar completed his MSc from a university in Faridabad where he topped his batch and joined as an assistant divisional officer with the agricultural department of the Haryana government. “He was transfered several times. He would get aggresive during raids against illegal grain hoarders,” said Chanderpal.
 
 Police said that Dhankar had no friends even at his work place. He had shifted to Bhiwani where he worked and lived in a PG. “We got him married in 2007 and had told his wife, Seema, about his erratic behaviour since his childhood. She agreed to take care of him. But he raised his hand on her when she decided to take a job. Following that, she left the house with their son after some months. This led to depression, which he told us about several times,” said Chanderpal.
 
 Dhankar’s maternal uncle Narpesh Singh said that he last met him two years ago, when Dhankar had reportedly requested him to persuade Seema to return to him. However, she refused to meet him. After their father’s death in 2010, Dhankar cut himself off from the rest of his family and would meet them only occassionaly.
 
 Family members say Seema would return to her father’s house in Palwal’s Adarsh Nagar area when he came home on weekends to avoid a confrontation. “This has been going on for the past six months. He told us that he was staying without food for days since his wife did not leave anything for him. He had also not had medicines for nearly a year,” said his nephew, Navin.
 
  On December 29, Chandarpal asked Dhankar to come to Palwal so that they could go and see a doctor in Muradnagar later.
 
