The bustling lane of Baraipara displays a spread of delicacies during   as we walked through Matia Mahal, the road opposite Raipur’s   to discover various moods and characteristics unknown. The aroma of fuming kebabs and fried chicken will take you places while your eyes feast on stacks of vermicelli, dates and breads sold in small street stalls. The medley of cultural influences is richer than the food served. As par t of the Ramzan celebrations,   takes you to a food walk in one of the oldestlanesin the city. With Badi Masjid in the backdrop, the outer lane (Urdu Bazaar Road) is lit up with kebab shops. Among many, Lalu’s and Qureshi’s stall is 80 years old. The slender and juicy kebabs are served hot off the griddle and put you in the mood. These are the softest kebabs that you’ll find and full of flavour.
“Ours is a family business and for generations we are selling kebabs here. During iftar time, we serve over 200 people from different communities. During Ramzan time, we reduce our prices to half so that more people can come and savour kebabs here,” says Qureshi Mian, owner of the shop. You can eat kebabs here at Rs 40 a plate which comes with four kebabs.
 
 
 
 Just ahead of Bilal, head here for some serious feasting. Pieces of meat are cooked for hours along with saffron flavoured rice to give you a place of delicious biryani, without which your food trail will be incomplete. The Mirchi Masala Biryani is a must try at Mota Pehelwaan which is a 100-years old Biryani seller in the area. The mirch masala biryani is a
 
  
 
 Originally from Uttar Pradesh, you’ll find his food carts dotted across the lane selling a blush pink drink popularly called ‘Pyaar Mohabbat Maza’ sold in Rs 30. “This refreshing concoction is a mix of watermelon, milk and Rooh Afza. It's fragrant, it’s light and it’s got these gorgeous chunks of watermelon and it is a must have during summer and Ramzan,” shares the seller of the drink Nizam Khan.
 
 
  
  
 The nihari at Bilal is so sublime that it’s absolutely worth elbowing your way to get here. A plateful of nihari with moti roti is very popular among the people. “The meat is slow-cooked for hours to make it delicate and tender. It is then simmered in gravy with a mix of spices handed by our grandmother we served it with squeeze of lime juice and green chillies. We also serve haleem. The combination is traditional and people prefer it that way,” says Mohammad Iqbal, owner of the 50-year old stall.
 
 
 
 Turn left right opposite Gate no 1 to enter Matia Mahal and head straight to Haji Mohammad Hussain’s. At Haji Mohammad, try the fried chicken which is served with red chutney. But people mostly make a beeline for keema golis. “During Ramzan, Haji also serves Keema Golis (minced meat rounds served with onions). If you reach here around iftar time, you’ll manage to get your hands on them. People buy them in kilos for iftar parties too,” says one Razia Hussein, who comes here twice a week to savour keema golis from the other side of the city— Naya Raipur.
 
  
  
  
 
 After savouring fried food, you come across those large platters of beautifully decorated shahi tukda and matka phirni you know you can’t resist. Golden fried slices of bread simmered in milk and topped with khoya and desi ghee made our lips curl into a smile every time we tucked in a bite. You can buy them at the popular Haji Bhai stall opposite Matia Mahal in Rs 20.
 
  
  
 
