TRICHY: The   (CII), Trichy zone, is in the process of preparing the Trichy District Development Plan to attract investments. It will study the availability and requirement in infrastructure and other parameters for doing business.

 The detailed study about the district, which is expected to be completed in another month, will serve as a tool to invite established and developing entrepreneurs from other parts of the state and country to launch their operations in the district.
 
 The representatives of CII   on Friday held a meeting with collector   to discuss the potential pockets in the district to invite investments. Manapparai, Thuraiyur, Tiruverumbur, and Manachanallur blocks have been proposed as potential localities considering lands available for industries.
 
 “The development plan will disclose the availability and requirements of the district pertaining to the desired infrastructure like connectivity and land area available. The development plan will serve as a catalyst in promoting the presence of industries in the district,” said A S Ananthakrishnan, vice-chairman, CII Trichy zone.
 
 For the next 2-3 years, investors would be approached and informed about the facilities available in the district through the district development plan.
 
 Citing that poor domestic air connectivity was a major let down for Trichy to attract investments from state and national capital, CII Tamil Nadu members said that they would approach private air carriers to increase the domestic connectivity for Trichy international airport. As of now, only Chennai is connected with Trichy among domestic airports, sources said.
 
 Addressing the reporters on the sidelines of YUTRY 2018, an entrepreneurship conference to serve as a platform for identifying entrepreneurship models from students, P Ravichandran, chairman of CII Tamil Nadu on Friday said, “Tamil Nadu Business Facilitation Act 2018 is a boon for entrepreneurs looking to do business in the state as all the   and   could be received within 29 days.
 
 
