VELLORE: A ball of hair weighing nearly 2 kilograms has been removed from the intestine and stomach of a seven-year-old girl, who was suffering from rare ‘Rapunzel’ syndrome, by a team of doctors at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital.

 Rani (name changed), daughter of construction workers and native of  , was admitted to the hospital on February 14 with complaints of chronic abdominal pain and vomiting for over six months. “The girl was referred to the GH by one of the doctors who treated her. We noticed a swollen mass in the upper abdomen portion. Her parents also informed us that the girl was not taking food properly and was frequently vomiting for nearly a year. It aggravated over the last six months when the girl started suffering from severe pain,” said paediatric surgeon  , who performed the surgery on March 6.
 
 The girl’s mother had noticed a change in the girl’s behavior and also found locks of the girl’s hair missing six months ago. The doctor treating her suspected that it could be a case of   (a mass found stuffed in the gastrointestinal tract), which was confirmed by tests later. 
 
 “We found that a ball of hair masked the abdomen and the intestine of the girl. We have come to a conclusion that the girl was suffering from Rapunzel syndrome. Going by the amount of hair found in the intestine and abdomen, the girl would have been ingesting locks of hair for at least six months,” said the doctor, and added that it was a rare case and only 45 to 50 cases of   have been reported and documented across the world till date.
 
 “The condition was a fallout of depression,” said the doctor, adding that the girl was depressed as she felt insecure. After coming home from school, the girl spent at least nearly four hours alone, since stopped living with her grandparents a year ago. “We removed the ball of hair weighing between 1.5-2kg in a surgery that extended for close to 90 minutes. The girl recovered well and has started to take food. She has gained around 2.5kg weight post-surgery,” said Dr Gopinath. The girl was discharged on Monday.
 
  The doctor added that they have to perform follow-up endoscopy for every six months to one year regularly to pick up any reoccurrence. 
 
 
