MUMBAI: The   has allowed a 13-year-old rape survivor from Pune to terminate her 26-week pregnancy. The survivor lives with her mother on a pavement near Bund Garden locality. She had been raped by a stranger when she had gone to a public toilet. 

 A bench of justices Shantanu Kemkar and Makarand Karnik heard the girl's petition which had been filed through her mother, seeking direction to terminate the pregnancy which is beyond the permissible legal limit of 20 weeks. Since the girl had been threatened by the rapist, her pregnancy was revealed to a non-governmental organisation,  , only at 24 weeks. 
 
 After a criminal offence was lodged, the accused was arrested. The court initially directed the medical board of Pune's   to examine her, but there was "no clear opinion" on whether there is a risk to her life. On April 27, at the insistance of her advocate, Saranga Ugalmugle, a medical board of the state government-run J J Hospital was directed to once again examine the girl.
 
 The report of the J J Hospital board states that though there is no abnormality detected at present in the foetus, it is not advisable to continue with the pregnancy as it may endanger her life. The report also said that the girl is likely to develop pregnancy-related complications, including anaemia and hypertension, and its psychological impact on her. "At 26 weeks of gestation, termination of pregnancy also carries risk to the mother (minor). However continuation of pregnancy would be riskier. Hence it is advisable to terminate the pregnancy,'' the report has concluded.
 
 The judges, in their order dated May 4, 2018, also noted that the psychiatrist's report states that the minor "is very anguished with the pregnancy". Having regard to her age, the trauma she has suffered because of the alleged sexual abuse and agony which she is going through, and will continue to go through all through her life, the report and her fundamental right to life, the judges said, "it will be appropriate and in the interest of justice" to permit medical termination of pregnancy. They directed the dean of   to carry out the medical termination of the pregnancy within a day or two.
 
 
