MUMBAI: Perhaps ‘iwespeak’, a forum to start conversations for informed choices, could not have invited a better speaker than leading divorce lawyer Malavika   for its inaugural Clovelley (a UK- based platform to initiate dialogue) lecture in India. A feminist who believes all religions practice patriarchy and therefore have not given equal rights to women, Rajkotia exposed the “duplicity” of Uniform Civil Code (UCC).

 Speaking at a relaxed setting—terrace of an old building at Kala Ghoda—before a select group of citizens from the society’s upper crust, Rajkotia passionately argued why reforms in Personal Laws from “within the communities” should be preferred to any move to impose one size fits all UCC which would in all probability be a Hindu law.
 
 
 Though the topic for the evening was ‘The state of Indian marriage and whether India needs a Uniform Civil Code’, the speaker devoted more time on how India’s unique pluralism and inclusiveness is not suited and yet prepared to accept UCC.
 
 In a talk punctuated with references to Rigveda, Mauryan kings   and Ashoka, Buddha’s opposition to women becoming monks and the British Raj’s efforts to set up commercial courts while leaving the indigenous communities to follow their Personal Laws, Rajkotia passionately argued that the majoritarian itch of the current dispensation would not give a just UCC and it would be disaster if a UCC was imposed.
 
 “UCC is a marvelous idea. It sounds good that there will be one law to decide inheritance, property rights but it is not the right time to bring in such a law. Hindu marriage is sacred while Muslim marriage is a contract. At a time when homogeneity and majoritarian views are imposed, the fear is that UCC will be nothing but a Hindu Code,” she said.
 
 Rajkotia who has handled divorce cases of several high profile people, including former J&K CM Omar Abdullah, has penned a semi-academic book “Intimacy Undone: Law of Marriage, Divorce and Family in India”. She surprised many in the audience by saying that “Islamic laws give more to women than a woman gets under the Hindu laws.”
 
 “Under Muslim laws a woman get share in the property of parents as well as in the husband’s property while more often than not a Hindu woman has little right on the streedhan she receives from her parents,” she said. She also opposed the criminalization of triple talaq under the bill passed by the Lok Sabha and stalled in the Rajya Sabha. Sparks flew in the question-answer session with many saying that Rajkotia sounded anti-women.
 
 “I don’t want to look like I am here to throw women before a bus,” she quipped, arguing that she is for women’s rights.
 
 Leading lawyer   summed up the discussion saying that Rajkotia’s thought-provoking talk encompassed history, customs, Hindu and Islamic laws.
 
