KOLKATA:   Bhaichung Bhutia on Monday resigned from   party.

 "As of today I have officially resigned from the membership and all the official and political posts of All India Trinamool Congress party. I am no longer a member or associated with any political party in India" Bhutia wrote on micro-blogging site twitter. 
 
  
  
 
 Trinamool Congress chose not to react immediately. Union minister of state for home Kiren Rijiju, however, was quick to wish Bhutia the best for his future.
 
 Bhutia had retired from professional football in 2011 and later joined   in 2013.
 
 In a January 30 report, TOI had indicated Bhutia would quit Trinamool Congress eyeing a larger political role in Sikkim. Bhutia had even expressed this to his party leadership (Trinamool Congress) then, saying he wasn’t keen to join any political party but wanted to be part of a larger political platform espousing Sikkim’s cause in New Delhi. 
 
 The wedges between Bhutia and Trinamool Congress had deepened irreversibly during the 104-day Darjeeling strife. He unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from the Darjeeling constituency. He lost to union minister and MP S S Ahluwalia. 
 
 A close aide of Bhutia said, "After lives were lost in the agitation, he had been very unhappy. He also felt Sikkim MPs did not do much and did not speak about the issue in Parliament when some other parties did," the aide added. Quick to sense an opportunity, political leaders in Sikkim had been making a beeline to his home in Tinkitam, South Sikkim.
 
 In this backdrop, Rijiju’s statement in Twitter immediately hasn’t gone unnoticed. Rijiju wrote, “Football icon and former Indian captain Baichung Bhutia's resignation from TMC was expected. He told me he has high regards for   but unable to cope with the situation. He desires to do more for football and Sikkim. My best wishes to Bhaichung for his future endeavor.” 
 
 The Sikkim state assembly elections coincide with the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Though the ruling Pawan Chamling-led SDF is an ally of the NDA-ruled Centre, in Sikkim, BJP has been raising its pitch against the state government desperate to create a political space for itself.
 
 
 
