NAGPUR: Deendayal Bahu-uddeshiya   (DBPM), Yavatmal, was conferred with the Vidarbha-level ‘Ramabai Ranade Memorial Education Awakening Award’ at a programme held to mark the 91st anniversary of   Educational Institution, Nagpur (SEI), at its   facility on Tuesday.

 DBPM was set up in 1997 and has been chiefly working for overall development of the Pardhi community. It has also contributed a lot in containing farmer suicides in Yavatmal district and put in efforts for the betterment of suicide-affected families.
 
 In her address after receiving the award on behalf of DBPM, Jyoti Chavan spoke about how the organization worked tirelessly to stop unjust and atrocious practices prevalent in the Pardhi community and thanked the office-bearers for guidance. She spoke about the achievements of the mandal such as getting 234 women employed and adopting 400 suicide-affected families. The award carried Rs51,000, certificate and memento.
 
 Speaking at the event, president of SEI   said, “Honouring those who fight difficulties, work for the benefit of the society and make people capable enough to live a life without even craving for fame deserve to be rewarded.”
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule said, “This is the third time that this award is bestowed. These awards are the source of encouragement for such organizations to work even better. All out efforts should be made to strengthen such organizations.”
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar and MLC Nago Ganar spoke highly of SEI and its contribution to women’s education and lauded DBPM for dedicated work. 
 
 Chief guest Jeetendranath Maharaj, peethadheesh of Shri Devnath Math at Anjangaon Surji in   district, called the work of SEI and DBPM as divine and saintlike. He said, “These organizations have not only provided money to the needy but also inculcated values like cohabitation and morals in their lives.” 
 
 He recited shlokas depicting importance of social service in life and advised to work for God, religion and the nation. “Service needs no efforts. If not wealth, one can always shower people with love, care and kindness,” he added.
 
 Working president of Ramabai Ranade Memorial Award Committee Vasanti Bhagwat, secretary   and secretary of SEI Indubala Mukewar were present.
 
 
