AGRA: Gun wielding motor-bike borne masked assailants, allegedly rained bullets on the MP   representative, while he was heading home on Monday late night.

 The incident took place in   police jurisdiction at around 11:30 pm, when victim identified as  , was driving back to home in his SUV. Two bullets penetrated in his car, but fortunately, none hit Verma.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Verma said, “On Monday afternoon I had went to   to meet local farmers and get their applications for loan wavier appeal. In evening, while I was discussing the matter with my party members, I received a phone call at around 8:15 pm, in which the caller, threatened to kill me.”
 
 “I kept on asking, as who is the caller, but he refused to reveal his name and verbally abused me. After the threat call, I immediately informed the circle officer of Bah, DSP Satyam, but even after one hour no cop came to meet me, hence I left for home, but just 500 meter away from my village  , two assailants on motor-bike waylaid my car and rained bullets.”
 
 Adding further, Verma said, “I left the car and ran toward home and made distress call to Dial 100, who immediately reached and noted by complaint.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, DSP Satyam said, “By the time police reached Bah to meet MP representative Ramavatar Verma and note details of threatening call, he had left for Jarar. When contacted on phone, he said, he is going back to home. Later at around 11:30 pm, we received distress call of bullets been fired on him.”
 
 “The surveillance team have identified the caller, he hails from Verma’s village. The Pindaura police is now probing the matter,” he added.
 
 Station officer of Pindaura , Kanta Prasad said, “The MP representative has neither given a written complaint nor he is disclosing any names, from whom he had received threats earlier. We need his cooperation to probe the matter.”
 
 It’s important to note, that six-years-back, during Samajwadi party regime, Ramavatar Verma had sustain bullet injury in leg, after a rival of him rain bullets on him, but Verma did not file any FIR and came to a compromise.
 
