NEW DELHI: With airlines increasingly ‘recommending’ large   (PED) like laptops and batteries be carried in hand bags and not checked in, the Central Industrial Security Force ( ) has spelt out its rules for the same. 

 CISF chief OP Singh told TOI: “Battery is allowed in hand baggage if it is dry. (While) there is no restriction (on number of batteries in the bag, the quantity being taken should suffice the need of device. (Like) if a camera has four batteries, then four batteries will be allowed.”
 
 He added that the agency — which is in charge for hand bag checks and passenger frisking at Indian airports — normally allows one or two extra batteries. “For laptop normally one more extra battery is allowed by screeners at airports,” Singh, a senior IPS officer who is soon going to head UP Police, said.
 
 Clearly in terms of quantity, the agency wants to allow PEDs and batteries in hand bag that can be justified for personal use. This view is shared by airlines also. A senior official of a leading Indian carrier told TOI: “The number of PEDs in hand bags should be such that they are for personal use. CISF decides about the quantity during checks. Like if a flyer is taking a bag full of batteries then that will definitely lead to doubt.”
 
 Last October, the   (IATA) had decided to restrict passengers and crew from travelling with more than 15 PEDs, and to a maximum of 20 spare batteries from January 1, 2018. The IATA statement giving this new rule quoted its assistant director (safety) Dave Brennan saying the restrictions were necessary to minimize the risk caused by having too many lithium batteries on board.
 
 “When we fly a lot of us have a laptop, tablet, a phone, even two phones, and that’s quite reasonable. But what we are seeing is people flying to different parts of the world—where they can buy PEDs very cheaply—and they’ll maybe purchase 20 or more devices. They might think, ‘I’ll keep one and sell the other 19’. For that reason, (it was) decided to apply a limit.”
 
 “There could be, for example, a passenger with a hearing aid who needs to carry a pack of spare button cell batteries. These pose no significant risk at all… Another example is camera crews, who need to move with larger numbers of spare batteries. We see that as reasonable. But what we’re trying to do is clamp down on people buying several PEDs at the other end of their journey,” the IATA statement had said.
 
 These restrictions are due to the rising incidence of batteries in PEDs catching fire. If this happens on a PED in the  , smoke can be noticed and steps taken immediately to handle the situation. On the other hand, a fire in PED or spare battery kept in cargo hold could go undetected with disastrous consequences.
 
