PUNE: The   ( ) has sent closure notices to 12 prominent restaurants in the Camp area, directing them to either establish the basis of their converting the user purpose of leased residential defence land for commercial exploitation or close their outlets in the next three months. “We have sent notices to these establishments after examining all legal aspects and asked them to show any government or court order that enables them to use the leased land for commercial purpose. If not, they will have to close their businesses,” the board’s chief executive officer, D N  , said on Sunday. 

 
  
 
 “In case of their failure to respond to these notices, the issue will be placed before the board’s upcoming meeting and opinion of the members will be sought before taking further course of action,” he told TOI.
 
 The cantonment board had received 15 trade licence renewal applications last year. Since these establishments fall under the jurisdiction of the defence estates office (DEO), Pune, these applications were forwarded for its remarks. 
 
 The DEO’s report, however, recommended renewal of trace licences for only three of the 15 outlets. The remaining 12 were issued notices on Saturday. 
 
 As per the cantonment rules and local bylaws, a property can be used for commercial purposes only if it is located within a notified civil area of the cantonment. The PCB is responsible for the management of properties inside that area and also has the powers to determine the purpose of use of such properties. 
 
 “Properties outside the civil area in the cantonment are under the management of the DEO. However, the PCB still needs to approve the purpose of the building being leased out,” a board official said.
 
 Some of the restaurant owners, who have been served notices, said they will seek legal remedy against the board’s notices. 
 
 “We have been running our business for more than two decades and had never got such a notice in the past. Now, suddenly the board is talking about misuse of defence land,” an owner said.
 
 Civic activist and cantonment resident   said the board should issue a public notice if they want to bring a major change in the (cantonment) areas. 
 
 “Most importantly, the cantonment board should understand one aspect that how these restaurants were allowed to run for these many years in the first place,” he said. 
 
 
