BHUBANESWAR: After a gap of six years, the   has resumed the practice of   of its   (formerly known as  ). A   (Lisha), who retired from the police service a few days ago, will go under the hammer on Thursday. 

 At present, each police district has a K-9 squad. And the squad of Crime Branch has seven trained dogs of four breeds - Labrador, Doberman, German Shepherd and Golden Retriever. Lisha, 12, was the lone ageing Labrador in the squad. She has been serving in Odisha Police for the past 12 years. 
 
 "We had floated tender last week. The tender process will be closed on Wednesday. The next day we will open the tender in the presence of bidders and select the person for quoting the highest price to whom Lisha will be sold," additional director general of police (Crime Branch) Santosh Kumar Upadhyay told TOI. 
 
 The base price of the auction has been fixed at Rs 500. Bidders have been asked to visit the kennel club of Crime Branch to inspect Lisha and procure the tender paper from the office of SP (Crime Branch). 
 
 Crime Branch sources said the auction practice was discontinued after 2012-13. Though the officers did not cite the exact reason of the discontinuance, sources said, the Crime Branch apprehended misuse of the auctioned dogs. "Our dogs were trained. We had purposely stopped the practice as people might ill-treat the dogs. So the retired or ageing dogs were allowed to stay in the kennel till their death," another Crime Branch officer said. 
 
 "We decided to resume the practice as we have to bear the expenses of the retired dogs every day. Besides, we will be able to purchase new puppies towards the vacancies," the officer informed. Crime Branch purchases a puppy at the age of 5 months. The puppies are trained for six to seven months at a BSF camp in Madhya Pradesh before being engaged in the police service. Each trained dog works for nearly 11 years. Sniffer dogs are used to trail criminals involved in the murder, robbery and theft, among others, while tracker dogs are used for detection of explosives and narcotic substances. 
 
 Official sources said the K-9 squads of Odisha police were engaged in 613 cases involving theft, robbery and murders across the state in 2016 out of which police successfully solved 187 cases. 
 
 
