In this episode of  ,   enters the stage and greets the audience to the last Weekend Ka Vaar episode of this season. He says that Puneesh and Akash have made it to the finale episode. 

 Salman then shows footage of when Rani Mukherjee entered the house. Rani brought a fun task in which the contestants had to mimic each other. The audience has a good laugh at this task. 
 
 Rani thinks that  's mimicry of Akash was the best and praises his acting skills. She bids goodbye to the contestants and leaves through the front door. 
 
 Salman Khan then greets the contestants. He is angry at Akash. Despite being in the finale of the show, No one like Akash. Salman shouts at him and tells him that he will be beaten up if he behaves like this outside. Akash apologizes to Salman.
 
 Salman then scolds the nominated contestants for giving up their position to Puneesh and Akash. Vikas says that Shilpa and Hina gave up their positions to them as they felt the commoners have worked much harder than the celebrities. Salman says that this is the reason their fans are disappointed.
 
 Salman asks Vikas to rank the contestants. He ranks them as Shilpa, Hina, Vikas, Akash, Luv and Puneesh. Hina also agrees with his ranking. Salman then takes leaves the TV screen in the house.
 
 Akash thinks about whatever Salman said about him. Shilpa and Puneesh also talk about how the audience in the mall were talking bad about Akash. 
 
 Rani Mukherji then meets Salman on the stage and pulls his leg about having kids. Both of them dance on the song Chandi Ki Daal Par and Hata Sawan Ki Ghata.
 
 Rani then plays a fun game with Salman and takes his leave. Salman then addresses the contestants and talks about the eviction. He says that the eviction will happen in Sunday's episode. 
 
 Salman then brings a task for the contestants in which the contestants have to speak the truth about each other. Hina calls Shilpa the most unhygienic contestant of the house. Hina and Shilpa win the task and Salman asks Akash to get their trophies from the storeroom. 
 
 He tells the contestants that the evictions will happen the next day and takes their leave. 
 
