PUNE: The Ramwadi   inched towards completion after the   to Kalyaninagar flank opened on Wednesday morning, but teething travel issues are not expected to ease out till the full completion, according to local residents.

 The completed flank on the New Airport Road deviated slightly from its original path, with the owner of a plot of land along the original alignment refusing to vacate the land which was tangled in litigation previously. 
 
 The flank has thus taken a sharp turn left, and then has a steep slope towards the underpass. Another branch of that flank takes motorists to  .
 
 “It is a relief that this stretch has finally opened. I have to travel to   through Koregaon Park every day. The whole detour through the Hyatt crossing was harrowing, as that chowk always has traffic jams,” Rajan Nair, a businessman who lives in Vimannagar, said.
 
 Motorists who want to take the New Airport Road from Ahmednagar Road have to still go through the Hyatt crossing, as no end is in sight for the Siddharthnagar slum issue. 
 
 The original plan has a slip road beside the Kalyaninagar to Vimannagar flank, which would be used by motorists towards the airport from Ahmednagar Road.
 
 The slum residents are still fighting the PMC in court against compulsory land acquisition, and have put up a large flex stating their demands, vowing to not vacate the land.
 
 “This is our home. We have ID cards and everything at these addresses. The PMC just cannot ask us to leave like that,” Usha Gore, a resident of the slums for the past two decades, said.
 
 The PMC says that it is now looking at alternative options. “We have had some discussions to use some vacant land near Dunkirk Lines, to bypass the slums, and build the slip road there,” an official at the Ahmednagar Road ward office said.
 
 Despite traffic signs, motorists who want to travel towards the New Airport Road have been using the flank meant to carry traffic in the opposite direction. On Wednesday morning, motorists used to driving on the wrong flank still used the porous median at the end of the New Airport Road to travel towards Kalyaninagar on the wrong side, unaware of the new opening.
 
 “I genuinely did not know that the new flank had opened. I am always in a rush, so I often take the wrong side here. I am sorry,” was all Gurdeep Singh could muster, after being confronted and chastised by other motorists.
 
 
