PUDUCHERRY: A contract worker posted as a mortuary attender in Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research ( ) was   on charges of receiving Rs 1,500 from a family member of a   woman for ‘performing’ postmortem.

 The issue came to light after a video of the worker identified as Velmurugan receiving Rs 1,500 went viral on WhatsApp. The worker, who retired from Jipmer as a mortuary attender three years ago, was permitted to continue in the same post on a contract basis by the Jipmer administration owing to his ‘exceptional skills’ in assisting the postmortem examinations.
 
 “We came to know that a contract worker received a   to arrange postmortem examinations following a video that went viral on social networking platforms. The administration terminated his services immediately. The contract worker had served as a mortuary attender at Jipmer. He retired from service three years ago. The administration posted him on contract for his extraordinary skills in assisting the postmortem examinations. He is highly skilled. There is no doubt. But demanding or receiving bribe is a serious offence,” said a Jipmer official on condition of anonymity.
 
 The woman in question, from Marakanam, who was battling for life after she consumed poisonous seeds following a quarrel with her husband, died at Jipmer on May 16. Velmurugan received Rs 1,500 from her husband Paramasivan to perform the postmortem. Paramasivan’s friend discreetly took a video of Velumurgan receiving the money and circulated the video on his WhatsApp groups.
 
 The institute performs on an average five to 10 postmortems per day and a section of staff members, including regular staff members, at the mortuary demands a minimum of Rs 1,500 from the relatives of the deceased to perform the postmortem. “The lion’s share goes to the group’s leader, while the rest of them share the remaining. Such illegal practices are more common in departments where retired workers are permitted to continue in service on a contract basis,” said a daily wage worker appointed by Jipmer.
 
 These daily wage workers, who have formed a union, have been demanding the Jipmer administration not to extend the services of retired workers on contract basis. 
 
 However, sources close to Velmurugan said he was made a scapegoat in the tussle between the retired workers given an extension on a contract basis and daily wage workers directly appointed by Jipmer. They pointed out that only Velmurugan was terminated from service, while others, including the gang leader who takes the lion’s share, have been spared.
 
 
