Meerut: Three days after regional inspector (RI) in Regional Transport Office (RTO) of Meerut, Rajendra Kumar Padha, was allegedly physically assaulted by at least 50 BJP men after he refused to give in to “political pressure” from one of the agents here, Padha was given suspension orders on Monday. The RI, who had moved to Meerut nearly six months ago, has now been attached to Lucknow headquarters with his senior officials citing “behavioral issue with public and continuous complaints being made against him”.   “Regional inspector (technical) Rajendra Kumar Padha is suspended with immediate effect over continuous complaints coming in against him and behavioural issue with the public, due to which official work was being hampered. Despite giving repeated warnings to him, no change in his behaviour was noticed,” read the order issued by P Guru Prasad, UP transport commissioner.    On Friday, at least 50 BJP members, including party’s Shastri Nagar mandal president Sanjeev Sharma allegedly barged into the RTO premises, misbehaved and assaulted Padha. The BJP men allegedly forced the RI out of his office and pushed him into the assistant regional transport officer’s cabin after Padha refused to bow to “political pressure” from one of the agents here. The RI claimed that the agent tried to put pressure on him to get his work done by calling up BJP men every now and then, but Padha said he had refused to relent. On their part, the BJP members claimed that they protested because of “corruption” charges against Padha.    “We had complained about the corrupt action and behavioural issues of Padha to state transport minister Swatantra Dev on Friday and given details of the incident to him. We had complained about Padha in the past as well. I am glad that action has been taken against him,” said Sanjeev Sharma, BJP’s Shastri Nagar mandal president.    While no police complaint has been filed so far, a letter informing the district magistrate about the incident was sent on Friday itself.    “Though the suspension letter arrived at Meerut on January 1, it is very suspicious that I was physically assaulted and suspended on the same day, December 29. It is sad that I was the one charged with allegations of behavioural issues and then suspended, whereas I was the one who was assaulted,” said Padha.    While the RI said he believed that believes that he had been suspended because he refused to give in to political pressure, RTO Vijay Kumar said it was “a mere coincidence” that the suspension letter was issued on the same day as the alleged assault, and that the departmental action was based on previous complaints.