AHMEDABAD: While CID (crime) is hunting for the persons who kidnapped   and Piyush Savaliya, an administrator and an office boy at Bit Connect, respectively, it has emerged that the company’s “Bit Connect Coin” offering was launched in December 2016, barely a month after the demonetization of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes was announced.

 CID officials said from the timing of the BCC offer, there was a direct connection between the unaccounted cash available after demonetization and Bit Connect, the virtual currency investment company run by Satish Kumbhani, Divyesh Darji and Gautam Lathiya.
 
  “All three fled the country along with Dhaval Mavani. While Kumbhani, Darji and Lathiya escaped in December 2017, Mavani was forced to leave the country on February 15, 2018 by   Bhatt and his accomplice, who had extorted 2250 Bitcoins, 11,000 Litecoins and Rs 14 crore cash — worth Rs 155.21 crore in total — from him,” a CID official said.
 
  “Bit Connect earlier brokered investments in Bitcoins. After demonetization, they launched BCC through a lucrative multi-level marketing scheme, offering 4% returns a day on bringing in new members. We suspect that Bit Connect Coin was launched with the intention of laundering black money,” added an investigator.
 
 CID crime officials said between December 2016 and December 2017, Bit Connect sold BCC for thousands of crores and the promotors then fled after shutting down operations.
 
 Shailesh Bhatt connected to schools in Rajkot, Amreli
 
  CID investigators said Shailesh Bhatt’s nephew,   Bhatt, was arrested at a school in Rajkot. “He had gone there to attend a board meeting of the school. A school in Amreli is also run by Bhatt. We are probing Bhatt’s connection with the schools, as it is likely that money got from the kidnapping could be invested in such entities or businesses. Dilip Kanani, one of the accused arrested in the Surat kidnapping case, owns many acres of land in the   area of Surat,” added a CID crime official.
 
 Bhatt parked Bitcoins in Nikunj’s wallet
 
 CID officials said Shailesh Bhatt parked 250 Bitcoins in the blockchain wallet of his nephew, Nikunj Bhatt. “Nikunj returned the Bitcoins to Shailesh a couple of days after the kidnapping. Nikunj still has 20 Bitcoins in his wallet, which we will soon recover,” a senior CID official said.
 
 
