CHENNAI: Passenger amenities at   are set to get a significant upgrade, with the Chennai division of   having started work on giving out spaces for at least three  , a new unreserved ticketing counter and a roof for the pathway between the main and suburban terminal station.

 One of the benefits for passengers will be a new unreserved ticketing office near Platform 1, which is accessed by people from the   side. Many passengers who come by trains from and to northern and western India, which are parked at Platforms 1, 2 and 3, have to walk all the way to the neighbouring   (MMC) building, where the unreserved ticketing counter is located on the ground floor. More than 90% of railway passengers are in the unreserved segment.
 
 “This is a major hassle and the new counter will resolve the issue. They can come via Walltax Road and buy the ticket there itself,” said a senior railway official. This will also help distribute the rush in the queues, the official added. 
 
 More changes are in the offing on this side of Chennai Central. The division has also planned to construct a food plaza here. Currently, passengers have to travel to the old concourse to get food and if they are in a rush to catch trains, it might not be possible to do so.
 
 Another food plaza has been planned beside the ATM on the new concourse, say officials. The space is currently vacant and in the past has been used by Southern Railway to conduct awareness programmes including one on bio-toilets and another by the RPF on trespassing on railway tracks. The station has lacked a major food plaza since February 2015.
 
 The third food plaza will come up between MMC and Chennai Central, for which Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has already short-listed seven contractors after floating the tender.
 
 The food plazas will have multi-cuisine outlets which will be providing food at market rates, the official said. “They will be tendered by IRCTC, but space has been identifed by the railways,” he said. 
 
 Currently there is a minor food plaza on the new concourse, but it has been shut down as the previous contract expired in February. A new contractor has been identified. 
 
 Chennai Central caters to more than five lakh passengers every day and passengers have constantly complained about the lack of food options at the station ever since the major food plaza was closed down in 2015.
 
 The division has also planned to provide a roof for the pathway from MMC to Chennai Central, which is currently open. This will benefit passengers during heavy rain and harsh sunlight in summer, say railway officials. 
 
 “Many passengers who come to Chennai for the first time are not even aware that the MMC, which is a suburban terminal, and Chennai Central, a passenger train terminal, are in the same complex. They often get confused despite a clear pathway. If we provide a roof for the pathway, it will indicate that both stations are linked to each other,” the official said. 
 
 
