NEW DELHI: The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Saturday mandated the use of electronic way (e-way) bills from April to track inter-state movement of goods but deferred a decision on a simplified return filing process due to lack of consensus.

 As a result, the current return filing system was extended by three months with a group of ministers tasked with working out a simplified mechanism that also checks evasion. 
 
 A group under   chairman   proposed a new system, backed by several ministers, but central and state tax bureaucracy held the view that the system was not robust enough to plug evasion, a concern they have flagged for the past few weeks.
 
 “The Council felt there should be single return every month, it should be simple, not prone to evasion and (there was a need to discuss) how to simplify it further,” finance minister Arun Jaitley said.
 
 As a result, businesses will continue to file summary sales returns GSTR-3B and final sales return GSTR-1 till June.
 
 Jaitley said from April 1, e-way will be implemented for inter-state transportation of goods with a phased inclusion of intra-state movement, starting April 15. For this, states have been divided into four groups and will gradually begin tracking movement of goods shipped within their territories. The first group of states to rollout intra-state e-way bill on April 15 will be decided on April 7. All states will have the system in place by June 1.
 
 The e-way bill, which is required to be presented to a GST inspector if asked, is billed as an anti-evasion measure that could boost tax collection by clamping down on trade currently happening on cash basis. From April 1, transporters of goods worth over Rs 50,000 will have to generate e-way bills.
 
 The Council decided on an e-wallet scheme to refund exporters by October 1, 2018 — the date till which exporters can continue to claim tax exemptions. Accordingly, merchant exporters can pay a tax rate of 0.1% on goods procured for export and obtain a refund for the same.
 
 Domestic procurement made under Advance Authorization, EPCG and EOU schemes were recognized as ‘deemed exports’ with flexibility for suppliers and exporters claiming refunds. The Council also suspended the provision for deduction of TDS and collection of  , and implementation of the reverse charge mechanism until June 30. 
 
