Jaipur: Residents concerned about the depleting   in Jaipur, can heave a sigh of relief. Showing positive trend, the recent post-monsoon survey conducted after 2017 rainfall revealed that water table has increased by 3 to 5 meters in many locations. However, depletion has also been recorded in major areas such as Jagatpura and Amber.

 According to the officials, the maximum increase 5.70 meters has been recorded in Muhana area. Vidhyadhar Nagar and Jhotwara area which fall under dark zones have witnessed 2.65 meter and 1.45 meter increase, respectively. An official at state ground water department said, “Withdrawal rate of groundwater was 200% more than the rate at which this source is getting recharged. This year, monitoring agencies, have strictly checked illegal borewell connections in the city.”
 
 “There is a provision that for each borewell, one recharge structure should be developed within 45 days. In case it does not happen, the borewell should be treated as illegal. Till this year there was no strict implementation, however, the state ground water department and district administration has ensured recharge structure are constructed. Illegal structures were also checked,” said a senior hydrologist in ground water department.
 
 There is significant rise in the water table after the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) had stopped withdrawing water from 2,000 hand pumps in the city. “Supply of Bisalpur Dam water in many new areas has resulted in usage of groundwater. Moreover, Mukhyamantri Jal Swavalamban Abhiyan in Rajasthan has certainly created awareness among the residents,” said the official.
 
 Meanwhile, there are many areas in the city, where water table has depleted in due to non-availability of surface water. As new residential complexes that are coming up like Mahal Yojana in Jagatpura depend on surface water, decline in water table by 2.25 meters has been witnessed. A senior official of UDH department said, “Private borewells are a serious threat to groundwater table. The PHED department will have to take the responsibility of providing water to the high-rise apartments in the city.”
 
 
