GURUGRAM: Councillor of ward number 34, R S Rathee, has alleged that MCG has deposited by “mistake”, Rs 4.63 crore of the Rs 10.60 crore it has paid to the private agency it has hired for the city’s  , in the company’s  . 

 
 Rathee alleged the said amount was to be deposited in the escrow account of   Private Limited after MCG had signed an agreement with it to purchase power. Eco Green is supposed to collect   for 18 months initially, after which it’s supposed to begin producing power, when the corporation is supposed to negotiate modalities of purchasing power from it. Only then is the agreement supposed to be signed. 
 
 MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav said Rathee demanded an inquiry. “MCG officials in the know said the amount can be deposited in the escrow account, and the agency can withdraw from it whenever it faces a shortage of funds. I’ve asked for an inquiry, and if it’s found the amount was deposited before time, it will be adjusted against future payments,” he added. 
 
 TOI has a copy of the transaction receipt, dated December 27, 2017. In total, the company has received Rs 10.60 crore between December 2017 and February 2018, with all transactions made during the tenure of the previous commissioner V Umashankar.
 
 As per the revised sanitation budget for 2018-19, the agency will be paid Rs 24 crore for garbage collection, compared to Rs 3 crore it had received during the previous year. The sanitation budget, too, has been revised upwards, from Rs 15 crore to Rs 50 crore.
 
 Rathee, who has been raking up the issue of the agency’s poor performance, said MCG has issued 25 notices to it on various irregularities, including irregular garbage collection, deploying fewer staff, not installing dustbins and poor call centre response. “The agency didn’t bother to respond to all but four of the notices,” he said. 
 
 Eco Green CEO Ankit Aggarwal said transactions have been made as per agreement. “Also, the escrow is a joint account controlled by MCG, so there’s no scope of misuse of funds,” he said. 
 
