  :   blew up a mine-protected vehicle (MPV) using an IED in   on Tuesday, killing nine   personnel and critically injuring two others. The attack comes just 11 days after the killing of 10 Maoists by Greyhounds on the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border. The site of Tuesday's attack is close to the border and about 80km west from the spot where 12 CRPF men were killed in an ambush by Naxalites on March 11 last year. 

 The IED was so powerful that it ripped apart the heavily armoured vehicle like a tin can and hurled it in the air, sending bodies flying in all directions. Some bodies were found 20 to 30 feet away. The MPV's blast shields were completely breached.
 
  
  The CRPF jawans - all in civvies - were rushing to reinforce a CoBRA unit that was pursuing Maoists after an early morning encounter near Kistaram camp. The rebels retreated, veered around and attacked the patrol party. Sources said there were nearly 150 Maoists near the blast site. 
 
  "Nine CRPF jawans of 212 Battalion were martyred and two injured when Maoists triggered an IED under an anti-landmine vehicle while they were out for patrolling from Kistaram to Palodi in Sukma district. They were only 1km from the nearest camp in Palodi," special DGP (anti-Maoist operations) D M Awasthi told TOI. CoBRA commandos had engaged the rebels in a gunfight at 8am after which the Maoists retreated. 
 
 "Seeing the retaliation of CoBRA jawans, the Naxals initially retreated into forests. Again, at about 11.30am, they targeted another team of 212 Battalion CRPF in Kistaram," said CRPF spokesperson Dinakaran Moses. The explosions were triggered around noon.
 
 "We have airlifted the injured to Raipur for treatment. The bodies of martyred jawans too will be flown to the state capital," Awasthi added.
 
 The martyrs hailed from UP, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Rajasthan and Odisha.
 
 Union home minister   expressed his condolences and tweeted: "I pray for the speedy recovery of the injured jawans. I spoke to DG CRPF regarding the Sukma incident and asked him to leave for Chhattisgarh."
 
 Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh condemned the "cowardly attack". Only a day ago, he had embarked on his month-long Lok Suraj Abhiyan from a remote village in a Maoist-affected area of Dantewada.
 
 "Maoists are facing a crisis and fear for their existence due to rapid development work in Bastar. They oppose development and try to mislead local tribals, and when infuriated, attack our security personnel. It displays the anti-people and anti-development mindset of the Naxalites," he said, praying for the speedy recovery of injured jawans.
 
 At a high-level meeting, the CM asked security forces to intensify operations in Maoist-hit areas of Bastar.
 
 
