NAGPUR: After a complete U-turn by the State  , Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday granted bail to the seven accused in the multi-crore irrigation scam. Those granted bail include RJ Shah Company owners   and Kalindi Shah (sisters),   directors Vishal Thakker and his father  , employee Arun Kumar Gupta, and technical head Ramesh Kumar Soni, having power of attorney. 

 A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre told six of them to deposit Rs5 lakh each along with solvent surety of like amount, subject to correction, along with their passports, so they could remain present as and when required for the investigations. VIDC’s divisional accounts officer Chandan Jibhkate also secured bail on the condition of depositing Rs1 lakh along with solvent surety of like amount.
 
 In its statement, the ACB said after prime accused Jigar Thakkar (41) committed suicide on February 27 by shooting himself in Mumbai, it didn’t require custody of other petitioners. But in March 5 hearing, the ACB had strongly opposed petitioners’ bail apprehending they may tamper with evidence and influence the witnesses to create hurdles during the trial.
 
 “With the death of prime accused, we don’t require others’ custody, as we already recorded their statements and all of them had cooperated by regularly reporting at the police station. Last time, we opposed the bail plea, as the Jigar was alive,” ACB’s deputy superintendent Milind Totre told TOI.
 
 He clarified the ACB didn’t oppose the bail on humanitarian grounds as well, considering old age of Shah sisters. “We have nothing to recover from other accused and the charge sheet was already filed against them. We just requested the accused shouldn’t try to tamper with the evidence, influence the witnesses, and remain present whenever called for investigations.”
 
 After Jigar’s issue cropped up, HC sought information from senior counsel Anil  , assisted by Sumit Joshi, representing the petitioners, on whether his death had anything to do with the investigations related to the scam. The lawyer clarified the cause of death was yet to be ascertained and prima facie it appeared there was no connection with the ongoing probe or charge sheet filed in Mokhabardi Lift Irrigation Scheme’s (LIS) tail branch canal work.
 
 Mardikar then requested to drop Jigar’s name from petitioners, which was accepted by the court, before allowing their plea. 
 
 
