Amritsar: Amid the demand of giving independent status to Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC), Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) is all set to nominate Sikh representatives from across the country to elect PSGPC’s next president in February.

 “We will complete the process of nomination of Sikh representatives from all four provinces of Pakistan, including Punjab, Sindh, Khyper Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan, following which they will elect their president through an election process,” said ETPB chairman Farooq-ul-Saddiq while talking to TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Presently Tara Singh, son of an industrialist and philanthropist Hari Singh from Sindh province, is the PSGPC president, which is largely considered as a puppet body functioning under the direct control of the ETPB, which takes majority of decisions on behalf of the PSGPC. “One of our major and long-pending demands is to make the PSGPC an independent body,” said Sikh leader from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Radesh Singh.
 
 Another Sikh leader from Karachi, who didn’t want to give his name said, “Important Sikh religious decisions in Pakistan are taken by Muslim chief of the ETPB, who not only dictate his terms and intervene in the Sikh religious affairs but also makes decisions to suit political interests of Pakistan.” To buttress his claim, he said once the ETPB was headed by Pakistan’s ISI chief Javed Nasir.
 
 Farooq said 12 members would be nominated from all four provinces of Pakistan, who would further choose their president and other office-bearers. Sources said Tara Singh could once again be the choice of Sikh leadership of Pakistan since he was in the good books of both EPTB and ISI. 
 
 It is a known fact that Pakistan has been fanning the Khalistan movement and has also given shelter to some of the most wanted Sikh terrorists in its country, who are under the direct command of the ISI and are presently using social media for making venomous propaganda against India. General secretary of the PSGPC Gopal Singh Chawla publicly flaunts having friendship with one of the most wanted terrorists Hafiz Sayeed.
 
 
