CHANDIGARH: "RIP research", read one of the placards held by the   chemistry department students who continued to protest outside the vice-chancellor's office for nearly four hours on Thursday demanding the restoration of the SciFinder facility, which has been discontinued in the department. The chemistry students also boycotted their classes and lab work on Thursday. 

 SciFinder is a research discovery application that provides access to the most comprehensive source of references, substances and reactions in chemistry and related sciences.
 
 "With the discontinuation of the service, around 130 students have been affected. This university is known for its research. Now, the standard of research in the university is deteriorating. The total number of research publications from chemistry department was 195 during the year 2016-17. The number of publications will get drastically affected due to the unavailability of the SciFinder facility," said Priya, a research scholar from the department of chemistry.
 
 PU librarian   met the protesting students on Thursday. "The cost of subscription is around Rs 30 lakh and we were facilitated with SciFinder through Inflibnet. They told us they cannot continue to provide us the subscription and we will have to subscribe to them on our own and pay for the facility. The subscription got over in February 2018 but we got that extended till April for the students. However, we have had a talk with the FDO to approve the budgetary requirements," said Yadav.
 
 The students met the authorities, who have sought 10 days' time from the students to find a solution. "The SciFinder is the basic facility a researcher requires when he/she starts his research. It is the most reliable tool to review literature," said another research scholar from the chemistry department, Deepak Rohilla.
 
 "We were given an option to avail the facility by going to IMTECH, which is a CRIKC institution. But not all students will be able to go to IMTECH everyday despite the facility of shuttle bus service available to us. They have sought 10 days' time. However, they have not given us anything in writing. We are trying to get the students of all the science departments together since the facility is used by other science departments as well," said Priya. 
 
 
