KOLKATA: A nor’wester with a wind speed of 48km/hr hit Kolkata on Saturday evening, leading to a steady drizzle in the northern, eastern and central parts of the city.

 Triggered by two low-pressure troughs that stretched from Jharkhand to Assam and from   to Vidarbha, the thunderstorm was much milder in intensity than the one that had struck last Tuesday and left a trail of death and destruction. It, in fact, failed to qualify as a squall since its peak wind speed of 48 km/hr lasted less than a minute. The accompanying rain, however, left cricket-lovers heartbroken as the Kolkata Knight Riders-Kings XI Punjab match was disrupted at the Eden Gardens.
 
 The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) had predicted asquall with a wind speed of 50-60km/hr, accompanied by lightning, hail and moderate rain in Hooghly, North 24 Parganas and Kolkata. There was apprehension about another devastating storm and the civic authorities had taken measures in advance. As the clouds gathered and lightning began to strike, Kolkatans scurried home. Eventually, though, the squall didn’t quite materialize. It followed the predicted path but turned out to be a moderate one. The thunderstorm sailed across Kolkata and North 24 Parganas towards  .
 
 “An 8-9km tall cloud column had formed due to the low-pressure troughs and the incursion of moisture from the sea. There had been enough heating in the   area which made the conditions perfect for a thunderstorm. But unlike the last squall, this was not a supercell thunderstorm. On Tuesday, there had been a convergence of small ‘cells’ or clouds that intensified over Kolkata leading to a devastating storm. But Saturday’s was a weaker system that had been generated by a moderate squall line. So, it was a moderate thunderstorm,” said GK Das, RMC director.
 
 So far this year, Kolkata has received three squalls, including the one last Tuesday that had a peak wind speed of 98km/ hr. It was a ‘supercell thunderstorm’ that had a rotating updraft known as a mesocyclone. Mesocyclones are usually 2-10km wide and about 3km tall. A supercell thunderstorm is an intense, relatively large thunderstorm that produces severe weather and can last for several hours.
 
 “Last week’s squall had a 12km-tall cloud column, 30-40km wide and moved towards the city at a speed of around 10-12km an hour. It generated great wind speed due to the preceding heat and the height of the cloud column. On Saturday, the column was relatively short,” explained Das.
 
