The state legislature has enacted numerous laws to check defacement of public properties. But what is shocking is that the laws have mostly remained only on paper because the enforcement agencies like the   ( ) have failed to discharge their duties. And the prime reason the agencies cite is “political pressure”.

 The Bombay high court has issued a series of directives for curbing defacement of public properties. Civic activists in Pune are disappointed with the municipal and the police administration’s “inability” to implement these directives. They say there’s almost no control over activities such as putting up of illegal hoardings, flex boards, banners, sky signs, archs and digital boards, mostly by political organisations in violation of the Maharashtra Prevention of Defacement of Public Property Act, 1995.
 
 
  
 
 PIL litigant   says, “Illegal advertisements like putting houses on rent and selling properties are on display at public places such as PMPML buses, bus stops and depots, trains, railway stations, MSEDCL boxes, electricity poles and compound walls of buildings at prominent chowks and junctions. Defacement is increasing because PMC is not taking action against political parties, their leaders and activists for displaying posters, banners and flex boards. There are high court directions to take action against the offenders like imposing fine and filing cases under the Defacement Act. but that is not happening.”
 
 Qaneez Sukhrani, convener of Vimannagar Citizens’  , says, “We made the PMC commissioner issue a circular under the Defacement Act to lodge FIRs, but in vain. On January 1, I raised the issue to curb defacement of public property on the stretch between   road and Ramwadi in the Lokshahidin. But PMC is not keen on taking action. If I am paying taxes, then why should I see damage to public property? Officials should be issued showcause notices for not implementing the laws.”
 
 Maithili Manakawad, PMC’s ward-level sky sign committee member, said, “Whenever we bring the issue of defacement of public properties to the officials’ notice, they complain about manpower shortage and threats issued by local goons. India is the only place where we see defacement of public properties because there is no implementation of the laws. BMC has signed an MOU with political parties that they will install hoardings, posters and banner board at a particular place.”
 
 She adds, “Illegal flex boards of birthday greetings, appointments and congratulating students for success in examinations have become a nuisance. PMC is losing revenue and we cannot visualise a smart city with defaced properties. We have beautified three walls at Wanowrie to encourage sports and writing messages to follow traffic norms and undertake Swachhata Abhiyan.”
 
 Activist   says, “Installation of hoardings, flex boards, posters, banner boards and archs creates environment pollution and causes destruction to public properties. Such offences are on the rise because PMC is not taking action against the offenders at the ward level.”
 
 Activist Shashidhar Puram says, “PMC has created a system to give permission for putting up banners and flex boards, but politicians don’t approach them because they don’t want to pay the display charges.”
 
 Deputy commissioner  , in-charge of the PMC’s sky sign department, said, “In 2017, we took action against people for putting up 1,17,840 lakh banners, 140 hoardings, 20,144 boards,7,128 flexes, 11,231flags and 36,422 posters and filed 13 FIRs under the Maharashtra Municipal Act.”
 
 He adds, “We have created a facility for citizens to make complaints on a toll-free number, 18001030222, and PMC Care App. They can also make written or oral complaints at ward offices. We receive around 100 complaints per month and we take action. PMC earns about Rs 42 crore from such penalties. We have earmarked 1,749 hoarding sites. Permission to put banners and flex boards is given for a period of three and seven days at the ward-office level.”
 
