Following the visit of Canadian PM   to India in February, shadowed by the "Khalistan" references and controversy over the dinner invite to former Khalistani militant Jaspal Atwal, expressions like “Sikh extremism” and “Khalistani extremism” have started cropping up in Canadian media and political debates. Coming close on its heels, the motion announced by Conservative Party in parliament to condemn “Khalistani extremism”, has also fuelled apprehensions among the Sikhs about its impact on the perception about the community among other Canadians.

 According to sources, Conservatives put the motion on hold after Sikh circles in Canada lobbied with Conservative MPs and other Sikh leaders of the party that they would lose support of the Sikh community if they went ahead with the motion.
 
 The fears of the Canadian Sikhs may not be totally unfounded. Canada-based Gurjiwan Singh, who studied law at  , has compiled a list of mainstream articles, editorials, op-eds and videos discussing or referencing “Sikh extremism” in Canada. “The list is at 135 and counting, and each link was published in February. 
 
 The numbers get much higher when you start looking at local media outlets and American news networks,” he mentioned on his FB post. “Growing up as a visible minority can be challenging enough. It becomes even harder when your co-workers and neighbours begin reading even a couple of these 100s of articles and start forming opinions about Sikhs that have no basis in evidence or facts,” he added.
 
 “This sort of political rhetoric will damage the reputation of Canadian Sikhs in the public eye and hurt the community immensely, particularly our youth,” tweeted   while tagging Conservative MP   who had tweeted the text of the motion.
 
 
 Some other netizens from the community also posed similar questions and apprehensions to MP Rempel.
 
 Toronto-based Mandeep, a second generation   tweeted: "I’m born and raised in Toronto. I love Canada. It’s my home. Yet, everywhere I go, many people think I’m terrorist. I’m tired of this portrayal, and I refuse to allow my government to push this false narrative. Walk in my shoes for a week and you'll know what I mean.”
 
 
 He also replied to Rempel, saying, “Please don’t support India’s narrative of Khalistan terrorists in Canada. There’s no proof. There’s only Sikhs who want justice for the families that lost loved ones ...”
 
 
 Sikh youth leader Jaskaran Sandhu questioned Conservative MP Erin O’Toole’s motion and asked MP Rempel, “You are singling out a single community with this motion, with no nuance or appreciation to the threats to a united India and the secular Indian state. What recent Khalistani ‘extremist’ act can you pinpoint that warrants a sudden motion like this.”
 
 
 “Sikhs will not be used as political pawns. All political parties should be speaking up against the smearing of Sikhs and defending Canadians against foreign interference and intimidation. We deserve and expect not to be labelled as terrorists. This is not a game,” tweeted Ontariobased Sarabjit Kaur. Sunny Hundal, a UK journalist tweeted, "Indian elites exaggerate Sikh militancy in the West".
 
