CHENNAI: A year after services started on the city’s first underground   rail stretch, between   and Nehru Park via Poonamallee High Road, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd (CMRL) is readying to open other stations on the route including a part of Central Metro as well as stations on  .

 
 On Monday morning, the commissioner of metro rail safety started last leg of inspections on these lines. If the lines receive the official go-ahead after the conclusion of the inspections, CMRL will open metro rail stretches from Nehru Park to Central Metro and Little Mount to AG-DMS before the end of May, officials said.
 
  
  
 
 A team of officials from the commission of railway safety (CRS), under the ministry of civil aviation, headed by the railway safety commissioner K A Manoharan, began the inspections at the   station. The officials will till Tuesday conduct checks on the upline from Shenoy Nagar to Central (5.62km), covering six stations, and the downline from Central Metro to Nehru Park (2.5km), linking three stations.
 
 The CMRS said it had verified documents related to the stations and tunnels that CMRL submitted before the inspections. An independent safety assessment was also conducted prior to the CMRS inspection and metro rail received a certificate for the line between Shenoy Nagar and Central.
 
 The commissioner will inspect the 4.5km line between Little Mount and AG-DMS on May 18 and 19 after receiving the independent safety assessment certificate. “We will get the certificate in a couple of days,” the commissioner said. At Central Metro, the team will check the upper track to   and beyond on Poonamallee High Road and the concourse level. The lower track level linking   on one side and Anna Salai via May Day Park on the other is not yet ready.
 
 “We will be checking track parameters, tunnels and stations, calibration of the trains and firefighting systems among others,” Manoharan said. “We will also witness mock firefighting drills to check the efficiency of the tunnel ventilation and exhaust system.”
 
 Once the lines are opened, commuters will be able to take a direct ride on the transit system from Central Metro to   and the airport via stations on Poonamallee High Road.
 
 Passengers from Anna Salai will also be able to get to the airport in 30 minutes or proceed to CMBT after shifting corridors at Alandur.
 
 
