Kanyakumari: A gazette notification declaring fishermen who went missing during cyclone Ockhi as dead is likely to be published before the end of this month. This is expected to offer much relief to the distraught families of the fishermen who have been pushed to penury after the disastrous night of November 30 when the cyclone wreaked havoc in the seas and along the coast.  A total of 199 fishermen who went fishing in boats from Kanyakumari before the cyclone struck have been missing since then and are feared dead. District collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan chaired a meeting with officials and other stakeholders here on Monday based on the GO issued by the government on January 12 pertaining to declaration of the missing fishermen as dead and disbursal of compensation to their families. Chavan told TOI that 149 of the 199 fishermen who went missing hailed from 15 villages in the district. While most of them were from the coastal villages there were a few from inland areas of the district too. “We have formed five committees with around 40 people, comprising officials from the revenue department and village leaders,” he said. Though village level committees had to be formed to individually inquire about the missing people, such committees had been formed in villages where more fishermen were feared dead. On completion of the detailed inquiry, the district level report is likely to be prepared in 10 days and sent to the state government. It will also be notified in the gazette and published in the respective villages and in leading dailies. If there is objection from anyone in declaring them as dead they could inform the district administration within 15 days of publication. If there was no objection to the notification, the first phase compensation of Rs 10 lakh would be deposited in the bank accounts of the legal heir of the dead fishermen within 15 days. The second and final phase compensation of Rs 10 lakh would be deposited in the joint account of the legal heir and the additional director of fisheries in 15 days from them. It would be fully handed over to the families in six months. Forty-eight of the missing fishermen include nine from other states such as Assam. “We have names of some of them while a few of them are unknown persons. Their families (residing in other states) who come to know that their kin who went fishing did not return can approach the Kanyakumari district administration any time, even after a few months,” the collector said. Such cases would be directly inquired into by the relief commissioner in coordination with the respective state governments and help them get the relief without delay, he said.