AURANGABAD: In a rare use of its inherent powers, the   bench of the   has quashed and set aside criminal proceedings relating to an attempted murder case against two accused. This follows a patch-up between the accused and the three victims, all of whom are related to each other.

 The HC imposed a cost of Rs 5,000 each on the two accused and the three victims, including the complainant, for misusing the entire machinery (police and judiciary) and directed them to participate in peace programmes conducted by the   in Aurangabad for two years.
 
 In its March 7 order, the HC bench of Justice Prasanna B Varale and Justice Vibha Kankanwadi relied on a 2012 judgment by the Supreme Court which dealt with the inherent powers of the high court in quashing criminal proceedings against an offender who has settled his dispute with the victim but the crime in which he is allegedly involved in not compoundable.
 
 Among other things, the SC had held that there can be no straitjacket formula regulating the exercise of inherent power by the HC and the same would entirely depend on the facts and circumstances of each case.
 
 The apex court had also ruled, “Where HC quashes a criminal proceeding having regard to the fact that dispute between the offender and victim has been settled although offences are not compoundable, it does so as in its opinion, continuation of criminal proceedings will be an exercise in futility and justice in the case demands that the dispute between the parties is put to an end and peace is restored; securing the ends of justice being the ultimate guiding factor.”
 
 Justice Varale and   referred to the SC ruling in detail and observed that in the instant case, “when the parties have compromised the matter and now in the affidavit the informant (complainant) and injured are coming with a case that somebody else in fact had committed the offence, definitely the possibility of their turning hostile at the time of evidence cannot be ruled out.”
 
 “When they want to keep harmony in the family, it is a welcome step and, therefore, we feel it necessary to exercise our inherent power under section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure,” the bench said.
 
 The bench, however, took a view that some cost and conditions ought to be imposed on the complainant in the criminal case for misusing the entire machinery and, later on, having compromised the matter with the accused when the latter approached him.
 
 As part of this cost and condition, the bench directed the two accused and the three victims, including the complainant, to deposit Rs 5,000 each with the HC legal services sub-committee in Aurangabad within six weeks from the date of the order. Besides, the HC directed all of them to furnish an undertaking that they will maintain good relations with each other and participate in the police peace programmes.
 
 The police station has been asked to take note of these directions and call the accused and victims for the peace programmes. The police will also issue certificates of participation to the two accused, the HC ordered.
 
 (The Case) 
 
 On the night of August 6, 2016, 23-year-old Shaikh Aref was going home when he was intercepted by accused Syed Baba Gulab, who demanded money from him. A scuffle ensued when Aref refused to pay Gulab. Later, when Aref approached the Jawaharnagar police, the latter referred him to a hospital for a medical checkup as he had suffered injuries. On learning about Aref having approached the police, Gulab and his friend   again intercepted him when he was on his way to the hospital and stabbed him with a knife, causing grievous injuries. Shaikh Afsar and Shaikh Sharif, who tried to rescue Aref, were also injured in the attack. The Jawaharnagar police later arrested the duo and chargesheeted them for attempted murder, criminal intimidation and common intention.
 
 
