NEW DELHI: Like the metro, Delhi Transport Corporation’s new buses will announce the next stop and flash it on   displays to help commuters. 

 Although there won’t be any airconditioner, 1,000 such buses will have comfortable seats, in-built   and vehicle tracking systems, speed governors and pink-coloured seats for women. 
 
 
  
 
 The standard-size buses will have several state-of-the-art technical features compared to DTC’s existing fleet.   at the front and the rear of the buses will announce the destination and the route number for the benefit of passengers waiting at the bus stops. Their GPS-compatible system will be able to announce pre-recorded names of the approaching bus stop in auto mode.
 
 In order to mark women’s seats distinctly, 25% of the total seats, excluding the driver’s, will be painted in pink. Four seats will also be kept aside for senior citizens and four priority seats for differently abled commuters. 
 
 One seat behind the driver will be especially reserved for blind people.
 
 To ensure that the buses don’t speed, there will be inbuilt speed governors. Their maximum speed will be 40 kmph and an engine software, inserted at the manufacturing stage itself, will control it.
 
 Each bus will have an in-built GPS device through which the   control room can its location automatically. There will also be emergency or panic buttons that will allow passengers alert the control room. Every bus will have three IP-based CCTV cameras that will let the DTC control room access the feeds. These will also be visible on display systems in the buses.
 
 The tender has been floated and these buses will start rolling out from this year itself. “The successful bidder will have to deliver a prototype within three months of its selection. Once the prototype is approved, 40 buses will have to be delivered within four months,” a DTC official said. The next batch of 120 buses will arrive in five to 12 months and in the next 12 months, all 1,000 buses will be with DTC, he added.
 
 
