PATNA: Students who appeared for Class XII from Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB), has to wait little longer for the results as the board has been taking every possible measures to ensure that there is no face loss as it happened after the declaration of intermediate results in 2017.

 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor told TOI on Thursday that the board has not declared any official date for the results, but it will be announced a little earlier than last year. “An official notice will be issued a day before the declaration of the results. The invigilators and the officials are compiling the results and making cross-checks for any kind of errs in putting the marks. All I can say that the results will be announced in May and earlier than last year, while the results of matriculation will be in June,” he said.
 
 Last year, the intermediate results were announced on May 30 and the matriculation results were in June 22, 2017.
 
 This year, around 17.7 lakh candidates appeared for Class X exam which was held between February 21 and 28 whereas 12.08 lakh appeared for Class XII exam conducted from February 6 and 16 across the state. Practical examinations were held from January, 2018.
 
 Education minister Krishnanandan Prasad Verma said that the BSEB has been taking care of everything and has taken several measures not to repeat the past mistakes. “This is one of the reason that the results were being delayed. But we are hopeful that there won’t be any ambiguity in results once it would be announced,” he said.
 
 The official at the board said that the BSEB would announce the results after the physical verification, IQ test and writing test of the top ten rank holders of intermediate. Last year, the board had conducted physical verification of toppers, only few days ahead of the announcement of the Class X results. The board has taken this precautionary measure after an overage disgraced arts topper Ganesh Kumar alias Ganesh Ram was caught for forging his documents to appear in intermediate exam.
 
