NEW DELHI: One can call it a Black Friday.

 
 Three Indian singles challengers -  , Sai Praneeth and   - fell by the wayside at the quarterfinal stage itself in the Yonex-Sunrise   on Friday evening.
 
 World No. 3   stood tall in the midst of disruptions as her ‘dream final’ remained alive.
 
 Beiwen Zhang from Las Vegas dashed all patriotic expectations with her no-nonsense counter-punching game to put it across Saina 21-10, 21-13 in flat 32 minutes.
 
 Zhang entangled Saina in long rallies and forced her to make mistakes. Saina never could muster a rescue operation. Another favourite, world No. 5 Carolina Marin too bit the dust. Her intermittent screams filled up the Siri Fort hall, sending across a message that everything wasn’t right with her game.
 
 As unheralded Cheung Ngan Yi kept clocking one point after another, the Spaniard’s voice got shriller during the quarterfinal.
 
 Not one to be overawed by the noise or the weight of ranking, the 24-year old from Hong Kong kept making small dents in Marin’s confidence, finding winners with neat placements and flicks. The contest took 48 minutes to turn on its head and the Olympic champion from Spain, a pre-tournament favourite, lost 21-12, 21-19.
 
 Fretting and fuming at the press conference, Marin accused the umpire of being “irritating” and “playing the protagonist”. Unfortunately, she sounded more like a bad carpenter.
 
 Earlier, Sindhu sent a chill down the spine of the partisan crowd by dropping a game before retrieving the match in time and getting past Corrales Beatriz of Spain 21-12, 19-21, 21-11. Ratchanok Intanon, a winner in 2016 and a former world champion, awaits the Rio Olympic silver-medallist in the semifinals.
 
 Even a depleted men’s field, left threadbare by the late withdrawal of world No. 1 Viktor Axelsen and the absence of seven from the top ten, could not be exploited by the Indian challengers.
 
 The quarterfinals brought into focus the weaknesses once again as Parupalli Kashyap and Sai Praneeth exited through the turnstiles.
 
 The mixed doubles pair of   and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy lost 17-21, 21-23 to the Chinese duo Du Yue and Li Yinhui.
 
 The mixed doubles pair of Reddy N Sikki and Pranav Jerry Chopra defeated Han Chengkai and Cao Tong Wei 21-8, 21-13.
 
 
