PATNA: The   government on Thursday said more than 1.21 lakh people have been arrested in the state for violation of   ban laws since the state was declared ‘dry’ on April 5, 2016.

 Replying to a question of BJP MLC Dillip Kumar Jaiswal,  , excise and registration minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav told the legislative council that altogether 6,51,687 raids were conducted and 1,21,586 people arrested in connection with liquor-related offences from April 2016 to March 6 this year. The FIRs lodged in this connection number 1,01,485 so far.
 
 Yadav said 16,39,882.6 litre of India-made foreign liquor, 8,22,959.5 litre of country liquor, 11,939.7 litre of beer, 15,316.5 litre of spiced liquor and 37,911.2 litre of toddy had been seized in the state since the prohibition was enforced.
 
 CPI MLC Kedar Nath Pandey raised the issue of monkey menace in Patna City and Danapur areas. Many women and children have been injured by monkeys, he said and added the government should do something to end this menace. He also raised the issue of yellow city buses violating safety norms on the roads.
 
 Replying to JD (U) MLC Sanjeev Kumar Singh’s question regarding delay in the execution of the projects recommended by legislators, planning and development minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the government was in the process of making details of all the projects available online. In case of delay, the official or the department concerned will be accountable.
 
 To BJP MLC Nawal Kishore Yadav’s question on the number of police personnel deployed as security guards of IAS and IPS officers, minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said 1,195 police personnel were deployed with IAS and IPS officers.
 
 Earlier, RJD members created uproar in the House for the second consecutive day, demanding removal of chief secretary  , who has been summoned by a CBI court in Ranchi in connection with a fodder scam case.
 
 The RJD members trooped into the well and raised anti-government slogans. However, they returned to their seats after deputy chairman Haroon Rashid pleaded to them to let the proceedings continue.
 
 
