Controversial reality series  , which started on October 1, 2017, will air its finale episode on January 14, 2018 at 9 PM. The show is hosted by Bollywood superstar Salman Khan.

 The four finalists of the show this time around are  ,  ,   and Puneesh Sharma. They will compete for the trophy and the prize money tonight. While Vikas Gupta and   are out of the race, it leaves just Hina and Shilpa in the battle. It's definitely going to be a cut-throat competition.
 Shilpa and Hina's fans are leaving no stone unturned in rooting for their favourite star.
 
 
 
 
 
 The four finalists along with their former housemates kick-started this journey around 3 months ago in September.
 Out of the 18 contestants, one by one, the housemates were eliminated leaving these four at the top four position.
 While Hina was known for her fierceness, Shilpa was known for her warmth. While Vikas was known as the mastermind, Puneesh was said to be out-front and blunt in expressing his opinions. Though after a several ups ad downs, here are the top four who will be battling for the BB trophy. Only time and votes shall decide the fate tonight. While on one hand fans are getting anxious to know more about the winner, the Bigg Boss team is leaving no stone unturned in making the grand finale really grand.
 
 
 The other contestants expected to perform are Arshi Khan, Dhinchak Pooja, Sapna Chaudhary, Benafsha Soonawalla, Lucinda Nicholas and others. Bandagi will be seen in a sensuous performance with Puneesh while Hina, Luv and Priyank will be seen setting the stage on fire with their fiery performance.
 
 
 
  
  
 Besides the finalists, Bigg Boss 11 saw Hiten Tejwani, Priyank Sharma and Benafsha Soonawalla as celebrity participants. 
 
 The commoners were Shivani Durga, Jyoti Kumari, Sapna Chaudhary, Akash Dadlani, Lucinda Nicholas, Mehajabi Siddiqui, Luv Tyagi, Sabyasachi Sathpathy, Bandgi Kalra, Arshi Khan and Zubair Khan.
 
  
  
  The finale will see several performances and all the contestants of the season will add glamour to the show with their presence and dancing talent. 
 
 Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar will announce the winner of this season. 
 
  
  
 The format of Bigg Boss requires participants to be locked inside the house for three months. They are completely cut-off from the world. Each week, housemates nominate the contestant they feel should be evicted from the house. Whoever is nominated the most, then depends on public vote. 
 
 The house has its own rules and is ruled by a mysterious voice which the contestants refer to as Bigg Boss. 
 
  
  
  
 
