CHENNAI: Getting petroleum prices under the purview of GST and opting for an administered price mechanism (APM) for fixing bus fares are two major solutions that the opposition   has prescribed to cure the woes of the ailing state-owned   in  . 

 The suggestions form part of a report, prepared by an internal committee of the DMK and headed by former Union minister T R  , which was presented to chief minister   by DMK working president M K   here on Tuesday. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and a few senior ministers were also present.
 
 "We have presented the report to the chief minister, but he has not given any promise on implemeting the recommentations. We have also given a copy of the report to the ministers who were present," Stalin told reporters, after the meeting.
 
 The report wants the government to bear the fuel price burden of the transport corporations. The state government must agree to include fuel under the GST so that the tax rate will be less than customs duty and VAT. "If fuel comes under the GST, the burden will be less and the government must roll back the recent hike in bus fares," says the report.
 
 The report also suggested that an APM system to fix fares for buses, operated by the eight State Transport Corporations ( ), be adopted. "The government should reimburse all the expenses of the STCs and 12% return by forming a Tamil Nadu State Corporations Central Pool Account (TNSCCPA). This is similar to the Oil Coordination Committee that determines oil prices," said the report. The Committee report proposed that to manage the TNSCCPA, the government should form a Tamil Nadu State Corporations Co-ordination Authority (TNSCCA).
 
 One other key recommendation is for the government to take over the losses of the transport department and allocate money to it in the budget, as in the case of other departments. The government should transfer money to the PF and pension accounts of employees, instead of using them for other purposes. 
 
 The report further suggested that the government can earn additional revenues by permitting transport of goods on buses. In addition, the government can also earn more by renting out available vacant space available with the department.
 
 Some of the other recommendations include getting STCs to build bus bodies, fix STC bus timings in such a way to maximise revenues, time-bound maintenance of buses, compulsory insurance with government paying the premium, conduct of energy audit and introduction of tatkal scheme for seat reservations.
 
 
