Nagpur: At a time when illicit felling of trees and extracting forest produce is a regular practice for villagers living around the forests, in obscure Malijunga, 125km from near Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary, it is considered a sin. With 150 houses and a population of 977, over 250-year-old Malijunga got its name from a lake spread in 98 hectares. This may be perhaps the first sacred grove in Vidarbha where no tree felling takes place in the forests or illegal fishing in the lake. Elderly people from the village and Malabai, Jungadada Devasthan Seva Samiti members recall how the lake was built by then malgujar Deuji Patil Kapgate for irrigation purposes. However, as water used to run down the bund, sacrifice (bali) of a brother-sister duo Mala and Junga, who belonged to a vagabond pastoral community, was offered on the two ends of the bund stand now. However, Dr Ravindra Kapgate (55), a district epidemic officer in Sakoli and fifth generation of the Kapgates, has a slight different view and says Mala and Junga had died at the spot and were buried there. Villagers later built small temples by installing their idols. Deuji was the great-grandfather of Dr Kapgate, who recalled his forefathers’ plan to connect their huge farmlands at Shendurwafa and Kini, 30km away, with water from Malijunga lake, but it never materialized.  “Though the lake is in possession of the irrigation department, no water tariff is charged from Kapgates or other locals. We pay a nominal charge of Rs200 to the village water committee for single crop. The money collected this way is spent on the village development,” says Mahendra Raut, member of the local Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC). Dr Kapgate says illicit tree felling, drinking in the forest, poaching, merrymaking, fishing in the lake are considered as sins. “There is a strong belief that anyone indulging in these acts will be cursed by the Mala-Junga duo,” he adds. Retired DFO from NNTR, Ashok Khune, too admits that in Malijunga forest trees are not felled. Such forest stretches are dubbed as Devrais (sacred groves), which usually have a significant religious connotation for protecting community. Vilas Nakade, president of the temple committee, said earlier locals had installed two idols of horses at the two ends of the bund but in the last 3-4 years, small temples of Malabai and Jungadada have come up at the spots where their ‘bali’ was offered. “This is what our ancestors have been telling us,” he adds. A couple of years ago, an idol of Lord Shiva was also installed on a hillock. Most of the 600 hectare area is a reserve forest and falls under Sadak Arjuni range of Gondia forest division.  To commemorate the sacrifice of the brother-sister duo, a two-day festival is organized on Makar Sankranti on January 14-15 at Malijunga every year. A host of events including palkhi of Malabai-Jungadada, bhajans, fair, dramas and lavnis by groups from Wadsa take place during the festival. Over 10,000 locals from nearby 17 villages attend the festival amid great fervour. The fest concludes by offering ‘mahaprasad’ to all devotees. Bowing to the strong devotion of the people, even forest officials support the event backdoor. There is also political support to the fest and on Monday it was attended by social welfare minister Rajkumar Badole. “For us, both Mala-Junga are deities. Many keep vows and have been visiting here for years together, but it is only during the last three years the event has been streamlined and organized on a grand scale for which money comes from donations,” says Gulab Tondfode, joint secretary of the temple committee. Among the visitors included traders, government servants, farmers and students from nearby villages. The new generation is supportive of the event. BSc-II student Alok Kapgate says, “The event not only brings peace of mind but also employment.” “There is demand for development on the hillock but I don’t think permissions can be granted. The area is in the buffer zone of NNTR and is a good wildlife habitat, Nagzira being close,” says Sadak Arjuni RFO GS Rathod. Raut says the BMC is spearheading wildlife, forest and environment protection message through the festival. “All the plastic is removed by volunteers from the forest area the next day. We also plan to declare the area as no plastic zone from next year,” he says. “For me, it is the historic tale of sacrifice of the brother-sister duo to save the lake and protect the environment,” Raut adds.