CHENNAI: With   yet to reach 40% of Class XI students in government schools across the state, students sat idle throughout their classes on the first day of the academic year.

 
 While schools in the city’s suburbs and Madurai received only language textbooks, those in Coimbatore, Erode and other districts received none, said a senior school education department official.
 
 Some headmasters downloaded soft copies of the new textbooks from the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) website and distributed printouts of the first unit so that teachers can start the classes, the official added. 
 
 On the other hand, an official from the   and  , agency responsible for printing and distribution of free textbooks, said, “Some of the books were printed in Hyderabad and are on their way to Tamil Nadu. We are trying our best to finish the distribution process in the next three to four days.”
 
 The government was keen on reopening the schools on Friday despite demand to postpone it by a week due to summer. School education minister KA Sengottaiyan said they can’t afford to miss out on seven working days since the new textbooks and syllabus demand additional effort and time.
 
 S Arumainathan, president of the   said though the minister’s intentions were right, he was not considering the practical difficulties in implementing the reforms.
 
 “There is no harm in reopening the schools on Monday along with private matriculation schools and they could’ve completed the distribution process in the meanwhile,” he added.
 
 Besides the free copies for government schools, distribution of for-sale copies has also taken a hit. 
 
 The corporation has, however, to distribute free books to other elementary, middle, high and high school students as per schedule.
 
 Not all government school students received the four sets of uniform material. “We have received only one set of uniform and it would’ve been better if we were given some more time to stitch them,” said a government school student from  , requesting anonymity. Instructions were given to all the students to wear them from day one. 
 
 Higher secondary girls students said the new dresses with overcoats were more comfortable compared to the old dresses.
 
 
