LUCKNOW : National president of  , Akhilesh   slammed the   (BJP), branding it as elitist and casteist. " Woh (BJP) hume pichda kahte hain... garib, kamzor... aur ab chor, saanp, chhachhunder... aur Allahabad mein jaane kitna bura kah diya. Yeh bhasha hai parishkrat logo ki?"   said (The   calls us backward, poor and weak. Now they have stooped further to call us thieves and animals. In Allahabad, one of the ministers, in presence of the chief minister, used the most foul language against  . Is this the language of the elite?). 

 In an exclusive interview with TOI on Wednesday after returning from his rally in Gorakhpur on Wednesday evening, Akhilesh Yadav was reacting to chief minister Yogi Adityanath's recent attack on the SP-BSP alliance. "The BJP's casteist and elitist mindset is not changing, they are refusing to accept the progress made by the poor and backwards," he said.
 
 The SP chief hit back at the CM for maintaining that he was a Hindu and proud in not celebrating Eid, saying that this was a blatant violation of the Constitution and the oath of office which makes it mandatory that anyone on the Constitutional post would be above caste, creed and religion. "But a chief minister was showing his Hindu badge publicly and seeking votes in the name of religion and denigrating the other religion. Is this the behaviour of the elites of the society," he questioned.
 
 "In their eyes we are backwards, weak and poor, but for us nation is first, not religion or caste. I am an Indian first, anything else is secondary. I am a proud Indian. The language and the intentions of the chief minister are a threat to communal harmony and peace...," he said.
 
 On the SP-BSP alliance, the former CM reiterated that in the numbers game (caste equations) the BJP has already lost and this election would be a historic game-changer in halting the march of communal forces. He said that he was confident that the pact would continue in future also and if required he would make any sacrifice for the unity of the Opposition. BJP government was completing one year in the state, he said, "and I would challenge them to show even a single accomplishment." He said he had been in Gorakhpur during the day and realised that no progress had been made either for reopening the fertilizer factory, or for establishing AIIMS.
 
 Not only this, no compensation was given to the kin of the children who died in the BRD Medical College for want of oxygen, he claimed. "Moreover, by stopping pension to the poor women, the BJP government has snatched the monetary assistance and livelihood of the poor," he added.
 
 "We had given the country's longest Agra-Lucknow Expressway in 22 months. But, even after completion of 12 months, BJP government has not been able to lay a single brick for the Poorvanchal Expressway. Rather, the government is forcibly acquiring the farmers' land without giving any compensation and if they are protesting they are being pushed into jail," he said.
 
 "The BJP falsely campaigned against the recruitments done during our regime, while they should realise why lakhs of youth are on Delhi streets for the SSC exams scandal. Why the shiksha mitras are committing suicide during the present regime while our government had given them jobs," asked Akhilesh.
 
 
