KOLKATA:   Railway officials have expressed doubts over the state’s proposal for a new alignment for the Baranagar-Barrackpore line, arguing that taking the mass transit system along the sparsely populated areas along Kalyani Expressway would defeat its very purpose as it would skirt the densely populated localities along Barrackpore Trunk Road, where residents needed a faster mobility solution.

 “People who live in localities along BT Road desperately need a faster transport system, which Metro could have provided for. But the state wants the route to be aligned along Kalyani Expressway, which does not quite have as many commuters in the catchment area to justify such a huge investment,” a Metro rail official said after a recent meeting at Paribahan Bhavan in which the   government formally handed over the feasibility report of the new corridor to Metro Railway and project executing agency Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd (RVNL).
 
  
  
 Around Rs 2,070 crore was sanctioned for the   in 2009. But till date, less than Rs 40 crore has been spent on the stillborn project.   had put the spanner when the tendering process was almost complete in 2012, expressing fears about potential damage to arterial water supply lines to the city. Six water pipelines of 42-inch to 72-inch run below BT Road, connecting Palta Waterworks with Tala Reservoir.
 
 After being held up for five years, the state transport department appointed RITES to undertake an alternative route survey after a prod from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office that advised the state to take a long hard look at the project before deciding to abandon it. The Kalyani Expressway proposal had emerged thereafter.
 
 RNVL, meanwhile, engaged a French firm to evaluate the possibility of building the Metro viaduct without damaging the water pipelines. The proposal that had emerged was shot down by the state, which wants the Metro line to be constructed along Kalyani Expressway. Among the arguments it has cited include the possibility of a second airport in the vicinity of Kalyani, and the close proximity of the alignment to BT Road that runs parallel, at a distance of 2.5-4 km. Both BT Road and Kalyani Expressway run parallel at about 2.5km to 4 km apart. “The suburban railway runs close to B T Road but there is hardly any mass-transit system closer to Kalyani Expressway. We will provide steady and frequent feeder routes to connect the Metro stations with different points along BT Road,” said a transport department official.
 
 The RITES feasibility study has proposed the alignment from Noapara to   where Kalyani Expressway begins. It will then run 15km north and turn left along   to reach Barrackpore town. The new alignment would be lengthier by 5km, compared to its original alignment of 12.5km along BT Road. Northward extension of Metro from Dum Dum up to Baranagar (4.47km) was sanctioned in 2010-11at a cost of Rs 227.53 crore. The work from Dum Dum to Noapara (2.09km) was commissioned in 2013. Further northward extension from Baranagar to Barrackpore (12.5km) and westward extension from Baranagar to Dakshineshwar (2km) at a cost of Rs 2,069.6 crore was sanctioned in the 2010-11 Budget. The extension of Metro up to Dakshineswar is likely to be completed by 2019.
 
 
