KOLKATA: A day after a 60-year-old woman was mowed down by a bus on VIP Road at  , commuters were forced to continue to run across the busy thoroughfare, risking their lives. The underpass, meant to ensure that pedestrians did not have to manoeuvre their way past speeding vehicles, has been built in the middle of the road. As a result, after coming out of the underpass, people have to walk across the bus bay to reach the stop even as buses and autos speed past.

 “VIP Road was being broadened when the underpass came up. The bus bay was built after they finished with the underpass,” said a resident. 
 
  
  
 
 The intent was right but the execution of the plan was clearly not. “The planners wanted pedestrians to take the underpass and so, blocked the intersections on the boulevard railings to prevent any crossover. That was a welcome move,” said  , a resident of Bangur. “But trouble started when the existing bus stop was pushed beyond the bus bay.” Those who have to board an Ultadanga-bound bus now has to cross half the VIP Road through the underpass and come out on an elevated stretch; after that, they have to walk across the 10-feet-wide bus bay to get to the stop. “That defeats the entire purpose of road safety with no traffic officer manning this stretch. The woman, who was killed on Monday, was trying to cross the road in a similar way when the bus knocked her down.” The bus bay is also used by autos. 
 
 The difficulty posed at the stretch was apparent as  , a 66-year-old woman, tried her best to make her way from the bus stop to the underpass. A resident of Lucknow, she is visiting a relative at Bangur. “The pavement is more than a foot high and is difficult for the elderly to get down from there,” she said. As she was being helped by her relative, Namrata, onto the road, a bus sped past her. “The planners should have kept these aspects in mind. Had they extended the underpass a little more, it would have served the purpose,” she said.
 
 Those not willing to take the underpass must walk 600m towards   to take the foot overbridge across. “But that defeats the purpose of constructing the underpass. It has lost its utility for the locals,” another daily commuter said.
 
 Aware of the problem, local councillor   said, “We are trying to find a way out.” Local MLA Sujit Bose said he had contacted the traffic officers to put up a signal at the spot. “A flyover from   to   is being planned. Once that comes up, a large volume of vehicles will take that, cutting down on the cars below. But we need to take short-term measures before that to ensure safety for commuters,” he said. 
 
 
