The members of the Indian men's and women's national hockey teams were in the capital recently, but not for any tournament or felicitation. The occasion was rather special – the launch of the new jerseys that the teams would be wearing in the upcoming tournaments, including the respective Hockey World Cups later this year. The event was jointly hosted by   and the team's new sponsor – the state of Odisha, with Chief Minister   present as the chief guest. The CM unveiled the jersey with the men’s team captain Manpreet Singh and the women's captain  . "Hockey in India, and hockey in Odisha, is much more than just a sport. Kids here learn to walk holding hockey sticks, which is why the land has produced so many hockey greats," the CM later said. The event also saw a musical performance by singer  , who crooned a medley of Oriya folk songs as well as some of her Bollywood songs. "We all talk about cricket and other sports, but this year, let us pledge to watch and support our national game more. This is my appeal to you as an artist," said Sona after concluding her performance.

  
  Indian captains Rani Rampal and Manpreet Singh at the event
 
  
  
 
  
  Sona Mohapatra performed at the event
 
  
  (L-R) Dilip Tirkey, Dhanraj Pillay and  
 
 Odisha will be hosting the Men's Hockey World Cup in December while the Women's edition will be played six months earlier in London. Talking about playing for the crown in front of home fans, Manpreet said, "It's always great to play in Odisha. We have played some big tournaments there in the recent years and the crowd support is always great. We are looking forward to doing our best there in the World Cup this year." Also present at the event were hockey legends Dhanraj Pillay, Dilip Tirkey, and Viren Rasquinha. "It's good to have some glamour associated with the sport too in form of these events. In the end, the results will speak for the team, but never hurts to market the game well," said Viren, a former India captain.
 
  
  Gaurav Kapur
 
  
  Narinder Dhruv Batra, President, International Hockey Federation (L) and Elena Norman, CEO, Hockey India 
 
  
  
 
