NEW DELHI/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: The first full day of “Padmaavat” screenings passed off without incident in Delhi-NCR on Thursday, even as the Gurgaon police took 23 people into custody for Wednesday’s stone-pelting and arson during which school buses were targeted in Bhondsi. They were charged with rioting and attempt to murder.

 Gurgaon police also took into ‘preventive detention’  , till recently BJP’s media coordinator in Haryana and now a general secretary of  .
 
 Police sources said Amu was making statements “detrimental” to law and order. On Thursday morning, Amu had police on their toes when he announced he would visit theatres with flowers to protest against people watching the film. 
 
 UP Karni Sena chief Thakur Karan Singh was also arrested by the Kasna police in Greater Noida for leading the protest against the film, and subsequent vandalism in the twin cities. The accused, a native of Falonda Bangar village in Rabupura, had been absconding for four days after masterminding the ruckus in Greater Noida, and leading the mob that vandalised DND toll plaza in Noida on Sunday.
 
 Amu, 51, has had a long political career but butted into the national discourse last November when he announced a reward of Rs 10 crore on the heads of ‘Padmaavat’ maker Sanjay Leela Bhansali and protagonist Deepika Padukone. He was suspended from BJP after that. A senior police officer said Amu had been given enough warnings, including by the chief minister himself who spoke to him on Wednesday night, but had ignored all of them.
 
 However, the Karni Sena wasn’t named in the FIR registered by Gurgaon police on Wednesday’s violence in Bhondsi. The case was based on a statement from Sukhbir, driver of the Haryana Roadways bus that the mob set on fire, who mentioned the mob was shouting “Karni Sena slogans”. 
 
 The 23 apprehended include eight minor boys, some of whom were seen hurling stone at the buses in school uniforms and PT dresses. They have been sent to an observation home. The others, all residents of Rajput-dominated Bhondsi, were sent to judicial custody and booked for rioting, attempt to murder and various other sections of the IPC. Nine more people were detained for roles in other incidents of violence in the city on Wednesday. Among them were Nitin Sharma and Umesh Kumar, members of a group calling itself ‘Royal Youth Swaraj’ who went to a mall on MG Road and threatened officials against screening the film.
 
 In Delhi, movie goers remained undeterred by threats of violence while a good many of them came to watch the movie out of sheer curiosity, following at the controversy surrounding it. At a few cinemas in central and north Delhi, cops had barricaded the entrance and were allowing people in after thorough frisking. Armed paramilitary personnel were deployed around some halls as well.
 
 Police had a better grip over security in Gurgaon as and was no fresh report of violence. Some 2,500 cops have been deployed across the city for Padmaavat screenings and VIP movement on Republic Day. Following Wednesday’s violence, 700 cops were called from Madhuban and Indian Reserve Battalion, Bhondsi.
 
 Padmaavat was released at 11 cinemas in Gurgaon on Thursday. At each location, 50 cops were posted. In addition, 300 cops were patrolling areas near cinemas in 70 PCR vans. Four reserve forces numbering 25 cops each are on standby. Thirteen new checkposts were also set up.
 
 Following UP Karni Sena chief Thakur Karan Singh’s arrest, Greater Noida 1 circle officer Amit Kishore Shrivastava said he had played an active role in mobilising people for protests in Noida and Greater Noida. “In Noida, the mob vandalised the DND toll plaza. Two cases were registered against Singh under various sections for rioting, assault and other acts,” he said. Police also registered a separate case against 200 people and arrested 16 accused involved in vandalism.
 
 In Greater Noida, Padmaavat was released amid tight security at multiplexes inside Omaxe NRI City Centre, Ansal Plaza, Grand Venice Mall etc.
 
