TRICHY: Usury and loans from micro finance companies have become a thing of past for several women self-help group (SHG) members because of the individual loans of around Rs 800 crore in the past six years from   corporation for women development in Trichy, according to the   district administration.

 “We stopped borrowing loans from the usurers for high interest and from the micro finance companies as the banks started lending loans to our groups through the women development corporation,” said an accountant of village-level committee,   from   village in Trichy, during the visit of Trichy collector   to the village on Thursday.
 
 The loans from the money lenders for higher interest rates was a dangerous risk for many. Yet, they continued to be at their mercy due to the lack of support from the government earlier. 
 
 However, the district administration said that since 2012-13 till the current financial year 2017-18, the corporation disbursed a total of Rs 790.2 crore.
 
 “The livelihood of women in the self-help groups improved in Trichy district because of the steady financial assistance from the banks through the women development corporation of the state,” said Trichy collector, K Rajamani in his statement on Thursday.
 
 Trichy district had a total of 9,481 groups in which 8,949 groups are in rural areas. The loans have been disbursed to a minimum of 4,500 groups every year. The number of groups touched 6,627 in 2015-16 when the banks disbursed Rs 149.42 crore to them.
 
 Considering the response from the women of below poverty line and poor middle class to join the groups to avail loans from the banks, Trichy district set a target of Rs 175 crore loans to be disbursed to them in 2017-18.
 
 The marketing of the products made by the SHGs were made easy through the college markets in four colleges in the district this year. 
 
 “The college markets helped them sell products worth Rs 2.65 lakh in the current year,” said collector in his statement.
 
 Aspiring women entrepreneurs in the urban area also got financial assistance through banks this year when a total of Rs 212.78 lakh of loans were given to 400 such entrepreneurs, said the collector.
 
 
