KOLKATA / KOCHI: The draft political resolution adopted by the CPM’s central committee (CC) at its meeting in Kolkata on Sunday ruled out “any form of electoral alliance or adjustments with the Congress”, a political line that numerous fellow travellers of the Left in general, and CPM in particular, decried as a major “blunder” that would only undo the party’s avowed aim of resisting the BJP-RSS upsurge.

 Two drafts of the political resolution were put to vote on Sunday and, in an almost unprecedented development, the CC shot down the one proposed by the party’s general secretary by a 55-33 margin. “As per the draft, there would be no understanding or electoral alliance with the Congress,” general secretary Sitaram   told reporters after the three-day meet ended. However, seemingly optimistic that the party   would see things differently, he said, “the line that the party will follow is the line that will be defined by the highest forum, the party congress, on the basis of which things will be worked out”.
 
 The current draft resolution, amended through three meetings of the politburo and the CC and to be released for discussion within the party before its congress in April, is seen as a victory for former general secretary   and the Kerala unit of the party known for its tough stand vis-a-vis the Congress.
 
 In Kerala, however, innumerable Left supporters saw the draft resolution as an abdication of the party’s larger responsibilities. “The political interests of the Kerala unit of CPM seems to have played a key role in voting out of the draft political resolution presented by Yechury. The stand taken by Yechury for a broad anti-communal platform was more transparent and practical in view of the challenges posed by BJP-led communal forces which are brazenly implementing a fascist agenda”, said political analyst Dr Azad.
 
 Well-known writer and social critic M N Karassery concurred. “CPM has committed yet another blunder by voting down the draft political resolution presented by Yechury. It shows that the party does not learn from its past mistakes and more importantly it is not sincere in its fight against communal forces,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Karassery said: “Today's decision shows that it is the Kerala unit of the party, led by Pinarayi Vijayan, who is calling the shots within the CPM at the national level. The Kerala unit is guided by its own narrow interests”.
 
 Several observers argued that the draft resolution merely reflected the CPM’s daftness. “It is a fact that in 2019 election unless all secular parties are united there is no way to defeat the  . The CPM should have utilised this opportunity to take a politically viable line. If not a direct tie up an understanding depending upon the situation should have been the policy of the CPM,” said  , well-known political scientist.
 
 Political observer and advocate A Jayasankar however felt all is not lost. “Yechury wants to carry forward the issue to the party congress... He will wait till counting of votes in Tripura is held on March 3. If BJP wins the election or manages to secure sizable votes, Yechury’s stand on alliance with Congress will be vindicated,” he said.
 
 N M Pearson, CPM fellow traveller and noted political analyst, appealed to the CPM to see things in perspective. “The CPM should strengthen itself ... it should help other local parties to strengthen a broader alliance at the national level, since CPM can’t go it alone at the national level,” he said.
 
 
