PANCHKULA: On Monday, the crime investigation agency ( ) joined the cops at Sector 20 police station to assist in the   case of the advocate Man Mohan’s wife to recover the body of the victim, which is missing since January 16. 

 The cops have made two teams to delve into all possible theories put forward by the accused in the case till now.
 
 The CIA team joined the investigation on Monday and questioned the accused advocate Man   and co-accused and his alleged lover Monika and her brother-in-law Sandeep Gill again. They have been alleged to have murdered   alias   by strangulating her in a moving car in Sector 23.
 
 The team of cops, which was supposed to go to   town of   (MP) on Monday, did not go there as they suspected that the advocate was making fool of them and was trying to waste their time so that the evidence (Neetu’s body) can be destroyed by the time they find the actual spot.
 
 It is pertinent to mention here that   police have, till now, failed to recover Neetu’s body. Sources in police said other angles in the case are being considered in the investigation process and a team might go to Madhya Pradesh to nab the two persons, whose names were taken by Man Mohan, who might have dumped the body of the victim.
 
 Man Mohan filed a missing report of his wife on January 16 with the cops and on January 20, police received an information that the body of the victim was found near the dumping ground in Sector 23. A police team along with forensic officials when headed to the said spot, they could only find some bloodstains and sandals of the victim at the site. After digging around 3 feet into the ground, the cops, however, found carcass of a dog.
 
 Police said the case was cracked when CDR (call detail records) reports of Man Mohan were scrutinised. Man Mohan spoke to Monika daily over his phone and his tower location was found to be at her house in   nearly every day. But after   went missing, he did not contact Monika and never visited her house in Manimajra. On behalf of suspicion, cops on the night of January 25 detained Monika, who confessed to have committed the crime with Man Mohan and her brother-in-law, police said.
 
 On the night of January 27, police added the name of Man Mohan in the FIR registered against Monika and Sandeep Gill under sections 302 (murder), 346 (wrongful confinement in secret), 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), after a day-long interrogation. On Sunday, a local court sent him in police remand till February 3. 
 
 
