NAGPUR: ‪Saturday evening‬ saw youngsters make their way to a local café in Ramdaspeth to be part of the open mic session ‘Kaafila’, organized by a city based online community WriterDesk which promotes the writing culture. Around fifteen stand-up comedians, poets, storytellers and singers took the opportunity to perform during the first offline event of the club.

 Founder of an event managing company, 24-year-old   aka ‘Manchala Azeem’ charmed the crowd with his exuberance as he recited some heart-melting ghazals from his compositions. With perfect choice of Urdu words and great engaging tactics, the engineer-turned-writer wove magic through his rhymes.
 
 Being a member of  , prime stand-up comedy group in the city,   was greeted with hoots and cheers as he narrated relatable incidents experienced at home in a hilarious manner.
 
 Mohit Varu’s poetry about the pain of a failed relationship set sentimental tone and won accolades for striking a chord with those present. 
 
 Some entertained with their guitars and some with vocal skills. Both sets of well-groomed and amateur artistes showcased their work.
 
 There was also ‘Human Library’ session where influential personalities coming from various walks of lives shared their experience to inspire the gathering and spoke about their success stories.
 
 A young and dynamic Vatsal Kothari started the online portal on Instagram more than two years ago, solely to provide a platform to the budding talent and encourage them to sharpen their artistic skills. At present, WriterDesk has about 12,000 active followers who upload their write-ups and creative content to receive feedback from a passionate and enthusiastic audience which helps them improvise and builds confidence.
 
 The community is spread over 9 different countries across the globe, including Pakistan, Canada, USA, UAE, KSA and Egypt. Taking pride in being a founder member, Kothari said, “My joy knows no bounds. It all started with a vision to offer a medium for collective growth of artists and our team has so far done a commendable job. I hope that we achieve greater milestones in the years to come to celebrate incredible ideas of artists.”
 
 
