MUMBAI:  , co-owner of Mojo’s Bistro who’s been on the run since Saturday, dodged the city police by a whisker in Hyderabad on Monday. He has again disappeared, with his new wife in tow.

 Hunting for Tuli, 29, charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the Kamala Mills blaze, Mumbai police sleuths reached   in Hyderabad, where Tuli’s grandparents stay. “Tuli fled soon after hearing that his name has been added in the FIR. He travelled with his wife in his jeep till Hyderabad. Our teams were on his tail. When we reached Jubilee Hills, we found his jeep parked there. But he had left the place just half an hour ago,” said a police officer.
 
 Soon the police — Hyderabad cops had been roped in — got a tip-off about Tuli’s presence at the city’s airport. The team rushed to the airport, but found that Tuli had dropped the idea of boarding a plane and disappeared from the premises. CCTV footage showed Tuli and his wife Pritina, whom he married in December 2017, reaching the airport on Mon day, but there was no indication they had taken a flight.
 
  
  
 “We are sure we will nab him. Our teams are working round the clock and will be successful in nabbing the suspects on the run,” added the officer. Besides Tuli, also on the run are the three partners of restobar 1Above, which was also burnt to cinders on December 29.
 
 The police have asked Tuli’s grandparents not to allow anyone to move his imported jeep from Jubilee Hills, a posh locality in west Hyderabad. The local cops have been requested to help.
 
 Before heading to Hyderabad, the city police had stationed cops at Tuli’s Mumbai home and, on their request, the Nagpur police had landed at his home there. The   are a well-known family in Nagpur with interests in hospitality, infrastructure, automobile finance and education. Though the city police have announced a reward of Rs 1lakh for information about the wanted accused, nobody has come forward yet.
 
 Tuli’s partner in Mojo’s,  , the son of former Pune police commissioner K K Pathak, was arrested on Saturday and is in custody. The N M   police added the names of Tuli and Pathak in the first Kamala Mills fire FIR and booked them for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after a fire brigade report said the blaze started from Mojo’s. The fire spread to 1Above, an adjacent restobar, claiming 14 lives.
 
