Forgot your driving licence at home? Be easy, if you are wearing a helmet. You can con the cops across the city who are looking only for helmetless riders. As the law-enforcement officials are hell-bent on punishing the helmetless riders, other equally grievous traffic violations often go unnoticed. 

 Welcoming the commitment to ensure all riders wear helmet, public of late have been criticising the police for ignoring other traffic violations, including rash driving and jumping the traffic signals.
 
 For the past two months, a majority of the two-wheeler riders have been wearing helmets while on road thanks to the strict initiative by the city traffic police in penalising the offenders. 
 
 However, the other traffic violations including, rash driving, jumping the traffic signals, goods vehicles plying with protruding rods, and drunken driving are given lesser importance by the city traffic police. 
 
 "Undoubtedly, a behavioural change is seen among two-wheeler riders on helmets with the police penalising them every single day for the past two months. 
 
 But police have to ask themselves whether helmetless riding is the only offence people do in  ?"  , a resident from   asked.
 
 MGR roundabout and   in the city have at least a dozen of police personnel including, home guards to stop the helmetless riders. If such a similar police force was tasked to man the traffic signals where drivers jump signals, it would result in catching at least 10-20 offenders every day. 
 
 "The   signal which is a stone’s throw away from Cantonment police station witnesses rampant jumping of traffic signal. The traffic policemen posted at the traffic signal would never bother such offences but they will intercept two-wheelers without helmets and penalise them," L  , a homemaker from Raja colony in the city said.
 
 Speeding city buses, mostly private buses, terrorising the commuters on any given day is a common sight. However, public rarely see a city bus being intercepted by traffic police and penalised for rash driving.
 
 Similarly, buses halting far away from the bus stops and causing bottleneck in   are never attended by the traffic police. When contacted, a senior police officer with traffic wing said, "We are focusing on helmetless riders and non-usage of seatbelts in the city for now. But that does not mean we are not booking rash driving and signal jumping cases. We will intensify and penalise the people committing other violations."
 
 
