NEW DELHI: In line with the bar’s lofty tradition, senior advocate   stopped practising in the   after the collegium headed by CJI Dipak Misra unanimously recommended her name to the Centre on January 10 for appointment as an SC judge.

 The collegium’s decision put the media spotlight on Malhotra as she was set to create history by being the first woman advocate to be appointed as a Supreme Court judge. 
 
 The earlier six women judges in the Supreme Court in its 68-year history were all judges of high courts. The Supreme Court has seven vacancies in its sanctioned strength of 31 judges, including the Chief Justice of India. 
 
 Along with Malhotra, the collegium had recommended appointment of Uttarakhand Chief Justice K M Joseph, who had struck down imposition of President’s rule in the state two years ago. But the recommendations are stuck with the Centre, which has neither conveyed its reservations to the collegium nor cleared the appointments.
 
 The patience to conform to traditions and stop a good practice while awaiting appointment as a Supreme Court judge has its limits, Malhotra realised, and decided to return to the court. “After following a grinding schedule for so many years that involved preparations for the line of argument in each case, it was difficult to sit idle for so long. That is why I decided to return to practice,” she told TOI.
 
 “It was getting a bit boring sitting at home without doing anything,” she said. Asked whether the delay forced her to resume practice, she tackled it diplomatically and said, “I am okay with it.”
 
 But she added, “If it was a conscious decision to stop practising after my name was recommended, it is also a conscious decision to return to practice.”
 
 Malhotra, 61, was the second woman lawyer to be designated as a senior advocate by the Supreme Court in August 2007, nearly 40 years after it designated Leila Seth as senior advocate in 1977. Seth went on to become the first woman high court chief justice.
 
 If the government accepts the recommendation and the President appoints Malhotra as a Supreme Court judge, she will be the seventh woman judge in the history of the SC and will have a term of nearly four years. She has practised in Delhi for the last 35 years, mostly in the Supreme Court.
 
 The earlier six women SC judges — Fathima Beevi (SC judge from 1989 to 1992), Sujata V Manohar (1994-1999), Ruma Pal (2000-2005),   (2010-2014), Ranjana P Desai (2011-2014) and sitting SC judge   — were all elevated from various HCs to the SC as judge.
 
 Justice Joseph, who had headed an apex court bench that quashed imposition of President’s rule in Uttarakhand after the   government led by Harish Rawat was sacked, was recommended by the collegium in May 2016 to be transferred as chief justice of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh high court.
 
 However, the recommendations was never given effect to by the Centre, which appears to have serious reservation in appointing him as Supreme Court judge.
 
