HYDERABAD: To douse the smoke arising from the casting couch controversy, the state government will appoint a committee to look into safety of female artistes in Telugu film industry and suggest suitable recommendations.

 The committee will be headed by Film Development Corporation (FDC) chairman Rammohan Rao. Once the recommendations are made, which are expected in 10 days, the government will issue the necessary orders. The committee will comprise representatives from the home department, SHE teams, Movie Artistes’ Association (MAA) and representatives of 24 crafts. Minister for cinematography T Srinivas   held a meeting with ilm industry representatives here on Saturday and suggested that a new five-member committee be constituted to speak to the media on Telugu cinema-related matters.
 
 
 MAA general secretary Naresh told the minister that strict action would be taken against anyone from the film industry if they approach the media first instead of lodging a complaint with police if they have a grievance. A separate cell will be constituted in FDC so that anyody from the film industry can lodge complaints on matters pertaining to wages or harassment. Females artistes can also approach SHE teams.
 
 The minister told industry representatives that wages for artistes or workers will have to be necessarily deposited in their bank accounts. The amount of wages will also have to be displayed on notice boards at the shooting location sites and also at the producers’ council. The minister urged the industry to do away with coordinators and appoint managers in their place. Srinivas Yadav also stressed that basic amenities must be provided to female artistes at shooting locations and minimum wages for workers.
 
 Yadav said the government would take strict action against those collecting higher parking fee and overcharging for eatables in canteens in theatres. MAA president  , directors’ association president N Shankar, actor-producer  , producer  , writer Parachuri Venkateshwar Rao, producer   and producer C Kalyan were present at the meeting.
 
