HYDERABAD: Amid protests over the Prof   committee’s recommendations on school fee, the Telangana government has issued a notification, announcing the  . Though schools were instructed to begin issuing applications from Wednesday, many flouted norms by neither issuing the   nor fee structure on their websites.

 Deputy chief minister and education minister Kadiyam Srihari had halted admission process in schools in November last awaiting the Prof Tirupathi Rao committee’s report on fee structure. The government’s order, spelling the admission schedule for schools, including those affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, IB and Cambridge, came as a surprise to many parents as it was announced amid objections raised over recommendations by the committee.
 
 The government had on December 29, in an order, announced the admission schedule and directed all schools to scrupulously follow rules while finalising admission as per the schedule. A random check of a few school websites, including minority schools, revealed that they had failed to consider government’s schedule.
 
 Failure of several schools to disclose fee structure on their websites, has left several parents anxious.
 
 Though the GO had ordered schools not to collect any capitation fee and subject the child or parents to any screening procedure, parents complain of schools neglecting the norms. “We were called for an interview with our son. While the fee structure was not shared on website, they unofficially shared it with us on a piece of paper. The school management also asked for ?75,000 capitation fee,” V Chandra, a parent, who had sought admission for his son in an upmarket school in Nacharam, told TOI.
 
 Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association (TRSMA) president Srinivas Reddy said unlike international schools, mid and small schools begin admission only in June and initiation of the admission process at such an early stage has not benefited them.
 
 
 
 Hyderabad: The   has reportedly kept the Prof Tirupathi Rao committee report on school fee in abeyance. After a meeting with principal secretary (education) Ranjeeva Acharya on Wednesday, Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) representatives told TOI that the official assured them that “action will be taken in due course of time and only after examining the report and related issues in detail”. “We raised our concerns with the principal secretary and informed her that the objective should be to check if schools are profiteering or not. Acharya said she will not comment anything on the recommendations until she examines entire report,” Ashish Naredi, an executive member of HSPA, said. Another HSPA delegation led by joint secretary   met IT minister K Taraka Rama Rao and submitted petition to him. TNN
 
 
