PUNE: 'The Circle', a 65-minute docu-film created out of  's love for yoga and film-making, won the Special Jury Mention Award at the Jaipur International Film festival earlier this week. 

 Almost three decades ago, Frisby, then an 18-year-old   University student, came to India for the first time, marking the beginning of her tryst with Iyengar yoga, which is headquartered in Pune.
 
 The film is based on how the pastor of Bandra's Mother Mary Church, Father Joe, uses Iyengar yoga and other techniques to run a de-addiction centre for street children of Dharavi. Associate director Shashank Sharma, who is based in Mumbai, said the award being won on the birth centenary year of BKS Iyengar makes the achievement even more significant. The crew is looking to screen the film in India and London, as a tribute to the man, he said.
 
 A student of comparative religion in Bristol, Frisby found her calling while working on a movie about Ganga in 1992. It was after watching a film on Pari network that she realized that films were a powerful story-telling medium. "By then I had started visiting India several times a year. My yoga teacher   introduced me to Father Joe, who arranged my trip to Dharavi. What I saw shocked me and I knew I had to make a film about it," said Frisby.
 
 Frisby, with limited resources, started out with just one camera person. "Tulu Patnaik, a friend helped me a lot. I had used up almost all my savings for this film and when we won, I was overwhelmed. But for me, it was more important to share this inspirational story with the world," said Frisby who is still involved with raising money for the project.
 
 Indigo Eye Productions - founded by Philippa Frisby, Shashank Sharma and Alok Mishra - has already began work on the next venture. "This is a socially relevant documentary based in Mumbai. The idea of the production house is to bring to the fore the stories of people who could live normal lives, yet choose to make a difference in the lives of others," said executive producer Alok Mishra.
 
 
