MUMBAI: Rafiq, a shoe salesman from  , is one of 4,000-odd   with the worrisome drugresistant form of the disease. But what makes the 26-year-old special is that he is among a handful of patients to be given not one, but two of the world’s newest  .

 While the government has been vigilant in disbursing these drugs—bedaquiline and delamanid—international NGO Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF; Doctors Without Borders) treats “the sickest of the sick” with this combination. Since 2016, it has given this combination to 69 patients, including Rafiq (name changed), in Mumbai. On Wednesday, the NGO felicitated seven patients treated with this novel combination as “heroes who will inspire others to go through the rigours of anti-TB treatment”.
 
  
 While these new drugs have been officially recommended for only six months, Rafiq took the combination for two years. “We have proved that fears of QT prolongation (irregular heart beat) associated with these new drugs are exaggerated. We carry out tests every three months, and our patients are well with no effect on their hearts,” said Dr Pramila Singh, who manages an MSF clinic in Govandi.
 
 Rafiq is back selling shoes, having gained 10kg to touch 40kg in two years. “I eat well and include eggs in my meals,” he said. Rafiq underwent treatment at various government and private centres for two years, but kept losing weight. The psychological effect of the drugs, too, was apparent as he screamed and cried. “I was a mess when a private doctor sent me to MSF which started me on the new combination within a few weeks. And here I am, two years later, craving to do something meaningful with my life,” he said.
 
 MSF started offering bedaquiline on compassionate grounds in 2014. A year later, it started offering delaminid. In 2016, it started offering a combination which works out to almost Rs 10 lakh per patient for a two-year period, said Dr Singh. Priya (name changed), a 27-year-old mother of a five-yearold son, is another patient on the combination for two years. “My son got pneumonia when he was five months old and only on breast feeds, leading Sion Hospital's doctors to suspect that I had TB,” she said after her felicitation. None of the combination of TB drugs, however, worked on her.
 
 “In the meantime, my inlaws threw us out and we stayed on the footpath,” Priya said. She was referred to MSF, which not only provided her with medicines, but even monthly ration and travel money from Badlapur to Govandi. Results of the MSF's bedaquiline-delamanid combination trial were published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases in February, stating that 74% of its patients “converted to negative” (to the TB bacteria's presence) within six months.
 
 “MSF’s intervention is just a drop in the ocean. These small but highly reassuring results suggest that these drugs are safe and effective for use in combination among drug-resistant   with high levels of resistance, especially when there are no other options left,” said the study's author and MSF India's medical coordinator Stobdan Kalon.
 
