CHENNAI: A 24-year-old   doctor allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself with a rope from a ceiling fan at his hostel room in the institute on Monday. 

 Dr  , 24, who hailed from  , was pursuing MD (radiology) and had joined PGI in January this year. Lakhvir Singh, station house officer (SHO), Sector 11, said the incident came to light when Parshad did not join his duty at the emergency in the morning. His colleague called him on his mobile phone but got no answer. He and Parsad's other colleagues went to his hostel and found his room locked from inside. When they did not get any response after knocking on the door several times, they broke the door with the help of security guards. Parsad was taken to PGI emergency, where he was declared brought dead. No suicide note was recovered from the room, police said. 
 
 The body was kept at the mortuary for post-mortem. The exact cause of death and timing would only be known after the autopsy report. His family members were informed at Tamil Nadu. The reason behind the suicide is not clear so far. Police officials said they were recording the statements of his colleagues. Police registered a case and initiated inquest proceedings.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police (central division) Ramgopal, and PGI director Dr Jagat Ram visited the PGI emergency.
 
 Chief minister   condoled the death of Prasad. “It is shocking to note that Prasad, son of Ramaswamy, a native of Rameswaram, has died in Chandigarh. The government will help bring the body to his native place,” said Palaniswami in a statement. He also announced ₹3 lakh from the Chief Minister Relief Fund to Prasad’s family.
 
 Prasad’s father Ramaswamy is a temple priest of Anjaneyar temple in Rameswaram. He has an elder sister. The shaken family has left for Chandigarh. As per the government’s orders, the Ramanathapuram district administration facilitated their journey. They left for Madurai by road, and took a flight from Madurai to Delhi via Bengaluru, official sources from district administration said. “The state government has arranged their travel. We have been told that state government officials will further assist them to reach Chandigarh once they reach Delhi,” said Ramanathpauram collector S Natarajan.
 
 Prasad comes from a humble background and the family resides at Eswari Amman Koil street in Rameswaram. After his schooling at Rameswaram and Rasipuram, the youth had secured an MBBS seat at the Adiparasakthi Medical College at Melmaruvathur.
 
  Similar cases 
 
  September 2016 |  , 31, a junior resident doctor of nuclear medicine at PGI, committed suicide at his Sector 16 house. He hailed from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh 
 
  April 2010 | Nagendra AV, 25, a junior resident doctor at PGI, committed suicide after jumping from his fourth floor room at Kairon Block. 
 
  September 2009 | Pardeep Sharma, 26, a junior resident doctor at PGI, committed suicide by hanging himself in his room at the Kairon block hostel. 
 
