 2017   visited the capital on Tuesday for her Beauty With a Purpose project on menstrual hygiene. As part of the Humanitarian World Tour, Manushi was accompanied by Miss World Chairperson  , Miss World 2016 Stephanie  , and six Miss World 2017   winners to create awareness among young girls about her project and to dispel the taboos around menstrual hygiene. 

  
  Miss World 2017 Manushi Chhillar was welcomed by a loud cheer by the students of NP Bengali Girls Senior Secondary School at the  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Manushi and other Continental winners began their day with a session with students from NP Bengali Girls Senior Secondary School at the NDMC Convention Centre. Briefing the students about her project, Manushi said, "I had started this project even before I was selected as the fbb Colors Femina Miss India. I told my parents that I wanted to work on menstrual hygiene because I believe a girl can achieve everything if she is healthy. When I took admission in a medical college, I found that apart from the lack of education, what stopped girls from menstrual management was a limited access to sanitary pads. When I became Miss India, I started my initiative from Haryana, my hometown. I got in touch with a local manufacturer who started preparing low cost sanitary pads. We then asked the women in villages to buy these pads at a low cost. When I went for the Miss World competition and presented my project to the team, they really liked it. And that’s why they have brought the winners from all the continents to work in India and other countries on this issue." 
 
  
  Miss World Chairperson Julia Morley
 
 
  
 
 
  Laxmi Chauhan, a student of class IX, told us, "This actually feels like a dream come true. She spoke about her project on menstrual hygiene, which is important for all of us. I am glad that we got this opportunity." Atiya Faizi, another student added, "We all are so happy that we got a chance to meet all of them. This is one of those days that we will always cherish."
 
  
  Julia Morley, chairperson,   and Jaideep Mandal, founder director of  
 
 
 
 
 
  After interacting with the young girls, Manushi, along with the Miss World team, interacted with the media.
 
 
 
 
  Manushi said that she had always believed in working for this mission. "I had always believed that I could contribute to this purpose. I did not know I'll be winning the title, but I always wanted to be a part of Beauty With a Purpose. I think that is the core of Miss World and that is what made me a part of it," she said. Miss World 2016 Stephanie Del Valle said, "The problems surrounding menstrual hygiene are not limited to India. They are prevalent everywhere around the world."
 
  
  (L-R)  , Miss World Caribbean 2017, Magline Jeruto, Miss World Africa 2017, Andrea Meza, Miss World Americas 2017, Stephanie Del Valle, Miss World 2016, Miss World 2017 Manushi Chhillar, Haeun Kim Sitlinger, Miss World Asia 2017, Annie Evans, Miss World Oceania 2017 and  , Miss World Europe 2017 
 
 
 
 
 
  When Manushi was asked if she faced any challenges while speaking to women in villages on the topic, she replied, "When I went to speak to these women, I went as one of them. And since I am a medical student, they listened to me. We conducted sessions with them, and gave them samples of sanitary pads. When they used those, they felt more comfortable and didn't want to go back to older methods."
 
 
  
  Manushi posing with the students and other representatives (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
 
