A man’s job? Says who…Times are changing and women are turning tables everywhere. On International Women’s Day, CT speaks to few Coimbatore women who have been breaking societal norms and thriving in industries where they do not have much of a presence. Their jobs may not be glamorous but these women are making a mark in the fields that is considered male-dominated by the society. Meet some of them:

 
 
 R   has a long association with death. As a child, she accompanied her father, who worked as an undertaker in the Chokkampudur graveyard. After he passed away, Vairamani took over the mantle. The 35-year-old has since then been digging graves, burning and burying corpses and making sure that abandoned bodies are given a fitting burial. “It’s more than 15 years now. I have been burning and burying corpses from childhood. I got married at a young age and had to support my family and hence, took up this occupation. I usually charge Rs 6,000 from families for cremation. I use the money to buy wood, cotton seeds and other items for cremation. I make Rs 500 for every body I cremate.”
 
 So, what’s her average day like? “As soon as I am informed about a death, I go to buy material for the cremation. By the time the families arrive with the dead person’s body, the pyre is kept ready. Once the body is placed on the funeral pyre, I stay at the graveyard since the body is burnt fully. My work is over only after the ashes are handed over the family.”
 
 But, Vairamani says that rising number of electric crematoriums is gradually affecting her work. “I now also work at the Chokkampudur crematorium as a watchwoman. My husband is involved in centring work here. On lean days, I go about working chopping wood.”
 
 The surroundings in which Vairamani works might paint a grim picture, but the young undertaker is a bundle of energy. She lives in a small house in Chokkampudur along with her husband and son. “My two daughters have been married off. I am a grandmother now. My son is studying in school. Though I don’t want them to pursue the same profession, I want everyone to understand the dignity of death.”
 
 
 
 
 When Chandrakala M moved from her hometown Ramanathapuram to Coimbatore after tying the knot with K Muthusamy in 1999, little she did know that she will end up as one of the most sought after watch mechanics in Ganapathy. Today, she deftly repairs one watch after another and has a huge range of customers who trust her work. “I use to watch my husband repairing watches and soon developed an interest in it. I would try working on them when my husband was not around. But, when he learnt that I was interested in repairing watches, he started teaching me. Within four months, I picked up the skill. I am probably the only woman watch mechanic in the region.”
 
 Chandrakala begins her work at 8 am in the morning and winds up by 8 pm. “My day starts at 5.30 am. After I drop off my kids at work, I come to the shop. I also have a shoe shop in the same locality. I shuttle between the two. It’s really tough checking on two shops in a day, but I enjoy every moment of it.”
 
 So, what does one need when to repair a watch? “You need to be relaxed and calm before beginning the work. Since you work with tiny spare parts that are hard to see with naked eye, it’s important that you stay focussed. I can repair a watch in a matter of few minutes. Customer service is significant in this profession. I respect my work and my customers are my priority.”
 
 
 
 If you are looking for an auto in the Ramanathapuram area, all you need to do is dial Karpagavalli. A mother-of-two, Karpagavalli has been behind the wheels for five years. The 47-year-old auto driver has worn many hats- be it a typist, receptionist, record keeper or supervisor- she has done it all. She manages to speak English as well, thanks to her earlier jobs. “I had always wanted to become a police officer. But, I am glad I at least got to wear a khakhi uniform as an auto driver,” she quips. “But, on a serious note, I always wanted to do something on my own. When I was working at private concerns, I was obligated to adhere to the rules and deadlines. But, now I am free bird. I can decide my working hours and take my off whenever I want. I am quite content with my job.”
 
 Karpagavalli’s savaris are mostly pre-bookings. “Sometimes I stop when people wave on the way. I also do long-distance trips. But, in such cases, I try to wind up by 9.30 pm.” What irks Karpagavalli most is the notion that women are bad drivers. “I don’t understand why they make such statements. A bad driver is bad, irrespective of the gender. I follow all traffic rules and drive safely.”
 
 Karpagavalli is quite proud of the fact that she is an auto driver. “Auto drivers provide directions to others when asked, help accident victims and are available every time a cab cancels in you.” She adds that with the surge of private cab services, regular auto services have taken a hit. “The government has fixed the rate at minimum Rs 25 for a kilometre and Rs 12 for every km after that. I am now dependent on my regular customers. It’s not easy maintaining an auto. I need to change the tyres every 25,000 km. When I do that, I cannot pay the due. The job has its own challenges, nevertheless, I love it. I learn a lot from my customers and I like ferrying them around. And, I own the auto.”
 
 
 
 
 Shanthi is always on government duty. This 35-year-old woman from Periyanaickampalayam has been ferrying government employees from one place to another for more than five years. “I began driving from 2002. I have tried my hand at vans and buses as well. I was a driving tutor and I had employed at government employment exchange in the interim. I joined the revenue department in 2013 and since then have been driving every day of my life.”
 
 Shanthi says that she needs to be available everytime the authorities want her to. “There is a lot of pressure in the job but I can’t let it get to my head. I have to be available everytime the authorities want to visit or inspect a place. Sometimes, I drive all night and day. I have hardly taken any leaves till date.”
 
 And, that’s not all. Shanthi also knows the basic repair work of automobiles. “As a driver, it’s important that you know the basic repair work. I can easily fix a puncture or repair small breakdowns. Only, when there is a major fault, I call a mechanic.”
 
 On the personal front, Shanthi has been taking care of her elder sister who is not in the best of health. “The trouble started after my mother passed away. I am also separated from my husband and hence, I am the breadwinner of the family.It’s my job that keeps me going.”
 
  
 
