By invitation

 Yes, the internet has changed our lives. But what is the one thing on which it has had the most profound impact? Motherhood, perhaps. 
 
 According to a US study in which mothers were asked to name the most essential media in their lives, 59% said the internet. TV, at 30%, came second. A survey involving 7,000 mothers, called ‘Truth about Moms’, found women in six countries, including India, said technology helps them become better mothers.
 
 Closer home, if you are a mother living in Gurgaon, chances are you will be a member of at least four WhatsApp groups from your child’s school and different classes, you would be a member of one or more mommy communities on   and you would have used   to check on the symptoms of H1NI or dengue or other infections. You would know which YouTube channel to put on when you want to finish your dinner in a restaurant if you are a mother of a toddler. It’s also likely that you would have asked for recommendations about a good doctor at least once in the last two years on one of these forums.
 
 GurgaonMoms, a Facebook community page, has close to 23,000 members with more than 1,700 posts per day. The range of the posts gives you the range of topics mothers are discussing — from quick hacks to solving problems one is grappling with, to validation like ‘am I doing alright?’
 
 Why is it that the internet has become the most important medium for millennial mothers? And how is it manifesting itself in different forms?
 
 The biggest reason is the big truth about motherhood, that ‘motherhood is doubthood’. There is a need to make choices and take decisions that need to be correct. The common state defined by having to navigate unchartered waters and the need to be the best mother that one can be.
 
 Even the most prepared moms find that pregnancy and motherhood bring a host of new questions. Women today need a support system in ways they never have before. They are suddenly reliant on other moms for advice, ideas, favours and empathy. Over time, they become part of a co-dependent ecosystem where, in the words of one mom, “moms are all on the same train”.
 
 We’ve moved into a world of community parenting where moms are part of many different communities. Once limited to those in the family or village, the matriarchal knowledge base has expanded to become limitless, thanks to the internet.
 
 One more thing that is propelling it is the overdose of information and choice that has made life complex. According to a study, 66% mothers in India agree that when it comes to making good parenting decisions, there is too much conflicting information out there. The old sources of authority and advice like mother/mother-in-law are proving to be inadequate to evaluate this new deluge of information and choice.
 
 And it has more impact than helping moms navigate the journey of motherhood. It has shifted the power of parenting towards the mother from the father, elders, schools, doctors, etc. She now wields the power of collective knowledge and experience of hundreds of other mothers. They have more answers on everything about the kids. 
 
 She also now wields more power in her equation with marketers and brands. Every advertising claim or new product launch is first validated through such communities or other mothers’ experiences. 
 
 It’s not that the internet only does the functional heavy lifting of providing information, advice and support to the mothers. Social media helps them express and share the joy of motherhood like never before as well as provide an escape hatch from motherly tasks.
 
 (Author is  , chief strategy officer,  )
 
 
