CHENNAI: The slum resettlement policy of Tamil Nadu government promotes ‘urban untouchability’ and forced   amounted to subjecting the oppressed classes to violence, according to retired Madras high court judge D Hariparanthaman.

 In his comments after releasing a   report — Forced evictions and Inadequate resettlement in Chennai — on Monday, Justice Hariparanthaman said only the poor were “targeted” by the state. “Commercial establishments, colleges and dwellings of high income groups are left untouched during eviction drives,” he said, adding, slum eviction was a human rights violation.
 
 For instance, in Semmenchery, the report noted there were not enough schools. “There is a requirement of two primary, one high and one higher secondary school. At present, there is only one high school in the settlement. The quality of education in the high school is poor because teachers consider being posted in Semmenchery as punishment,” said Devaneyan of the  , one of the NGOs that organised the public hearing.
 
 As many as 105 individuals affected due to slum eviction deposed before the public hearing’s jury committee on December 19, 2017. The hearing was organised by an NGO-combine including the Unorganised Workers Federation, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities and National Alliance of People’s Movement. The jury members included former bureaucrats M G Devasahayam and Christudas Gandhi besides academics V Vasanthi Devi, C Lakshmanan and Karen Coelho. V Saraswathi of People's Union for Civil Liberties and K Sudhir, a city based architect-builder were the other jurists.
 
 Gandhi, the report said, took cognisance of the availability of surplus land within city limits which could be utilised to build housing for the poor. “...adjoining the Madras high court premises, the Reserve Bank of India, the Secretariat complex, within the premises of homes of judges and ministers on  , the Theosophical society, the Raj Bhavan and the Madras Christian College” were some of the alternate sites proposed by Christudas Gandhi.
 
 Arguing against eviction of multiple settlements and relocating them to one alternative resettlement location like Kannagi Nagar, Hariparanthaman said it was time the government started to explore the prospect of creating mixed class settlements, along the lines of a samathuvapuram (TN’s equality village housing scheme). “A settlement where rich and middle income groups live in the same neighbourhood would help address concerns like non-provision of civic infrastructure and lack of employment opportunities,” he said.
 
 
