Gandhinagar: Bringing all speculations to an end about his reaction to portfolio allocations, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel joined office on Sunday. Later, he drove down to Mehsana where hundreds of supporters welcomed him by bursting crackers at his MLA office. Patidar groups had spontenously come out in his favour, offering their support to the senior Patidar leader.

 After addressing reporters who had gathered at his residence in Memnagar area, Patel drove straight to Gandhinagar to take charge. Regardless of it being a Sunday, his office staff was there to greet him at Swarnim Sankul. Former speaker Ramanlal Vora was also there to receive Patel, though no other BJP stalwart or minister could be seen at the secretariat. Patel officially took charge of his department at about 11.39am in Gandhinagar.
 
 Patel performed puja in his chamber and then completed the formality of taking charge of his departments. Speaking to reporters, he said, “After the swearing-in ceremony, I had begun working in the interest of the people. On Day 1, after the swearing-in I had held a review meeting with the secretaries over the purchase of groundnut at minimum support price. The first thing I did was to announce buying groundnut crop and ensure payment of arrears to the farmers.”
 
 Patel added, “Our ministers have already taken charge and the government will now work in the interest of the people of Gujarat from Monday. We will try and live upto the aspirations and expectations of the people.” Patel was sworn in on December 26. He said that the people of Gujarat had voted for development and had given their mandate to the BJP to stay in power for the next five years. Patel once again thanked the party high command for giving him a portfolio which suits the deputy chief minister.
 
 He said that he had devoted himself to the service of 6.50 crore people of Gujarat reciprocating the confidence people reposed in the BJP.
 
 ‘Nephew’ Hardik writes to DyCM
 
 Ahmedabad: In an open letter to DyCM Nitin Patel, PAAS leader Hardik Patel said if things continue as they are, “After 2019, you will remain just the tourism minister.” Hardik wrote he was a well-wisher ‘nephew’ of the DyCM. Asking the DyCM to “Fight against injustice and throw BJP leaders out of power,” Hardik reminded Nitin, “CM Vijay Rupani can’t take even a single step without you.” Even though the deputy CM had joined office on Sunday burying his discontent over portfolio allocations, Hardik didn’t let go of the issue and tried to add fuel to fire by saying in his letter that even though Nitin had not supported the Patidar quota agitation, Hardik and his followers will support him for his prestige.
 
 
