KOLKATA: The next time you drive towards an intersection in the city, you might not need to apply brakes at the last moment to avoid a stop-line violation. Kolkata Police has decided to use   — on the same lines as red-light timers are now in use across the city. 

 “The decision has been taken. The implementation will begin soon,” said DC (Traffic) Sumit Kumar. Police, however, will not switch to green timers directly. As of now, cops will start off with using flashing green lights to warn motorists that the signal is about to turn amber or red.
 
 Motorists in Kolkata are used to red countdown timers that show the time left before the light changes from red to green. The red timers help save fuel and reduce pollution. But the purpose of green timers are much more than that. “They will show motorists the exact time left before the signal turns red. This will stop vehicles from making stop-line violations. This will also help the drivers — and especially bikers — to slow down as they approach traffic signals,” said a  .
 
 Motorists have welcomed the move. Satyajit Mukherjee, a resident of Thakurpukur who commutes by his own car to his Dalhousie office, said: “People tend to speed up when approaching a junction, especially at the Police Training School-Race Course crossing. A timer can help drivers decide whether or not to pass through the green lights. If the timer shows I’ve got 4 seconds left before the lights turn red, I know I will not reach the junction in time, so I need to slow down.”
 
 Lalbazar sources said they have already introduced green timers for pedestrians at the Exide crossing, where boom barriers have been installed. This model will be replicated across the city for pedestrians. “It is logical that we integrate the two systems and provide the same facilities to motorists,” said an officer. 
 
 Lalbazar sources insisted that research across the globe — especially the ones by Ohio University in the US and in Shanghai by the Chinese administration — showed the potential benefits of green lights. At time, field observations have shown, drivers accelerate through the intersection at the end of the green cycle even when the countdown time is less than 2 seconds. “In a city like Kolkata, where road use sense is yet to mature, care needs to be taken to make sure some drivers do not use the countdown timer to see if they can ‘beat the clock’,” said an officer from a central   guard, adding that there will be trials for weeks at important intersections before the system is widely used.
 
 
