AHMEDABAD: The sighting of nearly one lakh   has once again established the fact that flamingos are no more migratory in nature at least for the state. Usually the   are born over a period, but this season in the   after a very long time, sighting of nearly one lakh chicks has been documented.

 “Usually, one finds a large number of such chicks but they are born in groups. But this year, the sighting of chicks in such a large number has once again established the successful conservation in the state. The sighting this year is encouraging, especially in the Greater Rann of Kutch,” said principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) G K Sinha.
 
 A forest official said that one of the the reasons for such a large number of chicks was that the water was spread in a large area which was very conducive for flamingo breeding. Flamingo City in the Greater Rann is a world-famous nest where flamingos congregate to breed regularly.
 
 The official said that the species breed on large undisturbed alkaline and saline lakes, saltpans or coastal lagoons, usually far from the shore after seasonal rains provide the flooding necessary to isolate remote breeding sites from terrestrial predators.
 
 According to  , “Smaller populations occur in the Rann of Kutch in north-western India, estimated to be approximately 3,90,000 birds.”
 
 Sighting of such a large number of chicks was never reported at the Rann of Kutch in the past several decades. Even if they were sighted, the numbers were never documented. “But this year, this was properly documented,” said an official. He said that a census of the newborns was also undertaken and a close monitoring was done to ensure that no untoward incident takes place.
 
 The officials said that not just the Greater Rann of Kutch but even areas adjacent to Banaskantha district also witnessed a large number of birds. The officials said that this year because of floods in Banaskantha, water spread to several areas and birds were seen till late December. Senior government officials also visited the site to get a first-hand account.
 
