In a very interesting and adorable trend in Sandalwood, dogs have become an integral part of many upcoming Kannada movies. While movies such as Charlie 777 and   revolve completely around the relationships between humans and pets, others such as   and   have them play pivotal roles in the film. It’s adorable to see pets on screen no doubt, but how hard is it to act with an animal as a co-star? We spoke to lead actors of films with dogs…

 
 
 
 
 One of actress Radhika Chetan’s upcoming films this year, Chase, alongside Avinash Narasimharaju, features a Labrador named Max, who plays the role of Bruno, her pet. It took the actress, who wasn’t that fond of pets, a while to adjust to the dog’s presence. Radhika says, “I’m not used to being around pets, especially dogs. But the role required me to be someone who’s very close to her dog. So I spent close to a week just hanging out with Max (who’s called Bruno in the film) and getting him used to my presence. His trainer gave me tips on how to befriend him and make him trust me soon, because we had scenes where the two of us talk and cuddle. Max is not just a character in the film; he plays an important part in the story as well. He was a star on the set, almost like a spoilt child. I really loved the experience of shooting with a dog because before this, I always feared dogs attacking me, so I stayed away from them. But only after being around one, have I come to realise that that’s far from the truth.”
 
 
 
 
 
 When director Srinivas Thimmaiah got in touch with Samyukta Hornad to narrate a movie about a dog named Gunda and how pets make our lives better, even before he got to the film’s main bits, she agreed to do the film. “Acting in a film about dogs is a dream come true for me. Hearing Srinivas narrate the film was like listening to my own life story and how addicted I am to pets. While we think we help pets by taking care of them, it’s actually pets that help us. During filming, I was so attached to the dogs (Sam and Gunda as the pup, Simba as the grown-up Gunda) to the point that the rest of the cast and crew felt I ignored them. Some of the scenes were interesting too, like the one I was angry with Gunda. All the time on the set, I was playing with him, but when the scene was on, I was yelling at him, so that left him so confused. Coincidentally, my own dog is called Gunda,” says Samyukta Hornad. 
 
 
 
 Charlie 777 is a unique film — about an escaped dog who finds friendship in a depressed, lonely, angry young man, who hates dogs and changes his life for the good. Helmed by Kiranraj K, the film stars  , who says, “I’m not much of a pet person, but I love dogs. We haven’t started shooting for the film yet, but I’ve already started hanging out with the two identical dogs that’ll be playing Charlie in the film. In fact, director   has adopted one of them, while I have adopted the other. We’re prepared for the fact that given the pups’ playfulness 
 and mood, the shoot could take a while.”
 
 
 
 Priya Mani is a pet owner and animal lover, so when she got the offer to act in Nanna Prakara, directed by Vinay Balaji, she grabbed it with both hands — sepcially since it featured a dog too. In the crime-thriller, she’s paired opposite Kishore, who are the loving pet parents of a Labrador named Rocky. Says Priyamani, “I loved filming with Rocky. In the film, he plays a very important part of Kishore’s and my life, whose characters don’t have any off-springs. So he’s almost like a son to them. Some scenes will make you fall head-over-heels in love with him, like the one where Rocky’s dog buddies and girlfriend visit him on his first birthday. He’s such a well-trained, disciplined and talented dog and one of the best, most handsome co-stars I’ve worked with. If another dog movie comes my way, I’m definitely taking it up, even if I have to act for free.”
 
 
 
 Training dogs to act in films is not that hard if you have experience in handling them, says Manidevaru. Better known as Swamy, he owns a training centre for dogs and has trained dogs for acting in over 10 Kannada movies and multiple short films. He says, “The dogs I take to the film sets are well-trained in basic obedience. As far as talent is concerned, it depends on each dog. For example, Rocky, who’s acting in Nanna Prakara, is a very talented dog that can act dead the moment you say ‘shoot’, while nothing can distract Simba, who’s acting in Naanu Mathu Gunda, when he’s in front of the camera. For scenes that are a little complicated, I prepare them well in advance after checking with the directors as to what they expect from the dog. I also take pet parents with me to the set when help is needed to coax the dogs to act better. Obviously, mature dogs are more obedient than the younger ones, who’re very inquisitive and playful.
 
