NEW DELHI: The official broadcaster of the   ( ) is concerned about the impasse between the civic authorities and the Delhi & District Cricket Association ( ) over the club house building at the Ferozeshah Kotla. While doing a recce of the   for relocation of the production unit, the broadcaster and tournament management staff were told by the Delhi Daredevils that Hill B, which is located on one of the sides of the old club house, will be now relocated for the make-shift commentary box and it won't be behind the stumps. 

 
 Sources said that if the commentary box isn't placed behind the bowlers' arm, it would be a massive compromise on the coverage. It is understood that the broadcaster is supposed to get back to the franchisee and   as to how it could be done. Board sources indicated that the broadcaster and the tournament managers will be visiting Kotla again onThursday to decide the next course of action. 
 
 Sources said that DDCA will make a plea in the Delhi High Court that not opening the old club house will mean a loss of revenue for the franchisee as well as depriving more than 2,000 spectators. The plan B is to seek permission from the court to allow at least the media and the broadcasting team so that more people won't have to make way for the media and commentary boxes along with the production unit location. 
 
 With the matter likely to come up for hearing on April 18 and the Delhi Daredevils not having enough time to prepare before the first game on April 23 at Kotla, there is also a talk about moving the media box above the new players' pavilion, which is GMR's lounge, in case the court doesn't oblige.
 
 Sources also said that DDCA and the Daredevils are trying to come out with an arrangement to ensure that the stadium don't lose out on the match in case the court order doesn't come in its favour. “Both DDCA, franchisee and broadcaster are trying to find a middle path to ensure that the match happens at Kotla only. It's just a matter of time when they come up with a contingent plan before the April 18 court case,” a top board official added.
 
 However, BCCI isn't reading too much into this crisis of not getting clearance from the local authorities because the RP Mehra old club block falls 100 metres of the historic Baoli — as per the rule of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). Earlier, BCCI had made several changes in its itinerary after the IPL schedule clashed with the Karnataka elections and the closure of the Chandigarh airport from May 12 onwards.
 
