CHENNAI: The city police have solved the murder of a woman, whose half-burned body was recovered amid bushes in Pazhaveli in   on May 28, with the arrest of a man she had been in a relationship with in MGR Nagar on Sunday. 

 Investigators said D Balamurugan, 30, of Selliamman Nagar, Nerkundran, killed Pokkisha Mary, 33, of Anna Nagar, bludgeoning her with a pressure cooker.
 
 Though the dental braces that the police found on the body led them to suspect that the victim was Jesna, 20, from Pathanamthitta district in Kerala, who went missing on March 22. But a probe ruled out the possibility. 
 
 Pokkisha's father, Aruldoss, who had lodged a missing complaint, heard of the police recovering a burned body. He confirmed that the remains were of his daughter. The police apprehended Balamurugan by going through Pokkisha's cellphone call details, an investigating officer said.
 
 Balamurugan told the police that Pokkisha had been trying to press him to leave his wife for her. Investigators collected CCTV camera footage confirming the events leading up to the crime, the officer said.
 
 "Balamurugan admitted to killing Pokkisha," he said. "Balamurugan and Pokkisha had been in a relationship since 2008, but parted ways last year. He then married another woman. They have an eight-month-old child." 
 
 "He asked her to meet him on May 28 and Pokkisha left home early in the morning on her scooter," the officer said. "She reached CMBT, Koyambedu, and parked her two-wheeler there. Balamurugan took her to his friend's house in MGR Nagar."
 
 After they had sex, Pokkisha brought up the topic of marriage again, the officer said. A heated argument ensued and Balamurugan hit Pokkisha with a pressure cooker. She died on the spot.
 
 "Balamurugan then cleaned bloodstains on the floor, packed the body in a suitcase and handed over the keys of the house back to his friend," the officer said. "He hired a cab to Chengalpet and burned the body with using kerosene he had carried before returning home. 
 
 
