Trichy: Summer showers have come as a boon the forest department which was struggling to prevent causalities of wild animal venturing out of the forest in search of water. 

 Trichy forest division has considerable population of spotted deer and Indian Guar among other wild animals. These animals fall prey to either speeding vehicles while crossing highways or by losing path and ending up their lives in village wells or fall prey to stray dogs.
 
 While Trichy forest division is divided into four forest ranges, except for Thuraiyur which remains green throughout the year, Manapparai, Thuvarankurichi and Trichy ranges are dry forestes. While the risk factor increases for these animals outside the forest, possibilities of forest fire leaves them vulnerable even inside the forest.
 
 Most of the water bodies in the Trichy forest division ran dry due to the heat waves in the past few weeks. While these wild animals were on their way out of the forest in search of water, forest department was keenly searching for water resources inside the forest.
 
 It was during this time, summer showers came as a breather for the forest department, filling most of the water bodies inside the forest. Good rainfall over the past few days has filled most of the ponds. While these ponds were created inside the forest to store water for the wild animals, wild animals are unlikely to venture out of the forest.
 
 While most of the deer population is in the Trichy forest range especially in the M R Palayam reserve forest, a spotted deer was killed on almost every alternative day throughout the last month, a forest department official said. On most occasions, they were either hit by speeding vehicles on the highway while moving from one forest to another or killed by stray animals in villages.
 
 “There are 7-8 percolation ponds dug in the M R Palayam range and almost all the ponds overflows during summer shower in the past two weeks,” said Trichy Divisional Forest Officer D Sujatha. 
 
 “Summer showers proved timely when we were struggling to ensure water resources inside the forest to prevent them from venturing out of the forest,” she said adding that lush green grass inside the forest over rain has ensured food to deer leaving acute chances of them venturing out of forest. There are about 200 odd ponds in 4 forest ranges and most of them have water in store
 
 
