NEW DELHI: Firmly extinguishing any chances of rapprochement with estranged ally Telugu Desam Party (TDP) before the 2019 Lok Sabha election, BJP chief   has accused   chief minister N   of acting due to political considerations rather than concern about the state’s development. 

 
 In a nine-page letter written addressed to Naidu, Shah has said TDP’s “unilateral” decision has little to do with developmental concerns aired by the CM and says the Centre has not only fulfilled its statutory obligations under the AP reorganisation act, but gone further to ensure the state’s financial health. 
 
 “A perusal of these (measures to assist AP) would affirm what you already know and perhaps won’t admit — that the central government has fulfilled its obligations and that BJP is a genuine friend and true well-wisher of the people of Andhra Pradesh,” Shah has said. While Naidu rejected the letter as a “bundle of lies”, Shah said AP is the only state to receive the award of revenue deficit grants for all the five years from 2015 to 2020 besides the eight north-east states and hill states. 
 
 He also said utilisation certificates were received for only 8% of Rs 1,000 crore for a new capital at Amravati, a reflection of BJP’s claim that funds have been misdirected. By virtually accusing of Naidu of resorting to untruths, Shah seems to have cut off any prospects of re-engaging with TDP and this might open the doors to a re-alignment in AP. 
 
 Political sources feel that a pre-poll alliance with YSR   may be challenge given the regional party is also, like TDP, demanding special status for AP, but it can do business with BJP in the future. YSR Congress has not taken a strong anti-BJP position as some other regional opposition parties like Trinamool or SP-BSP. Shah listed development projects that have been sanctioned by the Centre in what is seen as an attempt to counter Naidu’s attack that the   government discriminated against the state. 
 
 The sharply worded letter serves to bring out the bitterness that has marked the parting of ways between the one-time allies. Seeking to turn tables on Naidu, Shah accused him of “serious lapses”, saying it has not provided the Centre with fund-utilisation details and that the CM’s comments that his government was under no obligation to give an expenditure statement were “evasive and reflect a governance deficit”. 
 
 Upset over the Centre’s stand that it can’t grant special category status to Andhra in view of the decision of the 14th finance commission doing away with this category — with certain exceptions — TDP broke its four-year old ties with BJP and has now moved a no-confidence motion against the Modi government in Lok Sabha. 
 
 Shah dubbed the attack on the Centre by parties in Andhra Pradesh over the issue as a case of political parties “whipping up public sentiments” rather than encouraging informed debate which, he said, is the cornerstone of a vibrant democracy. “I would like you to introspect whether political parties should be pitting sentiments and development against each other to further their political agenda... This decision (quitting NDA) is both unfortunate as well as unilateral,” Shah said.
 
