MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday said that the   was an eye opener and directed the   and civic administrations to file affidavits to explain all fire safety regulations and procedures for grant of licence and supervision involved. 

 The court was informed by BMC counsel Anil Sakhare that the civic body had begun an audit of all licensed eating houses and over 6,000 such establishments were already inspected since, 20 were sealed and action initiated against several others.
 
 A bench of Justice R M Borde and Justice R G Ketkar called for a report on proper inspection of statutory requirements and adherence. It said that the fire had shaken the conscience of society. The HC was hearing a PIL filed by former Mumbai top cop Julio Rebeiro to highlight the need for urgent measures. His counsel Sujay Kantawalla said it was “not an adversarial litigation’’ but “genuine concern’’ by Rebeiro at the lackadaisical attitude of the BMC and hence wanted proper fire safety audits of all restaurants and bars jointly by civic and fire department officials. 
 
 The HC also allowed the intervention of Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association to the PIL. Sakhare said that state had sought a report on the Kamala Mills fire from the civic chief that would be submitted by Friday. The HC said the report be submitted in a sealed cover to the court too. The HC wants the BMC to bring along all circulars regarding fire safety issued to licensed eateries and to certify if all fire safety norms are in place. It wants the “verification and inspections of the premises and to inform if compliance is in place.’’ “In case of discrepancy,’’ the HC said the BMC should take into account “statutory obligations”.
 
 “The fire incident is a result of the   system’s failure to ensure strict adherence to regulations and conditions imposed on such eating hubs, bars, pubs and so on,” Justice Borde said. The HC perused a fire department’s report and noted the aspects of fire safety that were given a go-by when illegal sheds were created with inflammable material. 
 
 The HC also directed that the state must check sale of liquor in restaurants and bars and excise officials must step in too to check if there are strict adherence to rules. The HC said it would look at the food stalls on roads and directed the BMC to take “appropriate steps’’ about such stalls that cater to a “large population’’.
 
 The BMC and state have to reply on what regulations are framed for eating houses and if there is “sufficient space for manoeuvring firefighting vehicles”.
 
 
