NAGPUR: In a big boost for the proposed Smart City area and also the Metro Rail’s ridership, the Maharashtra   Corporation Limited ( ) has taken a decision to extend East-West corridor on two ends in phase-I and develop two new stations, Pardi and Hingna Mount View. This was decided at a meeting of the Mahametro’s board of directors on Friday.

 The corridor will be extended up to Pardi towards the east from where the   (NMC) has proposed to take up the Smart City project and Rajiv Nagar on Hingna Road towards the west. The estimated cost of the expansion is Rs218.89 crore which Mahametro will manage from its approved cost of Rs8,680 crore itself.
 
 As per the proposal, the expansion is likely to increase estimated ridership by 50,000 per day and financial internal rate of return (FIRR) by 1.25% from 10.35% (as per approved detailed project report) to 11.60%. Now, the total number of Metro stations in phase-I will increase to 42 as against 36 approved in detailed project report (DPR).
 
 As per the existing DPR, the Prajapati Nagar Metro station was the last one towards the east. Now, Pardi Metro station, which will come up some distance before Nag river bridge on Bhandara road, will be the last one. The Hingna Mount View station will be the last one in the west corridor instead of Lokmanya Nagar station.
 
 The Metro rail corridor will increase by 895 meter towards the east and 521 meter towards the west for a total rise of 1,416 meter. “The estimated cost of Rs218.89 crore will be met within the approved cost of Rs8,680 crore as the same shall be charged to the savings in the sanctioned cost of the project. There will not be any impact on headway of existing train movement,” the Mahametro said.
 
 The Mahametro plans to develop the Pardi Metro station as multi-model integrated facilities due to proximity of road junction, residences, bus stand, taxi stand and auto stand. “Pardi, situated on Bhandara-Raipur national highway, is a big transport hub and commuters coming from Bhandara side will find this station very convenient to use. Therefore, the station will increase footfall and also fare box revenue,” the Mahametro said.
 
 The Mahametro is also eyeing a large number of students’ footfall at Rajiv Nagar where three educational institutions, YCCE,   College of Engineering and Datta Meghe College of Engineering, are situated. “Hingna has been developed around proposed Hingna Mount View station and area around Hingna depot is being developed as a big residential hub. The station will also cater to Wanadongri residents and other industrial units. Therefore, this station will increase ridership and also fare box revenue,” the Mahametro said.
 
 
