HYDERABAD : City jeweller Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who was arrested by sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in Kolkata two days ago, has been facing a Central Bureau of Investigation and   probe regarding a   (SBI) bank fraud case in Hyderabad. The CBI has charged that he duped the Koti branch of SBI to the tune of RS 65 crore in the metal gold loan scheme by producing fake collateral securities in 2012.

 Agarwal hit the headlines after he was arrested on April 6 this year, while he was carrying gold jewellery worth over Rs 16 crore at Kolkata airport following the dramatic recall of an IndiGo flight from the runway while it was about to take off for Hyderabad. The arrest followed the DRI booking an export-related fraud involving Sanjay and his son.
 
 
 In the previous case registered by the CBI, the investigating agency alleged that Agarwal of Ghanshyamdas Gems and Jewels at Abids had produced fake bank guarantee worth crores of rupees purportedly issued by the Hyderabad branch of Punjab National Bank. The scam that began in June 2010 came to light in August 2011when PNB confirmed that the bank guarantee was fake. By that time, Sanjay had taken on loan 250kg of gold from SBI.
 
 SBI assistant general manager Surya Prakash told TOI: “The CBI case against Sanjay Kumar Agarwal is still on. We haven’t written off his loan, and it is still categorised as a fraud account.” The CBI had then arrested Sanjay and he was later granted bail by the court. Agarwal was named in the wilful defaulter's list of Punjab National Bank in 2016.
 
 ED sources said that the case that was booked by the CBI in 2012 was handed over to the Enforcement Directorate for investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in 2014. The case is still under investigation by ED, and the agency is yet to attach properties of the accused. ED sources said SBI had included Sanjay Agarwal’s loan in the written off list and the agency is taking legal opinion to go ahead with the case for attaching the properties. However, SBI has denied writing off the loan.
 
 Interestingly, Sanjay was earlier arrested by the DRI for using a similar modus operandi for gold export.
 
 A source at the Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation (MMTC) of India told TOI: “At MMTC, we sell gold for export and domestic purpose. When the jeweller buys the gold for export, he is supposed to make ornaments and export. After submitting all necessary documentation and proofs of export, 10% customs tax relief is given to the exporter within 90 days. In this case, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal as an authorised signatory of a jewellery firm had last purchased the gold from MMTC in April 2017. Since then, he has not purchased gold from MMTC. What was caught at Kolkata airport may not be from MMTC. And it is not from the Hyderabad MMTC and other units too said they did not sell gold to him.”
 
