On Friday, a group of 40 women and two men set a new record with 1,008 surya namaskars for the  . Interestingly, they broke their own record of 501 surya namaskars. With motivational music playing and volunteers cheering, the group managed to achieve the feat in six hours at a hall in Andheri.

 
 
 
 The bunch of yoga enthusiasts, irrespective of their age, were motivated by Dr  , a yoga teacher. who had organised the event. The youngest in the group, Simran Patel (12) took to yoga last year. She said, “I have been practising it in school and the extra hours that I put in helped to complete the record.” The oldest member was   (61), a yoga teacher, who has been practising for the past 50 years. Having been part of the group that created the 501 surya namaskar record last year, she was happy that she could do the same this year. She revealed, “I never knew my capacity, but after this session I feel so energised that I don’t feel like going home. I feel like walking to   at Prabhadevi. I had done this the last time soon after we had completed the 501 record.”
 
 
 
 
 Among the participants was a couple,   (46) and Ashwin Patel (56), who stood out from the rest. It was Ashwin’s first brush with a record-breaking session. “We both started learning yoga 15 years ago. It was Navina, who pushed me to join the group to break the record this year,” he says.
 Navina, who was part of the record-breaking spree last year as well, says, “As we were nearing our goal, we could only listen to the counting of numbers and the encouragement by volunteers. We didn’t feel like stopping. I felt so light and energetic that I probably could have done another 200 to 300 more surya namaskars.”
 
 
 
 
 The participants said that they were confident of achieving this feat as a lot of planning went behind it. They had four months of special training under the guidance of Dr Patel. “The training started with stretches and an assistance yoga session, where they helped each other in stretching their bodies and giving acupressure. We did yoga six days a week for one-and-half hours and cardio for an hour. 
 They were also on a special sports diet along with cardio vascular training, which included jogging, skipping, breathing exercises and marathon running. Apart from strength building, they were put on a protein diet, starch diet and amino acid diet for a month each,” he said. “For practise sessions, we started with yoga, asanas and 108 surya namaskars. We then increased the count gradually to 1008. Since surya namaskar activates the chakras and energy fields, the participants will now cooll down with 300–400 surya namaskars for the next 10-15 days,” added Patel. When the day arrived, the group started with a light breakfast of a mini cup of chai, half idli or paratha. Through the six-hour session, they had a 2-3 minutes break after every batch of 50 surya namaskars. During this break they had an almond, a date or a small bite of kaju katli.
 
