NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Thursday argued in court that   Anshu Prakash was assaulted in such a way that it could have resulted in his death and, therefore, they would press for the charge of attempt to commit culpable homicide against the two AAP MLAs -- Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal -- accused of allegedly assaulting Prakash. 

 “They assaulted him (Prakash) in a such a way that it could have resulted in his death. I will press for Section 308 (attempt to culpable homicide) of IPC,” said additional public prosecutor Atul Kumar Srivastava. 
 
  
  
 
 He also said that Jain, in his statement, told police that seven MLAs were there in the meeting room and the complainant had identified four persons. “The defence has given a list of 11 persons. We have to confront them for ascetaining who all were there,” he submitted. During the hearing, the prosecution filed a fresh application seeking police remand of the two MLAs opposing the bail plea. The court also heard arguments on the arrested MLAs’ bail application. Following the arguments, the court reserved its order on both applications for Friday. Meanwhile, both MLAs were sent to judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 Additional DCP, north, Harinder Singh informed the metropolitan magistrate, Shefali Barnala Tandon, that chief secretary Prakash was made to sit between the two MLAs so as to "fragment" and "assault" him past midnight. "Minority and caste cards have been played but it is not so. If he knew there were going to be 11 MLAs, he wouldn’t have attended the meeting given that there was no calamity-like situation,” he pointed out. The senior police official also added that some "new facts" had emerged that could have a direct bearing on the case.
 
 Supporting the prosecution's case, the chief secretary's counsel, Rajeev Mohan, said that the meeting was called to discuss the AAP government’s achievements of three years — two ads had to be put on air Prakash was informed. “He was called at midnight. The CM said that the 11 MLAs would ask him about civil supplies. The CM and deputy CM didn’t stop the MLAs from assaulting him. He came out on the pretext of catching some fresh air. There was a conspiracy and the meeting was called on a false pretext,” he asserted.
 
 Defence counsel B S Joon, however, pointed out that the order passed on February 21 dismissing the plea for police custody had not been challenged. “Jain’s (V K Jain) statement was with them yesterday also, then why wasn’t it argued yesterday?....Wherever space was found he (CS) was made to sit,” said Joon. 
 
 The defence had yesterday argued that the CS had reached the CM’s residence around 11.24pm and left around 11.31pm. Therefore, he had said that the CS was at the CM’s residence for about seven minutes and eight seconds. This timing was recorded in the   footage, according to the defence at the entry-exit gate. However, the prosecutor on Thursday submitted that going by Jain’s statement, the CS had reached the CM’s residence at midnight. 
 
 “Whether the CCTV was tampered with can be decided only by experts. Only contents of FIR have to be taken into consideration for bail. What evidence is there to show there was prior meeting of mind, any conspiracy,” Joon asked. Referring to a complaint made by MLA Jarwal under SC/ST Act, Joon asked if his statement had been received by the police and what action had been taken till now. “The FIR is fabricated and an afterthought filed after legal consultation. There are no cases in which the the accused have been convicted. They’re not hardened criminals,” he said.
 
 
