BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh high court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by 80 assistant professors of Dr   Sagar   for regularization of service. They are currently on probation.

 The petitioners had claimed that Ordinance 14 of the University Act gives them the right to be confirmed as assistant professors. They argued that they having been appointed by the university, they are “deemed to be confirmed at the end of one year”, unless extended for another year by a specific order. The university, however, told the court that there were gross irregularities in their appointments.
 
 On Monday, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice   ruled that their petition doesn’t hold. “If the petitioners are legally appointed after following due process of law, only then provisions of Ordinance 14 would be applicable, but unless and until the university is permitted to examine the legality and validity of the appointments the petitioners cannot claim any mandamus. If the appointments are proper, consequences are automatic,” the court ruled. The university was asked to conclude the inquiry into the appointments by two months.
 
 “We do not find any merit in the writ petition. The entire selection process is said to be tainted, inasmuch as against 82 posts of assistant professors, 157 appointments have been made. Some of the appointments were made even without application and on the basis of interview. Some appointments were made though the candidature was rejected by the scrutiny committee,” the court order said.
 
 The court was informed that the then vice-chancellor N S Gajbhiyea and a few officials face a CBI probe for irregularities in assistant professor appointments. “The court’s decision is our victory,” said  , one of the whistleblowers in the case, along with Anil Purohit and  .
 
 “In these circumstances, we find that the university must be given fair opportunity to inquire as to which of the petitioners has been appointed in a manner not justified in law. As per the return filed, investigations have been initiated against the then vice-chancellor. The illegalities in the process of appointment have to be investigated. It could not proceed because of an interim order passed by this court that no coercive steps be taken against the petitioners, who had invoked the jurisdiction of this court to pre-empt the inquiry into the manner of their appointment so that they can continue on the post even if their appointment was not legal, proper and in accordance with the provisions of law,” order reads. 
 
 Under The Scanner
 
 University’s report submitted in court 
 
 Department-wise distribution of reserved category posts neither mentioned in the advertisement nor in the corrigendum
 
 Some candidates found ineligible by the scrutiny committee were appointed
 
 Some assistant professors appointed in departments where posts were not advertised
 
 Appointments exceeded the number of posts sanctioned and advertised
 
 Posts earmarked for a particular category were not filled in that manner
 
 No score was awarded despite UGC Regulations 2010 (50% for academic and research records, 30% for domain knowledge and 20% for interview) 
 
 No merit list was drawn up by the selection committees
 
 Selection committees were not held separately for reserved categories despite a govt order
 
 Some candidates who hadn’t applied were allowed to participate in the interview and appointed
 
 
