NEW DELHI: The last time a   was   in the capital in December 2016, it had to be   and   to the   hills in Uttar Pradesh. However, forest officials said the   which was caught on camera in   on Monday need not be moved out and could be allowed to live in the area — provided locals from the Air Force station don’t have an objection.

 The forest department, which already has patrol teams in the area, said they will also be holding a meeting with the Air Force station authorities in the next couple of days to chalk out a solution. “We have already written to the station to release the video to us about the sighting which they captured on video. We also plan to discuss whether they want the animal to be captured or not,” said a senior forest official.
 
 While the forest department on Tuesday had said they were preparing to set up a cage in the area to capture the animal, they say instructions have been given to only scan the area for pugmarks and the cage has not been set up yet.
 
 “We will set up the cage once the meeting is complete. If the station authorities don’t have a problem with the animal being in that area, and if the area is secure enough and away from human habitat, then it may be allowed to live there. In that case, we will not set up the cage to capture and transfer it away but will simply monitor the area,” said the official.
 
 The sighting was first made on Monday, with a call placed to NGO wildlife SOS that also sent out to a team in the area on Tuesday. Forest officials said the leopard was once again sighted in the area on Wednesday around 4am. “No pugmarks have been found yet but our team will continue to stay in the area as the leopard had reportedly been sighted multiple times,” said a wildlife SOS official.
 
 Experts have welcomed the move and said it would not be feasible for the forest department to relocate the animal. “We have seen this in Maharashtra that each time a leopard is captured and relocated, the whole process is very stressful for the animal. This increases the chances of it attacking people in the area in which it was released. The forest department should keep monitoring the area and just let the animal be,” said Vidya Athreya, a wildlife biologist specialising in leopards and in-charge of the Waghoba project in Maharashtra.
 
 
