Coimbatore: With Sterlite’s copper smelter shut due to pollution related issues, seasonal demand in China and fears of supply disruptions in Indonesia, copper prices have increased by nearly 9% in the last one month. Sterlite’s plant in Tuticorin has the capacity to produce 4 lakh tonnes of copper per year.

 Sterlite, which is a subsidiary of UK-based Vedanta Resources plc, owns one of the two custom copper smelters in India and, according to International Copper Association (India), had a 33% market share by sales volume in fiscal 2017, which ended on March 31, 2017. 
 
 The other major custom copper smelter in India is operated by Hindalco Industries Limited.
 
 UK-based Vedanta announced on April 10 that the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board rejected the company’s application to renew its right to operate its copper smelting facility in Tuticorin. The facility has been shut down since March 27 when it began a 15-day scheduled maintenance turnaround. “It (the shutdown) has an impact because the company (Sterlite) is one of the top-2 (copper) producers in the country,” said Kaynat Chainwala, research analyst, base metals, Angel Commodities Broking. Since hitting a low of Rs 425 per kg on March 27, copper prices have been on a steady uptrend. Copper prices are now ruling at around Rs 460 per kg in the spot market. The prices are above the 200-day moving average levels.
 
 “Most of the rally (in prices) is due to supply concerns,” analysts said. “The strong rally in other base metals such as aluminum has also spilled over to copper,” they said. “Seasonal demand is quite high in China during April and May,” Chainwala said. “People are worried as there are fresh concerns about supply disruptions in Indonesia,” she said. Despite the smelter shutdown, Vedanta said that it will pursue its plans to expand production capacity at Tuticorin, doubling it to 8 lakh tons per annum by adding a second copper smelter. At year-end 2017, the company had spent about 15% of the second smelter’s $576 million projected cost. “A prolonged shutdown would be credit negative for Vedanta because of the potential loss of revenue and earnings from its copper operations in India,” Moody’s Investors Service said. The company’s revenues would decline 25% to $10.8 billion from $14.4 billion, and its reported EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) would decline 5% to $3.6 billion from $3.8 billion, the agency estimated.
 
 
 
