Alappuzha:  , the senior-most  , died of age-related ailments at his home Thazhamon Madom at Mundankavu near Chengannur on Monday noon. He was 90.

 The tantri was bed-ridden for the past three years. The funeral will be held at 11 am on the premises of Thazhamon Madom on Tuesday.
 
 Maheswararu was born on February 17, 1928, as the son of Kandararu Parameshwaru of Thazhamon Madam and Subhadra Antarjanam of Edavoor Madam. Maheswararu was nine-years-old when Mahatma Gandhi paid a visit to Thazhamon Madom on January 20, 1937, said  , his grandson,
 
 Maheswararu performed his first pooja at Chengannur Mahadeva Temple at the age of 12. He went to Sabarimala temple at the age of 14 with his father. At the age of 18, he started to take part in the tantric rituals of Sabarimala temple.
 
 After the demise of Parameswararu, Kandararu Sankararu, Kandararu Neelakandararu and Kandararu Maheswararu led the tantric rituals. After the death of Kandararu Sankararu, Neelakandararu and Maheswararu became the chief priests of the temple. Maheswararu’s grandson Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu is the present tantri of Sabarimala temple. 
 
 Mohanararu assumed the charge of tantri at Sabarimala at the age of 22 in August, 2015 owing to the ill health of Kandararu Maheswararu.
 
 Rahul said his grandfather served as the priest of Sabarimala from 1950 onwards. He was tantri of around 550 temples in India and 14 other nations including US, UK, Malaysia and Singapore.
 
 He is survived by wife Devaki Antarjanam, son Kandararu Mohanararu, daughters Mallika and Devika, grandchildren Rahul Easwar, Mahesh, Sandeep and Sri Lekshmi. The charge of the present tantri will be given temporarily to another person, who does not have a blood relation to the tantri family on account of the death.
 
 Sabarimala temple executive officer V N Chandrasekharan said there would be no change in the rituals of the temple due to the death of Kandararu Maheswararu. “The temple opened at 5pm on Monday for Edavam monthly pooja and will be closed on May 19. “However, we conducted special abhishekam and malar nedhyam at 5 pm on Monday following which the temple was closed for half-an-hour,’’ he said.
 
 
