BHOPAL: The launch of a global quiz competition based on the book “Mere Deendayal” by BJP's youth wing, kicked up a controversy on Tuesday with the book blaming the `greed of power’ of the then Prime Minister   and   for the partition of the country.

  party objected to the comments in the book, drawing a quick reaction from   that claimed it was a typing error.
 
 The competition based on general knowledge was inaugurated by chief minister   at MVM College ground. It was claimed that more than 27 lakh youth were participating in the contest from across the globe. The quiz was based on the questions given in the 26-page book "Mere Deendayal" published by the BJYM state unit
 
 A part of the question paper on Pt Deendayal's contribution and ideology on ‘Akhand Bharat’ (United India) mentioned his opinion against top leaders involved in the partition. The last paragraph of the book read, “The dream of united independent India could not be realised because of the `greed for power’ of Pt Nehru and Jinnah and their falling into the British trap, and a divided India got the freedom.” 
 
 Reacting sharply on the content, Congress alleged that generations in BJP and RSS could never match the contribution made by the Congress in the struggle for Independence.
 
 “It was not Deendayal but Pt Jawaharlal Nehru who laid the foundation of modern India. BJP should desist from distorting historical facts,” remarked a furious leader of opposition in MP Assembly, Ajay Singh.
 
 BJYM state president Abhilash Pandey clarified, “Nehru was the first prime minister of our country and we cannot disrespect him. The question was for Jinnah, and Nehru’s name cropped up as a misprint.”
 
 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who the chief guest did not stayed clear from the controversy and did not mention about it, instead, he promoted the youth to actively participate in the contest and follow Pt Deendayal's ideology on ‘integrated humanism’.
 
 He also reiterated his commitment to extend financial and moral support to meritorious students who attained a minimum 70% marks and wish to pursue higher studies.
 
 BJYM state president Pandey said that winner of the competition will get a chance to participate in ‘Coffee with CM’ besides, other surprising rewards. The contest is being held in 40 countries at one go with 9,154 exam centres and 30.98 participants below the age of 35 years, whom the wing has provided the book. Results of the quiz will be declared after seven days, he added.
 
 The quiz competition has also made a world record with 30 lakh participants from 40 countries, claimed Pandey.
 
 
