MUMBAI: The Maharashtra State   Commission (MSHRC) has directed the   director to pay Rs 15 lakh to the father of an   for carrying out a shoddy   into his mysterious death thus delaying delivery of justice. The commission said the father has been waiting for justice for seven years and the adverse findings against the CBI by a magistrate court raises question over the credibility of the investigators and the way they function.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 The commission’s directions came in response to a complaint filed by Vijay Singh, a Patna resident whose son Santosh was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Kharghar on July 15, 2011. The commission said the compensation has to be paid for violation of his fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution within six weeks and disciplinary action initiated against the erring officers. 
 
 MSHRC member M A Sayeed, in his order, asked the CBI to sensitise officers about significance of a proper investigation in accordance with the rules and procedures.
 
 Vijay Singh had filed a complaint with the commission in 2011, which was amended five years later with additional evidence. The CBI, which last probed the   case based on a high court order, had concluded it as a suicide and filed a closure report in the magistrate court at Panvel. 
 
 The magistrate court refused to accept the report pointing out lapses and ordered arrest of the accused for murder. 
 
 Santosh stayed on the fourth floor of Janardan Sadan building with three friends—Vikas Kumar, Jitendra Kumar, Dheeraj Kumar. On July 15, 2011, he was found dead in the balcony of a first floor flat. Kharghar police registered an accidental death report on the basis of Jitendra’s statement where he mentioned that Santosh had, under the influence of alcohol, committed suicide by jumping from the toilet window. Vijay was not satisfied with the finding of the local police that Santosh committed suicide. In 2012, he filed a writ petition in the high court, which ordered a CID probe, but Vijay was again not satisfied with the progress. On his request, the high court then ordered a CBI probe. The CBI registered a case of murder and filed a closure report in a Panvel court. 
 
 Magistrate J M Chavan, in his December 2017 order rejecting the closure report, said the possibility of Santosh being under the influence of alcohol is not proved in the chemical analysis report. “It is impossible for the deceased to climb atop the flush tank under the influence of alcohol and remove the window panes.” The magistrate also cited various other inconsistencies based on the medical report, including the time of the death. “Material showed that the investigation was not proper, and it was done in a manner to save the accused,” the court said. 
 
 The court believed that the deceased was inflicted multiple injuries with a sharp object due to which he died. The court observed that evidence showed the accused had killed Santosh and thrown the body down to show it as a suicide. The order said, “It was unnatural death, but still even the medial officer had not preserved viscera for analysis.” The magistrate slammed the CBI for terming the suspicious death as a case of suicide despite the fact that circumstantial evidence indicated that it was a murder. 
 
 All the three accused are at present in judicial custody.
 
