CHENNAI:  's pavement-widening project in areas of   has hit a roadblock with residents opposing the increase in width due to increasing encroachments on widened pavements. 

 The corporation's bus route roads department of the has begun work on widening pavements along Kasturba Nagar 3rd Cross Street and Indira Nagar 1st Avenue. "The pavements will be designed to have a width ranging from 2 metres to 2.9 metres by keeping the road width fixed at 10 metres," said a corporation official. The residents feel that there should be more space on carriageway for vehicles and that the existing footpaths should be maintained first.
 
 According to residents, the footpath on Kasturba Nagar 3rd Cross Street was in a good shape and did not require relaying or widening.
 
  "With buses plying, there is barely any space on the road. Stores took over older pavements. If the pavements are is widened, there will be more encroachments," said K Shanthi of Adyar. After a similar exercise on 2nd Avenue, Besant Nagar, food and fruit vendors set up shop along the pavements.
 
 "If they want to design the pavement, shouldn't we - the users - be consulted? It is a project for the public and we were not told about the specifications on how the pavement would be widened and how much space would be there on the road?" she questioned. "How can they decide to fix the road size and have varying widths of pavements? If it's a bus route road, there should be more space for vehicles to ply," said C Ramakrishnan of Federation of Adyar Residents' Association.
 
 A corporation official said the footpaths will have bollards to prevent encroachments. They will be wider to accommodate ducts for electricity and phone cables, he said.
 
 "In case of power failure, the repairmen can come and replace the wire inside the ducts. Also, new footpath and designated markings on the road for parking would help improve pedestrian and road users' experience. There will be more space for pedestrians to walk," said the official.
 
 
