CHENNAI: Thousands thronged the Marina and other popular hangout spots on the occasion of Kannum Pongal. Nearly 56,000 people visited Arignar Anna Zoological Park and   on Tuesday, according to a release from the government.

 Despite the high footfall and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s visit to the city, there were no major traffic issues on Kamarajar Salai leading to Marina and other arterial roads including the   which is dotted with amusements parks.
 
 The traffic police, who were in full strength at all public places attributed the free flow of traffic to diversion of private vehicles along key stretches where traffic jams were usually reported. For instance, pedestrians were able to cross Kamarajar Salai easily on Tuesday as private vehicles plying towards Marina were diverted via Bharathi Salai - Bells Road, said traffic police. Besides this, designated parking lots were setup in and around Marina and three drones were used for better traffic management. As many as 51 children, who had come along with their families to different beaches in the city, went missing. All of them were rescued and reunited with their families with the help of different enforcement agencies.
 
 Commuters complained that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) had collected excess fare. “Though Rs 5 is the minimum fare collected for travelling from Central Railway Station to Anna Square on Tuesday Rs 10 was collected in small buses,” said MTC sources.
 
 Similar allegations came up from passengers who travelled to  , Gunidy and other tourist spots. Authorities refused to comment when questioned. There was also a shortage in drivers available to operate MTC buses in the city as many were deployed on long routes (Pongal special buses). An altercation broke out between authorities at the Vadapalani MTC depot and staff who were asked to work for more than 10 hours to compensate the absenteeism. 
 
 In a first, a dozen temporary shops were allowed inside the Children’s Park which sold chips in polythene bags, later strewn all over the park. The place attracts a large number of free ranging deer and endangered black buck which would feed on leftover food, said a former forest range officer.
 
 
