In case you are planning to travel abroad, carrying a   is something mandatory that you must carry. Anyone can get a passport any time, whenever needed documents and details are produced. In India, a passport is valid for 10 years, after which it needs to be renewed or before it expires. 

 Applicants who wish to renew their passport online can make payment and book an appointment on the official website.
 Below-mentioned are the steps that a person needs to follow in order to renew their passport:
 
 
 
 
 1. Register for the   on the official website of   - www.passportindia.gov.in.
 
 
 2. Already registered users on the website can login using the link “Existing User? Login”
 
 
 3. Those who are new to the website can click on “New User? Register Now”
 
 
 4. Choose the passport office that is the closest to your place and easily accessible
 
 
 5. To register yourself, you will have to enter your basic details correctly as mentioned
 
 
 6. Create a login ID and password
 
 
 7. You will receive a confirmation mail on your registered mail ID
 
 
 8. Activate your account by clicking on the link sent to your email
 
 
 9. After logging in to your passport account, click on “Apply for Fresh Passport/Re-issue of Passport”
 
 
 
 
 Application can be filled in two ways
 
 1. Download the form in PDF format and fill it offline
 
 
 2. Fill the form that is available online
 
 
 3. Fill up your current address.
 
 
 4. Update your details if you wish to change your spouse details or any such details.
 
 
 5. Give two local references along with their full name, contact number and address. In case police verification is required, these people will be contacted. In case of online forms, click on submit to complete the application.
 
 
 6. For those filling the PDF form, make sure you enter your city or village, you must click on validate and save the form. You will also have to upload this document on the same page from where you had downloaded it. The details will automatically be entered in the online form. 
 
 
 
 
 No payment is needed for renewing the passport application
 
 
 
 
 1. Click on “Schedule Appointment”
 
 
 2. Select from the available slots, which is you find most convenient.
 
 
 3. After confirming your choice of slot, your appointment will be scheduled.
 
 
 Please note: Make sure you do carry all the needed documents as mentioned on the official website. That too in the form (original/photocopy) required.
 
