CHANDIGARH:Five   veterans, who were removed for their alleged involvement in the infamous Samba spy case, have requested the Union government and the Supreme Court to restore their honour in their lifetime.

  
  
 
 Terming the incident as “classic case” of immense manipulations and abuse of power by military intelligence (MI) against innocent soldiers and suppression of facts by the Union government to cover up their act, the veterans have demanded probe of the entire issue through a special investigation team (SIT) or independent agency.
 
 As many as 19 officers and 51 persons below officers rank (PBOR) were sacked for their alleged involvement in Samba Spy case. More than 100 were arrested/tortured by the military intelligence in relation to the case.
 
 In 2000, the Delhi high court had exonerated all the Army personnel allegedly involved in the case. However, on Centre’s appeal, the Delhi HC order was set aside by the Supreme Court in March 2014. The main grouse of these veterans is that the apex court order was based on fraud as military authorities had suppressed certain facts from the apex court.
 
 All these veterans, including Major Nirmal Ramchand Ajwani, Major A K Rana, Captain V K Diwan, Captain R S Rathore and Captain J S Yadav, also announced to launch country wide campaign for a probe in the case. Now settled in different parts of the country, they had gathered in Chandigarh on Friday along with their family members.
 
 “We all are innocent... It would also be in the national interest that people know what had happened then,” said Major V K Diwan, who had come from Noida. Captain J S Yadav, now settled in Gurgaon, said, “Most of us are at the fag end of life but want the Union government to restore our honour by lifting the veil from real facts of the case.”
 
 A former officer of Army’s judge advocate general (JAG), Major Nirmal Ajwani, who claimed to have been implicated in the case for not supporting the Army authorities in false implication of innocent officers, said, “Some files produced before the Supreme Court in relation to the case were not shown to us during hearing of the case. Centre should show us all such files and the Supreme Court should take suo motu cognizance to re-hear the case. A case based on fraud cannot attain finality.”
 
