AHMEDABAD: Mobile phones and laptops seized from Amit, Sumit and   will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) to retrieve audio-video files and documents that the   (CBI) suspects are vital to their investigation.

 The promoters of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL), Suresh Bhatnagar and his sons Amit and Sumit were arrested on Tuesday night in a joint operation by CBI and   ATS. DPIL is accused of cheating various banks out of Rs 2,654 crore in an FIR lodged by the CBI.
 
 
 On the day the CBI registered the FIR, the   left Vadodara for Udaipur. They staying the one hotel there ever since. CBI sources said they have had non-bailable warrants against the Bhatnagars after their anticipatory bail plea was rejected by a special CBI court in Ahmedabad.
 
 CBI registered an FIR against DPIL after searches by the I-T department on April 10 allegedly revealed that the promoters obtained loans by showing a higher turnover through bogus intra-group transactions of Rs 550 crore, said a senior CBI official.
 
 DPIL manufactures electrical cables and equipment.
 
 “Of the total turnover of Rs 600 crore of two group of companies in 2017-18, Rs 550 crore was through the alleged bogus transactions,” said a CBI official. According to CBI sources, DPIL fraudulently availed of credit facilities from a consortium of 11 banks (both public and private) from 2008, leading to an outstanding debt of Rs 2,654 crore as of June 29, 2016.
 
 The company allegedly submitted false stock statements to the lead bank treating receivables more than 180 days old (non-current assets) as less than 180 days (current assets) to get more drawing power in the cash credit accounts.
 
 CBI sources said DPIL utilised its cash credit limits to obtain a large number of letters of credit and many could not be honoured by the company and were thus “forced changes” on the credit limits.
 
 Among the consortium, Bank of India’s exposure to the company is Rs 670.51 crore, Bank of Baroda’s exposure is Rs 348.99 and that of ICICI bank is Rs 279 crore, the   said.
 
 
