HYDERABAD: A project in the pipelines to turn the   riverfront into a world-class landmark has recieved fresh traction with 10 internationally-reputed firms registering themselves with the government to provide designs on developing the riverfront. 

 
 Designers like Turenscape of China, Eco System Design of US, Henning Larsen of Denmark, Wow Design Studio of Singapore, Arup International, UK-India, Space Matters & Snohetta, Norway-India, Surbana Jurong, Singapore-India, Hafeez Contractor, Mumbai, HCP Design in Ahmedabad and Anagram Architects of Delhi have come forward to change the very look of the Musi for the entire 57km river corridor and the Puranapul-Chaderghat stretch as well.
 
 "The firms and consultants will be selected on the basis of their experience in designing urban landscapes and riverfronts. We are seeking bold ideas, inventive approaches with international best practices that would suit Musi's ecology, the history of Hyderabad, our culture, and out growth patterns and development goals," principal secretary, municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD),   said. While the last date for registration is May 9, deadline for submission of designs is June 10. 
 
 Kumar said the riverfront is being designed to be a world-class, sustainable and innovative landmark globally. "A jury of eminent architects, academics and experts in the field will select the firm. A public exhibition of designs will be organised between July and August 2019," he said.
 
 Senior officials explained that the firms that take part in the design competition will have to redesign the existing development on the riverbank on both the sides in the selected stretch between Puranapul and Chaderghat (3 km). "The total stretch should have conceptual plans with 3D visuals showcasing the ideas," an official said. 
 
 The government has taken up Musi riverfront development project to restore and conserve the Musi and revitalise its environs. The 57km corridor has been proposed with east-west connectivity as skyway, river conservation and beautification from the outfall of   and Osmansagar in the west to   at   in the east. 
 
 
