Tirupur: Five students from government schools in the district are just one step away from entering one of the prestigious IITs in our country. The five, all belonging to the backward community, have cleared the joint entrance examination (main) this year. Purportedly, this is the highest number of government school students to clear the nation-wide engineering entrance exam from a district.  The district administration, which took a special effort to provide coaching for the students, is confident that at least one among them would clear the JEE (advanced). As directed by collector K S Palanisamy, the district school education department selected top 30 Class XII students interested in engineering studies. “We conducted an entrance test especially for Tamil medium students in government schools and selected 30 students. We roped in faculties from a Chennai-based academy to provide coaching, which was held during weekends and government holidays at a private school. For which, we had to depend on sponsors as the fee for the coaching staff was Rs 3,000 per day, and we spent around Rs 7 lakh,” district chief education officer S Shanthi told TOI. Four among the 30 students scored above the cut off mark of 45 in JEE (main).  R Arunachala Eswar of Iduvampalayam government higher secondary school; Saravanan of Kethanur government higher secondary school; Gnanamoorthi of Vellarivelli government higher secondary school; and M Yadeshwararam of Nanjappa Corporation Boys Higher Secondary School have cracked the JEE (main). S Vignesh, another student from Nanjappa Corporation Boys Higher Secondary School, also secured 50 marks without attending any coaching. Vignesh was studying in English medium.  “I didn’t really know about JEE but one of my schoolmates, M Yadeshwararam, who was part of the coaching class, informed me about it. I applied for it on the last day. But once I cleared JEE Mains, I was also included in the coaching for JEE (advanced),” said Vignesh. Yadeshwararam is the topper among the five by scoring cut off mark of 89.  He said, “Since JEE is CBSE-run exam, it was tough for us but with the coaching, we gained confidence and improved despite belonging to Tamil medium. We believe that if coaching was given to government school students, many of them would clear JEE.” “I am planning to join a private deemed university in Thanjavur to study an integrated engineering course. Though the seat will be given in merit, sources say it would cost Rs 2 lakh per year to complete the course. But my family can’t afford to bear the expenses,” said Yadeshwararam, whose father is a labourer. Shanthi said, “The department is taking steps to get sponsors for such expenses. An NGO has assured to support all five students.” “Five students from government schools clearing JEE (mains) from a district is an achievement. These students will have a chance to enroll in leading engineering institutions like the National Institute of Technology (NIT),” said Shanthi. At the same time, two government school students from Perambalur district have cleared the exam.