MUMBAI:   is planning to initiate a probe into an alleged attempt by the top executive of a leading telecom firm to receive a kidney from a poor Gujarat resident, who was presented as his nephew. State officials believe they have thwarted a potential " ", even though the applicant managed to gather all requisite documentary and medical evidence. 

  Last week, the 61-year-old executive's request was turned down by the state's organ donation authorisation committee on grounds of financial disparity and a lack of proof establishing his relationship with the prospective donor, who is in his 50s. 
 
 The directorate of health services and  , which had referred the case to the state panel, received an anonymous email alerting them about the case.
 
  Confirming it to TOI , a senior state official said the relationship between the donor and the recipient is "shrouded in mystery". "The recipient's annual remuneration is Rs 82 lakh, whereas the donor, a Bihar native who lives and works in Gujarat, earns Rs 2 lakh a year. The applicant had no photographs to prove that the prospective donor was his sister's son," the official said. "But a matching HLA report stumped us (HLA, or human leukocyte antigen, testing is done to find if the tissue types of two individuals are immunologically compatible)," the official said. KEM's head of nephrology Dr NK Hase said, "The chances of two strangers having an HLA match is one in a lakh and extremely rare." 
 
  The anonymous email said the executive was trying to "buy" the kidney for Rs 15 lakh and a job for the prospective donor's son. It added that the executive had even helped the man acquire Aadhar and PAN cards. The state official said the transplant request was rejected before the email's arrival, but the email only solidified their suspicion. 
 
  "We too pointed out economic disparity. But the potential recipient asked that just because his relatives are not financially well-off, does he not have the right to get an organ or live? Since the element of doubt remained, we referred it to the state's authorisation committee," said Jaslok CEO Dr Tarang Gianchandani. 
 
 
