 vacation is here and the youngsters having one month of frolic in hand would be swapping books and bags for bats and balls. But many, who are dissappointed over the lack of enough grounds in the city, have to play cricket on whatever little public spaces that are available.

 Cricket lovers point out that there are only five or six places with enough space to play cricket. Except   ground, where one can play multiple sports, Trichy hardly has a designated playground open for the general public. One such public space, where the youngsters sought to play cricket is the ground at   near  .
 
 S Fazuludeen, a working professional, who plays cricket there every Sunday, stated that he and his friends were left with only a few venues to play cricket in the city. "It was more like a ritual for us to form teams and play matches in different areas during the weekends, but now that many public spaces are no more available to play cricket, we only go to Mannarpuram," he said.
 
 And since most of the public spaces where youngsters play cricket are the ones where public meetings are held, even the fewer options they had have diminished. Also, the increase in the traffic has meant that only if new grounds are set up in the city will they get to play cricket without any hassle. "We play at   ground, but often we are not allowed to play there due to various reasons like public meetings, gatherings and other events," said another cricket enthusiast, T Prashanth.
 
 Lok Sabha MP P Kumar admitted that there was indeed a dearth of playgrounds in the city. He stated that he would take necessary measures on this. "Mostly, it is only Anna Stadium where everyone goes to play. But if youngsters feel that they need a playground, I would definitely take the matter forward, discuss with the district collector," he said.
 
 Though the options for playing outdoor sports is limited, there are a few avenues open for the general public to play indoor games – predominantly badminton and table tennis. Badminton courts are spread across the city including at Anna Nagar, KK Nagar and BHEL Community Hall.
 
 "When it comes to sporting avenues, Trichy has a lot but it is just that people are not aware of it," said district sports officer C Punniyamoorthy. 
 
 But, he said that it was hard to establish a playground for cricket because it required a lot of space. "Setting up a cricket ground is not an easy task. But apart from this, there are avenues for other sports where youngsters could go," he said. 
 
 
