BENGALURU: A 34-year-old   and his   bravely fended off a   from a gang of armed dacoits who had entered their residence in Ramasagara near Attibele on Wednesday night and even managed to nab one of them. Police are on the lookout for the other three who fled with two mobile phones and a chain worn by one of the brothers.

 Sudhakar Reddy, a software engineer with  , and his brother Chandan Reddy, were in the upper rooms of their duplex house when the gang entered through the front door at about 9.15pm. The siblings charged downstairs on hearing shouts from their mother, Munirathnamma.
 
 When they arrived on the ground floor, the brothers found their father, Narayana Reddy, engaged in a tussle with one of the dacoits. While two of the gang fled when they saw Sudhakar and Chandan coming towards them, the other two launched an attack on the Reddys.
 
 Suryanagar police say Narayana and Chandan suffered knife injuries in the attack and were admitted to a private hospital for treatment. A case has been registered based on a complaint from Sudhakar and an investigation is on.
 
 “We have detained the dacoit who was caught by the family,” a police officer said. “He too was injured and we got him treated by a doctor. Preliminary investigation suggests he is a member of a gang based in Tamil Nadu.” Police withheld the name of the dacoit.
 
 The dacoits barged into the house when Narayana, who works in the government veterinary department, returned home after going out to buy milk. “My husband returned with the milk and I opened the door for him,” Munirathnamma said. “The dacoits who were wearing caps and gloves were behind him. At first I we thought they were cow sellers. But, they pushed my husband and me inside the house and threatened us with knives.”
 
 Sudhakar and Chandan were alerted when they heard their mother screaming “dongolu dongolu” (Telugu for thieves) and they rushed out of their rooms. The two brothers joined the desperate struggle downstairs.
 
 Sudhakar managed to snatch the knife from one of the dacoits threatening his mother, while Chandan, who overpowered the man attacking his father, was stabbed in the thigh and also suffered injuries to his left hand. The chain which the dacoits took was his. Narayana was stabbed in the shoulder, right hand and legs.
 
 The man who had threatened their mother was nabbed and soundly thrashed. Friends were alerted and they handed the man over to the police.
 
 “The Reddys say they were speaking Telugu, Tamil and Kannada,” police said. “We have some clues based on the information provided by the dacoit in our custody. We will nab the others soon.” 
 
 
