BENGALURU: Miffed with the state leaders busy managing only day-to-day affairs of the party,   national president   on Sunday warned the leaders of dire consequences if they do not show enough muscle to play big in the assembly elections.

 Shah, who arrived in Bengaluru for a special meeting with the state BJP leaders, reportedly said: “I’m not here to sit quietly; I’m here to win Karnataka. If you cannot work hard, I will go to districts and get things done.”
 
 The leader was reportedly not satisfied with BJP legislators’ progress reports on outreach programmes in the constituencies assigned to them. Each MLA had been assigned her own constituency and one more to strengthen the party’s roots.
 
 
 
 
 In interactions with the legislators, Shah sensed a majority of them had exaggerated their work or had not visited their constituencies at all. Alluding to Uttar Pradesh, he said: “When the BJP can win a state which has a significant Muslim population, should it be difficult to win Karnataka? I have no other polls to fight in the near future; all myfocusison Karnataka.”
 
 Shah announced a 12-point programme for legislators to galvanize the party. A source said: “After reading out the 12 points, Shah told the legislators to repeat them. But none got the order right. Shah repeated the points and forced the leaders to write them down.”
 
 When some legislators pointed to confusion created by state leaders who were declaring party candidates in a few constituencies, Shah silenced them all, stating: “Irrespective of who says what on the ticket-distribution exercise, the decision of the party’s parliamentary board is final. We will decide who will contest.”
 
 Shah is expected to come to Bengaluru on January 9.
 
 Sources said Shah is working on strategies to launch an offensive against the   government by exposing its ‘misrule’.
 
 Union minister Ananth Kumar told reporters: “The meet had a one-point agenda: How to end the misrule of Siddaramaiah government, and bring the BJP back to power.”As part of this strategy, the state leadership has been mandated to prepare ‘chargesheets’ against each Congress MLA before January 16. “The BJP  , through a  , will take these chargesheets to every voter,” Kumar said. Also, the UP module of Panna Pramukh — where a party activist reaches out to 19-20 people — will be followed in Karnataka.
 
 
 
 
 The BJP leadership is said to have given its Karnataka unit the specific agenda of “heavily focusing” on communal politics and polarization of votes in the assembly elections. Referring to a discussion at the BJP meet here on Sunday, Union minister HN Ananth Kumar said: “The meeting seeks to bring an end to the anti-majoritarian Congress government in the state. The BJP has employed this strategy with success in other state elections, and will do so in Karnataka too.”
 
