GURUGRAM: Around 100 football players from Ghamroj will sit on an indefinite hunger strike from Saturday to protest the takeover of their playground by the  . The land in question has been the subject of a tussle between the department and the Ghamroj football academy, with the former saying it falls under the Aravali forest land and the footballers contending it is owned by the village panchayat.

 On March 1, TOI had reported that the forest department had removed the fences and goalposts put up on the field and planted trees there. 
 
 The players and coach alleged that politics is being played over the land, and claimed that forest minister   was involved in not giving it to the players.
 
 For the past one and a half months, the footballers have been meeting one politician after the other but to no avail. Coach   said, “Politics is being played over the  . I have met all the politicians and bureaucrats but no one has heard our plea.” He blamed   for the department’s refusal to give the land to the players.
 
 “In March, we had gone with around 500 villagers to meet the minister. He had assured us that the ground would be given to us. But he has some personal stake in the issue, because of which we are not getting this land,” Raghav said.
 
 According to the Ghamroj panchayat, the land belongs to the village. 
 
 Sarpanch Nirmala Devi said, “We have all the documents related to this land and it belongs to the village. At a mahapanchayat held in February, we had given it to the football academy as a playground. I want the kids to play football there.”
 
 On the other hand, the forest department said that the land comes under ‘protected area’ and no construction is allowed there. 
 
 “The Aravalis across NCR are defined through the May 1992 notification. Known as the ‘Aravali notification’, it says that apart from reserved forests or places already classified as ‘forest’ in government records, areas categorised as gair mumkin pahar (uncultivable hill), gair mumkin rada (foothills, pastures) and banjar beed (cultivable grassy foothills) will be treated as Aravalis. All such areas in NCR will be protected and identified as Aravalis. This football field also comes under the protected area,” said a forest official.
 
 Deepak Nanda, district forest officer said, “Some people in Ghamroj want to occupy this land forcibly. This will not be tolerated. We are ready to go to court in this matter.” The forest department had pulled down the fences and planted trees on the ground on February 28.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rao Narbir said no politics was being played over the ground. “I had tried my best to give the land to the players, but forest officials stepped in. When they (the footballers) had come to me with their plea, I had accepted their demand. But what can I do when the forest department says the land cannot be given to them? No encroachment can happen on forest land,” the forest minister said.
 
 Ghamroj has recently emerged as a budding nursery for Indian football, having produced several national-level players, including 10 who have represented different professional clubs across the country in the I-League. 
 
 Footballers said they had been playing on the ground for the last two years. National-level football player Vikas Raghav said, “The forest department wants to get control over the field with the help of politicians. This is not right, no one is considering our plight.”
 
 Vasu Kumar, another player from the village, said: “I was playing at the ground for the last one year, no one had raised any objection then. The issues started cropping up only after players from this academy began representing the state. Some politicians just don’t want the people of Ghamroj to grow.”
 
 
