PUNE: The growing demand for mushrooms has led many people to start growing their different types, especially oyster mushrooms, in small set ups in the city. According to some mushroom growers, retail orders from individuals and bulk orders from restaurants are driving sales, making mushroom farming a profitable venture. 

 Speaking to TOI, Abhishek Shelke, who started his venture recently said, “Button mushrooms and oyster mushrooms have a constant market demand. Baner restaurants are adding oyster mushrooms to their menu. Most of these mushrooms were procured from northern states or other countries as they require cooler and moist weather to grow. Seeing this, I decided to start farming oyster mushrooms.”
 
 Shelke added that he made an initial investment of only Rs15,000 to start cultivating oyster mushrooms. “I was working as a chef in Singapore and decided to start cultivating herbs like parsley in India. However, after some market research, I realized the demand for mushrooms was higher. I have a flat at Talegaon which I am currently using for the farming. A 1kg spawn of mushroom yields about 4 to 5 kgs of mushroom,” Shelke explained. 
 
 Another cultivator, Akshay   said that mushroom farming is a great business to enter. “The investment is negligible and outcome is pretty high. Oyster mushrooms are very popular in the restaurant industry. The   government also gives a 30 to 40% subsidy for mushroom farming,” he explained.
 
 Dixit, who has been farming mushrooms for the last 18 months, said there is a huge supply-demand gap. “Most mushrooms are being imported. We are planning to start a large oyster mushroom cultivation facility on the outskirts of Pune to meet the ever growing demand. We will also provide mushroom cultivation lessons and provide a buy back clause so that more people can cultivate mushrooms,” Shelke added. 
 
 Shelke said that 1kg of fresh mushrooms can fetch Rs200 to Rs350 while naturally or synthetically dried mushrooms can fetch Rs750 to Rs900 per kg. “If the dried mushroom is made into a powder and packaged properly, it can fetch between Rs1,200 to Rs1,500 per kilogram. The profit margin is over 100%,” he stated. 
 
 Speaking on the process of growing oyster mushrooms,   said, “We are growing oyster mushrooms since the last three years. We use wheat straws to start with. These are soaked in water for 10 to 12 hours followed by sterilization. After drying, we fill them in plastic bags along with spawn. After about 20 days of incubation, mycelium is formed. We then remove it from the bags and shift it for harvesting, where it is watered. The mushrooms can be harvested in about 8 days.”   said she learnt mushroom farming from a day long course at the   in Pune. “I also obtained the mushroom spawn from the agriculture college,” she added. 
 
 
