Jaisalmer: Bandh in Jaisalmer district passed off peacefully on Thursday. Members of erstwhile royal family of Jaisalmer kept the museum at Sonar Fort closed for people and tourists. People blocked road by forming human chain at Hanuman crossing. Police had made elaborate security arrangements to deal with untoward incident.

 Entire Jaisalmer district remained closed on Thursday in protest of sanjay Leela Bhansali's movie padmavat made on former Jaisalmer princely state princess Padmini. Even the erstwhile royals of Jaisalmer kept fort museum at sonar fort closed for general public and tourists. The tourists were quite disappointed on museum kept closed. The bandh was successful that people did not even get tea and petrol. There was annoyance among people on not getting petrol. People of Sarva samaj blocked Hanuman chowraha by forming human chain and expressed their protest. Police had made proper security arrangements. Teams of Karni Sena were seen patrolling in markets. A meeting was organised at Hanuman chowraha. 
 
 Similarly Barmer district was also closed. Karni Sena and people of Rajput community were seen appealing businessmen to shut their shops. Owners of two cinema halls had given in writing that they will not screen the movie. At gadra chowraha demonstration was held by burning tyres. The protest is on against padmavat movie in the entire country and in Jaisalmer the protest is getting intensified. Today all businessmen kept their establishments closed. In the morning tea and snacks shops were opened but people requested them and they too closed their shops. 
 
 Police was alert and SP Gaurav Yadav said no one will be allowed to take law in their hands. The ex royals kept the museum closed due to which tourists were quite disappointed. As per information jaisalmer royals in support of the protest had decided to keep the museum closed for two days. The museum is in the palace of Sonar fort. Yadav said jaisalmer bandh was peaceful and police arrangement has been made.
 
 
