TRICHY: There is a smile of contentment on the face of 97-year-old V   these days. From now on, the nonagenarian can attend nature’s call without worrying about others waiting in the queue as she has been provided with an individual toilet under Individual Household Latrine ( ) scheme by the   corporation. Ponnukannam has been touted as the oldest beneficiary of the scheme in the city, perhaps in the entire district. 

 Corporation sources said that Ponnukannam, through her daughter  , had applied for availing of an individual toilet under the IHHL scheme in 2017. She stayed in a century-old house at   near  , one of the oldest neighbourhoods in Trichy. A few years ago, Ponnukannam had to cede her toilet during the partition of the house which was sold subsequently. Since then, the 97-year-old had been either relying on a community toilet nearby or had been attending nature’s call in the backyard of her house. 
 
 However, with age hampering her free movement, using the public toilet had become a challenge for her. It was then that Ponnukannam applied to the city corporation under IHHL scheme 2017-2018. She was subsequently provided an individual toilet last week. “Last month, while trying to attend nature’s call in the backyard, I slipped from the steps injuring my hands. I find it easy now as the toilet has been established within the premises,” Ponnukannam told TOI. She preferred to stay alone in her house in Woraiyur with support from her daughter who lives in the city. She had refused to move out of the house as it was her ancestral place. However, Ponnukannam’s neighbours said it was her sheer perseverance that prompted her to avail of the IHHL scheme.
 
 Corporation officials said that space was available for them to construct the individual toilet in front of the house which was subsequently connected to the underground drainage system of ward number 55. On learning about Ponnukannam’s story, several residents who had so far been relying on community toilets have approached the civic body seeking individual toilets. However, space needs and other eligibility clauses such as evidence of paying house tax were required to avail of the scheme.
 
 
