CHENNAI: Three TN universities have been granted Category-I status by the  , giving them powers to launch new departments, courses, programmes, schools, centres, off-campus facilities and distance education programmes without the regulator’s approval, as per a notification by the Union ministry of human resource development on Monday. 

 With the UGC (Categorisation of Universities only) Grant of Graded Autonomy Regulation 2018, dated Feb 12, 32 universities have made the cut as Category-I institutions. Maharashtra tops the list with more than 10 universities under the premier category. 
 
 The three universities in   are the Alagappa University in Karaikudi, Sri Ramachandra Medical University in Chennai and SASTRA in Thanjavur. The notification classifies a university as Category-I if it has a   ( ) accredited score above 3.51 or has received corresponding accreditation grade or score from a reputed agency empaneled by UGC or is ranked in the top 500 of reputed world rankings such as Times Higher Education or QS. 
 
 SASTRA dean   said the top status would provide academic autonomy to deserving higher education institutions. These perks are too tempting to ignore for the state government too. State higher education secretary   said, “The state has considered grading and rankings by national organisations seriously. Many of our institutions had a good rank under the National Institutions Ranking Framework. Now, we should focus on the NAAC score.”
 
 A number of universities in the state, including University of Madras and Anna University, fall in Category-II with an NAAC score between 3.26 and 3.50, or with a corresponding accreditation grade/score from a reputed accreditation agency empaneled by the UGC. Some institutions like   missed the mark by 0.01 points.
 
 While these universities, like in Category-I, will be able to start new courses and programmes, they will be limited to two off-campus facilities every five years. They will also not be automatically eligible for grants under section 12 B.
 
 
