NEW DELHI: On Monday, the government will table the   for this fiscal year on the first day of the   session in Parliament.

 Ahead of the  , the finance ministry every year presents the economic survey which reviews the overall state of the economy in the last 12 months and highlights the policy initiatives of the government and the prospects of the economy in the short to medium term.
 
 In August last year however, the government for the first time presented a mid-term economic survey. Here is a look at the objectives that the government has met or missed since then:
 
 
 Ahead of last year's budget, the government had predicted a growth rate of 6.75 per cent to 7.5 per cent in the current financial year. However, a slowdown in the first quarter of the year meant that the mid-term survey suggested that achieving that target will be difficult. The sluggish nature of the economy can be gauged by the fact that despite snapping a five-quarter slide, the   growth ??in the second quarter (July-September) could only go up to 6.3 per cent. 
 
 In January, the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO) predicted that the annual GDP may come at a 4-year low of 6.5 per cent, dragged down by sluggish manufacturing and farm sectors and the impact of GST roll out and demonetisation. Almost all rating agencies have India's growth rate in the range of 6.5 to 6.8 per cent.
 
 
  Inflation rate, which is a marker of price rise has been a bone of contention for the government. In the mid-term survey, Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian, had said inflation was expected to remain below the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) 4 per cent target through to the end of the fiscal year. But the December retail inflation figures stood at a 17-month high of 5.1 per cent. Rising food prices and a surge in global crude oil prices have resulted in this development.
 
 
  Fiscal deficit is the difference between the government's earnings and expenditure. The Modi government had aimed to keep fiscal deficit at 3.2 per cent of the GDP, a target that it reiterated in the mid-term survey. In the months that followed, poor revenue collection from GST and added borrowings from the market raised concerns of the government running into more debt than it had expected. However, earlier this month, the government reduced its borrowings from Rs 50,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore, signalling an improvement on this front.
 
 
  In a reference to key interest rates, the August survey had stated that there was considerable scope for monetary policy easing.?? However, the RBI has had differing ideas since then. In the wake of rising inflation, the central bank has kept the lending rate at 6 per cent. In fact, the RBI and government have not been on the same page in this regard for quite some time now.
 
 
 
 
 As far as the next financial year is concerned, analysts and rating agencies have signalled a recovery in the economy. Various sources have predicted ?the growth rate in a range of 7 per cent to 7.5 per cent. In November the factory output grew at 17-month high pace of 8.4 per cent, indicating green shoots. The government and analysts alike have opined that the roll out of GST has more or less overcome the teething troubles and will start bearing fruits. 
 
 
