BENGALURU: The   ( ) is actively considering not buying new diesel buses in favour of the economically viable option of leasing  .

 Recently, Hyderabad-based Goldstone Infratech Limited, quoting Rs 37.50 per km to operate 150 electric buses in Bengaluru, emerged as the lowest bidder. The operational cost of an electric AC bus, after including cost of power, conductors’s salary and GST, would be between Rs 60 and Rs 63 per km, much lower than the Rs 75 to Rs 76 per km for a Volvo AC diesel bus.
 
 Similarly, for non-AC electric buses, Goldstone has quoted Rs 24.50 per km, which means the operational cost would be in the range of Rs 39.50 to Rs 41, while for a normal diesel bus it’s Rs 52 per km.
 
 The private operator will provide buses — 31- and 42-seat configurations — along with drivers and operate on routes provided by BMTC for 10 years, while the corporation will only deploy conductors for fare collection. 
 
 The BMTC is now considering doing away with diesel buses completely, given that there is also a   (NGT) stay on the corporation purchasing more such buses. BMTC managing director V Ponnuraj said: “This option seems both economically viable and environmentally better.”
 
 Of the proposed 150 electric buses, 80 buses — 40 AC and 40 non-AC — will be inducted in the first phase in the next six months, and the remainder later.
 
 “We’ve met companies to get a fair deal and expect the operational cost of electric buses could further come down once the price of battery reduces and if we place bids for more buses,” Ponnuraj said, adding that BMTC is also expecting e-buses to get GST exemption and higher financial support from the Centre.
 
 BMTC currently has 6,400 diesel buses and once the electric bus plan materializes, it’ll be the first state-run bus corporation in the country to operate a large fleet of electric buses.
 
 Goldstone Infratech Limited has a technical collaboration with Chinese company BYD Auto Industry Co Limited, one of the world’s largest manufacturers. Sources say Goldstone is also mulling on setting up a 100-acre manufacturing plant in Bidar.
 
 
