PUNE: For senior citizens, the fall in bank interest rates over the years has been depressing. But hope sprang with the   2018 focussing on the welfare of the elderly. 

 From the exemption of interest income to raising the limit of deduction for health insurance, the budget gave overall concessions of around Rs 4,000 crore in extra tax benefit for them.
 
 Senior citizens, who continue to uphold Pune’s legacy as a pensioners’ paradise, also agreed with finance minister   about “a life with dignity is a right of every individual”. 
 
 Sukhdev Singh  , 82, an army veteran and former employee of Hindustan Aeronautics, was on his evening walk at   in  , as were others who were out exercising and socialising. Their discussions were about the interest income from banks and post offices. “We are happy about the increase in the interest income which would give those of us in the 30% income tax bracket about Rs 12,000 more a year in hand,” one of them said. 
 
 Garewal was indifferent to the budget proposals, especially the sops for senior citizens.“I just learned about his announcements on exemption of taxes on interest income. If one is suffering from diseases, then it’s good for them. But that covers only some people. Other steps should have been taken for senior citizens,” Garewal said. He is “generally favourably disposed” towards the current government.
 
 The minister did not address the prices of essentials,  , a former   employee, said. “All prices have gone up due to taxes and cesses. Everything, from medicines to food items, is costly. There were no announcements about jobs creation,” he added. 
 
 He said Jaitley announced LPG and electricity schemes for the poor and also cut taxes for the rich. “The money will come by taxing the middle class by imposing all those cesses. So it’s not a balanced budget,” he said.
 
 Supriya Nadgir, 68, a retired public employee, said the new long term capital gains tax was an annoyance. “ Jaitley has imposed a long term capital gains tax on equities. Many senior citizens have acquired a corpus by investing in SIPs. He should have at least exempted senior citizens’ SIPs from that tax. Making senior citizens file IT returns every year is annoying and an added expense.” 
 
 She was piqued by the “exploitation” of the salaried class in the budget. “Jaitley said the salaried paid more in income tax than business owners. So why did he make the salaried class suffer more? No changes to tax slabs, and now the new cess and capital gains tax, it seems unfair,” she said.
 
 
