NEW DELHI: A consortium of Jet Airways, Air France-KLM and   is understood to have expressed interest in the disinvestment of  , according to sources. 

  Moving ahead with the strategic disinvestment of loss-making Air India, the government will soon invite expression of interest (EoI) from the bidders. 
 
  Against this backdrop, sources said a consortium of three full services, including Jet Airways, is keen to put in their bid for the national carrier . 
 
 When contacted, a Jet Airways spokesperson said the airline would not like to comment on speculation. Queries sent to Air France-KLM and Delta remained unanswered.
 
  Jet Airways' possible bid for Air India by way of a consortium also comes less than four months after the Naresh Goyal-led airline enhanced the cooperation agreement with the  . Interestingly, Jet Airways CEO Vinay Dube had a decade-long career at Delta Air Lines before joining the Indian carrier last year. Immediately before coming to Jet Airways, he was senior VP (Asia Pacific) at the American airline. 
 
 Air France-KLM and its partners Delta and Alitalia operate the largest transatlantic joint-venture with over 270 daily flights. Though Air India is saddled with huge debt, acquiring the airline can help boost the acquirer in terms of footprint and bilateral rights.
 
 While a group of ministers are still finalising the contours of the Air India stake sale, the civil aviation ministry has so far said that officially it has received EoI from at least no-frills carrier IndiGo and an unidentified foreign airline.
 
 The enhanced partnership between Jet Airways and Air France-KLM Group would help in boosting connectivity between 106 European cities and 44 domestic destinations. At that time, Naresh Goyal had said he would speak to the group chairmen of Air France-KLM and Delta to explore the possibility of deepening this cooperation through joint purchase of fuel and closer tie-ups in engineering and maintenance all of which would be revenue accretive.
 
 The government expects to complete the privatization of Air India this year and is likely to put up for sale as four different entities. 
 
 
