NEW DELHI: Former finance minister   on Wednesday claimed that it is possible to reduce the prices of petrol by Rs 25 per litre and the Central government is cheating the people by cutting fuel prices by Rs 1 or 2 per litre of petrol.

 
  The senior Congress leader said that with the fall in crude oil prices, it is possible to slash the petrol prices by Rs 15 per litre. He further added that the government can also cut the additional tax of Rs 10 per litre on petrol. Thus reducing the prices of petrol by Rs 25 per litre.
 
  “Central government saves Rs 15 on every litre of petrol due to fall in crude oil prices. Central government puts additional tax of Rs 10 on every litre of petrol,” he said in a tweet.
 
  
  
 “It is possible to cut up to Rs 25 per litre, but the government will not. They will cheat the people by cutting price by Rs 1 or 2 per litre of petrol,” he added.
 
  The recent hike in prices of petrol and diesel has triggered public outrage in various parts of the country.
 
  Yesterday, following furore over the increase in prices of petrol and diesel in the country, Union minister of state for finance Shiv Pratap Shukla said that hike is a result of global crude oil price increase and US sanctions on Iran.
 
  “The government has not failed in controlling the prices of petrol and diesel but it's due to steep rise in crude prices in international market and breaking of US-Iran pact, which has affected not only India but other countries as well,” Shukla told reporters.
 
  He, however, said the government was trying “to find a way out to bring down the prices”.
 
  Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan has also suggested bringing petrol under the GST to control prices but imposing the GST will not be possible until a general consensus is drawn by GST council, he said.
 
  president   said that the government officials are taking the issue of   seriously and a solution to the problem would be reached in the next couple of days.
 
  Addressing a press conference, Shah responded to the issue of fuel price hike by saying the Centre was deliberating on the issue.
 
  “The government is taking the matter of oil prices seriously. Petroleum minister will have a meeting with the officials of the oil companies. We are trying to work out a formula to reduce the prices in the next three to four days.”
 
