CHENNAI: The DMK has sacked 154 party functionaries in   assembly constituency, holding them responsible for the party’s humiliating loss in the December 21 bypoll. Party candidate N Marudhu Ganesh lost his deposit in the bypoll, in which rebel   leader and independent candidate T T V Dhinakaran emerged victorious.

 Soon after the shock defeat, the DMK appointed a three-member committee under party’s chief whip R Sakkarapani to analyse the reasons behind the loss. The committee, which had advocates R   and  , was asked to submit a report by Sunday. It submitted its report to working president   in the morning. The party took the action against some functionaries after a meeting of senior party leaders in the headquarters.
 
 "The party has decided to scrap 14 party divisions in the constituency. A total of 154 functionaries have been expelled from the party,” said a senior DMK leader not willing to be named.
 
 “The committee blamed the functionaries of not working hard. Some were even lethargic. There was also internal squabbles among the functionaries due to which we lost the byelection,” said the party leader.
 
 The party division is based on the corporation wards. Each corporation ward is divided into smaller divisions.
 
 Each party division has 11 functionaries including a presidium chief, a secretary, three deputy secretaries, a treasurer and five division representatives. “The committee found that the functionaries in these 14 divisions had not worked hard. Some of them did not even campaign for the party candidate in their areas,” said the leader.
 
 Sources told TOI that party in the coming days may take some action against a few local party leaders. “The party headquarters has taken a decision to sideline some senior leaders in the party who were given responsibility in R K Nagar before the byelection,” said the leader.
 
 Though DMK has won only twice at RK Nagar (1989 and 1996), since 1977 when the constituency was formed, the party was confident of winning this byelection as the AIADMK votes were expected to be split between the AIADMK and Dhinakaran. But the DMK not only lost the election, but also the deposit.
 
