NEW DELHI: Don’t try to circumvent the law, was the message from the Delhi high court to the Delhi assembly on Thursday, while hearing the plea of chief secretary  .

 Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the assembly committee, which has issued notice to the top bureaucrat, not to insist on his appearance and said the panel’s move seemed to be an attempt to circumvent the process of law.
 
 “After giving a statement on March 5, the complainant (Q&R Committee) immediately issued notice to the chief secretary asking him to appear before it on Thursday. What was the urgency for the notice? Ask your client not to do this. Tell your client that it seems as if you are trying to circumvent the process of law. Wait for the outcome of the main petition pending in the high court,” Justice Shakdher told the assembly counsel.
 
 The court was hearing a plea by Anshu Prakash challenging the assembly’s Question and Reference (Q&R) committee notice asking him to appear to examine issues relating to Delhi Nagrik Sahkari Bank Ltd.
 
 Justice Shakdher pointed out that the notice to the chief secretary came soon after the committee assured the HC on March 5 that it won’t proceed in the matter till further orders.
 
 “As far as the chief secretary is concerned, you withdraw this notice and do whatever has to be done,” the court said, suggesting to the committee to withdraw the March 6 notice.
 
 However, advocate Manish Vashisht, appearing for the committee, said the   cannot withdraw the notice as it has been issued against two other officers as well, but assured the court that it won’t insist on personal appearance of the chief secretary.
 
 Senior advocate  , appearing for Prakash, argued it was a clear case of attempt to browbeat and intimidate his client, adding that the notice amounts to overreaching the process of law and was actually an act of contempt of court. Jain said the chief secretary is the executive head of the state and the assembly is indulging in “sheer vendetta”.
 
 Prakash was earlier served a notice by the privileges committee for skipping a meeting on February 20, which was scheduled a day after he was allegedly assaulted by two   MLAs — Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, whose judicial   was extended by 14 days on Thursday.
 
 
