NEW DELHI: In a bid to break the logjam over its insistence that the 'national security' consideration be retained as a ground for rejecting a candidate for judicial appointment, the Centre has suggested that such details can be shared with the Chief Justice of India but not the entire collegium.

 The government is ready to reveal the relevant 'material' for rejecting a candidate for judgeship of the   and high courts on national security grounds to the CJI with the proviso that this be never disclosed in public domain.
 
 In order to get the Memorandum of Procedure (MoP) for appointment of judges to the   and HCs approved by the apex court collegium, the government has indicated that it is ready to negotiate on the contentious issue. The revised MoP is pending with the SC collegium since August last year and figured in the recent differences between four most senior judges and the CJI.
 
 The government conveyed its opinion to the CJI through a letter to the secretary general of the apex court a few months ago which said that while rejecting any recommendation of the collegium on national security grounds, the reasons can be disclosed to the CJI.
 
 The collegium was united in rejecting the draft MoP proposed by the government for future appointments with an overriding clause empowering the executive to reject any recommendation on grounds of nation security, without disclosing the same to the selection panel of senior judges.
 
 The government once again argued that it was urging discretion with regard to the national security clause for the "institutional credibility and the reputation of concerned recomendee."
 
 "It is in the view of the government that every sensitive information though available otherwise should not be brought on record in relation to the file of recomendee," the government said and added that national security was a valid ground but if 'sensitive information' remained on record, "it will continue to haunt him (the candidate) during his whole career".
 
 On December 16, 2015, the SC constitution bench, which had earlier struck down the  , had asked the government to draft a new MoP factoring in eligibility criteria, transparency in appointment process, a secretariat, complaint mechanism and any other matter considered appropriate.
 
 Accordingly, the first draft MoP was sent to the CJI on March 22, 2016. The then CJI consulted the collegium and returned the draft on May 25 suggesting modifications. A second draft was sent with some modifications on August 3, 2016. After a year, on August 13, 2017, the CJI again returned the draft rejecting certain contentious issues such as the overriding clause of national security.
 
 The government later reiterated its draft MoP and reminded the CJI of the observations of an SC bench which had in suo motu contempt proceedings against then Calcutta HC judge Justice C S Karnan highlighted lacuna in the present collegium system and sought greater accountability.
 
 
