CHANDIGARH: The NHAI has started issuing notices to   operating on highways without taking prior permission in accordance with the directions of the   and   high court. 

 The project implementation unit, Ambala, of the NHAI has begun the process to serve the notice after identifying 90 such   vends on NH-44 (old NH-1) from Panipat to Jalandhar. The move has come in response to a notice issued by the Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday, seeking response from the NHAI regarding non-compliance of HC orders.
 
 In its March 27 orders, the HC had clarified that no liquor vends, even those within MC area but beyond the town, shall be allowed to operate without access permission from the NHAI. The HC was of the view that as per the Control of National Highways (Land and Traffic) Act, 2002, it would be essential that the permission for occupying lands falling outside municipal limits of the towns, cities and villages but falling on the highway would be required to be sought from the NHAI administration.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing before the HC on Tuesday, counsel for the NHAI said that in compliance with the HC directions, the NHAI was in the process of removing liquor vends and advertisement boards, hoardings, signages and decorative lights used for advertisement of liquor sale on highway stretches. It was further stated that most of the liquor shops have been issued notices for removal from the places that are distracting highway users.
 
 After hearing the reply from the project implementation unit, Ambala, a division bench headed by Justice A K Mittal adjourned the case for further hearing on April 30. Other similar units of the NHAI are yet to respond to the matter.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of an application filed by a Chandigarh-based NGO Arrive Safe through its president Harman Sidhu. The latter has been arguing before the HC that to see the compliance of the March 27 orders, he had visited many places and was disturbed to see that the directions given in the judgment had not been followed. In support of his contentions, he had also attached several photographs clicked by him where liquor vends were operating in complete violation of the HC orders. His main argument was that these vends were operating without any permission from the NHAI.
 
 
