The story of her life, and that of the tele-serial she is acting as the lead in,  , run parallel for actress Gayathri Raja.   aka PP (her character’s name in the serial) faces several issues because she’s short and dark. And in real life, too, Gayathri, who started off acting in films, faced several rejections because of her skin colour. But things have changed for the young actress, for, she’s now confident about her complexion. 

 This Chennai girl, who hails from a lower middle-class family, says that she’s living her dream right now. “My father is an auto driver and my mother passed away recently. But my parents always wanted to get me educated and never stopped me from achieving my dreams. I did my Bachelor in Mathematics, from Dr MGR Janaki College for Women. I used to be a part of the cultural activities in my college and have even been a part of several theatre plays. My friends always used to say that I act very well. After college, I wanted to try my luck in acting. I had no idea how to go about it or find contacts. Later, I requested my neighbour, who works as a cameraman in TV serials, to help me with a few contacts. I got an opportunity to act first in Vani Rani, where I did a small role. Later, I contacted some people in the film industry and gave several auditions. I got to play character roles in films like Inimey Ippadithan (as Ashna’s friend), Marudhu (Soori’s pair), Madras (appears in the song Enga Ooru Madras), and most recently, in Magalir Mattum. But I was only getting small roles. I even underwent a weight-loss programme, thinking that I would get a nice role in films. In fact, the story of Perazhagi and the story of my life is quite similar. I have been rejected in films many a time, owing to my dark complexion. I was supposed to act in two of Vijay Sethupathi’s films, but got rejected because of my ‘colour’. They even tell me that I act very well, but later, rejected saying that I am not ‘fair enough’ to play that part. I was even thinking of doing a skin lightening treatment. Of course, later I knew that this was a horrible decision. I had enough of getting rejected based on my skin tone and decided not to act anymore.”
 
 And so, Gayathri took a break from acting for over a year and decided to study again. It was then she got an offer to play the lead in the serial. She says, “I decided to do my Chartered Accountancy. It was then I got a call from the Perazhagi team. They wanted to do it as a pilot film and then turn it into a serial. They approached me saying that I would play the lead role. I wasn’t in the right frame of mind as I was under the impression that they, too, will take me for the pilot film and again reject me for the serial. But since my classes hadn’t started, I thought I will give it one last shot. I went for the audition, got selected, and shot for the film. The team was happy with my performance and gave it to the channel for approval. Everyone liked it and the team called me saying that I was confirmed for the role. I didn’t take it seriously as I didn’t want to risk my career again for acting. I was convinced that they would replace me. But the team spoke to me and convinced that it will give me a good break. Having seen failures for four years, this was a big risk for me. But my family and friends asked me to give it a try. Now, I feel this is the best decision that I took.”
 
 Gayathri says that her role is sure to instill self-confidence in girls who worry about their body image. “I play a short, dark girl. PP gets bullied by everyone around her and this demotivates her. But she gains self-confidence and is on the path to becoming a successful woman. There are several instances in the serial that is sure to motivate young girls who have poor self-esteem and I want to thank my writer Pon Ilango sir, director Vaidhy Somasundaram and my producer   sir for giving me the chance to be myself, sans makeup and all. Usually, in films, they apply makeup to show the stars as being fairer than they are in real life. Here, they gave me the liberty to just be, and play the part in a natural manner,” she says. Gayathri says that playing this part was never a challenge. “I didn’t try hard to act as the character is somewhat similar to what I am. Though I got to act in films, no one recognised me. Today, everyone fondly calls me ‘PP’ because of the reach of the serial. I don’t think even a film would have given me the fame that I have today.”
 
 But does she regret not being able to do films? “Not at all. Like I mentioned, I am closer to the audience now,” she says. With many actors in the industry who still get to play lead roles despite being dark, does she feel it’s unfair for heroines like her to face rejection on the basis of skin colour? “Oh yes! I have had so many people who wonder how I am getting to play a lead role in this serial. So, imagine how it will be in films! People here still have that mindset that heroines should be fair. I got rejected even for roles as the hero’s sister because I am not light-skinned. I used to get hurt, but not anymore. Audiences have accepted my skin tone, but the industry people haven’t. My story should inspire people to be confident about their skin tone.” 
 
 
