NEW DELHI: A day after Team India’s defeat in Centurion, which cost them the three-Test series, the team management has asked for two net bowlers to be flown over from India. It is learnt that Delhi pacer   and Mumbai’s pace spearhead   have been asked to leave for South Africa on Saturday. Thakur is also a part of the ODI squad which will join the team soon.

 
 
 
 
 India are scheduled to play the last Test in Johannesburg from January 24. This last-minute arrangement highlights the desperation in the Indian camp, which has seen frequent chopping and changing in the squad. With the two pacers slated to reach Johannesburg on Sunday, they will get just two days to bowl in the nets before the last Test.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 The Indian team management has complained that the South African authorities have deprived them of quality net bowlers. “The team communicated to the selectors that they were not provided the help of quality net bowlers in South Africa. Hence, the arrangement has been made after the match,” a top BCCI official told TOI. “There may be just one Test left but the team doesn’t want to leave any stone unturned to better its performance,” the source reasoned.
 
 Preparation was always a concern for the team due to the cramped international schedule leading to this high-profile series. At the onset of the tour, the team had carried three fast bowlers - Mohammed Siraj, Ankit Rajpoot and Basil Thampi - to bowl in the nets. Saini, on Gautam Gambhir’s insistence, opted to play the Ranji Trophy semifinal and final instead of travelling to South Africa as a net bowler. Interestingly, all three pacers were sent back once the first Test started in Cape Town on January 5. With none of them being retained by their IPL franchises, the pacers took part in the zonal stage of the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 meet.
 
 “The decision to send fresh net bowlers was mulled for a week. But the team management insisted on having its own bowlers. Thakur will stay over for the ODIs. As for Saini, his growth has been impressive and the selectors and the team management want to have a look at him in the nets,” the BCCI official said.
 
