LUDHIANA: An   has been lodged at the   police station here on Thursday against an allegedly   BS  , who is working as a gerontologist in Arzoo Hospital in   in Ludhiana district, about 22km from the city.

 The truth about the ‘fake’ doctor came to light when another doctor who runs a private hospital — Dr   — enquired about Gill’s registration number from the   (PMC) after he was being promoted by Arzoo Hospital as an AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences) Delhi graduate, and a   medalist to boot. Dr Gurjit received a shock when the PMC told him no such doctor was registered with them, and Gill was using a ‘fake’ PMC registration number to carry out his activities.
 
 Dr Gurjit’s suspicions about the so-called doctor were first raised in March 2017 by the latter’s credentials, as he himself was an AIIMS graduate, and had never heard of BS Gill. After Dr Gurjit confirmed from his seniors and professors at AIIMS that nobody by the name of BS Gill had passed out of AIIMS, his suspicions about the ‘quack’ only got strengthened. He said: “To compete with me, Arzoo Hospital had appointed a lab technician (BS Gill) as a gerontologist sometime in 2016, and flaunted him as a gold medalist from AIIMS. I asked my seniors and professors about him, and everybody told me no such person had passed out from there. I was also asked to write a letter to dean Academics, and he confirmed the same to me. Actually, someone had come to my hospital and told me that Gill was earlier working as a lab technician in CMCH (  and Hospital).” 
 
 He added: “After I heard about that, I wrote a letter to all medical colleges in which he had claimed to have studied, and they confirmed about his fake degrees. Not only this, he also had a fake registration number of PMC. I even went there and got a letter from them claiming he was not even registered with them, and neither did he have an MBBS degree. I had been enquiring about this fake doctor from many authorities, including SMO Payal, civil surgeon, and various health officials, but finally with the support of Indian Medical Association (IMA), and a letter from PMC, SSP Khanna instructed Payal police station to register an FIR against Gill.” 
 
 Dr Gurjit further added: “Gill has been promoting himself that he was practising in Rara Sahib, Barnala, Bathinda, and  , putting the lives of so many people at risk.” Kamaljit Singh, night munshi at Payal police station added: “An FIR has been lodged against BS Gill for showing fake degrees under sections 420, 467, 468, and 471 of the IPC, and Section 15 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956.” Former PMC president Dr GS Grewal said: “It is high time we frame new laws against such people who are practising quackery and putting the lives of so many people at risk. Strict action should be taken against them.” IMA president Dr Avinash Jindal said: “Such doctors should be boycotted, and strict action taken against them.” 
 
 
