Trichy: City Corporation on Wednesday appointed television personality Gobinath as the sixth Swachh ambassador. However, this decision did not go down well with the people of Trichy who said that enough awareness drives had been conducted and it was time to act tough against the violators instead of spending money on ambassadors.

 Corporation had appointed five ambassadors for Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) since September 2017 including music composer James Vasanthan, differently abled chess player Jennitha Anto and ISRO scientist Myilswami Annadurai, whose role is to spread behavioural change among the locals. Apart from the five Swachh ambassadors nominated by the civic body, corporation appointed television personality Gobinath as the recent most Swachh ambassador and also conducted a meeting. But, this move has irked several people. “People have changed to an extent and they are willing to segregate the waste at source. Instead of penalizing those who fail to oblige and to increase the waste collection activities further, corporation is spending lavishly on Swachh ambassadors,” said M Sekaran, president of federation of consumer service organisations. The head of the consumer organisation also claimed that stray dogs menace is increasing in the city which could be equally focused on by the civic body to ensure safety of residents.
 
 Echoing a similar view, H Ghouse Baig, secretary, consumer protection council Ponmalai branch said, “Other civic issues like overflowing sewage lines were not emphasized upon equally by Trichy Corporation. If five Swachh ambassadors are not enough to create an impact on solid waste management, what is the point of appointing another ambassador?”
 
 Consumer service organisations in unison mentioned that one Swachh ambassador would be more than enough to conduct awareness meetings. “Public money should not be spent for promotional activities involving the ambassadors even for their travel expenses. Instead of spending money like this, corporation can provide dustbins at required places,” S Pushpavanam, secretary of consumer protection council. Reacting to the public outcry against Swachh ambassadors, Trichy Corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said, “Still awareness is needed among public to segregate the waste at source. We are not spending much for such awareness drives involving ambassadors.”
 
 
