She trots in royally, the silver medal shining on her neck. “Milla sit,’ instructs one of her handlers, Mohan Kumar P R, and she sits obediently, in a fraction of a second, without any airs of being the pride of  . The fawn coloured Labrador Retriever recently won for God’s Own Country a silver medal at the tracker event at the  , held in Tamil Nadu from February 24 to 28. Instructing her to ‘stay’, Mohan Kumar tells us, “She won second place, and the achievement comes for the State after a gap of 27 years. There were a total of 35 trained dogs, representing various states and semi-army units of India. Bella, another of our dogs, came fifth in the explosive sniffer event.”
 
 Four-year-old Milla participated in seven events – Basic obedience, Refusal of food, Hurdles over 3 feet height, Seek and find, Tracking, Scent identification and Scent discrimination. Milla missed the gold medal as she didn’t participate in the hurdles event. “She had a ligament injury on her leg, and so we don’t make her jump. If she had participated in it, she would definitely have bagged the gold medal. In most of the other events, she has scored full marks,” says Dog Squad Officer, Assistant sub-inspector M B Mohanan. The gold medal went to a dog from Delhi Police who scored 226 marks, while Milla had 210 marks without participating in the hurdles.
 
 
  
  
 There were 98 dogs in the Basic Obedience test in which Milla gave the best performance, scoring 21 out of 25 marks. “Every dog will have two handlers and the dog will obey only their commands. They will not eat food served by others. The Refusal of Food session saw a tight competition. Milla and the rest of the contestants were kept in a room and served various kinds of food by 12 different people. Milla scored full marks in it,” explains Viju Nair, the other handler of Milla.
 
 Milla entered the dog squad when she was three months old, and underwent nine months’ training at The Kerala Police academy to become a tracker dog. “The daily practice starts at 7 am and goes on till 8.30 am, the session repeats in the evening. We have six dogs in our dog squad; one tracker dog - Milla, three explosive sniffer dogs and two urban patrolling dogs. They are all given three months’ basic obedience training and later training in what they are going to specialise in, like tracking or sniffing. The training will be stricter than what is being given to police,” ASI Mohanan explains. A narcotic detection dog is currently undergoing training at the Kerala Police Academy (KPA).
 
 The dogs are only fed milk and premium dog food. “As it is summer, we give them half a kilogram of watermelon every day. We avoid meat and other raw foods as there are chances of them contracting diseases.”
 
  
  
 
 According to ASI Mohanan, Milla and Bella, a black Labrador, have won a remarkable victory for the Kerala Police. “It was 27 years back that we won a similar medal, by the dog squad from Kannur. We used to participate every year but would return sans medals. The competition is tight. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Border Security Force (BSF) have exclusive dog training academies. Our Milla and Bella won competing with their dogs! So, even the fifth place is a great achievement,” he says. While Milla tracks humans, Bella goes on VIP duty and bomb threats. “Bella’s is a zero rest job,” say her trainers Madhuraj and Mohanan OP. 
 
 The team gives all credit for the victory to DGP Lokanath Behera. “We were given eight months’ training at the Thrissur Kerala Police Academy after the dogs came first in the State duty meet. India’s best police team is from Kerala but our police force often fail to win at the duty meets, so the DGP asked to conduct the meet a bit early and give training to winners who would be participating in the National meet,” says ASI Mohanan.
 
  
  
 
 Milla so far has been part of more than 70 police investigations and has helped crack many cases. “The latest was a murder after rape attempt, which happened in Mattancherry. Milla intelligently tracked the culprit who was the watchman of the house, and provided the leads for us. Another was a theft which happened in Cochin College. She identified the tool and led the forensic department and finger print team,” says her handler Mohan Kumar.
 
 She has also added twists to case investigations. “There was an ATM robbery attempt at Kakkanad. We concluded that only one person was involved in it and were in search of him. But she took us to his home and also found that the man had killed his partner in a conspiracy and hidden him under the cot,” says Viju, as he rewards Milla with her biscuits. “It is a must to give them rewards - be it appreciation or food. We pat them and say ‘good girl or boy’ or we give them tidbits like biscuits. That’s the only return they get,” Mohan Kumar smiles.
 
  
 
