GHAZIABAD: A section of residents has approached the   seeking an inquiry into the process adopted by officials in   to identify 13 areas for implementing amended building bylaws.

 The GDA had selected the areas after an order pertaining to the amendment of building bylaws exclusively for Ghaziabad was issued in 2014 by the UP housing department. According to the order, people could build four floors and stilt parking lot if they owned plots measuring between 112 and 2,000sqm. The plot owners were required to pay 10% of the floor area ratio (FAR), according to the prevailing circle rates.
 
 The fees were meant to undertake expansion and augmentation of civic infrastructure, including sewer lines, water pipelines, roads and electricity cables. Santosh Yadav, who was the then vice-chairperson of GDA, had said the amended bylaws were meant to develop residential areas in Ghaziabad on a par with those in Delhi.
 
 A seven-member panel formed by Yadav had identified certain sectors and blocks in nine colonies. Eight of these colonies, including Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Shalimar Garden, Govindpuram and Rajendra Nagar, were approved by the GDA in January 2015 for implementing the bylaws. Another five colonies, including Vaishali, Brij Vihar and Lajpat Nagar, were added to this list by the GDA in April 2015.
 
 A former government official and Chander Nagar resident, Manjit Chawla, filed a series of RTI queries with the GDA, demanding clarity on the process adopted to select the colonies. Chander Nagar had not been included by GDA on its list. The RTI replies revealed that a recommendation from then GDA chief engineer VK Goyal in April 2014 had led to the selection of the areas for implementing the bylaws.
 
 “The GDA did not care to provide the basis on which the additional five colonies were selected. There was a complete lack of transparency. Moreover, no new colonies have been added to the list after a government order was issued in June 2016 amending the building bylaws for entire UP,” said Chawla.
 
 The UP government had in June 2016 allowed the construction of stilt parking and three floors on plot sizes varying between 150 and 300sqm. Four floors are allowed along with stilt parking for plots measuring between 300 and 2,000sqm.
 
 The residents have appealed for an inquiry to GDA chairman Prabhat Kumar and vice-chairperson  . “We will examine the details of the procedure adopted for selecting the colonies for implementing the amended bylaws,” Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 
