KOLKATA: A maiden experiment by Kolkata Police and   School authorities to clear the snarl that clogs traffic on Syed Amir Ali Avenue and   before school begins and after it ends by introducing staggered school timing for different classes got off to a positive start with parents responding to the call on the first day after winter break.

 The school had introduced staggered dispersal earlier but the timings were tweaked further to enable police maintain normal traffic flow on the arterial road between   and Park Circus. Modern High is also working on the app that will facilitate car-pooling among students.
 
 Though police are happy with the experiment on day one, the real test will begin when five other schools in the vicinity reopen. “If we can iron out the traffic bottlenecks during dispersal of the two La Martiniere Schools, St John’s Diocesan, Army Public School and Kendriya Vidyalaya, it will solve the traffic woes in the area to a great extent,” an officer said.
 
 Parents like Dr Dibyendu Dutta, whose daughter studies in Class VI, were happy that the school and police were trying to ease the jam. 
 
 “Traffic flow was smoother. If everyone cooperates and remains disciplined, it won’t be difficult to maintain the success,” he said.
 
 On Wednesday, cars were parked in a single file on Syed Amir Ali Avenue. Regular traffic moved unhindered on the Park Circus-bound flank. The tail of vehicles on Gurusaday Dutta Road barely reached the BITM main gate. 
 
  
  Police said several factors had helped maintain normal traffic flow. 
 
 “We stopped the automatic signal system and switched to manual. We have asked all cars that arrive to pick up students to follow rules. Up to three cars will be allowed to come up to the gate and pick up students. If the student is delayed, the car has to move on towards Quest Mall and park somewhere ahead or make a U-turn and then return for another attempt to pick up the student,” a traffic sergeant said, adding that additional officers were also keeping a watch on lane discipline.
 
 
