HYDERABAD: Muslim leaders have welcomed the Centre’s decision to do away with Haj subsidy from this year, but demanded the   be given a free hand to call for international tenders and to award contract to the lowest bidding airlines to ferry pilgrims to Saudi Arabia.

 Muslim leaders have also demanded that the Centre utilise money saved from the Haj subsidy on education of Muslim girls. They said that since Haj is obligatory only on Muslims, who have financial and other resources to undertake the journey, the withdrawal of subsidy would not matter. However, they felt that the so-called subsidy was introduced only to help  , which enjoys a monopoly over ferrying about 1.5 lakh (now quota has been increased to 1.75 lakh) pilgrims to Saudi Arabia. Air fares are simply jacked up during the season.
 
 MIM president  , while welcoming the withdrawal of the subsidy, challenged the Modi government “to walk the talk by allocating Rs 2,000 crore for Muslim girls’ scholarships”. Criticising the   and the RSS for describing Haj subsidy as “appeasement of Muslims”, Owaisi wondered whether the BJP government at the Centre would bring a Bill in Parliament to remove Article 290A of Constitution. “Would the BJP tell the Yogi government to stop Rs 800 crore for pilgrimage to Ayodhya, Kashi and Mathura and Rs 1.5 lakh each to Manasarovar yatri towards subsidy,” he said.
 
 Jamaat-e-Islami Hind president (  and Odisha)   said the subsidy only helped compensate loss-making Air India. “There should be open bids and airlines that bid the lowest should be awarded contract,” he said. Journalist Fazil Hussain Parvez said if Air India’s monopoly is removed pilgrims will save a lot.
 
 Not all stakeholders were happy, NSUI national secretary   called move “another act against Muslims”. He said, “It will be a serious setback for underprivileged Muslims.” MESCO honorary secretary Fakruddin Mohammad said subsidy should be used for better facilities for pilgrims. Salarjung Museum board member Syed   said subsidy should empower Muslim girls.
 
 
