GURUGRAM:   on Thursday carried out a   in the protected areas around Indian Air Force ( )   in the city but had to stop it midway owing to stiff opposition from local residents. As four junior engineers along with MCG officials launched the drive in an area close to Old Gaushala Road,   started pelting stones at them.

 An MCG official told TOI that the civic officials were not provided police protection even though they had asked for forces. He confirmed that none of the officials sustained injuries in the melee.
 
 “By the time residents in the area started agitation, we had demolished six properties and sealed two buildings. They later started pelting stones at us,” said the MCG official, adding that they had to stop the drive and vacate the area to save themselves. This is not the first time MCG officials have faced opposition during demolition drives in restricted areas around the ammunition depot.
 
 MCG joint commissioner Vivek Kalia, however, said the corporation went ahead with the demolition plan as it was relatively “a smaller drive” that those conducted earlier. “Police supported us when we carried out such operations in the past. In future, we will make sure that we don’t carry out any demolition drive in the absence of police force,” he said.
 
 Locals protested demolition attempt by MCG officials even in the presence of a force of 500 policemen on Monday. “However, due to strong police presence, villagers didn’t resort to violence,” said the official. Last month also, a demolition team faced strong opposition from residents in the area.
 
 A few MCG officials on condition of anonymity said they do not get adequate force when they go for demolition drives some times. “We ask for 500 cops, but are provided with 100 cops most times, and this makes it difficult for us to carry out the operation,” an official said.
 
 The MCG has drawn up a three-month-long demolition drive following an order from the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 In the last one month, around 50 properties were either demolished or sealed in the restricted zone around the ammunition depot. There are around 14,000 properties within the 900-metre area around the depot, and there are around 6,000 properties within the 300-metre area around it.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon to issue notices to those who built illegal buildings within 300-metre area around the ammunition depot.
 
 
