Though regular movie-goers were disappointed after the back-to-back hike in movie ticket rates in a span of a few months, a   ( ) regarding the regulation of parking charges across the state brought a smile on their face. The rates, according to the order, were different for corporations, municipalities and village panchayats. In Chennai, while it is ` 20 for cars and three-wheelers, the charge to be levied for   is `10, and all these were supposed to come into effect from December 1. Film buffs who watch movies in SPI Cinemas and other cinema halls have been spending just `10 to park their two-wheelers. However, it’s not the case with all the theatres. Many audiences have been complaining about the irregularities in charges and violation of rules in several city theatres. A few theatre owners and regular film-goers speak to CT about the situation in the city…

 
 
 The hike in ticket price in  , from `120 to `165, happened a few months ago. And for non-Tamil films, it is `175, something which an average family can’t afford. It is almost unlikely that theatre owners will reduce the price of eatables. So, the GO which came with respect to parking charges was a slight relief for us. It is quite sad that some theatres do not follow the government order. How can film industry people blame those behind piracy when they themselves are violating the law so blatantly?
 — Vimal Vijayan, movie buff
 
 
 
 We are currently charging `20 and `30 respectively for two-wheelers and  . But there are chances of us reducing the parking charge, for which a few things like land tax have to be considered. The business model for multiplex chains is different from single screen theatres. For a complex like ours, which has two screens, the equation is different from that of multiplexes. For us, major revenue comes from parking and canteen.
 - Ruban, GK Cinemas
 
 
 
 The popularity of OTT platforms will affect a film’s theatre run in the coming days. There are other legal ways of watching films, too, by sitting at home. So, theatre owners should actually come up with attractive offers to lure viewers. But what is happening here is the other way around. Recently, I had to pay `30 at Kamala theatre for parking my two-wheeler. I had a similar experience when I went to Udhayam theatre, too, on another day.
 — Parthasarathy, movie buff
 
 
 
 We have been charging for vehicles as per the rules only. Today, if you look at a parking lot at the airport or at the central railway station, the parking charges are on per hour basis. Similarly, just because a few theatres are charging a particular amount doesn’t mean that they are right and others, too, have to follow it. If SPI Cinemas is taken as a benchmark for charging only `10 per vehicle, look at the ticket rates there! We aren’t charging as much as them for the ticket; even if you compare the price of eatables, we charge way below them. So, asking all the theatres to maintain the same amount as parking charge by projecting one particular theatre’s rate isn’t right. Also, there are some clauses in the GO which needs clarity.
 — Valliappan, Kamala Cinemas
 
 
 
 Not just a few, but a lion’s share of theatres are violating rules when it comes to parking charges. As far as I have seen, only SPI Cinemas and AGS Cinemas are following the GO. When they don’t have any issues, I wonder what makes it difficult for others to follow the same. A few theatres citing ambiguity in the GO is just a way of fooling the audience. This practice is killing the industry, which is already affected by low footfalls. It’s important that we be given clarity regarding the charge to be levied for screens in multiplexes. 
 — Cable Sankar, writer-director
 
