JAIPUR: While the admission process under the Right to Education (RTE) Act has begun, many private schools have not initiated the process, leaving a question mark over the number of vacant seats available under the Act. Many schools have contended that they cannot reveal the final number of   seats until they fill their seats before Aprilend though the lottery of RTE admissions will be declared on March 9.

 Online RTE admissions, meanwhile, began on Friday and will continue till March 7. This is likely to affect the number of admissions under RTE. As per the Act, every private school has to admit 25% of its total strength with children from the economically weaker section at the entry level.  , secretary and spokesperson of   (the parent body of RBSE schools), said that RTE admissions have started in haste. “Private schools are busy with final year exams and many are yet to start the admission process. Ideally, it should have started after the schools gave a rough idea of RTE seats,” said Mittal.
 
 Parents or guardians will now have to select schools without knowing the number of seats available for the EWS category. He says that unlike elite schools, middle-level private schools are not sure of the admissions. “Sometimes, these schools get students to the full capacity. But many times they have failed to fill the required number of seats,” said Mittal.
 
 This year they are two lakh seats in around 33,500 private schools. Private schools are also unhappy after the state reduced the reimbursement from Rs 17,500 to Rs 13, 500 over the last two years. “Rajasthan is the only state which has cut reimbursements, forcing schools to withhold increments and other developmental activities. A private school based in   opined that every year they have to increase the fees by 8% to meet rising expenses. But the cut in reimbursement is making it difficult to meet expenses. Meanwhile, the first day of RTE admissions was hit by a technical snag. Reports have come that many parents were unable to upload documents till afternoon at several places.
 
