NAGPUR: Giving a glimpse of the luxurious and leisurely lifestyles of bankers in the bygone era, a majestic billiards table occupies the pride of place at the State Bank of India’s main branch at Kingsway. The table arrived in Nagpur from Kolkata in 1863 and was ordered by one of the agents for his personal use.

 Made by C Lazarus & Co of Calcutta, it measures 12ft x7ft. In 2002, the bank spent over Rs1 lakh to give the table a new baize, which is the tightly woven worsted green wool cloth that forms its surface. Its six lofty wooden legs were polished to give them a shiny veneer.
 
 The bank’s top brass has been using this table on and off for recreation and there have been suggestions from local billiard players to hold tournaments says Mohan Changde, assistant general manager of the bank. “Last year we had planned one in December but it could not happen. This year we will be able to organize it,” he says and adds that employees at the bank play cricket, badminton and table tennis, and billiards has so far no takers.
 
 The bank has received requests for buying the table from local clubs but is not willing to part with it. “Around 40 branches around the country including us, which are housed in heritage structures, like this one in Nagpur, have created heritage corners in the bank. Here we have displayed for the public, centuries old records, ledgers, photographs and impressions of currency notes used in those days. This table is part of that heritage so we have preserved and maintained it,” says Changde showing the wood panelled corner at the entrance of the old building were the articles are kept.
 
 The table occupies a place on the first floor of the building. “This area was the residential quarters of the agent of Bank of Bengal as it was called in those days,” informs Changde. The huge 25x25sqft room where it is placed also has four high backed chairs from those times, a dresser for holding coats and hats and a score board with brass plates. The room leads to a huge veranda and a sprawling terrace reminiscent of the British era.
 
 “My father Trilochan Singh Babrah, who passed away last year, was called to do the repairs. It needed polishing of wood and change of green cloth which was done,” said   who is continuing the family business of maintaining and manufacturing billiards tables. “A new table would cost around Rs3 lakh, but a discerning buyer who understands the true worth of this one will offer more than five times of that cost,” says Harvindar and adds, “There was another billiard table of the same vintage at   club too.” 
 
 
