By: Parinita Venkat 

  Rumours of paper leaks did the rounds soon after students stepped out of the   halls and debates raged about whether re-tests would have to be conducted for various papers. This season for   students was full of pressures but in the end, the students seem to have emerged victorious with more than 10% of those who appeared for the exam securing above 90%. Though the idea of rewriting the economics paper was daunting one, many managed to score high in the subject.
 
  
  
 
 Nitin, a Class XII student who was worried about the leak said it turned out to be a pleasant surprise and the reexam was not as bad an ordeal as he had imagined. “While the idea of writing one more exam was annoying at first, all that was forgotten when we saw our marks.”
 
 
 The taint of a leak was somewhat forgotten when the students realised the evaluation seemed fair. “The correction was fair in my opinion. Though we wrote the paper for a second time, it turned out to be easy. I got the marks I expected; just one or two marks differed for me,” said Shruthi, a student. Another student said that though the physics paper was slightly difficult and some questions were out of syllabus, the correction was lenient.
 
 Several schools reported that many candidates had been able to secure scores in the 490 range with some managing 493 and 492. This seems to be in contrast with the evaluation pattern of the state board which this time did not give in to the craze for centums and clamour for toppers, leaning toward a more practical correction method.
 
 Vasanthi, correspondent of Sishya School in Hosur, said that the management was happy with the results and that the students had managed to score well across the board. “We felt the performance has been upped this year,” she said.
 
 When it came to the overall performance of the Chennai region which saw a slight dip last year when compared to the previous year, this time, the pass percentage has improved from 92.6 to 93.87.
 
 Yet again, it was the girls who outperformed the boys with 95.63% over 92.46%. The Chennai region that comprises nine states including Tamil Nadu came in second after Trivandrum region (95.62) and is followed by the Delhi region at 88.37%.
 
 Although the schools in the state reported good performances, no student from Tamil Nadu or other southern states was able to make it to the list of nine toppers that was released by the CBSE on Saturday. The list had the top three scores secured in the country of 499, 498 and 497.
 
 
