IMPHAL: Forest and environment minister Th  , taking serious note of the degradation of  , has informed the assembly that the state government has taken up measures to save the river, a source of livelihood for thousands of people. An order has been issued to the respective deputy commissioners and superintendents of police in the districts through which the Thoubal flows to take up immediate action to stop encroachment, infiltration, human excretion and piggery farming on it and its banks, the minister said. 

 Many local clubs and NGOs have recently launched a mass movement demanding that the government take specific measure to check pollution on the river.
 
 During the discussion and voting on demands for grants in the ongoing budget session on Friday, Shyamkumar also said a solid waste management plant will be set up at Thoubal Khunou under the Non-lapsable Central Pool of Resources (NLCPR).
 
 Despite the shortage of manpower, the department is trying to stop illegal smuggling of timber from reserve forests, said the minister. Later, the minister also introduced the Indian Forests (Manipur Amendment) Bill 2018 in the house.
 
 Commerce and industries minister Th Biswajit Singh informed the assembly that the government is looking forward to set up an entrepreneurship development institute in the state. He added that entrepreneurship will help in decreasing the unemployment rate in the state. The government is targeting developing small and medium scale industries and is giving priority to chromite exploration, limestone extraction and bamboo chipping industries, which will help the state's economy, added Biswajit. He also informed the house that the petroleum exploration process is being reviewed.
 
 Giving clarification to the observation made by MLA Kh Joykisan Singh of the Congress, Biswajit said the State Institute of Journalism under the Department of Information and Public Relations was established with an aim to produce more professional journalists in the state. The process to obtain its affiliation from Manipur University is currently underway, added the minister.
 
 
