MUMBAI: An analysis of patients visiting major   shows common  , inlcuding  , anxiety and panic attacks and phobias, draw as many patients as major psychiatric illnesses like  .

 The   conducted by the   showed that 31% of the patients who visited the four teaching hospitals—KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper hospitals—between October 2015 and September 2017 needed  . Mental health patients thus, made the biggest chunk of visitors to BMC hospitals, followed by patients with diabetes and hypertension (at 23% each), showed the survey released on Monday.
 
 Dr Seema Bansode, who was in charge of the survey, said, “We found 1,884 patients walk into the psychiatry department’s out-patient clinics of these four hospitals within a week.” Schizophrenia was the biggest complaint followed by major depression disorder (see box).
 
  
 Dr Shubhangi Parkar, who heads KEM Hospital’s psychiatry department, said, “We see many common mental disorders ranging from depression to phobias to obsessive compulsive disorders.”
 
 Psychiatric ailments led the list of morbidities, said experts, because of growing awareness about the condition. “Moreover, people with chronic diseases, like diabetes or heart problems, too have mental disorders. Their doctors now increasingly refer them to psychiatrists,” said Dr Vishal Sawant, who heads Cooper Hospital’s psychiatry department.
 
 Psychiatrist Dr Vani Kulhalli said civic-run hospitals are known to treat patients with multiple and complex illnesses. “When a person has complex and multiple disorders, because of the body reaction as well as the psychological reaction, they are more prone to mental illness. Another reason is that the process of help seeking for healthcare is also stressful and by the time they reach the BMC hospital they are quite stressed out,” she said.
 
 Psychologist Varkha Chulani said as far as depression is concerned it could largely be because of the unfortunate stress that a city like Mumbai provides in terms of very poor infrastructure, huge crowds, travel time with exceptionally long work hours which do not leave one with too much personal time. “The difficulty to cope with such factors in a city which is extremely expensive in terms rent and food leads to people to crack under the pressure of being able to sustain in a city which is only bursting at the seams,” she added.
 
 
