With the Ishaan Khatter-Malavika Mohanan starrer '
 ', Oscar-nominated Iranian filmmaker   has taken the allure of Mumbai’s locations to a whole new level. Indian films have been capturing the scape of Maximum City for many years now, but Majidi’s penchant for art and aesthetic has done new wonders for Mumbai and its local places. These striking visuals of the city have been presented against the backdrop of AR Rahman’s soulful music, as the brother-sister story pans out with a strong Mumbai flavour. Here are six prominent locations where Majidi and his crew shot the film...

 
  
  
 
 The first ever schedule of the film was shot at Sassoon Docks. This lesser-explored part of Mumbai lends a unique character to the narrative. The essence of the coastline, the grey sky and the contrast of white hues create a compelling and artistic atmosphere. The colourful boats add a tinge of vibrance to the frame.
 
  
  
 
 This is of one of the most iconic places in Mumbai. While one may have seen Dhobi Ghat as a backdrop in a number of   movies before, it has never been presented in such detail. The frame seems to tell a story of its own, offering an exhaustive look of the everyday life of common Mumbaikars. This is one of the most prominent locations in the film and interestingly, it’s also the place where the look-test for the female lead, Malavika, was conducted.
 
  
  
 
 This image marks the opening visual of the film. In many ways, it’s reflective of the journey — the path one needs to take in life to see what the future has in store. The visual of a straight path, flanked by the pipelines and mangroves, makes a striking impact on first sight. This frame showcases the proverbial ‘road less travelled’ thought with élan.
 
  
  
 
 One of the most beautifully-shot chase sequences of the film was captured here. The narrow by-lanes of the area, crowded with people and bustling fish markets, made for an exhilarating sequence. It was tough to shoot here, given the limited space for camera movement, but Majidi, along with his cinematographer Anil Mehta, managed to bring the soul of the place alive.
 
  
  
 
 This visual captures one of the most stunning scenes in the film. It was strategically shot in the month of February, when flamingos flock the shore of Sewri every year, just for a few weeks. Interestingly, the shot also took a few days to capture, because everything depended on the arrival and departure patterns of the birds, a fact beyond the control of the crew. Modern technology has allowed filmmakers to compose such frames digitally, but Majidi chose to capture the real shot instead of using VFX. He wanted to capture the beautiful pink birds and their elegant movements in their natural environment. So, the filmmaker waited patiently to get the right shot. 
 
  
  
 
 A prominent shooting location for  , it also became a subsequent venue for one of the film’s promotional events. A large chunk was shot here with the help of local residents. Worli Koliwada is tucked away like a mini fortress in the middle of tall skyscrapers and the magnificent backdrop of the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. The sheer contrast of Mumbai can be viewed here — the lines between a glittery skyline merging with the sombre dark slums. You can trust a filmmaker like Majidi to bring out the ethos of the city in a single movie frame.
 
 'Beyond The Clouds', produced by Zee Studios and Namah Pictures, releases on April 20.
 
 
