CHANDIGARH: Two months after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s controversial trip to India,   reportedly acted on Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s list of alleged terrorists and had last week detained Surrey-based Hardeep Singh Nijjar.

 The CM had handed over the list to Canadian PM on February 21 during his visit to Amritsar. It is learnt that the Canadian police had last week detained and questioned Nijjar for his alleged involvement in terror activities in Punjab.
 
 According to information, Nijjar, a resident of Jalandhar, is wanted in three terror cases in Punjab. The first case against Nijjar was registered on April 21, 2010, pertaining to bomb explosion near Satya Narain Mandir in Patiala. All local accused have been acquitted in this case whereas UK-based Paramjit Singh Pamma is still absconding.
 
 The second case against him was registered in 2015 at Nurpur Bedi for his alleged involvement in targeting Hindu leaders.
 
 The third case was registered in 2016 at Ludhiana which allegedly pertained to training and funding of one Mandeep Dhaliwal and hatching conspiracy for killing Hindu leaders.
 
 A Look Out Circular (LOC) was issued against Nijjar, a Surrey resident, in 2015, and a Red Corner Notice (RCN) was issued in relation to Patiala and Nurpur Bedi cases in 2016. The RCN was finally executed last week, said sources.
 
 The list that Amarinder had handed over to Trudeau had the names of 9 people, with most of them allegedly linked to International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) and Khalistan Tiger Force. The details in the list included when they last visited India, how they allegedly funded firearms for terror modules and how they allegedly received funds from terror groups in Pakistan, said sources.
 
 Trudeau’s trip in February had turned into a political minefield after senior ministers of both the Centre and the Punjab government initially avoided meeting him to register their protest over the Canadian government’s alleged proximity to some so-called Khalistani sympathizers.
 
 Interestingly, the ISYF also figured in the joint statement that Trudeau and Modi released after their meeting. Amarinder had told Trudeau that to maintain cordial relations, action on terrorists operating from Canadian soil was a must.
 
 Nijjar is accused of raising a 5-member Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) module in 2014. In 2009, he was also accused of murdering Rulda Singh, the then head of the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, an affiliate of the RSS.
 
 A number of targeted killings had taken place in Punjab in 2016 and 2017, including those of RSS leaders Brig Jagdish Gagneja (retd) and Ravinder Gosain. These cases are being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) now.
 
 They others in the Capt’s list included Gurjeet Singh Cheema, Gurpreet Singh, Gurjinder Singh Pannu and Malkeet Singh alias Fauji.
 
 According to Punjab Police, Cheema, Gurpreet Singh and Pannu are operatives of the International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) and an FIR was registered against them on May 21, 2017 at Ramdas police station in Amritsar district under various sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Arms Act. Fauji is a Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) operative and has been booked under UAPA and Arms Act at police station Mukandpur in Nawanshar on June 5, 2017, said the police.
 
 
