NAGPUR: Over a thousand Shiv temples in the city are gearing up to receive crowds of devotees who come to offer prayers on   to be celebrated on Tuesday. 

 The festival falls in Hindu month of Phalgun and is observed with fasting and religious rituals. Walking up to sacred Shiva shrines offering water, honey, milk and even sugar cane juice on the Shivlinga are some of the activities that take place.
 
 Prayers are offered with the faith and hope that Shiva would redeem them from the life cycle. So fasting for 24 hours, carrying water and tridents to be offered at temples, doing night long rudra abhisheks, are all performed to appease the lord. 
 
 “Visit to a temple is a must as Shiva worship is usually performed at community level,” says Prabodh Vekhende who studies scriptures.
 
 “Carrying water to Shiva temples, observing Shiva Parvati wedding and performing abhisheks are all done in groups as Shiva was an ascetic and Parvati, his consort, tried hard to make him a householder to gain knowledge from him,” says Vekhende.
 
 In city, lakhs of devotees throng to Kalyaneshwar temple in Mahal and at   along with Kalyaneshwar temple in Telangkhedi to worship. “Devotees start queuing up from as early as 3am for darshan,” says developer Ashutosh Shewalkar whose family took over the temple decades back. The Shivlinga in the temple is considered jagrut.
 
 “I believe when so many people enter the sanctum with pious and good thoughts and offer worship with good faith they leave behind a lot of positive energy which fills the temple with good vibrations,” he says. Over 30,000 devotees visit the temple during the day and partake the mahaprasad prepared by the authorities.
 
 The ironsmiths in   deliver innumerable trishuls to devotees. A symbol of Shiva, this divine weapon is made in different sizes especially for Shivratri. “Offering a weapon to god is considered auspicious. Many do it after a wish is fulfilled,” says  , a third generation ironsmith.
 
 Even at private temples built by individuals, prayers are offered the entire night. “We will be performing laghu rudra puja at the temple which will go on till 4.00am,” says Vivek Sisodia a farmer whose family built a small Shiva temple on his farm at Chatikhapa in 1963. 
 
 “A lot of snakes come out around the temple on Shivaratri day which has made this temple very famous in around Nagpur,” says Sisodia.
 
 He makes arrangements for over 2000 devotees who come from Nagpur to offer worship. “We organize mahaprasad and provide fruits and other foods that are eaten during fast,” he says.
 
 
