GURGAON: It’s been almost two months since the Haryana government appointed two   as chairpersons of twin   benches. But they are yet to assume charge due to pending “technicalities”, preventing the much-awaited authorities from becoming fully functional.

 In November last year, after much dilly-dallying, the government had named additional chief secretary (education) KK Khandelwal as the head of the Gurgaon bench and additional chief secretary (health) Rajan Gutpa as the chief of the Panchkula bench. The government had then also promised to make a website of the authority operational at the earliest, raising hopes among homebuyers who were pressing for speedy implementation of the H-Rera Act that was notified last July to essentially safeguard their interests.
 
 But, two months on, the two Rera benches — one dedicated to entire Gurgaon district with office in the city and the other to deal with cases from the rest of Haryana having office in Panchkula — are still headless and the proposed website is still being developed.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Officials, not willing to be named, revealed that as per rules, a serving IAS officer could not assume the charge of Rera chairperson. However, the government named two serving officers, who first need to opt for the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) before occupying their designated Rera posts.
 
 Sources said Khandelwal and Gupta had applied for the VRS and their applications were being processed. However, no one could say when the two appointed chiefs would be able to take charge of the things.
 
 As a result, buyers are still confused about how to lodge complaints or who should they approach with their grievances. Gaurav Prakash, a homebuyer, said the authorities had not been able to come up with its website or set up the office till date. “In the absence of the website, a buyer has no means to check whether a project is registered under the Rera. And with no officein place, buyers are completely in the dark about the process of filing a complaint,” he rued.
 
 An RTI plea has revealed that nearly 382 projects, most of which are in Gurgaon, have been registered under the Rera in Haryana since last July while buyers filed complaints against 67 developers during the same period.
 
 In response to the query filed by Gurgaon-based activist Aseem Takyar, the authorities have also claimed that 21 developers had been show-caused between May and June (2017) for publishing advertisements on newspapers without registering their projects under the Rera.“I received a list of projects registered under Rera in reply of an RTI petition. Most of the projects (almost 80%) are in Gurgaon while the rest are in Faridabad, Rewari, Panipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar,” Takyar claimed.
 
 Though a large number of homebuyers are complaining about the delay in proper implementation of the Act, realtors appear upbeat over the Rera rules.
 
 Ravish Kapoor, director, Elan Group, said, “The move to make registration of projects and properties compulsory under the Rera has increased transparency. Many developers are rushing to get completion certificates as they do not want to default under the provisions of the new Act. Buyers look positive as they are confident that they will get quality products within a deadline.”
 
 Ssumit Berry, managing director, BDI Group, said, “The Rera has brought more transparency to the sector. Both sides have equally benefited. If builders have to give every detail of their projects, buyers also have to obey every rule of the authorities. Cases of delayed payment and bounced cheque will also be solved under this Act.”
 
 
