MUMBAI: The   combined with humidity has put many in the  .   have witnessed a significant rise in  ,  , and waterborne ailments. In a small percentage of cases, patients have even required ICU admissions after suffering from severe dehydration and related complications.

 At the medical intensive care unit (MICU) of the BMCrun  , for instance, ailments and complications triggered by heat have become common over the last few weeks. “We have at least two admissions every day where patients come in shock, or in a delirious state, or with complaints of cramps. In a more serious presentation among a handful of cases, patients have suffered from cortical venous sinus thrombosis, a potentially serious neurological condition triggered by dehydration,” said Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine, Sion Hospital.
 
  
 
 Explaining how dehydration can manifest into such a serious form, Dr Karnik said that in weather where daytime temperatures are hovering around 35 degrees Celsius, one could lose up to one to two litres of water in the form of sweat. “Thrombosis occurs when a blood clot forms in the brain's venous sinuses and prevents blood from draining out of the brain,” he said. “Most patients who suffered from this uncommon condition were in their 30s and have a history of working outdoors. Some of them presented with partial paralysis, while there were others who came with loose motions and vomiting. All could be successfully treated. It is important that people don't just drink water but also add lime, kokam, and salt to replenish electrolyte levels.”
 
 In a majority of cases though, it is viral fever, redness of eyes, cold, sore throats and lingering cough that patients are complaining of. “We are treating many cases of patients with runny nose and irritable throat, but few are graduating into fever cases,” said physician Dr Hemant Thacker, cautioning people from running into an AC blast after coming in from the sun. Infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava said a dozen of his patients is grappling with a bout of post-infection bronchitis that’s taking longer than usual to heal. “Many of them are on steroids, yet the recovery time is longer,” he said. Pollution, as one of the cause factors cannot be ruled out, he said. In 2017, the city saw 167 days when air quality was moderate or poor.
 
 Sporadic cases of dengue are also being reported from the city. After sudden showers were recorded in parts of the state, including extended suburbs like Kalyan and Dombivli, the state is worried that it could contribute to a spurt in dengue. Mumbai has seen nearly 500 cases of suspected dengue in the first three months of the year. But the number of laboratory-confirmed cases was only 17 till February. BMC officials said dengue cases are under control and their concern is mostly about gastroenteritis cases, since people consume water and beverages outside. In a recent drive, the BMC found that 98% of edible ice samples tested were contaminated with the E.coli bacteria.
 
