BHOPAL: Good politics does not necessarily make good economics. This adage fits perfectly on Madhya Pradesh government, that is staring at assembly general elections later this year and mounting anger from the farmers’.

 Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s sops on Monday for the farmers announced at a   has burdened the cash-strapped state, further.
 
 If sources from the MP finance department are to be believed, the government would need at least Rs 10,000 crore to meet its commitment made to the farmers.
 
 “To give a boost to the income of farmers, the state would need about Rs 10,000 crore. And around Rs 5,000 crore in the next two months for effective implementation of the scheme,” state finance department sources said.
 
 Sources further said that Rs 1,340 crore would be required to pay Rs 200 bonus per quintal on the MSP of 67 lakh metric tonne wheat procured from the farmers in 2016-17 while another Rs 340 crore would go to paddy farmers for 17 lakh metric tonnes of produce as bonus. “Another Rs 1,700 core for chana, masoor and mustard farmers and Rs 500 crore for onion.
 
 Besides, there are the other announcements like making Chambal ravines suitable for farming and expenses on storing produce in ware houses,” said the sources.
 
 And where would the money come from for government? The CM too did not divulge the details? 
 
 “The government has done all its calculations. Chouhan may earmark some funds in the budget to be presented later this month. The money may also be arranged after slashing down budgetary provisions of different departments. If the CM’s plan is executed, MP might not see any new development works in 2018-19,” top sources said seeking anonymity.
 
 After having made the announcement, the chief minister was elated, mainly due to the positive response from the farmers, who have been expecting fair deal from him on their produce. The chief minister was seen returning to the dais thrice to repeat his announcements, and extending the Shivratri greeting to the eagerly waiting farmers.
 
 Sources said the government’s main concern is small and marginal farmers, who often tend to work as agricultural labourers and have not seen a significant rise in their incomes, despite an impressive agriculture growth in agriculture reported by the state over the years. Though MP’s farm performance look impressive, the distribution of gains are not reflected in their income. “For the rabi 2018, the MSP and bonus announcements will be done after the produce is procured,” sources said.
 
 Minister for agriculture   said, “For farmers, there is no dearth of funds with the government. The government is committed to fulfil its promises.”
 
 However, the farmers’ leaders are still not happy.
 
 National president of   alias Kakkaji said, “This is another stunt in an election year. We will take out a yatra to tell farmers not to be misled by the announcements.”
 
 
