The style diva of Bollywood,   is all set to get hitched to her long-time boyfriend 
  today.

 Anand, is the owner of fashion brand Bhane, which has a showroom in New Delhi's extravagant Meherchand Market. The first time we heard about the Sonam-Anand romance was nearly a year ago when Sonam was spotted wearing Bhane products.
 
 
  
  
 
 The festivities of the Sonam-Anand wedding started with a mehendi ceremony, which will be followed by sangeet. A number of pictures and videos from the mehendi were shared online and they are indeed every bit rocking. 
 
 The mehendi ceremony was on May 6 and is spilling over to the 7th with the sangeet. Undoubtedly, it was a star-studded affair and the celebs were all dressed to kill in white.
 
 The mehendi ceremony took place at Sonam’s aunt Kavita’s residence in Sunteck Signature Island, Bandra Kurla Complex. While her wedding ceremony on May 8, will be followed by lunch at Rockdale, 226, Bandstand, Bandra.
 
 Wedding cards were given out in the form of floral e-invites in the shades of pastel green. The invites have been sent to the guests with their name embossed on them.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The guest list of the people attending Sonam Kapoor’s wedding is indeed very long. While the actress’ close family, including cousins  ,  , Khushi Kapoor and Anshula Kapoor will be attending the wedding, many celebrities are also expected to be attending the wedding including Ranbir Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Varun Dhawan and Jacqueline Fernandez.
 
 The dress code for the wedding is mentioned as Indian Festives: Shades of White” on the e-invite.
 
 The gorgeous lehenga that Sonam wore for her Mehendi and Sangeet functions reportedly took 18 months to create. The lehenga has numerous panels and each of these have been designed with motifs using chikankari work. As reported by the Vogue, forty different stitch techniques were used to bring together Sonam’s look for the Mehendi and Sangeet ceremonies. Gold and silver zardozi, zari, pearls, Swarovski crystals and tiny sequins have been used to give the lehenga-choli the unique, bridal look.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
