After several weeks of intense practise sessions, music battles and elimination rounds Vishwa Prasad managed to beat his co-contestants to clinch the title of Kannada   Pa season 14. 

 It was a power packed grand finale episode as it witnessed   Bhat, Vishwa prasad, the ingenious Tansen  , the diva  , and stunning melodist   battling it out till the end. 
 
 Interestingly, the channel decided to telecast the grand finale episodes live for viewers. 
 
 The special guests for the evening included the contestants of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs Season 13, and a special performance of Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs Season 14 for the finalists, and an exclusive performance by the cherished Neha, for the enthusiastic audience.
 
  The finale included 2 rounds of performance, through which Vishwa Prasad, Keerthana, Jnaneshwar, and Tejas Shastri triumphed on to the second round. The results were announced by jointly taking into account various factors including the marks awarded by the judges, feedback from the jury members and popular voting by the public. 
 
 Tejas Shastri, the 2nd runner-up, was awarded a cash prize of 1 Lakh; Keerthana and Jnaneshwar acquired a cash prize of 4 Lakhs, and Vishwa Prasad earned a cash prize of 5 Lakhs.
 
 The 12- year-old Belagavi boy, Vishwa Prasad has already won over 30 awards for singing, including Tamil Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs, and continues to shine with his win.
 
 Apart from being proficient at Hindustani Shastriya Sangeetha and Sugama Sangeetha, Vishwa Prasad has always aspired to become a cricketer and a Civil Engineer. He believes to be lucky to receive consistent support from his family to help him turn his dreams into reality.
 
 On being crowned as the title winner of the show, Vishwa Prasad said: “I consider myself lucky to have had the opportunity of meeting with tremendous up-coming artists, and training with some of the best musicians in the country. I am grateful to Sa Re Ga Ma Pa, the judges, jury members and the audiences, for giving me the opportunity to live my dream. These have been my most memorable 6 months of my life and I will continue to use all these valuable lessons in the future.”
 
 Fans of the Tv show got to witness all the action live. It was a musical and magical night as contestants of the entire season also put up performances enthralling the audiences.
 
 Vishwa Prasad was one of the strongest contestants on the show and he managed to clinch the title after battling it out with the other finalists.
 
 The finale was hosted by Karnataka's favourite TV host Anushree.
 
 The jury comprised of Arjun Janya, Vijay Prakash and   of the show Hamsalekha, who is well-known film composer and songwriter. 
 
