COLVA/INDORE: The Goa police on Saturday arrested three Indore-based men involved in the gang rape of a 20-year-old woman at a   beach on Thursday night. 

  Police said the men raped the survivor and then forced her boyfriend to rape her. They filmed the act and threatened the couple with circulating the video online if they failed to pay Rs 1 lakh to them. The accused have been identified as Sanjeev Dhananjay Pal, 25, Ram Santosh Bhariya, 24, and Ishwar  , 24. 
 
  The trio has a criminal background and cases have been registered against them in Indore, police said. Makwana has a rape case against him, while the other two have been involved in thefts. 
 
 Inspector general of police Jaspal Singh said the accused were familiar with the isolated spots along beach stretch as they were frequent visitors to Goa. Their intention was to rob people of cash and ornaments.
 
 They picked up a conversation with the couple and demanded money. The couple gave them Rs 200, but, they started demanding more money. When they realised that they won't get anything more, they first molested the girl, then raped her and filmed the act. The accused were armed with knives and a chopper, which they had robbed from a fisherman. The couple lodged a complaint on Friday. 
 
 The survivor and her boyfriend came back home promising them to pay the amount the next day. They then lodged a complaint in the early hours of Friday, alleging gang rape and extortion. The survivor stated that Makwana filmed the act and was calling on her cell phone, demanding Rs 1 lakh. The police asked the survivor's friend to engage Makwana by telling him to pay the money in exchange for the vodeo clip. Makwana, who was in  , asked him to deliver the money at Karmali railway station. The police ensured the survivor's friend constantly engaged Makwana on the phone so as to locate him. At Karmali railway station, Makwana's friend Sanjeev came to receive the cash and was arrested by the police. Following Sanjeev's arrest, the other two were also apprehended. 
 
