CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party chief 
  to   leader   led to an open revolt in its Punjab unit, with state unit president   and co-president   resigning from their posts in protest on Friday. Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), which has two MLAs, too announced it would end its alliance with AAP.

  
  
 AAP, the main opposition party in the Punjab assembly with 20 MLAs, came close to splitting from the Delhi brass as “a majority of MLAs were in favour of forming a new party in Punjab”. But the proposal did not go through because of “lack of consensus”.
 
 
 
 AAP’s Punjab unit held two marathon meetings on Friday. The first round was attended by 20 of the 22-MLA alliance and they unanimously condemned Kejriwal’s apology to Majithia. On the future course of action, “majority sentiment favoured a breakup with Delhi, but there was no consensus”, said a source. Mann told TOI that he had resigned from the post of president but was still with the party.
 
 “I am resigning as president of   but my fight against drug mafia and all kinds of corruption in Punjab will continue as an ‘Aam Aadmi’ of Punjab,” said the AAP MP after announcing his resignation on his Facebook page.
 
 Arora too posted a tweet, addressed to party in-charge  , saying, “Due to the painful turn of events, please accept my resignation from the post of co-president.” Though the state unit has not declared itself “ independent” yet, the leaders have decided to assert themselves vis-a-vis the Kejriwal-controlled central leadership in Delhi.
 
 The state unit said Kejriwal did not even think it fit to engage with the local leadership. “There was a meeting scheduled for March 18 with the central leadership, but now we’ve told them they should come down here to discuss matters of Punjab,” Kharar MLA   said.
 
 Since AAP forayed into Punjab, Kejriwal had made the allegations against Majithia the centrepiece of his ambitious plan for the state. 
 
 He accused the formidable Akali leader, who is related to the Badals, of a litany of crimes and promised to send him to jail if AAP was elected to office. On Thursday, however, he offered an unconditional apology to Majithia for levelling “unfounded” allegations.
 
 The reactions from AAP leaders and cadres were almost instantaneous with Sukhpal Singh Khaira, leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly, proposing to set up a separate platform. Asked when the MLAs would take a call on their next move, Sandhu said it was an ongoing process and the cadres would be consulted.
 
 Replying to a question on whether splitting from the Delhi unit would have meant floating a party, Khaira and Sandhu said that was one option.
 
 Earlier, Sandhu and Khaira did not put a number on how many MLAs were ready to break away. Five MLAs — Aman Arora, Kultar Singh, Baljinder Kaur, Amarjit Singh Sandoa and Sarabjit Kaur Manuke — did not attend the second meeting. “Kejriwal may have tendered an apology, but our fight against drugs will continue.
 
 Our stand is the same that there should be a CBI probe into the drug trade and if there are allegations against any political leader, those too should be investigated,” said Sandhu.
 
 Khaira and Sandhu said the idea about the future course should evolve and feedback from volunteers and NRIs would be valued.
 
 LIP leader   said 14-15 AAP MLAs wanted to break away, but the remaining did not approve of the move. “But we have decided to break the alliance,” he said.
 
