JAIPUR: A three-member team of the   visited the private hospital in Jaipur, where 17 labourers were reportedly administered osteopathic-orthopedic drug in an alleged case of unethical clinical testing. The labourers, mainly from Bharatpur and Churu districts, have alleged that they were given a drug on April 20 for `improved digestion’. Following reports about a health of a few labourers deteriorating, the state government on Saturday constituted a three-member committee, which too is investigating the matter.

 On Sunday, another three-member team of the Central Drug Controller of India arrived in Jaipur and visited the hospital in question Malpani Hospital. The team spent more than an hour and collected the records relating to the drugs, its procurement and storage. “It is too early to comment as we have just started our investigation,” said an officer who is part of the central team. 
 
 Both the teams were yet to register the statements of the labourers as they have returned to their villages. ``We have asked the chief medical and health officer ( ) of the districts including Churu and Bharatpur to trace down the labourers, so that the statements of these labourers can be recorded,” said Dr.  , who is heading the three-member probe panel constituted by the state government.
 
 When contacted, state health minister Kalicharan Saraf, health minister, said, “a three-member panel has been constituted to look into the incident. Action would be taken if lapses are found.”
 
 17 labourers from Churu on Saturday had filed a complaint at the Bidasar police station alleging that they were administered drug meant for clinical trial at a private hospital. Hospital authorities have denied the allegations and maintained that some volunteer patients were invited to join this clinical trial of a drug. “One lot of labourers were actually found unsuitable for the test as they were too young. Thus, some persons got angry on the rejection and to pressure the centre,” said Dr.  , proprietor of Malpani multi-speciality hospital. 
 
 
