THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: he   state private  ' federation here on Saturday said the increasing fuel price has almost ruined the private bus service industry and put forward a three-pronged strategy before the Union and state governments for the redemption of the industry. 

 
 Though the bus fare had undergone a nominal increase by March 1, 2018, the same has not   to the bus operators, they said. While the price of diesel per litre was Rs 66 at the time of the bus fare hike announced two months ago, it has spiralled up to Rs 72 in two months. The hike of Rs 6 means a loss of Rs 600 per day to the bus operators.
 
 "We want the state and central governments to include petroleum products under   regime. If that is not possible, the Centre and state should cut down the tax on petroleum products. If both the options are unacceptable, both the governments should consider providing diesel subsidy to private bus operators," the association general secretary   told reporters here.
 
 The association representatives also requested the state government to give more time for them to comply with the new guidelines for bus body building. Only one company in Kerala has the facility and permission to carry out the body building as per the revised specifications. In such a situation, the work would obviously get delayed. Or else, the bus operators would be forced to depend companies outside the state for the work. Since no other states have so far started insisting the new guideline, Kerala government too should take a lenient view, they said.
 
 The federation leaders said they did not support the call for denying concession facility to students. But it is necessary to cut down the concession rate and fix it such a way that students pay at least half of the general fare. Without such a decision, it would be impossible to run the service. At least 60%of the commuters in private buses are students, they said.
 
 Raising these demands, the federation members will take out a protest march to secretariat on Monday.
 
