KOCHI: Summer tourism is set to pick up, but many lesser known tourist destinations in the state continue to pose risk to visitors in the absence of adequate safety measures. Those in the tourism sector feel that it is high time the government organized safety audits in tourism locations and create an action plan based on it.
 
 In  , an area close to   forests where a blazing fire claimed 16 lives, around 6,000 to 10,000 tourists came to trek in a week during the peak season last year. “This figure is manifold the carrying capacity of the region. Many locals organise trekking camps in the area without permission and providing adequate security,” said a tourism department official.
 
 Lack of trained guides also puts a question mark on the safety of trekkers.
 
 “Kerala is the only state which allows camping inside forests. In forest, we should obey rules. There are some do’s and don’ts. The guides who are forest dwellers would give proper instructions to tourists,” said  , a naturalist.
 
 “In Korangini, where the mishap occurred, there should have been at least five or six guides. But, there was only one guide for the 40-member team. Best guides are forest dwellers who are familiar with forest. Everybody in the team should follow instructions of the guide. In Korangini, the team got scattered as they advanced and the only guide they had was with one of the groups. So, others in the team couldn’t get instructions on how to escape,” said Shyamkumar.
 
 According to K S Shine of tourism department, they have already framed guidelines for trekking and tented accommodation. “We are awaiting approval from the government. We have also plan to limit the entry of jeeps to Kolukkumala to 74 a day. This would keep the number of trekkers less than 1,000 a day. We would also be introducing batch system,” Shine said.
 
 C P   of Travel Operators' Association of Kerala said many of the lesser known tourism locations in the state lack proper safety measures. “The government should conduct safety audit and create an action plan. There should be programmes to create awareness among tourists regarding their safety,” Ajith Kumar said.
 
 In beaches like Puthuvyppu and Kuzhuppilly near Vypeen, there are no lifeguards. The beach lack even proper lighting. “We have provided safety measures in Cherai and Munambam,” said Vijayakumar, secretary, district tourism promotion council (DTPC), Ernakulam.
 
 In Thattekad, where restrictions on tourists were imposed following boat a tragedy in 2007 which claimed 18 lives, tourism has regained momentum. “Licence from irrigation department is mandatory for conducting boating in Thattekkad. It is unfortunate that many of the tourists are still reluctant to wear life jackets,” said an official with tourism department said.
 
