PANAJI: In his first direct communication to his party workers in the state after he went to the US for medical treatment, chief minister Manohar   said in a video message that he expects to be in Goa “within the next few weeks”.

 “Last two months, because of my health, as I am undergoing treatment, I could not be amidst you. The treatment that I am undergoing has been successful and seeing this, I expect that within the next few weeks I will be able to be among you,” Parrikar said in his message to over 16,000 booth party workers in the presence of   national president Amit Shah here on Sunday.
 
 Parrikar, who left for the US in early March, in his 1:51-minute recorded message told the party workers to ensure that BJP wins both the Lok Sabha seats from Goa by a huge margin and urged them to start work immediately for the general elections.
 
 “The coming year is an extremely important one as the 2019 polls are to take place in April or May. And in the country we need Narendra Modi’s government to be elected with a clear majority. To be able to achieve this, both seats in Goa should be won with a large majority,” said Parrikar, to a loud applause at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium.
 
 Later, Shah told the gathering that he would return to Goa to address an even bigger meeting of party workers to welcome Parrikar when he returns from the US after completing his treatment.
 
 “As soon as I called him today, the first thing he asked me after exchanging greetings was, ‘Amitbhai what will happen in Karnataka?’ I told him don’t worry, BJP is going to form a government with absolute majority in  . As soon as I told him that I am coming to this sammelan in Goa, he immediately said that he is missing Goa’s booth karyakartas. I said you become fit again and return, then we will have an even bigger meeting on a larger ground and I will return to welcome you back along with the karyakartas,” Shah said.
 
 He said that during his telephonic conversation with Parrikar on Sunday, he assured Parrikar that ‘no work in Goa is held up’.
 
 “I told him that even in your absence, the   leaders come to Delhi to meet Modi and are in touch with the Centre even regarding the smallest of issues pertaining to Goa,” he said.
 
 Shah also said that both he and Parrikar moved to Delhi around the same time—he became the national president of BJP, while Parrikar took over the defence portfolio. Shah said he had closely seen Parrikar’s style of functioning “with an administrative grip” and how he has managed to establish “Goan pride” in the country.
 
 “After the surgical strikes, India came to be known as a country which is the only one after Israel and the US which is capable of retaliating when its soldiers are killed,” said Shah, asking the karyakartas to learn from Parrikar how to be an ideal party worker.
 
 
