NEW DELHI: A criminal complaint was filed against BJP youth wing leader   for allegedly admitting on social media to burning down a   in the national capital last Sunday.

 
  The complaint was filed by public interest lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan. "No action by Delhi Police to register a case and arrest him and no action by BJP to remove him from the party," Bhushan tweeted as he posted a copy of the criminal complaint filed against Chandela on his Twitter account.
 
  
  
 In the complaint, Bhushan attached screenshots of tweets showing Chandela boasting about his involvement in the fire which gutted the camp in Delhi's Kalindi Kunj area last Sunday.
 
  On April 15, Chandela (@CHANDELA_BJYM) had replied to a tweet reporting on the fire in the camp — "Well done by our heroes."
 
  "Yes we burnt the houses of the Rohingya terrorists," he added.
  
  
 A day later, the complaint alleges that Chandela again tweeted under the hashtag "RohingyaQuitIndia" and wrote - "Yes we did it and do it again".
 
  His account is no longer active on Twitter.
  
  
 
  Prior to Bhushan's complaint, the All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat (AIMMM) on Thursday had written to Delhi Police Commissioner Amulya Patnaik seeking appropriate action against Chandela.
 
  "This is to bring it to your notice that Manish Chandela, who is a member of the BJP's youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), has openly claimed on his Twitter handle '@Chandela_BJYM' that 'Yes, we burnt the houses of Rohingya terrorists'," the AIMMM, an umbrella body of various Muslim organisations, said in the letter.
 
 The AIMMM too attached screenshots of Chandela's tweets wherein he claimed to have set the camp on fire.
 
  A fire had broken out at the refugee camp near Kalindi Kunj in south Delhi on the intervening night of April 14 and 15 that quickly engulfed the whole camp in which more than 200 residents of the camp lost all their belongings, including identity cards and special visas issued by the United Nations.
 
  "The open claim on social media by the culprit is a challenge to the Delhi Police and all other law enforcement agencies. The tweet was posted immediately after the fire in the refugee camp... We demand immediate arrest of Manish Chandela under appropriate sections of the IPC," AIMMM said in the letter signed by its president Navaid Hamid.
 
  The Rohingyas are mostly Muslim ethnic in Myanmar, who are fleeing the northwestern province of Rakhine where they are facing persecution.
 
