KOLKATA: For the last seven days he has been  , exactly how he did five decades ago. From finalizing the menu to ordering the garland for the bride, everything reminded him of the days when she had decided to marry him — against her family’s wish. But this time, 83-year-old   was   of 55 years to jog her   about the long journey the   had taken together.

 Gita Nandi, 81, however, barely murmured a few words as the couple exchanged garlands at their Rabindranagar residence at Dum Dum. Alzheimer’s has slowly wiped off her memory over the last seven years. “As a practising doctor, she could remember details of her patients even six months after seeing them. But when the disease struck her, she could not even recollect our relatives,” said Nandi.
 
 It had been a busy life for the Dum Dum couple till she was diagnosed with the early stage of Alzheimer’s seven years back. Nandi, a Botany professor, remained busy with his students and Gita was involved in social service. After she retired from B R Singh Hospital, Gita joined politics.
 
 “She was nominated the chairman-in-council for the municipality, and that kept her very busy throughout the day. One day, she complained that she was forgetting things. I thought it was quite normal with
 
 ageing. But it started getting worse and I suspected it was something else,” Nandi said. Over the next few years, she gradually lost every memory she had.
 
 “We fell in love against her parents’ wishes. She used to attend my tuition classes and I got drawn towards her. Maybe her parents perhaps wanted to marry her off to someone rich and successful, not a botany professor,” he recounted. The duo married at Nandi’s ancestral house in Dum Dum with only Gita’s cousin present at the event. Gita continued to study medicine and became a doctor three years later.
 
 “We would fight, but that would not last long because I could not deal with her silence,” Nandi said. On Sunday, oblivious to the occasion, a silent Gita draped in a Benarasi plucked flowers from her garland.
 
 After she was diagnosed, doctors had advised Nandi to take his wife to their ancestral place in Bangladesh. But that did not help her. Then the doctor suggested he enact their wedding and see if it aids her memory.
 
 The childless couple have used all of their savings to set up a charitable trust that funds needy students. They have even vacated the first floor of their two-storey house for the trust.
 
 “Fear grips me at times. Both of us have grown old. What happens if I am unable to take care of her? But when I see the hint of a smile in her eyes, I forget every fear,” said the octogenarian groom, with an arm around his bride.
 
