GADCHIROLI: C-60 commandos, in the limelight for having eliminated 39 Maoist cadres in two encounters last week in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district, have several unique characteristics that separate them from their other forces engaged in combating the left wing extremists in the country.

 C-60 commandos, conceptualized by then additional DG KP   (now retired) when he was SP in Gadchiroli district in 1989-90, are the only district-level force in the country formed out of indigenous tribal population. Others, like Greyhounds of   and AP and Special Operations Group (SOG) of Odisha, are state-level units.
 
 The unit, having a tagline ‘Veerbhogya Vasundhara’ or (The Brave Rule the World), owe their name to the fact that there were only 60 commandos when the squad was formed. They are well-acquainted with the local terrain and also speak local language. This gives them an upper hand over the Maoists formations of Gadchiroli, most of which are led by Andhra or Telangana-based leaders.
 
 Formed with the idea of using local populations of the remote district to take on Maoists cadres, who also are tribals, the C-60 commandos unit began functioning with 15 teams. It now has 24 parties or teams divided between Gadchiroli headquarters (14) and Aheri’s Pranhita headquarters (10) in the southern part of the district which, in terms of size, is bigger than many north-eastern states and the national capital Delhi.
 
 Nine parties of C-60 commandos are stationed in adjoining district of Gondia where some parts are affected by the rebel movement.
 
 The commandos’ latest act of having gunned down 33 Maoists at Rale-Kasnasur-Boriya forest in a single encounter was no fluke. The unit has now evolved from a raw force to being more advanced troopers trained to handle and manage latest weaponry and gadgets.
 
 Besides, it also has exposure to best practices and exercises of other states’ units in addition to their own well-conceived skills.
 
 Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said C-60 was the only force in the country facing Maoists that collects, collates and analyzes information and also engages in operations. “The commandos also organize several civic programmes, bridge gap between locals and police, and motivate local population to have faith in the government,” he said.
 
 “It’s the iron cutting iron with Gadchiroli’s C-60 commandos fighting the local tribals in Maoists formations as they are equally tenacious, knowledgeable about the terrain, and equally aggressive,” said the SP.
 
 Another officer said, “If the Maoists can thrive for days in forest without proper food and water, move around tactically and skillfully in dense woods and also consume leaves and plants for survival, so can the C-60 commandos if need be. In rains or in summer heat, with shoes on or barefoot, they can jump from rocks and into rivers and fearlessly fight till the end.”
 
 DIG (Naxal range) Ankush Shinde said several veteran C-60 commandos had been summoned back from different units to help in collecting information and assist in the operations. “They are local tribals who can forge strong bonds with local population. They cultivate sources of information which is being developed using sophisticated technologies leading to pinpointed inputs about presence and movement of Maoist cadres,” he said.
 
 The commandos are chosen after they pass certain tests devised to gauge their calibre, mentality, capacity, tenacity and other parameters.
 
 Deshmukh said C-60 was again the only force whose squads are known by the names of their commander. “We identify parties as Motiram Madavi party, Chinnaventa Party and so on,” he said.
 
 DIG Shinde added that the commanders were allowed to handpick their team members. “Commanders are chosen from each region and then allowed to form their own teams. They select persons who they feel are fit to work with them. We then help to train them and build a cohesive and well-knit squad,” said Shinde.
 
 Additional SP of Gadchiroli, Maheswar Reddy, who has handled operations in the district in the past, highlighted another unique fact about the unit. “In C-60 unit, one need not become an officer to lead the squad. Those who lead are also part of the constabulary. After a successful stint, they are rewarded with accelerated promotions,” he said.
 
 Last year, C-60 commander Motiram Madavi, a veteran of several successful encounters, was awarded rank of sub-inspector. C-60 commandos had surpassed their record of 2013 by gunning down eight Maoist cadres at Kalled in December 2017, which until then was the biggest success of the unit.
 
 It took just three-and-a-half months for them to set a new benchmark of inflicting casualties that none in the country has so far achieved, including the more celebrated units like Greyhounds. Their feat has been lauded even by stalwarts like former CRPF DG  , considered one of the most experienced campaigners against Naxalites.
 
 C-60 commandos had been such serious challenge for the Maoists that they last year directed their propaganda towards the commandos saying they were acting against their own tribal brethren who were fighting to save local population from exploitation. The commandos responded by further intensifying their operations.
 
 “They will not have our mercy until they surrender and return to mainstream. We are not denying they are tribals but then why do they kill other tribals and also police personnel from same district?” asked a commando.
 
 He admitted that there were several families in the district having one cousin in C-60 unit while the other had joined Maoists. “We may be relatives but our goals are different and we remain enemies as long as they have weapons in hands,” the commando said.
 
 
