NAGPUR/WARDHA: The BJP, which is already drawing flak for ignoring farmers’ issues, may face more problems on this front with 110   organizations planning a nationwide strike from June 1 to 10. Their demands include higher rates for produce, complete loan waiver, payouts to small farmers to match their income with that of a class IV government employee and lifting the ban on cow slaughter. 

 The   has sent letters to political parties, including the BJP, seeking their support.
 
 A meeting was organized by the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh — an umbrella organization of all the 110 outfits — at Gandhi Ashram in Wardha on Wednesday. Modalities of the 10-day agitation were discussed during the meet. In lines with what happened in Maharashtra last year, farmers will be told to stop selling their produce including milk and vegetables during the period.
 
 Among the leaders of the June strike is Dhananjay Dhorde-Patil who led the first agitation at Puntamba village in Ahmednagar district. It later culminated into a major strike with the state government declaring the loan waiver plan.
 
 The Mahasangh has also claimed the support of former Union minster Yashwant Sinha who quit the BJP recently. Rashtriya Kisan Manch, the outfit floated by former Prime Minister VP Singh, is also a part of the alliance. From Madhya Pradesh, the organizations which led the strike in 2017 when 6 farmers were killed in a police firing at Mansaur district, will also participate in the agitation.
 
 Sources in farmers’ organizations, which have stayed away from the agitation, say though the alliance is a group of largely old-timers, the support cannot be underestimated. “There is a likelihood of the movement getting a political backing. The Mahasangh has sought support of political parties which may see it as a good opportunity to get some mileage,” said a veteran farmer activist. 
 
 However, MP Raju Shetti, of the Swabhiman Shetkari Sangathana which took part in the state’s agitation for loan waiver, said his organization will be staying away from the strike. Doubting the credentials of the organizers, he said, “None of the 193 farmer organizations that I know will be taking part in the agitation. I don’t know from where this 110 outfits have emerged from.” Shetti also alleged the likelihood of “RSS having infiltrated its elements” in the movement.
 
 Sandeep Gite-Patil, the convener for Maharashtra and Gujarat, said, “The major demand is to fix a minimum support price (MSP) by including a notional rent of land, capital expenditure on assets like tractor or borewells apart from operating expenses. The margins should include 50% profit and 10% management expenses. The centre should also come up with a complete waiver scheme irrespective of the loan amount.” He claimed to have got support of different organization across the two states.
 
 Shivkumar Sharma, the leader from Madhya Pradesh, said action will be demanded against the policemen alleged to have beaten two farmers to death during last year’s agitation. “The state has not taken any action against the policemen so far,’ he said.
 
  of Rashtriya Kisan Manch claimed that the agitation has got major ground level support due to a number of organization coming together. “There will be awareness rallies at village levels to gather farmers’ support,” he said.
 
 Activists also said the ban on cow slaughter has left many harried. “We are left with a large number of unproductive livestock,” said one activist.
 
 
