New Delhi: They are two of the finest No. 3s to have played the game. Just 90 Test runs separate   and Rahul Dravid. Their impact as coaches, however, could come down to the current Delhi Daredevil team’s performance in the IPL.

 
 
 
 
 For the last two seasons, the team has been undergoing a period of transition under Dravid. The word ‘process’ has dominated proceedings, like it had at one point in Indian cricket, and Dravid has been at the centre of this philosophy. The likes of   and   have formed the core of the Daredevils, which has evolved under Dravid in the last two years.
 
 Now, however, Dravid’s exit because of conflict-of-interest issues has led to the arrival of Ponting in the coaching position. The Aussie great’s energy and urgency of approach has, by all accounts, immediately caught the fancy of DD youngsters who have learnt the ropes from Dravid.
 
 
 
 
 
 Dravid, the designated custodian of Indian cricket, has his wards from India U-19s and ‘A’ team spread across the teams “Ricky is very aggressive. The first time he spoke to us he gave us goosebumps. Everyone who comes in talks generally about the process,” said Iyer, clearly in awe of Ponting. “This guy talks about winning the tournament and doesn’t mention the process and that has lifted the entire team.”
 
 On Monday, Ponting was his usual busy self. One moment he was on is haunches giving tips to Iyer on how to approach a knock in the middle, and in the next he was talking to wicketkeeper Naman Ojha, explaining match situations and skipping around the ground as if he was still leading a side in a big match.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Iyer, Pant, Vijay Shankar and Jayant Yadav have all earned the India cap in the ast one year. All are graduates of the Dravid school of thought. Now, it seems these players are transitioning to Ponting’s energetic new approach. “Rahul Dravid is more calm and cool. He likes to be in the process. He likes to nurture the kids, grooming the youngsters,” Iyer said and then reframed his statement. “Ponting is obviously opposite but same frame of mind.”
 
 Iyer doesn’t mind conceding Ponting is more intent on injecting an Australian culture in the Indian boys. A stint with the Indian senior team may have prompted this realization. “The atmosphere in the Indian dressing room is more similar to what Ponting is doing here,” Shankar said, drawing a parallel. “There’s freedom to express yourself. Only one thing is spoken about: how we can keep winning.”
 
 Iyer made a specific point. “By aggression we mean freedom. Ponting doesn’t talk about technique or skill,” he said.
 
 Terms like ‘atmosphere’, ‘good communication’ and ‘gelling’ may carry a more flamboyant meaning for these boys now. But then, there is a ‘process’ leading up to this point.
 
 
