BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday countered Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “10% commission sarkar” jibe at his government, saying the BJPled NDA government at the Centre is “90% commission sarkar”.

  had said this recently during a public rally in the poll-bound state.
 
 Replying to a debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address to joint houses of legislature, the chief minister said he can also make several such allegations against the BJP without providing any evidence.
 
 “As per law, those who level charges are also accountable to prove the charges he or she is making. If Modi is calling my government ‘10% sarkar’, he should do so by substantiating it with valid proof. It should not be a hit-and-run case like BJP and Modi are doing,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 The CM said his government does not need any lessons on clean governance from a party which had “four ministers in jail for corruption”. Nirav Modi fled the country with Rs 11,000 crore, Vijay Mallya with Rs 9,000 crore and   with thousands of crores. All three were close to BJP leaders. Who is responsible for this?’’ he added.
 
 “How can Modi make such an irresponsible remark against our government while sharing the dais with their party’s chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa, who has gone to jail on corruption charges?” he added.
 
 
 
 The chief minister’s remarks triggered a heated argument between BJP and   members in the House. For about 20 minutes, there were stormy scenes as Siddaramaiah and opposition leaders traded corruption charges against each other. Opposition leader Jagadish Shettar accused the state government of being No. 1 in corruption, murder and goondagiri, referring to the Mohammed Nalapad Haris and ‘petrol’ Narayanaswamy cases.
 
 He also demanded that the government table the   report in the House, alleging that Siddaramaiah had been indicted in the Arkavathy denotification case.
 
 “The people have not forgotten your Hublot watch case, bed and pillow scam, sand mining scam, illegal mining scam among others,” the BJP members charged and shouted, “Mooru bittava oorige doddava (One who sheds shame, honour and respect, is a big man in town)” before staging a walkout.
 
 Countering opposition charges, Siddaramaiah said he would soon make the Kempanna Commission report public because he had learnt that the report had given a clean chit to his government.
 
 In the council later, Siddaramaiah said his government’s schemes like Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya and   have eradicated the begging menace in Karnataka.
 
 Siddaramaiah said making Karnataka hunger free was his goal and he achieved it to a great extent through Anna Bhagya and other schemes. “Besides eradicating begging, these schemes have also stopped migration and addressed malnutrition,’’ he claimed.
 
 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah and opposition leader K S Eshwarappa locked horns over release of the caste census report carried out by the government two years ago.
 
 Eshwarappa alleged that the government is meting out injustice to backward classes and dalits by not making the census report public.
 
 Taking exception, the CM said the government has asked the Backward Classes Commission to give a report on increasing the reservation cap from 50% to 70%. “Once we get that, we will announce the caste census report,” he said.
 
 
 
