As september began, all of Tamil Nadu was grieving the loss of Seventeen year old Anitha…her life snuffed out before it had even begun. Anitha’s story is that of a broken heart… A Supreme Court verdict that shattered a lifelong dream… and a state’s betrayal of its students.   did not just die because she had failed; She died because the state had failed her.

 During the same time, another Anitha’s inspiring story got washed away in our tears and went barely noticed. Here too, there was a seventeen-year pursuit. Here too , there was a Supreme court verdict. But This one brought joy and vindication to one of Tamil Nadu’s most overlooked sportstars. Anitha Pauldurai, the most famous hoopster ever to come out of Tamil Nadu, will finally be recognised for her achievements in basketball with the   this year. Although she had been consistently recommended for the award year after year by both the state sport authority and by the basketball federation, the honour had been eluding her for reasons that defy all logic. In This year’s Arjuna awards selection, Anitha’s staggering achievements were ignored in favour of Delhi girl Prashanti Singh, in a decision that sent shockwaves through Basketball circles. Ultimately, it was only after Anitha approached the court has her long due recognition finally been accorded to her. The supreme court has directed that even though the awards have already been finalised for this year, the Government of India should confer on Anitha Pauldurai her award this year itself. So at least that's a happy ending to all that struggle.
 
 The question is , Why did Anitha have to fight it out on her own buck? Shouldn't TN sport bodies have backed her to the hilt at every step of the way? After all, this was as much a fight for the state’s glory as it was for her personal recognition. Every medal that our athletes win, every honour that our sportsters get, adds to the tally of the state on the whole. In fact, we should be actively lobbying for its sports community in the national arena , and actively cultivating future generations of winners. Instead , the government only doles out apathy . In a state whose denizens celebrate outsiders such as Dhoni and even foreigners such as Matthew Hayden as their own, Anitha PaulDurai should have been a state treasure. Anyone with her record — an international career spanning 17 years, an unbeatable eleven national titles , triumphs at every possible international competition short of the Olympics, and several glories helming Tamil Nadu women’s basketball team… ought to have enjoyed superhero status , at least in her own hometown. Anitha is a Chennai Girl who works for Railways. She most recently captained the Indian national team to Gold at the FIBA championships.Most admirably, She is a mother who returned to her chosen sport with aplomb and succeeded. This is the kind of role model that the state needs to adopt and make famous.
 
 While states like Telengana and Andhra pradesh celebrate their sports women with gusto, making brand ambassadors out of   and Sania, Tamil Nadu is by and large indifferent to its sportswomen. Wait, I take that back. Tamil Nadu- her leaders and her people- has been largely indifferent to all its athletes, gender notwithstanding. Save cricketers, we really dont have any home-grown sport icons, and that's a shame to the state that Vishwanathan Anand , Mariappan Thangavelu and Ramesh Krishnan call home. 
 
 While states like Karnataka incentivise their winning athletes with land grants and cars, Tamil Nadu lags seriously behind even in encouraging and employing achievers through Sports Quota. How many people can put a face to Sathish Sivalingam, Champion weightlifter and   Gold winner? He hails from Vellore, but it was left to the railways to employ and patronise him. I recently had the honor of meeting and interacting with G Lakshmanan, The fleet-footed sensation that won double gold at the recent Asian Athletic federation meet. His coach , Mr Loganathan is a remarkable man , who has been churning out world-class runners from Pudhukottai in spite of an appalling lack of facilities and equipment. His pleas for a basic running track in the area still remain unresolved. Promises are made only to be forgotten. Not surprisingly, Laxmanan is a Havildar in the Indian Army.
 
 We measure a state’s wealth by accounting for its natural resources, industrial strength and economic output. What we forget is that the true wealth of any nation and any state are its people. Be it a teenager with dreams of becoming a doctor, or a runner with Olympic dreams, It is the state’s duty to protect their future. By denying them their due, we are robbing ourselves of our own wealth. It is time Tamil Nadu to pulled up its socks. It's time for Tamilnadu to take responsibility for all our Anithas.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
 
