NEW DELHI: Calling Prime Minister  's speech in Parliament as a "campaign speech",   president   accused the   mascot of ducking questions on joblessness among youth, farm crisis, threat to security from Pakistan and China, and alleged corruption in Rafale fighter deal. 

 Mocking Modi's aggression against Congress, Rahul said, "The truth is the PM does not know how to take India forward. That is why he always reaches into the past... We expected a vision. Instead, we got a visionless election speech. It did not have the gravitas or maturity you would expect of the PM." 
 
 Rahul said the speech was "an attempt at diverting the nation's attention from these problems". According to the Congress chief, Modi dodged the Rafale deal that he had personally inked and issued a red herring of providing bamboo and honey bees to farmers in place of talking about their demand of better support price and debt waiver to farmers. 
 
  He said in Parliament, Modi should be answering questions being asked by the citizens and cannot pose questions to the country. "We are happy with the PM to be obsessed with the Congress. but it is a disservice for our PM to spend so much time on Congress and so little on the future of the nation. The nation expects the PM to respond with seriousness towards its problems." 
 
  For the second day running, the Gandhi scion focussed on alleged corruption in Rafale purchase. "In the Rafale deal, there has been corruption and the PM is protecting those who have done corruption," he said, adding, "The PM talked for one hour but did not utter a single word about the Rafale deal." "We had three clear questions - You changed the contract in Paris, did you ask the cabinet committee on security and what price have you paid for the aircraft," he said. "It is simple. But answers are not coming," he added. 
 
  Rahul lamented that the PM was mum on the issue while the defence minister has dubbed the information as confidential .   said the PM was only repeating old claims and not addressing the problems facing the country. "People are interested about their jobs, they want to know about their future," she said. 
 
 
