LUDHIANA: When the Center is spending huge amount on subsidies for building toilets across the country, Ludhiana, which has around 350 female cops working in different police stations, has ladies washrooms only at three police stations. 

 This issue was raided by the female cops during Woman Police Conference on Empowerment and Self Development organized by local police administration with   FLO on Thursday. The female cops have also shared experiences of having inadequate work environment when they have to face embarrassment because of the abusive language used by male cops, unintentionally.
 
 On Thursday, the Ludhiana police administration under Police Public foundation with   for woman empowerment and self development. During this, the female cops discussed the work environment at police stations.
 
 Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP- Headquarter) Rupinder Kaur   said that out of total 30 police stations in commissionarate, only three have washroom facility for female cops.
 
 She added, “The matter has been brought to my notice that in the absence of washrooms the female cops have to make arrangements in nearby areas. In some cases the SHOs allow them to use their personal washroom.”
 
 The official highlighted that the female cops feel uncomfortable and face embarrassment when male cops, unintentionally, use abusive language, while interacting. The cops also shared the difficulty in commuting late night and going on raids with male cops at night hours.
 
 ACP Bhatti added, “During late night raids female cops feel uncomfortable with male cops. They demanded that at least two female cops be included in raid teams. Further the problem of the absence of female barracks was also highlighted. Not all police stations have female barracks or lockups.”
 
 Along with this the cops have also demanded the facility of transportation during night hours.
 
 The official added that all these issues would be included in a memorandum that would be sent to the Director General of Police (DGP-  ) Suresh Arora though the Commissioner of Police RN Dhoke.
 
 Police Commissioner RN Dhoke said, “I am aware of the issue of ladies washrooms in police stations. A week ago I have ordered the ADCP - Headquarter, Sandeep Garg, to get ladies washrooms constructed in all police stations.”
 
