Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 Actress  , who is playing the female lead in Tigmanshu Dhulia’s  , being shot in Lucknow these days, was spotted by LT as she went for an outing around town with her parents Colonel Srinath and  . We spotted Shraddha and her parents enjoying shikanji and chhole-bhature at a popular restaurant on Shahnajaf Road. 
 Having made a niche for herself in the south Indian film industry, Shraddha, who is making her   debut with Dhulia's film, is visiting Lucknow for the first time. The Bengaluru based actress was happy on getting a break from the hectic shooting schedule, "Aaj mera free din hai as I am not shooting today toh I thought to have lunch outside, go shopping and then have chaat. Somebody told me about the chhole-bhature of this place so I came here and they are really good," said Shraddha, who has been shooting in the city for the past several days. 
 Ask the U-Turn actress, what all she has explored in the city till now and she said, "  time hi kahan mila hai! I haven’t been able to explore much of Lucknow. The shooting leaves us with no time. It’s been 10 days but kal hum gaye thay raat mein for an outing. I went out with my parents to see the city and had very tasty paan in Hazratganj."
 She added, "But from whatever I have seen so far, I love this city. It has got the most amazing balance of the old world charm and a developed city and the food here is incredible. I am here for another week and I am looking forward to exploring the city more."
 Talking about how she bagged the lead role in the film starring Lucknowite Ali Fazal, whose film was recently nominated for an Oscar, Shraddha shared, "It was just by chance that I came to know of the audition for this film and I appeared for it and got selected.” Quiz her about her Bollywood plans and she promptly replied, “I have zero plans for Bollywood as of now. I will take things as they come. As of now, I am happy shooting for this film."
 Sharing her film journey, the   and Tamil films actress said, "I was a law student when I started acting in plays. I was a real estate lawyer but I continued acting on stage because that is what gave me a lot of happiness. Films just happened by chance. I had no interest in films or acting as a heroine, but that’s a long story. My first film was a   film where I played a small character and then my big debut happened in Kannada, which is also my mother tongue, in 2016, U-Turn and since then my life has taken a different turn altogether," said the actress with a big smile. 
 
 
  
  Shraddha Srinath went for an outing in Lucknow with her parents, Colonel Srinath and Rama Srinath. The trio was spotted eating chhole-bhature at a popular eating joint opposite   mall (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Shraddha Srinath went for an outing in Lucknow with her parents, Colonel Srinath and Rama Srinath. The trio was spotted eating chhole-bhature at a popular eating joint opposite Sahara Ganj mall (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
 
