MALAPPURAM: A mosque committee has come forward to help a dalit girl from a remote village in Puzhakkattiri near   continue her studies in a nursing college after she was threatened with expulsion over unpaid fees.

 Sathyavani, a third year BSc nursing student at a   college, had to pay up more than Rs 60,000 pending fees and had no other option but to discontinue her studies when help came unexpectedly from the mosque committee.
 
 While   was returning home last week of March, the college authorities had warned her that if she did not remit the fees immediately, she would be dismissed.
 
 The girl, living along with her mother, a daily wage worker, had lost all her hopes after her efforts to raise funds with the support of local organisations, including political parties, did not yield any result.
 
 As a final attempt before taking a decision on the discontinuation of course, on April 2, Sathyavani, along with her mother Shantha, walked into the local mosque in her village, seeking financial assistance and the response was surprising.
 
 Within two days, the   committee raised the required fund and remitted Rs 83,000 at the college office the next day.
 
 “The financial support provided by the   committee was a huge relief to me and my family, said Sathyavani. “At the time of joining the college three years ago, we were hopeful that we can arrange an annual fee of around Rs 1 lakh. But, the unexpected death of my father two years ago, dashed all our hopes. My mother struggled a lot to meet the huge expense of my education. College authorities warned me several times and told me that I could not continue my studies if I do not pay my fees on time,” she said, adding that for the members of the mosque committee.
 
 Secretary of Puzhakkatiri Mahallu committee, K Moidy said the response of the Mahallu committee’s request to donate fund to support Sathyavani was overwhelming. “The committee had convened a meeting immediately after the girl and her mother approached us. Committee president Muhammed Musaliyar and several others offered financial support at the meeting. But later, a person who wished to remain anonymous, donated the entire amount and the committee remitted Rs 83,000 as tuition and hostel fee at the college office,” he said.
 
