Breaking free from the monotony of office, these Noida-based professionals have found an offbeat way of spending their weekends – they have enrolled in   classes. We speak to some such working professionals who are amateur actors who tell us that these classes not only help them showcase their creative side, but also act as a stressbuster and help them in unwinding after a hectic schedule at work. 
 
 
 
 Jalaj Agarwal, a software engineer and a Noida resident, who recently played a protagonist – a   buff and a romantic – in a play recently held in Noida, says, “Playing roles like this is so much fun. It helps me in unwinding and is a refreshing break from work. While prepping for this role, I used to take out time from office and hear a lot of retro hits and popular filmi dialogues on repeat mode to get the diction and dialogue delivery right.”
 
 He adds, “On weekdays, I have a hectic schedule from 10am to 8pm. So I was looking for an offbeat way of spending my weekend rather than just sleeping throughout the day. One day while mall-hopping in sector 25A, I came across a theatre group in Noida and decided to join it. I hail from   and earlier, I would go back to my hometown but now, my weekend plans have changed and I stay back on the weekends and do my rehearsals. Sometimes, my wife also joins in.”
 
  
  Drama class in Noida
 
 
 
 For Aarohi Tyagi, a dietician and resident of Sector 93, the theatre has been a bonding exercise, where she has made friends with her co-actors. “Meeting and acting with people from different work profiles has helped me improve my communication skills, body movements, gestures and postures, and has inculcated team spirit in me. Now, I look forward to spending my weekends doing something creative. We mostly meet on weekends, where we act, improvise, play impromptu roles, share ideas and listen to other.”
 
 
 Kanu Priya, a resident of Sector 137 and writer, director and choreographer, who runs a theatre and performing arts society in Sector 132, says, “Most of my students are working professionals from Noida. I feel working with amateur actors or people with no formal acting experience leads to all things dramatic and funny and the best part about them is that such working professionals aren’t egotistical at all. They are inquisitive and ask a lot of questions about the character they are playing and the theme of the play. When we meet up for the rehearsals, they not only interacting with each other but also help their co-actors with their roles and improvisations.”
 
 She adds, “When working with these professionals, I try to keep the dialogues as simple as possible. If we are working on a comic play, where the theme is light and fun, not much improvisation is needed but when working on powerful subjects like domestic violence, sexuality, etc we do a lot of improvisations. In fact, most of our classes become a platform of discussion on varied issues and humans, which we otherwise do not discuss in our regular lives.”
 
 Gaurav Nanda, theatre actor and a method acting training coach, who runs a studio in Noida, Sector 30, says, “One of the biggest challenges that I face while training corporates is that initially, they have their own mental blocks. For instance, if during improvisation sessions, if their character demands flirting with a girl or using abusive language, they aren’t that open to the idea of doing so. However, during the course of training, they open up.”
 
  
  While Aarohi Tyagi is a dietician, Ashish Banerji is a banker. After office, these Noida professionals meet to rehearse for their plays
 
 
 
 Nikhil Verma, an animation and graphics artist who lives in  , says, “I, along with some other theatre artists, had once performed a street play on women’s empowerment in a residential society in Noida. More Noida societies should take initiatives for holding theatre workshops or hosting street plays. In fact, before Boards or any other exams and during summer vacations, societies can hold theatre workshops for the students to relax as it helps in increasing productivity.”
 
 Being a working professional, Nikhil ensures that he takes out a couple of hours every day to cater to his passion for acting. He says, “On weekdays, I wrap up my work by 5.30pm-6pm and then from 6pm till 11pm, I dedicate my time brushing my acting skills. Being a graphics designer, I design characters/cartoons and while doing so I understand the background and story behind it, similarly, while acting or directing a play, I have to understand the nuances of a character, its costumes and the storyline. So for me, both my profession and passion converge at some point.”
  
  
 
 Varinder Saini, a product manager who works in sector 132 and resident of sector 137, says, "Throughout the week, I have a hectic schedule and I am busy giving presentations and meeting clients. Joining a theatre class has been a great stress-buster for me. Thankfully, I have an understanding team and so, whenever a play is approaching and I have to dedicate more time to rehearsals, I leave early or take a day off. Sometimes, my colleagues even come to watch me act on play."
 
 
 
 Gunjan Shukla, Assistant General Manager, BHEL and resident of sector 93-A, says, "I have been 
  theatre since 2015, and I must say it has killed all monotony in my life. Theatre has made my evenings fun and meaningful and helped in increasing my focus and concentration."
 
 
 Anukriti Verma, a scientific assistant and choreographer 
 
 
 
 Ashish Banerji, a Noida-based banker, who joined a theatre class last month, says, "March is one of the most hectic months for banks but joining a theatre class helped me rejuvenate. Ever since my college days, I was always attracted towards theatre but Noida lacks performing spaces and even venues where one can watch plays. I once attended a play inspired by Anton Chekhov's stories staged at a Noida mall and that's when I decided to join a theatre class in Noida."
 
 — Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
