KOLKATA: Signs of a shift in CPM’s political line were evident in the draft political resolution placed on the first day of its Central Committee (CC) meeting here on Friday with former party general secretary   giving leeway to regional units to tie up with parties that may have an alliance with   in assembly elections.

 Karat’s going halfway without allowing regional units to go into a direct handshake with Congress in regional polls, like the Bengal CPM did in the 2016 assembly polls, is being seen in party circles as a “marriage of convenience” to hold the diverse poles together. 
 
 The former party general secretary has no problem with the CPM tactic in  , where it had tied up with M Karunanidhi’s DMK, then a Congress ally.
 
 However, many members in Bengal CPM didn’t like this “roundabout way” of joining hands with Congress when general secretary   harped on “transparency” in the party’s alliance approach at all levels — assembly and Lok Sabha. Some also felt it would be too early to spell out guidelines for alliance at the party congress scheduled in April, when there was more than a year to go for   polls. 
 
 “We have ready experience of the 2004 Lok Sabha polls, when CPM and Congress fought independently and then pledged support to the Congress-led UPA government based on a common minimum programme. Things are changing fast these days. We should keep an open-ended approach to fight  ,” a Bengal CPM leader said. 
 
 Karat proposed the change in electoral tactics at the regional level while introducing the draft political resolution to the CC. He held that there had been “major changes” in the country’s political course in the last three and a half years since the 21st party congress, with the BJP agenda coming up as the main threat. However,   didn’t spell out whether he had revised his understanding that all-in-one unity against BJP was not feasible as it had to include Congress and being the biggest opposition party, it would be heading such a formation.
 
 Most CC members agreed the Left couldn’t shape the alliance unless CPM improved on its strength and independent activity to carry the people against BJP. There were instances in the recently held bypoll results in Bengal where the vote share of Congress and CPM taken together was way behind Trinamool’s.
 
 Even as some discounted the results as too little to generalise as a trend, they couldn’t ignore the spike in the BJP vote bank in Bengal.
 
 
