NAGPUR: The   police claim to be unaware of any complaint by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) against the influential   Nagar-based Scientific Cooperative Housing Society. The Dhantoli police, however, insist that NIT’s complaint against the society was transferred to Bajaj Nagar police station on August 26, 2017. Interestingly, even NIT has not bothered to follow up on its complaint registered some 10 months ago.

 RTI activist TH Naidu had requested information under RTI Act regarding NIT’s complaint with Bajaj Nagar police station. Office of assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sonegaon, said in its reply dated January 15 that information related to NIT’s complaint was not found in the records of Bajaj Nagar police station. For the query regarding Dhantoli police station, the ACP forwarded the RTI application to ACP Sitabuldi.
 
 Naidu told TOI Dhantoli police station had informed him that NIT’s complaint was forwarded to Bajaj Nagar police station on August 26, 2017.
 
 TOI had, on April 23, 2015, reported how   sold two NIT plots — P-3 and P-4 — situated on RPTS Road at Laxmi Nagar to two builders. Later, Naidu obtained documents under the RTI Act and learnt the society had sold P-3 to Gandhi Builder and Narendra Gandhi, and P-4 to Decent Developers and  . The society had also executed an agreement of sale with the two builders on October 20, 1996, and sale deed on October 31, 2005. One of the two builders had even started construction work on the plot right under NIT’s nose.
 
 Then, Naidu had lodged a complaint with NIT demanding action against the society and the two builders. After this, NIT swung into action and demolished the construction done by the builder.
 
 After a series of complaints by Naidu, NIT also lodged a complaint with Dhantoli police station on March 20, 2017. Following Naidu’s appeal to state information commission (SIC), NIT had also lodged a complaint with Special Investigation Team (SIT) of police department on October 17, 2017.
 
 However, no action has been taken against the Scientific Society for selling two plots owned by NIT to third parties. “NIT had procured the two plots with public money. I obtained documents under RTI Act to prove the society executed sale deeds with two builders. It’s very strange no action is being taken against the society and all persons involved in the case even after three years,” Naidu said.
 
 Naidu said NIT’s complaint was forwarded to Bajaj Nagar police as per the records of Dhantoli police. “Earlier, Laxmi Nagar used to come under Dhantoli police station jurisdiction. Laxmi Nagar was transferred to Bajaj Nagar police station after its opening. NIT seems unaware of it, so it lodged complaint with Dhantoli police station. But NIT never took any follow up of its complaint in last 10 months,” he said.
 
 NIT official from west division said follow up will be taken from police for action against the society and also other responsible persons.
 
 TIMELINE
 
 Feb 22, 1952: NIT sanctions Scientific Society layout at Laxmi Nagar
 
 Apr 16, 1955: Society sells P-3 and P-4 plots to lawyer JP Behor
 
 Jany 8, 1964: NIT procures two plots from Behor to widen RPTS Road
 
 Oct 20, 1996: Society executes agreement to sale with two builders to sell P-3 and P-4 plots
 
 Oct 31, 2005: Society executes sale deed with two builders
 
 Feb 23, 2015: RTI activist TH Naidu files RTI application after seeing construction on one plot
 
 Apr 23, 2015: TOI exposes society sold two NIT plots to builders
 
 Mar 20, 2017: NIT lodges complaint with Dhantoli police station against society, others
 
 Aug 26, 2017: Dhantoli police send NIT complaint to Bajaj Nagar police station
 
 Jan 15, 2018: Bajaj Nagar police says no such complaint in its records
 
 
