SHIMLA: Following a rout in the assembly elections last year, the   has selected Mandi, where it drew blank, to launch its campaign for the parliamentary election. The party would hold a day-long convention in the district on March 3 and has invited leaders from all 68 assembly constituencies for the same. The Congress also wants to launch an aggressive campaign against the BJP government from the home district of chief minister  . 

 This is for the first time that Congress is holding such a convention outside Shimla. Sources said the party wants to rejuvenate its cadre in the district ahead of polls.
 
 Besides state leaders, party's state in-charge Sushil Kumar Shinde and co-in-charge Ranjeet Ranjan would also participate in the convention that is being held with the sole objective to chalk out a strategy for the 2019 parliamentary election. In 2014, Congress had lost all four seats of Hamirpur, Mandi, Shimla and Mandi.
 
 During the convention, the party would pass a resolution on poor law and order situation besides saffronization of educational institutions in the state under the BJP regime.
 
 Following the exit of former Union telecom minister Sukh Ram and his son Anil Sharma from the party, Congress roots have become weaker in Mandi while BJP seems to have gained with their entry.
 
 Right before the assembly election, Sukh Ram was not allowed to share the dais with party president   after which he decided to quit the party only to join BJP. Later, Congress lost all 10 assembly seats in the district. Around 400 leaders including state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu, former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and   (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri are expected to attend this convention.
 
 Sukhu said besides top state leadership, 40 young leaders, as many women leaders, zila parishad members, block development council members, district and block presidents of the party along with MLAs would attend this convention where points regarding 'Hisaab De Saansad, Jawab De Saansad' would be given to them while discussing the strategy for the parliamentary election.
 
 He said the basic idea to hold the convention outside Shimla was to rejuvenate the party cadre as the BJP has given a chief minister from the same district. 
 
 
