Tirunelveli: The Tirunelveli district administration is embarking on a campaign to check pollution of the Thamirabarani river. Based on an analysis of a sample survey on pollution of the river, the administration plans to address four key issues. Collector   told TOI that, “Garbage dumping and open defecation by residents on the banks of the river are worrisome. Besides, tourists and local people dumping plastics on the river needs to be addressed.”

 On Tuesday, the   that coordinated the study, handed over the preliminary report conducted on the banks of the river on March 10 along with a mass cleaning drive. 
 
 The   said not much sewage was flowing into the river as most houses had toilets with septic tanks. But open defecation on the river was still prevalent in most of the 68 spots on the banks where the survey was conducted.
 
 He said garbage dumping was rampant and this would be addressed in the next few days. A meeting has been arranged for officials heading the corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and panchayats that are located on the banks of the river across the stretch flowing through the district. “Requirements for big and small garbage bins in those localities will be analysed and they will be placed in a month,” he said.
 
 Nanduri felt that this would also prevent pollution by tourists and local people who dumped soap wrappers and shampoo and washing powder sachets that pollute the river every day. During the meeting, local bodies would also be asked to present the condition of public toilets and ways to make the defunct toilets functional. 
 
 Channelling water from bathrooms and kitchens is a more serious threat – both in the city and in rural areas – than open defecation and letting sewage into the river. The collector said suitable cost-effective methods to treat or reuse grey water have to be implemented. He hinted that it would not happen overnight.
 
 The administration has also started marking encroachments by establishments like brick kilns and farmers who have taken up temporary cultivation on the course of the river. 
 
 
