PATNA: City churches on Thursday observed a special communion service on the occasion of   that commemorates the Last Supper when Lord Jesus shared the Passover meal with his disciples on the night before he was crucified.

  William D’Souza SJ led the prayer service at the Catholic Church on Ashok Rajpath. Priests also observed a foot-washing ceremony on the occasion.
 
 “Lord Jesus washed the feet of his disciples as an act of humility and service. He set an example that we should love and serve one another in humility. We have kept the tradition alive to spread the message of love,” Fr  , secretary to the Patna Archbishop told this reporter.
 
 According to the Holy Bible, Maundy Thursday recalls the night Lord Jesus spent with his disciples having the Last Supper. Hours after the supper, he was betrayed by his disciple   and eventually crucified by Pontius Pilate. Maundy Thursday is part of the Holy Week which began with Palm Sunday. In contrast to joyful Easter celebrations when Christians worship their resurrected saviour, Maundy Thursday services are more solemn occasions marked by the shadow of Jesus’ betrayal.
 
 Devotees will offer Good Friday prayers in city churches on Friday. Many of them will also observe fast throughout the day and eat only after the veneration of the  . Special prayers will also be offered at the Padri-ki-haveli in Patna City and other parishes.
 
 Besides prayer services, processions and veiling of the Cross, another highlight of the day will be the enactment of the 14 Stations of the Cross which commemorate that commemorate Jesus Christ’s last day on earth as a man. Thousands of devotees will gather in the open-for-all procession which will begin from Padri-ki-haveli around 4pm.
 
 “Good Friday, which marks the day when Lord Jesus was crucified and died in Calvary, falls on the Friday right before Easter. It symbolizes the victory of good over evil and commemorates the passion and sacrifice of Christ,” Padri-ki-haveli priest Fr Suresh Xaxa OFM said.
 
 Good Friday will be followed by Holy Saturday and Easter Sunday.
 
 
