CHANDIGARH: For the past two years, Manimajra’s rusted underground pipes that were laid almost a quarter century ago have been carrying contaminated drinking   and sickness into homes.

 The leakage in the network is so serious that the civic authorities get quite a regular flow of complaints about the accumulation of slush in the neighbourhood parks laid over these ruptured pipes. The residents are tired of getting the seepage fixed over and over. Adding to their woes are the temporary, duct-tape solutions of the municipal corporation that cannot hold the leakage for long. Within a short time, the parks are flooded again.
 
  
  
 
 The resident welfare association (RWA) of Modern Housing Complex took a written representation to the municipal corporation and local Member of   (MP)   about the need to replace the water pipes at the earliest as these have completed more than their normal life span. The representation blames these punctured pipes for not only the damage to the neighbourhood parks but also the supply of muddy water to the residential areas. The petition says that these iron pipes are easy to rust and replacing the network is the only way out to provide the residents with safe drinking water.
 
 Apprised of the matter during her visit to Modern Housing Complex in November 2017, Kirron Kher had agreed to release money from her discretionary funds for the replacement of the pipelines. That promised help has not come, so far. In a recent meeting with the municipal corporation chief engineer, when the RWA raised the matter again, the officers concerned asked its representatives to go over to the MP and seek money for the project.
 
  president Colonel   said that on February 7, the association had dropped the MP a written reminder for the assistance and it was still waiting for a response. He said any public health department team that had inspected the water supply pipelines had found it beyond repair and “given the residents temporary solutions for a month or so”. Welding cannot hold these aged pipes together anymore. Every time the repair teams come, they dig up the neighbourhood parks that we work hard to maintain.
 
 
