KOCHI: Apart from usual hitches such as students rushing out of the centre with earrings and additional materials that were not allowed inside the exam hall, the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) proceeded smoothly in Kochi. Nearly 1 lakh candidates, including many from  , appeared for the exam, said officials..

 
 Meanwhile, the death of a candidate’s father cast a shadow on Sunday’s proceedings. The student came to know about it only after he finished writing the exam and later in the evening arrangements were made to transport the man’s body to Thiruvarur in Tamil Nadu.
 
 
 
 
  T Babu, who attended the NEET exam for the second time at St Peter’s School in Kolencherry, said the paper was difficult compared to the one he wrote last year. “Most of the questions, especially in biology, were tricky. The questions in physics paper were hard to crack,” she said.
 
 Many students who attended the exam felt that the physics paper was relatively tougher. “The checking process was as strict as it was last year,” Alexis added. Students had the sleeves of their top cutoff at the exam centre. Those wearing spectacles were made to stand in a separate line where officials checked their spectacles closely.
 
 Most students arrived at the examination hall early and nearby roads were blocked as parents waited outside the gate, hoping that their wards would get into the exam hall without hassles.
 
 This year, several students forgot to ensure their parent’s signature on the hall ticket and many rushed out for the same. “Thank god, I decided to stick around. When I was waiting outside many students came out to get their hall tickets signed and I realized that I had not signed my son’s hall ticket. When he came rushing out, he found me easily,” said M Kamaraj, who had accompanied his son from Madurai.
 
 At several centres, the exam began late due to the extensive checks being conducted by officials.  , who had come from   for the entrance exam, said: “They were checking even the hair of all candidates. The whole process took a lot of time and exam started by 10.20 am.”
 
 After the exam, bus and railway stations were packed with passengers who were heading home. P Thayageesan, Lydia's father, said: “The biggest problem was the location of the centre. It was 30km away from the city and the taxi driver charged me Rs 1,000.”
 
 Several students admitted that the help desks set up by the government were quite useful. Sargurunathan D, a student from Thanjavur, said that the help desk at   station helped him in locating the test centre.
 
 
