The   has touched the magic ridership mark of 40 crore passengers since it was opened to commuters in June 2014. With over four lakh commuters a day for a route length of just 12km, it has also emerged as the only public transport system in the city to witness a rapid increase in passengers annually—of up to 15% per year. Experts say the trend shows that the Metro system will become the city’s preeminent means of public transport once construction of all the routes are finished a few years from now.

 Speaking on the Metro’s success, a spokesperson of   (MMOPL; the company running the service) said, “It took 398 days to touch the 10 crore ridership mark, but for the subsequent milestones, the number of days kept coming down. The 40 crore ridership mark was reached in 300 days, compared to 388 days for the 20 crore mark and 337 days for the 30 crore figure.”
  
  
 Transport experts say the Metro’s ridership is increasing as most people are shifting from Mumbai’s traditional commuting modes like BEST buses and autorickshaws between Andheri and Ghatkopar, the route for the Metro. The overhead rail system has witnessed sharp increases in commuters on two sub-routes.
 
 On the Andheri-Western Express Highway route, commuters have increased by 48% and on the Andheri-Azad Nagar route by 45% in just one year.
 
 The increase in Metro’s ridership has had a direct impact on BEST patronage. “When it comes to a BEST bus, we are not assured of reaching our destination on time as there is no right of way for buses, unlike a local train or the Metro,” said A V Shenoy of the Mumbai Vikas Samiti. “People are frustrated with traffic jams and delays. “On the Metro, you know going from Andheri to Ghatkopar will take just 20 minutes. The same journey by bus could take an hour.”
 
 BEST’s ridership has fallen by 13lakh in eight years, with the biggest plunge coming in the last four years—a direct correlation with the Metro’s launch. BEST’s fleet size too has reduced from 4,200 to 3,300 buses. The primary reason is congestion on the roads because of the increasing presence of private vehicles and ride-hailing cabs. This has led to prolonged bus travel time, poor frequency and bunching up of buses. Also, to cut losses, BEST has had to increase fares by 167% between 2010 and 2017, experts said.
 
 (With inputs by Somit Sen)
 
 
