It's been 20 years to  's back to back hundreds which propelled India to the Coca Cola Trophy in 1998. On April 22 that year, Tendulkar slammed 143 off 130 balls to guide India to the final and two days later on April 24, exactly 20 years ago, he hit 134 to help India beat Australia, then the most feared side in the world. Tendulkar reflected on those memorable knocks in conversation with Mirror.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I remember of a funny incident. When the sandstorm was approaching us, I was standing in the middle, next to Gilly ( ). Most of the guys were flat on the ground. I remember the Hollywood films in which they get blown away in the storms. So I thought if were to hold on to Gilly, at least I would be alongside a 80kg person, so it won't be that easy.
 
 
 
 
 Ya, ya. I had never experienced anything like that. It was an unbelievable feeling. You only see these things in the movies. It was a massive sight for both of us.
 
 
 
 
 I was feeling confident because we had played Australia in India. We also played a tri-series in India involving New Zealand and Australia. I had also scored 80-plus runs against Australia in the first match of the tri-series in Sharjah. I was batting really well. So, I had felt the flow was really really good. Whatever I was connecting, it was coming off the middle of the bat. Even if it was not off the middle of the bat, the bat swing was such that it would clear the boundary.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Birthday or not, you want to go out and win always. It does not matter if it was the first game or the final or a special day like birthday. For me it has always been representation of the nation. And once you go out in the middle, you would want to win - be it a club-level, state-level or an international game. Winning is something I never wanted to compromise on. That spirit was always in me right from the childhood. It was not just in cricket, I always wanted to compete and win in any sport I played.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. Let's be honest in appreciating what they have done. During that period, the Australians were virtually unbeatable. They had some great players but my preparation was very good. Before they came to India, I had prepared myself on the turning tracks. There was a possibility of   attacking me, so I worked with L Sivaramakrishnan in Chennai. In Mumbai, I tried to face the bowling of Nilesh Kulkarni, Rajesh Pawar and Sairaj Bahutule. It was proper practice in which my brother Ajit also helped me. All this came handy.
 
 
 
 
 Heat was quite a bit. There were occasions when you feel the heat even in your shoes and socks. So, the sole of your shoes would become tender and soft. Literally, one felt that there were blisters all over your feet. There were occasions, when I had gone back to the dressing room in the intervals and would put my feet in a bucket of ice. Running in such heat and then changing directions would increase the friction and that would generate more heat. It was challenging. But in the end, it was something at which you look back and feel that every little thing was worth it.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 I used to work on my fitness from my school days. I would bat and then run on the field with my pads and gloves on. It was at the direction of my coach Achrekar sir. So I had become mentally tough that day. After my batting, I would not stand and watch others bat. I would go and bowl non-stop at the nets, which helped my cardio sessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I would think so, but I don't do comparisons. Correct me if I am wrong, I don't remember us chasing high totals before that. These was no Twenty20 then and the approach to ODI cricket also was different those days. That's why I felt it was one of the important knocks of my career as well.
 
 
 
 
 I would not like any comparisons. It would be unfair on the other player as well. If you start comparing, subconsciously you take the importance away from the occasion and other's innings. I always believed in judging an individual by what he has done.
 
 
 
 
 We wanted to win the first game without doubt. The target also became stiffer after the number of overs and runs deducted. Actually, there were more overs deducted than runs. Coincidentally, I got bad decisions in both those innings. In my mind, I was preparing to win the game for the team in the qualifier because the opposition then would think differently in the final. We got rather close to it but certain things were beyond my control. I ended up getting a bad decision, which was disappointing.
 
 
 
 
 Nobody mentioned anything to me. Because he had to play another game a day later. When we meet them outside, they were always appreciative of my effort.
 
 
 
 
 We always spoke after games. But on the field, we were always competitive. I believed in competing hard but fair. We were friends no doubt but that was off the field. Our friendship did not come in the way we competed on the field. We both wanted to win matches for our countries.
 
 
 
 
 In the final, I can say that I went out to bat without much recovery time. I got back to the hotel after midnight because we were staying in Dubai at that time. We would drive all the way to Dubai from Sharjah. By the time I went to sleep, it was past 2 am. Next day, there were lunch and official dinner. By the time we realised anything, we were back on the field. It took me time to settle down. Because when I went out to bat, I felt drained mentally. My movements were not as sharp as they should have been. In the first few overs, I could not middle the ball. But I knew if I give myself enough time, things will fall in place. I waited and slowly, things started falling in place. Then my natural instincts took over.
 
 
 
 
 He did, actually. What can I say? I take that as a compliment.
 
 
 
 
 
 Australia 272/9 (Steve Waugh 70,   70,   45, Adam Gilchrist 45; Venkatesh Prasad 2-32, Rahul Sanghvi 2-45,   2-61) lost to India 275/4 in 48.3 overs (Sachin Tendulkar 134, Mohammad Azharuddin 58;   2-47, Michael Kasprowicz2-48) by 6 wickets
 
 
 Australia 284/7 (Michael Bevan 101,   81,   31; Venkatesh Prasad 2-41) beat India 250/5 in 46 overs (Sachin Tendulkar 143, Nayan Mongia 35, Tom Moody 2-40, Damien Fleming 2-46) by 26 runs on revised target; India qualified for the final
 
 
