MYSURU: Although the 2018   are still a few months away, the Chamundeshwari segment – the constituency that chief minister   has announced he will be contesting from this year – has already turned into a veritable battleground. Incumbent   for the constituency   of the JD(S) was none too pleased with officials of the district administration who failed to inform him about the launch of developmental projects in the segment.

 Devegowda reminded the officials that foundation stone for developmental projects in a segment ought to be laid in the presence of that constituency’s elected representatives. The MLA, who was at a Karnataka Development Programme meeting at the zilla panchayat office, said that this amounted to a breach of protocol.
 
 Lashing out at both the  , and the ZP engineer for the oversight,   said, “Instead of behaving like the spokesperson of the ruling party, one must follow rules and regulations.”
 
 Devegowda further asked how the zilla panchayat had consented to launch of these projects without bringing it to the notice of elected representatives of the constituency. “Elected representatives were not brought into the loop before the launch of these projects,” said the MLA.
 
 “Who has given them the right to do so?” he asked.
 
 Devegowda’s tirade against the Congress and the ZP officials comes in the wake of Siddaramaiah’s son Dr   and Congress leader Mari Gowda laying the foundation stone for a slew of developmental projects in  . Chairman of the ZP social justice subcommittee Beerihundi Basavanna and member Madegowda too upbraided the ZP engineer for allowing the breach in protocol.
 
 “How was the groundbreaking ceremony performed in our constituency without consulting us, and our permission?” asked the two ZP members.
 
 Asking   to respect rules and protocol, Devegowda added, “If he is the son of the CM, let him go and perform puja and launch developmental projects in his father’s constituency.”
 
 Devegowda further asked that the contracts for the projects launched by Yathindra and Mari Gowda be scrapped. “We demand that the engineer scrap these contracts immediately,” he said.
 
 
