 MUMBAI: Open plots in sectors 34 and 35 in   are being used to dump construction debris and civic garbage, alleged residents. 

 Foul odour emanating from the dumped garbage and mushrooming of illegal slums have added to citizens' woes in the node.
 
 Several truckloads of debris have been dumped on the roadside opposite Ramseth Thakur Public School whereas heaps of domestic waste found a safe haven opposite  .
 
 The road opposite Sanjeevani International School has turned into a garbage yard leaving little space for morning and evening joggers. Debris is also being dumped in front of Ramseth Thakur Public School. Residents allege that both PCMC and   have failed to prevent the rampant debris dumping on roads, footpaths, open plots despite complaints lodged by residents over a period of time. 
 
 A resident SS   said, "During the Swachh Survekshan the civic body had cleaned the roads and footpaths and dumped the trash on an open plot near Celebration Society which has not been removed since then."
 
 The garbage pile along the 200m stretch has been blocking the movement of pedestrians and vehicles as well apart from raising a stink, said locals. 
 
  Truck loads of construction debris and garbage are being dumped along the roadsides and open spaces in this node, said residents. Cidco (Kharghar) administrator Sitaram Rokade said, "Our c officials have been instructed to take stock of the situation."
 
 Children who used to play on the sprawling plot in sector 35 (E) had to beat a haasty retreat and look for other play areas. 
 
 "Rampant dumping has kept us away from sports activities. Another plot near   junction in this sector has been encroached upon. Authorities should take note," said a resident  .
 
  "The debris leads to health hazards too. Besides dust pollution, the stench emanating from the domestic waste are affected us. Cidco should put up fence to prevent encroachment on open plots," said another resident Mangal Kamble.
 
  Shriram Hazare, PCMC Kharghar superintendent said "Local residents as well as dumpers are unloading debris under the cover of darkness and taking advantage of the absence of round-the-clock surveillance."
 
 
