NEW DELHI:   may not get rent relief for its bungalows except for the party headquarters at 24, Akbar Road. The party occupies three bungalows and a flat in the Lutyens’ Delhi, which is the maximum by any political party.

 
 Sources said though Congress has sought allowing it to pay concessional rent or “normal rate of licence fee” for all the government accommodations till its new office gets ready, the request may be allowed only for the   ( ) headquarters. They added when the issue was referred to be placed for consideration of the Cabinet Committee on Accommodation (CCA), the cabinet secretariat had raised questions of how the party can be allowed to pay nominal rent and keep occupying accommodations beyond permitted period. This would result in revenue loss to the government, it had flagged. 
 
 The urban development ministry has taken up the issue with the law ministry before taking a final view. Subsequently, the matter will be referred to the CCA, which is the highest decision making body on allotment, extension and rent relief for government accommodations in the national capital.
 
 It will be up to the CCA to approve charging the nominal rate from June 2013 or charge “damage rate of licence fee” with effect from that date. Damage rate is the market rent for any government property based on their location and its much higher than the concessional rate that political parties pay.
 
 Sources said the case for special rate for 24, Akbar Road can be considered since the government is aware that the principal opposition party has undertaken the construction of its new building and work is progressing well. Congress party was given land in June 2010 for building an office in the capital. The party was required to complete the construction of its new office within three years of the land allotment. Subsequently, it was supposed to vacate the bungalow as per the Supreme Court order to shift out all political party offices from the bungalow zone.
 
 The party also occupies bungalows on 5, Raisina Road; 26, Akbar Road; and a flat C-II/109, Chanakyapuri. The   bungalow is used by the Indian Youth Congress while 26, Akbar Road and the Chanakyapuri quarter are used for party work. Quoting an RTI reply, PTI had reported that the directorate of estates had cancelled the allotment for these accommodations with effect from June 26, 2013.
 
 
