MUMBAI: State chief minister   will relaunch the much-awaited   to Matheran   service on its full 21km stretch on Republic Day.

 He will also gift passengers a host of amenities along Central and Western Railway, which includes FOBs, wi-fi facilities, escalators, solar power plants, emergency medical rooms, booking offices, LED lighting at stations and 26 additional train services for CR commuters. He will also inaugurate the additional landing of the FOB at Elphinstone Road station, next to the landing of the bridge where 23 persons died in stampede on September 29.
 
 The toy train will commence at 10.30am from Neral station and reach   at 1.35pm, before culminating at   station at 2pm.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The shuttle services will continue between Aman Lodge and Matheran on Friday, except for those leaving Aman Lodge at 4.15pm and 5.25pm and a shuttle leaving Matheran at 4.50pm, which will be cancelled. From Saturday, there will be five pairs of shuttle services between Aman Lodge and Matheran with a new time-table.
 
 During the regular run from Saturday, a pair of service will run daily between Neral and Matheran on the full stretch. The train will depart Neral at 6.40am and reach Matheran at 9.40am, while the return journey from Matheran will be at 3.30pm and reach Neral at 6.30pm. First class fares will be Rs300 and second Rs75, with Rs45 for children.
 
 The toy train services were suspended after twin derailments in May 2016, which hit tourists, local residents and hotel operators who use them to ferry provisions in the absence of motorable transport. Officials have put in place a foolproof system for safety of passengers, including crash barriers, gabion walls and boundary walls, said CR chief spokesperson Sunil Udasi.
 
 The CM will on Friday inaugurate FOBs at LTT, Thane, Neral, Tilak Nagar and Santacruz, extension of FOBs at Lower Parel and Borivli and additional landings for FOB at Vidyavihar and Elphinstone Road stations, escalators at Thane and Dadar, lifts at Dadar, Mankhurd, Reay Road and Borivli, solar power plants at Grant Road, Virar car-shed, Lower Parel and Mahim, e-emergency medical room at Govandi and Titwala and booking office at King’s Circle.
 
