HUBBALLI: City's   (Kims) hospital has geared up to deal with   cases in twin cities. 

  Kims has already created a separate five-bed ward to treat  . Though no such case has been reported from north   region yet, Kims hospital is not ready to take any chance and is prepared to treat people. 
 
  Following reports of more than 13 deaths due to  , people are panic-stricken across the state. Kims is the only hospital which serves the people of north Karnataka for all kind of health issues. 
 
  Dr Dattatreya Bant, director, Kims, told TOI that all doctors and nurses have been trained on how to handle patients in case of an alarming situation and on how to treat suspected Nipah patients. 
 
 "We have already created a five-bed isolation ward for those who will be admitted as suspected Nipah cases. We have kept enough ventilators ready, necessary antibiotic pills and other medicines which are essential to control the fever among the suspected patients. We have also made arrangement to take blood samples from suspected people and send it for lab test in Pune," he said.
 
  Apart from making internal arrangements to avoid any delay in providing timely treatment to the suspected patients, a comprehensive health awareness programme has also been chalked out involving more than 400 nursing students, he added. 
 
  "We have formed teams, each consisting of 2-3 nurses and other volunteers, to create awareness extensively in slum areas of twin cities. Before visiting each house, our nursing students will enact street plays throwing light on the symptoms of Nipah, measures to be followed to take immediate treatment and other issues related to Nipah. We have also printed brochures and pamphlets containing details of reasons for spreading Nipah virus and how to get timely help. We will start enacting street plays at all strategic points in the city to educate people on the outbreak and also visit slum areas from Monday," Dr Bant said. He also appealed to people not to panic if they have fever or other symptoms and visit the hospital for timely treatment. 
 
 
