OUT! Andile Phehlukwayo finally gets his man as Virat Kohli walks back after being caught on 112 off 119. End of a terrific knock from the India captain. Score 262/4

 
 OUT! Ajinkya Rahane was looking to finish the chase early as he lifts one from Andile Phehlukwayo over long-on aiming to clear the boundary but finds Imran Tahir to be caught on 79 off 86. Score 256/3
 
 
 
 
 
 The partnership for the third wicket between Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane is now worth 150 runs. Score 217/2, chasing 270
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With each over, India seem to be the tightening their grip over the proceedings. The match is fast slipping from South Africa, they need a couple of wickets here to get back in the contest. Score 184/2, chasing 270
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 He took 56 deliveries to reach the milestone. India 137/2, chasing 270
 
 
 
  India are steady in their chase now with Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane finding regular boundaries. The duo has built a solid stand which has crossed 50 runs. Score 133/2
 
 
 100 UP FOR INDIA IN 18.6 OVERS. Virat Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane are slowly getting into their grooves. With a four, Rahane has moved to 12 off 8 while Kohli struck two fours in an over of Chris Morris to reach 29 off 37. Score 101/2, chasing 270
 
 
 Chris Morris seems to have hurt his right thumb while unsuccessfully collecting a throw from the deep. He grimaces a bit but then goes back to his bowling mark to finish the over. Score 75/2
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan must be gutted that he has been run out after making a bright start. He was rapped on the pad and then was immediately called off for a single by his captain. Aiden Markram picked up the ball near the striker's end and made a direct hit with Dhawan well short of the crease. He did glare at his captain for the call. Dhawan scored 35 off 29. Score 67/2
 
 
 
 
 
 Kagiso Rabada is lightning quick today. He is continuously asking questions of India batsmen. Meanwhile, Virat Kohli has played a lovely drive for his first four of Morne Morkel. Score 49/1
 
 
 OUT! Rohit Sharma was looking to smack it over the ropes but miscues the shot and ends up being caught by the 'keeper on 20. Morne Morkel strikes for South Africa. India 33/1 
 
 
 A decent start to the chase by Indian openers Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan. Rohit has already hit Morne Morkel for a six and with the help of a four, has moved to 13 off 22. His partner Shikhar Dhawan has struck two fours of his own and is batting on 12 off 9. Score 26/0
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma are the India openers; Morne Morkel has the new ball.
 
 
 
 
 
 The South African captain holes out on 120 to Hardik Pandya off Bhuvneshwar Kumar. He gets a standing ovation for his excellent knock. South Africa 264/7
 
 
 Top innings from the South African captain as he reached his 9th ODI century with a single off Jasprit Bumrah. South Africa 234/6
 
 
 
 
 
 Kuldeep Yadav gets his revenge after being clobbered for the first six of the match by Chris Morris. He sneaks one past Morris to have him clean bowled on 37. This is his 3rd wicket. Score 208/6
 
 
 The spinners have been brought back but South Africa continue to climb up. The partnership between Faf du Plessis and Chris Morris is now well over 50 runs for the sixth wicket. Du Plessis took the score to 200 with a four to deep midwicket. Score 200/5 
 
 
 Things are finally moving upwards for the hosts after the middle over setbacks. Bhuuvneshwar Kumar was brought back but conceded two fours in it - one each to Faf du Plessis and Chris Morris. Score 166/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OUT! Excellent catch from Indian skipper Virat Kohli who dives forward to take a low catch at short covers and gets rid of the dangerman David Miller on 7. South Africa have lost half their side for 134 now. Kuldeep Yadav has two wickets.
 
 
 
 
 
 OUT! JP Duminy's return isn't a sweet one as Kuldeep Yadav bamboozles him with the one that comes with the ball crashing on the stumps. He scored 9. South Africa 122/4 
 
 
 Halfway through their innings, South Africa have reached 120/3 with captain Faf du Plessis the set batsman on 46*
 
 
 OUT! Yuzvendra Chahal gets his second wicket in Aiden Markram who has been caught on 9 by Hardik Pandya. South Africa have crossed the 100-run mark but have lost three wickets now.
 
 
 Spinners are in operation from both the ends now. The scoring rate has gone down a bit now. Chahal has bowled five overs for 16 runs while chinaman Kuldeep has three overs for 10 runs. Score 99/2 
 
 
 OUT! Yuzvendra Chahal strikes! He traps Quinton de Kock, who was looking good, with the one that spun. He scored 34 off 49. Score 83/2
 
 
 
 
 
 Faf du Plessis gets going with three fours in a row off Bhuvneshwar Kumar. The first via drive through mid-off, second a pull to square leg and the third - deliberately opening the face to steer it past the slip cordon. Score 43/1
 
 
 
 OUT! And Jasprit Bumrah strikes with the wicket of opener Hashim Amla. He has been given lbw on 16. The umpires are checking for a no-ball. That looks close but Amla will have to walk back after umpire are satisfied. Score 30/1
 
 
 Virat Kohli has gone off the field. He seem to have hurt his knee while saving a boundary. Currently he is sitting in the Indian dugout and is being attended by the team physio. Shreyas Iyer is the substitute fielder.
 
 
 While Bhuvneshwar Kumar is keeping it tight, Jasprit Bumrah has leaked two fours in his first two overs. The second four came in the fourth over as Quinton de Kock spotted a slower one which was well outside off and crashed it through covers for his second boundary. Score 18/0
 
 
 Three runs from the first over bowled by Bhuvneshwar Kumar. In the second, bowled by Jasprit Bumrah, Quinton de Kock struck a four straight past the bowler for the first boundary of the innings. Score 7/0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Virat Kohli (capt), Ajinkya Rahane, MS Dhoni (wk), Kedar Jadhav, Hardik Pandya, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Kuldeep Yadav, Jasprit Bumrah, Yuzvendra Chahal
 
 
 Hashim Amla, Quinton de Kock (wk), Faf du Plessis (capt), Aiden Markram, Jean-Paul Duminy, David Miller, Chris Morris, Andile Phehlukwayo, Kagiso Rabada, Morne Morkel, Imran Tahir
 
 
 South Africa have won the toss and opted to bat first in Durban
 
 
 
 
 
