MUMBAI: Vakola police on Wednesday arrested a 23-year-old assistant accountant of a private company for siphoning off Rs4.71 crore from the company’s account and fled away from Mumbai. Accused   was tracked from Kashmiri Gate metro station in Delhi after he fled away from Mumbai since December 2017. Gupta worked in Executive India Pvt Limited (that is into the real estate business) and has got its office at Kalpataru Synergy in Santacruz (East). 

 
 TOI on Friday published: "Accountant duped builder of Rs 4.71 cr by diverting buyers’ payments, held" has got factual errors.
 
 Gupta is not an employee of Kalpataru Builders. But he was employed with the company that deals in buying, selling and giving property on lease.
 
 A Kalpataru Group spokesperson said: “We state at the cost of repetition that neither any such fraud has taken place in our company, or any of our group companies, nor have we filed any police complaint. This accused individual as mentioned in the news is/was neither our employee nor do we have any connection or concern with him in any manner whatsoever. Our systems are strong and robust, with strong internal controls in place.”
 
 The actual case has been registered by a private company against Gupta in January 2018 after they found discrepancies in its account during the company’s audit. In the complaint, the company officials said, “Gupta was employed with them for the last six months in between July 19 and December (in 2017). He has used passwords of his bosses to transfer funds through   to a bogus account. The fraud came to light when we carried out a audit and found the fraud. Meanwhile Gupta has left the company in January.”
 
 The complaint was registered on January 22. During the probe police first tracked a couple to whose account some portion of the money was transferred. With the help of technical probe, police managed to track Gupta’s friends who led them to track Gupta to Kashmiri Gate metro station in Delhi and brought him back to city on Wednesday.
 
 Gupta is in police custody till June 8.
 
 
