NAGPUR: The electioneering for the byelection in   constituency came to an end on Saturday evening. The final leg of the campaign was marred by allegations of breach of code of conduct levelled by state NCP president   against the BJP.

 Patil, who was in the constituency, filed complaints with the returning officer in which he alleged that the BJP agents were distributing cash to lure voters. He also accused the Devendra Fadnavis government of violating election norms by using the state machinery to distribute relief money to farmers for crop lost in last kharif season.
 
 As the public campaign came to an end, it was apparent that it was a direct fight between NCP candidate Madhukar Kukde and BJP contender Hemant Patle. Both the parties campaigned fiercely reaching out to the interiors in the vast rural constituency spread across 12 talukas.
 
 Now all eyes are on the voters’ turnout on Monday, the polling day. Currently, the summer is at its peak, and Monday is the fourth day of the ‘nau tapa’ (nine days of extreme heat) of the season. Will people brave the heat to go for voting or remain indoors enjoying a rest on a holiday is the question that is driving the parties crazy. Around 1.5 lakh people are working on MGREGS to eke out a living as the last kharif failed in this paddy belt because of irregular rain. Will these tired lot show any enthusiasm for voting is something not clear.
 
 But BJP supporters feel a low, below 40%, turnout at polling would help as only committed voters of the party which has a good network across the two districts could be expected to vote. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as well as Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari have made two rounds in the constituency to address the voters. 
 
 NCP stalwart Praful Patel and his senior colleagues Ajit Pawar, Dhananjay Munde and Patil also put in their best efforts but could not match the intensity of the BJP campaign. The BJP specially deputed Chandrashekhar Bawankule, who was made district guardian minister few months ago because he is dynamic and works tirelessly. More importantly he is from the Teli community which has sizeable votes.
 
 The NCP is pinning hopes on the belief that people at large are angry with the Narendra Modi government and hence will not vote for the BJP. The   support to the NCP was limited to Nana Patole who single-handedly campaigned hard for Kukde. The fact that neither Congress state president   or nor any other senior party leader of national stature came for campaigning has been noticed by all but the NCP has chosen to be silent on it.
 
 While the campaign looked evenly poised, the caste factor may finally tilt the scales depending on which way the Dalits, minorities vote. If they vote en bloc for the NCP, then the BJP may find it tough to reach the winning post.
 
 
