You can tell a Hyderabadi with the way he or she says “Seven Tombs” when referring to the Qutb Shahi Tombs. So it came as no surprise to us when   picked the “Seven Tombs” as his “Heart Spot”. Located about eight kilometers from his AC Guards residence, the world renowned heritage site houses 70-odd monuments spread across 108 acres. Comprising grand mausoleums, six step-wells, a hamam bath, pavilions and garden structures, this complex is the resting place of the rulers of the Qutb Shahi dynasty, who ruled Hyderabad for over 170 years between 1580 AD to 1611 AD. 

 It was close to 3 pm when we reached the Qutb Shahi Heritage Park and the magnificent tombs shone bright, revelling in the sun that was still sharp. As we crossed the entrance gate and drove towards the main entrance, a few visitors, some of whom recognised Baseer, began to follow us, curious to find out what was happening. After politely acknowledging his excited fans, Baseer went on to describe why he loves the place so much. 
 
 “To me, the Qutb Shahi Tombs is the most iconic place in Hyderabad after  . I mean, some of these Tombs have been around since the sixteenth century! In the claustrophobic confines of the concrete jungle that the rest of Hyderabad has become today, this place will give you fresh air to breathe. It is a definite visit if you want to feel some nature, some history and some good vibes,” he says.
 
 After walking a little, we were greeted by the tomb of Abdullah Qutb Shah, which is at the east gate of the compound. Marvelling at the imposing edifice of the architectural splendour, Baseer exclaimed, “I think this tomb is the most magnificent one of all.” From its arcaded veranda we can get a glimpse of other tombs that lie hidden from sight, behind the imposing walls at the entrance. Baseer could not stop himself from raving about the exquisite floral designs and calligraphy on the tombs. “And here, look here...” he said pointing animatedly towards the roof of one of the tombs, “The artwork adorning the roof, the interior walls and arches is a fine example of excellent craftsmanship. So much of effort has been put on every wall! It is an epitome of the architectural heritage of Telangana.”
 
 A beautiful blend of the Persian, Pathan and Indian architectural styles — Persian arches, Turkish columns and Indian 
 motifs — these structures are true gems indeed. No wonder this place is being pitched for the status of a World Heritage Site. Our next pitstop was the mosque popularly called the Great Mosque of the Golconda tombs. Located beside the mausoleum of Hayat Bakshi Begum, it was built as a replica of Charminar. Unlike Charminar it has only two minarets, but that doesn’t make it any less grand. Inspecting the stucco decoration on the mosque which was built in 1666 AD Baseer recalled a childhood memory of his first visit to the place. 
 
 “I was a kid when I visited this place for the first time. It was a school trip. I remember offering a namaz here. When I visited this place, it was around 1 pm — time for Zohar prayer. All Muslim boys went to our teacher and said, madame hume namaz padna hai. They waited 5 minutes for us while we offered namaz.”
 
 However, back then the Tombs were in a bad shape recalls Baseer. Thanks to the restoration work in progress since 2013 a lot of Tombs look all spruced up. “When we were kids they wore a rundown look. It is so good to see these monuments being restored to their original glory. Once the restoration work is complete, the Qutb Shahi Tombs will become a top tourist attraction in the world.”
 
 Websites: 
 www.telanganatourism.gov.in
 www.telanganamuseums.in 
 
