PARACAS: When you turn 40, you suddenly realise that growing up has been taken over by growing old. And you do strange things in order to turn the clock back. You always promise yourself to chuck up the job and start something new, or simply, do nothing, but the most you do is obtain your first pair of reading glasses.

 But if you're  , you celebrate turning 40 not only by celebrating a sack, but also by deciding to participate in the world's most gruelling motor rally, the Dakar. As if managing   clubs wasn't gruesome enough, Villas-Boas who turned 40 on Oct 17, felt the best way was to sit behind the wheel of a supremely-built Toyota and throwing yourself to the elements.
 
 "Oh yes, it's been fun so far," said a beaming Villas-Boas after a testing opening stage of the Dakar 2018 here at the foothills of the steep sand dunes of Peru's Paracas desert. Villas-Boas, the former   and Spurs manager in the English Premiership, was 'let go' by his club Shanghai SIPG mere days before he revved up his engines along with partner Rueben Faria in the rally, which co-incidentally is also witnessing it's 40th edition.
 
 Out here in the Paracas bivouac, Villas-Boas is just a face in the   crowd having completed the initial 31 kms. Amid the acrid fumes and growling engine noises of a few hundred teams and their million machines, the Portuguese could simply pass off as another motoring enthusiast, his happy grinning face a sharp contrast to the worried expression he wore on the Stamford Bridge touchline during his troubled stay there. The feeling was reinforced when his informal minder told us, "No questions on football, okay?"
 
 "There's not much difference," he told TOI, on how throwing oneself in the middle of the world's most demanding rally was similar to the uncertainties of top-flight professional football. "Here, the machine is under your control and there are its own challenges. You learn to control the machine, how much to push it and when to let go," he said, alluding to a managing a football team through a season. "The machine listens to you, though," he could have said, but kept insisting, almost gushingly, "The car has been responding brilliantly. I couldn't have asked for a better car."
 
 Like at the start of a football season, getting the first game out of the way is usually always the most difficult, Villas-Boas agreed that the first stage of the Dakar was the most important in that it put to bed any nerves he may be having, and that it was a long way to go. "Just 31km complete today. Another maybe 200 to go tomorrow, and a total of 4,000 km," he shrugged, and added, "But yes, the first stage was important for me to calm my nerves. I was very excited and sometimes, too much excitement is not good in a rally like this."
 
 Villas-Boas said that he had felt a need to carry out a family tradition by participating in the Dakar. "My uncle did it twice, in 1982 and '84, so I felt it was time for me too give it a shot too," he laughed.
 
 He added that the dunes were quite a challenge but said that he had decided it was time when he tested the car in similar conditions during training in Morocco and Barcelona. "Yes, but it's a brilliant car," he repeated, to no one in particular. If you shut out the wailing engine when being tuned by the technical staff, you'd believe it was a talented, rookie striker that he'd stumbled upon that he was talking about. Only here, it was a new 40-year-old talking about his latest toy, a car.
 
 
