NEW DELHI: After failing to ensure a patch-up with the bureaucrats following the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash, the   government seems to be banking on the   to end the stalemate. 

 Other than attending crucial meetings, such as those on budget preparations, the protesting bureaucrats are engaging with the ministers only through “open channels” of communications. They are also observing a five-minute silence every day. On the other hand, social welfare minister   and transport minister Kailash Gahlot, who were fielded by chief minister   to reach out to the bureaucrats, seem to have restrained their efforts for now. 
 
 However, citing the presence of several senior bureaucrats at different meetings this week, Gautam claimed, “Things are normalising now.” 
 
 But the bureaucrats have made it clear that the political executive should not mistake the attendance at statutory budget meetings as a precursor to normalcy. A senior bureaucrat from Joint Forum, a platform of all Delhi government employees, including IAS officers, said, “The bureaucrats are attending only statutory meetings over the budget and keeping away from all routine meetings. The work is not suffering because we continue to communicate through open channels of communications.” 
 
 Senior IAS officer   said the officers would continue to boycott all meetings with the political executive except for the statutory meetings unless the CM apologises. “No officer of Joint Forum has deviated from this stand,” he said. 
 
 “Why is the CM not ready to apologise? There are several ways through which he can apologise though the matter of the alleged assault is in court,” said a source in the bureaucracy.
 
 Government sources maintain that it was the AAP government which first took a step to reach out to the bureaucrats. “The CM himself has also tried to reach out to the chief secretary to convince him to end the tussle. What more a government should do,” said a source.
 
 Functionaries of several government employee unions are also trying to avoid the political executive since the suspension of the president of Delhi Government Employees’ Welfare Association, Dayanand Singh, from his post after he led a group of employees belonging to Delhi Administration Subordinate Service and some unions to a meeting with the chief minister a week ago.
 
 With both parties refusing to step back, the stalemate may continue even after the budget session — a situation that may affect the work of the government and put it in a disadvantageous position with 20 assembly seats staring at the possibility of a bypoll following the office-of-profit case. 
 
 
