KOLKATA: Police on Thursday appealed to the witnesses of Metro moral policing — where acouple was reportedly bashed up for hugging inside the compartment on Monday evening — to come forward and record their statements. However, the force that was first in the country to respond to the #Me-Too campaign stopped short of registering an FIR even on Thursday.

 
 “Let them (the witnesses) come forward and we will ascertain that there was a cause and effect that led to manhandling,” said a senior IPS officer.
 
 The development came hours after the police said its preliminary inquiry into the incident had begun and that they had completed analysing   footage provided by the Metro authorities. Lalbazar is also mulling sending a notice under CrPC 91to media houses, asking them to share footage that establishes the crime.
 
 The twin actions, insisted Lalbazar, were necessary given the evidence the cops have collected so far was “took hazy to establish the crime and they needed some leads to establish the commission of the crime”.
 
 “In one of the clips shared by  , we do see a crowd at the southern end of the platform but we are unable to ascertain if a couple is being manhandled. In the second clipping available with us, we see a young man and woman walking out. There are no tell-tale signs that show that they were roughed up.
 
 “There is not one statement with us that states the two were roughed up. All we have is the confirmation of a commotion that has been vindicated from statements of both the   and   personnel. Also, importantly, we need to check how it all started to establish the criminality of those involved,” claimed a police source.
 
 Prominent jurists in the city differed in their opinion stating that photographs of the incident show “beyond doubt that something had taken place inside the Metro station that night and that the victim involved a woman who was attacked for trying to defend a man from others”. “This is a cause enough to lodge a suo motu FIR by the police,” said senior criminal lawyer Milon Mukherjee.
 
 Lawyers pointed to the SC ruling in the Lalita Kumari Vs UP government case where the court observed that any intimation to cops — that there was a cognizable offence that was committed — should be enough to lodge an FIR. The photographs, in this case, will be enough to draw up the case under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 354 (molestation), they argued.
 
 
  
 
