GHAZIABAD: When it comes to driving on the wrong side,   appears to be a tad ahead of Noida and Gurugram. There is hardly any stretch in the city where a disregard for the traffic rule hasn’t assumed massive proportions.

 Traffic cops agree in private that wrong-side driving is more of a norm than an exception in Ghaziabad. With traffic patrol limited to mostly busy intersections of the city, commuters use the situation to the fullest to take the first short-cut rather than go a few metres and take a legal U-turn.
 
  
  
 
 Traffic officers say they can do little, given the shortage of workforce, but hope to bring down the menace in a few months when a number of personnel are supposed to be recruited. But the officers point out that the increased vigil won’t have the desired effect if drivers do not “change their mindset while they are out on the roads”.
 
 Wrong-side driving and other violations have taken their toll on the city’s   over the years. Till April this year, as many as 149 people have lost their lives in 298 road accidents. In 2017, 395 people had died while 701 others were injured in 930 accidents. What is most glaring is that the number of challans issued for wrong-side driving forms a negligible part of the total fines imposed. Of 2.1 lakh challans issued last year, only 1.5% (3,199) were for driving on wrong-side.
 
 Police say that two-wheeler riders are the ones who care the least for rules. Of the total 2.1 lakh challans issued last year by the traffic police, 1.2 lakh were against bikers, followed by cars (46,288), three-wheelers (26,443), trucks (9479), buses (1412) and tractors (154).
 
 There is hardly any stretch in the city where driving on the wrong side is not prevalent. One such zone is near the Nehru Nagar railway over-bridge.
 
 Vehicles coming from Navyug market and going towards Old Bus stand move on the wrong side in front of the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s office. Similarly, a large number of people can be seen taking the wrong carriageway on GT road from Islam Nagar to Kaila Bhatta.
 
 Another such stretch is the Meerut Road trisection, where commuters driving from Hindon Vihar move in the wrong direction towards New Bus stand. Those travelling from Nandgram Cut also flout the rule. The road in front of the ALT Centre is another zone where wrong-side driving is rampant.
 
 People do not spare even flyovers or railway over-bridges to cut short their distance. One such example is Raj Nagar, where people ply in the wrong direction to move towards Sanjay Nagar Block A.
 
 Vikrant Sharma, a district court lawyer and resident of Raj Nagar Extension, said: “Besides speeding, driving on the wrong side, especially by bikers, has emerged as a major traffic problem here. Offenders do not have any fear of the law. The traffic wing, which is grossly understaffed, is not able to handle the pressure. Commuters are also to be blamed for this menace.”
 
 The traffic wing cited lack of manpower. “The SSP’s office has started the procedure to induct around 100 constables, 40-45 head constables and 10-15 sub-inspectors. With this additional force, we will be able to focus more on the stretches where wrong-side driving is rampant. However, we cannot deploy cops on every interior road. Motorists should understand that by driving on the wrong side, they are not only putting their lives in danger but those of others too,” SP (traffic) SN Singh said.
 
 
