BENGALURU: As the three political parties slugged it out for poll position in the   assembly elections, several sitting MPs and MLCs also tried their luck at the hustings. And as luck would have it, most of them won.

 
 Now, Karnataka will see as many as nine by-elections and elections since candidates from the state legislative council and Members of Parliament have won assembly seats. This includes chief minister designate  , who resigned from Ramanagara and retained Channapatna. By-elections or elections will be necessitated for five winners from BJP, two from JD(S) and two from Congress party.
 
 Ironically, the biggest loser even this case will be the BJP who will now have to replace a heavy weight in K S Eshwarappa, the leader of the opposition in the upper house. Eshwarappa, won the Shivamogga City assembly elections and has resigned from the MLC post. The other members from the BJP include V Somanna and Basavaraj Patil Yatnal.
 
 While Somanna and Eshwarappa will be replaced by the party, as they were elected from the lower house, Yatnal's candidature will have to be replaced by going to polls in the panchayat elections. Yatnal was elected as an independent from the local bodies of Vijayapura and Bagalkot. Meanwhile, by-elections for Shivamogga and Ballari will also be crucial for the BJP. While Shimoga was represented by  , Ballari was represented by B  .
 
 Interestingly, both Yeddyurappa and Sreeramulu had quit their MLA seats of Shikaripura and Bellary rural segments respectively - which they had won in 2013 - to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 The JD(S) has also prompted by-elections by fielding their Mandya MP C S Puttaraju from Melukote and Kumaraswamy who won both Ramanagara and Channapatna seats.
 
 For the Congress, as is the case in the lower house, its numbers are not strong in the upper house either. The 2018 elections have also seen two - Byrathi S Suresh and Mahantesh Shivanand Koujalgi - of their own MLCs contesting the assembly polls and winning.
 
