COIMBATORE : Road widening work on   has led to blocking of man-made channels and canals from Sengulam lake to Kurichi lake, allege residents and activists of the area. The state highways department is widening the existing 20 feet road to build a flyover at Ukkadam. During the construction, a portion of the traffic will be diverted through this road, said an official. The road widening work began in 2017. Activists and members of the opposition parties had petitioned the district collector and the corporation commissioner alleging that the canals on the roadsides were being deliberately blocked for the work.

 P Sivakumar, a resident and member of the Siragugal Sevai Maiyyam, an NGO, said as per an RTI reply, a 12.50km-long canal connects the 174-acre lake to the Kurichi lake on the Palakkad Main Road. “But when we visited, we found that several spots of the canal were getting blocked. The man-made channels on both sides of the road, which ensure overflow of rainwater into the main canal, are blocked and the retaining wall is being constructed,” he said.
 
 The public works department officials said that they had conducted a survey and inspections. “The land belongs to the revenue department but we ensured that the canals are not blocked. We will inspect the area once again to verify the allegations,” said a senior engineer of PWD.
 
 Corporation engineers said water pipelines were being laid on the road and they would finish the work soon. “We wanted to complete the pipeline work faster as the highways department had taken up the road widening work. We have ensured that the pipelines are laid on the revenue land and none of the canals are blocked,” said a senior engineer.
 
 But activists in the area said a 750m-long, 3.6m-wide canal runs on the side of the lake. “This has been blocked and a check-dam has been demolished. The contractors claimed that they had left some space and if the PWD wanted to develop the check dam, they could do so later. But the canal does not have any outlet. If excess water from the Sengulam lake had to be channeled to Kurichi lake, it would be impossible,” said S Chandrashekar, another resident. 
 
 Secretary of   K   said that there were high court and Supreme Court orders against blocking canals and water bodies by undertaking construction works. 
 
 
