MEERUT: In a confidential letter marked to the DGP and divisional commissioners, UP government has sought information on "exoduses due to communal reasons in all districts of the state". It has given a week's time for the report to be furnished.
 
  The letter dated March 29 and signed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swarup (a copy of which is with TOI) has directed the DGP office and divisional commissioners to collate information and data on all exoduses up to February 28, 2017 to the home department.
  
  The issue of exodus was first raised by   MP, late Hukum Singh, in June 2016 when he submitted a list of 250 Hindu families which, he claimed, had to leave the town due to fear of members of a particular community “in majority in the area”. A National Human Rights Commission report later validated his claims.
  
  The issue became a major controversy in the run-up to assembly polls in UP with the BJP accusing the Samajwadi Party, which was in power then, of pursuing a minority appeasement policy. Later, it found prominent place in the BJP’s election manifesto, with top leaders including party chief Amit Shah and   raising it time and again.
  
  In the strongly worded letter, the government has also reprimanded senior officials for not taking the matter seriously despite the fact that similar “directions had been issued” in a previous letter dated June 20, 2017.
  
  “It must be noted that whatever information was provided in this matter did not corroborate either with media reports or with public sentiments, particularly in west UP from where reports of exodus came. This signifies that neither senior officials at the headquarters level took notice of the directions nor any investigation was conducted in this regard,” the letter says.
  
  Divisional commissioner ( ) Prabhat Kumar acknowledged the letter. He said: “We have received this letter. But that kind of information is asked routinely and we forwarded it to the DMs concerned and other departments.”
 
  Meerut SSP   added, “This is an old matter and since the information was not provided then, a fresh letter has been issued. We have already sent our report to the government. We have not witnessed any exodus in Meerut as such.”
