NAGPUR: In the third major goof up in three weeks of this exam season, the BCom final financial accounting question paper of   on Tuesday had three wrong questions carrying 20 marks each. Ironically, this paper was among the 129 rescheduled due to the 105th convocation on March 24.

 On Wednesday, pro-vice chancellor  , who is handling the exam section, and credited with its reforms, said he was unaware of the mess as he was “busy in a meeting”, though the incident took place a day earlier.
 
 The exam section had messed up   and MSW exams on March 20 and April 3. In these cases, the issues pertained to old and new course question papers, yet they generated a lot of anxiety among students. In BBA, NU was forced to even announce an optional re-exam.
 
 On Tuesday, Bachelor of   (BCom-final) students were distributed question papers with three wrong questions during the ‘Financial Accounting’ paper. At several exam centres, students created chaos, making matters worse for officials.
 
 The aggrieved BCom students said some figures in Questions numbers 2C, 3C and 5C, carrying 20 marks each, were incorrect, which made the questions invalid. In fact, the questions appear to have been copied from a commonly available guide, and cosmetic changes were made to the figures, leading to the mistakes, they said. “The balance sheet didn’t tally since the figures under one or two heads were changed,” they said.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty too didn’t answer TOI’s repeated calls and SMS till late in the evening.
 
 Several BCom students also visited the exam section on Wednesday and demanded early resolution of their grievances. NU officials told them that expert opinion would be taken before reaching any conclusion.
 
 Some students also complained they would now have to stay back in case the university announces a re-exam. “Many of us were supposed to leave for the holidays soon after March 24 but since exam was re-scheduled, we had to stay back. Now, this issue cropped up. The university may resolve the exam issue, but what about the loss of time and money,” the students said.
 
 
