AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old sadhak (devotee) at the   in Motera was found bobbitized and wounded on the premises on January 1. Chandkheda police registered a non-cognizable offence and have started investigation. The victim had multiple cuts, including some on his neck. Police have kept options open, with the incident possibly being a suicide attempt or an attack on the victim.

 According to investigators, Sudama Raut, 40, a native of  , has been associated with the sect for 15 years. He earlier lived at the ashram in Surat. At the Motera ashram, Sudama was in-charge of stores and had sundry duties. 
 
 Members of the ashram staff found him in a welding room at 10.45am on January 1. He was covered in a blanket and blood was streaming out from under it. He was taken to Civil Hospital for treatment. Doctors at Civil Hospital informed Chandkheda police about the incident.
 
 Arpita Patel, ACP, L Division, said that they are investigating all angles with help from forensic experts. “Sudama has not regained consciousness. Due to the cut on his neck, it is unlikely he will be able to speak any time soon. We are waiting for him to recover,” she said. Sources said Sudama will likely be asked to write down his account.
 
 In 2008, the decomposed bodies of two cousins, Dipesh and Abhishek Vaghela, aged 10 and 11, were found behind the Motera ashram. The cause of their death is still unclear. In 2013, a woman from Surat accused the so-called godman Asaram of raping her when she was staying at the ashram.
 
 
 
 
 Investigators said a number of factors have made the situation even more peculiar. “His cut-off organ and the weapon used have not been found. If he did this to himself, these objects would be at the crime scene. There are cameras at a number of spots in the ashram, making it difficult to pinpoint the sequence of events. There is no blood trail elsewhere. The probe is also looking at if he covered himself with the blanket or if someone else did so,” said an investigator, adding that weapon or tool used would be crucial. A forensic science team is also analyzing the direction of the cuts, to ascertain if they were self-inflicted.
 
 
