PHULPUR: Slogans like " Pahle Bhai phir Sapai" and " Bhai dete sabka saath - hum bhai ke saath" are giving nightmares to   in Muslim-majority pockets of Phulpur parliamentary seat. 

 SP had been relying on support from people of minority community in five assembly seats falling in Phulpur, including Phaphamau, Soraon, Phulpur, City West and City North but the candidature of Atiq Ahmad as an Independent has created doubts whether it will be able to get their votes this time. 
 
 Through SP leaders claim that Atiq's candidature would not dent their prospects but the rising popularity of his son Mohd Umar with large turnout at his meetings forced them to work hard on the last day of campaigning.
 
 Umar has been connecting with voters by making emotional appeals like " Aap ka hi beta hoon aur aap ka hi bachcha hoon (I am your son and child) at public rallies in Muslim pockets. He has turned out to be a crowd puller and his meeting on Friday also was heavily attended. 
 
 Umar reminded people in City West, " Mere abba aapke har sukh aur dukh mein saath khare rahe hain (My father has always stood by you in your thick and thin). Now, it is your turn to support him." Youngsters seemed crazy to catch a glimpse of 19-year old Umar and large crowds turned up at his meetings at Atala, Gaddopur, Mauaima, or Phulpur. 
 
 Umar had earlier even claimed that SP cadre was also supporting his father as they know that only his father could tackle communal forces in Phulpur. 
 
 Many SP supporters in Muslim-dominated Phaphau and adjoining belt have a soft corner for ex-MP. Gaddopur resident, Mohd Tariq, who has been voting for SP since 2004 said, "Bhai comes first and then any other party. BSP has extended support to SP but we have decided to stand with Bhai". 
 
 He claimed that Atiq supported them in times of crisis when he was elected in 2004. He claimed that even Dalits and OBCs are supporting Atiq. Phulpur seat has a sizeable Muslim vote bank (2.5 lakh) which can decide the fate of any candidate. 
 
 SP spokesman  , however, said, "BJP will not succeed in its game plan to divide minority vote," he added.
 
 
