NEW DELHI: Days after a BJP MP from UP’s Robertsganj wrote a letter to PM Narendra Modi asking him "to protect the honour of the Dalits", another BJP MP from the state today wrote to the Prime Minister on the increasing marginalisation of the Dalit community in India.

 
 BJP MP from UP’s Nagina, Yashwant Singh, wrote to the Prime Minister urging him to ensure reservation in private sector and to appeal against the Supreme Court's recent order on the  .
 
 In a March 20 order, the apex court had said that no arrest would be affected on a complaint under the Act without an inquiry.
  
  
 Elaborating on his education credentials, Singh said that it was only because of reservation that he became a Rajya Sabha member.
 
 
 "Being a Dalit, my capabilities have not been put to use, I only became an MP because of reservation," he wrote.
 
 An MD from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and having cleared the United States Medical Licensing Examination, Singh further added that reservation is an essential lifeline for the people of his community.
 
 "In 4 years the government has done nothing for the 30 crore Dalits of the country," he added.
 
 Recently, Chote Lal Kharwar, tribal MP from Robertsganj, had written a letter to Prime Minister Modi, alleging mistreatment by the Yogi Adityanath-led government.
 
 In the letter, Kharwar complained about a local party functionary helping the rival Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in a block-level election and undermining his efforts. He said attempts were being made to induct the BSP rival into the BJP.
 
 Chhotelal said the apparent grudge was that a Dalit had been elected from a general seat.
 
 Chhotelal said he met state BJP chief Mahendra Nath Pandey thrice "to save his dignity". He also met state BJP General Secretary Sunil Bansal and other party functionaries, but there was no help.
 
 "So, I met the Chief Minister twice but did not get any help. I was scolded and shunted out," Chhotelal said.
 
 The BJP MP also said he was threatened with a pistol by an opponent who used abusive, casteist language against him, but the police did not register a case.
 
 "Tired over lack of response, I wrote to the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes," he said.
 
 "I request you to protect the honour of Dalits and adivasis...," he said in his letter to Modi.
 
 Chhotelal, a film artiste and Bhojpuri singer, also sought registration of a case against those who he claimed had attacked him.
 
 
 
 
