TRICHY: In a much-needed impetus to the  , the  , a special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed to implement development projetcs, has planned to issue work order this week to prepare the detailed project report ( ) for four major projects. The announcement comes nearly a year after the city was inducted into the Union government’s smart city mission.

 The eligible consultant will be selected based on bidding price to prepare DPRs for projects, namely redevelopment of   and Chathiram bus stand, multi-level car parking and smart road. Besides the four major projects, the corporation said that DPRs of three projects under the Smart City Mission are making progress.
 
 The Centre through the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) in 2015 had mooted the plan to develop 100 smart cities that can be considered as a masterpiece in developing infrastructure in other cities. Though   did not make the cut in the first two rounds, it was ranked in the third list of 30 cities released by the Centre in June 2017 based on the smart city proposal (SCP) submitted by the corporation. 
 
 As Trichy Corporation had chalked out plans at an estimate of Rs 1,271.04 crore, it is said that Union and state governments will contribute Rs 1,000 crore as aid while the remaining sum has to be met by the civic body on its own. 
 
 The civic body in late 2017 formed the Tiruchirappalli Smart City Limited to implement development projects covering pan city and area based developments (ABD) about 7 sqkm around the Rockfort.
 
 “Technical bids were scrutinised based on which one of three consultants was rejected. Two remaining consultants will be invited to bid prices for the projects. Based on merit a consultant will be selected within this week,” a senior corporation official said. 
 
 After providing work order to the identified consultant and deadline would be provided for preparing DPR for the four projects and also prepare the financial estimate for each works. “Multi-level car parking and two-wheeler parking has been planned on two-acres land on WB Road to address parking difficulties in and around Singarathope. Various models will be explored to identify the suitable one,” the official added. 
 
 Commenting on the recent development, corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said that the smart city mission has been making steady progress though the city’s name surfaced among the list of smart cities among cities in the state.
 
 
