THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The local self-government ( ) department's decision to initiate disciplinary action against three officials of the engineering wing of   has sparked off serious dissent among section officials. 

 
 The LSG department decided to take action against the officials after chief town planning ( ) vigilance reported irregularities in building permit issued to construct a commercial building near the  .
 
 CTP vigilance reported that the corporation granted building permit for a commercial building on the temple premises in 2015 though the applicant failed to produce a no-objection certificate ( ) from the Archaeological survey of India ( ). 
 
 As per CTP report, the ministry of tourism and culture has declared the Vadakkunnathan Temple as a centrally-protected monument and made the 100m distance around it as a prohibited area and 300m distance around it as a regulated area.
 
 The   engineering wing has now raised objections to the CTP vigilance's contention that the proposed construction comes under the regulated area and hence an NOC from the ASI was mandatory. 
 
 The chief engineer, LSGD, has said that the Kerala municipality building rules ( ) do not mention about the NoC from the ASI. The accused officials in the statement of defence pointed out that no construction was carried out as per building permit issued.
 
 They also said the NOC from the ASI and the geology department were not mandated in KMBR 1999 and hence, there was no violation of rules. CTP vigilance, however, cites that violation of rules of KMBR 1999 was evident in the case and invoked rule 11(2) of KMBR, which directs the secretary to approve the plan and issue permit to execute the work only in accordance with building rules and by-laws made under KMBR act or any other law.
 
 "How many acts should we refer to before a permit is issued. If there is a detailed town planning scheme or a master plan, we can follow the provisions. Otherwise, how would an official know which all places would require an NOC from ASI," an engineering official associated with a civic body said.
 
 The case had also reached the Kerala administrative tribunal, which has directed the government to hear the accused persons.
 
 CTP vigilance reported that the Thrissur corporation granted permit for a commercial building on the premises of Vadakkunnathan Temple without an NOC from Archaeological survey of India. 
 
 
