Visakhapatnam: The 114-year-old  , a heritage structure which has seen the transformation of Visakhapatnam from a fishing harbour into one of the fastest-growing cities in the country, is now suffering the travails of old age with a municipal corporation doing little to improve its condition.

 Located in Old Town, the building, which was inaugurated in 1904, is now in a dilapidated condition with a crumbling roof that is in dire need of repairs. There is talk of repairs but nothing has happened as yet, say locals.
 
 The Town Hall, built by the Maharaja of Bobbili, had hosted many important meetings during India’s freedom struggle and had witnessed high points in Vizag’s socio-cultural and literary circuit. It played host to great personalities like Sir CV Raman and Dr S Radhakrishnan. However, the building rapidly descended into disrepair as it was being rented out for weddings and functions, which was stopped two years ago.
 
 The building has wooden floors, Mangalore-tiled pitched roof and stone towers with spire-shaped tops.
 
 Heritage activist and member of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) Sohan Hatangadi said, “Though the GVMC had taken the first steps in preventing further deterioration by cancelling the lease of the premises to someone renting it out for weddings and littering it with filth a couple of years ago, the building is now in a rundown condition and needs repair.”
 
 However, despite assurances from the corporation to revive one of the most important heritage structures of Vizag, implementation of the same has not taken place. 
 
 “Lack of funds to preserve the heritage buildings, management skills and willingness could be the reason. It is quite possible to raise funds from donors, business houses and corporations including crowdfunding to get this building fixed and operational. The corporation should allow public spirited members of society to form a body with the goal of restoring this building. Obviously, we will still need plenty of support and hand-holding from the administration,” Hatangadi said.
 
 Sources from the municipal corporation said there are plans to renovate the Town Hall and the Old Municipal Office Building and said some parts of funds from the Smart City project and World Bank would be utilised for sprucing up the building.
 
 
