This former Miss India finalist is one of the reigning stars of   cinema. A little known fact is that Rakul Preet Singh’s first film was in  , which she admits she did only to be able to buy a car. Now, during her recent visit to the city — as a mentor for the fbb Femina Miss India South pageant — we caught up with her to talk about her Bengaluru connect, learning Telugu, casting couch and more. Excerpts...
 
 
 Every time I come to Bengaluru, my schedule is so cut-to-cut, I want to spend one extra day the next time because I have so many memories here. I might not remember all of them, but I would like to refresh them. I want to explore the city visit the places that I hear everyone else talking about so much. My younger brother was born here. My first school was in Bengaluru. My dad was in the army, so, those memories are vivid — of visiting Kids Kemp and other such destinations. MG Road and Brigade Road were the places to visit. I want to see what Bengaluru has turned out to be. I haven’t been to those places in many years. 
 Memories of shooting for my first film (  in Kannada) are barely any. I was just starting out and had such a tough time learning Kannada. I had to focus on that and acting was new, so I was mainly occupied with that. But now is when I think I can make time to explore. 
 
 
 
 At times it does, because even in my reactions I have become so Telugu. I’ve internalized mannerisms and phrases that I picked up there. Even when I am in Mumbai and I am out with friends, or when I am driving or angry or need to react instinctively, I end up saying something in Telugu. This is what actually surprises me the most. One day, when I was chilling with my friends in Hyderabad, they told me that they also cannot believe how I now think in Telugu. 
 
 
 
 It was a very organic process. I am, by nature, a very hard working person. I believe it is my duty to learn the language that I am working in. From the first day that I started working in the Telugu industry, I started learning the language. Within a year, I began talking broken Telugu. It kept improving day by day because I made a conscious effort to talk in that language. I am a people person and I cannot be sitting with a bunch of Telugu people and keep talking in English. They won’t connect with you. I’d rather be the person who says ‘Nenu kooda Telugulu jokes cheyali, nenu kooda punch dialogues cheyali’. I have to crack jokes in Telugu and be one among them. If I’m living in Hyderabad, I need to be a Hyderabadi. The least you can do for a language that gives you so much respect, love and work is learn it. I find it very odd that people cannot communicate in the language even after working for so many years. This was the only thought and I feel now I speak as fluently as a Telugite. 
 
 
 
 I am a south Indian actor and I have got my identity from here. I began from Telugu and then I spread to Tamil and Hindi. This is something that I know and I owe a lot to them for that. What hurts me is that media would sometimes write lines like ‘coming from north’. See, I’ve adapted myself to this whole culture and this whole idea of being Telugu and I feel they are my people. The moment I see two Telugu people in the crowd, I automatically say ‘Ela unnaru’ (how are you). So when I see write-ups that still call me from the north, I feel affected for that minute. I’m a Telugu ammayi.
 
 
 
 I do see a lot of people getting proud over the idea of where they come from in India, rather than their Indian identity. No one has treated me nor have I faced this kind of regional fanaticism, but I have seen that when working in the north, people don’t know what kind of work is being done in the south. They feel that the two industries are different. I’m often asked this question — how is it working in the south. But, there isn’t any difference. You work with either good people or bad people, that’s the only difference. Industry is industry, professionalism is professionalism and people who know how to work well will do exactly that, be it there or here. 
 
 
 
 In India, we find something interesting and we start talking about it for six months and then we forget about it. There are a lot more important and bigger things to be spoken about I feel. People forget the rapes that happen. Topics like casting couch are discussed and debated more because there is more masala there. Having said that, I feel that the basic human nature is that of an opportunist. One cannot do anything about it and it is a male dominated world. How you strive in that world is what defines you. Having worked in 20-odd films, I’ve not faced a situation where someone has tried to act funny with me. This is a message to aspiring girls also, it is not easy. Nobody is going to spend `20-30 crores on a film just because you are an easy girl. It is talent that survives and you need to have that in your head. It is about what you project and I think I come across as a person they cannot really speak much to. I’ve heard of things, but I don’t know how they function. I’ve been lucky that I’ve got all good people around me. If you work on your talent, then you will get work sooner or later. 
 
 
 
 I’d love to do work on the digital platform, if something interesting comes my way. Digital is the way forward. People have become extremely picky about what they want and will only go to the cinema halls if there is a good film. Otherwise, everyone now prefers watching films on their mobile phones when travelling. Great content can be told on this medium because the restrictions are much lesser. 
 
 
 
