CHANDIGARH: From discovering hidden objects, a scavenger hunt to decoding mudras and solving jigsaw puzzles, visitors had a gala time at the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, on Sunday. The museum celebrated its 50th anniversary on Sunday and there was also a plethora of activities to choose from to keep the visitors busy all day long.

 The museum was inaugurated on May 6, 1968. On the golden jubilee celebrations, people from different walks of life, including a large number of tourists, dropped in at the museum. The participants had a fun time playing scavenger hunt, where they were given a list of description of different objects, which they had to find in the museum within half an hour.
 
 In the ‘hair and there’ activity, two patterns of hair of Buddha as depicted in the Gandhara sculptures in the museum had to be identified. The children in the age group of 5 to 7 enjoyed playing the ‘great object hunt’. The toddlers went around hunting for objects, which could decompose in the next 10 years if buried. The little ones also hunted for objects that insects could eat or objects which were made of more than one material.
 
 In fact, each gallery had its set of activities. However, it was the special walk by   of the   on ‘Secrets of Chandigarh Museum’, which attracted a lot of attention. The visitors also came to know about interesting facts on the anniversary celebration of the museum. Did you know out of 102 objects stolen in 1970 from the museum, 43 were returned through an anonymous parcel? Moreover, several Sikh manuscripts donated to the museum by Late Man   also has an interesting story. The visitors learnt that many   were brought to Amritsar from gurdwaras of Pakistan after 1947 Partition and given to SGPC. SGPC decided that only those ‘granths’ which were in a better condition would be preserved. However, the fragile ones, which were not in a position to repair, would be destroyed after following the right procedure and rituals.
 
 A clay modelling workshop under the supervision of city-based sculptor   was also held. Visitors including kids were seen creating sculptors of Buddha, utensils and clay animals among other things.
 
