JAIPUR: The   state   for protection of child rights has decided to visit the   to investigate charges of harassment against two teachers leveled by a girl student. The commission members would be visiting the school next week to meet the students and the academic staff for the probe.

 Sippi Mahendra, a resident of  , had complained to the commission that his daughter was deliberately failed in annual exams and was harassed by two teachers at the school. The commission had summoned the school principal and the two accused teachers, along with the student’s parents, to hear the matter on Thursday.
 
 Surprisingly, school’s principal Krishna Bhati reached the commission office with nearly 25 of her teachers—as against the two who were summoned. The move was seen as the school administration’s pressure tactics but the commission members said they would go ahead with the probe.
 
 Commission member Jayshree Garg told TOI, “We will discuss the case at our board meeting on Monday (May 14) and form a committee that will visit the school to directly meet students and the staff so as to conduct a fair investigation.” She added, “We heard the complainants, the principal and the accused teachers. We will not be influenced by the teachers who came here in support of the accused, without being summoned.”
 
 The girl’s father Mahendra told TOI, “My daughter is a handball player who represented the school at the national level and won gold medals at many state and national tournaments. Instead of being proud of her achievements, the teachers started taunting her for not being able to attend classes and marked her absent though she was out representing the school. They ultimately failed her in the annual exams. My wife met the teachers many times in the school and even went to their houses requesting to tell what our daughter’s fault was. But the teachers never responded.”
 
 The girl’s parents have demanded re-tests or revaluation of the exam copies by a third party—not by the same school’s teachers—to avoid any bias.
 
 Speaking to reporters, principal Krishna Bhati said, “I never received a written complaint from the girl’s parents though they verbally told me about their discomfort. It is difficult to allow the student to give a re-test since she has failed in three subjects. As per CBSE guidelines re-test is allowed on failing in one subject. Our school, however, is considerate towards all the children and we will take appropriate action once the investigation is over.”
 
 Commission members Jayshree Garg, Seema Joshi and Uma Ratno and member secretary V Saravana Kumar heard both the parties on Thursday. The commission members told reporters that an unbiased enquiry will be held in the matter.
 
 The school has courted controversies in the past too when the state women commission summoned its principal on charges of harassment of teachers.
 
 
