NEW DELHI:   drastically for this family of four when they discovered that their   had been allegedly   by a man at her  . That was in December 2012, around the same time when the   stirred the conscience of the nation.

 Five years later, the child’s father came forward on Monday to share his heart-wrenching experience with the criminal justice system and how his case ended in an acquittal at the trial court level. He has now appealed in a higher court hoping to get justice for his child. “We sat in the police station from 9am to 9.30pm to register an FIR. My child was asked where she was touched and how much pain she experienced. She was made to repeat her statement again and again for months,” said the father.
 
 “For months, we had to sleep without a fan in the blistering heat of Delhi because our daughter feared it. While being raped, she had been threatened of being hanged from a fan if she said anything. Will hanging her accused bring her justice?” the father asked.
 
 Addressing journalists at Press Club, parents like him, activists and lawyers warned that death penalty may appeal to the emotional quotient of an outraged nation, but for the survivors it is certainly not the route to justice. The death penalty provision could lead to victims being killed by the perpetrators. They sought attention towards the gaps in the justice system, investigation mechanism, lack of rehabilitation and the hard-to-get compensation.
 
 A mother whose son was abused by a group of boys said, “You are talking of death penalty now, but I battled hard for an apology from the boys who abused him before the court, but they got bail. My son lost confidence and never got justice.”
 
 Another parent said that the accused is her own husband and she wants him not to die but face a life term in jail for the trauma he inflicted on their daughter. A mother of three, she is struggling as a single parent devoid of any compensation.
 
 “The move by the Centre to bring in the ordinance was based on brutality and not on any understanding of the dynamics of incest and child abuse, which is of epidemic proportions in India taking place daily,” said Anuja Gupta of RAHI foundation, a centre for women survivors of incest and child sexual abuse.
 
 In 94% of cases, the perpetrator is known to the victim. Introducing the death penalty will further decrease reportage of these cases to the authorities, Gupta feared.
 
 Justice A P Shah, former Delhi high court Chief Justice and former chairman of Law Commission of India, said the remedy offered appears to be based on a wrong diagnosis. “Not only is the enhancement of punishment to include death penalty futile, but it will have disastrous consequences for children. I urge everyone to reject the ordinance and focus on reforming the criminal justice system,” he added.
 
 Advocate Vrinda Grover said the government should address the low conviction rates in cases of sexual violence against children. The pendency in POCSO Act cases is 89% and the conviction rate 28%.
 
 Bharti Ali of HAQ Centre for Child Rights said children are often exposed to the accused and aggressive questioning of the victims persists in courts. The government should focus on these aspects along with plugging the gaps in the judiciary.
 
 
