LUCKNOW: Even as the   began hearing the   on Thursday, a delegation from Lucknow met   in Bengaluru to find an “amicable solution” to the issue.

 The six-member delegation — executive member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board Maulana Salman Husaini Nadvi, UP Sunni Central Waqf Board chairperson Zufar Farooqui, former IAS officer Anis Ansari, advocate Imran Ahmed, Maulana Wasif Hasan Waizi of Teeli Wali Masjid and director of Objective Research and Development Athar Husain — had a three-hour meeting with the Art of Living founder.
 
 “We discussed various aspects of the dispute and how a consensus can be reached between Hindus and Muslims. Another round of meeting can be held in Ayodhya in March where seers and clerics will discuss the issue,” Athar Husain told TOI after the meeting.
 
 Farooqui said, "The waqf board is ready for all kinds of negotiations, provided people from both sides are present at the table."
 
 Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s spokesman Gautam told TOI that 16 organisations were represented in the meeting, including people from Bengaluru. “Sri Sri Ravi Shankar’s motive is to end the issue as soon as possible and do so amicably. Another round of talks will be held in Ayodhya and we are coordinating with people who will be invited for discussions. Guruji could visit Ayodhya in February,” he said.
 
 In November last year, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar had held talks with stakeholders and religious heads in Lucknow and Ayodhya for an amicable settlement to the dispute.
 
 In a related development, Pandit Amarnath Mishra of the newly formed Ayodhya Sadbhavna Samanvay Samiti sent a three-point written proposal to Maulana Salman Husaini Nadvi. The first proposal suggests giving 10 acres undisputed land in Ayodhya (owned by Nirmohi Akhara) to Muslims in place of the disputed site. Second suggests setting up of an international university in the name of Bahadur Shah Zafar on the Gorakhpur highway under Ayodhya constituency and a mosque inside its premises. The last proposal suggests building a mosque in the vicinity of the disputed site where a wood-cutting unit is now functional. The last proposal, Mishra said, was endorsed by over 10,000 locals of Ayodhya during a signature camp last year.
 
 
