Nagpur: Two days before their final exam, several Master of Business Administration (MBA) students have complained they fear rejection of their mandatory project report, carrying 200 marks, due to a mistake in the syllabus. Surprisingly, Nagpur University (NU) and affiliated colleges had failed to notice the error, though the   was notified in September 2017.

 The guidelines for MBA project report, a mini research, in the syllabus say that it has to be submitted “one month prior to commencement of BBA sixth semester exam”. As BBA exams ended on March 31, teachers and students are worried that the exam section may reject their submissions. The MBA final exams are to start from April 27.
 
 Management teachers alleged that the syllabus was copied from some other university’s syllabus for BBA course, and therefore the one notified by NU reads “submission of project report shall be one month prior to BBA sixth semester exam”. The discrepancy cannot be described as a simple typographical error, where ‘B’ was printed instead of ‘M’, since there are only four semesters in MBA course.
 
 However, some students approached TOI, complaining that they were confused and feared the exam section may reject their project report. “The exam section officials go by what is prescribed in the syllabus. Unless there is a correction, the officials won’t entertain any requests. Many students are yet to complete their project reports as on Tuesday. The MBA exams commence in two days, but the BBA final exams ended last month itself,” a management teacher said.
 
 The teacher added that so far students and colleges were expecting that the exam section will bring the error to the notice of the special task committee, which frames the syllabus.
 
 Former Pro-VC and dean of commerce and management faculty Vinayak Deshpande said the mention of ‘BBA’ was a typographical error, while one-month condition was prescribed to prevent delays. “Generally, project reports are not submitted by students on time. Hence, we had included the condition to make them complete the work on time, so that the result processing is not affected,” Deshpande said.
 
 Deshpande, who is head of NU’s department of business management, said that it should have been clear to students and teachers from clause no. 9 that it was an error. The clause states that project report is compulsory for MBA fourth semester students.
 
 
