Mumbai: In just about an hour of   before close on Tuesday, the   lost 430 points (1.3%) to settle at 33,317 — a near three-month closing low. The slide came on fears of foreign fund selloffs, summons to 31 banks — including two large private lenders—by an agency investigating the   fraud, and hardening of  . Investors lost during the final hour of the session about Rs 1.6 lakh crore worth of wealth as BSE’s market capitalisation dipped to around Rs 149 lakh crore.

 So far in the month,   (FPIs) have net sold stocks worth about Rs 1,200 crore, on top of the Rs 11,000 crore they offloaded in February. Market players feel that   may continue to sell here as there are several factors that weigh against emerging markets, including India. 
 
 In the  , the 10-year government bond yield rose to nearly 7.8% from just under 7.2% exactly three months ago, which results in a higher cost of borrowing for businesses as banks increase their lending and deposit rates. Rising deficits of state governments are another point of bother for the market, dealers said. 
 
 On Tuesday,   investors were also nervous after the government’s   ( ) issued summons to 31 banks, including ICICI and Axis Bank, in a case related to extending loans worth Rs 5,000 crore to Gitanjali Gems, promoted by Mehul Choksi. Along with Nirav Modi, Choksi is one of the main accused in the PNB fraud case.
 
 On the global stage, the proposal by US to impose steep import duties on steel and aluminium is expected to escalate into a trade war with other large exporting countries and nations considering retaliatory action. This, too, is keeping investors on edge as India — being a relatively smaller player globally — may be hurt by such a trade war. 
 
 With so many factors weighing on the market, brokers expect volatile sessions in the days to come. According to   president Jayant Manglik, the markets would remain choppy in the near term due to bank scams, volatile global markets, continued selling pressure from FPIs and fear of faster than anticipated interest rate hikes in the US. “Market participants will keep a close watch on macro data like IIP, WPI and CPI,” Manglik said. Among the 30 sensex stocks, 26 closed in the red with   (down 3%) and SBI (down 2.8%) leading the laggards. Among the four advances,   (up 1.2%) and Tata Steel (up 0.7%) were at the top.
 
 
