PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) why the medicine scam probe should not be handed over to the central investigation agency and asked the court registrar office to provide them all the related documents. 

 Coming down heavily on the state government, the division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay also ordered the health department principal secretary to file a counter affidavit within two weeks’ time on serious allegations regarding the recent transfer of drug inspector Sacchidanand Prasad, who had unearthed the scam.
 
 The court also ordered the CBI to study the documents and reply within two weeks’ time why the scam probe related to sale of expired medicine be handed over to it, looking on its interstate connection and poor response from state machinery on the issue so far.
 
 The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by social activist Vikash Chandra alias Guddu Baba. Advocate general Lalit Kishore appeared for the state while Bipin Kumar Sinha represented the CBI. The bench had appointed senior advocate Rajendra Prasad Singh as amicus curiae on the issue.
 
 It was Prasad’s raids on the medicine shops and investigations which had revealed that expired lifesaving drugs and anti-snake venom serum were being restamped with changed expiry date and retail price at several locations in Patna and sold in the city as well as in other districts of the state. His raids had exposed the black marketeering of medicines meant for supply to government hospitals for free distribution among patients in open market. These drugs, meant for even Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) besides other government hospitals were sold in open market even after their expiry dates with new labels.
 
 A copy of the investigation report of Prasad, which runs into thousand pages, was also submitted before the court by the petitioner. The documents showed that the serums were manufactured by a Mumbai-based pharmaceutical firm and were meant for supply in Gujarat. Prasad had contacted the firm which had replied that serums seized in Patna were actually supplied to Gujarat. Prasad, in his report, had also mentioned that the serums after expiry were transported to Patna.
 
 The petitioner and amicus curiae assisted by advocate Surendra Kumar Singh questioned the health department’s intentions behind reissuing licence to Hanuman agency for selling medicines despite the fact that it was found involved in running the racket for the last several years.
 
 
