 (CHHATARPUR): He may not be Gaya’s mountain man, Dashrath Manjhi, but this 70-year-old from   is no less. His spirit is equally indomitable.

  singlehandedly dug a 33-feet deep well in 18 months in parched Chhatarpur district of Bundelkhand region to tackle the water crisis ignoring the resistance and reluctance of his family members. A resident of Hadua village under Pratapura village panchayat of Chhatarpur, Sitaram started work for the the well late in the year 2015 — which was completed only in 2017. Unfortunately, the well collapsed during monsoon as without government’s help, Sitaram could not get the walls plastered.
 
 
  
 
 
 Undeterred, Sitaram is willing to pick up the shovel once again, provided he gets some government assistance.
 
 Sitaram is unmarried and lives in a joint family with his younger brother Halke Lodhi, 60. Halke, his two sons and the family owns close to 20-acre of land. “It was a dry season and there was no water. We also did not have any money. So, I decided to dig a well in my farm. My family members said that I should not take such a task until I am sure that we will get water. But, I was determined,” Sitaram told TOI.
 
 “I used to dig from dawn to noon and then again from evening to sunset daily. I dug out the soil and then threw it outside the well — every day for 18 months.
 
 Sitaram’s brother Halke said, “We were not against the well, but the problem was he was adamant of digging it in the farm without being sure whether there will be water or not. At one point, we all decided to stop him but convincing him at this age was tough.” Sitaram says, “After 18 months and 33 feet, we got water in the well. It was good water and everyone was happy. But, the happiness did not last long as during monsoon the water level rose in the well and the walls collapsed within.”
 
 “I am still ready and fit enough to dig it once again, but I have yet not received any government help. Little financial help for plastering the walls of the well will do,” Sitaram said.
 
 There are several government-run schemes including Kapil Dhara Yojana, of the state government for helping the farmers dig wells in a bid to strengthen the irrigation facilities.
 
 Luvkush Nagar Janpad panchayat CEO, R K Sharma said, “I do not know whether the farmer had applied for a well under Kapil Dhara Yojana or not. The total cost of project in that case is Rs 1.8 lakh which borne by government. There is no such scheme to provide help to anyone who has dug his own well.”
 
 
