Archer   Kumari’s simple demeanour belies her spirit as a strong, determined woman. Currently ranking at No 5, the former numero uno archer is raring to go — training nine hours daily for six days a week to win the Olympic gold. The sheer positivity that this small-town, dimpled girl radiates is disarming. Smiling widely, she says, “Once I get the Olympic Gold in 2020, I will strive to get gold in 2024. I am 23 and I will keep doing this.” In an interview with Bombay Times, she talks about her humble beginnings, her trials and tribulations, handling fame and more. Excerpts…

 
 
 Deepika never dreamt that she would be an archer one day. And the reason that led her to take up the sport was not the love of archery, but the circumstances at home. She says, “When I was in school, I did not know anything about archery. My mother was a nurse in RMCH, Ranchi, and my father was a rickshaw driver. Hum garmi mein bina fan ke rehte the, chuhon ke beech. Washroom bhi nahi tha. We used to go to a nearby river to take a bath, where wild elephants roamed about freely. We didn’t even have proper food — we would eat leftover rice with soaked chana for our meals.” 
 
 
 
 It was on one of her vacations at her maternal grandmother’s home in Lohardaga ( ) that she heard about the sport — her second cousin was training to be an archer. “Uss ladki ne mujhe hostel life ke baare mein bataya. I saw archery as an opportunity to stay in a hostel where everything was taken care of. Main family ka burden kam karna chahti thi. So, I took the relevant phone numbers, called up the authorities on my own and fixed everything. But I had to go to   — it was a huge thing then as I was only 12. All hell broke loose when I told my parents about it. But then I told them that I had arranged everything, all they had to do was, accompany me. So, they all came along with me to Jamshedpur — I broke down when I didn’t get selected initially. We were told to get a permission letter from the then CM’s wife. My father got that done and the rest is history.”
 
 
 
 On tasting success, young Deepika asked her father to quit rickshaw driving, but he refused. “He still insists on doing his job and does not want to quit. My father told me, ‘Tum apna kaam karo, main apna kaam karta hoon’. My mother still works as a nurse. My younger sister was training to be an archer and recently got a job, while my brother just appeared for his tenth standard exams.”
 
 
 
 Despite attaining a status of an international athlete, life is not easy in small districts. “People would talk, but all of that would not reach me much, because meri Mamma bahut kam batati thi mujhe. She would say, ‘Usko game pe concentrate karne do. My Papa also supported me, but would, sometimes, get swayed by what his colleagues would tell him. Later, he also began ignoring what people said, says Deepika, adding that together, her parents helped her reach where she is today.
 
 
 
 Early on in her career, Deepika witnessed fandom and took it in her stride. “When I became World No. 1, I didn’t even know how big a deal it was. A girl came up to me and said, ‘I can’t believe that I am standing in front of the World No. 1 archer. Mujhe chakkar aa raha hai, main girne wali hoon…’ It was funny. I am a simple, normal girl and do not really like the fame. I am not into social media. I don’t like being online all the time.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Deepika begins her day early in the morning and then trains the whole day with meal breaks, for six days a week. “I believe in working hard. I train almost nine hours a day for six days a week. Yoga, meditation, gym, cardio, weights, exercises and of course, shooting. Har din ka workout and training planned hota hai.   khana bhi nutritionists plan kartein hain,” she informs. “Now I don’t have to bother about cooking. I get a nutrition-rich food everyday planned by experts. Life changed after I took up this sport.”
 
 
 
