Hyderabad boy   has made   proud by sealing the No. 1 spot in the national sub-junior rankings by winning the bronze medal at the recently concluded India International Regatta. Braving fierce winds, the 15-year-old sailed a near-perfect regatta to finish third behind   of Indonesia (gold) and Alexander Baudin of Sweden (silver) in the Under-16 category. “It feels incredible to become the India No. 1 in the sub-junior category. I always felt I was the best Indian sailor in the category and now I have proved it,” he says beaming with pride.

 A former student of Udbhav School in Chandranagar Colony, Durga credits The Yacht Club of Hyderabad for his achievement and says that the camp organised by the club before the tournament in Krishnapatnam and the training he received under the Indian Navy helped him a lot in this regard. “I want to thank the Yacht Club for believing in me and honing my skills for the last four years and pushing me in the right direction. I also want to thank my coaches in the Indian Navy who helped me sail through all the obstacles and achieve this feat,” says the resident of Rasoolpura, who joined the Indian Navy last August.
 
 Durga was part of a 24-member contingent from Telangana, the largest in the competition. The team bagged eight medals in the tournament which saw 250 sailors from Ireland, Sweden, Hong Kong, UAE, Malaysia, Indonesia and Sri Lanka competing. Praising Durga and his indomitable spirit, Suheim Sheikh, president of The Yatch Club of Hyderabad, says, “Durga puts in a lot of hard work and results are for everyone to see. He has just turned 15 and he has many good years ahead of him. 
 
 Now, he has graduated to the Laser category and I believe he is peaking at the right time,” adds Suheim, who believes that Durga has it in him to win medals for India at the international level. “Now the Asian Games too have incorporated Laser boats and if Durga keeps his pace and fitness intact, India can hope for a medal. But he has to put on a little weight for the Laser category. He weighs about 52 kg now and has to add another 10 to 12 kg to be able to balance the boat better,” says Suheim.
 
  Durga comes from a humble background. While his father is a photocopy shop owner in Rasoolpura, his mother works as a housekeeper in a private showroom. His father, Erra Lingam, beams with pride when talking about his son’s achievement. “For the last four to five years, Durga has faced many challenges and I am glad he overcame all of them to make a mark in water sports in the country. He has a knack for winning medals and I hope he continues this run and gets India a medal in the Asian and Commonwealth Games,” says Erra Lingam. 
 
 Durga, who is now undergoing training in the INS Mandovi (a provost and physical training school for Indian Navy in Goa), dreams of wearing the Indian Navy uniform and becoming a naval officer. “I am happy being a part of the Army Boys Sports Company (a collaborative venture of SAI and Indian Army) and want to be a naval officer someday,” he says.
 
 
