She’s demure, coy and has a very welcoming personality onscreen, which appeals to most viewers of the small screen. Hence, it was natural that  , better known as Radha from  , has won the top slot in Bangalore Times’ 15   Women 2017. She caught up with us, talking about work, marriage and more. Excerpts...

 
 
 Yes. This means that I’m doing good on TV. The project is doing good, people are watching it and liking it — isn’t that desirable! For me, desirability is not only about the appearance, but it is the way you are inside out. That is when you are most desirable — people shouldn’t think you’re fake. When you act, you should really feel like you’re the character. Add to this the attitude you carry both on and off the screen, because everyone is so reachable and accessible through social media. So, people are watching you always. 
 
 
 
 It feels great to be recognised as Radha. I’m an architect. I never thought I would have a career in acting. I debuted with the serial  . The serial clocked 600 episodes. I didn’t know what to do next. I then decided that I needed to be associated with a channel and show that was doing better than that. I landed Radha Ramana, a serial that was slated to air on prime time and I was sure it would do really good. It has given me a good push and recognition and I owe everyone who made this happen a lot.
 
 
 I’m like Radha in many ways. Probably, the only thing that would be a little different is the fact that I am more intelligent than Radha in real life (laughs). Also, I don’t meddle in others’ business like Radha does. 
 People, especially elderly women, do not know Shwetha — they only know Radha. When I go out, these people might be strangers to me, but they know me and meet Radha every single day. I receive so much warmth and familiarity from them. They hug me and speak as if they’ve known me for long and this can be awkward, but I understand that they love my character. When people talk about fame and popularity, I’d say popularity is the love that you get from the people.
 
 
 
 People say that opportunities stop after marriage. But, I’m glad that there are people who don’t mind giving opportunities to married women. They don’t stop saying that you’re married. Ultimately, it is the talent that matters. Whether you’re married or unmarried, it boils down to whether you have what the character requires. I’ve been working with sensible people and that's what matters 
 eventually. 
 
 
 
 I’m doing a film now. It is an offbeat film. It might release around July. Again, people have seen me as Radha, a married woman onscreen, so I understand I won’t be offered too many roles in terms of versatility. Or, probably, I haven’t shown them that I can be seen differently. So, the offers have been limited and I’ve been choosy in that. Eventually, when I prove myself on the big screen, like I did on the small screen, I am sure more doors will open for me in recognition of my talent. 
 
 
 
 In my first film, I didn’t want to do the two-songs-and-one-dance routine. This film, titled  , is based on a novel and my character, despite not being onscreen for a long time, has something substantial to offer to the script. I play Kalbettada Kamali, a de-glam role in the film. I’m already doing a de-glam role on TV, but this is much more toned down. So, it made for an 
 interesting choice. 
 
 
 
 
