Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has asked the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department not to disturb a group of shopkeepers -- who challenged their eviction from various temples in Trichy, Madurai, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram districts -- till it files a status report on March 16.

 On Thursday, Justice V Bharathidasan who heard cases filed by Kongu Thanga Maaligai’s R Ramesh, R Jagadeesan of Trichy and G Gunasekarapandian of Rameswaram ordered relief to them. Besides, the court also impleaded Madurai corporation commissioner and the district collector as parties to the case filed by Madurai Pudhumandapam Viyabarikal and Thaiyal Thozhilalarkal Sangam president G Muthupandi. He prayed for a direction to the HR&CE department to permit the members of the petitioner sangam to operate shops in Pudumandapam by unlocking the premises. The mandapam is situated in front of Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. 
 
 Counsel for the petitioners of Trichy told the court that the Thayumanavaswamy temple assistant commissioner (AC) had issued notice to them on February 19 asking them to vacate the shops in 15 days. The AC said that notices were issued based on the Trichy collector’s report on February 13 and the HR&CE commissioner’s circular dated February 14. The petitioners said they had been running the shops for 28 years and were unable to find alternative sites in 15 days. The temple authorities were taking hasty steps. Besides, the AC lacked the jurisdiction to issue notice, the counsel said and prayed to quash the notices. 
 
 Counsel for Rameswaram’s petitioner said that the latter had been running a fruits and sweet shop on West Car Street of Ramanathaswamy temple and was not selling any inflammable items. Hence he wanted the notice issued by the joint commissioner of the temple on February 16 quashed. The counsel for Pudhumandapam said that the mandapam was earlier used as a resting place for devotees. Over a period it became an important place selling handicrafts, utensils and books. The families of 257 members of the sangam had been running shops there for two centuries. After the fire broke out inside Sri Meenakshi Amman temple, the temple authority had asked the shopkeepers to shut down for a week. However, it has since not allowed them to reopen. 
 
 Counsel for HR&CE department said that after the fire broke out in Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, the department had been receiving representations from people to evict shops functioning inside and on the campus of the temple, due to which the department was taking steps to evict shop keepers. As far as Pudumandapam shopkeepers were concerned, there was a proposal in the Madurai corporation to shift them to an alternate site (Kunnathur Chathiram). The court adjourned the case to March 6. 
 
 
