CHANDIGARH: On one hand, the education department is taking punitive measures against the private schools for non-compliance of Right to Education (RTE) Act, on the other hand, it is surpassing duties laid down under the   and notifications made by the education department itself.

 In a recent, Director, School Education, formed two committees to inspect the private schools but none of them includes the district education officer (DEO) even though under RTE Act, this responsibility lies with the DEO. The committees have completed the inspection of most of the schools while the DEO was not even informed about it.
 
 Under Section 18 of RTE Act, every school has to be recognised as per the prescribed format and within the given time. It mentions that the powers to withdraw the  , too, rest with the prescribed authority, which in Chandigarh lies with the DEO. In 2012, the then education secretary had issued a letter notifying the DEO as the local authority for all the schools functioning under the education department.
 
 As per the letter sent by Director, School Education, UT administration,  , two committees have been formed to inspect the schools and the DEO has only been asked to grant a certificate of recognition. While one committee includes deputy director school education   and  , assistant director adult education, the other committee includes deputy director adult education   and Neeta Sandhu, principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 16, Chandigarh.
 
 The committees were given time till March 10 to inspect schools. Now, they will submit their reports. Anujit Kaur, DEO, confirmed the same but refused to comment on the issue.
 
 However, sources from the DEO’s office said that the recognition might not be approved by the DEO because if any problem arises in any of the schools after the grant of recognition, then it will be the DEO who will be answerable being the nodal officer. “But when she has not inspected the school, how can she grant a certificate of recognition to that institute,” said the sources.
 
 Commenting on the issue, Brar said, “DEO is too busy with other matters. The private schools were concerned about the delay, so two deputy directors are heading two teams to expedite.” 
 
 
