It’s always a pleasure to listen to the two of them talk about cinema. Their approach might be different, but their passion for art reflects in their words. In a chat with us,   and Ram, who will be seen together in Aathityaa’s Savarakathi, talk about their ideologies, changing taste of the audiences and why this is a brilliant time for Tamil cinema…

 
 
 : I’ve always liked Mysskin and his work; I can never say no to him. When I was told that this film is a comedy, scripted by him, I was stumped. I had absolutely no faith that he could write a comedy script (laughs). But, he trusted me and was willing to experiment. Only after working on this film did I realise that there’s another side to my persona.
 
 
 
 
 Our ideologies might be different, but the things we love are the same — art. We might be approaching it differently, but the fact is that we love art. If you ask us what films we like, it might be the same ones. But our reasons for enjoying it are different. I think the biggest advantage is that we are different from each other, and that’s why we are individuals and have individuality.
 
  It’s important to have differences because it helps us have a better perspective. The idea is to cross the mountain and reach the lake. I can take the route on the left, and he can take the route on the right, but the motive is to reach the lake. I believe that our style of cinema is defined by our childhood experiences. Literature, be it art, music or whatever, influences us. We process and internalise it. And when it comes to cinema, we express it differently. He can keep a shot for two minutes, and I can finish the same shot in two seconds. But, universal themes are few, and compassion is among them.
 
 
  I play an anda puzhugan.
 
 And my character has anda full-a kovam. While he uses lies to vent out his frustrations, my character hides behind the veil of anger.
 
 
 There’s a fight sequence in the climax and I had to fall on Ram. In the process, he broke his leg. He was in pain, and yet, he literally crawled through the shot. It’s a scene that melted my heart. We are poles apart and have totally different perspective towards life, but we’ve shared a beautiful journey, as artistes and as fellow human beings.
 
 
 Ram doesn’t look at cinema from the point of view of the mass audience. He continues to view cinema from his perspective; he’s clear in his head that he will narrate only what he likes. And that’s what I like about him. However, I don’t like that he smokes a lot. Because, I start smoking looking at him! That said, no one has the right to criticise another person’s personality.   illadha manidhan irundha, adhudhan miga periya kurai.
 
 Very few creators have the ability to look at another creator in awe. But Mysskin appreciates others’ work. And that too, as a rasigan, not just a kalaignan. If he wants to celebrate, he doesn’t throw a party; he calls people together and spends time reading poetries and stories. I met him in 2012 and I can now say that he is slowly becoming a zero. By zero, I mean he’s become egoless and non-materialistic. He has a zen personality, probably because he loves Buddha and has been influenced by literature. He does things without looking for returns. Even his films are a reflection of this — his scripts are almost philosophical, but coated with humour. If there’s anything I don’t like about him, it’s that he doesn’t take care of himself.
 
 
 No, we don’t want to become full-time actors. We have our job and we are practising it. We are clear that we want to stand behind the camera, not appear in front of it. Sometimes, when we write a script, we know we will be able to pull off the character and do it. Now, Ram has asked me to act in his film, and I know it will be a nice story. But we aren’t full-fledged actors and we don’t want to become one, too.
 
 I have acted in two-three films earlier, but we are happy as we are.
 
 I’m doing three movies now — my friend’s independent film Kattumaram, Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s Super Deluxe and Ram Prakash Rayappa’s Suttu Pidikka Utharavu. But we like to be identified as filmmakers. Directors and dictators —that’s a tag I like. 
 
 
  Change is always for the better. We learnt cinema from foreign films, especially European films. Koothu is an integral part of our culture, and hence, we added songs in our films. But we have been assuming that today’s audience, too, loves those things. Comedy scenes, songs — these are tools used to entertain. And now, these tools have really become blunt. Today, all kinds of films are available on the internet. Audiences see them, and question why we can’t make such films. Yaar andha poonaikku mani kattaradhu? For that, you need courage. People who love art, make films by infusing elements that are needed to narrate story. So now, our films have become on par with international ones. This year, I can proudly say that Peranbu, Vetri Maaran’s Vada Chennai, Super Deluxe and Kattumaram all stand a chance of going to Cannes. India is a land of storytellers. And now, we are proving to others that our stories are neither sub-standard nor inferior to theirs.
 
 Tamil cinema has always had place for films like these. In Kerala, these are called arthouse films. Our biggest advantage is that people here don’t classify films like them. All good films are seen by our audiences. During every period, some directors have presented revolutionary content and made films that have been different from the routine. And the audiences have accepted them. Pasi, Veedu, Uthiri Pookkal, Aval Appadithan… all these movies were appreciated. People could see such movies only at festivals like Cannes, Berlin and Venice, but now, they can see such films at home and understand how cinema is approached.
 
  There’s change now, be it simplistic narration or uncomplicated sound designs.
 
 Our cinema has been seeing major changes since 2007. Ten years from now, we will have more directors taking our films to the international audience.
 
 
  Well, Visaaranai was sent the year before. But we are not talking about awards here. When we look at cinema purely from art’s perspective, we only talk about people like   and  . There are only few filmmakers from India whom we refer to in the same breath and none from Tamil cinema. But we are confident that legends from here will be mentioned soon.
 
 
 Taramani got ‘A’ certificate after we muted certain words. In Savarakathi, too, we had to mute some harmless lines. Will the audience understand if a character refers to buttocks as bum or pittam in pure Tamil instead of kundi? Why should we degrade a body part, especially when you are using it as part of a conversation that doesn’t hurt anyone? The CBFC has a list of words that have to be removed if they appear in the film. They don’t see why it’s being used. I argue with them, but   (Mysskin) stays silent.
 
  We can’t say much to the censor officers because when we ask them why they want to remove a word, they say, ‘Rule solludhu sir’. When we write a scene, we try to be truthful to the characters. If a character uses a certain word, we try not to rewrite it because the emotion will go missing. I don’t argue with the officers because when you ask them how the film was, they tell that it’s good, but quickly add, ‘Enga register la indha indha varthai vandha vettanum-nu irukku’. There’s no space for a discussion. If they ask us to explain, we can. But when there’s a problem in just using a word in entirety, I can’t say much. Oru naakku arundhu pona manushangala velila varom. Script-la ezhudhina suvaigal koranju poguthu.
 
 
 My first film was like a dream. An artiste can dream 24X7, but it’s important to make it a reality. I don’t orchestrate my dreams. We all live in a dreamy state. But I think I have woken up. I want to make a period film within a budget. I want to use the skills that I have acquired over 10 years. Sci-fi is also a genre I like.
 
 It’s not a condition that one film shouldn’t look like another when it comes to genre. You like to learn and try new things. All films are important and I try to make them with a lot of respect.
 
 
  You evolve every time you finish a film. Irrespective of what it does to the viewer, art affects its creator — it disturbs or questions him. I am a hypocrite. I think I am changing with every film, but I live in a society, where I have to pretend. I have to brand myself to sell my stuff and this disturbs me. But I have to prove myself and move on. Art teaches you to get rid of pretentious things. 
 
 The day I entered cinema, it changed my life. It taught me awareness and attentiveness, it enriched my idea about life. It’s sheer pleasure to be a filmmaker. It has taught me to create sincerely, to listen to audiences’ accolades and viewpoints with sincerity. It’s beautiful to be a director, a creative person. It reduces all your other stress and non-truths. You learn to let go. If you drop me in a remote location, now, I can look at life in a newer perspective. And I thank my art and my audience for that.
 
