MUMBAI: Shipping Minister Nitin Gadkari’s barrage of criticism against the navy for blocking “development” in the form of a floating jetty in south Mumbai has drawn mixed reactions from planners. Some said his response echoes the debate over use and control of public spaces in the island city while others said the government’s approach appeared elitist.

 Gadkari blamed Western Naval Command for stalling the plan to facilitate access to a floatel (a luxury liner converted into afloating hotel) off   and said the navy, while putting a spoke in government plans to expedite projects in south Mumbai, was keen on acquiring land in the area for housing. “I will not give them an inch…why should they live in south Mumbai,” he said.
 
 The minister’s vehement re- action betrayed the complications of negotiating between multiple agencies who control swathes of land in Mumbai. Nearly 62sq-km of the total 603sq- km in the city is built-up institutional space under railways, defence establishment, Mumbai Port Trust and the Atomic Energy Commission, all of which have safety and security concerns.
 
 Architect and executive director of Urban Design Research Institute, Pankaj  , said if Gadkari’s views meant making land belonging to various agencies available as open public space, it was welcome, provided the initiative was first firmed up with a statutory plan.
 
 “Otherwise it will be just another mill land scam. If he really means naval base and Port Trust must be moved to make way for public open spaces, then first earmark it in the Development Plan as public green spaces so that it is protected by a statutory plan and does not get converted into highrises,” he said.
 
 Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, said a similar plan had unfolded decades ago--the state was to move Mantralaya to Navi Mumbai to decentralize development, but it never happened. “If Income Tax, Customs, Mantralaya, Navy are moved out of south Mumbai it would cut travel time for a large populace,” he said. Kapoor said Dharavi, which was centrally located, must not merely be a residential and commercial hub. “It must be developed for institutions, it will save at least 30-40 minutes in travel time. It will help decongest south Mumbai and create a circular city phenomenon. Gadkari’s statement must not be just brushed away,” he said.
 
 However, some others ques- tioned the need to put pressure on the navy. Architect Nitin Killawala said a floatel was a luxury liner, certainly not for ordinary Mumbaikars. “As for creating new open spaces, first protect the existing ones. Wherever there are defence camps, be it Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, the area is green, and the open spaces are well maintained. In   the only space is the defence area,” he said.
 
