KOLKATA: The state on Monday ordered immediate shut down of all rides on the   premises till the inquiry into Sunday evening’s accident on the Bouncy Castle ride – that had turned turtle during the evening squall and threw off 12 kids — is complete. Five of the children are still in hospital, one of them on ventilation.

 
  
  
 
 “All the rides in the park will remain suspended till the inquiry into the incident is over,” state urban development minister Firhad Hakim said on Monday, adding that he has asked the chairman of Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation ( ), which manages Eco Park, to form an inquiry committee to look into the accident.
 
 Hakim added that the government had no information about the rides being installed at the park.
 
 “They should introduce rides with the permission of the state. I will ask the Hidco chairman to give a reply. Who had done the work on the ride? What were the safety measures? The rides should have been stopped before the storm,” he said.
 
 Hidco chairman   said they had formed a twomember committee that had started a probe into the case. A senior Hidco official said they would bear the cost of treatment for the injured kids.
 
 Though the park is usually closed on Mondays, 
 visited the spot in the morning and founda number of curious onlookers, policemen and media professionals who kept that portion of the park — behind the ‘Seven Wonders of the World’ and accessible through gate No. 4— crowded.
 
 The two-member inquiry committee, along with officers from New Town police station, inspected the area around 11.30pm and collected samples. Among some of the materials they collected were pieces of the rope that tied the Mickey Mouse-shaped inflatable ride to two iron rods.
 
 “It happened all of a sudden. There was a strong wind and we were approaching closing time when the accident happened. A gust of wind snapped the ropes and the ride was swept away for a good 10m before it hit the paved pathway and turned turtle. The children were thrown into the air. Those who fell on the grass patch escaped with minor injuries, but the others fell on the tiled road and sustained severe injuries,” said a guard at the park.
 
 Parents of the injured kids alleged that none of the guards had come to their help and offered no medical assistance even after seeing the children bleed profusely. “It was only after cops arrived that they brought in ambulances,” said Sheila Kaushal, mother of an injured child.
 
 The park began operations in December 2012 and is now one of the biggest amusement parks in Asia with around14 rides and several attractions like a butterfly garden, Seven Wonders of the World and a deer park. The   inflatable ride is one of the most common rides available and similar ones are often set up at birthday parties and local fairs.
 
 Officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said they had started a separate probe into the events leading to the accident. “We have asked for the   footage and are trying to find out what went wrong. Preliminarily, it seems that the ride lost balance. However, we are trying to find out if there was any laxity on the part of the park authorities,” said a senior officer.
 
 
