MUMBAI: With the city experiencing a heat wave-like last month as maximum temperatures touched 41 degrees Celsius, power utility firms expect peak demand for electricity to shoot up by 10% this  .

 Discoms, including BEST,  ,   Energy and  , are making extra arrangements to procure more electricity to ensure   despite the heavy demand. The normal supply of power in the entire city is between 2,500MW and 3,000MW, and the peak demand requires a supply of up to 3,400MW during summer due to increased use of air-conditioners and other appliances, sources said. 
 
  
  
 “We expect peak demand to cross 1650MW in the suburbs during April-June,” said a Reliance Energy official. “We have long-term power purchase agreements to buy 1262MW of power and have tied up additional 250MW power purchase. We have also made arrangements to buy additional power, if required.” Reliance Energy has the biggest population of nearly 30 lakh consumers.
 
 BEST too has made arrangements to procure extra power (150-250MW), apart from its regular power purchase of 932MW for supply to areas between Colaba and Sion-Mahim.
 
 A Tata Power official said this summer, the firm will source more power from its own generating plants at Trombay and from outside Mumbai to cater to the increasing demand of nearly 7 lakh consumers. “The company is well-prepared to handle the peak load challenge. It has taken measures like maintaining appropriate margins and keeping sufficient redundancies in its distribution system infrastructure to ensure uninterrupted supply,” its spokesperson said.
 
 According to power experts, one household may consume 40% more electricity on hot days. Since weather can’t be controlled, power utility firms are advising consumers to conserve energy by keeping ACs at 24-26 degrees, cleaning AC filters at regular intervals and using tinted glass or solar films on windows. 
 
 Officials have also suggested that consumers use electrical appliances in ‘stand-by mode’ as this consumes less energy, and switch off AC, television and washing machine from the plug point, when not required. For commercial and industrial consumers, there are inbuilt incentives in the tariff mechanism, like time of the day tariff, that prompt consumers to shift the energy use from peak to non-peak hours. 
 
 
