In the fan-crazed Telugu film industry, we’ve often seen heated battles between two sections of fans, peppered with caustic memes, gifs and mindless banter, spill over to social media. But this time, Tollywood fans have taken things to the next level — they have decided to battle it out with each other on Hollywood star Tom Cruise’s official page. Yep, no kidding!
It all started when   shared the teaser of his upcoming spy thriller   —Fallout on his official Facebook page. In a matter of minutes, the comments section of the post turned into a battleground for a war of words between   and Jr   fans.
 Sample this: “Tom cruise you are an illiterate in front of Mahesh babu. If our sweety star Mahesh babu is a watermelon u r a seed in that. Better you go and watch brahmotsavam and spyder then you will recognise what is your range (sic)” reads a comment from one fan.
 Interestingly, some Mahesh Babu fans were quick to disown these cringeworthy comments, and pointed out that it’s all the work of his ‘anti-fans’, ie., fans of NTR Jr!. 
 Like this gentleman here who took the trouble to spell out the politics of it all, for the benefit of Cruise — “Ignore the comments of our fellow Indians about actor Mahesh Babu. They are actually his anti-fans (fans of Jr NTR ) who are trying to defame Mahesh Babu ( one of the top actors in South India). Because Jr NTR is a big loser here, who can’t survive without caste-based fans. They (Jr NTR fans) did this just to grab attention. Yes, it is a publicity stunt from Jr fans Better to ignore such people, they are no less than terrorists (sic).”
 Now, this incited the latter group, and it wasn’t long before Tom Cruise’s official page unwittingly played host to an embarrassing slugfest of epic proportions, between the two sparring fan clans. 
 
 If you think that’s bizarre, then you haven’t seen anything yet. In typical Tollywood chest-thumping, thigh-slapping fashion, some fans went on to rubbish all things Hollywood, including Cruise’s multi-million dollar Mission Impossible franchise, with a mere punchline or two. Hear, hear — “The number of people waiting for Bharat Ane Nenu is greater than the number of people waiting for Mission Impossible,” declared a Mahesh Babu fan. 
 Not ones to back down, NTR fans went a step further and stated that the Top Gun actor will be blown away if he comes face to face with their ‘Young Tiger’, a moniker for NTR. “NTR thoda kodithe, Tom Cruise Mission Possible ipoddi ra khabaddar” (If NTR slaps his thigh (a sign of machismo), Tom Cruise’s ‘Mission’ will become ‘possible’),” a fan thundered. Sigh! And so the comments go on and on, some asking Cruise to learn stunts watching Mahesh’s Spyder; others reccomending he watch NTR’s Shakti to learn a thing or two about acting.
 
 
 That tsunami of comments wasn’t lost on genuine MI lovers and Tom Cruise fans who had dropped by to check out the poster. The reactions ranged from puzzled and bemused to frustrated. ‘Who the hell is Mahesh Babu? And who the hell cares?” asked one commenter, wondering what was happening. others took the trolling quite literally and slammed Tollywood fans for insulting Tom Cruise. 
 “So much jealousy around here! Tom is the best! Why they’re talking about some Indian I-don’t-know-who? Geez! (sic),’ wrote a Tom Cruise fan from Brazil. Others felt that an actor of Tom Cruise’s stature deserved more respect. 
 “What’s with these Indians (not all) and overglorifying their actors? Yeah you’ve said it once, no need to keep on repeating it over and over. Show some respect. (sic),” posted a user from the Phillippines. 
 
 
 Calling these “juvenile” antics of the fans “ridiculous”, film buffs and critics have expressed shock at their behaviour. “When their heroes’ films aren’t releasing, these fans resort to such trolling to justify their existence. Instead of appreciating what their favourite star does, fans these days have started abusing other heroes. They just need a platform and have found one in Tom Cruise’s page,” says film critic  , who himself has been subject to a lot of trolling on social media. The film critic and former Bigg Boss contestant feels that by trolling each other on the official page of a Hollywood star, these fans are bringing great embarrassment to Tollywood. “They are only exposing our film industry! we are not making films that are anywhere close to Hollywood standards. As much as we like to claim that Baahubali is of international standards, Hollywood is light years ahead of us in terms of filmmaking. So seeking global attention in this way is unwarranted,” Kathi added.
 Say what you want, the unperturbed fans continue their gimmicks. Meanwhile, we can’t help but wonder what Tom Cruise will make of it all when he sees this, if he hasn’t already. 
 
