NAGPUR: Even three years after the   ordered action against forest officials and employees in the infamous Pachgaon illegal mining case, the forest department is dithering allegedly to protect senior officials.

 On May 6, 2015, on a criminal application against illegal mining on reserve forest land, Justices AB   and   had directed lodging of FIRs for offences under the Indian Forest Act (IFA) as well as IPC against officers/employees and report in two months.
 
 The court had also directed to recover loss of revenue from each of them and quantify the amount of loss to be recovered including loss incurred by the petitioner. HC asked that this be done in two months and complete departmental enquiry (DE) in 6 months.
 
 However, three years later there is no action against senior officials. What action has been taken has been against forest guards, foresters and some RFOs but senior IFS and state officials are ‘deliberately’ being spared by PCCF’s office.
 
 TOI was first to report illegal mining in Pachgaon and adjoining Chimnazari on reserve and protected forest lands. As per the report submitted to the court, the illegal activity continued from January 1, 2001, to November 1, 2013, till it was exposed. A list of 21 officials posted during this period in Nagpur division was also submitted to the court. It was considered one of the biggest mining scams in the country.
 
 On action, chief conservator of forests (CCF) Sanjeev Gaur, Nagpur, said, “We have already issued charge sheets to 15 non-IFS officials. Action against IFS officials is not under my purview. In case of some people, criminal matter has been filed.” 
 
 Virendra Tiwari, CCF and joint secretary at mantralaya, informed a committee constituted by then   had held that 21 officials were prima facie responsible for illegal mining. “Based on the report, on August 3, 2015, government had asked PCCF office to re-examine the role of 21 officials. As a case of natural justice, it told PCCF’s office to issue show-cause notices to explain their stand. If it feels they are responsible then file charge sheets. Despite reminders, we have still not received any report,” said Tiwari.
 
 According to sources, on March 23, 2018, PCCF office wrote to CCF Gaur to issue charge sheets against IFS officials N Rambabu, who was promoted as PCCF a few days ago, PK Mahajan and Naresh Zurmure, who too were promoted as CCFs. All headed the Nagpur division when the gross violations of FCA took place.
 
 “There is no bar on promotions until a DE is initiated and charge sheet served. It now seems PCCF office ‘deliberately’ delayed action against IFS officials so they could be promoted,” they said.
 
 
