THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Is the charm of God's Own Country fading among foreign tourists? Sending out a signal, international tourists' arrival has registered a negative growth during the months of August and September in 2017-an unprecedented dip of 9.05% and 12.62%, respectively. The month of February too was disappointing for the state, clocking 4.29 % less arrival compared to 2016.

 As per the figures provided by the department of economics and statistics for the period January-September 2017, eight districts in the state showed a dip in the arrival of foreign tourists. While, the overall growth in the arrival of foreigners during the period stood at a low 4.23 % when compared to 11.03% growth achieved in case of domestic tourists arrivals.
 
  
  
 
 Though tough competition from neighbouring countries, inadequate infrastructure to accommodate more tourists and products that have lost their freshness could be major reasons, as being pointed out by various stakeholders in the industry, tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and tourism officials blame it on high hotel tariff under the GST regime, at least for the two disappointing months.
 
 "There has been a big jump in arrivals till July 2017. But the implementation of 28 % GST on hotel rooms and services jeopardised all our expectations, which is reflected in the months of August and September," said the minister. However, Kerala government's and the industries' interventions at the GST Council have now brought down the tax at least on rooms with a tariff below Rs 7,500, Surendran said.
 
 Putting up a brave face, tourism director P   also said that the downward trend would have already got reversed after September. "We will be able to get hold of the figures of the last three months soon and we expect it to show a good overall growth," he said.
 
 As per the nine months' statistics, there has been a slight increase in the inflow of foreign tourists when compared to the period during the previous year. But, with foreigners mainly focusing on Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts, districts including Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Kasaragod, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kollam and Kannur registered negative growth. Kasargod had to be content with a just 684 foreigners compared to 1,061 visitors the district managed to get during the period in 2016.
 
 However, there has been a significant increase in the inflow of domestic tourists, who preferred mainly destinations in Idukki, Wayanad, Alappuzha, Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts. Guruvayur, the most preferred destination of domestic tourists, showed a slight decrease, and the reasons cited included shortage of water during summer and high GST rates.
 
 Meanwhile, in Thiruvananthapuram the flow of domestic tourists increased from 14,23,821 to 17,50,805, thanks to high footfall in pilgrim tourists visiting Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple.
 
 
