Payal.Dhawan@timesgroup.com 

 Ludhiana: Head teacher of Government Elementary School, Sri Chand Colony, Mundiya Kalan was suspended and another teacher, Savita, was transferred after a video showing two class V students carrying two buckets of garbage to be dumped nearby went viral. Schools teachers and members of their association approached district education officer (Elementary) Jaspreet Kaur saying the video was part of a conspiracy by an area resident and that students often clean the school premises under the Swachh Bharat Mission. 
 
 On Thursday, city resident Anil Arora captured the video of two students lifting heavy buckets of garbage. When he asked them why they were doing so, they said teachers have asked them to dump the garbage in a vacant area around half a kilometre away from the school. Arora went to the school and spoke to the teacher. He filmed the interaction and uploaded it on Facebook. By evening, the video had gone viral and the matter reached officials. Deputy district education officer (DEO) Kuldeep Singh said, “We brought the matter into the notice of director, public instructions (Elementary) Inderjit Singh, who ordered suspension of the head teacher and transferred the class teacher with immediate effect.”
 
 Acting on the directions, DEO Jaspreet Kaur suspended head teacher Charanjit Kaur and transferred class teacher Savita to another school in Iraq of Macchiwara area. Meanwhile, members of the association of elementary teachers, including head teacher Charanjit Kaur, reached the DEO office and submitted a complaint saying that Anil Arora had done this to serve his vested interests. They also accused him for misbehaving with women staff and threatening them. The teachers said students clean the school under the Swacchh Bharat mission and teachers help them with that. 
 
 At this, deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh said, “Students can clean the school under the mission but forcing them to carry heavy buckets of garbage outside the school till one kilometer is not justified. Moreover, students cannot be sent outside the school premises alone.” President, Elementary Teacher Union, Sukhdhir Singh Sekhon said, "The union will submit a complaint to the cyber cell of Ludhiana police against the accused for uploading video of women teachers in which he is misbehaving with them on Facebook." Anil Arora maintained that he did not misbehave with any teacher and took action to expose how government school students are harassed by teachers.
 
 
