RUDRAPUR: A video of a 12-year-old half-naked boy being brutally beaten up by a group of men for allegedly being involved in theft and drug addiction in   area of   district has sent ripples across the state. Police have booked six identified and several unidentified men after a complaint from the victim’s father on Friday.
 
  In a two-minute video, a copy of which is with TOI, the minor can be seen writhing in pain as blows after blows land on his bare back and sometimes on his head as well. The video which was shared on various social media platforms (and later removed from  ) sparked angry reactions from residents who called for strict action against the accused. Taking cognizance of the matter, US Nagar SSP Sadanand Date instructed the Shaktifarm police station to meet the victim's family. Acting on a complaint by the boy's father, police have booked six people under various sections of  .
  
  A Facebook user said, “It is high time that the district police ensures a safe environment for our children.” Another user said, “Whatever is happening is so sickening and that too in Shaktifarm, which is such a harmonious locality. I pledge to speak out against any injustice that I witness.”
  
  As the district police started receiving calls and messages expressing outrage at the incident, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sadanand Date took cognizance of the matter and asked the Shaktifarm police to meet the family of the victim.
  
  Initially, the father of the victim refused to register a complaint but after police assured them safety, a case was lodged.
  
  The victim’s father said, “We are poor and it is easy for them to accuse us of theft. I was afraid to register a case as they would have beaten me up too. My son studies in the same school where the accused’s son is enrolled. They always target us because we are poor.”
  
  Police have booked Anand Sarkar of Shaktifarm village and five other accused — Bablu, Niranjan Heera, Vibhuti Gaain, Shubham Maachi and Deepankar Goldar.
  
  SSP Date said, “The attack was not a case of caste violence as both accused and victim belong to the same community. However, the victim belongs to a poor family. The accused have been booked under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and section 23 of the   Justice Act.”
  
  Police are also conducting raids in the area to nab other unidentified accused.
