KOCHI : Nineteen months ago, chief minister   launched the Kochi   project. But, state government has failed to ensure that tenders were floated for manufacturing modern ferries for the project. 

 When Vijayan launched the project in July 2016 he said the project, which aimed to improve the livelihood of the people living on the islands in Kochi's suburbs, would become a reality in four years.   and Water Metro projects together with bus and train services are expected to revolutionize the city's public transport system.
  
 
 "Water Metro is promoted as a major feeder service for Kochi Metro. It can augment ridership of Kochi Metro, and thus make it more viable. By giving a cold shoulder to Water Metro project, the government is hurting Kochi Metro," said an expert working on Water Metro. The state government's lack of interest in the project is citied as the main reason for the delay in its implementation.
 
 Earlier, Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) managing director APM Mohammed Hanish had said that they intended to float tenders for manufacturing 78 modern boats worth Rs 747 crore by December 31, 2017. He even said that the project was expected to be commissioned on April 14, 2019. Aecom Consortium (a joint venture of Aecom India Pvt Ltd, Urban Mass Transit Company Ltd, and Zebec Marine Consultants Service Pvt Ltd) was appointed as general consultant for the project.
 
 "It appears that disputes, over the material that has to be used for construction of boats, have not ended. There are various lobbies and vested interest groups. Though KMRL said that they had zeroed in on steel boats, we need some clarity on this. If there are disputes the government must sort it out," added the expert.
 
 Those favouring steel boats point out that capital expenditure required for building such boats are less compared to aluminium ones. But, in the long-run due to corrosion and other factors the operational expenditure will be high. "This technology is available locally and there are many players who are interested in it," he said. However, in case of aluminium boats the capital expenditure will be high and operational cost will be less.
 
 "Building such vessels is time consuming and participants who have this technology must be brought in," he said. Moreover, Water Metro proposes to introduce boats with battery driven propulsion.
 
 "The combination of battery and steel is rare. Unless these technical issues are sorted out it will not be possible to go ahead with the process of floating tenders," added the expert.
 
 It is pointed out that a team of Water Metro experts will soon make a presentation before KMRL's managing director on various boats.
 
 Meanwhile, officials with Kochi Metro said a German team from Kfw will visit Kochi on March 21 to discuss the project. "There will be a final presentation. Some issues have to be discussed and sorted out," said a Kochi Metro official.
 
 KMRL officials expressed hope that they would be able to go ahead with the process of floating tenders if these issues get cleared and the tender documents are approved.
 
 
