NOIDA: Issues delaying the construction of three major road projects connecting Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and Faridabad are likely to be resolved by   this year, senior officials of the NCR planning board have said after a meeting with the Noida Authority.

 The projects include the Rs 525-crore  , which has been in a limbo for six years. Proposed in 2012, the 5.54km   corridor is supposed to skirt some of Noida’s busiest routes and stretch from the Chilla regulator to Kalindi Kunj on the Noida border. The project is awaiting a clearance from the Delhi irrigation department.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Officials said there was a proposal to link the elevated road with the Barapullah road in Delhi to provide a seamless ride from AIIMS and Sarai Kale Khan in south Delhi to Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida. It would also provide an option for a ring road and a bypass around Noida.
 
 The other two projects that are likely to see the light of the day are the FNG expressway and a bypass road to Faridabad from the under-construction parallel bridge on the Yamuna.
 
 “For the elevated corridor on the Shahdara drain, the land passes through Noida but the ownership is with Delhi. For the bypass to Faridabad via Badarpur from Maharani Bagh, the land is in Delhi but is owned by the UP irrigation department. Both projects are extremely important for not only decongesting Noida, but also reducing the travel time to Delhi, Faridabad and Ghaziabad,” said an official of the NCR planning board.
 
 “Since clearances, NOCs and approvals have to come from two states, I have requested the chief secretaries of UP and Delhi to hold a meeting and resolve the issues and put the projects on track by March this year,” the official added.
 
 The six-lane parallel bridge across the Yamuna near Kalindi Kunj, which is awaiting a 14km access to Badarpur after a go-ahead from the UP irrigation department, is expected to provide relief to commuters in Delhi, Noida and Faridabad.
 
 Officials said the FNG expressway was also discussed during the meeting on Monday.
 
 
