NEW DELHI: The country’s premier   institute,  , has been hit by another case of medical   in which records were also tampered to hide it. One of the surgeons allegedly made an arteriovenous fistula, a standard vascular procedure used to access blood for haemodialysis treatment in patients with chronic   disease, when the   didn’t have kidney disease.

 Rekha Devi (30) had come to AIIMS with pain in the abdomen which couldn’t be treated effectively in her home state. Samlesh Yadav, her husband, told TOI that her case was being followed up by gynaecology,   and psychiatry departments of AIIMS since December 2017.
 
 On February 7, she was called for exploration under local anaesthesia, a minor procedure. “My wife had had surgery a few years ago in a hospital in Bihar. The doctors said they wanted to explore if some foreign material was left behind and I signed the consent,” Yadav said.
 
 Devi was taken to the minor operation theatre for surgery at 5.30pm, but documents accessed by TOI reveal that the surgeon on duty — an assistant professor — operated and made an arteriovenous fistula. The procedure involves connecting an artery and a vein.
 
 After two hours, the senior nursing officer in the recovery area went to counsel Devi as part of standard protocol. During the conversation, the patient revealed that she did not suffer from any kidney ailment. A corrective procedure was carried out by surgeons on February 8.
 
 “I have brought my wife back to Bihar and she is now undergoing treatment at a local private hospital. She is doing fine,” Yadav said.
 
 AIIMS had formed a committee to inquire into the matter. The preliminary report submitted to medical superintendent Dr D K Sharma indicts the surgeon for medical error. “Instead of acknowledging the error, an attempt has been made by the erring doctor to hush up the matter. The documents were forged, which is a bigger misdeed than the medical error itself,” the report states.
 
 The report added that after the medical error came to notice, the treating doctor simply closed and sent back the patient without planning for requisite surgical procedure for which Devi had come to AIIMS. The committee has called for punitive action against the erring doctor, which may include taking him off clinical duties for a defined period. AIIMS officials said the matter is under investigation and action will be taken.
 
 This medical negligence case comes close on the heels of another incident that rocked the premier institute last year. Rajbir Kaur, a nursing officer at AIIMS, was admitted at the institute on January 16, 2017 for normal delivery. She died allegedly due to medical negligence leading to protests by the nursing union and termination of the services of a senior resident of anaesthesiology who was on duty.
 
