By Prachi Arya

 Govind Namdev, best known for his villainous characters in films like The Bandit Queen and Oh My God, had been shooting for a film in the city recently. We caught up with the actor for a tete-a-tete. "My shooting experience in Lucknow was fabulous. I am very positive about Lucknow. The way people cooperated and behaved, is way better than any other small town and city. People here have now, I think, got used to seeing stars shooting in the city, which has made them so familiar with the atmosphere. No one disturbs the shoot. Mujhe bahut achha lag raha hai yahan shooting karna," he says.
 Namdev has also shot in the city for the film Shaadi Mein Zaroor Aana last year. Recalling those days, he says, "We shot at various spots in the city and we were here for a very long time. The support that we got from the people really helped us to shoot. There was some kind of positivity that is observed here." 
 Govind, who’s mostly played villainous characters, says that he always wanted to play a villain. "When I came to Mumbai from Delhi, I observed one thing that Hindi films have only three types of roles that are the centre of attraction - the hero, heroine and villain. I was too old at that time to be a hero and the slot for heroine was not for me. So in the end, being a villain was my last resort. From then I started doing roles which were actually successful whether it was in Shola Aur Shabnam, Lajja or  ," says the actor.
 For the actor, portraying the character of   in Bandit Queen was one of the most difficult and challenging roles of his acting career. Govind tells us that even his family members were not supportive of the kind of role he played in the movie. "My wife started hating me when she saw my character in the film. She was shocked and disturbed to see me like this. Her first reaction after watching the film was to kill me. Even I was shocked as to how can a person be so cruel and brutal in real life. Portraying the character of Thakur Sri Ram was indeed a challenging task for me," says he, adding, "There is a story behind this character. During my shooting days, we went to Chambal and I was very confused regarding my character as I had never done this kind of role earlier. I only knew that I had to play a character that is obnoxious. There was no research work regarding the character. Since the film was based on Phoolan Devi, we had to visit the jail where she was imprisoned, for the narration of the story. Dolly Ahluwalia, who was looking after the costumes, urged to meet Phoolan Devi and when she went to meet her she came back crying. On being asked she told us how Phoolan Devi had narrated her entire story and that’s when she showed her how the Thakur had plucked flesh from her chest when she was raped. So this helped me to know about the intricacies of the character that I had to portray. Ab jab-jab log woh film dekhte hain, toh mujhe gaali zaroor padti hai."
 Completing his silver jubilee on screen and spending more than 25 years in Bollywood, Govind feels that a lot of transitions have taken place in acting as well as storylines and filmmaking over the years. "There is change in every 10 years in   in terms of content, storyline, and issues. I still remember the movies that were made 20 years ago. The filmmakers focussed on social issues, they were not commercial. Jo bhi content tha it used to be society oriented and moral-centric. There used to be a moral or lesson in every film. Koi na koi aisi baat hoti thi jo public ko achhi lage and it used to spread a spirit of positivity among the masses. And the makers used to denote a lot of time to one film so that it goes beyond perfection. But now with the advancement of technology, filmmaking has also gone under a lot of alterations. Aajkal ki films ka total commercial angle hai and plus the investment of money is so high that it is making people think in that manner and somehow a person gets deprived of the real ethics and essence of filmmaking because of high investment. Now since past two-three years, films are going more towards biopic, realistic issues which are of low budget and are highly appreciated by the people. We are now trying in to get into the shoes of the Western culture. For example, movies like Dangal, they searched for children to play the young   sisters and then train them and even roped in people from abroad for stunts, which was pretty much evident when we saw it on the big screen."
 Talking about that one character he would still love to play, Namdev says, "I have played all kinds of characters in this last 25 years and I have no desperation for more characters. But if you ask me about a character that I want to play, then I think playing   would be my first preference. The character of Hitler used to interest me even as a kid as he was a poet, a romantic person, a writer. And I used to think that a person with so much of artistic sensibility, suddenly how can he become so ruthless and start killing thousands of people. This transition inside a person’s psychology fascinates me to play that character," says the actor.
 Namdev also shot for a film in Banaras. Talking about his experience in the holy city, he says, "We shot on the ghats and roads and the public really helped us. And we got some interesting locations to shoot at as well in Banaras. I made a promise to myself that I will come again in future with my family and stay at the ghats to experience the mystic aura of the Ganga and the ghats of Banaras," said he. 
 
