Mumbai: An early lead for the   in   state election’s results took the sensex on Tuesday to an over three-month high of nearly 36,000. But the initial euphoria among   traders faded as talk of a Congress-JD(S) alliance gained momentum, pulling the index down to close in the red. The sensex hit an intra-day high of 35,994, up about 440 points, before sinking to a low of 35,498 (a swing of 496 points in all ) and finally closing 13 points lower at 35,544. 

 The market’s disappointment came from the fact that, in the closing days of the Karnataka poll process, traders were expecting a BJP win, which was reflected in the late rally on Friday. According to   Securities head (retail research) Siddharth Khemka, investors usually prefer a stable government and a decisive mandate is something the markets always take positively. 
 
 “Going by last few weeks’ trends, markets were factoring in a decisive win for the BJP. While they may be short of the majority mark, the BJP has emerged as the single largest party and that trend is something that could help them in the upcoming general elections,” Khemka said.
 
 With a series of state elections scheduled before the Lok Sabha elections in less than a year, market players now see volatility as the rule. 
 
 In addition, the weakness of the rupee, geopolitical developments, domestic corporate results over the next few quarters and also the health of the economy would play a major role in deciding market trend, they said. 
 
  president Jayant Manglik said, “The ongoing corporate earnings season and global developments are likely to dictate the market trend in the near term. With more results scheduled in the next one-two weeks, stock-specific volatility is likely to remain high. Behaviour of crude oil prices and currency movement will be closely monitored by market participants.” 
 
 Outside of the main index, however, mid- and small-cap stocks faced strong selling pressure with the BSE’s mid-cap index closing 0.8% lower, while the small-cap index closed 0.7% down. 
 
 As a result, investors were left poorer by about Rs 42,000 crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation down to Rs 149.4 lakh crore.
 
 The day’s session also witnessed strong foreign fund selling with net outflow at Rs 518 crore, while domestic funds were net buyers at Rs 531 crore, according to BSE data. One of the main reasons for the foreign fund selling in recent weeks has been the weakness of the rupee, market players said.
 
 
