Gurgaon: A case of negligence has been filed by the police against two   of   in Gurgaon after a medical board inquiry found them prima facie responsible for “delay in proper treatment” of a 51-year-old woman who died of cardiac arrest last year.

 The medical board has said in its report the doctors — chief cardiologist Dr SS Murthy and Dr V Naga Raju — did not administer anti-platelet treatment as per protocol to the patient, Seema Ghai. Seema was admitted on May 12, 2017, after she complained of chest pain. Based on the medical board’s report, an FIR has been filed under Section 304 of the IPC (causing death by negligence). 
 
 “We are informed that an FIR has been lodged in connection with Seema Ghai’s death. We assure (the authorities concerned) of complete assistance and cooperation. We are saddened by the loss and our sympathies go out to the family,” Fortis said in a statement.
 
 The medical board had initiated the probe after Seema’s husband Mukesh accused doctors at the hospital of negligence, resulting in her death.
 
 According to Mukesh, a resident of Ardee City, Seema, a physiotherapist by profession, was rushed to the hospital around 1.35am on May 12. He said she was in full senses when they reached the hospital. An ECG was performed on her at 1.45am which, Mukesh claimed, showed some abnormalities. Her condition deteriorated later, following which the doctor said an angiography would be done at 9am, he said.
 
 Seema was shifted to ICU around 4.20am and around 5am, the doctor told him she needed to be put on life support, said Mukesh, who works as additional general manager (IT) at RITES Limited. Seema, he said, was declared dead at 9.48am. “The hospital wasted the golden hour and the doctors’ approach was very casual and unprofessional,” Mukesh said .
 
 The district medical board found that Dr Raju, who was on emergency duty, ignored the report of the patient’s cardiac enzymes that had apparently prescribed medicines to prevent a heart attack. Later, an angiography was performed that revealed 100% blockage in her left anterior descending artery. Officials said during the probe, Dr Raju “admitted” he did not administer anti-platelets. Dr Murthy claimed he had asked Dr Devendra, the resident cardiologist, to provide “all necessary treatment” to the patient around 2.15am. However, hospital records revealed “proper treatment” was not given, according to the board.
 
 
