UDUPI/KARKALA/ BELTHANGADY: Home Minister Rajnath Singh today accused the   government in poll-bound Karnataka of adopting “the model of political violence” from  , but assured people that   will end the violent targeting of political workers if it comes to power in the state.

 
 “It seems the Congress government in Karnataka has adopted the model of political violence from neighbouring Kerala. Many political workers were killed under Siddaramaiah’s rule. The BJP will bring an end to the political violence after coming to power in Karnataka,” he said.
 
 Addressing a series of campaign meetings for BJP, Singh also claimed there have been 3,781 cases of suicide by farmers during the five-year Congress rule led by Chief Minister  . Singh also expressed concern over the state of law and order in Karnataka, claiming not even senior government officials were safe.
 
 “Who is responsible for the death of Mangaluru DSP M K Ganapathi? Who humiliated Mysore Collector Shikha Rai? Even   was stabbed in his office,” Singh said.
 
 Ganapathy, 51, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at a lodge in Madikeri on July 7, prior to which he gave an interview to a TV channel in which he held a state government minister and senior administration officials responsible “if anything happens” to him.
 
 Karnataka’s lokayukta   was injured at his office in Bengaluru in early March, allegedly by a man angry over Shetty’s refusal to entertain his complaint.
 
 Singh said Siddaramaiah had promised to give Rs 1 lakh to the families of farmers who committed suicide but has not done that yet. “It shows the insensitivity of the Siddaramaiah government.”
 
 Singh said B S Yeddyurappa, BJP's chief ministerial candidate, ran a farmerfriendly government in Karnataka and only he can provide a farmer-friendly government to the state.
 
 Singh said the Siddaramaiah government claims it is “Sidde Sarkar” — but in reality “Sidde Sarkar is Nidde Sarkar” (Siddharamaih government is a sleeping government).
 
 Referring to his close connection with Karnataka, Singh said when he became the BJP national president, Karnataka was the first southern state where the party formed government. 
 
