Gurgaon: For a sport that remains monetarily out of reach of many, a more than 150 percent increase in participation from one Nationals to the next speaks volumes of skating’s growing acceptance.

 The 14th edition of the National Speed   Championship concluded at the city’s iSKATE rink, and for the first time the   introduced cash prizes for the skaters, giving youngsters enough incentive to take up the sport. 
 
 “All kids coming up are very enthusiastic, they’re performing so well on ice,” shared Dr Varsha S Puranik, winner of the second Vasudha Trophy for women speed skaters.
 
 The 30-year-old pocketed Rs. 50,000 after winning gold in the senior ladies’ category (over-19s). In her maiden national championship on ice, back in 2005, Varsha won bronze. This was the fourth time at the event for the Mysore resident, her confidence growing with each outing.
 
 Like most who take to the ice, Varsha was already skilled on roller skates. While the switch from one to the other is fairly easy, the techniques diverge. “They’re two different languages,” claims national coach Avadhut Tawade. According to Col S C Narang (Retd) – director,   Association of India – it’s like adjusting from a cycle to a scooter. If you’ve skated on rollers, he says, you’ve got the balance to skate on ice.
 
 “You just have to get used to the ice,” explains Varsha, who has represented India at the Asian and World levels in roller skating, winning bronze in Asia in 2001, when she was in her early teens.
 
 Ultimately, speed and figure skaters need ice time. “If   and Malaysia can afford to build rinks, then surely India can too,” believes this lab medicine specialist, who’s an MD in microbiology. Still, when she’s not on ice (which is for much of the year), Varsha stays in rhythm by practicing on roller skates.
 
 Her thoughts now turn to the Asian Games, to be hosted by the Indonesian cities of Jakarta and Palembang in August-September. A successful showing on roller skates here, and the ice beckons. “If I win gold, I will then shift to short-track speed skating on ice.”
 
 India’s embrace of skating can be credited to the dedication of mentors like  , coach to Varsha, and Tawade. In 2005, the latter became India’s first international short-track speed skater. 
 
 “Olympic coaches counseled that I should share my knowledge. They advised me to develop the sport here, and try to make it flourish,” he told TOI.
 
 Currently, India has nearly 50 speed and figure skaters of international experience. With regular exposure, medals will follow. And if the Nationals are any indication, skaters from   (seven golds) and Maharashtra (five golds) are likely to lead the Indian charge. Sooner rather than later.
 
 
