When Prime Minister   addressed the UP Investors' Summit in Lucknow last month, amid over 1,000 MoUs and big-ticket pledges by top guns of India Inc, he set an interesting challenge for Uttar Pradesh. 

 "I would like to see who reaches the $ 1 trillion economy first, UP or Maharashtra," he said, in the presence of UP chief minister   and industry leaders like Mukesh Ambani, Kumar Mangalam Birla, Gautam Adani and Anand Mahindra. 
 
 Yogi, however, had chalked out his course long ago. As he went about organizing the summit, at the end of one year as the chief minister of the country's most populous state, his targets were clear - harnessing the vast fertile land, abundant water resources and a staggering youth population. And, when he engages in a conversation with The Times of India, it will be a step forward on this growth path, with the power of youth at its focal point. On March 15, exactly a year after   took over as the CM following BJP sweeping to power in UP with a huge mandate, he will discuss these key issues and more at TOI's Town Hall on "Renewal of Hope: Making UP  ," a platform to brainstorm and draw up a roadmap. Taking part in the programme would be a large number of youth, from Lucknow and various parts of the state, a key component of the drive to push economy and drive growth.
 
 
 
 And, why not? When TOI editors put their heads together planning the programme, a back-of-theenvelope calculation threw up interesting and eye-opening results: Comprising 60% of the state’s population, the number of youth in the state is double that of the population of the whole of the UK.
 
 But, the challenges, if not insurmountable, are aplenty. Social scientists say numbers alone are
 
 not enough. For, if not harnessed properly, youth could go astray and be counter-productive. As for the economy, calculations show that despite a higher growth rate than Maharashtra, UP would require far more years than its western counterpart to turn into a $ 1 trillion economy, given its lower GDP.
 
 So, generating hope – the theme of TOI’s effort -- is task number 1. On March 15, TOI’s Lucknow edition will do just that for a state it has been writing about for over three-and-a-half decades now: Light a ray of hope.
 
 
