“I don’t understand why so much so much hungama over a movie? She perhaps didn’t even exist and at best was a mythological figure,” said someone I know in a debate around a topic that has consumed a lot of our attention recently, particularly last week. People can’t seem to understand how is it that a   has become an issue of Rajput pride and honour, to the extent that it has led to despicable violence.

 Government inaction aside, while we pass judgment on people believing in the myth of  , it is also true that we ourselves consume and propagate many myths in our lives every day. Not just through our religion or culture but also through the   we passionately buy and the leaders we are die-hard supporters of.
 
 We all live in myth. Not to confuse it with the way it is used in common English — this one is not completely imaginary or false. According to the ancient Greek philosophers, myth comes from the word ‘mythos’ and logic comes from the word ‘logos’.Mythical thinking and logical thinking both provide an account of the world, but they do so in very different ways.Those using the logical approach see the world scientifically and empirically. Truth discovered through ‘logos’ seeks to be objective and universal.
 
 Those using mythical thinking, on the other hand, approach the world through less direct, more intuitive means. Truth discovered through ‘mythos’ is more subjective, based on individual feelings and experiences.Without ‘mythos’, one wouldn't have the same emotive power to influence decisions and behaviours. Myth is not a falsehood, it is a truth that is subjective, intuitive, cultural and grounded in faith.
 
 And if myth is an idea, mythology is the ecosystem or vehicle that carries the idea. Mythology constitutes stories, symbols and rituals that make myth tangible. Over a period of time, myths lead to beliefs and mythology leads to customs.
 
 What started as a fictionalised poem written by Malik Muhammad Jayasi got converted into a myth as it was transferred over four centuries through Persian and Urdu adaptations, Rajput ballads, a colonial re-telling by James Todd and Bengali adaptations that have built Padmavati as a Rajput queen who committed ‘johar’ to protect her honour.
 
 Iconic brands, whether people or products, also get propagated in a similar construct. Narendra Modi as the ‘chaiwala’ who became the leader of the nation is an example that is closest to us. And comics like Bal Narendra, as well as stories about his working 20 hours a day, are an attempt to propagate a certain mythology that creates believers. So does Steve Jobs dropping out of college, because myth is often associated with the owner and his struggles and eventual triumph. The fact that Steve Jobs dropped out of college built the mythology around brand Apple. It wouldn’t have been as romantic a story if he had not.
 
 The dotcom world is full of myths of how and where the business idea came from. Would the Google mythology be as strong if it was not started in a garage?
 
 “As a storyteller, you want to position the problems in the foreground and show how you’ve overcome them,” says Robert McKee, one of the world’s best-known screenwriting lecturers. Painting a rosy, streamlined picture is the farthest thing from a myth. It’s boring and banal. No wonder, Rahul Gandhi is finding it difficult to create a myth.
 
 ‘Logos’, or facts, will still create buyers and consumers of the brand but myths create passionate followers(standing in queue overnight before an iPhone launch, for instance).
 
 And that is why the successful create an enduring mythology about themselves. They have mastered the art of storytelling and passed on the responsibility of sharing that story to their brand communities, who do it for them.
 
 
 
 
