CHANDIGARH:   will be celebrated across all churches in the city on Sunday. Around 800 people turned up for the Easter Vigil at Christ The King Cathedral, Sector 19, Chandiagrh. Easter candle was kindled at 11pm, after the lights of the entire church were switched off. Choir recited ten hymns in English, Hindi and Punjabi. A makeshift tomb was built in the church from where Jesus was shown rising at midnight. A service mass will be held on Sunday morning 9am onwards.

 “This is the most important celebration in the Catholic church, even greater than the Christmas. It also symbolises life and death. Suppose, someone does something wrong and corrects himself—that’s a resurrection experience for him. It’s not that there was a resurrection 2000 years ago, it happens every day in our lives,” said Father   at Christ The King Cathedral in Sector 19.
 
 The festival has many motifs associated with rebirth and new life, mainly Easter eggs and Easter bunnies. “In old days, we used to prepare chocolate eggs at home on Easter. Nowadays, we get them from outside,” said  , resident of Naya Gaon.
 
 Amla, Sector 20 resident said, “We are planning to spend Easter with poor kids outside  , Sector 20. In Kerala (her native state), Easter is celebrated at a larger scale. The Way of Cross procession went beyond the Church premises and brought the city to standstill. Also, the hymns here are different.”
 
 Easter is a Christian festival that celebrates resurrection of Jesus Christ and marks the end of Lent, the 40-day period of fasting. According to the Bible, Jesus rose from the dead on the third day following his crucifixion on Good Friday. Resurrection marks the triumph of good over evil. It marks the end of Holy Week and Lent Period. Unlike Christmas, Easter’s date is movable. 
 
 At   (Churches of north India), Sector 18, a procession will begin at 5am in which the kindled candle will be taken around Sector 18. Morning service will begin at 5.30am. The programme will end with the fellowship lunch.
 
 
