KOLKATA: Pujashree De stood at the Hudco bus stop on a scorching afternoon, sweating profusely. “I have been waiting for the last 10 minutes in this heat, but there’s no way I can take refuge inside the bus shelter. Though it has two split ACs, none work and the interior is suffocating,” said the Bidhan Abasan resident.

 
  
  
 
 The Kolkata Municipal Corporation, in 2014, had planned 250 AC bus shelters for the city without drawing up a policy on the upkeep. In the last four years, about half a dozen AC bus stops have come up in the corporation area and two in the South Dum Dum municipality ( ). 
  checked out five in the   area and the two at Sreebhumi and Lake Town this week and found only the last two functional. Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose “personally supervises” these two to keep them in working order. “The AC bus shelters in my area are in perfect condition because I have hired workers especially for their maintenance,” said Bose.
 
 On the other hand, the city’s first AC bus shelter, located opposite   on Syed Amir Ali Avenue, was locked up and nobody knew if the ACs worked. And commuters had to stand on the road because the closed bus shelter has left no room on the pavement.
 
 On Beliaghata Main Road, MLA Paresh Pal’s name figures prominently on the malfunctioning AC bus shelter. Arati Mondal, who runs a shop in the area, said: “This AC bus stop has light, but the air-conditioners have not been working since the last two years.” The doors were ajar and a beggar was trying to catch some sleep inside.
 
 The ones opposite Apollo Hospital on EM Bypass and at Sinthee in the BT Road area were not working either, forcing commuters to wait on the road. “It’s risky standing on the road, but this is better than inside the stuffy bus shelter,” said Bipasha Guha Thakurta, a schoolteacher from Sinthee. “It’s impossible to use them. With malfunctioning ACs, they are nothing but furnaces,” echoed septuagenarian  , who stood dangerously on BT Road as buses sped by him. “The non-working ACs have made life unsafe because now people have to stand on the street since the bus shelter has occupied the pavement,” he said.
 
 “With the government trying to cut down congestion by persuading people to use public transport, the concept of AC shelters was a hit. But now they are a liability,” a KMC official confessed. “Maintaining the ACs is a headache. Either the doors are left open, resulting in the compressor failing, or there are shortcircuits and voltage fluctuations. Then there’s the nuisance caused by drug addicts and crooks,” the official said.
 
 “Can’t they dismantle the AC bus shelters and replace them with open-air ones?” asked  , a college-goer waiting at the malfunctioning shelter on EM Bypass. “Dismantling will be a major decision. For now, the corporation has decided not to build AC shelters at random, without chalking out the maintenance plan. We are trying to liaise with service providers,” the official said, adding: “The public, too, must be sensitized to use the bus shelters responsibly.”
 
 
  
  
 
