MUMBAI: Low-cost airline IndiGo grounded three Airbus 320 neo (new engine option) aircraft on Friday after the European aviation regulator issued an emergency directive raising concerns over a potential “dual engine” failure in such aircraft that are fitted with a certain category of Pratt and Whitney engines. 

 A320 neos, manufactured by European aircraft manufacturer Airbus and powered by American aerospace manufacturer Pratt and Whitney’s (PW) turbofan engines, have been having engine problems since the time they were inducted into global airline fleet two years ago. Following theEuropean Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) order, Airbus announced it has stopped delivering A320neo jets fitted with PW 1100 engines.
 
 IndiGo is the largest operator of twin-engined A320neo aircraft in the world; all their 32 neos are fitted with PW 1100 engines. IndiGo A320 neos have had the most failures globally: a total of 69 instances of single-engine failure in the 18 months between March 2016 and September 2017.
 
 The Indian regulator, Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ), which accepted the order, did not ground the entire A320neo fleet. The EASA warning is only for a particular “subpopulation” or sub-category of engines within this faulty engine group. 
 
 The EASA warning was necessitated by several occurrences of engine in-flight shut-down and rejected take-off involving A320neo family aeroplanes, said a top DGCA official. 
 
 “While investigation is on to determine the root cause, EASA’s preliminary findings indicated the particular sub-category of PW1100 engines was more susceptible to dual engine failure,” he added. Airbus has also issued an alert to operators of A320 neos, providing instructions to de-pair the affected engines and discontinue operations over routes where the closest runway is more than an hour away.
 
 The DGCA official stressed the above issue is entirely different from issues of bearing failure and combustion chamber failure experienced initially by PW1100 engines, which, he said, have been addressed.
 
 IndiGo’s instances of single-engine failure in 18 months averaged one a week. However, if one engine fails, a twin engine aircraft like an A320 can safely land with the other operative engine. Yet what was brow-raising was the unprecedented frequency with which these engine failures occurred, a world record, said aviation experts.
 
 In the past three decades, technological advances have made engine failures a rare occurrence, with only about 25 (in multi-engine aircraft) a year worldwide, or one engine failure for every million flights. 
 
 Currently, India is the world’s largest operator of A320 neos fitted with the faulty PW 1100 engines. Yet it was only on Friday, after EASA raised an alarm, that the three A320 neos were grounded. The EASA directive does not call for the grounding of A320neo aircraft in which only one of the two engines belong to the sub-category concerned. 
 
 According to a media report, Airbus said there are only 43 engines worldwide of this sub-category. How many of them are with IndiGo is not known. IndiGo did not go into the question. “Airbus and Pratt are working in close cooperation and will be swiftly communicating on the way forward to regain normal operations and resume aircraft deliveries,” said the IndiGo statement, adding it expects to receive a number of Airbus A320 ceos (current engine option, that is, the old version of A320).
 
 Capt Mohan Ranganthan, an air safety expert said: “69 engine failures in 18 months is far too high. Worldwide, it is about two engine failures a month. DGCA should have been proactive. We are lucky a disaster hasn’t taken place.”
 
 Pratt and Whitney in a statement said that with the support of Airbus, they are in close contact with customers to address the results of the EASA findings. “This issue is isolated to a limited subpopulation of engines,” it said. “We have identified the potentially affected engines and communicated with our customers. As a precaution, aircraft with these engines will be addressed in a manner consistent with the operational instructions issued by Airbus,” it added.
 
 The full IndiGo statement 
 
 IndiGo confirms the receiving (of) the recommendations by Pratt & Whitney as well as EASA with respect to the A320neo aircraft powered by PW1100G – JM engines. The recommendations are with respect to a certain sub-population of engines, with a particular engine configuration. IndiGo has only three such affected aircraft. As soon as IndiGo learnt of these developments, IndiGo had proactively withdrawn the three A320neo aircraft from service with effect from February 9. Pratt & Whitney, with the support of Airbus, is in close contact with us to address the results of a recent finding related to the issue raised in the said communication.
 
 Our precautionary measure of grounding the three aircraft resulted in cancellations of some of our flights. But we feel it was the best decision in the interest of our safe and reliable operations. The affected passengers have been accommodated in our other connections and flights of other airlines. The passengers have also been given choice of full refund as well. Safety of aircraft, passenger and crew at IndiGo is of highest priority and at no time it can be compromised with.
 
 
