KANNUR:  ,   which has never heard of any   other than the  , saw a   flag for the first time on Tuesday. The BJP was there to support the residents who are protesting against the   through their paddy fields.

 The inaugural function ahead of the rally organized by the BJP, from Keezhattur to Kannur, was attended by the residents, including people like Suresh Keezhattur and Nambradath Janaki, who were CPM activists till a few months ago. Senior BJP leader and party national secretary Rahul Sinha inaugurated the march led by BJP national executive member P K Krishnadas, which concluded in Kannur town late in the evening.
 
 In his inaugural address, Sinha said that the farmers’ agitation at Keezhattur to protect their paddy fields would ultimately eliminate the CPM in Kerala, in the same way as the farmers’ agitation at Nandigram in West Bengal led to the downfall of the CPM there. “Your agitation will gain the strength to overthrow the CPM and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the next assembly election,” said Sinha, thanking ‘Vayalkilikal’ for defying the CPM’s diktats that would destroy their paddy fields.
 
 The march, ‘Keezhadangilla Keezhattur - Karshaka Raksha march’, was also attended by hundreds of BJP workers apart from senior state leaders.
 
 Meanwhile, the CPM alleged that all the anti-Left forces have come under one umbrella to target the CPM and the LDF government, and the attack on CPM is part of that conspiracy. “The CPM is against blocking development in the name of environment and this alignment was finalized by the National Highway Authority of India, while the government’s duty is to acquire the land identified for the project,” said a statement by the party. The CPM is being targeted by some vested interests for supporting a development project, said the party leadership, which questioned the alternatives proposed by the Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad.
 
 Vayalkilikal denies truck with BJP
 
 Though the participation of the Vayalkilikal in the inaugural function created an impression that they were trapped in the saffron net, its leaders said nothing like that would happen. “We had sought the support of all political parties, including the CPM, and accepted the support extended by all parties, including the BJP. That does not mean that we have joined hands with the BJP, which has its own political agenda,” said Suresh Keezhattur. At the same time there was lack of vigil on the part of Vayalkilikal in sharing the stage with the BJP and hence it has been decided not to repeat it in future with any other parties, he added.
 
