NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the   government to justify its   of giving 20 kilo litres of free   across the board for domestic use. “Nothing should be given free to anybody. Charge 10 paise or one paisa. Nothing should be given free, except where people really need it like the poor,” a bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice C Hari Shankar said.

 The observations came after the court's attention was drawn to this fact by amicus curiae   in a case relating to sharing of water between   and Delhi.
 
 On its part, Delhi Jal Board defended the policy saying it ensured conservation of water as there was a cap of 20 kilo litres on free usage. Not convinced, the bench underlined instances where people had built several floors above the sanctioned limit and installed a meter in each floor to take benefit of the free-water scheme, even though they could afford to pay.
 
 It could be understood if the relief was only being granted to people living in the slum clusters, the court observed, asking DJB if there was any policy to regulate ground water usage as private companies have been draining the water table of the capital.
 
  DJB said such policies are there and assured the bench that it will place it on the next date of hearing on July 23.
 
 Meanwhile, the state of Haryana told the court that it has encashed the cheques for Rs 28.16 crore given to it by DJB for repairing the Delhi Sub Branch Canal (DSBC) which also carries water to the capital, besides the Munak canal.
 
 Haryana informed the bench it has floated tenders for the repairs, which would be opened in June and the work is expected to be completed in four months thereafter.
 
 The court had on May 10 pulled up the Haryana government for not issuing any tender for repairing the old sub-branch canal, despite payment of Rs 28.16 crore to it by the DJB for the work. The court was also displeased with the fact that Haryana had till then not encashed the cheques for the amount though they were sent in March.
 
 HC is hearing a PIL on the issue of water shortage in the city where it had earlier asked the Haryana government to ensure it releases the entire quantity of water required as per the undertaking given to the court.
 
 Haryana has to release 719 cusecs of water per day into Munak canal and 330 cusecs per day in DSBC, according to the undertaking given to court earlier.
 
 
