THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Boosting the prospects of startups in the state, the United Nations Technology Innovation Lab (UNTIL) head   offered to partner with   (KSUM) to set up its technology innovation lab in the state to support innovations for humanity and sustainable development. Top notch investors Manoj Agarwal, Anil Joshi and   among others also promised their support and investment for Kerala stattups.

 On the sidelines of the twoday   conclave at Kovalam that concluded on Saturday, UNTIL head Dianne Dain said, “Technology leaders from various countries across the world are collaborating. We are also collaborating with Kerala government and KSUM. The proposed UNTIL in Kerala will support innovative technology for startups in basic health care and mobile app communications in tracking and preventing the vulnerable from violence and human trafficking. It will be aimed at solving the concerns of the people in a humanitarian approach.”
 
 
 “Women question things differently and their perspective is more humane. Women are looking for apps using artificial intelligence (AI) to reduce maternal mortality, block chain technology for affordable health care linking it with banking and governance, similarly internet of things (IoT) devices to handle domestic chores or concerns of society,” she said.
 
 Priority will be to implement the 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) which include ending poverty, hunger, control climate change, ensure health care, education, gender equality, safe water, sanitation, energy, urbanization, to protect environment and ensure social justice for development globally, she added.
 
 SEA Fund CEO and Co-founder   said that his firm was working in close partnership with KSUM. “We plan to initially invest Rs 5 crore for Kerala-based startups in automation, AI, robotics, healthcare and real estate. Capital investments will be a part of the support, thrust will be to motivate, mentor and help them grow by tapping niche markets outside the state,” he said.
 
 Unicorn India Ventures founder and managing partner Anil Joshi said that Unicorn has already invested in four companies in Kerala among the 15 companies across the country. “We plan to invest in two more startups in Kerala shortly. We have already invested for a company Genrobotics, which has developed a robot to clean the drains and is venturing out to develop more. We had also invested for a couple of companies in Kochi, including Perfect Fit, in latest textile design and automation,” he said.
 
 Rain Maker Ventures cofounder Atul Hegde said the company with its operations in the US, Singapore and Brazil aims at helping business grow in new geography, including India and Middle East.
 
 
