CHANDIGARH: Frolicking youngsters should be very wary when stepping off the Sukhna Lake's Bird Walk and nature trail to enjoy a bash in hideouts among dry bushes and scrub. A hazardous situation was averted when an alert migratory bird photographer stopped a bunch of youths hellbent on taking a "paanga" with a deadly adversary, a camouflaged Russell's viper, on the fallacious assumption it was the similar-looking but non-venomous Rock python.

 The Sukhna habitat nurtures high numbers of the highly-venomous Russell's viper, a serpent which may not move off at the tremors of approaching human feet. It will doggedly stay put and dig its long fangs into the human foot which unwittingly steps onto the camouflaged coil of death. The scene of action was about 50 yards down from the start of the tree-lined aisle of the Bird Walk, branching from Sukhna's promenade at the regulator-end, and next to the board displaying a picture and information on the Spoonbill bird. "I heard some kids saying, 'Ajghar, Ajhgar' (python). They were breaking a stick from the tree when they saw it. It was so perfectly camouflaged that initially even I could not make it out. Soon enough, the situation turned into a mini-circus. Luckily, before anybody did anything rash, I asked everyone to leave and calm was restored for the viper," photographer Munish Jauhar told TOI.
 
 Vipers bask in winters but choose spots that allow them to remain well camouflaged. Snake-rescue veterans   and Salim Khan have rescued vipers from all kinds of habitats, including many from urban or peripheral eco-systems. Vipers are found in abandoned brick piles or building rubble, where they can bask and hide conveniently. In factories and godowns, vipers stow away in warm material like cardboard and old registers/books. Dry leaves, such as jungle floor of the Sukhna, are a favoured spot for viper basking in winter followed by a retreat into burrows of rodents or termite mounds at night.
 
 The scrub jungles lining the Sukhna's banks on the far side are home to Rock pythons, which hibernate in burrows of Indian crested porcupines and bask outside and close to burrows during sunny hours. 
 
 Basking is the most conspicuous thermo-regulatory behavior in many animals that enables them to enhance physiological performance. Very little was known about the ecology, basking and burrow systems of pythons until the   for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON),  , conducted field studies over nine years at the world-famous Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, which habours high numbers of pythons. 
 
 SACON researchers, who included Dr HN Kumara, Aditi Mukherjee, Rajan Pilakandy, Shirish Manchi, C Ramesh and late  , came up fascinating insights into the secretive life of mighty serpents. 
 
 
