NAGPUR: Strong opinions were voiced at a panel discussion organized by NU’s   on the recent development where senior   judges went public with their grievances. Panellist SM Rajan, a senior legal academician, said ‘all four judges must be impeached and jailed’ so that nobody else within the judiciary ‘dares’ to break convention.

 Rajan said, “It’s my opinion that the rebel judges must be taught a lesson because they have breached the protocols of judiciary. Justice Karnan was jailed for contempt of court then how can these four be allowed to go scot free?” Rajan holds a ‘Doctor of Law (LLD)’, the highest academic degree in the legal fraternity. He also opined that ‘political motives’ were behind the step taken by the four SC judges. “I strongly believe that the whole thing is politically motivated because there is no reason to be discontent about roster management. The Chief Justice of India is the master of roster, so why complain?” said Rajan. 
 
 The other three panellists, all lawyers, differed, saying there was no concrete information available in public domain that would suggest a political reason for the SC judges’ decision. Noted lawyer Firdos Mirza said, “The judges themselves have made it clear in the press conference that the major issue was about roster. Immediately, there’s nothing to suggest otherwise.”
 
 Lawyer Ravi Mor agreed, saying all reasons attributed to the judges move were mere speculation. “I have gone through the letter written by the SC judges, line by line. I have also heard the judges speak on TV and by no stretch of imagination can we say that it was politically motivated.”
 
 Well known lawyer   pointed out that there was more to it than meets the eye in this ‘unprecedented step’ taken by the judges. Deshpande said, “Rather than what the judges said, we must focus on what was not said. Maybe the judges could not say everything in front of the media.” He added that it’s about time that discussions start regarding an internal mechanism to handle such issues in future. “There could be an ombudsman kind of a system which can solve differences between the judges,” said Deshpande. 
 
 Mirza said that while speculations in the media continue regarding why the judges took the step, another aspect is being ignored. “Have you ever wondered that maybe the judges have already achieved their objective by going public? Today everyone is discussing the issue of roster management and how things function in the SC. Maybe that’s what they wanted, that everyone should be discussing the issue,” said Mirza. 
 
 While wrapping up the panel discussion,  , principal of the organizing college, said, “It’s a good opportunity for students to learn from experts about important judicial issues.” 
 
 
