GURUGRAM: A popular city-based   has moved court against its former chief executive officer (CEO), alleging that he helped a rival company set up its centre in Delhi, later joined that firm and poached many of its employees.

  International India Private Ltd, through Deepak Singla — an authorised representative of the company — has approached the court against its former CEO Gaurav Malhotra and rival firm   for causing severe financial and reputational harm to the company and its employees.
 
 Singla alleged in his complaint, which has now been registered as an FIR at the Sector 40 police station, that “it has been revealed that Malhotra had begun talks with Medicover Group of Companies” while he was still employed at Bourn Hall.
 
 The company has raised serious allegations against Malhotra, which include “dishonestly assisting Medicover in setting up its centre in India, diverting the petitioner’s funds, poaching the petitioner’s employees who have since joined Medicover, severe mismanagement of Bourn Hall’s finances by approving clearly bogus financial transactions and payments, and falsification of the petitioner’s accounts.
 
 Malhotra has also been accused of using the company’s funds for booking the domain name of the rival company, according to the FIR.
 
 Another employee of the company, who joined Medicover, has also been accused of stealing the data of Bourn Hall. According to the complainant, files like “Lessons from Bourn Hall Clinic” and “Team members for Medicover Centre” were retrieved by the company officials from the laptop returned by Malhotra when he quit. One of these files allegedly contains the name of Dr Sweta Gupta — the then employee of Bourn Hall — who has been referred to as the “candidate for clinical director” at Medicover.
 
 The company, Medicover, has also been accused of changing Bourn Hall’s address on Google maps to its own address in Panchsheel Park, Delhi. “When users of Google maps would type in “Bourn Hall Clinic Delhi” as the search key word, they were shown “Panchsheel Park” as the address and contact details of Medicover clinic against that of Bourn Hall,” alleged the complainant.
 
 Other charges levelled against Malhotra include excessive payments to certain service providers without any explanation. “The monthly retainership of one vendor, Bhagwan Jha and Associates, who is now found to have been providing consultancy to the accused had increased from Rs. 60,000 to an amount between Rs 2 lakh and 2.6 lakh per month without any rationale or documentation to support such increase whatsoever,” the complaint charged. Acting on the court’s order, an FIR was registered against Malhotra on February 28.
 
 Denying the allegations, Malhotra said, “We have increased the business (of Bourn Hall) from Rs 1.5crore to around Rs 30 crore in three years. We were then pressured to do unethical practices like sending couples for sex selection to Dubai, which we refused as it was against our ethics. This is a case of professional jealousy where they have not been able to do good business due to poor business practices,” he said.
 
 “The FIR has been filed with a malafide intent of trying to extort money by threatening and intimidating the ex-employees. Medicover has done extremely well in last two years and that reflects the strong leadership capability. They are trying to malign Medicover due to professional jealousy...” he alleged.
 
 
