CHANDIGARH: After mooting a proposal of increasing registration fee of non-commercial vehicles, the UT transport department has now proposed to hike the registration fee of commercial vehicles as well.

 
 The department has mooted both the proposals. The department has proposed to increase the registration fee of commercial vehicles costing up to Rs 20 lakh from 6% to 8%, while for vehicles above Rs 20 lakh the fee has been proposed to be increased from 8% to 10%.
 
 
 In the non-commercial vehicles, the department has proposed to hike the registration fee from 6% to 8% on vehicles costing up to Rs 20 lakh, while for vehicles costing more than Rs 20 lakh registration fee has been proposed to increase from 8% to 10%. The transport department charge lump sum registration fee, which excludes GST and other taxes at the time of registration of new vehicles.
 
 
 According to sources, both the proposals have been discussed and will be implemented after taking approval from the administrator.
 
 
 On an average, around 2,000 vehicles are sold every month in the city. Annually, the administration earns revenue of Rs 600 crore in the form of taxes by sale of cars. There are a total of 52 automobile agencies of different cars and two-wheelers manufacturers operating from phases I and II of Industrial Area.
 
 
 The hike in registration fee will further push the revenue generated by the administration. In the recent years, Chandigarh has been the highest revenue — both tax and non-tax — generating Union Territory without a legislature. Amongst all the five UTs — Chandigarh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep — without legislatures, Chandigarh has generated highest revenue of around Rs 5,500 crore this financial year. According to sources, the UT administration has committed to the finance ministry for generating more revenue in the next financial year. Revenue generated by administration is not used in city as the administration draws and deposits money in the Consolidated Fund of India.
 
