Surya apologizes to Chandra for his bad behavior. He pleads the latter to convey his apology to his mother Rajyam aunty and requests him to convince her to stay with the family. Chandra accepts Surya’s apology and agrees to talk to his mother.

 Sam meets Surya in private to console him. To Surya who admits to be absolutely clueless and helpless about the proceedings around him, Sam tries to offer some peace of mind. Surya thanks Sam for her kind words and leaves.
 
 In some other part of the world, Adhitya feels apologetic about the pain he is causing to his own family. He makes a confession to his girlfriend Samyu. As she emphasizes on the need to mend his ways, Adhitya takes it as a reminder to stay undeterred about his revenge. Adhitya even vows not to feel sympathy or remorse ever again. He thanks Samyu for reminding him of his goal and leaves.
 
 On the flip-side, Sam who wants to help Surya deal with the current problems reveals about Adithya's revenge plans to Surya. But much to her astonishment, Surya’s reaction is quite alarming. Initially shocked to know that his elder brother is behind the entire trauma, Surya is upset with his mother for disowning his brother and also keeping this a secret all this while. An enraged Surya decides to kill his mother. Frightened by Surya’s rage, Sam lies about her story. She says it was just her imagination and suspicion. Annoyed with Sam, Surya warns her to never propagate this story to anyone else.
 
 Twist in the tale – it is Adithya again pretending to be Surya. And innocent Sam, who is not aware of this, spills the beans to the wrong person.
 Meanwhile, Jayanthi and her wannabe daughter-in-law Samanya try to form a bond. Samanya gets to know about the entire episode from Jayanthi. She even suggests Jayanthi to perform their (Surya-Samanya) wedding as early as possible. Sam, who overhears their conversation, intervenes and reminds that Surya will not approve of the wedding until she is around. But no one notices the trouble lurking over – Adithya who is waiting to make a move.
 
 
