MOHALI: Angry residents of   and Pushp Empire in Peer Muchalla in   on Friday demanded a magisterial probe into the attempt to evict them from their flats on Thursday night in the wake of the four-storey  .

 Zirakpur municipal council (MC) at 10pm on Thursday told residents to vacate their flats within two hours, triggering protests. The move was finally foiled. The MC staff and police had retreated by midnight. The team had sealed four non-occupied flats, but de-sealed them after intervention of residents.
 
 On Friday, residents gheraoed the office of MC executive officer (EO)   and thronged the court of executive magistrate to plead their suffering at the hands of the MC staff. Shabnam Parmar, a homemaker, said, “We spent the night on the road with a fear of being evicted from our houses. The EO came with his team and police, announcing to evict the flats. We have spent our hard-earned money to buy the houses. Under what capacity, the MC can get us vacated. We demand a magisterial probe.”
 
 Other residents were also upset and disturbed over the announcement. They alleged some of the officials in the team were under the influence of liquor. Reena Rana, Pawan Aggarwal and Harish Sharma, local residents, said, “We strongly demand action against those MC officials who attempted to evict us. They also asked us to sign the eviction notice by giving two hours ultimatum. This is non-constitutional.”
 
 Later, the residents met MC president  .
 
 
 
 The residents have filed a complaint against the municipal council officials with deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal and MC president Kulvinder Singh Sohi. They have also signed a complaint letter in which they have alleged that the MC action to vacate their premises was unjustified and unlawful. They have demanded a probe into the episode.
 
 
 
 The notice, which was served upon residents, stated, “No person will occupy or allowed others persons to occupy any new building for any purpose whatsoever until such building or part thereof has been certified by in every respect by competent authority to the sanctioned plan and fit for the use for which it has been erected. Hence notice is being served upon you to evict the houses, as the buildings are not safe for living and if any untoward incident occurs, then you yourself will be responsible for the mishap and will have to face the legal action.’
 
 
