NEW DELHI: Students of   have alleged that they were denied permission for an "educational excursion" on the ground that they were not being accompanied by a female teacher. The students have now written to the  , alleging that despite clearing all procedures, the HOD, SPK Jena, had refused to give a go-ahead. Claiming that they had missed out on travel concessions, the students demanded that their cancellation money be reimbursed. 

 Responding to the allegations, Jena said he had "neither approved nor cancelled the trip" and that "it is a convention that a female teacher must accompany girl students". He said: "The students didn't follow proper procedure. They didn't submit details about who all were going for the trip. It was only later that I found that a non-teaching staff member's name had been added to the list." 
 
 In their complaint submitted to VC on March 3 and accessed by TOI, the students, however, claimed that while the HOD guided them about the process, he never formally consented to the trip and "gave us excuses only". The students claimed that 71 of them had on January 23 communicated in writing their interest to go on a trip to Puducherry from March 2 to 11. "Despite this, there was an inordinate delay on part of the HOD in granting a formal approval for the trip. The reason given by Jena for the delay was that he needed clarifications from the finance office of the university regarding funds that would be available for the trip, before he could grant an approval," the letter stated. 
 
 "The HOD kept telling us that the matter is under consideration and we must continue with the procedures," a student said on the condition of anonymity.
 
 On February 8, after the department council meeting, "the HOD reported that the proposal for the trip had been received by him, and was under process. However, as no lady teacher from the department was accompanying the students, it was not possible for the HOD to grant a formal approval to the trip (sic)", the complaint stated.
 
 The students claimed that "there is no rule in the university that a female teacher accompanying students on educational excursions was mandatory".
 
 
 
 
