AGRA: Agra police have decided to register criminal cases, which attract imprisonment, against tourists using drones around the iconic  . 

  The decision to crack down on drone users was taken on Sunday, as warnings have not deterred people from using the machines around the protected monument. 
 
 According to officials, drones have been sighted, in and around the world heritage monument, nearly 20 times in 2017, but despite provisions of initiating criminal action against the users, no action has been taken by police till date. Confirming the move, city superintendent of police   said that a person caught using a drone around the Taj will be booked under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. 
 
 Singh admitted that so far no action has been taken against any tourists for using drones and offenders were generally let off after a warning. Maintaining that the use of drones is strictly prohibited in and around Taj due to "security reasons", Singh said that they will initially run an awareness campaign to ensure that people are aware about this prohibition. He said after the awareness campaign, anyone caught using drones within the monument complex would be booked. Singh added, "We are contacting hotel owners and their associations and briefing them about this and are advising them to make their guests aware about this prohibition."
 
  Sources said that recently, the   had issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for handling of sub-conventional aerial platform threats in the country. In targets of such threats, besides state secretariat, assembly and airports, ASI-protected monuments were also mentioned. These included structures which might not be detected by radar but can be sighted visually. "The SOP also states that it is prudent to make general public aware about the prohibition of use of such platforms without the required permissions," a source added.   commandant for Agra, Brij Bhushan said, "We can't shoot down a drone if it is sighted, as there are no orders in this regard. Flying of such machines can only be stopped if police take appropriate action against offenders. This will deter others from using drones in or around the Taj."
 
  "CISF personnel check and scan the baggage of tourists thoroughly, but sometimes people manage to operate the drones from outside the Taj. Putting a jammer at the monument complex can also be a good alternative," Bhushan added.
 
 
