Tirupur: The district administration transferred the panchayat secretary at Nanjiyampalayam panchayat near Dharapuram after villagers complained that an irrigation tank, which the officials claimed they dug, did not exist at all. While panchayat secretary Nagaraj was transferred within the Dharapuram block, villagers cried foul, saying that the administration was hesitating to take stringent action against him. According to the annual expenditure record maintained by Nanjiyampalayam panchayat, authorities had dug a new irrigation tank in Chettikalam under MGNREGS this year. The record shows that out of the 1,100 cubic meter, around 850 cubic meter has been dug so far. But, no irrigation tank exists in the hamlet as per the village administrative officer,” said BJP functionary KS Raja. “Chettikalam was a place used as a stockyard for harvested produces, before they were transported to the market. But the officials were trying to create an oral record by distorting it as ‘Chettikulam’. As per the panchayat office record, the officials have used Rs 4.3lakh out of allocated fund of Rs 4.66 lakh,” Raja said. “Panchayat secretary Nagaraj, in collusion with former panchayat president Chithra Palanisamy, swindled the public money,” he said. According to the district administration sources, Nagaraj was transferred to two villages in the Dharapuram block in the last two days. First, he was directed to report at Nathampalayam panchayat and then to Bommanallur panchayat. “How can the transfer be adequate punishment? The administration should take stringent action against him. This fraud could be brought to light only because I participated in a special grama sabha meeting held in Nanjiyampalayam on May 18. Nobody knows ho many such misappropriations have happened without the knowledge of the villagers. So, the collector should order re-audit of all the works claimed to have carried out in last 10 years in all panchayats,” Raja added. A senior official with the district rural development agencies told TOI that as per the social audit report, there could be discrepancy over Rs 60,000. “As directed by the collector, assistant project officer of MNREGS and assistant engineer conducted an inquiry into the issue. Once they submit a report, appropriate action will be taken,” he said.