KOLKATA: The security at the US installations in Kolkata - US consulate and   - was stepped up on Thursday following an alert from the Centre on possible threats to the US installations across the country. The advisory from the ministry of home affairs ( ) followed a specific input regarding a possible terror threat to a US installation in a neighbouring country. 

 Sources said security at both the US consulate and USIS was at the "maximum level" with entry and exit completely regulated. This, however, is reviewed by senior officers and the   police station officer-in-charge, twice a day. However, due to the alert, additional forces were mobilised and plainclothes officers deployed to keep track of movements in the vicinity. The entire area is under CCTV surveillance. 
 
 A senior police officer said, "After the   attack, security at the US installations in Kolkata have always been given top priority. Given the additional arrangements, we have put in place mechanisms to review the security details. As a protocol, after any such security-related advisory, we review steps and try to augment it further. This is routine and done periodically. There is nothing to add further to this."
 
 The US consulate did not wish to comment on the media queries. "As a matter of policy, the US consulate general in Kolkata does not comment on matters related to internal security," said Jamie Dragon, American Centre director and spokesperson for US consulate general, Kolkata. 
 
 According to sources, intelligence officers are also wary after a video surfaced of an interview of  's subcontinent second-in-command   on December 26 in which he claimed that the terror organisation is now looking beyond Kashmir to expand in India. As a beginning, the video claimed the terror outfit are trying to motivate youths to hit important Indian cities, sources said. 
 
 In the video, the Al Qaeda leader reportedly says: "If an attack could be carried out in cities such as Kolkata, Bangalore and New Delhi, Indian establishment will come to its senses and its grip on Kashmir will be weakened".
 
 
