Mumbai’s rail system is being expanded and augmented to add 90km of double line tracks at a cost of over Rs11,000 crore,” said Union finance minister Arun Jaitley in this budget speech on Thursday.

 Jaitley’s reference, according to railway officials, was to projects that are part of MUTP III, or the third phase of  . The projects include the Airoli-Kalva Link, the quadrupling of the Virar-Dahanu line, the procurement of 47 AC rakes, and building infrastructure to prevent trespassing (mainly, track crossing, which leads to hundreds of deaths in the   every year).
 
 
 
  
 
 
 This year, Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation ( ), the implementation authority for MUTP, is expecting an allocation of Rs 500-600 crore for the third phase projects. Execution of work will begin in the next financial year, which starts from April. In 2017-18, MUTP III got an allocation of Rs 411 crore, but even contractors for the listed works are yet to be finalized.
 
 “Though allocation was substantial, barely Rs 15-20 crore was spent,” said a senior MRVC official. “This year, we need to spend on land acquisition, besides making payments to contractors. We plan to conclude the loan agreement with the World Bank for MUTP III (both MUTP I and II are World Bank-funded). Also, there are chances that a few projects under MUTP IIIA (see story below) may be included in MUTP III.”
 
 Under MUTP III, WR will quadruple tracks between   and Dahanu.
 
 At present, Virar-Dahanu suburban services are double-line, overlapping with the main line Mumbai-Ahmedabad/Delhi route.
 
 The main line is over-saturated and there is no scope for supplementing suburban services here. A railway official said the construction of an additional double line in the Virar-Dahanu corridor will address commuter demand, facilitating an extension of suburban services from Churchgate to Dahanu Road. The Panvel-Karjat double line too is part of MUTP III, to provide an alternative route from   to CSMT via Panvel, which will be shorter by 23km than the existing route via Kalyan. It will reduce CSMT-Karjat travel by 35-40 minutes by slow locals.
 
