KOLKATA: Things change very quickly in football. Just six weeks back,   looked well in control after beating   on December 3. A string of poor results since then has seen Bagan slide down the   table while the tide has slowly turned in East Bengal’s favour as the two traditional rivals lock horns in the return-leg Kolkata Derby at the Salt Lake Stadium on Sunday.

 
 It is not that the red and golds have been at top of their game but they have not lost a match since that 1-0 loss to Bagan. Five wins in eight games means East Bengal are in third position with 19 points from 10 matches. Three points on Sunday can see them to draw level with leaders Minerva Punjab, albeit having played two matches more. On the flip side, dropping points will only increase Minerva’s lead.
 
 Bagan’s campaign is complete disarray. After picking up 7 points from their first three games, they have dropped a whopping 12 points in six home matches and are languishing in sixth spot. Their chief coach Sanjoy Sen has resigned. They have lost two of their top foreign players - Japanese midfielder Yuta Kinowaki and the mercurial Sony Norde - to long-term injuries. Under assistant coach Shankar Lal Chakraborty, who has been given full-time charge by the club management, they now have to play eight of their nine remaining matches on the road. Needless to say, Bagan are all but out of the title race.
 
 Not since second-leg Kolkata derby in 2012-13 have Bagan gone into an I-League clash with East Bengal with such a big difference in points. Under normal circumstances, Bagan supporters would have been bubbling over at the prospect of doing a ‘double’ on their arch-rivals in a span of two months, but so woeful has been their team’s performance that Khalid Jamil’s side find themselves as favourites in Sunday’s big clash by default.
 
 To add to Chakraborty’s misery, his first-choice goalkeeper Shilton Paul is down with a stomach bug. If Paul doesn’t recover in time, Bagan will have to fall back on the inexperienced Shibinraj Kunniyil under the bar. Without Yuta and Sony, Bagan’s midfield has lacked enterprise and organization. It was clinically exposed by Minerva Punjab in their 2-1 victory last week. Australian Cameron Watson will have to orchestrate the midfield with aplomb if Bagan are to make forays into the rival box.
 
 It will be a tough ask against an East Bengal side which relies on midfield prowess to win games. The likes of Mahmoud Al Amna, Katsumi Yusa,   and Laldanmawia Ralte can be lethal if offered space and have all played important roles - by way of scoring and assisting - in boosting East Bengal’s goals tally (17) which is the highest in the competition so far.
 
 While Al Amna and Rafique are apt at holding the ball and building attacks with clever passing and distribution, Yusa and Ralte are livewires on the wings who are good at whipping in quality crosses as well taking potshots at goal after cutting in. They are surely going to give the Eze Kingsley-led Bagan defence, especially the side-backs, a tough time.
 
 An interesting sub-plot will be the clash of the two strikers - Dudu Omagbemi and Akram Moghrabi --who will play their first match of the season for East Bengal and Bagan respectively. Dudu hasn’t played competitive football in a while but his prior experience of having played in a Kolkata derby should come in handy. Jamil is likely to pair Dudu with Willis Plaza in a bid to add to East Bengal’s firepower up front.
 
 Bagan, having scored just six goals in their last six matches, will be hoping that Lebanese Akram - a proven goal-poacher for Churchill Brothers in his previous stint in India - will be able to exploit the chinks in East Bengal’s defence, notorious for conceding late goals. Akram’s presence could also inspire the misfiring Dipanda Dicka to rediscover his scoring boots.
 
