The news of the sudden demise of Swedish DJ   has left the music fraternity in a state of deep shock.

  
  
  Musicians including  , Madonna,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , among others took to their social media pages to express grief over the loss.
 
  Expressing shock over the news and remembering his dear friend, David Guetta tweeted, "Something really horrible happened. We lost a friend with such a beautiful heart and the world lost an incredibly talented musician. Thank you for your beautiful melodies, the time we shared in the studio, playing together as djs or just enjoying life as friends. RIP @Avicii".
 
  
  
 
  "Devastating news about Avicii, a beautiful soul, passionate and extremely talented with so much more to do. My heart goes out to his family. God bless you Tim x," wrote Scottish DJ Calvin Harris.
 
  
  
 
  A mourning Charlie Puth thanked the late singer for helping him grow as a musician.
 
  "Wow, I would like to take a moment to pay tribute to the man who really opened my eyes as to what my productions could one day sound like. @Avicii was a genius and a music innovator, and I can not believe he is no longer with us. RIP to the very best," the 'We Don't Talk Anymore' singer wrote.
 
  
  
 
  Meanwhile, a devastated Rita Ora remembered their collaboration 'Lonely Together'.
 
  "I have no words. I remember how amazing it was to make Lonely Together and it felt like just yesterday we were talking. Condolences to Avicii's family, friends, and the fans who supported him. May he rest in peace. Gone too soon. I'm devastated. Heartbroken," the British singer wrote.
 
  
  
 
  OneRepublic frontman Ryan Tedder thanked Avicii for inspiring his writing.
 
  "Rest In Peace @Avicii - u inspired some of my writing and I'm sure thousands of others, u will be missed," he wrote.
 
  
  
 
  'Stay' singer, Zedd, too offered his condolence.
 
  "No words can describe the sadness I'm feeling right now, hearing about Avicii passing away....Thoughts go out to his family and friends...," he wrote.
 
  
  
 
  American rock band Imagine Dragons who collaborated with the 28-year-old said that the world was a happier place with Avicii in it.
 
  "devastated at the news of @Avicii passing. working with him was one of my favorite collaborative moments. far too young. the world was a happier and fuller place with his presence and art. sending all my love to his friends and family. Xxdr," the official Imagine Dragons account posted.
 
  
  
 
 
 Madonna took to her Instagram to express her grief: So Sad....... So Tragic. Good Bye Dear Sweet Tim. 💙 Gone too Soon. #avicii
 
  
  
 
 
 Dutch DJ Martin Garrix posted: can't really describe in words how sad I feel right now.. thank you for inspiring me and millions others. RIP @avicii 😔❤️
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Norwegian DJ Kygo shared, "Can’t believe this is true..my biggest inspiration and the reason why I started making electronic music. Thank you for all the joy you brought to the world with your music. RIP @avicii"
 
  
  
 
 Steve Aoki posted, "I can’t believe the news. So hard to write this out. Such a heavy loss heavy heavy loss. I miss u dear friend."
 
  
  
 
 
 DJ Alan Walker wrote, "I’m left speechless right now. You’ve been an idol and inspiration to both myself and countless others, and your music and legacy will continue to live on. Thoughts and prayers to your family and loved ones. Rest in peace @avicii. And to everyone reading this, take care of each other."
 
  
  
 
 
 American DJ Diplo posted, "You set the precedent for the rest of us producers/ opened doors and set the trends . A real groundbreaker and influencer to all your peers . You should have lived to be 150.. but your music is gonna live forever . I'm not just saying that.. but you are the only one to always make timeless songs. You were the gold standard . You made me want try and make dance music when i first heard "seek bromance" . And then u kept making feel like shit cause you kept gettin better and i couldn't even mix a snare right .. you were the best of this generation . A real superstar 🌟 I know you had your demons and maybe this wasn't the right place for you sometimes , but we need to protect true artists like you at all costs because there are not enough left and we are losing too many .. be good Tim".
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Marshmello said, "I’m at a loss for words, you brought so much shine into our industry. rest easy brother 😪 @avicii"
 
  
  
 
 
  A statement from Avicii's publicist   earlier today read, "It is with profound sorrow that we announce the loss of  , also known as Avicii."
 
  "He was found dead in Muscat, Oman this Friday afternoon local time, April 20th. The family is devastated and we ask everyone to please respect their need for privacy in this difficult time. No further statements will be given," the statement added.
 
  The artist, known for songs such as 'Wake Me Up', 'Lonely Together', and 'Levels,' had retired from tours in 2016 due to health issues. 
 
 
