In the latest episodes of  ,   is ready to leave Ranajay’s place. She comes to meet  . She expresses her gratitude towards the family.

 Iman says that Shruti shouldn’t blame her for anything. Ranajay’s family members have asked her to leave. She shouldn’t make Iman look like a villain.
 
 Shruti says that her intentions weren’t bad but she had no idea that things would become so difficult for everyone. She also says that she won’t live long. Iman gets angry and says she shouldn’t think negative.   is trying hard to save her life. Iman also says that she wants her to live long for Michil.
 
 During their conversation, Shruti confesses that she has a soft corner for Ranajay. But Ranajay loves Iman. Shruti also says that she knows her limits and she would never cross the line.
 
 Iman, on the other hand, says that Ranajay loves Shruti. She also says that the moment Ranajay returns from Mumbai, he will bring Shruti back. Iman also shares that she will leave the household too.
 
 Finally, Shruti leaves Ranajay’s place.
 
 Iman informs everyone that she has got a job. She will move to Ujanpur. The entire family gets upset. Badshah requests her to reconsider her decision. But she seems determined.
 
 Ranajay gets furious the moment he returns from Mumbai and comes to know about Shruti’s incident. He criticises everyone. He blames Iman for the entire episode. Ranajay says that Shruti won’t live long. Under these circumstances they shouldn’t have forced her to leave. 
 
 Upset Iman says that he should bring her back soon.
 
 His family members suggest that Ranajay should help her financially. But he shouldn’t bring her back. His mother tries to convince him. But Ranajay declares that if Shruti doesn’t agree to come back, he would leave the home too.
 
 Ranajy goes out to bring Shruti back. Iman is packing her bags.   tries to stop her but she is not ready to listen. Mithu requests Iman to allow her to take care of the new born baby. But Iman says that she will take care of her baby
 
