PATNA: Chief minister  , who inaugurated and laid foundation stones for 301 development projects of the health department worth Rs 784 crore on Monday, said three major Patna-based health institutions –  ,   and IGIMS – would be upgraded with addition of new buildings, equipment, beds and other infrastructure to accommodate more patients.

 
 Addressing a gathering after inaugurating and laying foundation stones for the projects through remote control at Samvad auditorium here,   said the 1,700-bed PMCH would be upgraded into a 5,000-bed “world-class hospital” while number of beds would be increased to 2,500 from the existing 750 at NMCH and to 2,500 from the existing 500 at IGIMS.
 
 The CM, who was accompanied by his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi, health minister Mangal Pandey and minority welfare minister Khursheed alias Firoz Ahmad, also viewed a presentation on the PMCH’s upgradation plan. “The PMCH will be the first 5,000-bed hospital in the world. I am happy from the core of my heart to learn that the health department is going to begin work on upgrading PMCH into a  ,” he said. The CM asked the health officials to ensure that the project is completed in five to six years instead of the proposed deadline of eight years. 
 
 “The upgradation work will be carried out in three phases. Demolition of existing buildings and shifting of beds and medical facilities will be carried out in such a manner that there is no adverse impact on day-to-day functioning of the state’s premier hospital,” Nitish said.
 
 He added as per the upgradation plan, there would be multi-storeyed buildings to increase number of beds and introduce more medical facilities. “Separate multi-storeyed buildings will be constructed for residences of doctors and other medical staff on the same campus. There will be three multi-level vehicle parking lots having direct access from Ashok Rajpath and Ganga Path through separate flyovers,” he said.
 
 Earlier, principal secretary of health department Sanjay Kumar assured the CM that all necessary steps would be taken to provide healthcare facilities to people across the state.
 
 No written exam for doctors
 
 CM Nitish Kumar on Monday said henceforth, doctors would not have to appear for written examination in   for recruitment in the state government-run hospitals or departments. “The rules related to appointment of doctors have been simplified. A doctor possessing valid educational certificates will be appointed after verification of their documents,” the CM said. 
 
 
