NEW DELHI:   minister   has gone all out on social media to drive home the point that “the fight over the triple talaq bill is not between   and   but between the Muslim   and the all India Muslim Personal Law Board”. On micro blogging site Twitter, he hit out at the board accusing it of wanting to keep Muslim women oppressed. 

 The AILMPB hit back saying that Khan knows nothing about “ground realities” and that the bill is a “farce” that will adversely impact Muslim women. “Fight is not between BJP and Congress. Fight is between Muslim Women who rightfully demand dignity and equity and   who wants to keep them oppressed and suppressed through triple talaq. 
 
 Today Board praised Congress and other parties for stalling the Bill,” Khan tweeted. “Personal Law Board opposes any financial help to ex wife beyond 3 months Iddat, though she be in no position to keep her body and soul together. In 1986 this was the demand which was conceded by government. Now same people are asking who will pay wife if the man using TT goes to jail,” he posted on Twitter. 
 
 Before this on January 3, Khan had tweeted, “Those who reversed the Supreme Court judgement in   case used their full strength today to stall the bill that seeks to make triple talaq a punishable offence. One must marvel at this peerless record of denying justice to poor victims of TT to please Personal Law Board.” AIMPLB general secretary Maulana Mohammad Wali Rahmani said he had not seen Khan’s tweets but was willing to reiterate the board’s position on the bill. Asma Zehra, chief of the women’s wing in AIMPLB, lashed out at Khan. 
 
 “What does he know of ground realities? Muslim women are worried and protesting over the bill for it does not empower them. The provision on criminalisation of pronouncement of instant triple talaq will have a very adverse impact if it were to become a law,” she said. 
 
 “The Supreme Court has declared the utterance of instant talaq null and void. So once you declare such a divorce as illegal then the marriage is saved. After that by criminalising the utterance you send the husband to jail and force her to live the life of a divorcee woman. Also she will end up being deprived of financial support if the husband is in jail,” she said.
