IMPHAL: Joining in the nation-wide protests against the "failure" of the BJP-led   government at the Centre, the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee staged a protest at   here on Saturday, the fourth anniversary of the NDA government. 

 "The BJP government has completed four years. None of its promises has been fulfilled. Now, the people of the nation have seen through the false promises of the NDA government," opposition leader and former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh said here at a press conference on Saturday. 
 
 The veteran Congress leader added, "The Centre's policies have mainly affected minorities, women and small-scale industries ... BJP leaders promised to provide jobs to two crore education unemployed youths of the nation. Not even one lakh have benefited yet."
 
 Senior Congress legislator and former deputy chief minister Gaikhangam said, "The NDA government could have shown its achievements upon completion of four years, but what will it show? It is an anti-people, anti-development government, which should not stay in power for a second more."
 
 Dismissing Congress's charges, BJP said the country has made great progress under the leadership of Prime Minister  .
 
 Chief minister N Biren said, "Against all odds and amid criticism from the opposition, the NDA government has marched ahead."
 
 "Under the dynamic leadership of Modi, the country has moved forward in all developmental spheres. The NDA government has taken up hordes of welfare schemes for the poor and for farmers," president of the Manipur unit of BJP and   MP Kshetrimayum Bhabhananda said. He added, "Not a single corruption charge has been levelled against Modi."
 
 Listing what the NDA government has achieved, Bhabhananda said, "Black money has been abolished, yoga has gone global and internal security has been strengthened with no report of terrorist attacks within the nation." 
 
 Citing the "surgical strikes" as the government's achievement, he added, "The government has also been able to carry out surgical strikes against enemies beyond the border."
 
 
