KOCHI: In the wake of dengue outbreak reported from  , district administration has beefed preventive measures in the area. 

  After visiting plywood factories and scrap collection units in Perumbavoor on Tuesday, district collector   asked health, food safety, revenue, police and labour departments to take preventive measures.
 
 He said that garbage and bushes in Travancore Rayons, the premises of which had been the breeding ground of mosquitoes, should be cleared. Ten workers should be deployed for clearing the garbage in the area. Excavators also can be used if there is the need for it. The cleaning activities should be monitored by health department and Perumbavoor municipality. Kinfra will provide necessary support for it, said the collector.
 
 The collector also instructed health, food safety, revenue, police and labour departments to conduct special drives at eateries, juice stalls, factories and industrial units to prevent spread of communicable diseases. A squad will be constituted for the purpose. The high-level meeting also decided to install more surveillance cameras to identify those dumping waste at public spots. 
 
 District rural health officer P N   will head the squads, which would conduct cleaning and inspection at shops and other institutions.
 
 Meanwhile, Perumbavoor municipality authorities have decided to strengthen reduction at source. Besides, officials with the health department of the municipality will conduct house visits for raising awareness among the public against communicable diseases and importance of waste management. The collector has asked the municipal authorities to purchase fogging machines and conduct fogging whenever required. 
 
 The municipal authorities and the squads should send reports to the district collector daily. A meeting to review cleaning activities will be held at district collectorate on May 26.
 
 Considering the chances of Nipah virus infected patients being brought to Kochi from other districts, the district administration has given instructions to the authorities of private as well as government hospitals to take utmost care in handling such cases. A meeting convened by district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla in Kochi on Monday decided that doctors in government and private sector should jointly carryout preventive measures.
 
 The collector said that no cases of Nipah virus has been reported from the district. Doctors and staff of hospitals in the district should take proper preventive measures like wearing masks, gloves and gowns and proper hand wash while treating patients with suspected case of Nipah. Bystanders should also take such measures and their number should be limited to one to reduce chances of spreading the disease to more persons, he said.
 
 
