JAIPUR: Health expects of the city on Sunday voiced their concern over the fact that there are still children left who are not fully immunized. They claimed that   can reduce death rate up to 15 percent on the backdrop of World Immunization Week 2018 which was between April 24 and 30.

 
 
  
 
 According to health department officials, there are still 20 per cent of children who are not fully immunized yet. They have targeted to increase the immunization coverage from 80 percent to 90 percent till December this year.
 
 Dr  , a city-based pediatrician and president of The   (IAP), Rajasthan said, “Immunization is the only way through which we can prevent our children from different diseases. Thus, it becomes very vital to increase awareness amongst parents about immunization. Also, it is important to understand that it is safe. Immunization can reduce death rate up to 15 percent. Not providing vaccination to children possess financial burden to family and also have a long term impact on child’s overall growth.”
 
 However, health experts claimed that there is lack of awareness among parents on importance of vaccination in some pockets. Dr  , a city-based pediatrician, said, “Children suffer from so many diseases because parents don’t get them vaccinated on time. There are so many government policies which provide free vaccination at government hospitals. However, due to lack of awareness, vaccination has a limited coverage which is increasing healthcare burden. It’s the duty of all parents to get their kids vaccinated.”
 
 Besides, experts believe that wider immunization coverage against pneumonia and diarrhoea could prevent children from death. Pneumonia and diarrhea are the country’s leading killer infectious diseases that claim the most number of lives of children under the age of five. IAP experts said data from the International Vaccine Access Center’s (IVAC’s) 2017 Pneumonia and Diarrhea Progress Report, which states that India could prevent over 90,000 child deaths by scaling up coverage of immunization programs against pneumonia and diarrhoea.
 
 
