THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   on Monday called for change in   society's mindset, an attitudinal change that sees development and progress positively, a statement made in the best tradition of  's revisionism by a man generally perceived to be a doctrinaire Marxist strongman. 

  "The government gets substantial support and cooperation from government officials. But a section of them has some attitudinal problem towards development projects. I don't consider this their fault. Rather, they only reflect the general mindset of Kerala", the chief minister said, while interacting with the TOI editorial team here on Monday. He was the guest editor for the May 1 edition of TOI.
 
 Vijayan said Kerala should try to emulate other states where people, cutting across differences, come together for the common development of their state. "A culture of togetherness for the development cause should trickle in'', he said. 
 
 
 
 
 Pointing out that the   government was able to win the confidence of people in all walks of life by its work in the last two years, theCM revealedthathewould take forward the resistance it has initiated against the 15th finance commission's skewed terms of reference. ``Our stand is very clear. The state should not be penalised for the achievements it has made in the past. The decision to adopt 2011 census data would detrimentally affect the interests of the state. We say that allstatesshould getwhatthey deserve. We hope a collective effort by the affected states would bring in a positive result'', he said. According to Vijayan, his government has not yet analysed the political impact if 2011 census data is used for delimitation of parliamentary constituencies in the country and the purported advantage it would give to the hugely populated northern states.
 
 Kerala Police, the chief minister said, was doing a good job. ``Police investigation is effective. We have seen it in some recent cases too. But, the residue of the rotten system still lingers over the force. Some are still unable to dump their rude behaviour and continue to indulge in third degree measures…But things have changed a lot. Who would have charged a murder case against policemen in custodialdeathsin the past’’, he asked.
 
 The chief minister said the changes advocated by the Union government for releasing funds for development in higher education was a concern for the state. ``The new guidelines pose difficulties in claiming financial assistance. At the same time, we also need to change within. In higher education, paradigm focus should be on quality improvement’’, he said. According to the CM, government was responsible for the focus on development that caters to demands and needs of all sections of society. ``While strengthening of generaleducation demands great attention, there should also be schoolsthatcan satisfy the aspirations of those who seek highly cosmopolitan educational facilities in the private sector’’, he said.
 
