CHENNAI: Actor  , who has floated a political party -   - and has undertaken tour of districts, on Monday said he will not shy away from criticising fellow actor, Rajinikanth, who is also set to launch his own political party. However, 
  and principles of Rajini’s political party and not at the personal level, he said, while participating in a Q&A session at the end of a function organisd by a Tamil news channel.

 “Let him ( ) come, launch a party and also name it. I have made it clear that people’s welfare will be the main policy of my party. Let him also reveal his party’s policies and one has to see whether there is connect,” Kamal Haasan said, responding to a question on Rajinikanth’s political entry. 
 
 “Even if there are differences, I will 
  . That is our political dignity,” Haasan said, about his long time friend, fellow actor and an emerging politician like him. Before launching his party, Haasan had personnaly called on several political leaders and also actor Rajinikanth. “If something has to be criticised, it will be criticised strongly,” he added.
 
 Kamal said, his party, when it comes to power, will focus on providing jobs and good education to all. “We will also adopt the best practicises from the earlier governments in the state, while at the same time avoiding the bad practices,” he said. 
 
 He also said the focus will be on promoting rural economy as propagated by Mahatma Gandhi. “I have learnt a lot about Gandhiji. Not from his followers, but from his critics. I am proud to have studied about   and our party will follow the concept of rural nationalism,” said Kamal.
 
 The actor said he is not prejudiced against  , but his criticisms are only directed against the present government. “AIADMK is just another political party like ours. There is nothing to dislike it as a political party,” Hassan said. 
 
 “All those who work for the welfare of the people are my friends and those whose sole aim is to be in power and earn money are my foes. Such people do not need a name or a party,” he said, responding to another question about politics dividing people into friends and foes. 
 
 Explaining the ‘maiam’ in his party’s name as one that denotes ‘centrism’, he said it was not a thought that he had discovered, but something that has been happening around the globe. “French president   calls himself a centrist. There are political parties in Czechoslovakia and Brazil with centrist thoughts. In India too there could be a wave of centrism and we may well be floating on it,” said Hassan.
 
 
