It’s not every day that nearly two dozen Olympic medallists converge under one roof in India. In fact, if you take the medallists’ word for it, it has hardly ever happened. But it did happen recently, as the   hosted a gala dinner at a city hotel to honour the visiting International Olympic Committee President  , and in attendance were over half of the Indian Olympic medallists in history. From   legend Balbir Singh Sr, who was instrumental in India winning its first-ever gold as an independent nation, to shooter  , who won India’s first individual gold six decades later, the gathering was a mix of India’s greatest sporting talents. 

  
  Sheikh Ahmad Al Sabah, President, Olympic Council of Asia and Association of National Olympic Committees, and Thomas Bach,   President
 
 Col Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, who won silver at the 2004 Athens Games and is currently the Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Youth Affairs and  , said, “I’m so grateful to God that he allowed me to win an Olympic medal, which enabled me to be a part of this gathering today. I’m honoured to be in the company of so many greats of Indian sports.”
 
  
  PACKING A PUNCH:   (Bronze - 2008)
 
  For most of the athletes, it was a trip down memory lane meeting old friends and teammates.  , who won two bronze medals in hockey in 1968 and 1972, said, “It’s been so long since I had met my old teammates and the stalwarts of the game, and fortunately I did tonight. All the old jokes were retold and old friendships were renewed. Sab puraane din yaad aa gaye. Bahut achha laga.” 
 
  
  Hockey players Dharam Singh Mann (Gold - 1964, Bronze - 1968), and   (Bronze - 1972)
 
 Some of the younger champions were simply enamoured to have met the past legends. Vijender Singh, the 2008 bronze medallist in boxing, said, “I had only heard of these names or read about them in books. It was an honour meeting them in person.”
 
  
  Hockey players Vece Paes (Bronze- 1972), Harmik Singh (Bronze - 1968 and 1972), and Ashok Kumar (Bronze - 1972)
 
  IOC President Thomas Bach referred to Col Rathore and said, “I had a fruitful meeting earlier with the minister and I could see, feel and hear the determination that he has to develop sports along with the IOA. It is great to see a former sportsperson take interest in sports administration today.” Interestingly, Bach himself is an Olympic gold medallist, having been a part of the West German fencing team that won the medal at the 1976 Montreal Olympics.
 
  
  Three-time Olympic gold medallist, Hockey player Balbir Singh Sr (Gold - 1948, 1952 and 1956) 
 
 
  
  Shiva Keshavan, Asian champion in luge and the first Indian luger to qualify for the Winter Olympics
 
  
  Narinder Dhruv Batra, President, Indian Olympic Association
 
  
  Gayatri, Col Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore’s wife
  
  
 
