MANALI: In a major success against poachers, a 19-member patrolling team of Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP) seized a leopard skin, teeth and nails; crests of rare monal (lophophorus impejanus) and jujurana (western tragopan) birds; a licensed gun; 22 live cartridges; 13 mobile phones; several ATM cards; and precious herbs from a house in remote Shakti village located inside the park. The house owner has been arrested.

 GHNP director R S Patyal said they had got several reports of illegal extraction of medicinal plants and poaching inside the park. “We first sent a team on May 6. Then another team of 19 members, including me, went on a group patrolling on May 9.”
 
 “At Shakti village, we stopped six persons on suspicion. They were carrying tents, sleeping bags, ration and digging tools. Asked about their presence and belongings, they claimed that they were attending a function at a house, owned by a woman, in the village. When we brought the woman before them, they spilled the beans and named a person in whose house they were actually staying. Afterwards, we raided the house belonging to Sher Singh,” he added.
 
 The team was surprised to see the stock of animal parts, mobile phones and herbs. “We suspect he had used his licensed gun to kill animals and birds. Himachal has a practice to don cap decorated with colourful crest and feathers of monal and jujurana. We seized nearly a dozen such crests which were fitted in silver ornaments. We also seized nearly 200 feathers of monal,” Patyal added.
 
 Kullu SP Shalini Agnihotri said a FIR has been registered after receiving a complaint from park officials. “Sher Singh, 45, has been arrested under Sections 379 of IPC; 32, 33 of Indian Forest Act; 51 of Wildlife Protection Act 1972; and 25 of the Arms Act,” she said.
 
 GHNP is a world heritage site which is home to hundreds of species of flora and fauna, most of which are endangered and rare. The officials have installed camera traps and patrol the region to control poaching and illegal extraction of medicinal plants.
 
 Shakti and Maror are two remote villages inside the park which are accessible after about 20km on foot climb. Villages have no electricity and no telecommunication facility. A few years back, many villagers had surrendered their guns to GHNP officials and had promised to protect wildlife.
 
 
