KOLKATA: The   case shook the city in 2015 and ever since, a number of instances came to the fore where people were found living with the body of their dear ones ever after the latter’s death. While there is a whiff of monetary motive in Subhabrata Majumdar’s case, psychologists have found other reasons for wanting to live with corpses. Apart from severe mental ailment, some might have done so to find new ways of closure.

 Before Majumdar’s tryst with corpse was discovered, Kolkata has witnessed at least six such bizarre incidents in three years. Psychiatrist Dr   attributes mental ailment as a primary cause for such behaviour. “It could be an abnormal grief reaction. Schizophrenia, delusional disorder and severe depression could lead to such behaviour,” Ram said.
 
 While inability to deal with bereavement is not new, why is it that the number of such cases are sharply increasing? Ram doesn’t rule out what he calls the “contagion effect”. According to psychology, it is a spread of a behaviour pattern, attitude, or emotion from person to person or group to group through suggestion, propaganda, rumour or imitation. “With abnormal sensationalism of such cases in media, those who are on the verge of indulging in such activities get severely impacted,” he pointed out.
 
 However, the religio-cultural aspect of dealing with death also needs to be looked into. According to psychiatrist Dr  , not everyone wants to follow the prescribed norms of lending closure after bereavement. “Muslims and Christians bury the dead. After a burial, a person can still go to the cemetery and feel the presence of the departed. But in case of Hindus, the body is incarcerated beyond recognition. Many might not be comfortable with this idea. Internally, they might believe that a permanent sense of closure is not their cup of tea,” Mitra pointed out.
 
 That perhaps might explain why some, in recent times, have tried to find other ways of preserving the bodies of their loved ones and started living with them. Incidentally, this practice of living with the dead is followed in the Indonesian island of Sulawesi. There, the Torajans believe that people aren’t really dead when they die. They insist that a profound human connection lasts well after that. There are instances of people bringing their relatives out of their tombs to give them fresh clothing. Some keep corpses at home and offer food and even drinks as well. “Many of those who live with corpses in Kolkata are well-educated and well-travelled. They might have assimilated different cultural aspects during these travels. With more exposure to Internet, they might be aware of these practices. For some at least, trying out these new methods could be their way of adopting new ways of closure,” Mitra added.
 
