BENGALURU: Nearly nine years after BBMP constructed the magic box near   underpass -- which far from solving traffic chaos issues, only threw up new problems for motorists -- Malleswaram residents want a flyover to escape the bottleneck at the spot.

 In 2008, BBMP constructed the underpass to ease traffic at the vital intersection on Ballari Road, and create a signal-free corridor for motorists heading to  . The construction itself was a huge embarrassment, as what was touted to be a threeday affair involving precast sections, dragged on for over three months.
 
 The magic box turned out to be anything but magic. It requires airport-bound motorists to take a virtual Uturn, even as those coming into the city run into a bottleneck, sharing road space with vehicles coming from   side.
 
 “This magic box, also known as Cauvery Junction underpass, is only adding to traffic congestion. We want a small flyover that will enable smooth movement for motorists coming from   and entering Ballari Road. This will also decongest Ballari Road to a large extent,” Dr  , a resident of Malleswaram, said.
 
 “It’s an everyday hassle for commuters moving towards Windsor Manor. This underpass is a waste of taxpayers’ money,” said Bharath.
 
 Admitting to traffic chaos at the junction, BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad said they are planning a grade separator in front of Cauvery Junction. “The cabinet has already approved of a proposal for a flyover from Sadashivanagar to Cauvery Junction. We are also considering other options, including a grade separator from MSRIT near Mathikere to Yeshwantpur, and also to extend Yeshwantpur flyover,” he said, expressing confidence that congestion will be a thing of the past, once the new proposals take effect.
 
 Responding to a query on congestion near Mantri Mall, Prasad said there is a proposal to build a four-lane road behind the mall. “We gave approval to Mantri Mall on the condition that they develop a four-lane road behind the mall to divert traffic coming from City Railway Station. But it was delayed due to land issues. The Railways recently claimed one portion of the land. We are also in talks with the Railways to resolve land issues.”
 
