The musical trio of   (S.E.L.) has joined hands with legendary lyricist-writer   for   and Dharma Productions’ ‘Raazi’, and the film’s album, not surprisingly, is an absolute treasure trove. The four artists come together for an interview, and the result is a conversation full of rare nuggets and light-hearted moments. Read on for some insight into their process of making music.

 
 
 
 I believe that you should make one song that is equivalent to ten.
 
  It is the script that demands songs. ‘Raazi’ is not the kind of film that can be packed with songs. Both versions of ‘Ae Watan’ are crucial to the story. While ‘Dilbaro’ is a bidaai track, the title song takes the story forward. Meghna (Gulzar, the director) is true to her film and its script, and will not include a song unless it is absolutely necessary. We could have created a six-song album out of which two would not have been used in the movie, but that would have been a waste.
 
 Also, the concept of an album with at least eight songs has become old-school now. Today, if a movie requires just two songs, the album will have just that much.
  
  
 
 
  I believe that it is extremely difficult to make simple songs. All the songs in ‘Raazi’ are straight from the heart, and we are proud of them. After listening to the reactions to the first song, ‘Ae Watan’, we realised that the track has evoked patriotism and a feeling of pride in the listeners. It’s after long that a patriotic song has managed to do that.
 
 I would like ‘Ae Watan’ to become the song of our nation. It speaks for all of us and it speaks without any prejudice. People keep asking what nationalism is all about. Well, one can define nationalism through this song.
 
  It’s been a fantastic experience working on this project. ‘Raazi’s’ music has the flavour of Jammu and Kashmir, as the story is partially set there, and Alia Bhatt’s character, too, belongs to the state. The songs propel the narrative and make it much more convincing. We have been authentic and it has worked out well.
 
 We are very happy with the music of ‘Raazi’ and Gulzar saab’s lyrics. It’s an album that you will not forget easily.
 
 
 
 It is very tough to flow against the tide, but we are like salmons. While everyone is going with the tide, the four of us are going the other way. At a time when EDM is so popular, we dared to create a song like ‘Ae Watan’, which has no electronic elements at all. We created it while sitting in Gulzar saab’s living room. Paanch minute mein yeh tune ban gayi thi.
 
  They took the lines, started singing, and just like that, we got our tune. Only the ‘Lab Pe Aati Hai’ portion was added later. Since the lead character in the film moves to Pakistan, I thought it was best to use poet laureate Muhammad Iqbal’s words. Unke likhe hue prayers humne school mein gaayein hain. ‘Sare Jahan Se Achha, Hindustan Hamara’ was written by him too. Shankar incorporated the ‘Lab Pe Aati Hai’ part so seamlessly into the song that people from both sides of the border can sing it. That is the beauty of it – there is no prejudice of the border in this song. The film might be based on a historical incident, but it does not promote any kind of prejudice or bias.
 
 Every day, people upload at least two-three cover versions of ‘Ae Watan’ on social media. The song has achieved a different level of popularity altogether. I haven’t seen reactions like this before.
 
  
  
 
 
  Yeh log mujhe hairat mein dalte rehte hain. The Kashmiri track, ‘Dilbaro’, sounds so authentic; it feels like yeh wahan ka traditional folk song hai, jo inhone le liya hai. But the truth is, they’ve composed the entire song. It’s been so well thought out that the song now belongs to the Valley. That’s what creativity is.
 
 The lyrics of ‘Dilbaro – Ungli Pakad Ke Tune Chalna Sikhaya Tha Na, Dehleez Unchi Hai Yeh Paar Kara De’ – can apply to any song based on bidaai. However, in  , you are talking about a daughter whose father is sending her as an Indian spy to Pakistan. She gets married and crosses the border, not just as a bride, but also as a spy. She tells her father, ‘This dehleez is too high for me, please help me cross’. What a way to interpret two distinct thoughts in the same vein!
 
 It talks about the theme of the film and yet keeps it relevant to the bidaai setting.
 
 Gulzar saab, how did you think of the lyrics?
 
 Kursi pe baith ke (laughs)!
 
 
 
 
  ‘Ae Watan’ started with lyrics. He had written it, and we just picked it up and started singing it. The song dictated the melody, it was an organic process. All songs of ‘Raazi’ have been made like that.
 
 Saare gaane waise hi banaye gaye. Wajah yeh thi ki maine ek line banayi aur mere ek line pe inhone mukhda bana liya. Yeh aage gaate ja rahe thay aur antara banta jaa raha tha. And main unko follow kar raha tha. Then I started writing. After that, it was just about ek word idhar dalna aur ek word udhar dalna.
 
