LUCKNOW: The   report on the sellout of 21 sugar mills under the BSP rule in 2010 kept gathering dust in the archives of state assembly for nearly five years since it was tabled. The   government didn't act on it for four years and even the BJP government didn't give its view on it after coming to power in March 2017. Now, suddenly it has ordered a   probe 

 Having audited the sale of sugar mills and detecting a loss of over Rs 2,000 crore in 2011-12, the CAG had submitted its report to the state assembly in 2013 which handed it over to the public undertaking committee (PUC) for giving its view for action on the report. The PUC is the committee of the state assembly comprising senior members of the house which deliberates on the CAG reports on the functioning of the public sector undertaking. After seeking the government's views on the reports, it recommends action .
 
 The CAG report indicting the core group of secretaries for disinvestment (CSD) for overlooking glaring irregularities in the sale of 21 sugar mills, had been submitted before the state legislative assembly in 2013, but hardly anything has moved in the past five years. Governor Ram Naik had been prodding the state governments from time to time to act upon the reports of various agencies on corruption cases also, but to no avail.
 
 During SP rule between 2012 and 2017, the PUC was first headed by the party's senior MLA Uday Raj and then by Shakir Ali. In present government, BJP's Ram Chandra Yadav is the chairman. Whether it was the Akhilesh Yadav government or of the Yogi Adityanath , the PUC failed to draw any conclusion on the CAG report which has nailed a dozen top bureaucrats for not applying their due diligence, causing nearly Rs 2000-crore loss to the state coffers.
 
 Both SP and BJP had promised stern action on irregularities in sugar mills deal, but in practice, they hardly moved an inch by stating that since the matter was pending before the Supreme Court - which was hearing a PIL on the issue- the PUC was waiting the verdict of the apex court.
 
 "It indicates that either successive governments were passing the buck or bidders which bought the sugar mills were so powerful that first they go the mills for much below the price and then succeeded in stalling action on CAG report for five years," says a retired bureaucrat, pleading anonymity. "Now, for whatever reason, if BJP government has recommended the CBI probe into the scam, one hopes those responsible for causing a huge financial loss to the state would be brought to book," he adds.
 
 
