BHOPAL: S S Bhatia, an industrialist from Indore and a close friend of Boney Kapoor and Sridevi, has yet to come to grips with the death of one of the most popular heroine of her time. 

 “At 3.00 am, I received a call from Mumbai informing about Sridevi’s death. I couldn’t believe it. I have known her since 1990s and had never heard she was ill. In fact, she was super fit. I knew she had gone to Dubai for a marriage ceremony. At 3.00 am, somebody wakes me up to tell on phone she is no more. I don’t believe you, I said and switched off the phone. In morning, when I looked at the call list, there were at least 10-15 calls from Mumbai, I realised what I was told in the night was true,” said Bhatia while talking to TOI from Mumbai, where he, too, is waiting with others for her body to arrive.
 
 
 
 
 He said the plane carrying Sridevi’s body would leave Dubai at 9.00 pm by IST and is likely to land in Mumbai around 2.00-3.00 am. Her body would be kept for people to pay last tributes to her from 7.00 am to 11.00 am at some place and last rites are likely to be performed around 3.00 pm, he said, adding, “It’s tentative and timings could change.”
 
 Bhatia said he met Boney Kapoor through a common friend Tutu Sharma, Padmini Kolhapure’s husband and a film producer, and soon he was like an elder brother. “I would confide in him any problem. I would ask for any help I needed and Boney always responded like an elder brother.” It was in 1996 Sridevi came to his house in Indore to attend a family function and thereafter, she visted his house many times. “She was quite a reserved person and would only mix with people with whom she had the right chemistry. Fortunately, I was one of them. She would talk to me about artefacts she liked at my home or some other features in the bungalow. She had taken tips from me when she renovated her Chennai house,” he said.
 
 When asked places she visited in Indore or otherwise during her MP visit, Bhatia said, “She would mostly remain in my house. She was a good painter, too. But, once she had gone with us to Ujjain, had a darshan of Mahakal and also attended a function there.”
 
 “Though reserve by nature, Sridevi was a good host. Whenever I visited Boney’s house in Mumbai or went out for dinner or lunch in a hotel, she would be a perfect host and take care of every minute detail. “Aap ne yeh nahin khaya, aap who khayien apko achha lagega,” she would request with all sincerity, Bhatia fondly recalled.
 
 Highly impressed with Sridevi’s dressing sense, Bhatia said, “she knew what to wear and when. She had an impeccable dressing sense, her style and, the elegance with which she carried herself, would make you her fan,” Bhatia said. “I had met her in a marriage in Delhi on February 2 and now she is no more.”
 
 Bhatia said Sridevi’s untimely demise was greatest loss for her two daughters, whom she had raised largely single-handedly. “After 2005, she was mainly concentrating on her two daughters. She had restricted her movements. The elder one has become a film heroine, but both needed her guidance and company at this tender age,” Bhatia said.
 
 
  
 
