BENGALURU: In India’s technology space, the biggest increases in hiring and the highest salary increments are now happening in the engineering and R&D arms of MNCs.

 Hiring in the segment increased by over 29% in 2017, the highest increase in recent years, and near-two-percentage points more than in 2016, as per consulting firm Zinnov’s latest annual study of HR trends in what is referred to as the global in-house centre (GIC) space. The study is based on a survey of 43 GICs across India. There are 950 MNCs with over 1,200 R&D and engineering centres in India.
 
 
 
  
 
 The study does not say how many employees are in the sector, but a study for 2016 had estimated the strength to be 815,000. Some estimate the current strength to be close to a million.
 
 The GIC hiring growth is significantly more than that in the Indian IT sector, where headcount growth is now estimated to be lower than the revenue growth, which is about 8%. The gross hiring in top IT services companies is growing between 5% and 10% annually, while net hiring (which excludes those who quit) is barely growing.
 
 GIC salary increments in 2017, though slightly lower than in 2016, were more than twice that in major Indian IT firms. While the average increase was 5% in   and  , the average for the surveyed GICs was 11.2%. It was as high as 14% for juniors and 12.6% for mid-level employees. For senior executives, it was 10.5% and for top executives, it was a shade over 9%.
 
 However, these increments were slightly lower than in 2016. Anand  , engagement manager & delivery head in  , said this may be partly because the startup bubble of 2016 had forced everybody to offer big increments that year.
 
 
 
  
 
 The slew of new digital technologies — cloud, analytics, machine learning, artificial intelligence, internet-of-things, and robotics — are forcing global corporations to enhance their engineering strengths and build new solutions, partly to take on the challenge from new-age ventures who are not burdened by legacy technologies. The only location where they can find engineers on the scale required, and with requisite skills, is India. Numerous global retailers, for instance, have in recent years established centres in India to develop new tech that can help them fight Amazon.
 
 Since the primary objective now is building new solutions, it’s the R&D side of these centres that is growing the fastest, compared to the traditional IT and BPM (business process management) segments. It’s the latter that many of the older GICs started with.
 
 Anand Subramaniam, engagement manager & delivery head in Zinnov, noted that hiring for R&D grew sharply by 30.6% in 2017, compared to 25.3% the year before. On the contrary, hiring for non-R&D (IT and BPM) grew by 26.4% in 2017, down from 28.6% in 2016. “Increased automation, higher process standardization, more focus on resource sharing, as well as increased outsourcing of non-valueadd work have contributed to the declining growth,” he said. R&D functions also received higher salary increments (average 11.7%), compared to non-R&D functions(10.3%).
 
 Subramaniam said three segments of staff — top performers, those who are promoted, and those with niche skills — receive particularly high increments. Top performers received an average increase of 15.1%, and promotional cases received an increase of 16.8% — both higher than in 2016. Niche skills —robotics, UI/UX (user interface, user experience), mobile, machine learning, analytics, and big data — received increases between 14% (for big data) and 18% (for robotics).The gaming GICs gave the highest increments. “The primary reason for this is the presence of a large number of niche talent with skills such as UI/UX, game design, and game artist,” Subramaniam said.
 
 
 
