NEW DELHI:   gathered outside   on Saturday, demanding the suspension of the officers who had manhandled journalists covering a protest by Jawaharlal Nehru University students in south Delhi on Friday. Senior police officers later met the agitated journalists and said that they were “deeply apologetic” about the incident. They also announced the formation of a team led by a deputy commissioner to probe the matter. 

 For more than two hours on Saturday afternoon, over 100 journalists sat at the gates of Police HQ at ITO demanding an apology from the   brass and dispersed only after the force’s chief spokesperson, special commissioner  , assured them of stern action against the offending personnel. 
 
 During the protest, photographers from different organisations placed their cameras on the footpath outside the building to record their dismay at the cops seizing a camera from a woman photographer on Friday. “The photographer has not got back her camera. The cops say they don’t know who has it,” said a protester from the same organisation as the aggrieved woman. “She has to answer to her organisation on how the camera got lost, and this is undue harassment.”
 
 Later, Delhi Police apologised and claimed that the women constables had mistaken the journalists for protesters and manhandled them in the process. “Delhi Police and I have personally maintained that the media is an integral part of our democracy,” said Madhur Verma, DCP, PRO. “We have always provided access to information and tried to ensure the media personnel covering the police didn’t face any problems while doing their job.” A team would investigate the matter and submit a report in a couple of days, the cops assured the demonstrators.
 
 Though the journalists staging the protest agreed to call it off later in the evening, some of them said that they would register a complaint with the Union home minister and request him to act against the SHO who had manhandled the woman reporter. “The protest today was peaceful, but we must get the assurance that more journalists will not be attacked like this,” said a reporter from an English news channel.
 
 
