JAISALMER: The trial of advanced version of ultralight   155 M 777-A2 started again at   field firing range in Jaisalmer district on Monday evening. On September 2 last year, the trial was stopped as the muzzle in the barrel of the gun got broken during the trial.

 On Monday, Army officers, US delegates, representatives of American gun company   and other experts were present under whose supervision, the trail started. This time, the trial of indirect firing is being done at a distance of 40-45 km and these guns are being tested in high temperatures of Jaisalmer. The trial is expected to continue for around 10 weeks.
 
 
 According to information from sources, Army is testing this gun to increase its firing capacity. This time, the two guns of advanced version of 155 M 777-A2 have been brought for testing.
 
 This year, the gun is being tested for long distance (40-45 km) firing. Last year, the trial was done for direct firing over small distance of 3-4 km. The trial is being held in 45-47 degrees Celsius temperature.
 
 Army, to modernize its firing capacity, had signed an MoU with the US for M777 ultra-light howitzer guns and in the initial stage, two guns were brought to India on May 18 last year and on June 8, the trial was started.
 
 Source said four fires can be done in a minute and it totally destroyed the radius of 50 metre area and did heavy damage to the area of 200 metre radius. This gun is very light as compared to a Bofors gun which weighs 11 tonnes. This US gun, weighing 4.4 tonnes, can be brought to action in three minutes and packed up in two minutes. It can be transported to mountains and hills through a helicopter. Ammunition used in this gun is indigenous.
 
 According to sources, the deal of $737 million has been signed and under this deal, from March 2019, every month, five guns will be received and a total of 145 guns will be delivered by June 2021.
 
 A total of 25 guns will be imported from the US and remaining 120 guns will be assembled in India by Mahindra under 
 
