JAIPUR: One who smokes might not be aware that tobacco is the single most preventable cause of cancer.   experts say that if tobacco is eliminated, 30-40% cases of   can be prevented.

 
 “Lung cancer is the most common cancer in the country. Eighty percent of lung cancer is caused by tobacco,” said Dr Hemant Malhotra, president, Indian Society of Medical & Pediatric Oncology ( ) and senior professor, department of medicine & head, Division of Medical Oncology.
 
  
  
 
 He pointed out that if a
 
 jumbo jet gets crashed, it makes news but people equal to passengers of two jumbo jets are dying daily due to tobacco in the world, and it is going unnoticed.
 
 “Two risk factors of cancer are environment and genes. In some people, there are genes which are quite powerful and protective. They are also called cancer suppresser genes. In such people, the risk of cancer due to tobacco is quite low. But those persons whose genes are not so powerful are at a higher risk of getting cancer. You can’t change your genes but you can create cancer preventing environment by eliminating tobacco,” said Dr Malhotra.
 
 A study was conducted by Division of Surgical Oncology, SMS Medical College Hospital, Jaipur and Rajasthan Cancer Society, India, in which a total of 34,486 new cases of cancers were recorded in five years. The study shows that highest numbers of cancers were related to lungs
 
 (13.25%) followed by larynx
 
 (5.35%), oropharynx (5.09%), brain (4.84%), tongue (4.62%) and prostate (4%) in males, whereas breast (25.6%), cervix
 
 (10.26%), ovary (5.4%), brain
 
 (3.68%), esophagus (3.4%), lung (3.01%) and gall bladder
 
 (2.35%) were common sites for malignancies in females. The study concluded that a higher frequency of tobacco-related cancers such as lung cancer and head and neck cancer were found in males.
 
 Medical oncologist at a private cancer hospital Dr Lalit Mohan Sharma said, “Tobacco in any form contains various harmful chemicals which affect human DNA and lead to various cancers. Most people start consuming tobacco at the early age of 11-16 years, hence it becomes more important to make our society aware about its ill effects that might put one’s life in risk.”
 
 As tobacco is a leading cause of cancer, health experts demanded stricter enforcement of rules to prevent its use in public places and to discourage its use by individuals. “Tobacco control will improve if penalties under Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) are revised (from Rs 200 for the Sections 4 and 6 to at least 10 times), taxation on all retail tobacco products matches international norms (GST has failed to curb the use of chewable tobacco and bidis - used by the majority vs cigarettes), enforcement drives of COTPA are held round the year, especially for sections 5 and 7 on surrogate advertisements on point-ofsale and pictorial warnings on tobacco products (still sold without these on smuggled goods), tobacco retail sale should be licensed as recommended by the Union ministry of health, along with a ban on sale of single cigarettes; and, sale of e-cigarettes should be prohibited in a foolproof manner including its online sale,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, consultant, tobacco cessation, at a private hospital and former surgical oncologist.
 
