MUMBAI:   has directed the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government to not start work on any new   project till the   is able to collect adequate additional resources for their completion.

 A senior bureaucrat said a special responsibility has been entrusted on the   under Article 371(2) of the Constitution of India to ensure equitable allocation of   for developmental expenditure in areas of statutory development boards for Vidarbha, Marathwada and the rest of Maharashtra.
 
 
  
 
 Considering that Rs 84,117 crore will be required for completion of 359 ongoing irrigation projects, unless these are completed in a time-bound manner, it will be futile to undertake new ones. For 149   in Vidarbha, the government will require Rs 33,656 crore, for 61 projects in Marathwada, it will require Rs 14,832 crore and for 149 projects in the rest of state, it will require Rs 35,628 crore. “All these 359 projects are in different stages of completion. Under the Constitution, the governor can issue directives to the state government on utilization of funds. Accordingly, the governor has directed the state government to not undertake any new projects unless these ongoing ones are completed,” he said.
 
 Further, it was found that several projects in the Vidarbha region could not be completed on schedule owing to acute shortage of manpower, as a large number of posts are lying vacant for a prolonged period. Then, the governor had directed the state government to fill up all vacant posts in districts with project backlog via transfers from other regions, fresh recruitments and promotions. 
 
 According to an official report submitted by the water resources department, 28 of a total of 156 posts of Group A officers and 134 of 510 posts of Group B officers are lying vacant in the Amravati division. “The governor has noted with concern that slow absorption of funds in the backlog districts is due to large vacancies, among other reasons. The governor has directed that all the vacancies be filled within four months,” he said.
 
 
