CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Wednesday issued a notice to former registrar (recruitment) and an accused in Haryana judicial services paper leak accused, Balwinder Sharma, on Chandigarh police’s plea against the trial court’s directions to furnish phone numbers of SIT members in a sealed cover. The HC has also ordered to keep all status reports submitted by a special investigation team (SIT) of the Chandigarh police in a sealed cover.

 A full bench comprising Justices Rajesh Bindal, Rajan Gupta and G S Sandhawalia has passed these orders while hearing the case related to Haryana judicial services paper leak. During the hearing of the case, counsel for Chandigarh police had sought directions to set aside April 10, passed by trial court, for directing SIT to furnish the call details of phone numbers (private as well as official) of SIT members in a sealed cover so that a request could be made to the service providers concerned to preserve the record.
 
 The counsel argued that the accused is trying to make the investigation agency an accused. On this, the bench issued notice to Sharma, asking him to file his response. The notice will be served to him through superintendent of Burail jail, where he is presently confined.
 
 The counsel for UT police further demanded to keep all status reports of investigations in a sealed cover so that the accused might not get it. “All reports may be directed to be kept in a sealed cover,” pleaded the SIT counsel. On this, the bench ordered to keep all reports in a sealed cover. The bench was also informed about the arrest of two accused Sunil and Ayushi Chopra with regard to the case. The matter would now come up for hearing on May 28. 
 
 The entire scam was unearthed after Suman, a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula district, had filed a petition before the HC, seeking registration of a criminal case in the paper leak. An internal probe conducted by the HC had found Sharma responsible for leaking the paper to one of the candidates Sunita. Later, the case was registered and SIT was constituted to probe the matter. 
 
 
