CHANDIGARH: With 2,232 runs under his belt in 2017-18,   holds the record for most runs in an  . The Karnataka opener shattered many batting records in domestic cricket but still didn’t get a call-up to the national team. That disappointment aside, the 27-year-old is now hoping a successful   will get him that elusive India spot.

 
  — Mayank’s IPL team — would wish that his domestic form continues. The man himself doesn’t want to be stated as a one-season wonder.
 
 “For me as a player, one of the targets would be to succeed in this year’s IPL,” Mayank told TOI on Friday. “I don’t want to be called a one-season wonder. You want to get better with every season. I don’t want anyone to point fingers at me and say that he didn’t perform after one season.”
 
 Kings XI have a number of openers this time and Chris Gayle, Aaron Finch, KL Rahul, Karun Nair and Mayank will all be vying for the two spots up the batting order.
 
 Mayank, though, is ready to bat in the middle-order too. “My aim is to add value to the side, and it doesn’t only have to be as an opener. If playing in the middle-order helps the team, so be it. Cricket is not an individual sport, it is a team sport. The team management decides what the role of a player should be; and, at the end of the day, as a player you have to go out there and perform,” said the prolific right-hander.
 
 Mayank is also looking to pick the brains of Kings XI’s team director Virender Sehwag. Both Sehwag and Mayank have an aggressive batting style and inputs from the dashing former India opener will help the Karnataka lad go a long way.
 
 “He (Sehwag) is my favourite cricketer. As a kid, I was always fascinated by the way he took the attack to the opposition and the way he dominated. What I would like to learn from him (Sehwag) is his mindset while tacking various situations,” said Mayank. “The way he used to approach high-profile games, the way he handled spinners, and various pressure situations – all that I would like to learn. Besides him, I would also like to learn as much as possible from other stalwarts like Gayle, Finch and Ashwin.”
 
 Mayank also hoped that Ravichandran Ashwin’s captaincy would bring the best out in him. “I am looking forward to playing under Ashwin’s captaincy, and evolve under his leadership. At the end of the day, performance will be the key and I am hoping I can put in a good show.”
 
 
