NEW DELHI: The   has made luxury vehicles costlier with higher import duties, but deals at pre-Budget prices are available for existing stocks at dealerships. Increased prices are expected to be announced over the next few weeks, after companies clear inventories and fresh imports arrive or get assembled.

 Car companies such as   and   have been approaching prospective customers with ‘pre-Budget deals’, a measure they feel will help enthuse buyers, who are rattled by news of prices going up. Silver Arrows, one of the top dealers for Mercedes-Benz in Delhi-NCR, has already sent messages to prospective buyers: “Hurry and buy your favourite car at pre-Budget prices, till stocks last. Prices will likely increase by 5%.”
 
 A senior functionary with Mercedes said, “This is the right time to buy, as prices are yet to change. We are also doing aggressive follow-ups with customers.” Mikey Todd, one of the top dealers for Audi in the country, said pre-Budget deals can be expected over the next month or so. “It depends on model-to-model, but this is the kind of inventory that we hold.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Todd said Audi may increase prices by 3-4% once the fresh stock starts flowing in. “People are still absorbing the fact that prices are going up. In any case, there have been quite a few instances of unexpected rush this fiscal, especially due to duty and price changes at the time of GST rollout. That rush is missing.”
 
 Luxury companies have said prices may go up by Rs 1-10 lakh on account of new duty rates that the Budget has mandated. They said running cost of vehicles will be higher as the government has also increased the customs duty on imported parts.
 
 Finance minister   increased the duty on cars that are assembled in the country (through the completely-knocked down kits) from 10% to 15%. Also, Jaitley slapped a social welfare surcharge on imported products, adding an additional 10% on existing customs duties.
 
 Jaitley said the measures were being taken to increase local manufacturing, though most of the companies that were impacted by the move disagreed. They said demand will be hit, limiting their capacity to hire more and put in new investments.
 
 
