CHANDIGARH: Kids surrounded with soft toys, colorful benches, graphical and pictorial books was a common site at the crèche inaugurated at Punjab and Haryana high   in the presence of high court Chief Justice Shiavax Jal Vazifdar, Justice Surya Kant and other judges on Monday. The crèche would be open for the Bar members and would be extended to the litigants if required. Justice Vazifdar also inaugurated the child counselling-cum-mediation room here. The crèche has 40 children already. 

 Justice Vazifdar said, “The whole effort behind this crèche is to keep children away from court proceedings that may have adverse impact on their upbringing. The advocates will no longer have to go and check on their children now and again.” Elaborating further, Justice Surya Kant said, “The area of the crèche will also be extended in coming times.”
 
 There are several cases where advocate couples are attending court sessions from morning to evening. Under such circumstances, it becomes difficult for the couple to look for reliable acquiescences with whom they can leave their child in their absence. 
 
 The crèche has been made in conformity with the ‘The Maternity Benefit Act, 1961’ which provides that every establishment having 50 or more employees shall have the facility. The foundation stone of the same was laid on January 24, 2018 and thereafter came under the supervision and directions of the building committee of the high court headed by chairman Justice Surya Kant. This crèche is operated by Bal Bhawan of Chandigarh administration and granted by social welfare department.
 
 The admission to the crèche will be on first-come-first-serve basis. Raj Preet, Child Welfare officer said, “The parents would be allowed to see their kids anytime unlike other private crèches.”
 
 The child counselling-cum-mediation room will also be used as children’s waiting rooms and day care centre. These are specially designed waiting rooms just for children with access to colouring books, toys, computer games, stuffed toys, blackboard and much more. Interestingly, the Burail Jail will be providing food here as per a decided menu.
 
 
