PATNA: At least five persons died while more than 14 others were injured after a jeep, carrying people who were returning after performing a last rite, turned turtle near village Lalpura under Bhadaur police station in Patna on Friday night.

 The deceased were identified as   (55), Surendra Mistry (35),   (35), Chotelal Mistry (50), and Sandeep Kumar (25). The injured persons who were initially treated at Barh sub-divisional hospital, were later shifted to   and Hospital (PMCH) for better treatment. Out of the five deceased, three had died at the spot while rest two died during treatment at the sadar hospital.
 
 Bhadaur police station SHO   said that the accident took place at around 8pm at a spot where the road had sharp turn almost at a right angle.
 
 “At least 21 people were travelling in the jeep when the accident took place. They all were returning to Diha village in Sheikhpura district after cremating a body at Umanath ghat in Barh sub-division in Patna when the accident took place,” he said.
 
 The SHO said that the identity of the driver has been established when raids were onto nab him.
 
 “It seems that the driver was over speeding and might have lost control near the sharp bend due to which the jeep flew off the road and after multiple rolls, came to halt resulting the casualties. Only after the driver’s arrest, it would become clear that if he has lost control or slept on the wheels,” the SHO said adding that nothing concrete had surfaced yet to support if the driver was drunk.
 
 The SHO said that the statement of all the injured persons yet to be recorded. Jawahar, Surendra and Janardan were natives of Diha under   police station in Sheikhpura district while Chotelal was resident of Jhota village under Kashichak police station in Nawada district. Sandeep was resident of town area of Lakhisarai district.
 
 Kumar said bodies were handed over to family after autopsy and ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh would be disbursed after receiving autopsy report on Monday.
 
 On February 19 only, nine persons had died and several others were grievously injured after a bus turned turtle under Gaurichak police station area in Patna.
 
