It is not often that someone reaps success as a mimicry artiste, comedian, TV show host and film actor. But   has managed it all, and has now ventured into something else altogether, filmmaking. His debut film Panchavarnathatha, starring Jayaram and  , is ready for release. In his characteristic humorous style, Ramesh Pisharody talks to us about his directorial, what comedy means to him and more.

 
 
 Expectedly, it is a full-on comedy. Jayaram and Kunchacko Boban play the lead characters. Jayaram is the owner of a pet shop, who also rents out animals for functions while Kunchacko is an MLA. Since both were friends, it was a breeze working with them. Salimkumar, Dharmajan, Anushree and Ashokan are also part of the movie.
  
  
 
 
 I’m someone used to making ten-minute skits. But to be honest, directing this film was the easiest thing I have ever done in my life. Whether it’s a stage show or a film, being prepared is the key, and I was fully prepared from the first shot onwards. Fortunately, everything went smoothly.
 
 For me, the best part of it was interacting with veterans, like Kunchan, for example. He has been in cinema for 47 years! A 78-year-old Yesudas sings for my movie, and I’m sitting by him throughout the process of making that song. All that means a lot to me. 
 
 Whether you make a movie or run a tea-shop, dedication is what matters, and I gave my 100%. But then, I can never be stiff. I would make mistakes on the sets, crack jokes and laugh. Also, when you are with a lot of animals on the set, no one actually loses their temper.
 
 
 
 We had an elephant, horses, donkeys, a camel, nearly a hundred varieties of birds and many more including an iguana. Many had told me that children and animals are the most difficult to shoot and your schedule will keep extending. But consciously or otherwise, all our animals co-operated well. We were not legally allowed to make them perform so they are just there in the background.
 
 Most of our time was spent taking care of them and cleaning their poop! But they were treated like superstars on the set. Not because it’s the rule but because I like them and don’t want them to go through any discomfort because of my movie.
 
 
 
 Jayaram has prosthetic ear extensions in the film, and work on his ears would start at 
  In the movie, his character always has a macaw on his shoulder. But the moment we placed the macaw, Riya, on his shoulder, she pecked off his prosthetic ear. And we had to spend another two hours to put it back again. Afterwards we were always alert about what Riya was up to. She is there throughout the film.
  
  
 
 
 
 I knew that whatever I do, Dharmajan will never give me the respect a director deserves. He is a donkey keeper in the film. Both were pretty much alike.
 He is a busy actor now, and has films waiting for him. However much we tried we couldn’t get an actor-director equation. I only had to look at him and he would do what I wanted. And I’m satisfied too.
  
  
 
 
 I had finished my acting assignments before starting on my film. In Kuttanadan Marpapa, I play Peter, a Malayali who has studied abroad. Sachin is a cricket based movie and I play the heroine’s brother, a cricket captain. I will take up more acting assignments only after the release of Panchavarnathatha.
 
 
 
 I must have acted in some 20 films so far. And yes, in films like Amar Akbar Antony, though my role was small, it looked like I had a full length character. Choosing a film on the basis of screen time is passe. It’s the character that matters now. But often, you don’t get to know how good a role is. And even for a small role, you need to give ten days which I might not be able to spare. I’m not a big star either and I earn more from programmes, so as of now I’m not able to devote more time for acting.
 
 
 
 I don’t think there is any connection between one’s looks and being a comedian. The ‘handsome hero and funny looking comedian’ concept is old, brought about by cinema. Someone asked me once about my film, ‘Does it have cinema comedy or mimicry comedy?’ I didn’t know what he meant! Comedy is what makes you laugh, I thought, whichever the medium. Like Salimkumar said once, ‘Lookil alla, workil aanu karyam’.
 
 People say you are a perfect combination of humour and tact while dealing with guests, as the host of Badai Bungalow… Is elaborate preparation involved?
 There is a difference between character and behaviour. Quite often, people who we think have a good character have actually trained themselves to behave well. Whatever I do on my shows — whether it is the respect with which I treat seniors, or something else — is my character, not behaviour. I don’t have to train for that.
 
 I have clear stances about everything but I never express them in public, nor do I post my opinions on my social media pages. You can’t change people anyway. The only thing we can do is change ourselves. I prefer to maintain a good relationship with everyone. If I disagree, I just keep the thought to myself and walk away. 
  
  
 
 
 His name is Giridhar, we call him Veeran at home. I wanted to call him Mauli, which means crown, on which Peeli (peacock feather) sits. But then my wife told me Mauli is a popular milk brand in Pune where she is from. So we decided on Veeran. My family comes to the location often and we try to spend as much time as possible together.
 
 
 
 To be honest, I don’t check out Malayalam comic videos at all. I check out funny videos of animals, and listen to songs online. I also browse through speeches of renowned people including politicians.
 
 
 
 No, I have no ambition at all. It is only now that they teach, ‘Aim at the skies and you will reach the tree top’. When we grew up, we were taught, ‘Don’t hope for something you don’t deserve’. My greatest wish was to become part of a mimicry troupe, not even a solo performer. TV and cinema came up by accident. Even today I don’t work for 
 . I just give 100% to what I do today. Automatically, 
  work will come my way.
 
 
 
 To live in peace, I guess. Where I stand today is beyond my dreams, unimaginable 15 years ago. So I don’t want to limit my future to any particular dream. 
 
 
 
 
 
