MUMBAI: A Mercedes that didn’t stop to help, a coffee shop that didn’t offer water. One week after the   inferno, wedding choreographer   Shroff, who narrowly escaped the blaze, recounted how the city had turned its back on her, the night 14 people lost their lives at the rooftop   1Above. The 30-year-old, sitting up in her hospital bed on Friday, recalled the night she “almost died”. 

 “The apathy we saw that night is heartbreaking. As we ran out of the elevator with burn injuries, screaming in pain, hundreds stood there clicking pictures and videos,” she said. Aksheeta, her husband Deep Shroff and six of her cousins and their spouses were dining at the resto-bar when the fire engulfed the restaurant in minutes. 
 
 With melted sheets of burning plastic sticking to her skin and hair, Aksheeta said she tried to stop a Mercedes that was leaving the premises. “We were literally begging people to help us. The lady sitting inside the car gestured as if she was slowing down, but as we ran towards her, she sped away. A couple of my friends ran to a coffee shop asking for water but they refused. A man finally threw some money on the counter following which people were given water,” she said. 
 
 A samaritan finally asked his family to get off the car and drove Aksheeta, Deep and two of his relatives to Global Hospital, Parel.
 
 “On reaching the hospital, we were told that they didn’t have a burns unit. They advised us to go to KEM Hospital, which was at a distance of about 400 metres. I was wearing a short dress, which was tattered by then. My husband and his cousins were almost shirtless and their trousers were falling off. In that condition, we started running towards KEM in the middle of the night. In those three to four minutes between hospitals, I grabbed my husband’s phone to call my parents. I couldn’t think of words. I could only tell them ‘I was burning’,” said Aksheeta. “That moment I kept thinking where is the spirit of Mumbai.” 
 
 At KEM, Aksheeta said the doctors were prompt and knew exactly how to cater to the emergency. The family later decided to seek treatment at Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo. Aksheeta and Deep are admitted in adjoining rooms and often talk through Skype and FaceTime to avoid infection. Deep has suffered burns on his hands and back. Her brother-in-law Siddharth Shroff, who has sustained 26% burns, has moved to the Masina Hospital as he may need prolonged hospitalization. “It makes me angry that the restaurants are allowed to blatantly violate norms and people like us pay for it. Each day my husband and I stay in the hospital, our livelihoods suffer,” she said. 
 
 Aksheetahopes the Kamala Mills incident serves as a lesson for Mumbaikars. 
 
 “When the fire started at 1Above, people inside the restaurant were taking pictures and videos. At least 30 people tried to stuff themselves inside an elevator, not realizing everyone could have died inside. There were underaged boys and girls who were drinking. How can the law look the other way?”
 
 
