BASANTI: Morufa Bibi has been rushing to the cursed spot from where she picked up her 10-year-old son   on Thursday. “He died in my lap. We are daily wagers and have nothing to do with party politics. Why have I been punished?” she sobbed.

 
 Hetalkhali, the   village in South 24 Parganas, looked like a ghost town the day after. Bloodstains mark the desolate road leading to Adivasi Mela, and trees bear bullet marks with used cartridges strewn all over. There seems to be more in store when the bodies return to the village on Saturday. This is the fifth time in months that Basanti witnessed such a bloodbath, courtesy the inner-party clash in Trinamool.
 
 Yet, the warring chieftains —   (former Trinamool block president) and Aman Ali Laskar (Trinamool Yuva) — stooped to body politics, claiming Riazul’s family were their supporters. 
 
 There was a similar showdown at Charabidya Bazar in the morning with Trinamool Yuva refusing to hand over Hasan Laskar’s (28) body to the police. Its leaders caused a ruckus, demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. They also wondered how the body lay under a tree all night while police conducted raids in the locality since Thursday. Around 10am, police took the body for post-mortem at Laskar’s intervention. 
 
 So far, seven persons have been arrested, including Trinamool gram panchayat member Suchitra Mahato’s husband. Police have cordoned off the entire village.
 
 Thirteen-year old Alamgir has been moving from one hospital to another with a bullet injury in his leg. State combat force constable   is still critical. Doctors have conducted a surgery on another injured, Umesh Bera, and taken the bullet out from his body.
 
 The Basanti incident has again embarrassed Trinamool. “What happened is unfortunate. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is upset with the violence. Things normalized after the CM warned against such activities till violence broke out again on Thursday. Our South 24 Parganas president,  , is looking into the party affair. I am there to to give him all help. The culprits will be taken to task,” said Trinamool secretary general  .
 
 Pratima Mandal, Trinamool MP from Joynagar, has sent a report to Sovan Chatterjee. “The school student’s death is unpardonable. I have urged action against the guilty,” she said. Chatterjee has taken note of the report. “The party will take strong action,” Chatterjee said. 
 
 
