NOIDA: Police probing the death of a senior   official are scanning Wednesday evening’s CCTV footage of   station from where he would usually take the train home.

 The police have also sought the help of some of the senior official’s colleagues to identify him in the footage but were yet to chance upon anything concrete till late Friday evening. Sources said some of the colleagues had pointed to a man in a white shirt as resembling the official but the police are yet to confirm that.
 
 Amit Pandey, the deputy general manager of BHEL, was found dead with a gunshot wound in a woody stretch off the   on Thursday afternoon.
 
 DIG Love Kumar, however, pointed out that the watch Pandey was wearing was an expensive one and the fact that it was not missing could nullify the robbery angle.
 
 “This has to be taken into account. The watch was not cheap. We are in touch with the family. More details will come out soon,” he said.
 
 Pandey would earlier take the Blue Line Metro to reach home in Noida’s Sector 104 from his office on Lodhi Road in Delhi. He had recently shifted to the Violet and Magenta lines to cut down travel time. He would board the train at JL Nehru Stadium, go to Kalkaji Mandir and change for the magenta line to Botanical Garden.
 
 Pandey’s body was handed over to his relatives after an autopsy. The Pandeys have gone to their ancestral place in Varanasi for the last rites.
 
 The police, who had earlier said Pandey’s belongings were missing, have found his I-card, wrist watch and a pen from near the body. However, the backpack in which he carried his official documents is missing.
 
 “His backpack has not been found so far. It apparently had his wallet, credit cards, etc. We are trying to spot him in the CCTV footage at the Metro station,” said Piyush Singh, circle officer I.
 
 The police said they were probing all angles. The missing backpack has led the cops to suspect a robbery attempt, but they have not ruled out   either. “Prima facie, it seems to be a robbery attempt. But we are probing all angles,” Kumar said.
 
 Pandey’s brother Sumit, who was in Dehradun for the past two days, has returned for the last rites. His colleagues described him as an “efficient” employee who had been sent abroad by the company for further studies.
 
 
