In the latest episode of  , the environment in the house turned mysterious because of a new task.

 The previous episode started with the continuation of the task, 'Daad Firyaad'. Resham and   had to convince the housemates to save one person between them. The housemates had a long discussion and most of them decided to save Resham.
 
 
 But Sai and Pushkar didn’t support the decision taken by majority of the housemates. They supported Megha and they were quite firm about their decision. Even Usha supported Megha.
 
 
 Facing the camera, Sai said that she was hurt by the games Resham’s group was playing. She even said, since the opposite group had a majority of contestants, it was evident that they would win the task.
 
 
  Finally, Sai and Pushkar also gave up on their decision and supported Resham.
 
 
 Sushant announced the decision and said that they had chosen Resham to be safe. He also nominated Megha. Sushant's reason was that Resham’s behavior was better than Megha’s.
 
 Hearing which, Megha lost her temper and said that she didn’t agree with Sushant. She said that her behaviour is better than Resham’s.
 
 
  Bigg Boss then announced the names of the contestants, who were nominated for the eliminations. The names were Usha,  , Sushant, Sai, and Megha.
 
 
  On the next day, Bigg Boss gave a new task to all the contestants. The name of the task was ‘Murder Mystery’. According to the task, a murder would take place in the house. The contestants were asked to play different roles and perform tasks assigned to them. The contestants had to play three roles- common people, detective and a murderer.
 
 
  Bigg Boss called each contestant in the confession room. There were small boxes kept in the room and the contestants were asked to open any one of them. The ones who got the white marble pearl became the common man, the ones with blue marble became the detective and the ones with black one became the murderer.
 
 
  So Sushant and Smita were the detectives and Aastad was the murderer, rest others were common people in the task.
 
 Aastad was asked to hide the family photo of one of the contestants and in return, that person would be killed. Aastad took Pushkar’s family photo. So the latter was the first person to get killed.
 
