COIMBATORE: Nearly 10,000 households in the city will soon get drinking   supply connections as the   will start the work for the same from Wednesday. 

 Though there was sufficient water level in dams since the monsoon last year, the civic body was waiting for the approval from rural and municipal administration minister   to give connections. In a recent press meet, the minister said the connections will be provided from January 14 to all the applicants. 
 
 A corporation official said nearly 2,000 applications each were received from the five zones of the corporation. “We will start providing the connections from Wednesday (January 17). We will start the work in a phased manner and ensure that all the connections are provided in a few months’ time,” said an official.
 
 Most of the connections are for added areas and only 30% are for the city area. “Very few people inside the old city limits have applied for new connection. Most of the applications are from the added areas,” said a water supply engineer.
 
 Since there were a lot of complaints on the road being damaged for laying pipelines, the officials said that they will ensure that the city roads are not dug up for providing connections. “We would take the connections along the sides of the roads wherever possible,” said an official. The cost of the connection will be between Rs15,000 and Rs 30,000 based on the property tax and area of the building, said the official.
 
 New water connections were last given in September, 2016. Activists said the water level in reservoirs reached their full capacity in last November. 
 
 “The connections should have been given two months ago itself. Waiting for the minister’s approval is unfair. Water is a basic necessity and the city corporation commissioner has all the powers to make these decisions,” said a DMK councillor.
 
 Meanwhile, plumbers said that the corporation was yet to re-start the online process of allotting contracts to the plumbers. “The online portal was started to ensure transparency. Also, there were more than 80 plumbers and everyone wanted work. In many wards, plumbers belonging to opposition parties are not allotted. 
 
 Former   councillors and plumbers, who are also members of AIADMK, have formed a coterie to grab the contracts,” said an official.
 
 
