NAGPUR: The   formed   (CAG), Dharampeth in synergy with the city police launched a crackdown against violators of traffic rules at Traffic Park on Saturday. The traffic police officials slapped fines and ceased the vehicles of underage riders, people riding without a helmet, wrong side driving and parking in a no parking zone.

 Bhanu Rajagopalan, an active member of the CAG helped in initiating this drive. “ Not only are these lawbreakers endangering their own lives, but are also putting a risk to other people's lives,” said Rajagopalan. There have been cases of wrong side driving of not just two wheelers but also heavy vehicles like trucks and tractors which can be dangerous for the residents. 
 
 With a strength of over 172 families, CAG aims to uproot the civic problems faced by the residents of Dharampeth. “This drive is conducted usually on Sundays and is being conducted for over three months now and we are hoping to see a change soon,” Rajagopalan added. He also said that with the help of the Police Department we will try to book as many cases as possible that will instill a fear that the traffic rule violators will be penalized. 
 
 A police inspector, two Sub Inspectors, along with 3 constables were present from the police department. Satish Bagde, PSI, told TOI that approximately 20-25 cases are registered from 7pm to 9pm on each drive. 
 
 “We expect that at least educated citizens should drive responsibly. The police is there to guard them but it is their responsibility to follow the traffic rules instead of being completely dependent on the police,” said Bagde.
 
 He also mentioned that it is up to the citizens to make Nagpur truly a ‘Smart City.’ 
 
 In an effort to improve traffic   awareness in all areas of the city and to take action against the lawbreakers he also urged citizens to form active groups like the CAG in other areas as well so that the police and the citizens together can go a long way in making the city a better place.
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
 
