VIJAYAWADA:   chief minister Chandrababu   could not attend the Republic Day celebrations as he got stuck at Abu Dhabi on Thursday due to bad weather on his way back from the World Economic   in Davos.

 Sources said Naidu was expected to reach   by 7am on Friday but he got stuck in Abu Dhabi due to thick cover of fog. He could reach Vijayawada only around 5pm.
 
 
 In a departure from tradition, Naidu’s wife Bhuvaneswari unfurled the national flag at the chief minister residence at Undavalli here. While some claimed that there was a breach of protocol and that a deputy chief minister or any other minister should have hoisted the national flag.
 
 
 
 
 
 This was one Republic Day that Andhra Pradesh chief minister Chandrababu Naidu and his family will not forget. The chief minister was to have returned on time from his visit to Davos, Switzerland for the World Economic Forum, and be in Vijayawada in the early hours of Friday to take part in the Republic Day Parade at the   Municipal Corporation grounds. However, due to fog delaying the Abu Dhabi sector of his flight, Naidu could land at   only by 5 pm on Friday.
 
 As a result, in perhaps the first instance of a protocol breach by Naidu, he could not be present and receive governor E S L Narasimhan who took the salute at the parade and delivered the R-Day address. And in another departure from tradition, his wife Bhuvaneswari unfurled the tricolour at the CM’s Camp Office-cum residence in Vijayawada and also took the salute.
 
 
 According to source, Naidu was to have landed at Delhi from Davos on an international flight in the wee hours of Friday and then proceeded to Vijayawada via Hyderabad in his chartered flight.
 
 However, in view of the presence of fog, his flight got delayed at Abu Dhabi. Subsequently, he was able to land in Delhi only around noon, upon which he took the chartered flight direct to Vijayawada but still could land at   only around 5 pm. By that time, the governor had returned to Hyderabad to be on time for the At Home event hosted by him. Naidu then took part in a Dalit event in Vijayawada on Friday and retired for the day.
 
 Earlier, in the morning, Naidu’s wife Bhuvaneswari unfurled the tricolour at the   on the banks of Krishna river in Vijayawada on Friday morning. Again, it was perhaps the first instance when a CM’s wife unfurled the flag on the occasion of Republic Day. Some claimed that there was a breach of protocol and that a deputy chief minister or any other minister should have done the act. However, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) sources said the event was taking place at the residence of CM Chandrababu Naidu and therefore, there was nothing wrong in his wife unfurling the flag and taking the R-Day salute in his stead.
 
