NASHIK: The infrastructure at the citybased referral hospital is in bad shape.

 Even as three lifts at the hospital remain non-operational for over a year, it has now come to light that the central air conditioned ( ) system of two intensive care units (ICU) are also not working for over a year. While the cardiac ICU is located on the top floor, the urology ICU is at the third floor. Both these units have 10 beds each. The super speciality hospital caters to patients from several districts including  , Jalgaon, Dhule, Nandurbar among others.
 
 “The ICUs of any hospitals need to have an AC as it prevents air borne infections in patients admitted there. A wound or a stich also does not get infected due to the ACs. Moreover, the life supporting equipment installed in ICUs also function well when the ACs are working,” Mangesh Thete, Nashik unit president of   (IMA), said.
 
 The hospital management claimed that it has written over a dozen letters to public works department to carry out the repair of the ACs during the last one year. The government rule stipulates that the hospital management on its own cannot undertake any kind of repairs and have to fall back on   for any kind of maintenance work at the hospital. “At times the ACs got repaired but it again developed snag. We had a meeting with PWD officials on Tuesday and they have assured to repair the machines,” hospital superintendent   said.
 
 What compounds the woes of the critically ill patients admitted to the cardiac ICU is that it is located on the top floor of the building and during summer the entire ward becomes hot.
 
 “Since the ACs are not working, we have to open few windows of the cardiac ICU for cross ventilation,” added the staff.
 
 Initially, the staff manning the cardiac ICU continued to insist for immediate repairs of the ACs. But when it did not work out, they ensured that the hospital management set up wall mounted fans near each bed of the ward about five months ago. Interestingly, the hospital management on Wednesday initiated the process of fixing wall mounted fans in the urology ICU near each of the 10 beds after a section of the city’s political fraternity agitated on the issue on Tuesday.
 
 Like the ACs the four elevators of the hospital had developed snags more than a year ago and recently one of them was repaired by the PWD. The other three are still non-operational.
 
