Mumbai: In the first arrests since the Rs 11,000-plus crore bank fraud stunned the nation, a special CBI court sent a retired deputy manager in the Punjab National Bank’s forex department, Gokulnath Shetty, a single-window operator (clerk), Manoj Kharat, and an accountant and authorized signatory for prime accused Nirav Modi’s firms, Hemant Bhatt, to police custody until March 3. Modi, meanwhile, is holed up in a luxury hotel suite overlooking Central Park in New York, a five-minute walk from Trump International Hotel and Tower.

 The arrests relate to the first FIR launched by PNB on January 31 alleging a fraud of Rs 280 crore. Since then, the CBI has filed another FIR and the latest estimate of the fraud has grown to Rs 11,300 crore, and there could be more to come. 
 
 In his remand order, CBI judge S R Tamboli said the offence against the accused was serious. “The remand report shows that the extent of fraud may rise beyond Rs 6,000 crore. There must be fair chance to probe the offence which has consequences for the economy of the nation.’’ He also said the agency needed time to recover missing fraudulent letters of undertakings (LoUs, a form of bank guarantee) issued by Shetty.
 
 Meanwhile, CBI on Saturday searched six more places, including PNB’s Brady House branch, and questioned six PNB officials to know more about the “larger conspiracy”. This followed Kharat’s alleged admission that issuing LoUs in favour of private firms and sending SWIFT messages to overseas branches of Indian banks was “regularly going on” and “more officers are involved in it”.
 
 From P 1
 
 The ED continued its raid on Nirav Modi’s premises on Saturday, and recovered jewellery that it claimed was worth around Rs 20 crore. On Thursday and Friday, they claimed to have seized jewellery collectively worth Rs 6,650 crore from various premises belonging to Nirav and his close relatives.
 
 Prior to being presented in court, the three were taken to a hospital for a medical check. Arguing for custody, CBI prosecutor Om Prakash said the three would be required for a thorough investigation. He said the probe could not be completed as the “firms’ partners are abroad and more information is needed from the arrested accused”. The CBI further said, “Bhatt is also a director on 15-16 companies of Nirav Modi group and is aware of the scam, but is not cooperating.’’ Prakash said the fraud was likely to go beyond Rs 280 crore and up to Rs 6,000 crore. Besides Nirav Modi, the other accused include his brother Neeshal, wife Ami Modi, and uncle Mehul Choksi—all of whom are partners of Diamonds R US, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds. The counsel said they fled the country in the first week of January 2018 before PNB lodged its complaint with CBI.
 
 The FIR alleged that Shetty and Kharat, during their posting in the forex department at Brady House, Mumbai, fraudulently issued eight LoUs equivalent to Rs 280 crore on February 9, 10 and 14, 2017, in favour of Allahabad Bank, Hong Kong, and Axis Bank, Hong Kong, without following prescribed procedure. It added that the funds raised for import bills were not utilized for such purposes in many cases. 
 
 The prosecutor said “the accused in a conspiracy, without obtaining any security or taking into account the interest of bank, disbursed the amount which instead of going to the supplier or foreign exporter went to Allahabad and Axis banks in Hong Kong because the officers of banks didn’t mention the bill numbers, and hence fund diversion and siphoning occurred”. 
 
 Kharat, the youngest among the accused—having joined the bank three years ago after completing engineering—appeared in court in a green checked shirt. Dressed in a light blue shirt, Shetty stood next to a silver-haired, bespectacled Bhatt. All three shook their heads in response to the judge’s initial query on whether they had been ill-treated by the police. 
 
 CBI is understood to be in touch with Indian embassies in US, Belgium, Mauritius and UK to learn about Modi and Choksi’s whereabouts. It is also verifying reports received from immigration sources that Modi may have travelled to Senegal or Malta since his last sighting in Switzerland. The agency has asked the embassies, through the government, to mount surveillance about the whereabouts of the family.
 
 In court, Shetty’s counsel said the CBI had no basis for the Rs 6,000 crore fraud figure, and that this was “nothing but trial by media”. Shetty was not the “main beneficiary who was comfortable elsewhere’’, he claimed. He said the CBI wanted to “recover missing documents related to alleged fraudulent LoUs’’ from Shetty, but wondered how as a retired officer, could he be having any. Kharat’s lawyer sought minimum custody for him. Bhat’s counsel argued hard against any custody for him and even said he was “not named accused’’. He said the CBI was prone to blow up the extent of scams and cited the 2G case.
 
 The judge asked him to focus on the present case. Bhatt’s lawyer said his client was a heart patient and sought medical aid as well as permission to meet him. “This is CBI propaganda. He was called to the CBI office and that he went there was his mistake. He should have applied for pre-arrest bail and gone on Monday,” he added. Bhatt even had a lawyer fly in from Delhi to represent him and he submitted a thick compilation of Supreme Court judgments to argue that CBI must make out a case for custody and comply with rights of an accused.
 
 
