CHANDIGARH:   on Saturday after brief discussion on the issue of amendment of service rules in the light of the   of the Woman at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, deferred the item for next syndicate. The legal opinion sought on the matter was divided, said sources.

 Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH) recommended that the university may recommend to ministry of human resource development (MHRD) to modify the regulation to include that, ‘in case of persons being found guilty by PUCASH of an offence of sexual harassment of women at workplace, for major penalty, the word’ ‘2/3 majority’ be replaced with ‘simple majority of the persons present and voting’ which refers to opinions of the two-third of the members present in the decision-making meeting.
 
 Sources said there were legal opinions sought by the vice-chancellor   on the recommendation. However, both the legal opinions were divided. According to one opinion, two-third majority of the entire senate is necessary, while, another legal opinion sought stated that two-third majority of the members present can decide the major penalty. So, the matter was deferred.
 
 The replacement of the regulation of two-third majority with simple majority holds significance since in the senate meeting on April 1 when the House polled to terminate the faculty member found guilty of sexual harassment, the House failed to decide on the quantum of punishment. The House could not achieve two-third majority to reach at the consensus to terminate the faculty member. Now, the senate will decide the quantum of punishment in the matter on May 27.
 
 The syndicate decided that the university’s senate will decide on the new migration rules for undergraduate and post-graduate courses of Panjab University. 
 
 Moreover, Panjab University syndicate also approved the 5% fee hike of the existing and new entrants of the university for the foreign nationals/PIO/NRI students from the 2018-19 session. 
 
 A meeting of the committee constituted by Panjab University vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover held a meeting on April 9 to finalise the fee structure for the foreign nationals and NRIs. It was decided in the meeting to enhance the fee by 5%.
 
 Other moves by syndicate
 
 - Syndicate decided that the university’s senate will decide on the new migration rules for undergraduate and post-graduate courses of Panjab University
 
 - Syndicate also approved the 5% fee hike of the existing and new entrants of the university for the foreign nationals/PIO/NRI students from the 2018-19 session
 
 Before and after
 
 For the LLB (3-year course), the tuition fee was Rs 26,760 per annum, which will become Rs 28,100 after 5% hike. The tuition fees for BE (UIET) is proposed to increase from Rs 81,000 to Rs 85,050 for the foreign nationals and NRI students. For MPharma, the tuition fee is proposed to increase from Rs 1,84, 080 per annum to Rs 1,93, 285 per annum.
 
 
