KOCHI: A two-day paddle expedition, co-sponsored by Kochi   Heritage Project, will try to create awareness and spreading the message of river cleaning, while giving a boost to the state's responsible tourism initiative.

 The two-day expedition will start from the   near   and end at   (near  ). The kayakers will cover a total distance of 40km while passing through important Muziris destinations on the route. "The expedition - akin to the ones that were conducted in   with the aim of spreading awareness about the importance of keeping the river clean - will try to develop a sense of responsibility among people to keep the river clean. It is also an attempt to change the working model of river tourism here, by combining adventure and heritage tourism through paddling and kayaking via national waterway 3 that passes through the Muziris port," said manager of Jellyfish Watersports, the organization that will conduct the event on January 19 and 20.
 
 National waterway 3 is a 168km stretch of inland navigation route running from Kollam to Kottapuram, connecting rivers, canals and backwaters. The event will also involve an overnight camp and a stay at homestays, targeting international tourists and national adventure enthusiasts. Around 50-75 paddlers are expected to take part in the first edition of the expedition.
 
 "If the event manages to attract a significant crowd this time, it will hopefully become an annual event, which would be a boost for the heritage tourism around Muziris," said managing director of Muziris Heritage Project Nowshad PM.
 
 Certified guides and trainers - who will provide basic training sessions for participants - will be made available by the organizers prior to the event. The first day of the expedition will cover 16 km, while the second day will cover 24km.
 
 Apart from Kerala tourism and India tourism, various agencies such as Kerala Travel Mart Society, Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry, ATTOI, TAAI, ADTOI, Confederation of Accredited Tour Operators, endorsed the event. They felt that using adventure tourism as an aide to spread awareness on dying rivers will be a good starting step in the right direction.
 
 
