Annual observation of autism week is the right time to introspect on issues related to autistic kids. Lack of a uniform and scientific approach towards autism in the country is one thing that worries experts. So far, early intervention has been the only mantra that guided autism treatment.

 Dr P A Suresh, neurologist and founder of Institute for Communicative and Cognitive Neurosciences (ICCONS), said there should be consensus on the diagnostic tool that should be adopted. “Either DSM IV or V (classification for diagnosing autistic disorders) can be adopted. Unfortunately, in our country a psychologist or speech therapist will do the diagnosis. As per DSM IV, a doctor must be part of the diagnosis team,” he said.
 
 Suresh, who has over 30 years of experience in the treatment of autism, said it is a heterogeneous group of disorders. “There will be epigenetic factors behind autism. Preventable factors such as brain damage, premature birth, epilepsy, hypo or hyper thyroid in parents can be reasons. Correct diagnosis with adequate support of investigation can prevent such incidents,” he said. Suresh said that since a fixed treatment method is not available, an evidence-based protocol must be followed.
 
 Suresh said while many autism centres are mushrooming, they do not follow any scientific approach. He also questioned the use of alternative medicine to treat autism. “I am not against any other form of medicine. But, except modern medicine which described autism in 1943, ayurveda or homeopathy has not said anything about it,” he said.
 
 Planning board member B Ekbal, who is a neurosurgeon himself, said many ‘experts’ cannot differentiate between autism, cerebral palsy, Down’s Syndrome and learning disabilities. “Also, various departments such as health, education and social justice are dealing with it. There is a lack of co-ordination. There must be proper policy to deal with aspects like treatment, awareness, training for parents and teachers etc,” he said.
 
 Dr Soumya Sundaram, assistant professor of neurology at Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences, said they follow a set of protocols for clinical assessment and diagnostic evaluation of autism. “Early intervention can improve the condition. Usually, the onset of autism happens in the first two years of a child. Speech, behavioural and occupational therapy, given till the age of five can improve the condition,” she said.
 
 Dr Suresh also busted a popular campaign on autism that Albert Einstein and Isaac Newton were autistic. “They might have shown symptoms of autism high which means they have high IQ, but were low in social mingling. However, it is wrong to call them autistic because they could manage their individual needs. That is not the case with autistic persons,” he said.
 
 While most initiatives are for treating autistic kids, the needs of adolescent autistic persons are often ignored. “Autistic adolescent male is often difficult to manage in a home environment due to violence, temper and sexually aggressive behaviour. There must be adolescent homes for such persons,” said Suresh.
 
 ICCONS centre at Shoranur has mooted setting up of an adolescent home for adolescent autistic persons. Many such patients also suffer from epilepsy and diabetics and are prone to bone fracture due to lack of   “Only   with expert support can address these issues,” said Dr Suresh.
 
