Patiala: Controversy over the ‘inflammatory’ speech given by Congress leader Harinderpal Singh, alias Harry Mann, during a party workers’ meet at Devigarh in Patiala district refused to end as SAD held protests on Wednesday at various places, demanding action against him. On other hand, the Congress issued a show-cause notice to Harry and also asked him to tender a public apology.

 Demanding action against the Congress leader for his ‘inflammatory’ speech, SAD held protests at four places in Sanour, from where Harry had unsuccessfully contested the 2017 assembly elections. Akali leader and Sanour MLA Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra said in case action was not taken against Harry, he would sit on a dharna outside New Moti Bagh — private residence of chief minister Amarinder Singh — on January 15. He said if need be he would also stage a protest outside the residence of Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi.
 
 Chandumajra demanded that besides registration of a criminal case against Harry for giving a provocative speech and hurting Sikh religious sentiments, he should immediately be removed as a syndicate member of Punjabi University, Patiala, as it was a prestigious educational institution and no ‘gangster-like leader’ should be allowed to be its part.
 
 Congress distanced itself from the controversy. Party spokesman Raj Kumar Verka said a show-cause notice had been issued to Harry for making such a statement. Punjab Pardesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar said such an act was highly condemnable and the leader should tender a public apology. Jakhar said he had spoken to Harry on Tuesday during which the latter regretted making such a statement.
 
 However, Harry remained adamant and claimed the statement given by him had been misinterpreted. He reiterated that during the meet at Devigarh, some workers had lamented that they had to face political snub for over 10 years when SAD-BJP alliance was in power. He said Guru Gobind Singh had written to the Mughal rulers that to protect themselves, Sikhs would not desist from using the Sri Sahib (symbolic sword). “It was in this context that I had spoken of using Sri Sahib at the workers’ meeting,” Mann said.
 
 Meanwhile, SAD wrote to the Akal Takht jathedar, seeking action against Harry for hurting Sikh sentiments. 
 
 BOX: Former deputy speaker of Punjab assembly Bir Devinder Singh said, “It’s unbelievable that Harinderpal Singh had the audacity to make an obnoxious public statement that he will distribute 10 swords in each village of Sanour constituency to Congress party workers, who will manage the polling booths and they may chop off the head of any opponent in the panchayat elections with impunity. After committing the heinous crime they should come to him and he will ensure their protection from the clutches of law.” He said chief minister Amarinder Singh should immediately take strict action against Harry.
 
 
