LUDHIANA: On Saturday evening, chief minister Captain   played host to some prominent industrialists of Punjab. Along with taking a feedback from them about the state’s new industrial policy and their suggestions, he also hosted a dinner for them in his home. On their part, industrialists were all praise for the new industrial policy, and all of them appreciated the effort put in by the government and officials who devised the initiative, which puts existing industry at par with new units in terms of incentives.

 According to sources, one of the major highlights of the meeting was the request put forward by some businessmen to set up a regulatory body to check the mushrooming of engineering colleges, which are playing with the future of students by just awarding them a ‘paper degree’ without any practical experience, because of which they are unable to secure any jobs. Similarly, industries too are unable to find suitable candidates. Sources also informed that the CM took a serious note of this suggestion and promised action in this regard. In addition, the high rate of power being charged from small industries, and pending VAT refunds were issues raised prominently by businessmen.
 
 Meanwhile, chairman-cum-managing director of Avon Cycles,  , who attended the meeting said, “It turned out to be a very good meeting, conducted in a very friendly environment. Small industrial units engaged in manufacturing of bicycle parts are being charged very high rate of power, and their VAT refunds are pending for quite some time now. These are people who contribute towards manufacturing 90% of bicycles in the country, and if their problems are not resolved, it will have huge repercussions.”
 
 According to  , managing director of Nahar Group: “The CM asked us for suggestions and improvements in the new industrial policy. The policy is in fact very good and favourable for both existing and new industrial units, particularly the provision of passing on the benefits at par to both old and new industries for modernization. My only suggestion was to have tighter deadlines for the government to give clearances to industries.”
 
 According to  , chairman-cum-managing director of  : “Punjab’s industrial policy is very well thought out, and it is working in tandem with the Union government’s policy, particularly for the food processing sector. We apprised the CM about Punjab’s industry being at the receiving end, as we are logistically at a disadvantage, and the only way out is to improve productivity and continue innovation. So, farm productivity and innovation should go further up, and for that reason, there is going to be a large opportunity for the food sector in Punjab.”
 
 
