PUNE: E-governance and digital ecosystem in the city are set for a major fillip.

 The   has come up with a   document for the city for the next three years (2018-2020) to boost digital transactions and use of technology-based tools in daily life.
 
 
  
 
 As a part of the strategy, about 12 major goals have been identified, including laying of 2,500km of fibre connectivity and commencement of 500   hotspots across the city. The strategy document has also focused on 100% digital literacy among residents and ensuring that 90% of PMC’s transactions are cashless by 2020. Besides, it has also emphasized on setting up 25 e-health centres to deliver 29 diagnostic tests and targeted service notifications to 2.5 lakh households.
 
 A document pertaining to the strategy and its implementation was recently published by the civic administration. It has also highlighted existing status of the city’s digital reach. As per the document, 64% of the city’s households have access to cellphones and 22% of the households have access to laptop/computer with internet connection.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said the digital strategy document provides a three-year action plan for the city to become “truly digital”. “The purpose of the strategy was to set an agenda with clear goals before the administration to provide digital ecosystem, comprising digital infrastructure, services and cashless payment. Being the centre of the IT sector, the city was well placed to gain from this digital strategy,” Kumar added.
 
 He said the city has already started its journey towards digital goals and some major projects are about to be implemented.
 
  officials said a plan would be chalked out for effective implementation of the initiatives and achieve the goals set under the digital strategy. “The administration has set up over 100 Wi-Fi hotspots in association with the   (PSCDCL). These cover major public spaces and gardens. The response to the initiative has been tremendous so far. Besides, the civic body launched an advanced version of PMC CARE this week to expand the online services and also increase involvement of people in better planning and execution of projects,” the officials added.
 
 PMC said it has completed mapping of the public utilities, including water pipelines, public toilets and other amenities through geographic information system (GIS).
 
 
