BHOPAL: Cash-strapped   (BMC) is going into arbitration with private outdoor advertisers for recovery of Rs 150 crore, said mayor  . The amount includes BMC charges for outdoor advertising for seven years with interest as per the rates fixed under collector guidelines.

 “There have been objections over the method of calculation of arrears. A retired high court judge would be requested to for appointment as sole arbitrator in the matter,” said BMC commissioner  . 
 
 BMC officials hinted that they expect a recovery of around 70% of the dues and hope the matter would be settled before the end of the financial year.
 
 BMC has been unable to recover the amount from private agencies, despite several attempts. Various notices for recovery of arrears from private agencies have not yielded the desired results.
 
 The move to appoint an arbitrator comes after   did not provide any relief to the hoarding operators petitioners against the   high court ( ) order dated March 12, 2015 given in favour of the BMC.
 
 The hoarding petitioners had filed petitions in the MPHC against the BMC. In response, MPHC turned down 17 petitions and let the civic body take action under which the hoarding petitioners were to pay seven years’ amount with interest as per the rates fixed under collector guidelines. The petitioners had challenged the BMC order to hike the rates as per the collector’s guidelines.
 
 BMC has adopted a new outdoor advertisement rules, framed by urban development department. However, revenues of the civic body have not increased as expected. Outdoor advertisement can fetch up to Rs 500 crore per year for the BMC, as per estimates.
 
  leader and corporator, Girish Sharma alleged that,“Once the Supreme Court has declined the petition and vindicated BMC stand in the matter, there is no need for arbitration. BMC should attach properties of those who have not paid the dues and take legal action. If the BMC argument is that dues were not properly calculated, it would contradict BMC stance in the court.” 
 
 Sources said that around 50 private companies were issued notices to recover the dues.
 
 
