PATNA: Police on Friday claimed to have identified the location of the person behind the leak of physics question paper of Intermediate examination conducted by the Bihar School Examination Board ( ) on Thursday. Police sources said the mobile phone numbers used in circulating the question papers were also traced.

 “We are trying to nab the person who leaked the question paper of physics. We traced him through the mobile phones of eight persons who were detained on Friday from different locations in Motihari. During the investigation, it was found that the paper matched with the original one. We are not disclosing the names of those involved in the racket as it will hamper the investigation,” a source in the investigating team told this newspaper on Friday. 
 
 East Champaran police had detained eight persons, including three examinees, at Motihari on Thursday following a tip-off that they were circulating physics question paper before the examination started. It came two days after Class XII biology question paper went viral on social media nearly two hours after the exam started in   district on Tuesday (February 6).
 
 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor, however, said he was yet to receive the investigation report. “The board will take further action based upon findings of the investigation,” he said. Kishor has asked the invigilators and teachers to collect the OMR sheets for objective questions by 11.15am in the first sitting and by 3.15pm in the second sitting of the ongoing examinations.
 
 Meanwhile, altogether 113 examinees were expelled for using unfair means and two impersonators were arrested on the fourth day of the Intermediate exams being conducted by BSEB at 1384 examination centres across the state.
 
 According to data released by the BSEB, Aurangabad and Madhepura topped the list with 13 expulsions, followed by 12 in Bhojpur, nine in  , eight each in Buxar and Saharsa, seven in  , five each in Nawada and Jamui, four each in Vaishali and Rohtas, three each in Munger, Gaya, Samastipur and Nalanda, two each in Patna, Saran, Begusarai and Darbhanga, and one each in Sheikhpura, Araria, Arwal, Lakhisarai and East Champaran. Two impersonators were caught at one exam centre each in Araria and Madhepura districts.
 
 Total 4.55 lakh examinees appeared for Hindi paper of NRB (non-rashtra bhasha) in the first sitting, whereas 51,241 examinees appeared for accountancy and vocational course in the second sitting.
 
 
