MYSURU: As part of its various eco-friendly measures, the   (UoM) has decided to adopt   (RWH) in five blocks at  , the varsity’s postgraduate campus. The move is expected to reduce the varsity’s reliance on the   water supplied by the government agencies, and in time, to become completely self-sufficient when it comes to water requirements.

 The mechanism is being adopted by the commerce, statistics, library, information science, geography and humanities’ blocks. The water collected using the RWH mechanism at these blocks will, however, not be used for drinking. The varsity is planning on extending the initiative to every block on Manasagangothri.
 
 A few years ago, Mysuru City Coroporation (MCC) mandated installation of RWH systems in all properties with an area larger than or equal to 2,400sqft. However, a lukewarm response from property owners to the initiative forced MCC to shelve the rule, and the civic body was forced to abandon the project.
 
 However, the decision of UoM to install the system at the Manasagangothri campus has brought the issue back into public domain. Buildings on the varsity’s postgraduate campus that have a wide rooftop will be used for installation of RWH systems.
 
 Shankara, an executive engineer attached to the varsity, told TOI that UoM came up with the initiative three months ago. “This will be a pilot project, and if it succeeds, we will extend it to the entire campus,” he added.
 
 Elaborating on the method involved, Shankara said, “Rainwater is stored in a container, and the water will then be lifted to the overhead tank using a motor. The water stored thus will be used for cleaning purposes. This will prompt many students and visitors to come to the campus.”
 
 The university administration is hoping that both the students and faculty members can use rainwater for cleaning and other needs from April.
 
 Pointing out that this was the first initiative the varsity was undertaking towards saving water, Shankara added, “We have allocated Rs 48 lakh for the project. We floated several tenders inviting private players for the project. There are several buildings spread across the campus that extends over more than 200 acres. Until now, the rainwater at the campus was allowed to run aground.”
 
 
