GANDHINAGAR: In a written reply given in the Rajya Sabha, Maneka Gandhi, Union women and child development minister tabled data from National Family Health Survey ( ) that shows Gujarat is among the only nine states in India where malnutrition is higher than the national average.

 The Union minister said, “The states/UTs that need special attention to address the problem of malnutrition are those having higher level of malnutrition as compared to the national average.”
 
  Her reply pointed out, “According to NFHS-4, the states/UTs with prevalence of underweight among children under 5 years which is more than the national average of 35.7% are Jharkhand, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and  .”
 
 Gandhi said, “The status of malnutrition in the country is reflected in the data captured by the NFHS conducted periodically by the ministry of health and family welfare.”
 
 Speaking on steps taken by the Centre to address the issue of malnutrition, Gandhi said, “Provision of enhanced cost norms for supplementary nutrition has been made for severely malnourished children.”
 
 She said, “The government has launched POSHAN Abhiyaan for improving the nutritional indicators among children, pregnant women and lactating mothers in the country.
 
 Shedding more light on the POSHAN Abhiyaan ( ), Gandhi said, “The programme is being rolled out in a phased manner. It will be implemented in 315 districts with high prevalence of malnutrition in 2017-18, 235 districts in 2018-19 and remaining districts in 2019-20.”
 
 The aim of the POSHAN Abhiyaan is to reduce stunting in children (0-6 years), reduce undernutrition in children (0-6 years) reduce anaemia in children (06-59 months) and in women and adolescent girls, and reduce low birth weight (LBW), said Gandhi.
 
 The Union minister said the main features of the POSHAN Abhiyaan include ensuring convergence with various programmes; incentivizing states/ UTs for achieving goals; IT enabled Real Time Monitoring (ICT-RTM); Evaluation; weighing efficiency and making nutrition visible; community mobilization awareness advocacy; IEC, Jan Andolan to educate the people on nutritional aspects. She also said that the mission will use online course on nutrition for children, nutrition message from folk songs and songs on WASH, sending messages on nutrition; strengthening human resource; and growth monitoring.
 
 Vibhavari Dave, minister of state (MoS), women and child development, Gujarat, when contacted said: “The state government is concerned about the malnutrition issue. We are following all guidelines of the government of India. The state government is working upon a new plan to reduce malnutrition level in the state.’’
 
 
