CHANDIGARH: Two years after a scam in the registration of high-end cars on forged invoices was unearthed, the UT vigilance department on Monday arrested two middlemen in the case. Sukhraj Katewa, DSP, vigilance, UT, said the accused have been identified as  , 32, a resident of Sector 38, and  , a resident of Banur. 

 The DSP said the two accused had submitted two files in the RLA for registration on fake invoices. However, the accused said they got the file from one Kamal to submit in the RLA and had not met the owners of the cars. A local court on Tuesday sent the two accused in police remand.
 
 
  
 
 The vigilance department had arrested earlier arrested four persons, including contractual employees of   (RLA), in the case. A BMW and Mercedes car of businessmen of Delhi and Karnal registered on fake invoices showing lesser value of car in order to pay less registration fee. 
 
 Katewa said the department was also investigating the licences of those returned from their respective addresses as the person was not residing there. The vigilance suspects a racket to get outsiders licences from Chandigarh RLA is still active in the city. "This so because when RLA dispatched licences on these addresses, they were returned as undelivered. Such kind of licences must be on fake addresses," the DSP said. The vigilance had sought 130 files for their investigation. They have been provided 60 files so far. 
 
 The FIR was registered in January 2016. The vigilance department had arrested Vinod Kumar, an RLA employee, Kamaljeet, Hitesh and  , all middlemen. Vinod was deputed as a data entry operator at the RLA office in Industrial Area, Phase I.
 
 The accused used to prepare forged documents like invoices of luxury cars and showed lesser value to save taxes at the time of registration of cars at the RLA. The accused had also used fake documents to get registration of cars from outside the city. During investigation, it had come to light that the accused had get registered eight high-end cars on one address in Sector 26.
 
 
