CHENNAI: Making it clear that courts can step in, to protect the environment, whenever the state has failed in its duty enshrined under Article 48 A and 51 A of the Constitution, the Madras high court on Friday refused to lift the ban on river sand mining in  .

 Article 48A says, the state shall endeavour to protect and improve the environment and to safeguard the forests and wildlife of the country. Whereas, Article 51A speaks about the fundamental duties of every citizen to protect and improve the natural environment including forests, lakes, rivers and wildlife, and to have compassion for living creatures.
 
 A division bench of Justices   and T Krishnavalli passed the order while dismissing an appeal moved by the Tamil Nadu government seeking to set aside the order of a single judge dated November 29, 2017. The single judge had directed the government to stop all sand quarrying and mining activities within six months and prohibited it from opening any sand quarries in the future.
 
 Assailing the order, the advocate general   for the state vociferously contended that the direction of the single judge is in the nature of legislating laws, which could not be issued and it would amount to transgression into the powers of legislature and making the application of separation of powers redundant.
 
  The bench citing several   orders, said, “It is clear that the courts have stepped in to protect the environment by curbing mining activity, whenever the state has failed in its duty under Article 48 A and 51 A.” Also, from the various reports, it is evident that the directions and the orders of the Apex Court and this court have been violated and illegal mining activity has not been curbed and allowed to continue beyond permissible limits, resultantly, causing irreparable damage to the ecology.
 
 If the ecology is not protected, there is no doubt that it will endanger the very existence of human life and we might not even have a future generation. Therefore, as a custodian of the fundamental rights and the constitutional rights, it is the duty of this court to ensure that environment is protected and is not subjected to degradation, when the authorities have failed, the judges added.
 
 
