Mysuru: Although he did not complete his degree,   KS   was a veritable treasure trove of knowledge on agriculture, said general secretary of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) Badagalapura Nagendra here on Thursday.

 Progressive organisations in the city, in association with the KRRS and Hasiru Sene, held a condolence meet to recall the contributions of the recently deceased farmer leader and MLA at Town Hall.
 
 “Puttannaiah was a humanist, who loved his land. He showered love on all flora and fauna. He delivered the address in the Vidhana Soudha on the expenses involved in raising cattle. Along with ND Sundaresh and MD Nanjundaiah, Puttanaiah pioneered the farmers’ movement in the state,” said Nagendra.
 
 Pointing to the influence of Kuvempu in the late leader’s life, Nagendra said, “Through many of his movements, he spread Kuvempu’s concept of Mantra Mangalya. Puttannaiah strived for the betterment of farmers.”
 
 Former director of the department of sports and physical education Krishna reminded the audience that Puttannaiah had been an athlete. “Without training or any preparation, Puttannaiah could sprint 100m in 11 seconds. He was the one who initiated the annual sports tournament at Kyatahanahalli in Mandya. From 1970 to 2018, he adopted around 50 students, who he provided education and gave them training in sports,” said Krishna, urging the government to name the sports ground at Vijayanagar in Puttannaiah’s honour.
 
 On the other hand, activist   pointed to the transformation that the coming together of KRRS and the Dalit Sangha had effected once in Karnataka. “A most fitting tribute to Puttannaiah would be for like-minded people to come under one umbrella to fight communalism,” he said.
 
 Rationalist and writer Prof. KS Bhagawan drew attention to Puuttannaiah’s deep understanding of the problems of farmers, which motivated his fight to provide them a better life. “He worked for all classes of the society. Puttannaiah was against concepts such as untouchablilty and superstitions. A statue of Puttannaiah has to be installed so that the younger generation imbibe his values,” he said.
 
 Members of Jana Sangrama Parishat, Swaraj India, Communist Party of India, Dalit Sangharsha Samithi, Nirantara, Kannada Kriya Samiti, Samajwadi Adhyayana Kendra were among those who participated in the condolence meet.
 
 Farmer leader Chukki Nanjundaswamy, and former director of Rangayana H Janardhan, and retired professor Shabbir Mustaza, activist Stanley and Dr Vasu were in attendance.
 
 
