PORVORIM: Town and country planning ( ) minister Vijai Sardesai, on Wednesday, said the government intends to scrap all Outline Development Plans (ODPs) that were either finalised or were in the process of being finalised, except for the Margao  , which is yet to be drafted.   said some ODPs had been drafted without following due processes. 

 The ODPs likely to be scrapped are that of  , Vasco, Mapusa and Calangute-Candolim.
 
 “I had given a commitment (of re-examining issues, following objections raised by members) in the House in this regard,” Sardesai told reporters at the secretariat. “The Panaji OPD was done without adhering to due processes. It needs to be redone,” he said.
 
 Since the process of forming ODPs started in 2016, they have been a source of controversy with repeated allegations of serious violations in the drafting process. Various petitions were filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa citing various violations.
 
 Sources said the government had notified Panaji, Vasco and Mapusa ODPs by December 2016, before the announcement of the 2017 assembly elections.
 
 The Panaji ODP had introduced a new concept called special settlement (SpS) and special commercial (SpC) with floor area ratio (FAR) of 200 and 300, respectively. In the special settlement, 12-storey   on stilts would have come up, sources said, adding that even undersized plots of 500sqm had been granted special settlement/special commercial status, which would have led to high-rise buildings.
 
 The Panaji OPD had also sought to reduce green spaces, especially in Ribandar, and excluded heritage areas on the Mandovi river front from the conservation zone, sources said. Goa Bachao Abhiyan and others had objected to it, stating that the city would lose its heritage character.
 
 Sardesai said that though the Calangute-Candolim ODP was done following due processes, permissions were given on the basis of the draft ODP, which is not permissible. Interestingly, the North Goa Planning and Development Agency (NGPDA), on Wednesday, issued a public notice inviting suggestions and objections in writing during the next 60 days.
 
 Sources said that the Margao ODP, which was done under the chairmanship of Mauvin Godinho (2015-16), was scrapped in 2017. Under the present chairperson Renuka Silva, land use maps have been prepared for Margao and Ponda. Land use maps form the base for preparing an ODP. “The process of preparing the Margao ODP will commence soon,” a source said.
 
 
