BHUBANESWAR:  , a premier institution of the state, is planning to open an international office in the campus premises to look after student and faculty exchange programmes and other inter-university research programmes involving foreign student and faculties.

 
 Soumendra Mohan  , vice chancellor of the university, told TOI that they took the decision after the   ( ) granted autonomy to his university on March 20 this year. Now they will take some new initiatives, including this one, for the growth of the institution. 
 
 After getting autonomy, he said, the university will have the freedom to hire foreign faculty, enroll foreign students, enter into academic collaborations and run open distance learning programmes. 
 
 As the anthropology department of the university is declared as National Resource Centre ( ) by the Union ministry of human resource development, several scholars of the country and abroad are expected to visit the campus and share their experiences with the students. "Keeping all these conditions in mind, we have planned to open an international office of the university. We have already requested the state government to approve the plan," said Patnaik. 
 
 He said these NRCs will prepare online training materials with focus on latest developments in the discipline, new and emerging trends, pedagogical improvements and methodologies for transacting revised curriculum. As the anthropology department of the university has several unique items along with research materials of different tribes, scholars from different countries will come to the university on the coming days. 
 
 University sources said the office will have an officer to handle the programmes and other issues. Around Rs 5 crore will be spent for the project. This office will offer integrated services to help foreign students and partner universities from abroad to efficiently organize their programmes in the university. Memorandum of understanding (MoUs) will be signed between the universities for different courses and exchange programmes. 
 
 This office will coordinate admission process of foreign students to undergraduate and postgraduate courses. It will organise cultural events and orientation programmes.
 
