NAGPUR: Yearning of sant Meerabai for Lord Krishna for whom she left her princely home and moved from one place to another, singing bhajans in His praise, was aptly presented at a programme held at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar, on Wednesday. 

 Maharashtra Chief Minister   and classical singer Chitra Modak shared the dais. 
 
 Geetali Pundkar narrated through songs the life of Meerabai which was full of tribulations, but her devotion to Lord Krishna was unflinching. This was evident in her bhajans like ‘Mharo pranam’, ‘Mero to Giridhar Gopal’, ‘Payo ji maine’, ‘Mayi mere Mohan’, ‘Jago bansiwale’, ‘Main to sawarein rangrachi’, ‘Mai Govind gungana’, ‘Ramnam ras pije’ and many more. 
 
 All through her life, Meerabai faced difficulties and faced the society which was not very appreciative. But that did not deter her from worshipping the Lord.
 
 The songs were rendered beautifully and received repeated applause from the audience. The accompanying artistes too added colour to the show by chipping in with a piece here and there. So was the anchor who kept the audience engaged between song presentation by shedding light on the life of the saint.
 
 The charity programme was part of ‘Save the children’ campaign, organized by Bhausaheb Survey Nagar Mahila Mandal. 
 
 The aim of the programme was to ensure that the society cared for those children who are deprived of basic needs like food, shelter and education. Donations were given by different sections of the society. 
 
 The organizing committee also announced to contribute Rs500 every month to the campaign and help the needy children. 
 
 A small documentary on the work of the NGO was shown that made the people realize how difficult it is to raise funds so that the children could get their fundamental rights. The NGO has a mobile learning centre where children from the slum ares are taught. The initiative by the organization was appreciated by the spectators who wished the very best to children.
 
 (Reporting by Rabiya Ali)
 
 
