The heart muscle is a highly advanced type of tissue, which starts beating when we are in our mother’s womb at 8 weeks of age and stops with our death. The muscle is supplied by blood and it is functioning at peak capacity. Any obstruction to the   causes damage to the pumping heart muscle. Initially in the first six hours the damage is reversible and with the passage of time the damage becomes irreversible.
 
 Let us look at the cause of decreased blood supply and the cause of a  . Presence of  ,   mellitus, excess cholesterol, tobacco use in any form, increasing age, genetic influences cause cholesterol to get deposited in the inner layers of the coronary artery. With time and with lack of treatment the cholesterol build up narrows the artery. This hinders the free passage of blood to the heart muscle. This causes angina that is a feeling of chest heaviness, transmission of the chest discomfort to the left hand and the jaw. One day the thin layer of cells over the cholesterol accumulation ruptures and the flowing liquid blood comes in contact with the cholesterol. This sets off a clotting cascade. Where proteins within the blood form fibres and the red blood and other cells get entrapped in the fibres and form a clot. This clot prevents further passage of blood. The clotting process is very fast and the cessation of blood supply is a rapid process. The heart muscle which is supplied by the blood vessel is cut off from the blood supply. The sooner that the blood supply starts the lesser will be the damage. Any damage that has already started is still reversible and is heals with time. 
 
 If the damaged heart is left alone without corrective procedure for the blood supply the scarred portion acts as a cause of heart failure and also a point of short circuits within the electrical system of the heart - arrhythmias. Both heart failure and arrhythmias are a cause of death. 
  
 Hence in order to not only save a life but to restore the heart to its normal functioning capacity, urgent correction of the blood supply is very essential. So one improves the length of life and also the quality of life by doing the correct treatment with the given time limit of 6 hours. 
 
 The treatment consists of two options: 1. Urgent primary coronary angioplasty. 2. Immediate injection of a clot dissolving medicine followed later by coronary angiography and angioplasty. 
 
 Moral of the story is “Time is muscle”. The more of it is saved the better are the chances of survival and better are the chances of leading a normal life. 
 
 
 
 
 
