PATNA: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has written to the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) to explore the possibility of re-excavation of an ancient 80-pillar hall, buried under the soil for over a decade at the   in Patna.

 According to ASI records, the hall has been variously assigned as the palace of Emperor Ashoka, audience hall, throne room of the Mauryas, a pleasure hall or the conference hall for the third Buddhist Council held in ancient Pataliputra during the reign of Ashoka.
 
 Owing to water stagnation in the vicinity, the hall was buried beneath a layer of sand for its preservation by the ASI’s Patna circle in 2002. The ASI authorities now want the CGWB to examine if the buried pillars can be re-exposed.
 
 ASI’s Patna circle superintending archaeologist D N Sinha told this reporter on Wednesday their letter to the CGWB also inquired about a solution to the problem of water stagnation around the area.
 
 “We also intend to take the help of IITs for finding a mechanism to prevent water stagnation in and around the Kumhrar park,” Sinha said.
 
 Recalling the circumstances that prompted the ASI to bury the hall, Sinha said the drainage network of the area was choked because of haphazard construction of buildings. “Many attempts were made to drain out the water with the help of different techniques, but it resurfaced. In the year 2002, a committee of experts decided to fill the area with sand,” he said.
 
 Explaining this method of preservation, Sinha said, “The pillars have been covered with fine grained sand at the bottom and coarse grained sand at the upper level. Care has been taken to use quality sand grains so that the shine of the pillars is not harmed.”
 
 As per ASI records, the hall first came to light in 1912-15 during an excavation carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India, established by the Britishers, with funds donated by the Tatas. Traces of 72 pillars were found during this excavation.
 
 Eight more pillars of the hall and four additional ones belonging to the entrance or porch were exposed during an excavation carried out at the site in 1951-55 by city-based K P Jayaswal Research Institute. Since then it is popularly referred as the ‘Eighty-pillar Hall’.
 
 
