NEW DELHI: The success of
  in defeating an invincible-looking BJP in UP by-elections may trigger an inexorable move towards the politics of ‘grand alliance’ — regional parties along with   joining hands to thwart a common enemy.

 
 Not only was a partnership between dalit czarina
  considered impossible, it was felt that even in the event of their joining hands, their mutually antagonistic support base would not consolidate behind a common candidate.
 
 Despite a terribly delayed announcement of support for SP, BSP’s success in ensuring transfer of its votes to the   platform has stunned political practitioners and observers alike, chief minister   included. It is sure to send anti-BJP parties across states in search of alliances, especially for LS polls in which the Modi factor will be pronounced. The big suspense is about the position Congress will have in any anti-BJP bloc, with murmurs about its acceptability as leader. While Sonia Gandhi and Rahul have both urged state-level rivals to rise above local interests and join hands in Delhi politics, Congress’s own position will depend on how far it can re-establish itself as the pre-eminent political force — the stable core around which regional players can coalesce. For that, it will have to win big in coming state polls like Karnataka, MP, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh. The UP experiment, though not sealed beyond the bypolls yet, reopens the issue in West Bengal where Congress and Left have been seeking a partnership which is opposed by the Prakash Karat faction of CPM.
 
 Could PDP break its pact with BJP and join hands with National Conference in the name of larger interest of their vote base — an idea floated by the NC after the assembly results. Bihar has a pact between RJD and Congress with a new entrant in Mahadalit leader Jeetan Ram Manjhi. JMM has already finalised a deal with Congress in Jharkhand while JVM chief Babulal Marandi too attended the dinner for opposition parties hosted by Sonia on Tuesday. Tamil Nadu has a history of rainbow alliances but the entry of new players in Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan has thrown new imponderables in the mix, especially with Rajinikanth seen as a likely BJP ally.
 
 For political insiders, the big suspense is Odisha. With BJP announcing ambitious plans for the state, there are queries if a drastically weakened Congress could persuade BJD for a tie-up. The belief is the saffron party would pose a big challenge to Naveen Patnaik. Even before the idea of “grand alliance” takes shape, jostling has erupted for the leadership slot. Independent of Congress’s bid to stitch a bloc, TMC leader Mamata Banerjee has sought to form a “federal front” by talking to regional parties. However, there is a belief that despite signs of dissonance, the parallel attempts would culminate in a single front to take on the BJP.
 
 
