 DEHRADUN: The state government has formed a six-member committee to track down each of the 697 doctors who received subsidized education in government medical colleges in the state but violated their bond by not serving for some years in the health department. The government will send the list of ‘missing’ doctors to the   (MCI).
  
  “We will approach the MCI with a request to cancel registration of such doctors who at the very onset of their career are playing around with the law,” said Dr Ashutosh Sayana, director,   medical education department.
  
  In December, notices were issued to 783 doctors who graduated from   and Srinagar government medical colleges in the state since 2003. Of those served notices, 558 had passed out from Veer Chandra Garhwali Government Medical College and Hospital, Srinagar, and 225 were from Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College and Hospital, Haldwani.
  
  However, only 86 doctors have since then joined the health department. Additionally, 114 doctors replied to the notice with medical certificates and No Objection Certificates (NOC) from the health department sanctioning their leaves. A handful of doctors had earlier approached the high court seeking a stay on the proceedings initiated by the state government against them.
  
  The state government has now tasked the committee members, two of whom are of the rank of under secretary and deputy secretary, to identify all missing doctors. The members will be visiting Veer Chandra Garhwali Government Medical College and Hospital, Srinagar, and Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College and Hospital, Haldwani, to track the details and whereabouts of these doctors.
  
  A list of names would be prepared and legal notices sent again to the offenders and copies of the same would be sent to the MCI and state councils.
  
  Students in Uttarakhand’s government medical colleges are provided subsidized education after singing a bond that they would work with the health department for a specific number of years. The penalty fee for not serving in the state is Rs 30 lakh for postgraduate students and Rs 15 lakh for MBBS students.
