MUMBAI: It’s no surprise that the country’s   gets the largest applications at the   for commerce—and these numbers continue to rise. Figures from   indicate a faster growth in applications for   over the past two years, a trend that’s expected to hold in the forthcoming admission season on account of their orientation towards  .

  with various options including banking, finance and accounting attracted over five lakh applicants in the just concluded academic year, far and above the numbers garnered in the arts and  .
 
 BMS too has steadily picked up in popularity with 1.7 lakh candidates applying to join the management programme in 2017-18. BMS, in fact, had more applicants than BA and BSc.
 
 B B Sharma, principal of Vaze Kelkar College, recalled that three years ago when he started BMS on his campus, he was forced to start an extra division to handle the rush of students.
 
 “This being a management course with so many specialisations we have seen that many students are pulled towards this course,” said Sharma. “Also, most students get picked up in campus interviews post graduation and after gaining some experience, they enroll for an MBA course.”
 
 Colleges across the city, however, say demand for B.Com with a specialization in accounting and finance tops everything. In fact, if one compared total applications to seats available, B.Com (accounting and finance) would emerge as the number one choice. 
 
 “In a city like Mumbai, a graduate of this course gets a job easily. Also, the subject is very scoring,” said former commerce dean Madhu Nair. Principals attribute the demand for this course to its curriculum design, which provides a lot of practical elements. 
 
 Some of the top colleges that saw the largest pool of applicants for this course were Mithibai, K J Somaiya, SK Somaiya, HR College and Jai Hind. 
 
 K J Somaiya received 7,916 B.Com applications, followed by Mithibai which received 6,459, SK Somaiya (5,894) and HR College 5,825 applications. Again for BMS, the largest number of applications went to Mithibai, Jai Hind, K J Somaiya, HR College, KC College and NM College. 
 
 In the order of preference, vanilla BSc came next. And BSc with Information Technology followed with 93,406 applications. 
 
 “While biotechnology is picking up, BSc (IT)’s demand has not fallen since the course started. A lot of those who don’t want to pay very high fees for engineering or join a little known college turn to BSc (IT) and most colleges run this course to full capacity,” said former pro-vice chancellor and principal of Birla College Naresh Chandra. 
 
 Principals reckon that placements are also what attract students to this course. “Several IT firms that recruit in large numbers pick BSc (IT) graduates and those who are good learn quickly on the job and rise up to the level of other engineers,” he added.
 
 
