KOCHI: The ‘state centre for factionalism’ – which had been active in the past – does not exist now, said   after being re-elected as CPM state secretary for a second, consecutive term.   recalled the past factional feuds and how the party quelled it with the active help of politburo. “The state conference held in Alappuzha took some constructive steps to end factionalism. Now, all district committees are free from factionalism,” he said.

 The 87-member state committee, elected by the state conference on Sunday, is homogenous both in terms of ideology and micro political line. All of them endorse the leadership of Pinarayi Vijayan and Balakrishnan. Despite becoming the chief minister, Vijayan still has absolute control over the party. District conferences were conducted in such a way that anybody who opposed Vijayan’s line was not included in the committees. New state committee members were also picked in such a manner that none of them are likely to oppose the politics of Kannur lobby in future. The exclusion of CK Sadasivan and Pirappancode Murali from the state committee was part of the final strategy to end factionalism. Both leaders were staunch VS Achuthanandan loyalists and had fought for his policies even when they were sure that their line would never succeed.
 
 Both leaders were excluded citing ill health. But, at least three leaders, who owe allegiance to Pinarayi Vijayan, were included in the committee despite health issues. When Murali was ousted, the natural choice would have been a leader from Thiruvananthapuram for balancing regional commitment. But, the front-runner was C  , another person from the notorious VS-brigade. In the end, the post was gifted to AN Shamseer, who took a calculated risk and targeted  . A young leader from  , who almost got a berth in the state committee, lost it in the last minute. He foolishly criticized Balakrishnan by citing the controversies surrounding his family members. Sources said he asked at the conference whether rectification document was only applicable to leaders and not their family.
 
 Balakrishnan, who has at his command a battalion on non-revolting leaders, is enjoying an enviable as well as precarious position. While a united leadership can be effectively used to streamline the 45-member action plan devised by the state conference and ultimately help to realise his dream of winning 50% vote base in Kerala, the homogenous character of the leadership will end the chances of selfcriticism. If the appraisal report of the government, presented at the conference is an indication, the process of self-criticism has already stopped in the party. The report only makes cosmetic criticism against ministers though there were numerous serious issues that needed the party’s correctional measures.
 
 The next three years will bring out the pros and cons of the complete absence of factionalism. If Balakrishnan can facilitate a forum for constructive criticism within the state committee while enjoying the benefit of a united state committee, the party will really benefit from it.
 
