AJMER: The Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan (RBSE) will lay more emphasis on moral education. The board also pointed out that financial help and award is also important to encourage meritorious students.

 
 The board on Thursday conducted convocation to felicitate meritorious students of 2017 board examinations. To set an example in Rajasthan, Shiksha Ratan Award was given to Dr   of Government Senior Secondary School, Udaipur for her exemplary services in the field of school education. The award carried a cash prize of Rs 1lakh and a citation.
 
 Sonal Sukhwal of Government Senior Secondary School, Lapsiya in   district was given Vidyarthi Khel Ratan award. She was given Rs 50,000 cash and a memento. Sixteen gold and 263 silver medals were given to meritorious students who had excelled in board’s secondary and senior secondary examinations held in 2016 and 2017. Rajiv Singh Naruka (science), Kriti Verma (commerce),   and Lalit Patidar (humanities) were given gold medals for 2017 senior secondary examination of the board.
 
 Government Secondary School, Jadan in Pali district was adjudged the best school at state level for the year 2016.
 
 While Government Secondary School of Dabi village in Bundi was declared as best school in the state for 2016 session.
 
 The Dabi school won the award for third time in a row. The best school award carried a cash prize of Rs 50,000 and a citation.
 
 Speaking on the occasion home minister Gulab Chand Kataria asked students to give importance to character building rather than running after materialistic life. “Money is important in life but then character is of more value,” said Kataria in his address.
 
 Education minister Vasudev Devnani said, “Rajasthan has achieved unprecedented success, we were at the 26th rank in the country when the present government took over. Rajasthan had climbed 24 steps since then and today our state is on second position,” said Devnani. Board chairman BL Choudhary said that the board has set up an example to provide free and fair examinations.
 
 
