PUNE:   couldn't have been more honest about his reasons for starting the new season in India. 

 This is where he fancies his chances more.
 
 "Why I choose to come to India is because I feel like I need to play more tournaments, and I have to choose where I can play more matches," the 24-year-old Czech said after a practice session at the  .
 
 "I haven't won many matches on hard court (recently) and I try to determine possibly the biggest chance I have. It's very important to start the season well, and this is where I see my biggest chance."
 
 Vesely's pragmatic approach is understandable considering that he has had setbacks in 2017 with a variety of injuries - ankle, neck, hip - and his ranking has slipped from a career-best 35 to 62.
 
 For someone who was the 2011 Australian Open junior champion in both singles and doubles, the junior world No. 1 then, and named ATP Star of Tomorrow in 2013 after finishing the season as the youngest top-100 player, Vesely has struggled to make an impact at the highest level.
 
 Not surprisingly, the mention of his stunning victory over  , in the third round of   when the Serb was the world No. 1 in 2016, doesn't evoke much enthusiasm.
 
 "I have had some good victories. It's a nice feeling. Beating him was the best win of my career because he didn't lose many matches at that time," he said.
 
 "It was an amazing day for me, but it's all history. Hopefully I can play good enough more in the future and play these guys more.
 
 "There have been expectations of me in the past, both mine and others, and I have not fulfilled them … I know I can beat the best when I am playing at my best. Unfortunately I have not been able to play at my best."
 
 The 6-foot 6-inch southpaw acknowledged there was room for improvement in his game on hard court.
 
 "On clay, it feels much, much easier. I get the ball slow back and it gives me time to prepare for my shots," Vesely said. 
 
 "But I also reached the third round of US Open and won in Auckland (both in 2015), so it's not like I don't know how to play on hard. 
 
 "But I feel a little uncomfortable, a little bit more stressed. Maybe that's why all the ups and downs. I need to try to find my game which works on hard court."
 
 Many Indians fade out after showing promise in the junior circuit. Vesely said mental confidence and physical fitness were two factors key to successful transition.
 
 "It requires a lot of work, a lot of fighting spirit. Transition is tough because you need to win many, many matches in Futures and Challengers and that's not easy for all the youngsters," he said.
 
 "I was lucky to do it in short time, but I went to a position of 35 (in world ranking) three years ago almost and from that point it has been a bit of a struggle to go further up.
 
 "Getting to the   level is about winning a lot of matches, the ability to play in difficult moments your best shots. Then when you reach 50-60 in rankings, you must be physically ready, which gives you the mental confidence.
 
 "To be a top player in tennis, the physical aspect makes the biggest difference."
 
