THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   cannot be rescued unless mechanisation is undertaken, observes the performance budget of the   for the  . The performance budget document tabled in the assembly along with the  , however, says existence of a large number of fragmented holdings is a major hurdle in the path of mechanisation. Finance minister  , in the budget, has announced a subsidy scheme to promote mechanisation.

 The performance budget concludes that group farming initiatives introduced in the last few years were not successful but lauded the organic farming initiative of the government that is striving to keep the food produce poison-free. “However, there are still some problems such as the comparatively lower yield in the initial stages of the scheme implementation, very high prices of organic inputs and ineffectiveness of organic pesticides,” the document said.
 
 It said the agriculture department should take the initiative to provide inputs like effective organic pesticides and manures in sufficient quantity at affordable rates. The initiatives like organic farming, terrace farming and farming in schools will help the state to achieve self-sufficiency in vegetable production soon, the report said.
 
 It identified the shrinking of paddy land and arable land as a major reason for the slump in agriculture productivity and recommended the government to make existing norms stringent to arresting the fast conversion of agricultural land. The report criticises agencies such as Horticorp and VFPCK for not doing sufficient work to support farmers in marketing their produce. It suggests that agriculture department should form a separate wing for professionally marketing agriculture produce in the state.
 
 “In the new contest, the department may think of production-cumbonus instead of subsidy. A well planned insurance coverage may also be introduced for various crops,” the report said.
 
 For assessing the effectiveness of various schemes introduced in the agriculture sector, finance department officials visited 12 Krishi Bhavans and interacted with groups of farmers in all these places.
 
 
