NEW DELHI:   had big plans for his birthday a fortnight away. He confided in friends that on the special occasion, he would get engaged to the girl he wanted to marry. The opposition to the girl’s family to the relationship had forced him to keep it a hush-hush affair. Saxena’s own relatives claimed to have been unaware of the relationship till his   on Thursday.

 Friends said on Friday that Saxena presumed his family would also oppose any plans of marriage to the girl since she belonged to another  . “He had possibly not told his parents about her, fearing rejection,” said Sanchit, Saxena’s childhood friend.
 
 The girl’s family had got wind of the affair and her uncle had warned Saxena last year not to pursue the girl. Since then, the two had been secretly meeting at metro stations and malls. The 23-year-old youth had graduated from an open college at Delhi University and had taken up photography as a profession. From a studio near N Block, Raghubeer Nagar in west Delhi, he had set himself up as a  .
 
 His aunt, Anita Rani, said, “It is unlikely he would hide his relationship from his father, with whom he shared everything. Many of the girls in the locality were his friends and she too might have been just another pal.”
 
 Saxena had met the girl through a common friend. She lived a few houses away in A Block. When the girl’s mother, who runs two beauty parlours, came to know about the affair she had barred her from meeting Saxena. The girl’s family also shifted to another block.
 
 “We thought the two had stopped seeing each other, but neighbours told us they continued to meet secretly,” the mother told the cops during interrogation. The neighbours reported that the girl’s family were not friendly with neighbours and had recently accused another youth of stalking their daughter.
 
 Yashpal, the youth’s father, used to work as a peon with a private company and had taken voluntary retirement. “My son took care of both his mother and me after setting up his photography business. We are now left without a son and a source of income,” he sobbed, holding desperately to the young man’s blood-stained shirt. 
 
 
