Kolkata: Bengal has a queue at its doorstep. The country’s biggest producer of   has been requested by several states — hit by a production shortage — to provide them with this staple, making this the first time ever that Bengal will provide rice at the states’ request.

 At least one of these states is BJP-ruled Jharkhand, while two other states are Left-ruled Kerala and AIADMK-ruled Tamil Nadu. Sources said one more BJP-ruled north Indian state is also in the queue.
 
 Bengal produces over 2.5 crore tonnes of paddy, which translates to 1.6 crore tonnes of rice. This is the country’s highest, said state finance secretary H K Dwivedi. He confirmed that that the three states had formally requested Bengal with an offer to buy its surplus rice. On an average, 23 lakh to 30 lakh tonnes of rice are procured by the government per fiscal. “This fiscal, so far, 52 lakh tonnes of rice have been procured, which in itself is a great achievement,” he added. 
 
 TOI had reported on January 28 that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had written to Bengal about supplying rice to some states. 
 
 Pradeep Mazumdar, the agriculture adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, told TOI that this was the first time that the states had asked Bengal to supply rice. Dwivedi and Mazumdar were attending the ‘State Credit Seminar 2018-19’, organised by Nabard. “This is a good beginning,” said Mazumder. “In the last two years, too, we were keen on supplying rice to other states so that we could keep prices at a level. But the Centre and FCI were not very keen on it,” he added. 
 
 According to Mazumdar, other states are now buying rice from Bengal and this vindicates Banerjee’s agricultural policy. He pointed out that the Centre and rice-deficit states mainly procure rice from Punjab, Haryana and Telangana. “There was some unorganized rice export to Bangladesh and other countries after rice came under Open General Licence (OGL) in 2012. Now, there are no export restrictions,” he added.
 
 Mazumdar said Bengal has requested RBI and Nabard to fix the agri credit target at Rs 70,000 crore for the next fiscal. “We want Rs 1,00,000 credit per farmer. Considering 70 lakh registered farmers, it should be Rs 70,000 crore,” he added. The credit projection for agriculture in 2018-19 is Rs 63,196 crore, whereas it was Rs 53,000 crore in 2017-18. However, so far, only Rs 34,000 crore could be achieved. 
 
 Dwivedi also pointed out that though the macro-economic scenario in agriculture in the country as a whole was dismal, Bengal stood out. He said the state’s warehousing capacity had gone up from 62,000 tonnes to 6.2 lakh tonnes. “More than 3.5 lakh tonnes of warehousing capacity will be added this year,” he added.
 
 
