CHANDIGARH: Holi is around and animal lovers are out in markets, schools and residential areas to create awareness about protecting stray dogs and pets from the festival colours, sweets, and intoxicants (bhang).

 All   are toxic for the animals. “Colours (herbal or any other) get off the human skin easily but burn the animal hide,” said animal rights activists   of Panchkula. “If an animal inhales the powered colour, it might get nasal irritation, respiratory allergies, or infections,” she said. “Puppies and adult dogs with a thin coat have the harsh reaction to these substances. Dry colour is as bad as wet and your pet must be kept away from both. The lead content in these colours could accumulate as poison inside the dogs if they lick it off their coat.”
 
 Dogs get severe rashes because of colours, she claims. “Do not use kerosene oil or hair oil to rub the colour off their coat. Also, avoid offering them festival sweets.”   has got into action, pasting posters and visiting schools to spread awareness. “Last Holi, the number of cases where the colours had harmed the animal skin had dropped a lot from previous years but still had not come to zero,” said Meenakshi. “This year, we are going into more schools to tell students why they should avoid throwing colours on animals and stop the people who are doing it.”
 
 Not only colours but also festival intoxicants such as bhang (edible preparation of cannabis) harm the animals. “Feeding dogs sweets and bhang can put their life in danger,”   said. “Some of the Holi colours are toxic for humans and animals alike. But while we will take a bath within two hours, the poor animals will remain covered in the dust for weeks. They will try to remove the color by licking it off, but only ingest the toxins, which will cause poisoning,” said Furever Friends founder Vikas Luthra.
 
 He claims that the colours labelled organic also contain toxins. “Most organic colours on the market are spurious. Throwing gulaal or a bucket of water on a street dog is equivalent to an attempt to murder,” Luthra said.  , his group, Furever Friends, will run a free ambulance service for injured animals.
 
