LUDHIANA: Showing resentment against the attack on MC team in Giaspura when they had gone there to vacate the illegally occupied flats, members of Municipal Employees Sangharsh Committee gave an ultimatum and notice to MC commissioner for conducting a gate rally on Tuesday at Zone D office. The employees not only condemned the attacks on government employees on duty, but also demanded proper safety arrangements from authorities before conducting such drives.

 MC commissioner   listened to the employees union members on Friday at MC office. The employees rued that one executive engineer Karamjit Singh — who is near his retirement — was allegedly thrashed badly by a mob, which even tried to kill him. They said employees were unable to perform their duties due to such protestors and political pressure created by leaders. Union chairman Ashwani Sahota said employees were furious after this incident, because now it has become a habit of encroachers to attack public servants performing their duties. He said they would stop work for two hours on Tuesday, and show their resentment.
 
 Meanwhile, Jaskiran Singh said he had received the memorandum from employees, and the next time, they would ensure adequate police force for any kind of demolition drive. He said he even talked to the police commissioner over this issue, and he has ensured to provide police force for such drives in the future. Notably, the MC team was allegedly attacked by protestors in Giaspura after a 19-year-old boy Sunny got electrocuted and fell down from a pole. MC’s executive engineer from the Buildings and Roads (B&R) department Karamjit Singh was manhandled and attacked by protestors on Thursday during this drive.
 
 
 
 
 The recent incident in Kasauli where one assistant town planner (ATP) was shot dead by a hotel owner, while one employee of Himachal Pradesh Public Works Department (PWD) died after a few days during a demolition drive has also left an impact on MC officials. One of the officials claimed there was total chaos in the country, where the public had no fear of law and order, and government employees were attacked and killed. He said there should be proper police force and planning before conducting any demolition drive. 
 
 
 
 Services will remain suspended at A, B, C, and D zones of MC, and there will be no work related to birth and death certificates, TS-1 certificates, property tax payment, water and sewerage dues, application for new water supply and sewerage connections, licences, building plan approval, etc. Employees will do a gate rally from 10am to 12noon, and employees will return to work after lunch. So, residents should visit MC offices either after lunch, or the next day. 
 
 
