KANNUR: The local residents of Ramanthali in the district are planning to revive their campaign against the sewage treatment plant ( ) at the   (INA),  , as their agitation has turned one year on January 23, but the issue is not yet solved. However, the authorities said there is no need for any worry and the enhancement work of the plant is progressing.

 Though the INA authorities had promised to build new STP and also repair the pipes of the existing pipeline, the promises are yet to be kept and there is huge delay on their part, alleged Janakeeya Aarogya Samrakshana Samithi (JASS), the action committee formed against the STP, after the water in their wells got contaminated, apparently due to the waste effluent from the plant.
 
 The samithi had held a 90-day sit-in at the gate of the INA following which the authorities called them for a meeting and also the State government instituted an expert committee, which made a few recommendations, as per which they agreed to improve the existing plant and also build a new one.
 
 Though the authorities had said in May 2017 the decentralization of the STP would be undertaken within six to eight months and the waste effluent from the laundry, kitchen, civilian employees residential area and the sailors’ residential areas would be treated separately in a decentralized way, the work has not been done, alleged the residents.
 
 “Even after one year of the agitation there is no solution to our sufferings,” said JASS convener  . The residents said the existing plant got the clearance from the Kerala State Pollution Control Board despite the complaints.
 
 
 
 However, the INA authorities said there is no ground in the concern and the STP plant got the   clearance after it was found that it met all the requirements. Still, considering the anxiety of the people, the pipe of the plant is being replaced by spending Rs 44 lakh and also other repair works and technical enhancement are on, which is expected to cost Rs one crore, said a spokesperson from the INA.
 
 Also the   has already given administrative sanction for a new STP with an expense of Rs two crore and the work would begin soon. Once this is completed, the use of the existing plant will be reduced by 75 percent and also the new plant is far away from the residential area, said the INA authorities.
 
