LUCKNOW: The holiday calendar released by the basic education department on Monday created a furore when Krishna Janmashtami was found missing from the list. Although several other holidays, too, didn’t find mention in the calendar, it was Janmashtami holiday which attracted maximum attention. On Tuesday evening, however, the department clarified that Janmashtami holiday was very much part of the calendar and was omitted due to a typographical error.

 Issuing a circular to basic education officials of all 75 districts in UP, basic education department secretary Sanjay Sinha told TOI: “The error has been rectified. Schools run by the board will remain closed for   festival falling on September 3 this year.’’ Among other days mentioned in the list when schools will be closed are - BR Ambedkar’s birth anniversary and Khwaja Garib Nawaj Urs, both falling on April 14, Maharishi   on October 24, Chhath Puja on November 13 and Chaudhary Charan Singh’s Jayanti on November 23. All these holidays were scrapped by the UP government last year.
 
 List shows holiday on Jan 31 for Ravidas Jayanti
 
 Interestingly, the list again shows holiday on January 31 for Ravidas Jayanti. On January 29, principal secretary to UP's chief minister, SP Goel, instructed all education departments - basic , secondary, higher, medical, agriculture, technical and vocational - to remain open on January 31 for Ravidas Jayanti and celebrate the day by holding discussion on the saint’s life and work. The order made it compulsory for teacher and students to attend the programme.
 
 On this, Sinha said, “This is a matter of past. The holiday file came later from the camp office.’’ Last month, the department issued an order shutting schools on Karpoori Thakur birth anniversary on January 24. This came after the Yogi government scrapped 15 holidays, most of them observed on birth or death anniversaries of wellknown personalities or historical figures. While the list of 15 holidays cancelled by the UP cabinet in April last year included Karpoori Thakur’s birth anniversary, it had no mention of Ravidas Jayanti.
 
