HYDERABAD: In a suspected case of lynching, a 33-year-old auto driver, who was in an inebriated condition and found lying between two lorries, died in a suspicious condition at Jiyapally village near   on Tuesday night. However, Rachakonda police said they are yet to ascertain whether he died due to the alleged thrashing by villagers, suspecting him to be a criminal, or at the hands of his rivals.

 
 With social media-triggered rumours doing the rounds that criminal gangs were on the prowl, villagers might have attacked the drunk auto driver, suspecting him to be a thief. In the last few days days, two persons were killed in separate incidents in Telangana, prompting director-general of police (DGP) M Mahendar Reddy to appeal, second time in the last two days, to citizens not to take law into their hands and instead inform police if they notice strangers moving suspiciously in their neighbourhoods.
 
 Rachakonda police said 33-year-old N Bala Krishna, an auto driver from   village in  , died due to internal injuries on Tuesday night. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC.
 
 Jiyapally villagers told Bibinagar police that around 9.30pm locals found a person, an outsider, lying between two parked lorries. When they questioned him, he initially did not give convincing answers. They also found he was drunk. Amob gathered and the village sarpanch was also called to the location. On persistent questioning, the stranger told the villagers his name, Bala Krishna, and that he was from Koremulla. Immediately, the sarpanch called up his Koremulla counterpart, who confirmed that Bala Kirshna was from their village. After learning about the development, his relative Kumar went to Jiyapally on his two-wheeler to get Bala Krishna back home. However, en route, Bala Krishna died while travelling on the bike. When he was taken to hospital, doctors declared he was brought dead and discovered there were several injuries on his body.
 
 “There are two habitations, Jiyapally village and Jiyapally thanda. Locals from the habitations claim they did not see anyone beating Bala Krishna. Jiyapally villagers claimed they only enquired about his antecedents and they were not even aware that he was injured. On the other hand, Jiyapally thanda inhabitants denied seeing Bala Krishna, but said they heard rumours that some criminal gangs were on the prowl,’’ Bibinagar sub-inspector M Vijay Krishna told 
 .
 
 At 5.30pm on Tuesday, Bala Krishna, who was drunk, hailed an auto to reach Jiyapally village, where he met a relatives and spent an hour with that person and left the location, police said. “Some persons attacked him before 9.30pm. Investigation is on to ascertain their identity,” police added.
 
 
