BENGALURU: “Let children share their ideas with you. If not, the battle is lost,” Indian football captain   said on Saturday. He urged parents to give children freedom to choose their career.

 At an interactive session of Mission Admission higher education expo 2018, Chhetri spoke on “how to shape one’s career based on one’s interest”. The two-day expo, organised by the Times of India, kickstarted on Saturday and witnessed the participation of 45 top educational institutions.
 
 Citing the example of his own upbringing, the footballer said it is natural for youngsters to be confused at this stage. “My parents once asked me what I wanted to do. I first expressed my wish to become like Leander Paes. After a week, I said I wanted to become like  . A fortnight later, I said I would write an entrance exam. But what’s important is that I had the freedom to tell my parents what I wanted to do. Children must speak to their parents and not hide anything from them. I am lucky to have parents who encouraged me to take up sports,” he said. 
 
 On the choices between government and private institutions,  , director,  , said three million students apply for 11,000 seats in IITs. Urging students to make informed choices, he said: “Don’t go to a college because your friends choose that institution. Pursue what you want to,” he said. 
 
 He said students can drop out of courses if they don’t find the subjects interesting after a point of time. “There is a degree called ‘Drop Out’. There are many who have dropped out and have achieved greater heights ,” he said, giving the example of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs.
 
  Prof Jawahar Doreswamy, pro-chancellor,  , said the number of students is increasing, while opportunities are shrinking. “In our institution, we are teaching Internet of Things to architecture and hotel management students, as automation is now a part of all sectors,” he said.
 
 Explaining that attitude is more important than aptitude, Christ (deemed to be university) registrar Prof Anil Joseph Pinto said interviews are a must at the institution for joining courses. 
 
 Kent May, chief of consular services, US consulate general, Chennai, who took part in the panel discussion on overseas education, said: “One in every 6 foreign students in the US is an Indian. Questions asked in the visa interview include the choice of course and university, intent of departure after studies and economic, social and family ties.” 
 
 
