In the latest episode of  ,   takes Ipshita to a mall to shop as their flight to Disneyland is in the evening.

 
  and Iqbal also arrive on the scene as their car halts right behind Parth's. Teni suggests that they should shop from Sarojini or Chandni Chowk as things at the mall are more expensive. Iqbal gets restless waiting for Parth to move his car as he is stuck in line because of him. Parth becomes furious and as he thinks of picking up a fight, Ipshita stops him.
 
 Inside the mall, as Teni and Iqbal look around they pass by Parth and Ipshita. Next, Iqbal tries on groom's clothes and Teni mocks his dressing sense.
 
 Parth and Indu are seen in a nearby shop. Later, Indu leaves for the food court and Ipshita gets irritated on seeing Parth uninterested in the shopping spree. She takes him to a shop and Teni also happens to be there. But she fails to see Parth.
 
 Then, both Teni and Parth go to try clothes in the trial rooms. While they try on clothes, Ipshita and Iqbal share a few words.
 
 From inside the trial room, Parth tells Ipshita that the clothes that she has selected for him are very bright. Teni responds by saying that he is such a strange father that he is complaining about his daughter's clothes selection.
 
 Parth gets startled on hearing Teni's voice and rushes out to catch a glimpse of her. But by the time he gets out, Teni and Iqbal had already left. 
 
 Parth and Ipshita leave the shop and then the latter tells him that she needs a bag from the shop. Ipshita goes to the shop as Parth waits outside. Ipshita likes a bag that Teni had chosen. She has an argument with her and then Ipshita says that she will get her father and then he will buy the entire shop. Ipshita goes out to call Parth but then, much to her dismay, when she returns she finds out that Teni left with the bag that she had selected. Parth tries to console her.
 
 Ipshita insists on looking for Teni to confront her. She drags Parth and then runs after Teni when she spots her. Parth fails to see Teni's face as she walks away with Iqbal. The episode comes to an end and it waits to be seen if they will be able to catch up with Iqbal and Teni.
 
