PUNE: The skeletal-staffed   of the   is fighting blaze in the civic limits with less than 50% of its sanctioned manpower.

 Of the 921 sanctioned posts for the department, only 449 are filled. A total of 472 posts, including some key posts, are vacant.
 
 Two posts each of deputy chief fire officer and divisional fire officer and eight station fire officers are vacant, putting additional burden on the existing employees of the department.
 
  
  
 There are 32 different categories of officers and staff listed under the fire department. Only four categories have full quota of employees. Of them, one post is of chief fire officer and the rest are helper, auto foremen and senior radio technician.
 
 A written reply of the civic administration submitted during the general body meeting gave this information.
 
 The civic administration said some immediate measures had been taken to deal with the situation. About 31 drivers deployed by the Pune Municipal Corporation ( )’s motor vehicle department had been told to work with the fire department. Besides, steps have been initiated to hire helpers on contract for four months to assist the firemen.
 
 A source in PMC said the fire department had been facing shortage of employees for the past few years and the posts should be filled at the earliest. “The PMC limits extended last year with the merger of 11 villages. The civic administration will now have to look after the newly merged areas. It is a challenge for the fire department, already facing shortage of staff,” the source said.
 
 Admitting that the department was short-staffed, chief fire officer   said the issue had repeatedly been referred to the PMC’s general administration department. He said 13 fire stations were working at present in the city and the infrastructure of two more stations was ready. The department could not start the services at these stations yet because of shortage of employees, he said.
 
 The civic administration has put the onus of filling up the vacancies on the state government. The administration said rules and regulations were being drafted by the state government for recruitment through a joint central entrance examination to fill up the posts of the fire department in grade A and B municipal corporations. The PMC can go ahead and fill up the vacant post based on the state government’s draft.
 
 Besides the manpower crunch, narrow alleys often pose stiff challenge before the firefighters. They faced the same hurdle while fighting the fire incident at   nagar slums in Market Yard last week.
 
