HYDERABAD: The groundwater table in Hyderabad has depleted causing concern.   in Secunderabad is the worst affected locality, followed by  , also in Secunderabad. 

 The latest report on the city's groundwater table by Telangana state groundwater department presents a grim scenario. The situation would improve only if the city sees a good monsoon.
 
 The water table in   and Charminar has reached the danger mark. There's a slight depletion in the water table in areas like Ameerpet, Sanjeevareddy Nagar, Erragadda, Khairatabad, and Nampally.
 
 The groundwater department recorded the   in Marredpally by installing two piezometers. 
 
 
 
 
 The water table in Marredpally stood at 9.65 metres below ground level (BGL) in March this year as against 12.85 metres BGL during March 2017. The fall in groundwater table in the locality is 3.20 metres BGL.
 
 In Ameerpet, a busy commercial area, there is a slight fall in the water table. In Erragadda, officials recorded groundwater table at 13.60 metres BGL in March this year, as against 18.23 metres BGL during the same period last year. The fall was steep - 4.63 metres BGL.
 
 Thanks to rainwater percolation measures in the Secretariat, the fall in water table is minimal. The water table stood at 7.02 metres BGL as against 7.77 metres BGL in March last year, the fall being a mere 0.75 metres BGL.
 
 The average fall in groundwater table across Hyderabad district ranged between 0.14 metres BGL to 3.79 metres BGL.“During 2017-18, the city received an excess of 45%rainfall. So, except in some parts of the city, the depletion in groundwater table is not high,” an official in the groundwater department said.
 
 The fall is high in Marredpally as the residents depend mostly on groundwater for daily needs. Only a few areas in Marredpally mandal are covered by tapwater network by Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB).
 
 The water board is supplying tankers to areas where the tap water network is poor. But with demand for water going up thanks to summer, the residents in “grey” water table areas are faced with severe shortage. Illegal drawl of groundwater by private tanker suppliers is also leading to a steep fall in the water table.
 
 Water board officials said property owners should construct rainwater harvest pits to conserve rainwater and recharge the water table during monsoon for use in summer months.ore the onset of monsoon.
 
 The GHMC is also involved in the construction of RWH pits at its parks and open areas too. Another major department, HMDA, is also implementing the plans to construct a number of RWH pits along with Outer Ring Road (ORR) and their assets, too.
 
 Water Board is also encouraging residential welfare associations (RWAs) in the city and GHMC’s periphery to take up the RWH pits.The state government is racing against time to complete thousands of RWH pits across the city before the arrival of the monsoon.
 
 
 
