NAGPUR: Shopping malls will not just be about brands any longer in Nagpur. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Monday started a shop ‘Umed.Nagpur — Vardhini Vastu Vikri Kendra’ that would sell handmade goods straight from the self-help group’s (SHG) produce basket.

 Union minister Nitin Gadkari inaugurated the shop started by NMC in association with The District Rural Development Agency and   (MSRLM) situated at Madhu Madhav Apartment, Laxmi Bhuvan Square, Dharampeth.
 
 MLC and former mayor Anil Sole, chairperson of NMC’s Women and Child Welfare Committee Varsha Thakre, Dharampeth zone committee chairperson Roopa Rai, additional municipal commissioner   and deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade were present.
 
 Women SHGs, which are producing an array of products, are displaying them at the shop. Garments, home-made pickles and eatables, attractive jewelleries, decorative items and bags are a few of the attractions made and marketed through women's organized initiative are available at the shop. 
 
 “The quality of products on display is not less than those of branded items. The shop will sell products at much lesser market price,” revealed Thakre. SHGs from Wardha, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Ratnagiri, Solapur, Yavatmal and Nagpur will supply products in the shop. 
 
 The shop was the perfect platform for Poonam Wadekar of Laxmi SHG has been looking for. Despite running a craft and fabrics along with 7 members for the past four-five years, the group felt it lacked market exposure. “The permanent shop would help us to get more contacts and grow further," Poonam said.
 
 Marketing is not an easy task for any women's association engaged in SHG activities. It is an enormous challenge. One has to struggle to get over initial hindrances to emerge successful. After early struggles, now Poonam has been earning around 15,000 to 20,000 per month.
 
 NMC is also planning to come up with a shopping mall in its abundant   in Sitabuldi to the selling of the hand made products by the self-help group’s in the city. Through the mall the NMC plans to give the self-help groups a permanent platform to exhibit and sell their products.
 
 
