KOLHAPUR: The   (DAPCU),   has identified as many as 18 preliminary HIV positive cases in the on-going 'gram samvedana', an awareness campaign being conducted across 65 villages from February 6. 

 DAPCU programme officer   said that as many as 12,000 screenings have been conducted in the last 11 days in the rural and remote areas of the district. Shipurkar said those cases, which have been tested positive, have to undergo further tests to get the accurate result. 
 
 She added that these patients will be counselled at an integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTC) before starting any treatment.
 
 According to Shipurkar, Kolhapur district has 3-4 major industrial areas besides the textile business of Ichalkaranji. These industrial enterprises are major hubs of employment generation. People from at least 100km periphery migrate to Kolhapur in search of jobs, most of who are HIV positive. 
 
 Another aspect unique to Kolhapur district is the seasonal migration of sugarcane cutters from  , north   and   between October and April. DAPCU conducts regular awareness campaigns and screenings to find out prevalence of sexually-transmitted diseases among the sugarcane cutters, she said.
 
 At least one lakh people, mostly men, migrate to Kolhapur during the sugarcane cutting season. Previous reports have pointed out that unconventional working hours, heavy load, liquor consumption and unprotected sexual activity among a host of other factors others make them vulnerable to HIV.
 
 Shipurkar further said during  , it has been found that people who travel to metro cities in search of work, contracted the virus there.
 
 She added all HIV positive patients should opt for Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) which they can avail at the four hospitals in the district. Patients are counselled at ICTCs before being administered treatment. After a range of blood tests, the patient whose CD4 count is less than 500, he has to take treatment throughout his life. 
 
 However, the norm has been relaxed now. The CD4 count is an indicator of how well the body's immune system is working.
 
 She added that it is a growing concern that the disease is more prevalent in the remote areas of the district. Awareness campaigns will be increased in the coming days.
 
 
