MADURAI: Sanitation has gone for a toss in the streets of   as the civic body employees have not been turning up to clean them. The residents say that the employees evince interest only on the main roads, leaving the residents in the smaller streets and lane to grapple with the piling garbage and stinking smell.

 Sourashtrapuram, located near   is a newly added locality during the 2011 city expansion. It is a congested residential area with a large number of closely packed smaller houses. Residents opine that there are no adequate dumper bins to effectively clear the garbage. The garbage dumped on the roadside is clogging the drainage channels posing a health hazard as the clogged water provides space for mosquitoes to breed.
 
 The streets are neglected for long. The sanitation employees refuse to clean the interior streets even as they keep insisting them every time they are spotted. There is no inspection by the superior authorities in interior areas. If there is such inspection and questioning it would deter the workers, but sadly nothing happens like that, says P S  , a resident from 12th Street of Sourashtrapuram.
 
 L R K Srinivasan, another resident said that they have approached officials many times requesting them to install more garbage bins, but the petitions only have fallen on the deaf ears. “People are forced to dump on the roadsides in the absence of bins. If there are bins, then they can question those who dump on the roads. Now they could not do anything but just to bear with it,” he said.
 
 S Saravanan, a youth from the locality said that whenever his friends visit his place, he feels embarrassed due to the garbage and clogged channels. The channels draining the sewage water is clogged everywhere. They involve in cleaning them too. But they can only dump the silt and wastes alongside the channel. It takes many days for the corporation employees to remove them.
 
 When contacted, an official said that at present the sanitation employees are being deployed for the Chithirai festival. Soon, the garbage and other sanitation issues in the residential areas would be addressed. 
 
 
