TNN

 Mumbai: The race for   took an interesting turn on Tuesday evening with  , controlled by Ranjan Pai, offering   shareholders a new offer that values the company at Rs 155 a share, of which the hospitals business is valued at Rs 116 a share — 21% more than the previous one. The new pitch from Manipal Group, through its healthcare arm   ( ), is at a 6% premium to Fortis’ closing price of Rs 146 on the BSE on Tuesday.
 
 The new offer values Fortis at Rs 6,061 crore — Rs 1,058 crore more than the previous offer valued at Rs 5,003 crore.
 
 Under the revised deal structure, the existing shareholders of Fortis Healthcare will hold about 50% stake in MHEPL after the hospital business of Fortis is hived off and merged with the same of Manipal. There would also be a rights issue of Rs 4,000 crore to the shareholders of the combined entity. Through a parallel deal, the Manipal Education and Medical Group (MEMG) will acquire a 31% stake in SRL, the diagnostics chain controlled by Fortis Healthcare, from private equity investors and then take management control. Currently, Fortis holds a 56.6% stake in SRL, which it will continue to hold after the closure of the deal.
 
 The sweetened offer from Manipal Group, which is backed by private equity major TPG Capital Asia, comes ahead of an all-cash offer from Malaysian major   that is being talked about in the market. There could be three-four more suitors for Fortis, which was till recently being controlled by the brothers Malvinder and Shivinder Singh, the erstwhile promoters of Ranbaxy Laboratories.
 
 Late on Tuesday, a release from the Manipal Group said that the revised offer was being placed because some shareholders were not happy with the earlier deal. Several influential shareholders, including Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, had attacked the initial offer even as activist funds had built up positions, posing a threat to the board-approved transaction with Manipal. They had lambasted the deal for low-balling the valuation of Fortis and its diagnostics unit SRL. 
 
 In Tuesday’s flat market, the Fortis Healthcare stock closed 3.3% up on the BSE with much of the gains coming in during the last hour of trade. If the deal between the Manipal Group and Fortis fructifies, the combined entity will operate 41 hospitals in 19 cities across 12 states, in addition to four hospitals overseas, with more than 4,200 doctors, 9,300 nurses and 11,400 other employees, a release from the Manipal Group said.
 
 
