GURUGRAM:   Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has told TOI that last week, the state government gave its consent to share funds for a project to build an U-turn underpass on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway near Ambience mall (Sirhaul border), and a flyover from Ambience mall to Shankar Chowk.

 The stretch of the expressway between DLF and Udyog Vihar faces regular traffic jams, mostly because of the lack of a direct passage to and from Shankar Chowk, causing a bottleneck.
 
 Last week, the Haryana government handed over a letter to NHAI detailing its share of the project. The detailed project report (DPR) for the project at Sirhaul is ready, but for the cost of production, which will have to be assessed before tender is issued. The underpass will come up at the junction of   expressway and NH-8, a clumsy arrangement. This is why the construction of the elevated U-turn was deferred from time-to-time. It’s interesting to note that authorities had earlier approved an elevated U-turn, which has now been driven underground.
 
 The problem of not having a U-turn at Ambience mall junction was revealed after the Sirhaul toll plaza was removed. Earlier, there was a facility to take a U-turn around the toll plaza. But with it gone, authorities had to close the U-turn as it had become an accident prone area.
 
 The traffic jams at Sirhaul border generally begin around the evening (between 6-9pm), because vehicles coming from Gurgaon have to take a U-turn from the Rajokri border in Delhi to reach Ambience. No sooner than the traffic starts to choke on the expressway, that many roads close to Shankar Chowk start facing lock down.
 
 With a flyover each at Iffco Chowk and Hero   already completed, and underpasses at Signature Chowk,   Chowk and Rajiv Chowk also reaching completion, the flyover at Shankar Chowk and the U-turn underpass at the Sirhaul border are the last two big-ticket projects on the expressway left in this phase.
 
 “Final DPR for the project to build the Ambience mall underground U-turn and Shankar Chowk elevated road is expected within 15 days. In this project, the Haryana government has proposed to bear 50% of the cost of the underground U-turn and 25% that of the elevated U-turn. The arrangement is yet to be finalised by the competent authority. The estimated cost of the project will be around Rs 130 crore,” said  , project director, NHAI, adding that the authority wants to start construction work simultaneously on Sirhaul border and Shankar Chowk, so that problems at both ends can be solved simultaneously.
 
