With   just around the corner, we explored markets of Rajendra Nagar, Janakpuri, Civil Lines and Bara Bazaar, and found out that colourful   and colour shooters, along with   and   pichkaris, have flooded   markets. 
 
 
 Colour poppers, just like party poppers filled with scented gulaal are available in bright colours and priced at `150. Apart from these poppers, colour shooter, priced at `300, is another new entrant this year that shoots out a variety of pre-filled coloured gulaals from its pump. Jyotica Verma, a resident of Janakpuri, says, “I am planning to use colour poppers and shooters this Holi. The best part about them is that they solve the twin purpose of splashing gulaal and throwing water at once.”
 
  
  Bareillywallahs are gearing up for Holi, which is next week, and buying the latest pichkaris and colours
 
 
 
 Bollywood-inspired pichkaris and water tanks are another hot-selling items. Bahubali water tanks and Pikachu, butterfly and Chhota Bheem pichkaris are also in demand. Vikas Nagpal, a shopkeeper from DD Puram, says, “While Doraemon, Chhota Bheem, Motu-Patlu have always been a hit with kids, Pikachu pichkaris and water tanks priced at `390 and butterfly pichkaris priced at `290 have made a comeback this year. Additionally, Bollywood-inspired Bahubali water tank for `480 is another item which is quite in demand.”
 Rashmi Tiwari, a resident of Old City, says, “Bahubali water tank is so attractive. It’s something different than those regular water guns and I am planning to gift it to my niece this Holi.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 A new variety of colours – magic ice, a non-toxic and colour-based fake ice – is available in the markets for `50. Rohit Gupta, a shopkeeper from Bara Bazaar, says, “College students are buying several packets of this fake ice. One just needs to add water to the colour bottle pack and within seconds, it transforms into a frothy ice-like appearance. Kids have a lot of fun while throwing it at each other.”
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
