CHANDRAPUR: Mystery continues to shroud the death of   in Talodhi forest range as post mortem conducted by a team of veterinary doctors failed to deduce the exact cause of death. The two-hour-long autopsy was conducted on Sunday.

 A team of four veterinary doctors carried out the post mortem at Sindewahi forest depot in the morning in the presence of AIG, NTCA, Hemant Kamdi, wildlife board member and PCCF representative Bandu Dhotre and other forest officials. However, it came out blank about the cause of death. Official statement released by DCF, Bramhapuri, Kulraj Singh, on WhatsApp group states that vets have collected samples of various body parts for forensic examination to ascertain the exact cause of death.
 
 Singh’s statement has particular mention of scratches on the front leg of the tigress, which suggest territorial fight. The last tigress death in Sindewahi range too was the result of territorial fight. Chandrapur district, infamous for man-animal conflict, also appears to be emerging as hotbed of territorial fight of tigers in the light of recent tiger deaths. The mention of scratches on the tigress’s leg, while completely ignoring the mention of highly petrified conduction of the body, suggests that officials have already deduced it as a case of territorial fight, but are awaiting forensic report for confirmation.
 
 Singh also states that all valuable body parts of the tigress were intact, but he had not ruled out the possibility of poaching. NTCA guidelines state that the cases of tiger deaths where cause of death is not ascertained should be considered as a case of poaching.
 
 Forest officials had remained strangely secretive in this particular case of Talodhi tigress. While none of other officials in Bramhapuri division replied to the phone calls, DCF Singh refused to give his comments on phone. He, however, released the press note both on Saturday and Sunday on WhatsApp group of wildlife activists, instead of officially mailing it to the offices of media through district information office. Following his secretive approach, most of the media persons failed to get the release.
 
 
