NEW DELHI: Dismissing pleas seeking a probe into judge BH Loya’s death as an attempt to browbeat the judiciary, the   said on Thursday that public interest litigation (PIL), which was devised by the apex court in 1984 to give succour to the marginalised and oppressed, was now being brazenly misused to seek publicity or to settle business and political rivalry. 

 
 Identifying   case judgment in 1984 as laying the foundation for creation of public interest jurisdiction of constitutional courts, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y   said: “The hallmark of a public interest petition is that a citizen may approach the court to ventilate grievance of a person or class of persons who are unable to pursue their rights. Over time, public interest litigation has become a powerful instrument to preserve rule of law and to ensure accountability and transparency within structures of governance.” 
 
 The court said that over the years, PILs had been “brazenly misutilised for personal agenda”. “At one end of that spectrum are those cases where public interest petitions are motivated by a desire to seek publicity. At the other end of the spectrum are petitions which have been instituted at the behest of business or political rivals to settle scores behind the facade of a public interest litigation. The true face of the litigant behind the facade is seldom unravelled,” said Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment for the bench. The apex court said that such misuse of PILs posed a grave danger which, if it continued, would seriously denude the efficacy of the judicial system. 
 
 
  
 
 It would detract the courts from devoting time and resources to cases which legitimately required attention. “Worse still, such petitions pose a grave danger to the credibility of the judicial process,” Justice Chandrachud said. “This has the propensity of endangering the credibility of other institutions and undermining public faith in democracy and rule of law. This will happen when the agency of the court is utilised to settle extra-judicial scores. Business rivalries have to be resolved in a competitive market for goods and services. Political rivalries have to be resolved in the great hall of democracy when the electorate votes its representatives in and out of office,” he said. 
 
 The apex court said that misuse of PILs was a matter of serious concern at a time when the judiciary was burdened with monstrous case pendency. 
 
 “Frivolous or motivated petitions, ostensibly invoking public interest, detract from the time and attention which courts must devote to genuine causes. This court has a long list of pending cases where the personal liberty of citizens is involved,” it said. “Those who await trial or the resolution of appeals against orders of conviction have a legitimate expectation of early justice. It is a travesty of justice for the resources of the legal system to be consumed by an avalanche of misdirected petitions purportedly filed in the public interest which, upon due scrutiny, are found to promote a personal, business or political agenda. This has spawned an industry of vested interests in litigation,” it added.
 
