NEW DELHI: Talking on the mobile phone while driving in Rajasthan will now cost you your licence. The Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court has directed the traffic police to obtain photographs of such violators and forward their credentials to the regional transport office for cancellation of driving licence.

 
 The court passed the order after the additional commissioner of police (traffic) told the court that a large number of four- and two-wheeler drivers used mobile phones while driving, which was not permissible under the law and caused accidents.
 
 A bench comprising Justices Gopal Krishan Vyas and Ramchandra Singh Jhala ordered the traffic police to “ensure that no driver shall use mobile phone while driving vehicles and if it is found that vehicle drivers are using mobile phone while plying the vehicles, then after obtaining their photographs and other credentials the same may be forwarded to the concerned RTO for cancellation of driving licence of such erring person”.
 
 It also directed the RTO and transport department authorities to initiate proceedings to cancel licences after giving an opportunity for hearing.
 
 According to the  , those using mobile phones while driving face four times higher risk of crash. The number of accidents and deaths due to this growing menace has shot up across the world.
 
 Using mobile phone while driving claimed at least 2,138 lives in 2016 across the country, which experts said was hugely under-reported since there is hardly any scientific investigation or recording of fatal crashes in India.
 
 The recent incident of 13 school-going children dying in a bus-rail collision in Kushinagar in Uttar Pradesh has brought the rampant use of mobile phone while driving into the limelight. The bus driver was talking on phone while driving, some students claimed. Using mobile phone is the biggest cause of distraction while driving.
 
 Transport minister Nitin Gadkari had told TOI last week, “People using mobile phone and taking selfies while driving are increasingly posing a risk to themselves and others as well.” A recent survey by   had found that nine out of 10 drivers believed using mobile phones while driving was unsafe but 47% of them admitted to having received calls while behind the wheel.
 
