AMARAVATI: The state government’s grand plans to make   an ultimate tourist destination in the country have fallen flat thanks to the inactive   department. 

 The top brass of the tourism department have completely failed to translate the vision of the Chief minister N   in decking up the ambitious tourist attractions in the state. Surprisingly, the tourism department could not even ready a smart web portal that guides tourists to land in their dream destinations to spend their holidays.
 
 CM Naidu is a strong advocate of making tourism sector as chief growth booster. He wanted to convert the tourism sector as a core sector for the overall development of the Andhra Pradesh as he saw this as an opportunity in the tourism wing to create jobs, revenue besides providing fun to tourists. CM had also asked the district collectors to make all the festivals as an opportunity to rope in the tourists from overall India by organising localised food festivals and colourful rural games.
 
 Instead of taking the cue from CM’s vision and moving ahead with innovative programmes, the tourism department seemed to have caught in red-tapism as they have utterly failed to complete the ongoing projects to which would have created additional infrastructure in various tourist destinations.
 
 While the people are busy finalising their plans to spend the summer holidays, AP tourism department is still grappling to put the summer packages on track. According to information, there is a heavy demand for hotel rooms and lodges located at beach destinations across the state as people from other states are thronging to these locations.
 
  beach near   in   district is one of the most famous beach destination in the Andhra Pradesh and attracts huge crowd, particularly on weekends. However, people are finding it difficult to book accommodations in the tourism department owned cottages as there is no mention of any facilities in the APTDC web portal. 
 
 People have to personally visit the locations and book accommodations. Despite the failure of online booking facility, it has been found that people face a lot6 of difficulty to get accommodations in Surya Lanka during the weekends. Similarly, visit to Papikondalu on boat in river Godavari has turned out to be a major tourism attraction in the state. While the private boat operators are literally making a killing by providing online reservation, the tourism department has failed to cash in on the craze by providing online booking. The APTDC portal is accepting bookings for river cruise only for Dindi spot.
 
 
