 The sight of batsmen taking cover with deliveries bouncing awkwardly during the third Test at the Wanderers in   didn’t make for good viewing.
 
  It was dangerous too.
  
  Former India captain and chief of selectors   was an eager viewer all through but was unanimous in his belief that such pitches were bad advertisements for Test  .
  
  “Wickets in South Africa were way poor. This is the time for   (International Cricket Council) to take notice and choose neutral curators, who would oversee preparation of wickets across the world. When the ICC has neutral umpires, it’s time for neutral curators too,” said Vengsarkar, currently in Goa.
  
  The Wanderers pitch received severe criticism for its uneven bounce and excessive movement. The danger was there right from day one but when Jasprit Bumrah’s delivery struck Dean Elgar, the alarm bells started to ring.
  
  “The third Test match was close to being called off. I am sure the ICC will pull up South African cricket. The pitch was dangerous and would have harmed the players physically. There could have been fatal injuries. Such wickets should not be allowed anywhere,” said Vengsarkar.
  
  South Africa, though, are not the only ones at fault, pointed out Vengsarkar, arguing that India too have been guilty of preparing pitches that suit their interest.
  
  “People always complain when they tour India that they have to face under-prepared wickets. You see (offspinner) Ravichandran Ashwin bowling the first over in a Test match which is very disappointing. (As an offspinner) Ashwin should come into play in the fourth or fifth day. When he is bowling the first over, it’s not good advertisement for Test cricket,” said Vengsarkar.
  
  The former India captain felt the authorities must make every effort to ensure that the crowd gets their money’s worth.
  
  “If you want to attract the crowd, you must have a wicket with bounce which helps batsmen, bowlers and spinners. People would like to pay for that and watch quality cricket,” he said.
  
  India lost the Test series 1-2 after losing the first two Tests. The victory in the final Test in difficult conditions was a saving grace but Vengsarkar expected the team to do far better.
  
  “Overall, India’s batting failed. There were opportunities to win the matches in both the Test. If the batsmen had applied themselves, results would have been different. The bowlers did an excellent job right through.
  
  “To be honest, we went to South Africa with a lot of overconfidence because we did so well the entire year when we were playing at home and winning everything. On hindsight, you can say so many things. The players did not get enough time to get accustomed to the wickets and South African conditions. Had this been a five-match Test series, we could have won,” said Vengsarkar.
