After performing successful shows in Delhi NCR, the play  , an urban family entertainer is coming for the first time to Mumbai. Written and directed by   who is known for his original plays and truthful visualization on stage who is now ready with a play totally different from his forte. 

 A contemporary urban comedy it deals with human emotions and family relationships at a subtle level. It is the story of a man who earned a lot of money, name and fame throughout his life but in the process fails to give any time or love to his family (wife and only child, his daughter). His daughter has married a theatre artist, Kanav against the will of her father. Now the father is coming back to India for few days and wants to stay with his daughter. Things take a rather awkwardly funny turn when Avni, an old student and an ardent fan of Vaidya, happens to run into him and starts seeing him quite often subsequently. 
 
 Writer & Director Atul Satya Koushik, who has had successful runs of plays like 'Chakravyuh' featuring Nitish Bharadwaj, 'Draupadi' featuring   and Himani Shivpuri, 'Raavan Ki Ramayan' featuring   and others says, “After doing historical and mythological plays, I always wanted to do something modern and comical. I wanted to come up with something more urban and contemporary. I was trying to explore various stories and plots and when this one on human relations came to my mind I immediately knew this is the one I want to make before any other play."
  
  
 He feels that the play is relevant in today's times because of the conflict of emotions and relationships that we see in the society today says Koushik, "We see these kind of situations and relationships creeping up in our society around us all the time. The mad race to earn more and more resources is leaving us blank and empty at the level of human relationships. This play gives a message to strike a fine balance between work, aspirations and family relationships." 
 
 The plays has had a good response all over India says Koushik, "We have performed the play in Delhi, Ghazianad, Indore, Kolkata, Lucknow, Kanpur, Baroda, Karnal and all the cities gave us lots of love and adulation. Not only did they laugh at the jokes but also understood the under current of the story. The message and the comedy of the play, both struck a fine cord with the audience."
 
 Koushik is confident that he will get a similar response from the Mumbai audience, "We are performing 'Dad's Girlfriend' for the first time in Mumbai and Pune and I am very sure that the we will get the same amount of love from these cities as well."
 
 The play will be staged on June 1 at 8 pm at St Andrews Auditorium, Bandra and on June 2 at 8 pm at Royal Opera House Auditorium
 
 
