PATNA:   Pradesh   Committee (BPCC) on Friday expressed concern over alleged deterioration in law and order scenario and asked CM Nitish Kumar for “introspection” of his government’s image in the wake of frequent incidents of murder, loot and rape in different parts of the state.

 “If the incidents of serious crimes in the last few weeks are analysed at micro-level, it will show how antisocial elements have taken the administration in their grip and criminals are executing their plans without any fear of police administration,” BPCC spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu   said.
 
 Jha said armed criminals on Thursday shot dead Sitamarhi district welfare officer   while criminals attacked the family of Balesara panchayat mukhiya Mahatam Choudhary at   in Gopalganj district three days ago. Mahatam and his elder son   succumbed to their injuries in hospital. Mahatam’ wife Prabhavati Devi and their another son are undergoing treatment.
 
 Earlier, on May 4, two persons were murdered on Ara railway station premises, Jha said, adding the incidents of rape with minors were being reported almost every alternate day form different parts of the state. 
 
 Besides, the police have miserably failed to check liquor smuggling in dry Bihar despite tall claims by the government, he said and added that illegal mining and sale of sand was also going unabated in the state. 
 
 “CM failed to win a single byelection in the state ever since he left the grand alliance. He needs retrospection on this issue,” Jha said and claimed that Nitish’s popularity was waning fast due to the recent rise in crime.
 
 Gohil to visit state tomorrow
 
 All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge for Bihar affairs, Shaktisinh Gohil, will visit the state on June 3, BPCC media in charge H K Verma said on Friday. “Gohil will meet the party’s former youth coordinators at Sadaqat Ashram. He will leave for Madhubani the same day to attend the iftar hosted by the Madhubani district Congress committee. Gohil will return Delhi on June 4,” Verma said. 
 
 
