CHENNAI: When access to   was cut off by the city police, it was expected to be a deterrent to public protests for causes like   and anti-Sterlite movements. Instead, it has become a trigger for footpath encroachment by two-wheelers, which are being parked illegally along Kamarajar Salai. 

 As has been the norm since the jallikattu protests in 2017, the police last week blocked access to the service road off   Beach and the promenade off Elliot's Beach to discourage members of the public from using these beaches as venues for demonstrations. Until Saturday, access to the beaches was restricted with the police profiling visitors, a move criticised by locals and activists, before deciding whether the individual/group should be allowed to access the coast.
 
 With no space to park, visitors to Marina Beach packed their vehicles on the multi-crore footpath built by Greater Chennai Corporation along Kamarajar Salai, a move the police chose to ignore. "Where else could you park? They (the police) have put barricades on all sides. There is no possible entry into the service road. I have no choice but leave my two-wheeler here," L Jamieson, a visitor, told TOI on Friday. 
 
 Vehicles cramming onto the footpath left pedestrians with little choice. R Guna, a visitor, said the situation resembled elsewhere in the city where pedestrian infrastructure is misused either through illegally parked vehicles or illegal shops. "The police should be towing these vehicles away," he added.
 
  TOI asked a few police personnel on duty at the Marina Beach, including a traffic policeman, why the vehicles illegally parked on the footpath were not being towed? All of them had the same answer. "It is only for a few days (until the restrictions are removed)," said the on-duty traffic policeman, who was directing two-wheeler riders to park on the footpath. 
 
 On Sunday, though the police had relaxed restrictions, vehicles continued to be parked on the footpath. Opposite Kalas Mahal, the Marina Beach bus shelter had less space for commuters waiting for the MTC bus and accommodated more two-wheelers. While entry into the service road was possible at only two points - the start of   and opposite Thanthai Periyar Maligai - senior police officers, when contacted, told TOI that there was no restriction on public movement. 
 
 Deputy commissioner, law and order (Triplicane range), Pravesh Kumar said he did not know of illegally parked vehicles on the footpath. "I will look into it," he said, when TOI told him that the police personnel on duty were not discouraging illegal parking. 
 
 
