PALAMPUR:   governor   on Monday slammed agri-scientists for not working on ground realities to curb farmer deaths across the country and help increase their incomes.

 He was speaking at the launch of zero budget natural farming (ZBNF) project in the presence of chief minister  , ministers and MLAs at CSK Agriculture University.
 
 Under this model, a mixture of cow dung, cow urine, gram flour and jaggery (gud) is used to make a fertilizer. The university will provide training to   to produce the same as part of the project, which also involves other methods designed by agri-scientists to end dependency of farmers on markets.
 
 The governor said it is high time to leave aside the bookish knowledge and protect agriculture in India. He said use of chemicals is destroying the soil quality and heath of citizens across the country. 
 
 “I am myself a farmer having 200 acres of land in  . I know the ground realities. Current agricultural practices are sending consumers in hospitals and forcing farmers to commit suicide,” he said while addressing the gathering of agricultural scientists and senior dignitaries of the state government.
 
 Organic farming is said to be the solution to get healthy food, but the governor said this is also not the solution for economic well-being of the farmer.
 
 “Green revolution happened in 1960s when agricultural productivity has to be increased. But that was the need of the hour as food was required to feed the population. Urea, pesticides and other chemicals was introduced during that time only. But now it has started showing negative effects,” said the governor. 
 
 He said that nobody has heard about diseases like diabetes and cancer before the green revolution happened.
 
 He said he himself has implemented ZBNF in his farms and is getting four times the price of the yield in the market. “People have opened commercial ventures in the name of organic. But it has not stopped the loot of farmers in the country,” added Devvrat.
 
 He said agri-scientists should start a movement in the villages with ZBNF as it would double the farmers’ income by 2022.
 
 “Each one of you should adopt five villages to implement this technique. It is a godly work. Himachal would come up as a model in this sector for other states too. This will also help protect our upcoming generations from various harmful effects of chemical farming,” he added.
 
 
