JAIPUR: The congested   in the state capital will get a breather. To restore the old city charm and de-congest the Walled City area, chief minister   announced the construction of international-level underpass which would connect   and Jaipur-Delhi National Highway.

 An official said, the project will be taken under the smart city project and Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) has already invited the bid for the project to prepare the detailed project report (DPR).
 
 “The DRP will be prepared by April. In future, funding will be done by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Under the project, two additional tunnels will be constructed for parking. This project will bring city at par with foreign countries,” said a senior smart city official.
 
 The Jaipur city remained at the centre stage in Budget as several environmental friendly, tourism, infrastructure and developmental projects were allocated for the state capital. To reduce pollution in the city, the chief minister has also proposed to purchase 40 new electric buses. The   (JCTSL) would spend Rs 72 crore to purchase these buses.
 
 To develop 30-km smart corridor of international standards under Dravyavati river project, a budget of Rs 50 crore has been allocated. Cameras, surveillance, sensors and Wifi facilities will be developed on this smart corridor.
 
 She said, “ The   would established as a model showcasing environmental, tourism and urban development transformation.”
 
 Chief minister announced several projects taken up during BJP government tenure such as Madhavendra Palace sculpture park, Jhalana Leopard Safari, Night Bazaar, Walled city illumination and night bazaars have already become pride for Jaipur.
 
 An official said , “ The Government of Rajasthan in collaboration with Saat Saath Arts recently launched The Sculpture Park at Madhavendra Palace, Nahargarh Fort, Jaipur. The palace is turned into an art gallery and sculptures by top Indian and international artists are being displayed at the palace. The project is already on a world map,”
 
 A state level road security training centre was also announced be established in Jaipur after spending an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore.
 
 The state first mini plant of camel milk will be established in Jaipur. The plant will cost Rs 7 crore. The announcement to establish the plant was done after Food Safety Standards Authority of India gave permission to buy and sell camel milk across the country.
 
