GURUGRAM: The   concentration in the city has doubled in the past 48 hours, making Gurugram the second most polluted city in   on Wednesday. The PM2.5 concentration was 100 micrograms per cubic metre on Monday but increased to 211 on Tuesday and 175 on Wednesday.

 
 
 
  
 On Wednesday, Ghaziabad became the most-polluted city in NCR with an air quality (AQI) index of 331, which falls under the ‘very poor’ category. The AQI in Gurugram was recorded at 309 which also falls under the ‘very poor’ category. 
 
 On the other hand, Delhi, Faridabad and Noida reported AQI indices of 231, 247 and 252 which fall in the ‘poor’ category.
 
 According to the officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), decrease in wind speed and a relatively cloudy sky have led to an increase in the PM2.5 concentration. “The wind speed has reduced slightly, making it difficult for dust particles to disperse and leading to a rise in the level of particulate matter. We have seen the same scenario in other cities of NCR. The pollution levels have increased across NCR over the past 48 hours. In Gurugram, however, it has been worse,” said an official of HSPCB.
 
 Experts, on the other hand, blamed construction on arterial roads for the sudden rise in concentration of particulate matter. “There is no check on construction work on private land plots. Additionally, the authorities are flouting all norms to build underpasses and widen roads in the city. There are several ways to control pollution at construction sites such as regular sprinkling on site, putting up metal barriers and using vaccum cleaning. However, nothing is being done by the authorities,” said Vivek Kamboj from Haryali, an environmental NGO. 
 
 According to the Met department, the wind speed is expected to rise in next two days. “We are expecting wind speed to go up in the next two days so we can expect dispersal of particulate matter. It might result in bringing down the air pollution. We might see cloudy sky and thunderstorm. Also, maximum   is expected to come down by one or two notches,” said an official of met department. 
 
 On Thursday, the average maximum temperature is likely to be 32 degree Celsius and the average minimum temeprature is expected to be 18 degree Celsius.
 
 
 
