GANDHINAGAR: To address the   the state government has initiated a tie-up with   for creating a strong   of   under ‘Operation Green Gujarat.’ The government intends to utilize Amul’s experience and ability in coordinating milk farmers and distributing milk products in helping other farmers sell their products and obtain better prices.

 Currently, there is no organized system of purchase, distribution, pricing and quality control in fruits and vegetables and despite the produce fetching high prices, farmers continue to have poor earnings. Amul will be launching a pilot project shortly in Ahmedabad district and city and is expected to sell fruits and vegetables from its milk parlours.
 
 Sanjay Prasad, ACS, agriculture, cooperation and farmer welfare department, said, “At present, fruit and vegetable growers mostly work in an unorganized fashion. Post harvest losses range from 15% to 20%, which is very high. Levels of processing, at the same time, is very low and stand at 6%-7%.”
 
 Elaborating on the situation, Prasad said, “Only potato, onion, and mango is processed in small quantities, while there is some frozen vegetables like peas and sweet corn. Export of fresh fruits and vegetables from India is 41 lakh tonnes and Gujarat has only 1.8% share in India’s export. So, there is huge potential i this sector.”
 
 Prasad said farmers faced price volatility due to a long supply chain, value loss, inefficient handling and damages to yield, high overheads, lack of quality governance and use of banned chemicals.
 
 “To tackle these issues, we have decided to tie up with Amul to create a strong cooperative structure form fruit and vegetable growers, as milk farmers already have in place,” Prasad said.
 
 Prasad said that a pilot project under ‘Operation Green Gujarat’ will be launched soon in Ahmedabad district and city, under which Amul will create the co-operative network of fruit and vegetable growers and retailers.
 
 “Amul will organize demand-induced production, productivity enhancement and reduce production costs. It will also set up farmer-owned integrated and efficient supply chain through new dedicated outlets,” said Prasad.
 
 The government will help in development of support infrastructure like processing and distribution system and space for cash and carry outlets across Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, Prasad said, adding, “We expect to expand   across the state as fast as possible.”
 
 Prasad said Amul will organize and ensure quality assurance, GAP certification, conservation of surplus production, cold stores, processing, etc along with value additions like sorting, grading, packing, reducing marketing costs of farmers by avoiding unnecessary bags/crates etc for fruit and vegetable growers.
 
 
