NAGPUR: The   (CBSE) will be declaring results for Std X on Tuesday by 4pm. With extremely high individual scores being witnessed in the Std XII results this year, there are speculations that Std X might see similar peaks even though academicians are sceptical.

 CBSE’s 2018 board exam marked its return to the traditional evaluation system after a long gap of seven years. The Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) scheme was in place from 2011-17.
 
 Anmol  , principal of  , said, “It’s very hard to say how the scoring will be even compared to last year’s Std X results. Last year, schools had 70% marks under their control and now it’s back to the traditional format. So, it will be almost impossible to say which way things will go.”
 
 Though the recent Std XII results may have sparked off speculations on Std X too recording high scores, another, and more popular, theory is that number of high scorers will decrease drastically. A principal, who did not wish to be named, said, “Unscrupulous schools resorted to unacceptable methodology in evaluating students and thus inflating marks. Over the years, this led to many students scoring lot of marks. On Tuesday, this will all change because the ones who did the manipulation will get exposed. CCE was an excellent system but could not achieve its full potential because of poor implementation.”
 
 Under CCE, only grades were given to students and the highest cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 10 meant the student would have scored roughly between 95%-100%. The fact that grades were being inflated needed no proof as the overall results bore testimony with sharp increase in number of students scoring the perfect 10 CGPA.
 
 In 2015, the number of students scoring 10 CGPA was 94,474. In 2016, this jumped drastically to 1.65 lakh which was unprecedented in the history of the central board. That particular year, 11% of all CBSE students were in this top bracket. The final year of CCE (2017) shattered all records with a record breaking 2.06 lakh students across the country scoring the highest possible 10 CGPA (Cumulative Grade Point Average).
 
 In Nagpur, things were not much different as the 99% club saw and whopping 10 students squeezing into soak in the glory. Of the top 10, there was a tie between three students at 99.4% for the top spot. Private independent schools had the highest number of students scoring 10 CGPA at 1.85 lakh, followed by   at 14,897 then Jawahar Navodaya schools at 3,928, government schools at 1,574 while government-aided schools had 295. 
 
 
