PATNA:   will start the first phase of its “Aamantran Yatra” from Sheohar on Monday. The yatra will also pave way for launch of the party’s campaign in the state for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

 Acting president of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) Kaukab Quadri told TOI on Sunday that the poll bugle was initially slated to be sounded with a mega rally in East Champaran on April 8, but the programme had to be rescheduled in the wake of PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Motihari on April 10 to participate in the concluding ceremony of Champaran satyagrah centenary celebrations.
 
 “We wanted to hold a mega show at Brindavan village in East Champaran on April 8 to kickstart the campaign of Congress ahead of 2019 general elections. We had also applied for permission with the administration, but we were told that all administrative resources were channelized for PM’s visit. Most hotels were also booked for the PM’s event. Hence, we decided to postpone the programme,” Quadri said.
 
 Quadri added that following the change in plan, the party is contemplating formally launch its its campaign in the state after the conclusion of all eight phases of ‘Amantran Yatra’ by May 11. “Based on the feedback collected from workers and voters, the new incharge of the party’s Bihar unit Shaktisinh Gohil will chalk out strategy for the election campaign which will be launched in mid-May,” Quadri said.
 
 Meanwhile, Gohil, who arrived in the state capital on Sunday morning, held a meeting with party functionaries, legislators and workers at Sadaquat Ashram. Incarcerated RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also visited Sadaquat Ashram and met Gohil.
 
 Gohil said he would tour three districts – Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Muzaffarpur – under the first leg of Amantran Yatra. “The yatra is aimed at strengthening the party. Through this yatra, we will interact with people and members of the party, including active as well as inactive members. My work here is to strengthen the organizational structure of the Congress,” Gohil said.
 
 He added Congress would also hold a nationwide dharna and fast against the alleged ‘dilution’ of SC/ST Act and communal unrest in the country.
 
 Gohil said he would request party president Rahul Gandhi to appoint four secretaries of All India Congress Committee (AICC) in Bihar in order to have better outreach among grassroots workers. “We would divide the state into three to four zones, so that party workers from each zone could raise their issues,” Gohil said. 
 
 
