By: Anindita.Acharya

 Visiting Sri Karthikeya Swamy Temple in Sector 30-B, Chandigarh, at 7pm on any Friday is like being teleported to   Nadu. Watch women in traditional saris light prayer lamps, and catch men in dhoti, shirt, and angavastram. Those you see in formal wear have rushed from the office to seek Lord’s blessings.
 
 This is one happy occasion and the UT Tamils from all social classes look forward to the Friday prayers. Chandigarh is home to more than 50,000 Tamils, who have kept their tradition alive so far away from the original home in South. They live in 12 enclaves in and around the Tricity, where they have built temporary temples.
 
 
 
 
 The UT Tamil Sangam was formed in 1968. However, it took until 1971 for its registration as Tamil Manram, a South Indian socio-cultural organisation. Its building, Bharathi Bhawan in Sector 30, is a popular assembly point for the local Tamil community. The office has four rooms, to which the Tamils plan to add a few more, besides a reception area, an auditorium, and a multi-purpose hall.
 
 When he was local MP, former Union minister   had sanctioned some money from his discretionary fund for the development of a computer laboratory at Bharathi Bhawan for poor children.
 
 
 
 
 When Chandigarh was coming up, it is said that the-then chief minister of Tamil Nadu, Kumaraswami Kamaraj, entered a big agreement with the UT government of those times. UT Tamil Sangam general secretary   said: “It was decided that the 3-Base Repair Depot (3-BRD) of the Air Force would be developed in Chandigarh instead of Tamil Nadu, and in lieu of that, 3,000 to 5,000 south Indians will be provided with jobs in the UT.” So, nearly 5,000 people from North Arcot (Tiruvannamalai and Vellore since 1989) district of Tamil Nadu shifted to Haryana and Punjab and joined various government departments.
 
 Today, 52 years on, Tamils consider City Beautiful their actual home. To their credit, they laid most of the roads in Chandigarh. UT Tamil Sangam treasurer Siva Subramaniam said: “Even most of the maintenance and cleaning of the UT roads is done by the Tamils.” Rajasekaran was proud to recall how Tamil labourers played a key role in the construction of the Rock Garden.
 
 From doctors (at the PGI) to engineers, architects, restaurant owners, Air Force officers, software developers, financial consultants, and the backbone of various departments in the UT Administration, Tamils in every role have fitted into Chandigarh.
 
 
 
 
 Maharajan Rathinavel, a Tamil who worked at a private firm in Chandigarh from 2005 to 2007, returned to settle in the city in 2013. “Till date, I haven’t faced any discrimination here because of my skin colour or southern accent,” he said. And if you thought the Tamils relish only rasam and curd rice, well, here’s the clarification. Maharajan loves to gorge on dal makhani and kadhai paneer. “The best thing about Chandigarh,” he said, “is that it embraces anyone who wants to live here peacefully.” Rajasekaran said: “Chandigarh values education and sincerity, not the colour of your skin.”
 
 
 To Siva, “Sri Karthikeya Swamy Temple is the force that has helped the Tamils sustain their traditions so far away from Tamil Nadu”. Besides Tamil New Year and Pongal, the community also celebrates all north Indian festivals with equal enthusiasm. 
 
 The Tamil association helps  , a lecturer from the PGI’s nursing department, and her two children remain attached to their roots and culture. “When they are at the temple, they interact with other children in their mother tongue and participate in various cultural events, which teaches them values and builds relationships,” she said.
 
 Need more trains
 
 When the Tamil association celebrated Pongal on January 21, MP Kirron Kher was chief guest. The general secretary appealed to her to put in a word with the Centre for more trains between the city and Tamil Nadu. “We only have the Chandigarh-Madurai Junction Superfast Express. During Pongal, the local Tamils who cannot afford flight tickets are forced to jostle for train seats and then travel in discomfort,” said Rajasekaran.
 
