NAGPUR: The ministry of housing and urban affairs on Tuesday declared the city as open defecation free (ODF) under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Along with Nagpur city, 37 other cities, including neighbouring Amravati, Yavatmal, and   in the state too were declared as ODF.

 A central team had recently visited the city to verify NMC’s claims that it deserved the official ODF status. The team released its results on Tuesday evening. Based on the assessment, QCI recommended to the ministry of housing and urban affairs to certify Nagpur city as ODF. Now, the ministry will issue ‘Swachh Certification’ to the city based on the third party recommendation.
 
 “Today evening, I received information from the ministry that Nagpur city has been declared ODF,” civic chief   told TOI. Mayor   expressed gratitude towards the people of Nagpur for assisting the civic body in achieving the feat.
 
 Mudgal said   has been on an overdrive for the last several months, constructing over 11,500 individual toilets against the target of 12,000. Besides, NMC had also placed mobile toilets in suspected sites like near Kalamna market, NIT’s transport plaza on   etc. “We were working on it from last one year,” he said.
 
 After October 2, NMC had shifted focus to places where open defecation was rampant. “Apart from constructing toilets in the city, the civic body ran many programmes to create awareness related to cleanliness and use of toilets. All senior officials of the city were conducting inspection of all wards to check open defecation,” Mudgal said.
 
 NMC had shortlisted 84 potential spots where ODF was being reported. The commissioner said surprise checks were carried out at these spots. Later, NMC formed ‘Good Morning Squad’ and caught many persons defecating in the open. “Not only did NMC fine the violators, but also filed police complaints against many citizens,” the civic chief said.
 
 All these measures helped the city during the three-day inspection out by the QCI team. The one-member team visited 100 sites and clicked over 1,700 photos to verify NMC’s claim.
 
 With the announcement of city area being declared ODF, Nagpur is poised to receive 150 extra points in the ranking for cleanest city under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The list is prepared on the basis of marks scored for availability of infrastructure and service levels related to sanitation, such as individual household toilets, public and community toilets, and collection, transportation and processing of municipal solid waste.
 
 In July 2017, the state-level team of SBM cell had declared Nagpur ODF. The state team had visited different spots in the city, including railway tracks, Hazaripahad, Sudam Nagari, Yashodhara Nagar, Chikhli, and Shivangaon, among other places.
 
 
