MYSURU: Although artificial lakes can be created for recreational purposes, never can man create  , said ecologist UN Ravikumar on Sunday.

 At a talk organised by the Kukkarahalli Horata Samiti on ‘Importance of Lake Conservation’, held as part of the outfit’s awareness drive, Ravikumar said, “Old Mysuru was developed based on the well system. The borewell came later, and Cauvery water came into the city. Today, it still remains our responsibility to conserve water. Time and again, Mysuru has demonstrated how people can unite to save the environment.”
 
 Recalling how citizen activism ensured that the Lingambudhi Lake was not bifurcated when the Outer Ring Road project was being executed. “The vigilance of the residents of Mysuru helped conserve it. We all know how the government and the authorities make plans, and how hard it is to stop it. Mysureans raised their voice against these projects. The city has remained strong in protecting its lakes,” he said.
 
 Expressing concerns over how all lakes were under siege, Ravikumar said, “It is the catchment area of the lakes that matter the most when it comes to  . Waste management is vital to  . When solid waste and toxic materials enter the  , this poses a threat. Waste from the university campus is disposed of into the lake, and somebody needs to take a call on cleaning it. Unless this happens, no certificate for the Cleanest City can vouch for the quality of the lake water.”
 
 Underscoring the distinctness of lakes in urban areas, Ravikumar said, “They cannot be classed along with conventional irrigational lakes. As and when the city develops, toxic materials enter the waterbodies. From chromium in the motorbikes, to lead in paints, they ultimately settle down in the lake.”
 
 Stating that lakes gave a lot of hope to all, he added, “Besides gadgets, we need technology to come up with an eco-friendly approach for lake conservation. An efficient waste management system is the need of the hour. Along with lake conservation, protecting life of living organisms is also important.”
 
 
