MOHALI: A day after the body of a 35-year-old woman was found hanging from the ceiling fan of her Phase VII residence under mysterious circumstances on Saturday, the deceased’s kin have suspected foul play.

 Jaspinder Kaur’s family members said she was a brave and independent woman and could never take such an extreme step. They added that Kaur had taken Rs4 lakh from her father a few days before the incident.
 
 Kaur was scheduled to leave for Canada along with her 8-year-old son on April 17. According to the police, the incident took place in the intervening night between April 16 and April 17. Two days before the incident, Kaur had also done shopping with her friend.
 
 Police on Friday evening found her hanging from the ceiling fan of her rented house. His son had been staying in the same room with his mother’s body hanging for three days.
 
 The incident came to light when neighbours noticed the foul smell emanating from her house and complained to the police. Kaur’s family members were informed about the suicide and her two brothers arrived at the hospital at 1.30am on Friday.
 
 Police had recovered a suicide note from the spot. However, she had not blamed anyone in the note.
 
 Kaur’s brother Jagdev Singh said, “She was a brave and independent woman. It is hard to believe that she would end her own life.”
 
 He added that Kaur was scheduled to leave for Canada with her son on April 17. She had done all the preparations for the visit. “Why would she take such a step just one day before leaving the country,” Jagdev lamented.
 
 The deceased’s younger brother Baljeet had spoken with Kaur on the phone on April 15. “During the conversation, she seemed happy. A few days before the incident, she told our father that she needed money and he gave her Rs4 lakh,” said Baljeet, who is a web designer.
 
 Investigating officer Jagir Singh said Kaur in her suicide note had stated that she was not satisfied with her life so she had decided to end it. She had maintained that no one was responsible for the drastic step.
 
 “We are investigating call details of her number and waiting for the post-mortem report,” a police officer said.
 
 Box/Blurb
 
 Son told visitors she wasn’t home
 
 Kaur’s 8-year-old son said that while he lived with his dead mother for three days, two people came to their door. However, he didn’t open the gate for anyone. One of the, was the washerman and the other came looking for her mother’s signature. He told them his mother was not home.
 
 
