KOLHAPUR: A five-hour rescue operation gripped residents of Bhutalwadi village in   taluka as foresters and villagers battled to bring out five bison (Indian gaur) stuck in a local well. 

 The herd of bison probably strayed into the human habitation in search of food and water. They accidentally fell into the 40-ft open well on Saturday night and were stuck in the mud. Thankfully, it prevented them from drowning but they could not come out either. 
 
 According to forest officials, the bison entered the agricultural land in Bhutalwadi village located within the   forest area. While crossing from one field to another, they entered an open well belonging to Dhondiba Bhutal. They entered the well from a side that had a slope. Later, they got in the mud and could not come out.
 
 On Sunday morning, Bhutal noticed the animals trapped in the well while entering his field and passed on the information to villagers and forest officials.
 
 “When we saw the situation, we realised that there was only one way to rescue the animals. That was to dig the side of river and reducing the gradient of the slope to help the animals come out. Though the well is 40-ft deep, the animals were standing on a slope that leads into the well. They were stuck in the mud,” said a forest officer. 
 
 The foresters used an excavator and dug the area around the nearby river and removed mud from it. This aided the bison to come out of the well without any problems. “The frightened bison ran into the forest area after they were rescued. No one was injured in the incident,” said a forest official on duty.
 
 Interestingly, villagers in these area regularly face problem of bison attacks. Farmers use firecrackers and other means to ensure that the bison does not enter in their field and attack them. Just a fortnight ago, a senior citizen was mauled to death in a bison attack at the forest officials’ colony at Radhanagari. 
 
 “On Sunday though, the situation was different. All the villagers gathered together to save life of these animals,” he said.
 
 
