MUMBAI: Twenty-seven new leopards have been camera-trapped in the   and its surrounding areas during the forest department’s 2017 census. 

 TOI had reported in December that the number of wild cats had gone up to 41 from 35 in 2015. Only 14 of them matched with the 2015 census database. Besides, there have been seven deaths since the last survey—conservationists say they need not be among the ones spotted in 2015.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Surveyors found seven cubs, but they are not counted in the census as their survival rate is not very high, said Nikit Surve, researcher from   who conducted the survey.
 
 Asked why about 21 from the 2015 database were not sighted in 2017, conservationists said they were probably not in the area during the census, or may have migrated. Some could’ve also died, they added.
 
 While 15 of the 41 leopards sighted now are male, 23 are female and the gender of three has not been established. 
 
 At a press meet on Tuesday, Anwar Ahmed, chief conservator of forests, SGNP, said the main reason the wild cat was thriving was the abundance of food in the form of stray dogs in the park’s periphery. A female leopard with cubs was caught on camera on a hill in Mulund carrying a domestic fowl back to the den. The fowl could’ve been hunted from the hamlets at the base of the hill along the park’s boundary.
 
  is frequented by leopards. Nine leopards were camera-trapped in Aarey in 2017 as against four in 2015. In fact a female leopard (named Luna) has been regularly spotted in Aarey Colony with three cubs. Another female leopard was photographed in   region (Ghodbunder Road) carrying a domestic duck in her mouth hunted from a nearby village. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Conservationists say the growth in leopard population is commendable considering that the park is surrounded by a concrete jungle on practically all sides. 
 
 The census, using camera traps, was first conducted by citizens in 2011. Despite their limited resources, they were able to camera trap 21 leopards. In 2015, the forest department formally conducted a census. Six of the leopards camera-trapped in 2017 have been around since 2011 as they figure in the 2011 and 2015 census database too. 
 
 The survey found that two male leopards have the largest territory and have been present since 2011 but their territories overlap with that of several other leopards. “We are not sure about the reasons for this high overlap in space and more studies are required to understand this phenomenon,” states the report.
 
 Surve said their research indicates that human-leopard interactions are common and often use the same trails to traverse through the forests. The Warli tribals are inhabitants of the forest and have learnt to live with the leopard, states the report.
 
 
