KOLKATA: The   — innocuous though it may seem — has left a   in Kolkata, including a   that has been affecting children.

 Ever since pockets of the city started getting shrouded in a haze from last week, cases of severe respiratory distress, triggered by respiratory tract infection, breathlessness and asthma, have been on the rise. While the elderly, too, have been suffering, it is the severe cough striking youngsters under 12 that has had doctors worried.
 
 “What we take to be fog is actually smog or a polluted mass of condensed water vapour rich in carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and even lead. It is potent enough to trigger a range of respiratory illnesses. Over the last two weeks, innumerable children have been afflicted with this cough that has been defying medication. It has been persisting for more than 10 days, which is unusual,” said paediatrician Santanu Ray.
 
 He added that the smog could be responsible for triggering the cough since it was rich in heavy metal like lead and had a high carbon content capable of precipitating drug-resistant disorders. “Inhaling this polluted air has been taking its toll on citizens. Conventional drugs have either not been working or acting slowly. The suffering has been so severe that many of my young patients have needed hospitalization,” Ray said.
 
 In many cases, doctors have been mistaking the cough as an infection and prescribing antibiotics. But they have failed to provide relief, delaying recovery and adding to the misery, explained  , consultant, general medicine, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS).
 
 “Smog-induced cough is an allergy and not an infection. So, instead of antibiotics, anti-allergy medicines and in severe cases, low-dose steroids would work better. Since smog contains PM 2.5 that easily infiltrate the lungs, pollutants are able to enter the system very quickly. Unlike bacterial or viral infections, pollution-triggered respiratory distress or cough may not be neutralized with conventional drugs,” said Biswas.
 
 Children with asthma have been the worst affected. Many had to be put on nebulizers, said Ray. But it is difficult to prevent the cough since they are exposed to smog on the way to school.
 
 “Those going to school early have been getting the cough more frequently. But it is not easy to detect whether it’s an infection or a pollution-triggered cough. Those with asthma or a tendency to suffer from respiratory distress should use inhalers as a preventive measure,” said a pulmonologist.
 
 PM 2.5 count drops
 The peak winter chill is about to bow out from Kolkata and with it, the city’s PM 2.5 count has dipped. After crossing 300 on 12 out of the first 15 days of January, the PM 2.5 count on Monday slid to 253, according to data collected by the US Consulate monitoring station.
 
 However, even though it was substantially lower than the counts of the last week, it was still rated as ‘very unhealthy’ by the consulate website.
 
