NEW DELHI: “I had started to accept my life in a dingy room with more than 20 people   me every day,” said a timid 17-year-old girl, who had been among the   rescued from two   on   by Special Police Unit for Women and Children and Delhi’s Child Welfare Committee. Today, several months after they were freed, the girls can look at a better future, having been trained as security guards by the   under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana.

 The training, which ended a week ago, has equipped the girls to deal with emergencies that might arise in their jobs, such as dealing with accident victims or with health exigencies. The change in their lives is mainly due to the 17-year-old, who was trafficked to Delhi after she lost her parents in the 2015 earthquake in Nepal. While living with her aunt, she had been lured to travel to Mumbai by a friend and she eventually ended up in a Delhi brothel. She was drugged daily for six months to break her will, but after a year of torture, she became determined to escape. She managed to send out a note explaining her ordeal through one of her customers.
 
 When the brothel owner learnt of this, he shifted camp twice. During the second move, the teenager fled and approached police. The same night, a friend aged 16 was rescued from the brothel. On November 24 last year, another raid was conducted and 16 minor girls were rescued from the same brothel. In a third raid, two more girls were freed.
 
 The girls were sheltered at Nirmal Chhaya complex, where they were counseled. They were then moved to Dwarka Home for Women for protection from their former agents. In March, the girls began a month-long skilling course.
 
 An 18-year-old, who was trafficked to Delhi and ended up as a sex worker, said girls like her had to entertain at least 20 customers every day to be able to get Rs 100 for food. The Rs 330 or so they got per customer went to the brothel operator, said a CWC official. The girl said, “Till a couple of months ago, I was brainwashed into thinking I was good only for prostitution. Now, with my training as a security guard, I have something to fall back on.” 
 
 Jayant Krishna, executive director of NSDC, said the training not only gave the girls a potential source of livelihood, but it also helped them erase the stigma of their earlier lives while boosting their self-esteem. “Through such measures, NSDC wants to inspire other agencies to come forward and enable the mainstreaming of victims and survivors,” Krishna said.
 
 Dr  , chairperson, CWC, said the girls were initially daunted by the training they had to undertake. “But with passage of time, they developed an interest in the programme. They also learnt that there was life beyond those dark alleys,” said Sabarwal. She also said that the need of education could not be emphasised more. Education can help vulnerable girls become forewarned about the dangers of being lured into the sex trade.
 
 A 17-year-old girl, who was trafficked twice, agreed. She stressed that creating awareness among gullible communities was an urgent requirement, saying she would not have fallen into the trap had she been educated. “I still have trust and anger issues, but now I am confident I can do many other things to make a living,” the teenager added. 
 
 
