Tollywoood’s reigning queen   is back with yet another power-packed female-centric role — an attribute that has made her stand out from her peers in the Telugu film industry. This time, she plays the titular role in  . “My character has many different shades to it — a lighter side, a romantic side as well as a fierce streak. The various facets have been shown in a nuanced 
manner,” says   talking about her character. 
 
 Admittedly, it was the intricate nature of the script penned by director Ashok that appealed to her. “There’s something for everyone in Bhaagamathie. There’s suspense, romance, horror and light-hearted moments. Cinematographers (R Madhi and Sushil Choudhary) have done an exceptional job,” reveals the actress.
 Heaping praise on director G Ashok, whom she dubbed as “extremely knowledgeable”, Anushka also reserved special praise for the film’s music (by SS Thaman). “There’s only one situational song in the entire film and music has been used like a character. Music is an extension of everything else that’s going on and we decided to not include the promotional songs, so the flow of the narrative isn’t disrupted,” Anushka shares. 
 
 Dissing speculation, Anushka exhorts that the film has no similarity with  , and says the element of surprise will be the USP in Bhaagamathie. “This isn’t your run-of-the-mill horror flick — there’s plenty more in store for the audience,” she explains.
 
 Besides Anushka, the film also features Unni Mukundan, Jayaram, Asha Sarath and   in important roles, and the actress insists that Bhaagamathie is much more than just an Anushka Shetty film. 
 “There’s so much more to this film than just me. Each character is extremely crucial to this film and forms a key cog in the wheel. All characters are inter-linked, in the sense that without any of them, the film just doesn’t work,” explains the 36-year-old signing off. 
 
 Produced by V Vamsi Krishna Reddy and Pramod under the UV Creations banner, Bhaagamathie releases today worldwide. 
 
