Vijayawada: The police is all set to unleash hell on cricket punters in the city.

 The new season of Indian Premiere League ( ) started on Saturday and the cops have amped up their vigilance drives as they believe this is that period the year when   operations are in full swing.
 
 As part of their groundwork, the cops have compiled a list of known offenders, usual betting dens and possible punters. Further, the informant network in the city is on alert.
 
 Speaking to TOI, city police commissioner D Gautam Sawang, said, “We have been maintaining a close watch on bookies and punters who were booked earlier. In fact, many of them have been asked to give attendance at local police stations till IPL concludes. We are also monitoring hotels and lodges. Owners and managements will be held responsible if betting goes on in their premises.”
 
 Sawang urged the people to pass on information about betting in their neighbourhood. People can reach out to police even if they suspect betting activity by calling on 100. Sawang assured that the identities of those who give information will be kept confidential and they will be rewarded suitably.
 
 It may be noted that the cops have decide to come down heavily not only on the organisers but also the punters and any other third party involed (provision of logistics, communication etc.,).
 
 IPL has been the biggest cricketing season for betting organisers since its began ten years ago. 
 
 Today this scourage is not restricted to the city anymore. Cricket betting has gained significance in satellite towns of Vijayawada and many other villages in Krishna, Guntur and Nellore districts. It is rampant in north coastal Andhra Pradesh.
 
 What is most worrying is that college students are falling prey to this menace.
 
  Engineering and medical college students are indulging to make a quick buck. It was clear that students are fast getting into cricket betting after the death of a B Tech student came to light last year. Initially cops said the youth died of accidental drowning or it was suicide case. However, the forensic report stated that the student was murdered. Further, the youth was aid to be heavily into betting.
 
 The city police cracked many cases last year, especially during the last IPL season. The commissioner’s taskforce sleuths were successful in busting many rackets including three big inter-state networks in the city. 
 
 Even the police in Krishna district busted betting networks in places such as Tiruvuru, G Konduru, Nuzividu, Gudivada and Nandigama. They are now focussing on organised rackets. 
 
 
