NAGPUR: Union minister for road transport, highways, shipping and water resources   suggested the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to set up markets where 100-150 stalls/small shops will be available for women self-help groups (SHGs) and entrepreneurs. 

 Gadkari was speaking at the inauguration of the NMC’s women entrepreneurship summit at Reshimbagh ground on Sunday. Mayor Nanda Jichkar, who was also present at the programme, said the NMC was planning to construct workshop-cum-marketing place for women SHGs and entrepreneurs.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP  , municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh, Sudhakar Kohale, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, deputy municipal commissioner Ranjana Lade, chairperson of women and child welfare committee   and others were also present.
 
 Gadkari suggested the NMC to appoint good architects and plan stalls/shops in markets soon. “NMC is encouraging women engaged in manufacture of various products. Women SHGs have expertise in various fields. Permanent market place can help them in a big manner. The civic should take initiatives like the one at a bus port in Ahmedabad where a floor has been given to women entrepreneurs,” he said.
 
 Giving example of Baba Ramdev-led Patanjali Group, Gadkari urged the women SHGs and entrepreneurs to establish brands by ensuring quality at appropriate cost. “Also, they should ensure to repay loans as it will help them to enhance their credit limit to expand business,” he said.
 
 Claiming that the entire nation will become open defecation free under Swachh Bharat Mission in the next three years, Ganguly said BJP gives equal importance to states ruled by other parties in implementation of various schemes. Indirectly attacking   government in West Bengal, she said government’s schemes are not reaching the people. “There will be a sea change in Bengal if BJP comes to power there,” she said.
 
 Around 300 women SHGs and entrepreneurs have set up stalls at eight-day summit. Various cultural and social activities will also be organized.
 
 
