PATIALA: The Union ministry for environment, forests and climate change has formed a special team to look into the causes behind the May 17   in the Beas river in   which killed thousands of fish. The decision came on a day the state government’s inquiry panel, formed to look into the ecological disaster, submitted its report to Punjab Pollution Control Board chairperson  .

 
 Though Pannu did not reveal the contents of the report as he was in Delhi, sources said the committee concluded the spill was an “accident”. They said a furnace of the sugar mill owned by Chadha Sugars and Industries had burst on that day, resulting in spilling over of molasses. The accident caused a loss of Rs 43 crore to the mill, sources added.
 
 The central team will comprise environmental experts working with the Union government. Though the team’s day of arrival in the state is not clear, an official said it is expected to visit affected areas over the “next few days” . Apart causing the death of thousands of fish and aquatic life downstream, the incident called an ecological disaster by SAD president Sukhbir Badal — has affected the supply of drinking water in several parts of the state and neighbouring Rajasthan too.
 
 It is learnt that the central team would also visit the sugar mill located in Kiri Afgana village, near Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur district. The team will then move on to affected areas and later head for Rajasthan to collect information about damage caused there. Punjab environment minister O P Soni said they had sealed the sugar mill and confiscated the firm’s security deposit of Rs 25 lakh.
 
 “Action will be taken according to the board’s recommendations,” Pannu said.
 
 Pannu added that action against the company would be recommended on the basis of the panel’s report. “The board is also collecting information from executive engineers and has asked them to check if there are any other industries still allowing untreated waste to be discharged into rivers,” Pannu said.
 
 
