INDORE: Keeping absolute secrecy during survey work, the Centre’s observation team on Wednesday started field   under the ongoing Swachha Survekshan 2018. 

 The team members visited many areas of the city to take stock of cleanliness in Indore. They will continue with field survey for two more days and will also take feedback from citizens. 
 
 Sources said that the two-member team, which was examining the documents for the last three days, has on Wednesday completed document verification work and took the same on record as well. The team will return to Delhi. However, another team, which has started conducting field visit, will continue with the survey for the next two days. 
 
 The team members will now assess cleanliness arrangements, including availability of dustbins, sweeping, transportation of waste, door-to-door garbage collection and condition of community toilets, public toilets etc. 
 
 There were many areas, where the   officials expected the team’s visit, but they could not ascertain whether they visited the spot or not. Some of these areas included Rajendra Nagar, Juni Indore, Sarwate bus stand, Rajendra Nagar etc. 
 
 “I saw a man taking picture through a gadget like tablet near the underpass behind Sarwate bus stand. Possibly he was one of the team members, who have come to see the city’s cleanliness status,” said a zone 12 garbage collection van driver.
 
 The city will be divided in four parts and different teams will visit different areas randomly to collect feedback. Thereafter, the team members will take citizens’ feedback on cleanliness. The team members will ask six questions mentioned in a special questionnaire to check as to how much knowledge the citizens have about this survey. 
 
 Civic body officials also remained on toes to put up a good show during the visit of the team in different areas. Senior officials of health and other departments concerned of the IMC were seen working hard to ensure proper cleanliness arrangements in the city. 
 
 “Though we have no information about the inspection of the team, they are expected to make surprise visit so we are all prepared for the same,” said an IMC health official at Sarwate bus stand. 
 
 
