PANCHKULA: Property   payment receipt has become a precious piece of paper for residents of Panchkula. Reason: the municipal corporation ( ) has been sending legal notices for recovery of tax to residents who have already made the payment.

 “Losing the receipt of the deposited property tax will lead to double tax payment. We have even scanned receipt copies and secured them in laptops,” said M L  , resident of Sector 16.
 
 Rakesh Aggarwal, a property owner, said this proves that the MC has not updated records of taxpayers.   said, “The civic body is harassing residents. One such tax notice has been received by me as well and other residents of Sector 12. We have receipts showing property tax for the year 2017-18 has been deposited with the MC, but still notices have been slapped on us.”
 
 Residents alleged they produced the receipts of the tax paid to the MC but were still receiving the notices.
 
 Varinder Garg, another resident, said the MC goof-up has stolen the peaceful sleep of many residents like him.
 
 V K Sharma, owner of a commercial property, said, “I got a shock when the MC served a notice on me four months after I had deposited commercial property tax of Rs 50,000.”
 
 The civic body has also sent property tax notices to 150-odd traders of Grain Market in Sector 20 after 16 years. Traders alleged the MC had never issued any notice demanding property tax since the inception of the market in 2001.
 
 Garg, who is also a trader in the market, said, the MC recently demanded property tax worth Rs 1.75 lakh to Rs 2 lakh from each trader. “Suddenly, the MC wakes up realising they have 150 property tax defaulters in the Grain Market.”
 
 Interestingly, the MC has no records of total property tax to be charged from residents of Panchkula.
 
 Ignore notice if tax paid: MC
 
 Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) commissioner   said, “We have mentioned clearly in the notice that those who have already paid the property tax must ignore the notice. We are in the process of compilation of records and notices sent to such residents who have already paid the tax will be checked.”
 
 
