CHENNAI: First they came for Classes XI and XII, and we did not speak out. After targeting students down the grades, now they’ve come for Class V. 

 Coaching centres for IIT-JEE and NEET have made such an impression on ambitious parents that they are now herding 10-year-olds to ‘smart classrooms’ to teach thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and calculus. Schools are only eager to tie up with these centres to catch them young.
 
 
 
 Father of a Class VI student of Velammal School, Ambattur said the school asked him sign up his son, but he refused. “It’s too early for this kind of training,” he said. Many others felt competition is a compelling reason and pushed their children into the module.
 
  in Chennai has compulsory modules for Classes V, VI and VII for at least two hours a week. It has tied up with TIME institute for integrated training sessions for Class VIII, which is optional. “Our higher secondary school teachers were looped in to chalk out a training module for classes V to VII, and to work within the curriculum. We also have mock examination every month for JEE/NEET,” said B Purushothaman, principal and correspondent of the School.
 
 The schools believe earlier the better, and that it would help conceptual thinking than rote learning. “Instead of doing ‘match the following’, ‘fill in the blanks’ or essays, this is a new kind of learning for them,” said a school representative.
 
 Not all parents agree. “Aren’t children in middle school meant to be doing ‘match the following’? It’s absured they have to be worried about competitive training,” said Arun K, a parent.
 
 Private coaching centres say schools want them more than they want the schools. Winners’ Academy founder   said many schools have been requesting them to train students from Class V even though the academy offers coaching only from Class IX. “Many schools have tied up with multiple institutes,” he said.
 
 Psychologist   said it doesn’t do young students much good. “Children should first be taught life skills. When pushed into such a training regime, qualities like team work take a back seat. This kind of high attention to maths and science also makes students think these are the only important subjects and closes other opportunities for them,” she said.
 
 She has dealt with families where not just parents, but children too wanted early training because of peer pressure.
 
 
