GUWAHATI: The   (EC) has asked the   to increase its presence in the 1643-km-long Indo-Myanmar border to prevent Indian militants based in the neighbouring country from sneaking across the border and creating disturbance in poll-bound Nagaland.

 Nagaland chief electoral officer (CEO) Abhijit Sinha told TOI that security along the inter-state and inter-district borders has been tightened to ensure a peaceful election which is due next month. "The international border is guarded by the Assam Rifles. We have asked the paramilitary force to increase its presence along the border and augment its border outposts," said Sinha. 
 
 Nagaland shares a 215-km international border with Myanmar across which the NSCN(K) is based. The NSCN(K) is the only outfit of Nagaland that is outside the ambit of the ongoing peace process with the Centre.
 
 Sinha added that the situation in the state is normal at present, but the EC is not willing to take chances. "Not just the international border, we have also set up inter-state and inter-district check posts which are under CCTV surveillance," he said. 
 
 The CEO added that the Centre is sending 276 companies of additional central paramilitary forces for poll duty. "About 40 to 50 companies are scheduled to arrive in about three to four weeks. The rest will come later," he said. 
 
 Amid popular demand in the state for postponing the assembly election due next month until the Centre announces a solution to the Naga problem, the EC on Wednesday night published the final electoral rolls that showed a decrease in the number of voters in comparison to the 2013 assembly election following some intensive cleansing of the rolls.
 
 Nagaland is awaiting the outcome of the peace process between the Centre, NSCN(I-M) and six other groups included in the peace process recently to make the exercise all-inclusive. This has prompted the civil society to seek a solution before they cast their votes.
 
 The Union home ministry, however, has taken a firm stand on the matter and said election has to be conducted as per schedule and the peace process will continue simultaneously. 
 
 
