
 One of the finest young actors of today, Alia Bhatt’s fearlessness isn’t limited to the screen. At 25, she is fiercely objective and individualistic about her opinions and life choices, a trait that’s visible in her choice of films, too. Like her outspoken parents — Soni Razdan and Mahesh Bhatt — you admire her urge to express herself earnestly. In Meghna Gulzar’s   (produced by   and Dharma Productions), which has opened to rave reviews, Alia is seen on the screen for the first time with her mom Soni, an accomplished theatre and film actor. On Mother’s Day, BT caught up with the mother-daughter duo to talk about their real-life camaraderie, representation of women in Bollywood today and sharing screen space for the first time in this real story on an unusual spy. Excerpts...

  
  
 
 
 I was so focussed on my role that I didn’t really bother about what she was doing on the set (laughs!). I am very professional and Alia is a lot like me, so we didn’t think of us being mother and daughter on set. Having said that, it helped me to have her around — all the emotions came naturally to me because of that. 
 
 
 Barring the first day, I didn’t really think that I was working with my mom in a film. Also, as far as her career is concerned, I believe that it’s going to restart now. I am already sensing a certain excitement about her in the industry. It’s like, ‘Oh, she is still interested in acting’. I think she will be busier than me in a few years and I will have to wait for her dates (smiles).
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  I don’t believe that marriage stops you from doing other things in life, but it has its own challenges. So, I feel that Alia needs at least five years before she settles down. Actually not ‘settle’ per se, you should keep going. This profession is so demanding, I feel that you need to take your time before making the decision.
 
 
 (cuts in): I don’t like to put numbers to life. It all depends on the timing — right person, right time, right feeling. When I feel I have found the right person who makes me feel, ‘This is it’, I will do it. 
 
 
 
 
 : Now I have a new claim to fame. Wherever I go, people say, ‘Alia Bhatt ki mummy aayi hai’. Chalo, I have suddenly become important and that’s fine. I am very happy to hear that, actually (smiles).
 
 
 : I will always be their daughter first, but yes, I am happy that whatever I had hoped for has happened so fast. That’s why I didn’t start off my career by doing a film for my father. I was 16 when I met Karan. The minute my mom realised Karan (Johar) was interested (in launching me), she knew that it was safe territory. I give her a lot of credit for making the right decisions for me when I was a kid.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : I will answer that! We don’t even live together anymore, but mom still calls me to say, ‘I hope you are going home straight after this (an event).’ We have a family instant messaging group and that’s very entertaining. About money, I have asked my parents to deal with it as it stresses me out. If I get calls from banks, I get more confused. Like mathematics, I just don’t get money handling. It’s one of my pet peeves.
 
 
  I have a ‘find your friends’ app on my phone and both my daughters (Shaheen and Alia) are on it. I am not saying that I am a detective mom, but once in a while, I keep checking on them. I know that it’s exhausting to constantly explain where you are and what you are doing, so I don’t ask her too many questions every day.
 
 
 
 
 i: It’s all relative. She may not have faced the struggles that I did, but it’s tough to be where she is today and to live up to so many expectations. I know that people will say, ‘I’d love to have her kind of struggle with all that money in my bank’. But you cannot understand the pressures of this job until you are in it. When she was younger, it was stressful for her to follow a strict diet and things like that — it would play havoc with her emotional state. Media plays an important role, too. The feedback you get before a film release can be very intimidating.
 
 
 : I feel that as human beings, even if we don’t have problems, we will still find problems to fuss about. It’s solving them that give us true happiness. I might not have the problems of an average 25-year-old girl, but I have other problems that I struggle with on a daily basis. Those who are not part of this industry, might not be able to relate to it, but those who do understand, let me be.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Absolutely! I am happy that Alia has entered an industry, which is ready for her in terms of physicality, roles and mindset. I was a complete anomaly in this business. I didn’t fit into the Hema Malini-Zeenat Aman commercial cinema mould, neither the Shabana Azmi-Smita Patil art cinema mould. It was a miracle that I became an actress. I survived because of hard work and perseverance. Jo bhi mila, le liya... I probably marketed myself all wrong. I had exotic looks, I should have done those glamorous roles that exuded oomph. But in my head, I was always an actress first. I didn’t want to be a sex symbol. That was perhaps my mistake, but you can’t really change who you are.
 
 
 
 
  She is in no way a typical 25-year-old. She hasn’t been a typical teenager or college-going girl either, she never had the chance. She started working from a very young age. Alia is emotionally intelligent and exudes wisdom beyond her years. Her understanding based on instinct is a quality that is rare.
 
 
 
 I think she is a fabulous actor. I remember while I was filming Student Of The Year, during one shot, she told me, ‘Sometimes, doing less is more’ and Mickey Contractor (make-up artist) follows the same mantra. That advice really helped me, because sometimes we think, ‘Expression dena hai toh hum aanth expressions ek shot mein de dete hai’. Doing less and not overacting is what I have learnt from my mom.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  The film choices are mine, but the mindset is theirs. My father is a walking-talking quote book, so I constantly get advice and direction from him. When you are brought up in a house that allows an individual to voice his/her opinion freely, it shapes your thinking.
 
 
  When you have a family that is open to talking about anything, it makes a lot of difference, because you don’t have to hide anything. You don’t have to lead a double life.
 
 
 
 Alia: My mom and I are similar in a lot of ways. We have a certain objectivity when looking at things, as that’s the way we have been brought up.
 
 Soni: It’s not just parents who bring up their children, children bring up their parents, too. At some point, there’s a role reversal. They are the younger generation. They have their ideas and that rubs off on you, which is interesting.
 
 
  
  
 
