HYDERABAD: From meeting medical needs of the poor to educating children from underprivileged families, money collected from Zakat comes as a boon to thousands of people in Hyderabad. The fund has helped many qualify civil services examination. Zakat is also utilised in construction of houses for those below the poverty line, for payment of pensions to widows and distribution of monthly ration .

 
 A novel trend observed in Hyderabad is utilisation of Zakat funds for medicare and food for hundreds of TB patients, who are bed-ridden without any source of livelihood. The money is also utilised for expensive surgeries, which otherwise are beyond the reach of the poor.
 
 With the Islamic holy month of Ramzan all set to conclude in next 12 days, payment of Zakat has picked up. Unlike the past, the money is now channelized for better utilisation and tangible results. As Zakat is donated in secrecy, there is no record on the quantum of money generated through this compulsory charity every year. All well-to-do Muslims are obligated to pay 2.5 per cent of their annual savings towards Zakat. This mandatory charity is also paid on gold, silver and assets. It is estimated that about Rs 200 crore Zakat is collected during Ramzan in the city alone.
 
 “The idea is to promote community engagement in matters pertaining to health and welfare of society, which is neglected. Mosques in Ramzan provide an ideal platform to sensitize the devout towards health and social problems of weaker sections in the city,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari, managing trustee of   (HHF).
 
 Askari told 
  that the HHF initially focussed on providing succour to TB patients, as 70 per cent of new cases in 2017 of TB were reported in urban slums south of Hyderabad.
 
 In a positive sign, more youngsters are reaching out to the needy. Hyderabad Zakat and Charitable Trust announced a new project to educate orphans. Trust chairman Ghiasuddin Babukhan said Rs 4.15 crore was spent on scholarships to students. About 12,000 orphans are covered under the scheme.
 
 With money collected from mosques in   within two days, a door-to-door distribution of ration packs to over 100 TB patients and their families was carried out. Cold water is also supplied for patients and attendants at Government ENT Hospital. About 3,000 people benefit daily. Food is supplied to cancer patients in MNJ Cancer Hospital.
 
