Severin Cabannes, deputy chief executive officer of  , a leading European financial services group, was in India recently. In an interview to TOI, Cabannes talks about the opportunities in the renewables sector and smart cities. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We have been in India since the past 40 years, and we are looking forward to expanding our business here. The relationship between India and France is close and growing, and for French entities and banks like us, it’s a unique opportunity in terms of timing. Our vision is to develop our corporate investment bank activities through serving our Indian clients in their developments outside of India and supporting our international clients for their development in India. We want to be a connecting partner between our international clients and Indian clients.
 
 
 
 The reforms you are mentioning, for example, GST is still progressing. It’s not something that can be implemented instantly. It’s probably the most important and efficient decision that has been made. For an enterprise like us, who are present in different states in India, the faith of a unified market is an absolute necessity.
 
 
 
 The underlying intention of demonetisation was very powerful. The way to achieve the target was not necessarily the only way to get there. Today the 1st impact I see due to implementation of demonetization is the increase in banking deposits, which gave to the banks very cheap resources, which is very positive, which also gave people an additional competitive advantage for the economy with cheaper bank financing.
 
 
 
 I have always been saying the banking regulations in India have always been very strong. We have very good relationships with our supervisors. The question for me in India is the level of non-performing assets. But it is not specific to India; it’s an issue across countries, including some European countries.
 
 
 
 We have just issued first positive impact finance bond. We have been one of the leading banks in the green bond market and we are very wellplaced in that. As an ambition, we fixed for next three years to be structurer or to finance 100 billion of euros of new financing, including bond issuance for our clients in renewables. So, we have 85 billion of new bond issuance and 15 billion direct exposure to renewables on our balance sheet. And when I say renewables, it’s mainly solar and wind. And it’s good time in terms of opportunity when you look at India.
 
 
 
 We want to bring international investors. And we want to structure in a sense or in the form which will be achievable or bankable for international investors. We have the expertise and we are doing that everywhere.
 
 
 
 There’s a big question behind that in terms of smart cities. And, we think that large French multinationals and large banks are really present in all the equations in smart cities. You have water treatment, waste management and that entire necessary infrastructure to bring to the cities. We think that there are some real opportunities for us to accompany our clients in these initiatives. In India, we have also been leading in terms of fleet management and car leasing and there is also the dimension in terms of car management.
 
 We can also bring our expertise to the authorities and players in India. We have a historical presence. We are mainly present in French speaking countries, and I know that India’s relationship with   is more east of Africa and we are more in the north and west part. But there is a lot of opportunity for Indian players also in these parts of Africa. So, we can create a bridge to be a connecting partner between Indian companies, Indian players and also Africa needs.
 
