PATIALA: The doyen of Sufi Kathak dance Manjari Chaturvedi, who learned her early nuances of Kathak dance in Lucknow Gharana, developed her own technique and style in dance around two decades ago. 

 She performed on the fourth day of the Heritage Festival on Saturday and was accompanied by qawwali performer Ustad Ranjhan Ali of Amritsar. 
 
 Manjari was deeply inspired by the submission of  , a Punjabi Sufi Muslim and poet of the 17th century born in Uch village of Bahawalpur, now in Pakistan. “Dance is like a worship, my language, and expression to convey my message about the Bulleh Shah. It’s like a submission to Almighty. People say we just play a character when dancing, but in reality we find that character in ourselves when we dance with a passion for that character, like in my Sufi Kathak, the character ‘Bulleh Shah’s’ love for his ‘ustaad’ inspired me.” 
 
 Born and brought up in Uttar Pradesh, Manjari is an environmental scientist in educational qualification. Seh took her first step towards Sufi dance in 1998 at  . Then in 2000, she launched her own style of dance, which was called the Sufi Kathak.
 
 “In the past 20 years of my career, I have done a lot of work on two things, including the Marrassi community and the Tawaif (prostitutes). I had read a lot on Sufism and the text from Turkey, Iran, Afganistan and Pakistan. Art should not be tagged with any community or person in a derogatory sense.”
 
 Talking about her performances and its significance, she says, “The qawwali like “Othe honge amlaan de naberhe kise ni teri zaat pushni’ are performed on-stage to convey the message of Bulleh Shah that our doings, be it good or bad, will be evaluated by the Almighty and no one will ask about our caste in the court of Almighty. Our society is fixated on castiesm and which is why we need a Bulleh Shah again in these times.”
 
 Manjari made selections of poems of Bulleh Shah like, ‘Ghunghat Chukko Sajna’, ‘Ni Mai Jana Jogi De Naal’, to convey through her dance who Bulleh Shah was as a human, and elaborate on his complete submission for his ‘ustaad’. 
 
 “Everybody might have heard the song on which Madhuri dixit had danced, ‘Mera piya ghar aya’, but hardly anyone knows that it was penned by  ,” said Manjari. 
 
 
