NOIDA: A 37-year-old driver who had eloped with his married   allegedly divorced his wife of 10 years over the phone through   on Monday.

 Kasim, who drives a truck for a living, had been staying with his wife Samman (30) and their seven-year-old daughter at a rented accommodation in Hindon Vihar. Samman’s father Hasan has filed a case at Dadri police station and has appealed to the district magistrate and the Noida SSP for intervention.
 
 The woman’s lawyer said they were exploring legal options too. The Supreme Court had in August last year ruled that the system of giving quick divorce through triple talaq was void, illegal and unconstitutional, and against the basic tenets of the Quran.
 
 Samman’s relatives said that after getting married in November 2007, she and Kasim lived in Khurja in Uttar Pradesh for some time before moving to Hindon Vihar.
 
 Samman’s younger sister  , with whom Kasim eloped and later got married, had tied the knot with Wasim in March last year. 
 
 According to Wasim, Kasim had visited their house in Dadri on October 21 last year. “We had gone to attend a wedding in Gulawati. My wife and younger sister were at home. It was then that Kasim eloped with Rukaiya and also took away cash and jewellery from the house. I did not know Kasim well, I had met him only once after my marriage,” he said.
 
 Sources said Kasim and Rukaiya later got married in the sub-registrar’s office in Ghaziabad, but did not divorce their spouses. Both switched off their phones and went incommunicado for a few days. They travelled to different places and finally visited their native home in Khurja, the sources said.
 
 According to Samman, it was a cousin who informed her that Kasim and Rukaiya had got married.
 
 “I was heartbroken to hear that. On Monday, I called up my husband to clear the issue. He gave me triple talaq and disconnected the call,” she said.
 
 Samman’s lawyer Yusuf Saifi said Kasim had defied the Supreme Court order declaring triple talaq as unconstitutional. “He can’t give triple talaq and get separated from his wife. We’ll take legal action against him,” he said.
 
 Kasim could not be reached for a comment. His elder brother Fahimuddin agreed Kasim had eloped with Rukaiya. “Recently, we came to know that my brother had fled with his sister-in-law. We met Kasim and Rukaiya and told them what they had done was not right. They did not listen to us,” Fakhruddin told TOI.
 
  Wasim said, “My wife and I are not yet divorced.” Nishank Sharma, the circle officer of Dadri police station, said the police were looking into the complaint by Samman’s father. 
 
 
