MANGALURU: Recognising the human resource potential of the coastal city, the  , released by AICC president   here on Friday, promises to make it the next Silicon Valley in the state - if the party comes to power again.

 Shaping Mangaluru as the next Silicon Valley of India and BPO hub of Karnataka is one of the promises   has made under their IT&BT vision.
 
 The manifesto promises that three mega   will be invited to Mangaluru and they will be provided with government-sponsored IT parks. A 3 lakh sqft plug and play co-sharing space capable of accommodating 3,000 people will be a reality if the party wins. Establishing an incubation centre with 50,000 sqft space for working and an equal amount of space for hardware and software development with an area of 100 acres for IT entrepreneurs are also planned. The Dakshina Kannada-specific manifesto also promises increasing the connectivity through air to Europe and the US.
 
 Similarly, the Congress promises air connectivity between Mangaluru and Hubballi besides taking up expansion of Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) runway. Their manifesto states that the runway at MIA will be extended from 2,450m to 3,050m, if Congress comes to power. The manifesto also commits strengthening of New Mangalore Port.
 
 The Karnataka Manifesto Mysuru Region 2018-2023 released by AICC president Rahul Gandhi here on Friday focusses on development of infrastructure, industrial development, tourism, employment and skilling, IT & BT, urban development, transportation, education, law and justice, governance and health and nutrition in the district.
 
 The district-specific manifesto emphasizes for the implementation of solid waste management (SWM) facilitated at the source itself. Further, it aims at exempting SWM cess for the buildings implementing waste management solutions aimed at 0% waste.
 
 Doubling the railway tracks from Mangaluru to Mumbai and Mangaluru to Bengaluru is found mention in the manifesto. Conversion of state highways into national highways and main district roads into state highways is proposed for better management of roads in the state. The manifesto aims at ensuring mandatory compliance of Ground Water Conservation and Regulatory Act, adoption of green building concept and restoration of lakes.
 
 Tourism to get a leg up
 
 On development of beaches, the manifesto proposes development of river-front recreational areas and construction of permanent sea protection against sea erosion. Expediting the construction of flyover planned to ease traffic congestion at   and Mahaveer Circle in the city. The Congress sets a goal of upgrading Mangaluru railway stations into International level to give boost to the economy of the region.
 
 For the development of industrial development, the party proposes to earmark 3,000 acres for mega industries in Dakshina Kannada. To promote tourism, Sasihithlu Beach will be developed as a surfing beach. A separate Karavali Tourism Development Authority has been planned to promote uniqueness of coastal tourism.
 
 Setting up a high court bench, a long pending demand of advocates in the region, also found mention in the Congress manifesto.
 
 
