From political satires to family drama, the plays performed at the fifth edition of   were examples of theatrical brilliance. Organised by   at   for Performing Arts, Mandi House, the five day festival saw participation of fifteen colleges of Delhi that performed fifteen stage plays and fifteen street plays.

  
  'The Lost Clown', a street play performed by students of   Delhi Technical University for Women, talked about emotional hygiene and depression 
 
 Maitreyi College won the best stage production for its play Ka Se Bhai, while Old Wives Tale of Daulat Ram College won the second prize in the same category. Among street plays, Phansi Tantra of Shaheed Sukhdev College was adjugded the best street play and The Cool Guys of Janki Devi Memorial College won the second spot. Participants Tapan Kosh from   and   from Daulat Ram College won the titles of best actor and actress, respectively. Abhinav Sharma from Zakir Hussain College was adjudged the best director for the play Akee.
 
  
  Delhi Technological University presented the street play Tript on substance abuse
 
  
  Kilkari, a play on child labour performed by students of Rajdhani College
  
 
 The students gave their best, making it difficult for the judges to choose the winners. Faizan Bahroop, one of the three judges, said, "The festival saw some of the most brilliant performances by various student groups. It was apparent from the performances that they have worked really hard as all the plays were well-researched. It was difficult for us to choose the best among so many brilliant performances. We used a unique way to pick the best performances. After seeing the positive aspects of their performances, we concentrated on the negatives and the one with the least negative points was declared the winner."
 
 Like every year, a few plays were disqualified for neglecting the rules and regulations of the competition. "Three plays were disqualified as they crossed the time limit. Some of the disqualified plays were so good that they could have won if they would have abided by the rules," said Bahroop.
 
 
 Priya Sinsinwar, member of Abhivyakti, the theatrical society of Maitreyi College, said, "It was great to compete with the best theatre societies of   and other universities in the city. Competitions like these not only give us a platform to showcase our talent but also help us raise issues of national importance."
 
  
  
 
 Vanshika Rathore, member of Anukriti, Hindi dramatics society of Miranda House, said, "It was overwhelming to perform at this fest. The crowd was very receptive. The topic of our play was about breaking the gender binary and it received a great response. It informed about the section in our society who belong to neither men nor women, who don’t have any disease or disorder but suffer from discrimination."
 
 
  
  Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College presented a comedy, 'Jo Tum Chaho', that tickled the funny bone of the audience
 
  
  
 
  
  A scene from the play 'Old Vibes Tale' by Daulat Ram College
 
 
  
  
 
  
  Phansi Tantra by Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies 
 
 
  
  Wasiyat by Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma college
 
 
  
  'Who Am I' by Hindu college
 
 
 
  
 
 
