NAGPUR: A peon of Dhanwate National College (DNC) had filed a case 14 years ago to get six days of pay, a total of Rs900, which had been deducted even though he had sanctioned leave. The complainant is today an assistant professor with a different college, but the decision in his favour by Nagpur University’s (NU) highest decision making body — the   — is yet to be implemented by DNC.

 The complainant, Amol Raut, recently again reminded NU about DNC’s reluctance to shell out the pay, despite the final order being announced in 2012. Raut was working as peon with DNC, and had got leave sanctioned by his department head for research work. But principal Baban   treated his absence as leave without pay.
 
 Coming from a poor financial background, Raut had joined the college as peon on daily wages in 1992. He continued studies at the same college while working. He completed his BA from DNC and completed his MA as an external student. Then, he registered for PhD at Barkatullah University, Bhopal. For research work, he had to travel to   and had applied for leave from December 7 to 12, 2003.
 
 However, he couldn’t join on December 13 and applied for two more days leave. However, Taywade refused to sanction the leave, and treated all six days as without pay.
 
 After the college did not heed to his pleas, Raut moved NU grievances committee in 2004. On September 17, 2007, the committee upheld Raut’s appeal and recommended restoration of pay worth Rs900 (approx). On October 18, 2012, the Management Council approved the committee’s decision and directed the college to implement it within 15 days.
 
 However, DNC has not implemented the 2012 ruling till date, and NU has turned a blind eye towards the issue despite its own notification warning colleges in such cases. As per the 2009 notification, NU had warned colleges that it would not entertain any proposal from colleges that fail to adhere to grievances committee and Management Council orders. However, during this period, DNC has not just continued to enjoy privileges but also got permissions to start new courses.
 
 In his letter dated January 30, Raut has sought to know the action taken by NU against Taywade, who is superannuating this month-end.
 
 DNC principal Baban Taywade labelled Raut as a habitual complainant. “Our local management committee meeting is scheduled for this month-end and we will deliberate over the issue. This is the only case in which ruling came in his favour. There have been six other complaints by him. He may go to court if he wishes so.”
 
 VC SP Kane admitted that he had received Raut’s reminder. “I have forwarded it to the concerned department for putting up the file in proper format,” Kane said.
 
 
