MADURAI: The recent appointment of the joint registrar (finance) of  , T Vengadesan as registrar of the   ( ) has been challenged before the Madras high court Madurai bench.

 Madurai-based advocate N Annadurai who filed the plea prayed that the court pass an interim injunction restraining Vengadesan from discharging his functions and also to ask the vice-chancellor of TNNLS, its executive council and selection committee represented by its chairman/ vice-chancellor, on what authority he continues to hold the office.
 
 The TNNLS executive council purportedly appointed him as registrar on the basis of the supposed recommendations of the selection committee. He claimed that the appointee did not fulfil the eligibility criteria for the post of registrar. He did not have the mandatory qualification prescribed under Section 14 (2) of the TNNLS Act, the petitioner said.
 
 As per the section, the holder of the registrar’s post should be an academician in the field of law not lower in rank than that of the principal of government law college or a professor of a university who has put in a service in such capacity for a period not less than three years or an officer of the government not lower in rank than that of the deputy secretary to the state’s law department. 
 
 But, he did not fall under any one of those three categories. His service (deputy registrar at University of Delhi) could not be stated to be that of an officer of the government. Thus, it was clear that he was holding the post without having the eligibility criteria and his continuation of holding the office was without any authority of law, he said. 
 
 The petitioner further said that when the statute prescribed something to be done in a particular manner, it should be done in that manner and not otherwise. The post of registrar was a statutory placement, which was a very unique post, expected to discharge special statutory provisions and more duties. Hence, the registrar who was not even having the basic eligibility criteria should not be allowed to hold such an esteemed post, he said.
 
 When the case came up for hearing before justice R Suresh Kumar, the additional advocate general ( ) sought time to get instructions from the authorities concerned. 
 
 The AAG also said that the counter, if need be, would also be filed along with relevant files pertaining to the selection and appointment of Vengadesan. Following it, the court adjourned the case to April 26.
 
