GURUGRAM: Over 100  , mainly comprising shops and hutments, built along the master road were   in sectors 82A and 83 on Thursday during a joint drive by Huda and the department of town and country planning (DTCP).

 According to assistant town planner (ATP) Narender Kumar, around 60 shops were constructed illegally on a 500m stretch along the dividing road of sectors 82A-83. Besides, nearly 50   hutments were built within a 200m radius of the road, where labours were living in small and unhygienic rooms. All these illegal structures were razed to the ground during a 3-hour drive.
 
 Kumar further said most of the illegal structures were in unacquired pockets along the master road. “The department will not allow any kind of illegal and unplanned development in new sectors.”
 
 The assistant town planner added that those hutments were given on rent to labours, working at various construction sites in the area. Rules say a developer should construct hutments with all basic facilities for labourers working for it. Kumar said the department would investigate whether developers, who are working on different projects in the area, had provided accommodation to their labourers.
 
 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said, “The crackdown was part of our ongoing anti-encroachment drive to keep new sectors free from encroachments and unauthorised structures.” He further said they would carry out similar demolition drives in other sectors too to clear illegal construction. Sources said there was enough pressure from influential people but the DTCP and Huda officials “ignored phone calls” and demolished the structures despite resistance from land owners.
 
 Officials claimed the department had razed illegal structures in this particular area last year too, following a complaint filed by residents on the CM Window. However, within a few months, fresh structures were raised illegally. The department then issued notices to land owners in October 2017, which was challenged before the Town and Country Planning Tribunal.
 
 On February 7, the tribunal passed an order in favour of the department, observing that structures were raised in violation of the norms without any approval. Armed with the tribunal’s order, a team of the enforcement wing of DTCP, along with Huda officials, cracked down on the squatters again on Thursday.
 
 Huda’s sub-divisional engineer HS Jakhad said a total of 10 acres was cleared. “Shops constructed in a row was spread over 4 acres while workers’ hutments were constructed on 5 acres ,” said Jakhad.
 
 
