Chandigarh:   have targeted five temples in the Tricity since January, highlighting how the places of worship are becoming a soft target.

 Sant Kumar Jain, general secretary of the Jain temple in Sector 27, said both the temples were covered with more than three dozen CCTV cameras, had watchmen and employees, but still the accused entered them and easily fled with silver ornaments, showing their lack of fear of police.
 
 Harbhushan Gulati, president, Sanatan Dharam Temple Committee, said decorating the idols of gods and goddesses with gold and silver items was not safe now. The committee would call a meeting of members and take a decision on replacing the jewellery items with artificial ones, Gulati said.
 
 Cops, on their part, said temples, gurdwaras, mosques and other religious places are open for everybody. “Anybody can visit them during daytime, make a plan and then strike at nights,” they said.
 
 The temple authorities have begun checking 15 days old CCTV footage to identify the accused as they believe they could have visited the two temples during daytime for recce.
 
 Officials of Sita Ram temple in Sector 19, which was burgled in the early hours of Tuesday, had changed the gold crowns with artificial gold-plated crowns, managing to save jewellery worth lakhs of rupees.
 
 On July 2, 2017, the police arrested a devotee of Sai temple in Sector 29 and his accomplice for stealing ornaments worth around Rs 10 lakh. Accused Amarjit Singh was a frequent temple visitor. Police recovered stolen items worth Rs. 3.47 lakh from his possession.
 
 4 Reasons Why Temples Are Easy Targets
 
 Easy accessibility | Anybody can visit temples. Criminals are aware about the positioning of cash boxes, CCTV cameras and employees
 
 Non-functional CCTV cameras | In most of the temples, CCTV cameras are not working or are not positioned at the main points
 
 Untrained security guards | Most of the temples do not have any security guards, while those on duty are not properly trained
 
 High amount of valuables| Miscreants are aware temples have large amount of gold and silver jewellery
 
 
