KOCHI: There has been increase in the number   over the past three years. In 2015, 1,392 fires occurred in the district; it rose to 1,555 in 2016 and in 1,970 in 2017. In the first five months, 1,137 fires were reported in Ernakulam. Officials attributed the increase to rapid urbanisation and deforestation of green belts in the district.

 “More buildings are coming up after clearing trees and this has resulted in an increase in temperature and there is always a higher possibility of fires especially in areas where mandatory fire prevention measures are not adhered to. Most of these cases are reported in summer when there is a rise in temperature and bushes in the neighbourhood catch fire. We also get many cases where fire is caused due to short-circuits in buildings. Many small scale industrial units are located in old buildings and they lack good electrification work and firefighting system, said V Sidhakumar, assistant divisional officer, fire and rescue services in Ernakulam.
 
 New buildings carry out electric work properly and the department gives the   only after buildings install extinguishers as mandated under national building code.
 
 In many cases, fires happen due to   leakages in residential areas. Fire was also reported from Kalloorkkad and Koothattukulam area as rubber sheets catch fire when people dry them above the oven. Officials said they have asked industries functioning in industrial units to set up green belts around factories to prevent fire. “If waste is thrown around it can also lead to fire. We have also asked people not to dump waste around industrial units. We have asked units in Kalamasserry to set up green belts,” said district industries officer Biju P Abraham.
 
 “Fire hydrants are a viable option as we get access to water immediately. But in Ernakulam, fire hydrants have become a thing of the past. Only two hydrants are available in Aluva and Muvattupuzha. It is very necessary to have these facilities in the city where there is big traffic blocks,” said divisional officer P Dileepan.
 
 
