PANAJI: A green corridor created by the Goa police helped doctors to transport the kidneys and liver of a brain-dead patient from Bambolim to Dabolim airport, a distance of 30 km, in record time of 24 minutes on Friday afternoon. The organs were immediately flown to a Mumbai-based hospital for transplant.

 
  
  
 
 The  , B Sadashiv Rao, 60, was admitted to   hospital two days ago after he suffered a brain hemorrhage. “His condition was irreversible, which fact was made known to his family. The kin later decided to donate his multiple organs,” said Shekhar Salkar, chief clinical officer of the hospital.
 
 “Accordingly, we informed the Mumbai-based Regional   and   (ROTTO). A team of doctors led by Dr Prashanth Rao, a liver transplant surgeon, landed in Goa on Friday and started harvesting organs at 12noon. 
 
 The procedure was completed at 3.40pm,’’ Salkar informed. While harvesting was on, simultaneous preparations had begun at Parel-based Global hospital for liver transplant on a recipient finalized by the Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation.
 
 “Since we don’t have permission either to transplant or harvest organs of a brain-dead person, we approached the health secretary Ashok Kumar seeking his consent for retrieval. Within two hours, we got his consent,” said Salkar.
 
 “Once the permissions came through for harvesting organs, the team of Mumbai-based doctors reached airport at 3am. However, they missed a commercial flight and had to charter a flight to reach Goa,’’ he said.
 
 “A chartered Beechcraft king Air B200 aircraft touched down at Goa international airport from Mumbai at 10.57am. The aircraft was given priority parking near the vehicle entry gate manned by the Navy,” an airport official said.
 
 “This was to reduce the time taken by the ambulance carrying the organs,” the official.
 
 While liver transplant was carried out today itself, Salkar said the kidney transplant will be carried out on Saturday after recipients are decided by the transplant organization. The kidney harvested for transplant has a short preservation time of up to 72 hours.
 
 BOX: What is a green corridor?
 
 A green corridor refers to a route that is demarcated and cleared out for an ambulance carrying harvested organs. The objective is to ensure that the in-transit organ arrives at its destination in the shortest time possible.
 
 The requirement for something like this arises from the fact that organs generally have a short preservation time which means that there are only a few hours within which the entire process, right from harvesting and transportation to the final transplantation surgery, must be completed.
 
 (With inputs from Murari Shetye and  )
 
 
