HYDERABAD: The   on Wednesday found fault with city revenue officials for recording a private property at   as government property and describing inhabitants as encroachers while seeking to evict them under the land encroachment Act. The bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice K   was shocked to hear the argument of the state counsel, who said their town survey land record (TSLR) prepared between 1963 and 1976 listed the property in question as ‘G’ in a column, meaning that it was government land. “You will mark G for my house and I have to run around courts to prove my title. Instead, better you go to a civil court and prove your title and till then maintain status quo on the land, a fuming CJ told the state.

 
 
  
 
 
 The bench was hearing an appeal filed by Telangana government against an order of a single judge, who too found the state version unacceptable and ruled in favour of  , owner of the private property at Nampally. He claims to be the absolute owner of properties bearing Municipal Nos. 5-7-232/A and No. 5-7-233 admeasuring 558 sq yards and 870 sq yards respectively at Aghapura, Nampally mandal. His father bought it from one   in 1955 through a registered sale deed. Government Pleader (GP) for revenue department, K Durga Reddy said their TSLR column 10 shows the area as NIL area that has no survey number and hence it has to be government land. Also column 20 of the same record describes property as ‘G’. This means this is government land, state counsel said.
 
 The bench raised a query as to why a 1955 registered sale deed could not find mention in the town survey that took place a decade later. It also said though the sale deed particulars were not mentioned in TSLR, one of its columns did mention the name of Fatimunnisa Begum, showing her as the owner of the property. “Why was her name recorded in the column if she has got nothing to do with the land,” the bench asked. Appearing for Kamal Kishore Agarwal, senior counsel   told the bench that the ‘G’ entry is not conclusive proof to say this was government land. “In fact ‘enjoyers’ (possessor of land) column of the same TSLR carries the name of my client,” he said. The bench said showing a mere capital letter (G), authorities cannot throw away people. “That would be a dangerous trend. Show us something other than this G to say this is government land,” the bench said and asked state counsel to approach a civil court and prove its title if it chooses to do so.
 
 Though the government pleader for revenue argued that state cannot be asked to approach a civil court, the bench brushed aside his views. “If you don’t approach a civil court within four months,” the order of the single judge would become operational, the bench told the state counsel.
 
