Nagpur: “Diversity is a measurement for society. However, we don’t understand the complexity of diversity and so we fall prey to the false idea of diversity portrayed in mendacious propaganda. Therefore, everyone, whether afflicted by discrimination or not, must open a dialogue on this issue,” said  , an international human rights activist, on Saturday.

 Yengde is a member of the department of African and African American Studies at Harvard University, USA, and is currently leading the ‘India for Diversity’ campaign and will hold symposia in various cities that started from Nagpur. 
 
 Delivering a talk on the subject, organized by Babasaheb Ambedkar National Association of Engineers (BANAE) at Ambedkar Sanskrutik Bhavan, Yengde said, “We live in a society which has been harbouring profound differences. We do want to embrace each other’s differences, but exclude them instead. The model of differences is perpetuated when we exercise our rights as Indians.” 
 
 Yengde talked about the data he acquired from various sources showing over-representation of Hindu upper castes and underrepresentation of Schedule Castes, Scheduled Tribes, other backward classes, women and minorities in the fields of education, politics, law and media, besides others.
 
 “In our colleges and universities, only about 5% of the faculty are women while there are about 8% SCs, 6% STs and 9% OBCs. The situation is no better in private institutions either which guaranteed indiscrimination in education,” he said. “Upper caste Hindus are clearly over-represented in politics and we can see who is influencing public policy and in whose favour the government redirects national resources,” said Yengde.
 
 Yengde pointed out a similar situation in mainstream media. “Unsurprisingly, key persons in the media are not dalits. Dailies run by dalits are almost non-existent. Some dalit-run periodicals which do exist are fringe and often with literary emphasis and have limited influence beyond the circle that produced them,” he said.
 
 “There is no mainstream dalit opinion. As if they don’t have adequate potential to comment on current economic condition or lack of acumen for politics. Unless a dalit women is raped or a dalit is killed, you don’t see one featuring on opinion shows. They are relegated to the life of dalits and are made untouchables of public opinion,” said Yengde.
 
 
