Nagpur: Noted author   will receive Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad’s coveted Mrityunjay Award for her latest literary work Bhrigunandan, based on the mythological character Parshuram.

 The award carries a cash prize of Rs8,000 and a citation. It will be presented at a ceremony to be held in Pune on May 26.
 
 A recipient of many awards from Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, Abhivyakti and Padmaghandha Foundation for her earlier works on Maharana Pratap and Dronacharya, Sudame says, “Awards are a recognition for the work that one does. But Mrityunjay award is special as it has been instituted by acclaimed littérateur Shivaji   in memory of his mother Radhabai Sawant. When I was writing my first novel Pranveer Maharana Pratap, it was Sawant who guided me.” Mrityunjay award is given for writings based on history, mythology and Vedic scriptures.
 
 Tales of bravery impress Sudame the most. “My two brothers have been officers in Indian navy and air force. Otherwise too, I have very strong feelings of nationalism. Characters who fought for some principals impress me the most,” she says.
 
 Sudame has also authored books on Dronacharya and Kabir. “Google was not there in 1987 when I began my research. I took eight years to research Maharana Pratap and visited Rajasthan innumerable times,” she says and adds, “I met Arvind Sinji Mewar, the 34th descendant of Maharana Pratap, visited the archeological department there and read about him at the library of Maharana Pratap Research Foundation.”
 
 Sudame says that a lot of hearsay surrounds historical and mythological figures. “As I studied these characters a very different picture emerged.” A teacher who taught at the Lokanchi Shala for twenty years and later at the Sinhghad University in Pune, Sudame says that the character of Dronacharya attracted the novelist in her. “A teacher cannot do the lowly things that have been attributed to him. During my research I read what   had written. In those days, there was no caste system and Eklavya was turned away by   as his kingdom was next to that of Kauravas and Bhishma had told Dronacharya that the borders had to be protected,” she says.
 
 In her novel on Parshuram, Sudame has brought out the positive aspects of the sage’s personality. “He was a great civil engineer and he laid the foundation of civilization in the region from Kutch to Kerala. These facts are rarely known as we don’t question and believe everything that is told to us. I have chosen the novel format for my writings so that the reader finds it interesting,” she says.
 
 Her next novel will be on  , the Vaka Taka queen who ruled for 20 years in the 3rd century AD. “A lot of research has been done on this subject by Vasudev Vishnu Mirashi and B.R. Andhare. I will be visiting the areas in Mansar and Ajantha for this book,” she informs.
 
 
