Bengaluru: Citizens have to brave the sun and wind while they wait to board buses by the roadside. Most  , wherever they exist, are rusted, roofless and poorly lit, posing a threat to commuters. Two years after   floated tenders to construct 2,212 shelters to replace the old ones, only 169 are ready. 

 While the BBMP blames logistical and procedural issues and opposition from citizens for the delay, mobility activists say the civic agency lacks commitment. Only 2,500 of the 8,000 bus stops in the city have shelters, according to Vinay Sreenivasa of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike.
 
 “There is no willingness on the part of BBMP to speed up work, as is being done in case of projects like whitetopping. While we welcome the construction of toilets along with the shelters, the project should have been planned better, keeping the underground drainage (UGD) and sanitary connections in mind,” he said.
 
 Tenders to build 2,212 shelters were floated under four categories: A,B,C and D. But there have been no takers for 562 bus shelters under Package A, reserved under the SC/ST category, despite tenders being issued thrice. “We have sent the Package A file to the social justice and welfare committee, and we have to see if they will allow an exemption,” said a senior Traffic Engineering Cell (TEC) official.
 
 Work on the remaining 1,650 shelters is progressing. Of them, 169 are in place, as per data provided by BBMP Traffic Engineering Cell. “The work orders were issued in March, and since then the companies have been ready to instal the structures. These 2,212 shelters will replace the older, dilapidated ones first set up by BMTC,” the official said, adding that they are expected to be ready in eight months.
 
 Citizens not on board: Palike
 
 Ironically, the resistance to construct bus shelters comes from citizens who don’t want these structures coming up in front of their houses or commercial establishments. “We get 3-4 calls every day on an average from the public, asking us to shift the shelters elsewhere,” the official said. The locations were decided after joint inspections by both the agencies concerned, BMTC and BBMP. 
 
 The project is also touted to be a money spinner for the Palike, and is being carried out under the design, build, operate and transfer model. BBMP will be earning Rs 45,000 per annum from each bus shelter, besides the advertisement tax.
 
 “About 20%-30% of the shelters under each of the packages are supposed to have toilets. For this, we need a UGD and water connection, which is taking some time. In a few cases, there is no UGD connection on the main road, so we approached other establishments to know whether they were willing to share their line. However, no one is ready to do so,” said the official.
 
 Madeena Taj, a garment worker and regular bus commuter, says that barring the city’s core areas, bus stops elsewhere are broken or rusted. “Bus stops in places inhabited by the affluent are in a good condition, but that’s not the case elsewhere. There are no toilet or water facilities, and in many areas, there is no shelter whatsoever, with people taking refuge under trees. For many young women, these bus stops are unsafe places, where they are at the risk of facing sexual harassment,” she said.
 
 While the BBMP may be building these shelters, she says, they may end up not being used as in some areas, bus drivers don’t even stop at the right place. “They just stop the bus wherever they want to, before or after the designated spot,” she rued.
 
 THE BREAK-UP
 
 *No. of shelters to be built: 2,212 (562 under Package A and 550 under packages B,C and D)
 
 *No. of shelters completed: 169
 
 *Annual rent to be paid to BBMP: Rs 45,000 + advertisement tax
 
 *20%-30% of the shelters under each package to have toilets
 
 Source: BBMP
 
 　
 
 　
 
 　
 
 
