What gives someone the right to comment on what happens behind a closed bedroom door? 

 Why curb people’s natural sexual orientations with laws like IPC section 377? The reason is nothing but unequal rights and as long as it remains so, sexual preferences will remain a subject that’s constantly talked about, says Delhi-based choreographer Mandeep Raikhy. And he has not just been talking about it, but protesting against it through his creative medium, dance.
 
 Mandeep’s creation titled  , a travelling contemporary dance performance that was staged across 21 cities for 52 performances last year, will be organised in Kochi in association with   this weekend. The show involves two men, dancer Lalit Khatana and Mandeep himself, who engage with each other over a charpoy and the two-hour 30 minutes show plays out in three loops of 45 minutes each. Apparently, it even invites the audience to move around during the play, watch it from different positions or even enter and leave any time they like!
 
 “The performance has a non-linear narrative and we use our bodies to convey the physical and emotional connection between two male bodies. There is no story-line and each of the loops has similarities, but also differences in the way we improvise, set the background and more. We dance to a sound score that resonates the pulse of the body,” explains Mandeep, who has reasons to not work in a traditional format. “I have worked with a few such productions and they have their limitations. I want to take it to the maximum audience possible, and for that, I guess such a format is what suits the best,” he explains. Queen-size, as it can be guessed, refers to the size of the bed. “The performance poses questions around spectatorship, privacy and dissent, deliberately making this encounter visible,” says Mandeep, who has a BA (Hons) in dance theatre from London and has worked with Shobana Jeyasingh Dance Company for several years. Some of his other famed works include Geometry and Antenne.
 
 A gay man himself, he felt inspired to come up with Queen-size after reading a write-up by the late gay activist Nishit Saran in 2000, which was titled Why My Bedroom Habits Are Your Business. “It might have been written about 18 years ago, but is still relevant and I feel deeply connected with the issues and causes he wrote about. As for our performance, the reactions we get from different people range from transformation to anger. There are also those who came up to us saying they felt baffled, uncomfortable and more,” openly admits the artiste, who has been to Kerala as part of the International Theatre Fest in 2016. 
 
