JAMSHEDPUR: Elated on receiving  , noted tribal activist   said the recognition will encourage him to work for the under-privileged communities with renewed vigour.

 Eightynine-year-old Hansda said the prestigious medal is the recognition of his untiring service to lift the under-privileged communities from poverty, illiteracy and social evils in the remote areas of  , Odisha and  .
 
 "I have received several recognitions at the district, state and national levels but the Padma award has special significance for me," said Hansda, adding that educated people from the community should come forward and work passionately to improve the lives of the tribal people. A retired professor, Hansda said: "God has been kind to me all through my life. My zeal to work for the under-privileged comes from my philosophy of giving back to society."
 
 "Social evils such as witch hunting continue to plague the tribal communities but unless educated people from within the communities come forward and join hands with the villagers to mitigate the menace, nothing will change," Hansda said. 
 
 Octogenarian Hansda said he will continue writing articles in newspapers centred on issues relating to total empowerment of tribal communities.
 
 "There hasn't been much improvement in the lives of the tribal people in our state and in adjoining states of Bengal and Odisha. A lot of area still remains to be covered as far as socio-economic improvisation is concerned," Hansda said. 
 
 The noted literary figure who also contributed immensely to Santhali literature said, "Education is the key to progress and development but people living in the forests and foothills are ignorant of it."
 
 Many from the tribal communities also hailed the move to honour Hansda with the Padma award. "He is a father figure for the community and to honour him with Padma Shri is an occasion to celebrate," said working president of International Santhal Council, Naresh Murmu. 
 
 Santhali writer, Ravindernath Murmu said, "Padma award to Hansda is the recognition of selfless service put in by him to improve the lives of the poor tribal people.
 
 
