MUMBAI: More than 8,000 villages in the state have reported below 50% of average   during   season, but relief has only been extended to nearly 300 (nearly 4%) of them. Thanks to the new stringent  , under which   can only be sought only in case of ‘severe’ drought. And experts have pointed out that the new indicators for ‘severe’ drought category are impractical.

 While nearly 3,500 of these villages are in the drought-prone   region, none of them has been declared as drought-hit as per the new rules. Most villages in Marathwada faced 45 days of dry spell which affected the crop production, and erratic showers of receding monsoon led to crop losses. 
 
 Crop productivity is measured in a unit called paisewari (average yield) and if the average yield is less than 50 paise, the government can declare those villages as drought hit. Average yield of the crops is determined by crop cutting experiments across the state. Till 2016, crop yield was one of the major factors for declaring drought, but that has now changed following the new guidelines from the central government.
 
 TOI has, in a series of reports, reported about the stringent norms set by the Centre. The manual for drought management, 2016 has listed 4 indicators and 13 sub-indices for declaring drought, and has left the states to deal with ‘moderate’ drought. 
 
 Under the new rules, which were applied this year, only 3 talukas or nearly 300 villages in Gondia district of Vidarbha have been found to be ‘moderately’ drought affected, and the state government will extend relief measures only in these villages. Revenue department officials said that if the old drought norms were to be in effect today, all of the 8000 villages would have been considered drought-affected.
 
 "Earlier paisewari was one of the main criteria on which drought would be declared. The new manual doesn't consider that as benchmark," said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. 
 
 One of the main indicators as per the new manual is reduction of area under crop by 50% which never happens, say officials. Farmers never keep their farms barren, sowing always happens in the hope for the weather to pick up . “The manual doesn't account for loss due to weather related issues post-sowing," said an official. Officials said local political representatives have upped their demands to declare drought like situation in these areas, but the state government is not in a position to dig deep into its own pockets. 
 
 After much outrage and TOI’s report, the state government has written to the Centre seeking relaxation in the norms. Even if the Centre relents, it will only come in to effect only next year.
 
 
