HYDERABAD:   ( ) has developed a new technique to conserve water to boost groundwater table. The new technique was successfully implemented at OU’s sprawling campus spread over 1,627 acres. It also works during scanty rainfall and deficit monsoon.

 The technique was developed by OU’s civil engineering department. As part of the technique, OU researchers utilised ARC-GIS software to prepare topographical, drainage and contour maps, land use pattern and land cover map, to identify the spots for rainwater harvesting. They also prepared soil map, basin map and slope map to ensure the entire quantum of rainfall goes into the ground through rainwater harvest structures. Other pertinent data such as rainfall and run-off data was acquired from   (IMD) to develop the model.
 
 “The extracted data was analysed and it was found from the soil map that lithic (rock) contact appears after 40 cm from the surface on OU campus. Surface rainwater harvesting was found appropriate. Based on the contour map, land use and land cover map including basin map, suitable points were identified to construct rainwater harvesting structures. Hydrologic (water) analysis was done and rainwater harvesting structure was designed as per standard design guidelines,” according to the project report.
 
 
 This technique serves as a role model to other universities to implement rainwater conservation. The extent of vegetation, built-up area and water bodies on OU campus were also taken into consideration.
 
 
 The streams on the campus are seasonal in nature and remain dry in off seasons. The total run off generated on 1,627-acres of campus was determined by   run off curve number method. The land use is pasture and treatment practice is taken as contoured since the area is flat. As 50-70% of the area is covered with vegetation, the hydrological condition is fair too, said the report.
 
 
 “During the study, three locations were identified on the campus for harvesting rainwater. There is no need for overflow structure as all the locations have buffer storage,” said N  , professor in the department of civil engineering, OU.
 
 
 The report on rainwater conservation was submitted at a seminar ‘water scarcitypossible water wars in future’ held in the city recently. The report was published in the journal of the   (India).
 
