THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first meeting of Loka Kerala Sabha (LKS), the newly formed forum to find solutions to socio-economic problems of non-resident Keralites and to ensure their participation in the state’s development, will also act as a showcase for the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Pravasi Chitty, Pravasi Lottery and NRK Welfare Fund Board.

 Though not envisaged as an investors’ meet, the two-day event to be held in the state capital from Friday, will have a major focus on NRK investment under these special schemes. Their participation in nine other key sectors, which are vital for the comprehensive development of the state, will also be sought.
 
 According to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the LKS will be taking up two missions – tapping the huge potential of immigration for the good of the state and meeting the state’s responsibilities towards non-resident Keralites.
 
 
  
  
 
 “The Sabha’s secretariat and the state government are committed to follow-up on the recommendations to be made by the Sabha and to ensure their implementation,” the CM had stated. The progress of the activities to be taken up after Sabha’s first meeting will be assessed at the next meeting to be convened within two years.
 
 Elaborating on the topics for discussion, Speaker   told reporters that the deliberations will cover finance, industries and information technology, agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries, tourism and cooperation, culture and language, education and health. The LKS will also discuss issues of NRKs, returnees and women expatriates.
 
 Though the government has sanctioned Rs 5 crore for the conduct of the LKS meeting to be held at the renovated members’ lounge in the assembly complex, the Speaker said the actual cost would be less as many of the delegates have volunteered to spend from their own pockets to attend the meet.
 
 However, the selection of NRK representatives (174 out of the total 351 members) has been an extremely difficult task as there are between 2,000 to 3,000 pravasi Malayali organisations across the globe, Sreeramakrishnan said.
 
 The LKS proceedings will begin with the inaugural address by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday morning followed by the address by opposition leader  , the deputy leader of LKS. Rajya Sabha deputy chairman P J Kurien, Union minister for tourism  , former chief ministers   and  , former Union minister Vayalar Ravi, members representing various regions, noted NRI businesspersons and eminent personalities from various walks of life will attend the event.
 
 On the second day, 10 issuebased conferences covering all the key sectors will be held.
 
 
