MUMBAI: The bandh on Wednesday brought into focous an earlier case of 1997 in a Dalit colony in Ghatkopar. A sub-inspector of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) who had fired at rioters two decades ago, killing 10, was sentenced to life imprisonment by a trial court in 2009 and his appeal against conviction is still pending. The officer, Manohar Kadam, had fired during a riot which took place after a statue of Dr   was desecrated at Ramabai Colony,   on July 11, 1997.

 On May 9, 2009, a fast-track sessions court in   convicted Kadam of culpable homicide not amounting murder under the Indian Penal Code, an offence where an act done with “intention’’ results in death of people. The trial court had rejected his plea of ‘right of private defence’.
 
 On May 22 that year, Bombay high court suspended his sentence and granted Kadam bail after his counsel,  , pointed to how a sanction to prosecute him under SRPF Act did not consider previously unargued, but crucial provisions of section 11 of the Act. The section empowers such an officer on “reasonable apprehension’’ of harm to officers or property under his protection to “use such force as may be necessary even though the use of such force may involve risk of death of the wrong-doer, assailant or any other person assisting such wrong-doer.
 
 The HC vacation bench of Justices AV Nirgude and RG Ketkar had observed that section 11 on plain reading protects an SRPF officer for using force. “The protection afforded is in addition to protection of ‘right of self defence’,” and forms a “strong arguable point” for Kadam, the HC had said. The HC said the offence was grave but the situation was “quite grave and tense too.’’ The HC said the accusations against Kadam require to be examined too.
 
 No date has been set for the final hearing of the appeal yet. Advocate   was later appointed special public prosecutor for the appeal. Advocate SD Rupwate, appearing for interveners, had opposed Kadam’s bail.
 
 The case against Kadam was filed belatedly, in 2001. He was arrested in December 2002 and granted bail in 2003.
 
