BARNALA: Author and veteran journalist P Sainath stressed the need to declare agriculture a public service with a   during a lecture held at Tarksheel Bhawan. He also urged   to do away with corporate control on agriculture. 

 Sainath demanded a 20-day special session of Parliament for lawmakers to debate various issues pertaining to agriculture and cautioned people against water scarcity. He said even though the water crisis has hit India as a whole, it is more acute in Punjab, where farmers depend on water-guzzling paddy.
 
 Sainath, who has studied agriculture upheavals extensively in the last more than two decades, reached Punjab on a 15-day visit to study the agrarian crisis. He said a war-like situation is developing on the agrarian front with successive governments working for profitability of multinational companies (MNCs) rather than farmer welfare. The   would soon turn into a social crisis, he warned. 
 
 “Successive governments might be political adversaries but have adopted a similar approach in pursuing   and benefitting corporates at the cost of farmers. It is time that farmers from across the country follow the path shown by 50,000 farmers of Maharashtra who took out a 180-kilometre march from Nashik to Mumbai. Now, farmers need to join hands and encircle Parliament, making lawmakers frame policies that benefit farmers,” he said. 
 
 He said farmers should demand a 20-day special session of Parliament to discuss farm issues and for three days, the discussion should be on the national draft farm policy and credit structure. 
 
 “For three days, the discussion should be about the water situation in India and ways to overcome it and on the type of agriculture needed. Another three days should be devoted to suicide victims and agrarian crisis. Farmers need to check which political parties try to disrupt proceedings,” said Sainath.
 
 He also stressed the need for a debate on the   report, which has been overdue for years. The government, he said, needs to count all the aspects, including family labour and rent of land while calculating input costs. 
 
