NAGPUR: The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has issued advisory to all the states regulating movement of   inside the forests.

 Surprisingly, despite existing laws in place against trespassing in forests, MoEFCC directions on April 20 come only after an application filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT), principal bench, Delhi, against death of 10 trekkers charred in forest fire in   reserve in Theni district of   on March 11.
 
 The environment ministry has said that the loss of lives is unfortunate and states should prevent such incidents and take appropriate steps and curative measures. The ministry is formulating a National Action Plan on forest fire soon, it informed.
 
 The MoEFCC has also asked forest departments to put a system in place to regulate movement of people in forest and activities like trekking, especially during the fire season of February to May. In Maharashtra, several wildlife parks have been opened for trekking without any safety measures.
 
 The MoEFCC advisory seems to be a mere formality as there is no accountability for massive forest fires. In Maharashtra alone, last year 31,875 hectares of forest was gutted through 5,844 fire incidents, causing a loss of Rs42 lakh. 
 
 “The state has failed to learn lessons from the past as more than 20,000 hectares of forest has been destroyed in the last two months (March-April) in Gondia, Bhandara, Nagpur, Wardha, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Amravati and other districts,” says Sawan Bahekar of Sustaining Environment & Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA), Gondia. 
 
 The state forest department doesn’t even have data on forest fires for the last two months. This is despite the fact that Maharashtra forest department has gone hi-tech. APCCF (protection) RS Yadav said, “We have data on forest fires till February only.” 
 
 “There is no action against staff. Most of these fires were ignited at the behest of tendu patta traders. In Gondia territorial forest at least 6,000 hectares,   3,000 hectares, Tipeshwar 2,000 hectares of forest was destroyed,” Bahekar said.
 
 “In Maharashtra, lack of action against people venturing deep into the forest has led to increasing man-animal conflict and ultimately flagship species like tigers and leopards have to pay the price. In Pandharkawda, where shoot orders for tigress were issued, at least 10 people have died in conflict. Most of these deaths are in reserve forest,” says former forest official GP Thakur.
 
 
