KOLKATA: This Durga Puja, motorists will finally be able to drive down from EM Bypass to   in less than 10 minutes as the west-bound ramp of the Maa flyover gets linked to the   flyover. This will not only halve the commute time for Dalhousie-, Alipore- and Howrah-bound traffic from the city’s eastern fringes, it will also benefit commuters heading in the opposite direction to Salt Lake, Lake Town, Baguiati and the airport in the north-east and Ruby and Patuli in the south-east as motorists will be able to access the Maa flyover from   that is currently shut to traffic between 9am and 10pm. 

 At present, EM Bypass-bound traffic on the AJC Bose Road flyover are not required to exit ahead of the Park Circus seven-point crossing but can take a ramp that links it to the Maa flyover. 
 
  
  
 However, traffic in the opposite direction is required to exit ahead of the Park Circus seven-point crossing and then take   to head for the AJC Bose Road flyover. Officials at   construction agency said efforts were on to complete the final phase of the elevated corridor project by September, ahead of Durga Puja. The deadline though depends on the timely shutdown of a section of Circus Avenue’s southern flank to traffic so that piers on this narrow stretch of road can be erected without hindrance. Monsoon is another potential problem as rain disrupts construction work. 
 
 At present, work is underway on the section of ramp on Congress Exhibition Road and   that are much wider than the Circus Avenue flank. Hence, traffic can flow alongside construction activity. “Though there is adequate space for work to carry on alongside traffic flow on Congress Exhibition Road and Nassiruddin Road, heavy construction activity is carried out only between 11pm and 6am to prevent any untoward incident. But on Circus Avenue, that is not possible as the road is extremely narrow. 
 
 Once heavy duty construction machinery like cranes are stationed there, traffic cannot flow. We have sought the shutdown of   from early May. If the police delays that, the project will get prolonged,” the official said. The arm connection was set to be completed by May 2018 but delay in barricading of Circus Avenue to allow piling work and Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority taking time to clear the ramp design resulted in the delay. While the civic authority has become extra cautious about design and material quality since the collapse of the Vivekananda flyover two years ago, delay in police permission for barricading the road for construction work has dogged the project since it began in 2010. The 1km ramp that links with the Maa flyover near   police station and the AJC Bose Road flyover at the other end at   has 35 piers.
 
 Of these, 17 prefabricated piers on Congress Exhibition Road and Nasiruddin Road have already been erected and the decks have also been placed except across Syed Amir Ali Avenue. Another 18 piers now need to be erected on Circus Avenue. “We have completed the foundation work. Half the piers that comprise the sub-structure work is complete. Work on the deck or carriageway, has also made similar progress. 
 
 The first of 35 slabs have also been cast. The three critical segments that remain are laying the deck over Syed Amir Ali Avenue, the curvature linking Nasuruddin Road and the merger with AJC Bose Road flyover at Beckbagan,” he pointed out.
