QUEPEM: Residents of Quepem and   are outraged over a dug up road that has been causing dust pollution, besides posing a danger to motorists. 

 The 5-km stretch from Quepem town till Ambaulim was dug up by JICA a month ago to lay a water pipeline. However, with the monsoon barely a few weeks away, this road is yet to be repaired despite several protests, that even included planting of trees in the dug up portion.
 
 The residents have planned to block the Quepem–Cuncolim road if JICA or PWD don’t undertake repair work immediately.
 
 John  , an activist, has complained to the executive magistrate, Quepem against JICA and PWD officials for causing dust pollution, and endangering public life owing to this work. The copy of the complaint is also sent to Quepem police, deputy collector, and PWD.
 
 “The dug up road is not yet tarred, and clouds of dust rise up when vehicles pass over the stretch, kicking up dust. This in turn leads to a health hazard, and possibility of accidents, thereby endangering life and property,” said Fernandes, adding that if the dug up road is not tarred before monsoon, there is possibility of vehicle accidents. His numerous requests to the authorities to undertake spraying of water so that the dust pollution is contained, has falled on deaf ears.
 
 Quepem mamlatdar   told STOI that as per the order from the   collector, all the road-digging work has to be stopped, and the roads tarred before May 15. This order has been imposed keeping in mind that the monsoon is expected to arrive any time post May 15. PWD assistant engineer has already sent a letter to JICA to repair the road before May 15.
 
 Earlier in April, Igramoll residents had halted road-digging work as JICA had damaged the newly hotmixed Quepem-Cuncolim road, and summoned JICA engineers at the site. Later, JICA officials had assured the locals that a tender has already been issued to tar the road. However, when contacted,  , executive engineer of JICA said that tender is not yet issued to tar the damaged road. PWD officials on condition of anonymity stated that they were helpless to take action against JICA for damaging the road as they have received direct instructions from the chief minister not to disrupt JICA-related work.
 
 
