PALWAL: Relatives, neighbours and co-workers all painted a picture of 49-year-old   as a dysfunctional man, easily angered and given to  . He had estranged relations with his wife and son and lived alone after a history of domestic assaults. In fact, family members claimed that Dhankar had lost his job in the army due to such misconduct.

 Late on Tuesday night, the man who went amok and killed six people in Palwal before being overpowered underwent surgery at Safdarjung Hospital for a ruptured blood vessel in the brain and remained in critical state. 
  
 Dhankar, his relatives claimed, was a lieutenant in the   when he took voluntary retirement on medical grounds in 2003. Three years later, Dhankar joined   government’s agriculture department as an assistant divisional officer and was currently posted at Bhiwani. He got married to Seema in 2007. But soon after a son was born, the couple separated with Seema unable to bear the frequent beatings she suffered at her husband’s hands.
 
 The former army man bought a three-bedroom flat in Omaxe City in Palwal, but stayed alone because Seema continued living with her parents in Adarsh Colony. “Seema went to the flat only when Dhankar was away in Bhiwani,” disclosed a relative. 
 
 According to Palwal Police, Dhankar had assaulted Manoj Kumar, an on-duty policeman, on June 15, 2015. “He was booked under Sections 323 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code for causing hurt and obstructing a public servant from doing his duty,” revealed Sulochna Gajraj, Palwal City superintendent of police. “He was out on bail and his case was next scheduled to be heard on January 18.”
 
 Colleagues in the agriculture department narrated a history of strained relations. Staff members once reported Dhankar, who accountant Krishan Kumar said worked as a subject specialist, to the local police station for misbehaviour. Others had complained to headquarters about his bad temperament and requested his transfer.
 
 Neighbours at Omaxe City said that Dhankar frequently got into arguments with them over petty issues. “We had lately begun to avoid him,” said Vijay Singh, who teaches in a   university.
 
 Apparently, Dhankar was issued a show-cause notice on Monday after his office informed headquarters in Chandigarh that he had absented himself from work since December 29 without notice. Security guards at Omaxe City recalled that on Tuesday around 1am, Dhankar had left the colony murmuring to himself. “He did not carry an iron rod then,” remembered Mukesh Kumar, one of the guards. 
 
 One of Seema’s relative alleged that earlier on Monday morning, he had discovered Dhankar sitting outside his flat and had grumbled that his wife had locked him out of the house. “But as soon as I got the door opened for him, Naresh tried to attack me with an iron rod. I saved myself by slamming the door on him,” the relative claimed.
 
 
