Every day around 2am after ensuring that the last man awake in   too goes to sleep, dozens of bullock carts and donkeys march towards the Noyyal river bed.

 For the next two hours the river bed would buzz with action as dozens of men would start scooping sand and piling them up in sacks on donkeys. These sacks are later transferred to mini-trucks and trucks stationed outside the village and later transported to construction sites in and around Coimbatore district. Many of these trucks also travel to the neighboring districts.
 
 When the village wakes up all that would be left for them to see is the   and a  .
 
 As demand for sand in the state increases and after court ban on mining of sand from  , sand traders in the district have turned towards smaller rivers such as Noyyal. The public works department, mines department and the revenue department officials when contacted told TOI that they had not given any permission for sand mining in Noyyal. “What is happening is illegal,’’ said a revenue officer.
 
 “This has been happening here for more than two decades now. Earlier, sand was smuggled even during the day,” said Radha, an elderly woman in Alandurai. She added that the entire 12km stretch from Alandurai to Semmedu has been a hotspot. There is a spurt in quantum of smuggling, say activists.
 
 The donkeys and carts are owned by a few locals in the area who have formed a nexus with the sand truck owners. The locals are paid for smuggling the sand and the elderly turn informers to alert smugglers about movement of officials. State general secretary of farmers’ association P   said the farmers in the area have raised this issue in several grievances meetings and had also given petitions to the district collector. “The collector only needs to take action,” he said.
 
 A few months ago, a farmer even assaulted one of the sand smugglers who was a repeated offender that created a stir in the village.
 
 Revenue inspector in Alandurai Rajendiran said, “We are aware of this and have taken various measures to curb it. We have dug trenches along river bank to stop bullock carts. We have also set up check posts and gates in three locations to stop the entry. But these gates were damaged and the locks were broken the very next day.” The officials also go on night patrolling on their two-wheelers.
 
 When caught, the villagers would claim that the sand was not for sale but for their houses being built under government scheme. “But once we seize their bullock carts, local politicians and sand truck owners come to pay the penalty,” said an official. Another official from the area said that they were extremely short-staffed. “Most of these smugglers are drunk and they are nearly 20 of them on the river bed. We cannot go alone and stop this. We need a team including police inspectors and at least a four-wheeler.” 
 
 R Manikandan of Kovai Kulangal Paadhugaaapu Amaippu said that they have seen this happening near Kuniyamuthur also. “We are trying to create awareness among youngsters and create a team to stop this. Since locals are involved there is very little we can do,” he said.
 
 District collector T N Hariharan could not be reached for a comment.
 
 
