Cleared

 Chennai: The Tamil Nadu assembly convenes on Monday with state governor Banwarilal Purohit delivering the customary address to the house. While the rest of the near week-long session will be dedicated to a discussion on vote of thanks for the governor, the session itself is likely to be very stormy given the political and other developments in the state in recent times.
 
 The on-going transport workers’ strike, which entered the fourth day on Sunday, is yet to be resolved with the state government throwing up its hands and a Madras high court order asking striking workers to return to work having little effect on the workforce. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and leader of opposition in the state assembly & DMK working president M K Stalin are already engaged in a statement war over the government’s efforts in resolving the transport workers’ problems.
 
 With the ruling party perceived to be in a minority in the house, pending the disposal of a petition questioning the disqualification of 18 rebel AIADMK MLAs by the speaker in the HC, the minority status could hang as a Damocles sword over the government. “If a possibility arises, we will bring in a no-confidence motion,” said Stalin on Sunday evening, at the end of the meeting of DMK MLAs ahead of the Monday’s assembly session.
 
 For his part, Purohit has already caused a upheaval with his penchant to hold review meetings with the district administration in whichever districts he has toured. A DMK party district secretaries’ meet on Sunday passed a resolution wanting such review meetings by the governor to be stopped immediately.
 
 The entry of rebel AIADMK leader and independent MLA from R K Nagar, T T V Dhinakaran for the first time into the Tamil Nadu assembly is likely to grab attention and focus. The ruling party had last week cautioned its MLAs not to get provoked on whatever TTV would say in the assembly. 
 
 While TTV’s presence and utterances could cuase ripples within and outside the legislative assembly, the preparedness or lack of it of the state government during the Ockhi cyclone and the calamity it left behind, mainly in Kanyakumari, could be another major topic to rock the house. 
 
 “The Governor will only reiterate what the government wants him to say. But, what happens tomorrow, we will have to wait and see,” DMK principal secretary and deputy leader of opposition in the state assembly Duraimurugan told TOI.
 
 “We have been asking for the Ockhi cyclone calamity to be declared as a national disaster, given the loss of lives of several fishermen from Kanyakumari district and impact on livelihood. But, neither the Centre nor state government has taken any serious and meaningful step so far,” said Congress MLA from Vilavancode S Vijayadharani.
 
 Ends/dg
 
 
