CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu will not be able to make use of the nearly Rs 50 crore guaranteed under a mission fund announced in the   budget on Thursday to raise bamboo that would have allowed hundreds of forest-dwellers and tribals in the state to raise bamboo as a means of livelihood, says former principal chief conservator of   C K Sreedharan. The reason, he said, is because bamboo is still classified a tree in the state. 

 In November 2017, Sreedharan said, the  , forests and   promulgated an ordinance, excluding bamboo from the definition of trees under Section 2 clause (7) of the Indian Forest Act 1927. All states that are governed by the central act can now make use of the fund. But the state, which is still governed by the Tamil Nadu Forest Act 1882 is in force, can only do so if it amends this legislation to reclassify bamboo as grass, he said.
 
 A dozen years ago, Tamil Nadu promulgated the Scheduled Tribes and Other   (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act 2006, a key legislation vesting with forest-dwelling tribes and other traditional forest dwellers the right of ownership, access to collect, use and dispose of minor forest produce, traditionally collected within or outside village boundaries.
 
 Minor forest produce includes all non-timber produce of plant origin, including bamboo, brushwood, stumps, cane, tussar, cocoons, honey, wax, lack, tendu or kendu leaves, medicinal plants, herbs, roots and tubers, but its administrative definition in the Tamil Nadu forest department excludes bamboo. This needs to be revisited in tune with the 2006 act, said Sridharan.
 
 Even the Hill Areas (Preservation of Trees) Act 1955, where section 2, clause (g) classifies bamboo a tree and says it can be cut only if it grows to a certain height and girth, is detrimental to raising it in the state, he said. There is a serious error in framing of the Act, he said, adding that it should be amemnded .
 
 To allow the raising of bamboo in the state, all three pieces of legislation need to be amended by excluding bamboo from the category of trees, he said. 
 
 
