BHOPAL: The   government has come up with an ambitious ‘doorstep’ healthcare scheme for cows at a time when hospital horror stories crop up with alarming regularity. 

 Coming after cows in MP started getting Aadhar cards — the first in the country — it’s clear the state government is wooing the moo factor ahead of polls. The deadline it has set to get the cattle healthcare scheme rolling statewide is August 15 — a month or so before the model code of conduct comes into force for the assembly election.
 
 “It would be a first-of-its-kind facility in the country where 4 crore livestock get treatment, free of cost, at their doorstep in a timebound manner,” said director of animal husbandry,  .
 
 The department has set up a cattle call centre, where people from rural areas can a vet on call, and has also developed a mobile app. The pilot project began in two blocks each of Raisen and Dewas districts on February 5, and will be extended to Seoni, Harda, Khargone, Satna, Narsinghpur, Shajapur, Dhar, Alirajpur, Raisen and Dewas in a fortnight. 
 
 Priyakant  , additional deputy director of animal husbandry directorate, said cattle health services would run round the clock. Once a call is logged on the helpline, medical assistance would reach between five hours, 8 hours, 12 hours or 72 hours, depending on the severity of the disease. The most critical ones — named Super L1 — will be attended to within 5 hours.
 
 The call centre will alert a veterinarian, assistant vet, field officer or para-vet, who must attend to the animal within the time frame and file an online report, said Pathak. MP has the highest cattle population in the country, some 2.77 lakh cattle. 
 
 Nodal officers of the districts where the facility is going to be launched in a fortnight attended a training programme in   on Tuesday, where they were taught about software, app, call centre and other nitty gritty. The state government’s yearly expenditure of around Rs 40 crore for treatment of animals will be hiked to meet the costs of the 24x7 healthcare facility, officials said.
 
 During the pilot project itself, lives of 1,435 cattle have been saved in Raisen and Dewas, said officials, adding that 8,767 cattle belonging to 6,927 farmers have been treated. At present, the authorities are getting 200 calls per day, which is expected to increase to 12,000 calls once the facility goes statewide on August 15.
 
 
