Surat: The power loom weavers in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub has urged the state government to launch a textile promotion scheme on the lines of Maharashtra government in Gujarat and provide an impetus package, slash electricity tariff and modernization in the weaving units to increase the quality of fabric production. Weavers have written letters to the chief minister, deputy chief minister, MPs and MLAs in Gujarat for considering the textile scheme for development of textile sector in the state on the lines of Maharashtra.  As per the scheme launched by Maharashtra government, the textile units have been given an impetus package to the tune of Rs 4,600 crore and the reduction of electricity tariff by Rs 2 per unit. This, the power loom weavers believe will encourage even the entrepreneurs from Surat to set up units in Maharashtra as the fabric manufactured there will be 40 per cent cheaper than Surat.  Power loom weavers stated that Maharashtra government is providing 25 per cent capital subsidy and there is no cap on investment made in the textile sector. This will encourage the textile entrepreneurs in setting up power loom weaving units in the textile pockets in Maharashtra, thereby giving a stiff competition to the MMF industry in Surat.  President of Pandesara Weavers Cooperative Society Ashish Gujarati said, “The units in Maharashtra are already receiving electricity at the tariff lower than what we are paying in Surat. Still, the Maharashtra government has slashed the electricity tariff by Rs 2 per unit. This will make the end production cost of the units in Maharashtra 40 per cent less compared to Surat.” Gujarati added, “We have urged the state government to come up with similar scheme to encourage the MMF sector in Surat and Gujarat. If the scheme is not launched in a time bound manner, then the textile entrepreneurs may shift to Navapur and Tarapur, which are just 90 kilometre away from Surat.” Power loom industry leader from Sachin Mayur Golwala said, “The Goods and Service Tax and demonetisation has literally broken the back of the power loom sector. Many power loom weavers have shut down their units and more than 1 lakh conventional power loom machines have been sold in scrap in the last few months. We demand that the state government must come up with the scheme to rescue the dying industry.”