MUMBAI: Three contract labourers died and two others are fighting for their lives after they fell 9 metres down a manhole in Powai on Monday. The incident occurred when the crane pulley that was used to winch the labourers from the manhole snapped. Local residents present at the spot called the police control room and a Powai police team and the fire brigade reached the spot at around 6.15pm.

 The dead were identified as Rameshwar Heramsingh (45), Satyanarayan Singh (40) and   (32).
 
 Co-workers present at the spot rushed the five labourers to Rajawadi hospital in Ghatkopar (East) where the three were declared dead. 
 
 The incident took place between 5.30pm and 6pm when the labouerers were working inside the newly laid sewage line that passes 10 metres below the road on Adi   near the IIT-Powai gates, said police.
 
 A manhole had been dug to enable cleaning of the sewage line. “The workers had entered the manhole which is about a metre wide and 10 metres deep. The mishap occurred when the rope used to pull the workers snapped,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy.
 
 Powai police senior inspector   said the supervisors and contractors who were present at the spot ran away after the incident. Police and fire brigade teams reached the spot within a few minutes of receiving the accident alert and pulled out the five labourers who had fallen 9 metres in the sewage line. “Prima facie the workers fell down and suffered severe injuries. Three died in hospital and two others are critical,” said Pophale.
 
 The work of the new sewage line was going on for the last one month and the labourers were digging the manhole with the help of a crane. Police have registered a case of accidental death. At the time of going to press late on Monday, the Powai police were in the process of registering an FIR against the supervisor or contractor for not following adequate safety measures that led to the mishap.
 
 Police are in the process of verifying the background of the three who died and those who were injured. They have also sought details from the civic authority about the supervisor/contractor who was assigned the work. All the five labourers hailed from West Bengal.
 
 Past Cases:
 
 May 12, 2017 | In a bid to look for a cell phone that accidentally fell into a manhole, a BMC cleaner was suffocated to death. While he was declared dead on arrival at a hospital, another labourer, who entered the dirty hole to rescue him, died while undergoing treatment. The labourers identified as Ajay Kunchikorve (23), resident of Kurla Halavpul and Sachin Pawar (21), resident of Tunga village in Powai, were working as BMC cleaners on a contractual basis. Apart from this, they did other work as well.
 
 Feb 15, 2017 | Three labourers died in a manhole in Malad (west) after they stepped in to clean it. They fell unconscious soon after they went in and were declared dead when taken to the hospital. Malwani police said the four labourers were allegedly hired on a private contract for that job. Three of them, identified as  , 30, Maya Harijan, 25 and Kashi Harijan 45, descended into the manhole to clean it when the mishap took place. The three fell unconscious inside the manhole.
 
 Mar 21, 2016 | Two contractual municipal workers died while clearing a sewage pipeline in   east. Another labour who sustained injuries in the incident has been admitted to hospital. The incident took place around 3 pm near Cambridge School at Thakur Complex. The workers — Mehboob Kumari (40) and Kari Narsimha (30) — were trying to clear a water-logged sewage pipe when they fell into a manhole. The fire brigade was summoned and the workers were pulled out after some time, said the   police.
 
