Mysuru: As the   draw near, it appears as the   in Mysuru, including those in Chamundeshwari and Varuna segments — respectively the constituencies currently represented by chief minister Siddaramaiah, and the one he is expected to contest from — are set to get new roads. 

  is crying foul over developmental work at the SC/ST colonies, alleging that the projects worksare being taken up in view of the elections. While the BJP members dubbed the initiative an election gimmick, Congress argued that all developmental works by government are being viewed in a negative light, further adding that the people were well-informed and would not be persuaded to vote for a party in the wake of welfare work being taken up ahead of elections. 
 
 Government is developing SC and ST colonies in six assembly segments - Varuna represented by Siddarmaiah, Chamundeshwari wherein CM is expected to contest upcoming assembly election, T Narasipura represented by district minister HC Mahadevappa, and the rest - HD Kote, Hunsur and Periypatna.
 
 A total of Rs 6.91 crore is being spent to improve internal roads in Dalit colonies. Among them 10 are SC colonies including three in  , and two each in Varuna, Chamundeshwari and HD Kote, a ST reserved segment, and 6 are ST colonies that are getting cement concrete roads. 
 
 An official admitted though this is best way to spend money allocated for the welfare of SC/ST the selection of colonies have been done keeping elections in mind. 
 
 Chikkaranga Nayaka of BJP district ST wing claimed there are 236 ST Colonies in Mysuru district but only 50 % of the colonies are having facilities like roads but the rest lack basic infrastructures. Showing concern for STs during the election time is nothing but an election gimmick, he claimed questioning why development wasnt done earlier. 
 
 Countering the claims, BJ Vijaykumar, president of district congress, said any developmental projects taken up either in the beginning or in the end of governments term it is done for the welfare of the people. Today voters are intelligent and have an increasing awareness of how works happen. If people would have voted only on such developmental works there would have been no opportunity for other political parties to contest elections. People making such allegations do not have faith on the principles of democracy, he stated.
 
 
