NOIDA: The father of the 17-year-old juvenile home inmate who died of tuberculosis last week has said his son could have been saved had authorities at the home given him proper medical attention. 

 The father said that when he had visited the home the last time, his son was so weak that he needed help even to stand up and walk. The allegation assumes all the more significance as it has been learnt that the juvenile home had been functioning with only one doctor against three sanctioned slots. 
 
 The youth's father, a salesman at a garment store in  , said his son was arrested in 2016 in connection with the alleged murder of a friend. "My son's friend was found dead with bullet wounds. We believe he had committed suicide. But his family members alleged that my son had shot him dead over personal enmity. Police picked him up and put him in an observation home in Muzaffarnagar. He was then shifted him to the Noida juvenile home in November 2016," he said.
 
 The juvenile home inmate hadn't been keeping well for the past two months but officials continued to keep him in the home instead of taking him to a hospital, he alleged. 
 
 "He would cough repeatedly and complain of chest pain. I had visited the Noida home and requested the then juvenile home superintendent to provide his medical prescriptions. I wanted to get him out on bail but the officials did not heed to my repeated appeals. They refused medical treatment to him outside the campus," the father said.
 
 "I will file a police complaint against the juvenile home management. Their negligence led to the death of my son," he added. The district health department has ordered a probe into the death.
 
 Health and hygiene had been a cause for concern at the juvenile home earlier too as an inspection by the district legal services authority ( ) had on October 7 last year revealed that most of the inmates were suffering from skin diseases and rashes. A TOI article in December last year had also shown how bullies often arm-twisted and assaulted inmates to extort money from them and how cigarettes and gutkhas made their way into the building.
 
 Dharmendra Maurya, the in-charge of the Noida juvenile home, said the 17-year-old had been admitted to district hospital on May 16. When his condition did not improve, he was referred to  , where he died on Monday.
 
 Aneet  , a member of the  , said inmates had complained to him of poor health services on several inspections earlier. "There is a need to take necessary measures to ensure safety of juvenile inmates at the home," he said.
 
 
