NEW DELHI: Protocol reserved till now for the funerals of martyred Army personnel and national figures was extended to a peacock in the capital. 

 On Friday, the   wrapped the dead bird in tricolour before burying it in a wooden box. The cops had rescued the peacock from a road outside the high court, but the bird later succumbed to its injuries. 
 
 Police said they were simply following “protocol” as it was India’s national bird. “We gave it full honour and buried it with a tricolour as it is our national bird. 
 
 This is the protocol and we will follow it in the future if another such peacock comes in our custody,” said an officer at the Tilak Marg police station.
 
 Wildlife activists said the funeral may have violated the Wildlife Act since peacock was a schedule-I bird.
 
 The police station had on Friday received a call an injured peacock was lying outside gate number five of Delhi high court. The bird was taken to the   in Chandni Chowk, where it was declared brought dead. Police said they then took the bird to a hospital in Jaunapur, south Delhi, for postmortem and conducted a burial in Jaunapur itself in the presence of a forest official. 
 
 “We are yet to know the cause of the death as the postmortem report will come next week, but it is suspected that the bird may have got injured after falling from a tree,” the officer said. 
 
 Sunil Jain, manager at the Jain Bird hospital, said they receive an average of 10 peacock cases each month. Some suffer a heatstroke while others get injured due to dog bites or by traffic. 
 
 Experts TOI spoke to however said no such protocol existed and the activity may have been in violation of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, which states that schedule I animals found dead were state property and a burial or cremation could only be carried out by the state forest department after a postmortem. 
 
 Animal activist Gauri Maulekhi said she had written a letter to the forest department last month after a dead peacock was reported at the Janakpuri police station on April 16. 
 
 “This is in violation of the Wildlife Protection Act as no NGO or police even can get a postmortem conducted or bury the animal. It needs to be handed over to forest department who are required to either cremate or bury the animal themselves to ensure no parts are smuggled. The correct protocol is not being followed in the case of peacock deaths and I have written to the forest department asking them to inform each police station on the procedure or to either empower them under section 55(b) of the act,” said Maulekhi.
 
 
