CHANDIGARH: It has taken Punjab five years to implement a 2012 judgment of the Punjab and   high court striking down certain clauses of the Punjab   scheme which created a monopoly in favour of the private bus operators. 

 On December 20, 2012, a division bench of the high court had struck down provisos (conditions) to clause 3 and 10 of the transport scheme modified by the transport department on December 20, 2011. 
 
 However, it was only on February 16 that the state transport commissioner issued directions to the regional transport authorities at  , Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Sangrur, Hoshaiarpur, Faridkot and   to ensure implementation of the December 2012 judgment.
 
 Asked about the delay, state transport commissioner   told TOI, "There are various reasons for its delay. But now we have started the action, soon the high court judgment will be implemented." He added, after issuing notices to bus operators, they need to be given an opportunity of hearing before taking the final decision.
 
 The transport commissioner has now directed that since a condition to clause 10 of the state transport scheme had been struck down by the high court, "all the illegal extensions, diversions, curtailments, increase in trips/decrease in trips by the regional transport authorities in the state beyond the permissible limit of 24 km both prior and after 20.12.2011 deserve to be withdrawn/cancelled."
 
 It has also been directed since the second condition to clause 3 of the transport scheme had been struck down by the high court, "therefore, all such extensions allowed by the RTAs in the state deserve to be withdrawn/cancelled."
 
 Through this condition, private bus operators of Heat Ventilation and Air Conditioned Buses (HVAC), air conditioned integral coaches or super integral coaches were allowed to operate on the neighbouring inter-state routes maximum up to a distance of 15 km. 
 
 While striking down this condition, the high court had observed that it, "discreetly creates monopoly in favour of the private operators having the vehicle of a specific 'make' which the others (including state transport undertaking) might not have."
 
 
