GURGAON: A 22-year-old woman dragged out of a car and raped near Tigra village, on January 23.A college student abducted and raped by two men in Farrukhnagar on January 19. A 23-year-old woman raped by her neighbour in DLF 2 on November 18.

 In the last month and a half, Haryana witnessed over 10 rape cases, with several of them being reported from Gurgaon. Numerous such cases getting reported in the past hasn’t made much of a difference in the state’s law-and-order situation, especially with regard to women’s safety. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Now, a group of women in the city has taken it upon themselves to bring about change. Around 30 women came together to build a community —  . They plan to bring this city’s women and men together to curb crimes against women. 
 
 “Every time a sensational incident of rape hits the headlines, we talk about making a change. But eventually, all the positive energy generated dies down. There has to be a way to realise our goal of a safer city for women. We plan to do that one step at a time, through little things such as well-lit streets and more awareness,” said Priya Menon, one of those behind the initiative.
 
 She added their aim is to express the anger that Gurgaon’s women are feeling, and give it a constructive direction. Their   page, Make Gurgaon Safer for Women, has around 1,200 members, with another around 200 connections on Twitter.
 
 As one of their first steps, these women plan to raise awareness among other women in the city, about their legal rights and procedures they need to follow in case they become victims of crime. Next, they plant to focus on making government and police officials, as well as political leaders, accessible to survivors. 
 
 Further, they plan to meet experts and retired police officials to create a comprehensive plan, for which they have already met a retired Haryana Police officer and have also approached vice-chairperson of Haryana  ,  . “We’ve made some simple suggestions such as better street lighting and more patrolling, which in the long run can make a lot of difference in making our streets safer for women,” said Shilpi Singh. Among other things, they also plan to hold awareness session for maids and working class women to enable them lead a safer life. 
 
 Later, Bhardwaj told TOI, “I’m glad these working women have come out to help in making the city a safer place. Their concerns are valid and they have some valid, executable ideas. We need to come up with an action plan for all 22 districts in the state, as problems of every area is unique.”
 
 The women are also using social media platforms to spread awareness about relevant procedures, laws and point of contacts. Going forward, they wish to approach the police commissioner and discuss ideas such as community policing. “There is only so much the government can do. We know Gurgaon police faces staff crunch. As concerned citizens, we must help to make this city safer,” said  , an architect.
 
 
