NAVI MUMBAI: A   surfaced in a   residential society compound recently giving rise to concern over safety of children playing in the area as well as the fast disappearing snake habitats in the locality. “It is not uncommon for   to surface particularly during their breeding time as reptiles look for safe zones to lay eggs,” said Ulhas Thakur of Indian Herpetological Society.

 Thakur, a resident of Nerul, said he gets calls during the monsoon. But of late, his phone started ringing in summer as well with people calling to report snakes in their areas. “Recently, we have saved a python in Nerul,” he said.
 
 The residents of Anandvan Society of Nerul’s sector 4 freaked out when they found a snake crawling into their compound. They immediately called in the snake catchers. “The society has the details of ‘Friends of Snakes’ (Sarp Mitra) as we come across serpents quite often,” said a resident Sidharth Kadri.
 
 Wondering why snakes are being seen more in residential areas, Thakur explained, “They come out because we have destroyed their habitat. Earlier, snakes used to be in the forests on Parsik Hills. These have been destroyed by mindless quarrying.”
 
 Nandakumar Pawar, director of environment NGO Shri Ekavira Aai Pratishtan (SEAP) pointed out that another natural habitat of snakes and rats, the mangroves, are being systematically destroyed around Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Rampant dumping of debris along the coastline which will soon kill all the mangroves and relegate it to history books, he said.
 
 The frequent sighting of snakes in city areas has also brought into sharp focus the recent social communication campaign #BoomCityDoomCity undertaken by the communication professionals body   (PRCI) to save hills and mangroves in MMR. 
 
 “The campaign is to remind the people that we should not play with the nature. The affects will be disastrous,” said PRCI governing council chairman B N Kumar. World Environment Day will be observed on June 5 and PRCI plans to campaign about maintaining ecological balance.
 
 
