JAIPUR: Swasthya Dal Aapke Dwar, a campaign launched in the city, will be replicated in entire state for preventing the spread of  , dengue and other vector borne and  . 

 The   in Jaipur had surveyed more than 1.5 lakh houses to prevent spread of the diseases in last three days of February. A guideline has been issued to all the districts. 
 
 The health department has issued directions to all epidemiology and entomology experts under the health department for a meeting scheduled for Monday. In the meeting, the health department officials will discuss about destroying breeding grounds of mosquitoes and also to prevent spread of swine flu. 
 
 According to health department, more than 650 cases of dengue and more than 100 cases each of chikungunya and malaria have already been reported in the state. These are the diseases, which usually spread after rainy season. But, as the cases of vector borne diseases have been reported from Jaipur, Kota, Alwar, Bharatpur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Ajmer, Jodhpur, Dungarpur, Udaipur and other parts of the state, the health department has taken the decision to conduct door-to-door survey of houses in the entire state to prevent the spread of the diseases. 
 
 A health department official said that the campaign will be launched from March 21 and it will continue till March 23.
 
 The government will take help of nursing colleges’ students and mahila arogya samities along with the civic bodies of the respective districts to conduct the activities. 
 
 The official said that the teams which will conduct door-to-door survey in the state, will also create awareness on prevention of swine flu, scrub typhus, dengue, chikungunya and other vector borne diseases. 
 
 Besides, the civic bodies will conduct fogging in the areas where the mosquito breeding grounds will be found. Also, the health department has directed all chief medical health officers to keep Elisa testing machines for diagnosis of dengue and fogging machines in working condition. 
 
 Besides, pregnant women, elderly and infants which are always at high risk of developing complications due to swine flu will also be covered during the survey. The officials will check health of high risk group and if they found having influenza like illness, they will refer them for treatment at higher centres.
 
 
