In the latest episode of Sa Re Ga Me Pa, Sahithi, a mentor and member of the Grand Jury could not continue in the singing reality show. Instead, playback singer Satya Yamini is now seen as the new mentor. The entire set welcomed her.

  cleared the air over the scoring pattern as well. Here on, for each performance, the main judge panel shall be entitled to award 60 points and the grand jury gets a share of 40 points. 
 
 
 
 
 The first performance in the ongoing Freestyle round was ‘Om Sivoham’ by contestant D Srinivas along with his mentor Anurag. The singing duo gave goosebumps to the viewers and judges alike with their sincere and honest attempt. With a total of 82.1 points (Judges – 48 & Grand Jury – 34.1), Srinivas kick started the show with a bang.
 
 
 
 
 Next to follow was Maneesha with her mentor Anudeep with her choice ‘Jigel Rani’ (from Rangasthalam). With their share of innovative classical tweaks to the original raw and massy number, this performance brought the house down.  , one the main judges even promised to inform Devi Sri Prasad (the original composer of the song) to watch this performance for sure. 
 
 
 
 
 Contestant B Adithya with his mentor Manisha rendered ‘Sasivadane’ (from Iddaru). The main judges looked pleased but the grand jury chose to restrict themselves from giving high point for this classy performance.
 
 Time for the much anticipated special performance of Karthik. He along with a chorus of five (mentors) delivered a praise-worthy fusion mix of Mahaganapathim, the popular classical number.
 
 
 
 
 The main judge panel was all praises for Divya Malika’s voice and her rendition of Nanne Nanna Chustu (Gharshana) along with her mentor Raghu Ram.
 
 
 
 
 Next to entertain with the retro number ‘Aaresukoboyi’ (from Adivi Ramudu) was Dasaradhi Nayak along with his mentor Uma. Karthik quickly joined the stage to shake a leg along with anchor Sreemukhi and the contestants for a brief repeat of the song.
 
 A special audio visual of contestant Dasaradhi, 40, the oldest participant in the batch was displayed. In the byte, Dasaradh spoke about his bitter past and his motto behind his participation in the show.
 
 
 
 
 Peppy number ‘Everybody’ (from Jagadam) was the choice of Jayaraj and his mentor Prithvi Chandra. The main judge panel instantly fell in love with Jayaraj’s energy and rendition. 
  
 In this episode, Sreemukhi accomplished her goal of turning Karthik into a Telugite. Judges   and   also joined for the traditional ‘Aksharabhyasam (initiation to education)’ ceremony. 
 
 
 
 
 The next performance was ‘Violin Song’ (from Iddarammayilatho) by Haripriya and her mentor Saketh. This melodious performance got a mixed response. Rama Jogayya Sastry, one of the judges advised Haripriya to work on consistency in her rendition. 
 
 
 
 
 The singing duo performed to Thakitha thakita (from Jeans). 
 
 In a short and funny guessing game, all the judges correctly guessed the quirky expressions by anchor Sreemukhi.
 
 With an astounding performance, Maneesha has been named the ‘Performer of the Day’.
 
 
