MUMBAI: Around three years ago,  , a horse trainer from Hyderabad was handed over an unusual looking filly from her breeder (owner of the farm where she was born). There was nothing really outstanding about her, except that her oddly-structured front legs didn’t really make her a hot prospect to win a normal race, let alone a derby. None of her siblings, borne by Chinese Whisper, had set the turf on fire.

 
 Finding no takers, Raju decided to keep her in his stable and started training her.
 
 Three years later — the reluctant trainer has virtually struck a jackpot which has made him and co-owners richer by nearly Rs 2 crores. The filly named —   — has won nine of her 15 starts finishing second thrice and third once. It’s for this she is now being seen as the reigning queen of Indian horse racing. Her successful runs have not only made her trainer wealthier but also earned the interest of top horse owner,  , who recently paid a princely sum to buy a major share in her with an eye on clinching the Indian Derby, an event he’s not been able to win since the last three decades.
 
 Lady In Lace will certainly be the cynosure of all eyes when she takes field at the Mahalaxmi Racecourse on Sunday.
 
 “I am living my dream,” says Raju who had not won a single regional Derby in his two decade old career before Lady In Lace won the Pune Derby for him last October. “To have a fancied runner in the Indian Derby, the most sought after crown in Indian racing, is a dream come true for me. If she wins, I think I will go mad,” adds the 50-year-old.
 
 Lady In Lace, however, will not be running in his colours (colour of jersey that jockey wears) after the deal with Pallonji just before her Indian 1000 Guineas victory last month.
 
 Though there are 12 contenders in the fray, many of them capable of landing a shock win, the biggest challenge for Lady In Lace will, however, come from multi-classic winners Prevalent Force and Manifold. Bengaluru challenger Prevalent Force, trained by Darius Byramji, has already won his previous six races in a row while local queen Manifold, schooled by country’s best trainer  , is a formidable contender.
 
 Raju, however, isn’t bothered. “My filly has already beaten Manifold but lost to Prevalent Force in the Deccan Derby when the track conditions were poor on that day, so I don’t think that defeat was a big deal.”
 
 The one factor which has created doubts in the minds of her fans is the lack of preparation heading into the marquee event. The Lady In Lace was down with a lung infection which forced her to skip the Indian Oaks, won by Manifold.
 
 But her rider,  , one of the top riders in the business today, claims that after her impressive mock race recently, she has bounced back strongly. “I galloped her last Monday over a mile, and she could not have done better. I strongly believe she is peaking at the right time.”
 
 
