CENTURION: The grass banks at SuperSport Park are a joy for Test cricket. Drive down here with foldable chairs, enough supper, drinks or even bring along the barbecue.

 A family brought in an inflatable water pool. They all slid into the vessel and enjoyed the day’s play. Another group walked in with a proper drum-kit and sang along.
 
 The idea was to have fun. Cape Town was India’s best chance. Centurion? No chance. At least that’s the idea they had in mind.
 
 
 
 
 
 Numbers will tell you they were right. But that’s the thing about Test cricket. For all the fun, numbers never tell the full story.
 
 And so was the case at the here on Day One. Winning the toss and electing to bat first, Faf du Plessis could’ve done little wrong. Put enough runs on the board, and then let loose a four-man pace attack on the Indians.
 
 The plan was set.
 
 The wicket offered Plan B. It offered India another good chance of coming back in this series and left du Plessis’s team in a quandary as the contest turned exciting.
 
 
 
 
 
 The first session of play belonged to   — Dean Elgar and  , the latter in particular, putting together an 85-run stand for the first wicket. After a decent start, the Indian bowlers sprayed, attempting to judge the right length again on a very slow wicket. The bounce remained erratic and so did their length. All of that took time as the hosts began freeing their arms.
 
  
  
 
 It was Markram’s wicket that first allowed India to sniff a different route and creep in. Elgar was the first to depart, but his partner, who eventually missed his century by just six runs, looked bent on consolidating. It wasn’t for no reason that   walked up to the 23-year-old and said “well played” even as India celebrated a vital dismissal.
 
 South Africa were 148-2, still looking good, as   walked in. His departure after another 51-run stand would mark the beginning of a drastic change in Saturday’s proceedings, one that would put India in the driver’s seat by the time umpires called it a day.
 
 From 78 for no loss at lunch to 140-1 at tea, South Africa would collapse to 269-6. Given that the hosts have walked in with only five batsmen, that’s quite a handful for Kohli’s team going into Day Two.
 
 Ashwin caught du Plessis’ side by the scruff but adding muscle to it was Hardik Pandya once again. The runout of Hashim Amla, who worked his way back into form after a poor run, did his team a huge favour. Walking away at 82, Amla’s wicket would open the gates for equally important dismissals — that of skipper de Villiers, Quinton de Kock and Vernon Philander. It’s now the tail that India’s got to polish off before the bigger challenge, of putting runs on the board, begins once again.
 
 Neither team thought the wicket had caught them by surprise. Ashwin, the bowler of the day, said: “It was just a slow track and I’m happy I got to play my part. It was a good last session for us. It was hard for the pacers with the new ball because it wasn’t doing much. I think Day Two and Three will be very good for batting.”
 
 The off-spinner clearly doesn’t think the spin was outrageous. Since both teams have gone with four pacers into the game, India believes it’s still status-quo for now.
 
 
