GURUGRAM: The construction of a 3km-long road through the   in Gurugram’s   and Shikohpur villages is drawing protests from environmentalists who claim it has been illegally built and violates the ban on non-forest activity in the ecologically fragile ranges. 

 TOI visited the area on Friday and found the road that has been built after chopping trees in an area protected under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab and Haryana Land Protection Act (PLPA) 1990. The 3km stretch, which starts from Sakatpur hill junction and ends near a temple, provides direct access to the hills from the national highway.
 
 Local   claimed at least 500 trees have been felled to build the road that will eventually be extended to Pandala, 6km away, to connect the area with illegal farmhouses in   and Gairatpur Bas. On Friday, they lodged a complaint with the forest department. “The road construction work was going on for the past two months. It has been done very cleverly as work on other roads such as a revenue rasta to link Sakatpur with Tikli and sector roads in the area are going on simultaneously. It has been done to create an impression that everything was done officially,” said a local resident, who did not wish to be named.
 
 “It’s said that the work was done by the state public works department, without any approval to cut a road through the Aravalis. It has been done to give benefit to the farmhouse owners,” added the villager.
 
 Environmentalist Vivek Kamboj has demanded strict action against the forest department. “Officials concerned should be suspended immediately as construction of road can’t take place without their knowledge. An FIR should immediately be registered against the people involved in such illegal activity,” he said.
 
 “All the trees that have been cut should be replanted and no further damage to the existing vegetation be caused. Also, it is not the first such instance. Instances of encroachment on forest land and construction of roads and walls by land mafia are increasing in the Aravalis. When will the forest department be held responsible?” said Kamboj.
 
 Officials in the forest department, however, maintained that no construction can take place in the area without the permission of the Union ministry of environment and forest and climate change (MoEF & CC). 
 
 “The forest department has no authority to give permission to carry out construction in the area. A permission is required from the MoEF & CC. As far as we know, no permission has been granted by the Union ministry,” said an official.
 
 
