PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Civic-run   Memorial Hospital at   in Pimpri will soon have a postgraduate institute, night shelters, multi-level parking space and a canteen, among others facilities as the state government has granted it an additional FSI of 0.5.

 With this, the hospital now has a total floor space index (FSI) of 1.5. As a special provision,   has granted Rs 50 crore to the hospital for starting the facilities. “The master plan and maps should be prepared for starting the operation theatres, postgraduate institute, night shelters, multi-level parking space, renovation of the infants’ department and repairs to doctors’ residences,” civic officials said, adding that the postgraduate institute is likely to start by next year.
 
 In April last year, the state government had given the approval letter for starting three-year postgraduate medical courses, which will be affiliated to the BJ Medical College, Pune. “The initial intake capacity would be 44 seats,” medical and health officials said.
 
 There are 10 faculties including medicine, surgery, paediatrics, orthopaedics, psychology, ear, nose and throat, pathology, ophthalmology and gynaecology. The YCMH has a 650-bed capacity. Former municipal commissioner   had in 2012 mooted the idea of starting the postgraduate institute at the hospital to ensure presence of additional doctors at the health hub.
 
 It is the largest municipal hospital of PCMC. It is a multi-speciality hospital. Around 2,000 to 3,000 patients visit the hospital every day to get medical care at its various out-patient departments. It not only caters to patients from Pimpri Chinchwad, but also from Maval, Khed, Junnar, Ambegaon and other talukas of the district. Migrants as well as their relatives coming from different parts of the state and nation also undergo treatment here since such medical facilities are not available in their native places.
 
 “The new facilities, especially that of parking, will be of huge help to patients visiting the hospital,” experts said, adding once the PG institute is started here, there will be additional doctors to attend to patients. “The current strength is not enough to cater to the large number of patients who visit the facility on daily basis. And the situation has been like this for a long time,” they said.
 
 In October last year, the civic body discussed a policy decision on either increasing the honorarium of YCHM doctors or allowing them to conduct private practice after the office hours.
 
 The issue was discussed in a meeting on the improvement of healthcare services at YCMH. Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and civic officials of various departments participated in it. 
 
 The discussion was initiated after the corporators had then alleged that resident medical officers don't stick around in PCMC for long because they get less allowance. “Their allowance needs to be increased to retain them, for which a policy has to be formed,” they had said.
 
 
