CHANDIGARH: A public toilet in the Sector-23 Bamboo Valley has fallen apart within just three years of opening. Once constructed for convenience, the building lies abandoned, with broken tiles, debris, and pieces of inner walls all over the floor. 

 Its walls are crumbling at various spots and burglars have removed its water pipes and original fittings, leaving a long trail of uprooted plaster on the edges. The plunderers have stripped the toilet of all taps, seats, and windowpanes, and left holes in place of bulbs, tube-lights, and electrical sockets. The interior walls are covered in thick, spider webs, contributing to the ghostly appearance of the long-deserted ruins.
 
 The thieves that cleaned its electricity junction box of wires and fuses left open sockets that once had electrical equipment in those. A thick layer of rust has formed over the toilet’s basic iron structure. The worst section of this building with two doors and separate rooms is the floor of the inner toilet—covered in solid fecal matter infested with insects and emitting a gut-wrenching stench. The bathroom floor is littered with damp, tattered clothes along with used condoms. “This a scary place, where it seems a lot of bad things have happened,”   of Sector 23, a regular visitor to the park, said. “Every tap and toilet fixture, even the doors have been stolen and smashed. It is so smelly inside that you cannot even stand close to it for a minute.” 
 
 The place, it appears, was vandalised. Park-goers say they are scared of even passing by this structure haunted by anti-social elements. Sector-23 resident   told TOI: “I don't know when and how this public toilet deteriorated to such an appalling sight but I do wonder about the purpose of creating this structure, if it had to be abandoned. How could the municipal corporation ignore the maintenance of a public facility for so long? How could they throw it to the thieves and anti-social elements and never question any of the maintenance agencies? How is all that possible?”
 
 The toilet seems to have been used for illegal activities over time. Its interiors carry urine marks along with the residue of human and animal waste.
 
 
