CHENNAI: In a contest where the fortunes of   and   depended so heavily on Jeje and   respectively, it was the latter who had the last laugh. The Indian captain scored his ninth goal of the   (ISL) and delivered two assists as   notched up a 3-1 win over 10-man Chennaiyin at   here on Tuesday.

 Jeje, on the other hand, failed to convert a penalty on an unusually quiet evening for the Mizo striker. The visitors extended their lead at the top to seven points as a result. BFC now have 30 points from 14 matches while Chennaiyin remain at second with 23 points in 13 matches.
 
 To compound matters for the home side, skipper Henrique Sereno was sent off in the 71st minute for a second yellow card after committing a foul on Bengaluru’s Venezuelan forward Miku.
 
 Barely 90 seconds into the match, BFC had the ascendancy with   finding the back of the net.  , who came into the side in place of the suspended Rahul Bheke, sent in a cross from the right and found Chhetri on the far post. The Indian captain subsequently set it up for Boithang with a header into his path. While Chennaiyin goalkeeper Karanjit Singh came charging down and got some connection on the ball, the 26-year-old’s shot rolled in to give them a 1-0 lead.
 
 Chhetri could have made it 2-0 soon after courtesy some good work by Miku and Udanta Singh down the right, but the 33-year-old’s shot was blocked by defender Mailson Alves.
 
 As the first half progressed, though, the home side started seeing more of the ball. Most of the threat for Chennaiyin in the early stages came from Dutch winger Gregory Nelson, who tested Gurpreet Singh Sandhu in the Bengaluru goal on a couple of occasions.
 
 In the 33rd minute, their increasing dominance reaped rewards. It was once again Nelson who found Jerry Lalrinzuala on the left. The Mizoram lad delivered an inch-perfect cross, making Francisco Fernandes’ job much easier as the right-sided winger headed the ball past Gurpreet to make it 1-1.
 
 Having finished the first half as the stronger of the two sides, it was a big jolt for Chennaiyin when BFC went back ahead in the 63rd minute. While Miku notched up his eleventh goal of the campaign in the process, it was all down to Chhetri. From Dimas Delgado’s free-kick, Chhetri made a clever run towards the left and shot on the turn with his weaker foot. Once again, Karanjit managed to get a hand on his shot, but couldn’t deflect the ball wide of the post. Forever lurking in front of goal, Miku displayed the instincts of a goal poacher to slot the ball home.
 
 Things only went from bad to worse for Chennaiyin with Sereno’s sending-off in the 71st minute and Jeje’s penalty miss in the 76th after midfielder Dhanpal Ganesh was brought down by Harmanjot. Chhetri’s goal in the 90th minute was only a reaffirmation of Bengaluru’s standing in the league as they wrapped up a 3-1 win to all but seal a playoff berth.
 
