SHILLONG: With the date for the state assembly election being announced on Thursday, political parties are bracing for the February 27 showdown. 

 While the National People's Party (NPP), headed by Tura MP Conrad Sangma, and the BJP have emerged as major contenders to unseat the Congress from power, regional parties - including the   (UDP) and the Hill State Peoples Democratic Party (HSPDP) - have joined ranks to take on the ruling party, even as their relations vis-a-vis the BJP remains ambiguous. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has also launched a vigorous campaign in the state.
 
 A senior leader of the Congress said on Thursday, "We are going to announce our final list of candidates now." The BJP is also preparing its list of aspirants, according to party sources.
 
 Although hit by a series of desertions ahead of the poll, the ruling Congress has exuded confidence that anti-incumbency will not be a factor. Chief minister Mukul Sangma, who presents a rare case of a executive head in the state nearing completion of more than one term, has said, "We shall fare even better this time."
 
 Newly appointed state Congress president Celestine Lyngdoh said the polls this time would be an "ideological fight" with the BJP. Party insiders say the election strategy of the Congress will be two-fold - to fight anti-incumbency by projecting development and to fight the BJP by playing the secular card. CM Mukul Sangma has himself gone on record to lambast the BJP and the RSS for having 'ulterior motives' of changing the fundamental secular fabric of the country.
 
 The BJP, which currently has no elected member in the assembly, is bracing for a battle of prestige. Prime Minister   and party chief   have recently addressed rallies here, calling for a change of guard, exhorting the state that it is 'time for change and time for BJP'.
 
 Conrad Sangma, representing the NPP's poll promises, has said in a series of election rallies recentty that his party stands for development of the entire northeast region.
 
 NCP general secretary   has also recently visited the state capital and addressed an election rally in the Garo Hills, calling for ouster of the Congress from power.
 
 
