NEW DELHI: The forced change in venue is turning out to be a blessing for   (CSK), who stand to gain over Rs 1.5 crore from the sale of tickets in the Pune stadium for every home game. The franchisee was forced to leave their home turf due to protests over Cauvery river water dispute in Tamil Nadu. Sources said that  , which made between Rs 2 to 2.5 crore from every home game at Chepauk, is going to make over Rs 4 crore from ticket receipts.

 
 With a few of the Chepauk stands not operational over dispute with the civic authorities, CSK could only afford around 23,000 spectators inside their home ground. With Pune having a capacity of over 36,000, CSK is actually benefiting a lot.
 
 Although, Friday’s game against the Rajasthan Royals may not have seen a full house in Pune, but the next five games are almost sold out, according to Maharashtra Cricket Association. Source said that CSK still made around Rs 2 crore from 20,000 spectators and in next few home games, they would make more.
 
 Another MCA source confirmed that the next few games would be a full-house affair.“The next two games against the Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders are all sold out.Even the Mumbai Indians game would be a sold out affair,” the source said.
 
 Sources also said uncertainty whether the venue would be eventually available or not could have created doubts in the minds of the Pune fans, but Friday's   game has given clarity to all the fans. It is also revealed that the CSK management is paying around Rs 50 lakh for every game to ferry around 1,000 fans from Chennai and will continue to do so for the rest of the five games in Pune.
 
 If CSK would have played their home games at the Brabourne stadium in Mumbai as per their choice, the revenue from the ticket sale wouldn’t have matched the amount which they are going to make from Pune. Earlier too, a team like the Kings XI Punjab benefited by three folds by playing their home games out of Pune. Their team owners even wanted to shift their base to Pune because of the overwhelming support from the crowd there. 
 
