Think of single parenting, and the many images that come to mind would be that of a person juggling the two challenging roles, trying hard to do a good job of both. 

 Well, not for  , a Kochi based single mom of a two-year-old. Ever since her son Aarav turned 20 days old, Kavya has been travelling with him and the experience, she says, has been “enthralling’’. “It’s not a piece of cake, but why miss out on all things exciting in life just because you’re a single parent?” asks the 31-year-old, a freelance PR professional.
 Baby Aarav was born in Qatar and bringing the three-week-old newborn to India for his naming ceremony was the first trip the duo undertook together. “My holiday plan gave a fit to everyone who heard of it. But once I got a clean chit from my son’s pediatrician, I hopped on a plane. Much to my relief, he slept through the four-hour journey and it was hassle-free. Since then, there has been no looking back!” says Kavya.
 
 Later, they moved to Kerala, and soon after, took off to Dubai to celebrate Kavya’s 30th birthday. “We did all the things that normal travellers would do and had a gala time.” This was followed by a trip to Thailand and many places in India as well, including Delhi, Agra, Rishikesh, Mumbai and more. A few months ago, Kavya and Aarav travelled to Colombo, Sri Lanka, and later to Disneyland in Hong Kong, for Aarav’s second birthday. 
 
  
  “Travelling with my son gives me a sense of achievement, confidence and independence. I feel accomplished and free and the experiences I get from each of the holidays excite me. My little one enjoys them too in his own way. He totally takes after me when it comes to travelling. I also have a best friend in a stroller during these trips,” she says.
 How does she manage it all with a kid when even travelling abroad solo can be challenging? “Packing smart and staying organised is the key,” says the confident mom. "Taking along things to entertain the kid when he gets bored, online check-ins in advance, stocking up enough baby food and other baby essentials, requesting for an infant bassinet in the flight, informing the hotel in advance about staying with a kid are a few steps which can make your trip hassle-free,” she says.
  
  Holidays with kids might seem daunting to many but it puts you in a position of advantage too many a time, she reveals. “You get many preferential advantages like not having to wait in queues, getting the preference to board flights early, special assistance in-flight and more. Most hotels have a lot to offer children with their kid-friendly policies as well. Moreover, people act much better and nicer when they see you have an infant with you,’’ says Kavya. The mom swears that till date, she has never had a bad experience and have even done snorkeling, skiing and even paragliding. “I try all kinds of foods as well, but play safe with his and feed him mostly fruits and vegetables.”
  
  
 “Having a mini-me in tow does not stop me from following my passion of visiting new places and exploring new cultures. Aarav has been an incredibly easy travel companion and has given me zero trouble till date, inspiring me to plan more holidays,’’ says Kavya. Travelling with children, she feels, is a great way of forming lasting memories with them. Apparently, many of her friends ask her, “Why are you dragging a toddler along with you on your trips, he’ll never remember any of it anyway.” Her reply is, “True, he probably won’t. But I whole-heartedly believe that every day, every situation and every person we meet along our way are little bricks that help one mould one’s personality and I want my son to be strong and resilient.”
 And it’s not always exotic destinations and long holidays, Kavya and Aarav never miss an opportunity to hit the roads on weekends too in Kerala. They check out the many different beautiful spots within the State. “Those quick getaways fascinate us equally. There are many hidden gems in Kerala too that are yet to be explored by many,” she says.
 Kavya’s tryst with the passion of travelling goes back to her teenage days. “I have been to around 11 countries including Turkey, Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Lakshwadeep —both as a solo traveller and with friends. My favourite destination in India is Kashmir and I also have great memories from Maldives, the most exotic place I have been to.” So, where’s the mom-son duo heading to next? “A month-long trip to Europe is my dream and it’s on my travel itinerary for next year. Before Aarav starts school, we want to travel as much as possible and make the most of his free time,” she signs off.
 
