MONACO: It needs a man of the 1980s to draw a parallel between   and  .   was the two-time   in decathlon at the Moscow (1980) and Los Angeles (’84) Games before he lost the crown. And being a Briton, he knows his cricket too.

 
 Thompson, who has lost the bushy moustache that was once part of his personality, says decathlon and Test Cricket are alike in the sense that people will continue to take up these sports even if the rewards are few and far between.
 
 “Decathlon is a difficult sport,” says Thompson. “These days people’s attention spans are getting shorter and shorter and the event has remained the same. It is like Test cricket. It used to be all that was. Now, of course, there are three different variations and cricket is getting smaller and smaller.”
 
 But the 59-year-old remains optimistic about the future of both decathlon and Test Cricket. “The good thing is that a decathlete understands that he is never going to get the big crowd or the attention or the money. People do it because it is their thing and they want to do it.”
 
 Thompson, who is a member of the  , explains why decathlon isn’t for everyone. “Training for decathlon is far greater. Most people don’t have the ability to train for the length of time it takes and people get scared off because it is a lot of work and you don’t get the acclaim as opposed to an individual event.”
 
 But Thompson believes that, unlike Test cricket, decathlon can grow. “There is lots left in decathlon. I thought Ashton Eaton (two-time Olympic champion who is now retired after winning in Rio) is going to get much better because his performance in individual events was always good. But he never really had a great one which is a shame because he would have been a few hundred points more than the current world record that he holds,” says Thompson.
 
 Going back to the 80s, Thompson had a storied rivalry with West German Jurgen Hingsen whom he beat in all competitions. But he very matter-of-factly says he never had any sympathy for his rival. “Never once did I feel sorry for Jurgen because I trained so hard and religiously because he was so good. That is the most respect that I can pay somebody.”
 
 Thompson also considers himself lucky to have competed in the1980s along with fellow Britons and middle-distance champions, Sebastian Coe and  . “We have won more athletics medals in recent times but it was better (in the 80s) because athletics was the biggest sport internationally in Britain. Football for some reason or another was not the No. 1 sport. Also, there was a lucky mix of great sports personalities in the 1980s,” he says.
 
 Thompson’s era as a decathlete came to a dramatic end in the 1988 Seoul Olympics when he broke the pole during the pole vault, which was his favourite event because he was the only one clearing five metres then. But he says he felt nothing when he lost and finished outside the medal bracket for the first time in almost eight years. “You get angry because your pole is broken but the worst thing is the little bit of the pole stuck in my elbow and I needed seven sutures.”
 
