THANE: The   here has rejected the   of the two accused who were running the   from a residential complex from the Kasarwadavli area.

 The sessions judge S C Khalipe rejected the plea of Zorawar Rajput, a mechanical engineer, and Rakesh Kodwani in separate orders. The duo were arrested in a midnight raid carried out by the Kasarawdavali police on February 27, this year.
 
 The duo had moved the plea stating that they are falsely implicated in the case and they are not aware of any type of work that the absconding accused used to do and their detention is not required.
 
 While Pradip Ugale, investigation officer told the court that the accused are doing business of purchasing leads of American people through various calling applications-- eyebeam, Xilite software and accepting voice messages through skype-- software.
 
 The accused induced the American citizens that they are the employees of a   and asked them whether they require any loan and for that they demanded money from American citizens as processing fee of loan proposal. “They asked the people to purchase the target cards and after purchasing the cards by the victims, the accused would procure the 16 digit number and cheated them . The accused did not provide any loan to the American citizens and only they take leads of the American people and collected processing fee,” the officer told the court.
 
 The other accused identified were Jigan Panchal, Imran, Divyesh and Montu. If this accused is released on bail, he is likely to help the wanted accused. The present accused and Jigar Panchal had started the call centers. So, if the present accused is released on bail, it is very difficult to investigate the call center. There may be a big racket as these accused had cheated so many American people and collected lot of money, the investigation officer told the court and prayed to reject the plea.
 
 The judge after hearing both the sides, pointed out that considering the objections raised by the investigation officer, there is primafacie case made out against the accused and the investigation is not yet completed and four accused are wanted. There is no ground made out to release the applicant on bail at this stage. So considering the facts of this case, the application is liable to be rejected.
 
 
