MYSURU: Exuding confidence of the party sweeping the assembly elections, JD(S) candidate for Chamundeshwari   on Sunday said, “HD Kumaraswamy will be the next chief minister of Karnataka.” 

 Devegowda, who inaugurated the workers conference of the   (BSP), with which the JD(S) has allied for the upcoming elections, added, “BSP chief Mayawati will be the next Prime Minister.”
 
 Appealing to Dalits in Chamundeshwari segment to extend support to the JD(S), Devegowda said, “BSP is more powerful than the Congress in the country. The BSP’s support was vital to the success of the Kumara Parva Yatre in the state. Only regional parties can ensure the development of the country. People should vote for regional parties.”
 
 Devegowda also made an impassioned plea to the voters to show their support for the BSP’s N Mahesh, who was contesting from the Kollegal assembly segment.
 
 Claiming that he had played a vital role in helping   becoming the deputy chief minister, Devegowda said, “There was a lot of opposition to his being the deputy CM. But, we had worked together for nearly 23 years, and I decided to support him. But he left the JD(S) and joined the Congress. He because the leader of the opposition, and later the CM by subduing senior Dalit leaders such as Mallikarjun Kharge, G Parameshwara, V Srinivas Prasad and others.”
 
 Stating that the Congress high command had turned into a puppet in the hands of Siddaramaiah, Devegowda said, “The CM’s campaign rally in Chamundeshwari constituency has floppwed. I have requested Kumaraswamy to participate in the campaign rally in the segment on April 15 and 16.”
 
 Mahesh, who is also the president of the Karnataka unit of the BSP, said, “There are 40,000 Dalit voters in Chamundeshwari, who are concentrated in 100 booths. Each booth will have 20 Dalit BSP workers, and each of them will have to work hard to get 20 votes for Devegowda, which will guarantee he gets 20,000 Dalit votes. By voting for Devegowda, Dalits can support the JD(S)-BSP alliance.”
 
 BSP state president and Kollegal constituency candidate N Mahesh said that people should vote against Siddaramaiah in Chamundeshwari constituency to defeat Congress party in the state.
 
 Pointing out that 270 of the 3,800 farmer suicides that had been recorded in the state in the past three years had taken place in Siddaramaiah’s home district, Mahesh said, “There was drought for three years, and farmers suffered huge losses. The Siddaramaiah-led government introduced any welfare programmes to support farmers. Kumaraswamy has assured that he will waive off all farm loans completely if the JD(S) comes to power.”
 
 Historian PV Nanjaraja Urs and others were present on the occasion.
 
 
