It’s difficult to miss their sizzling chemistry. He’s a leading   who has given voice to many Bollywood and Gujarati films. She’s an actress and singer too.   and   have carved their niche in the entertainment industry. During their recent visit to Ahmedabad, they talk about Ahmedabad,   and their love for  . 

 What do you love the most about Ahmedabad?
 Manasi: I love coming to Ahmedabad for its food and all the love and recognition I receive from people here. I always find this city as quite user-friendly.
 Parthiv: This city has given me recognition, I remember doing small shows in Ahmedabad. We used to have lots of music baithaks here in the city post dinner. I always love coming back to Ahmedabad as the city is home. I have maximum shows in Ahmedabad.
 
 Parthiv, you have been a part of Gujarati film industry as a singer-composer. How do you both see the possibilities the industry now offers? 
 Manasi: The industry is growing fantastically which is a matter of pride. People from different parts of the world now want to have creative collaborations with the Gujarati film fraternity. This will definitely result in growth.
 Parthiv: Gujarati film industry is doing great after a long period of vacuum. We have tremendous possibilities to grow and I feel good content will drive D-town’s growth. We just need to give more time.
 Both of you are now a part of the digital entertainment space. So how do you visualise its growth in the coming years? 
 Manasi: I think youngsters are really inclined towards digital shows. We have very few television shows that are youth-oriented. So, the youngsters today are prime consumers of digital entertainment content. The attention span of youngsters makes shows with 10- 15 minutes of duration work. Now, less is more and merrier too. 
 Parthiv: Digital space has encouraged a lot of people to show their talent which is wonderful. Yes, there is competition, but it’s always nice to have healthy competition. It is also a fantastic medium to stay connected with all your fans and followers.
 How has parenthood changed your life and relationship? 
 Manasi: I am thoroughly enjoying this phase of my life as a mother. I am also doing a digital show revolving around motherhood. I really love the way our daughter Nirvi also cooperates with us, be it during Parthiv’s concerts, family vacations or even at home. She has made our life more beautiful. The only thing that has changed is now I get to spend less time with my friends. 
 Parthiv: Nirvi has taught me to be sensible. As travelling constitutes a major part of my professional life, there are occasions I make sure that both Nirvi and Manasi travel with me. Earlier after a concert, I used to explore the place, now I rush back home to be with them. 
 
 
