Nagpur: Industrialists of the region are in general disappointed with the Budget. They feel that there is not much for them in this Budget and focus is on other sectors. Some rued lack of a road map to reduce non-performing assets (NPAs) that would generate a lot of employment. They hoped that boost to farm sector would lead to increase consumer spending and help industries. Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) president Atul Pande said that most disappointing feature of the Budget was no mention of non-performing assets (NPAs) especially of SMEs. “If NPAs were addressed, they would have generated employment. Today many SMEs are functioning at less than half capacity or have closed down. Focusing on new investment is OK but existing industries should also be given attention,” he said. Pande further said that along with policy announcements, delivery commitment was necessary. “Ease of doing business should reduce our unproductive time. It does not help us if our world ranking goes up,” he added. The VIA chief welcomed impetus given to food processing industries and bamboo-based industries. “Vidarbha will definitely get a decent share of Rs1,290 crore allocated under Bamboo Mission,” he said. Butibori Manufacturers Association (BMA) president Nitin Lonkar calls the Budget not an encouraging one for industries. “The Budget mostly focuses on farm and health care sector and has not given much relief to industries. The venture capitalists have got some boost. The corporate tax exemption limit for small scale industries has been increased from Rs200 crore to Rs250 crore, which is not much. Steps have been taken to promote the textile sector. The Budget is more about ease of living than ease of doing business,” he said. Lonkar further said the personal income tax exemption limit should have been increased from Rs2.5 lakh to Rs3 lakh to boost consumer spending. MIDC Industries Association, Hingna, president Chandramohan Randhir also echoed the same feeling calling it not an industries-favoured Budget. “It was a pro-poor Budget. If farmers get more money for their produce, it will lead to increase in consumer spending and boost business and industry. However, the measures should not remain on paper. The move to increase corporate tax exemption limit is welcome. The provision of providing online loans to small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) will make the bank officials accountable. Today we don’t get loans even after running from pillar to post,” he said. Former VIA president Pravin Tapadia termed the Budget as a routine one. “The corporate tax exemption limit has been increased, which is good but this should have been given to partnership firms too. Re-introduction of long term capital gains tax is good as this would divert money towards industry. Fiscal deficit has been maintained at a controllable level through disinvestment, which is alarming. Disinvestment funds should be used for capital expenditure only,” he said.