PATNA: Chief minister   on Friday inaugurated or laid stones of 198 old and new projects worth Rs 304 crore from a public meeting at   village in Supaul district.

 The CM was in Supaul in course of his Vikas Sameeksha Yatra. He appealed to the people to educate their sons and daughters till Class XII after which they would be able to pursue higher studies with the education loan taken by them through the state government’s Student Credit Card.
 
 He also called upon the people to participate in the human chain, to be formed on January 21 as part of the state government’s campaign against prohibition, dowry and child marriage. He asked them to inform police about the violation of prohibition laws in their areas.
 
 In the next four years, the CM said, every household in the state will get safe drinking water through a piped supply system being developed under his ‘Saat Nischay’, or seven resolves, initiative. Underlining his government’s commitment to development, the CM said as promised, all the villages were electrified by December last year, and now all the households would be provided power connection by the end of 2018.
 
 Earlier, the CM reviewed the progress of various development schemes in Supaul district, and inspected the work done in ward number 4 of   village under the seven resolves. He also inaugurated a solar light-powered mini water supply system.
 
 Nitish also reviewed the progress of his government’s development initiatives in the area that had been ravaged by the   floods in 2008. The then   government led by   had released Rs 1,010 crore to meet the crisis created by the Kosi calamity. Referring to the central assistance, Nitish said the aid was not in proportion to the extent and intensity of the damages and the state government had to take Rs 3,400 crore as loan from the   to carry out the Kosi Recovery Project. 
 
 He also discussed the steps taken by the government for the empowerment of women and girls through education, improved school infrastructure, 50% reservation for women in panchayat and urban local bodies as well as 35% reservation in police constabulary and promotion of the self-help groups.
 
 
