RAIPUR: Alleged extortion and beating by police in   drove a truck driver to set himself on fire in the middle of a busy road late Tuesday night. Three cops have been suspended for "insensitivity". 

 The truck driver, Mannu Yadav, was saved by passersby and is in hospital.
 
 "I was hungry since morning and they were demanding Rs 2,000 from me. They slapped me repeatedly. It was so humiliating that I decided to end my life then and there," Manu said, haltingly, from his hospital bed. He got diesel from his truck, poured it on himself and set it alight. Since the road was crowded, people jumped to the rescue.
 
 Raipur SP   denied the allegations but agreed that police should have shown more sensitivity.
 
 "Mannu seems to have been emotionally drained as he was starving since morning and making peculiar statements before police. Cops should have understood his condition through his mental state and style of speech. Two constables and an inspector have been suspended for error in judgment, lack of sensitivity and arguing with him when he was emotionally weak," the SP said.
 
 Mannu was driving towards   when he was intercepted by three traffic policemen at   area of Raipur on Tuesday night. Manu says he was told to show papers and documents of vehicle, which he did, but the cops started asking for Rs 2,200.
 
 "When I said I was a poor man, hadn't even had food since morning and there was no way I could pay Rs 2,200, the policemen started beating me. They kicked, pushed and abused me. Some policemen were sitting in a vehicle, drinking, when another team was extorting money from truck drivers," Mannu told mediapersons in hospital.
 
 He said he got the cops to speak to the truck owner and somehow drove to  , where he was stopped again and not allowed to go any further. 
 
 They allegedly took his papers and refused to give them back unless he paid up.
 
 "I was again beaten up. I felt so helpless. I get paid Rs 2,000 for driving and cops often demand money from us. I wasn't carrying that much money so I pleaded with them to spare me, but got beaten instead. I was starving and the humiliation broke me. I decided to kill myself," Mannu said.
 
 The immolation halted traffic for over half an hour as passersby put out the fire and took him to nearby private hospital. Videos of the incident went viral, triggering outrage across the city.
 
 On Wednesday, police had to take action. Three cops were suspended. But the SP disputed Mannu's version of events, saying: "He parked his truck in a no-parking area and went to have food. He was challenged for Rs 2,200. It wasn't extortion but the fine he was asked to pay. As far as the beating is concerned, after Manu calmed down at hospital, he denied that he was beaten."
 
 "Manu was emotionally weak at that the moment, which is why he took almost three hours to take the extreme step. He was asked to pay fine around 7.30pm at   and he immolated himself after 9.30pm at Pachpedi Naka," Mishra said. 
 
 The truck owner was called and papers of the vehicle were seized. No FIR has been filed yet. Manu sustained burns in his legs and is said to be out of danger. 
 
 The inquiry report would be submitted in three days, the SP said.
 
 
