NAGPUR: His inspiration to sell tea is not coming from the Indian prime minister, who was once a tea vendor.   says he is eyeing the city’s Rs1 crore per month market for ready-made tea. “Across the nation, the market is Rs11 lakh crore. Some 75 crore people in India drink tea twice a day, and 50% of them drink tea outside the house at least once a day,” says Biyani, an MTech in Chemical engineering, who quit his IT job in Pune to start this business in the city five months back.

 Encouraged by his father-in-law, Biyani gave up a job fetching him an annual package of Rs15 lakh. Along with his wife  , also a software engineer earning Rs12 lakh annually, they selected Nagpur for their new enterprise. “My father said tier-II cities offer potential for growth, and Nagpur, now a smart city, fits the bill,” says Pooja.
 
 The couple did extensive market research for three months before they launched their brand of ready-made tea from their first outlet, Chai Villa at Central Avenue Road. “We first understood the issues that concern a customer while ordering tea. Unhygienic conditions at tea kiosks, bad taste of tea from vending machines, and the exorbitant prices charged by luxurious coffee and tea lounges are the dominant ones. We also tasted tea at more than 100 tea stalls across the city to understand the taste that sells,” says Nitin.
 
 The business model that emerged from this research was 20 different flavours of tea, along with seasonal variants like iced tea and cold coffee, delivered through three different channels. “Our price ranges from Rs8 to Rs20 for a 70ml cup, which is more than the size of a cutting chai at a kiosk, or a cup from a vending machine. We have also formed a network of delivery boys and created locations and points for quick delivery, so that piping hot tea reaches the customer,” explains Navin.
 
 To get volumes in business, the couple has also created a module which they call ATC or Any Time Chai. “We have tapped fruit, vegetable and other vendors, who line up on the roads, and have asked them to keep our tea containers and sell per cup, of which they get a certain amount.” The couple sells 2,000 cups of tea per month through these efforts and have made around Rs15 lakh in five months. Starting with an investment of Rs10 lakh, they have been able to reach a break even point.
 
 They are also eyeing corporate clientele and big events, like the paediatrics conference in the city three months back, where they dispensed 7,000 cups of tea each day. “We have bought especially designed containers from the USA, which are like back-mounted spraying machines. It keeps the guy serving tea mobile, and his hands free, helping him dispense faster,” says Nitin.
 
 The Biyanis have set a target of 15 lakh cups, 10 outlets, 1,000 ATC and 100 employees to be attained over the next 18 months. “This volume will help us achieve an annual turnover of Rs3 crore. But we need an investor for this, who has faith in our plans,” they say.
 
 
