THANE: The cyber crime expert, Ajinkya  , arrested in the illegal procurement of call detail records (CDR) racket had allegedly given call records as part payment for a car that he had bought from one of the private detectives arrested in the case. 

 Nagargoje had allegedly hacked into the email account of the superintendent of police of Yavatmal district and procured 111 CDRs illegally and gave them to arrested detective  . 
 
 "During his interrogation, Nagargoje told us that had got a car from Makwana. The car, a Honda Accord, had an accident in Buldhana and so he could not pay the amount to Makwana who struck a deal with him and asked him to send him the CDRs," a police officer said, adding that they are verifying his claims. 
 
 Nagargoje, who is well qualified, had even conducted classes in cyber forensic for the Yavatmal police. Nagargoje, who has claimed that he is a certified ethical hacker, has told the police that he had hacked into the police superintendent's email account on the pretext of developing the website. "He said that the classes he conducted for the cops had given him a certain proximity and rapport with policemen. He took advantage of this," said the official.
 
 The police said that he had used a US-based cellphone number to be in touch with the other accused in the case and to send them the CDRs. 
 
 He has also cracked the MPSC (mains) exam for the post of deputy superintendent of police.
 
 The police have sought details of the other accused,  , from the company that he worked for.
 
 Also, a team of police officers tracking the main accused, Saurabh Sahoo, in Delhi could not track him down.
 
 In a related development in the case, the police are interrogating India's first woman detective, Rajani Pandit, for the other links in the case. Pandit, said the police, has high-profile clients including politicians and celebrities, but the police said that the probe is not linked to her clients, but pertains only to the illegal sale of CDRs.
 
 The police custody of detectives Prashant Sonawane and Santosh Pandagle was extended till Feb 12 while Nagargoje and Marwah's custody was extended till February 15.
 
 
