LUDHIANA: Four people including two students had lost their lives in road accidents at   on the   in the past few years. However, it has had little impact on the administration. The concerned authorities are yet to come out of slumber. They have failed to install traffic lights at the chowk and today, the chowk has become ‘a hotspot’ for accidents. The Phullanwal Chowk witnesses heavy traffic coming from four sides and the absence of traffic lights makes it an accident-prone zone in the district.

 In December 2015, two students, 19-year-old Smriti Gupta and 18-year-old Ritika  , both residents of  , died in an accident at the chowk when a rashly driven milk van hit their two-wheeler and crushed them to death.
 
 “It is sad that the authorities are yet to install the traffic lights at the Phullanwal Chowk. It’s the main chowk of the city and witnesses heavy traffic. The authorities have placed a few drums and painted them in white to create some sort of obstruction. However, it is a futile exercise as the drums fail to control the vehicles coming from all sides. The chowk is not properly lit thus making it dangerous for the commuters especially during the evening and night hours”, said  , a social activist and area resident.
 
 To make the situation worse,  , a resident of SBS Nagar, said, there is hardly any cop to manage the traffic. “One can witness chaos during the peak hours, which also raises the risk of an accident,” he said.
 
 The area residents claimed that if the authorities do not get the lights installed soon, more lives will be lost. “The authorities need to act fast and get the traffic lights installed at the chowk. They also need to deploy an adequate number of traffic cops to regulate the traffic here if they don’t want to see more people losing their lives in accidents”, said Singh. 
 
 The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) traffic Sukhpal Singh Brar said they have written to the MC multiple times for the installation of traffic lights but no solution has been found. He added that though they haven’t permanently deployed a traffic cop at Phullanwal Chowk, however, a mobile traffic team comprising ASI and constable visit the spot and regulate traffic during peak hours.
 
 MC commissioner   was not available for his comments on the issue but sources in the MC said the chowk has been undergoing some changes in design so the civic body hasn’t installed the traffic lights here. They said now that work is almost complete, the traffic lights will be installed soon.
 
 
