GURUGRAM: Police have found that gangsters   and   lodged in Jhajjar and Bhondsi jails, respectively, jointly planned the  , after interrogating the three men arrested in the case. The gangsters were allegedly in touch through mobile phones.

 Three men have been held in connection with the extortion attempt and shootout at Harish bakery on December 13 when one gunman had opened fire on the cashier who had a narrow escape while another stood guard outside the bakery. Before opening fire, the gunman had handed over a note to the cashier, demanding Rs 50 lakh in the name of Rathi, who is serving a life term for two murders in  . A week ago, police had taken Rathi on three days production remand for questioning. 
 
 After an investigation, the crime unit of the Sector 39 police nabbed Surender alias Sunder, who was close to Rathi for many years, from Manikaran in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday. Cops said Rathi and Kukrola contacted Surender who in turn employed two fresh faces to carry out the bakery shootout, promising them a part of the extortion money. Following a tip-off, the police also arrested the gunmen from Gurgaon on Wednesday night. Neeraj alias Baba, a resident of Mudiya Khera village in Rewari district, and Dharmender alias Dheeraj, a resident of Islampur village in Gurgaon, confessed to the shootout and revealed they were working on instructions of Rathi and Kukrola. The arrested men also claimed that the two gangsters planned other crimes, besides the bakery shootout. Police have recovered three illegal country made pistols from their possession.
 
 After the Harish Bakery shootout, the duo had planned to carry out the same modus operandi in Dhaulpur in Rajasthan and seek ransom from a local businessman. On their way, they allegedly shot dead two youths near Agra, on Yamuna expressway, before stealing their bike. “After the shootout, the two men left for Dhaulpur on December 22 where they planned to extort Rs 10 lakh from a businessman. On their way, their bike engine stopped working. They contacted Surender who asked them to snatch another bike. They targeted a bike on Yamuna expressway and killed the two men riding it. They were given another task to murder a newspaper agency operator in Gurgaon but later the plan was changed by the two gangsters,” said police. 
 
 “Neeraj belongs to a poor family and his father is an auto driver. Dharmender is also new in crime but after the bakery firing, he also fired on one villager. We are questioning them,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon. The police will now seek both gangsters on production remand and aim to recover their mobile phones that were used to direct the trio. “The gangsters planned and coordinated through cellphones from inside the jails and this is what has also left us so shocked. We are questioning the arrested about other plans they might have had and will interrogate the gangsters not just about this case but also security lapses in the two jails,” said Kuhar.
 
 
