It’s   today and the Christian community in Coimbatore is celebrating the   of Jesus Christ at the Calvary. After a 40-day period of prayer, abstinence and fasting in preparation of the occasion, churches in the city wear a festive look.

 Businessman Gerson George, who is celebrating Easter today, tells us, “Every year I got to Malayattur hill shrine in Kerala to perform the  . The 14 stations commemorate Jesus Christ’s last day on the earth. It’s a re-enactment of the passion of the Christ. It is akin to a pilgrimage to the holy land. I along with a bunch of friends performed the prayers at the 14 stations on Palm Sunday. On Good Friday, we did a procession on Trichy Road, which marks the beginning of the Holy Week. We had a mass prayer last night and a special midnight prayer on Jesus Christ resurrection. After the prayers, we distributed Easter eggs to everyone.”
 
 Johnson A from Puliyakulam says that Easter rekindles childhood memories in him. “As a child, we used to play with eggs on Easter. Now, we hide chocolates in eggs and distribute it to children. It is said that eggs symbolize a new birth. Families and friends bond with each other and celebrate the occasion.” For businessman K Santhosh Easter is all about spending quality time with the family. “We attend the mid-might mass at our church in Podanur after which we spend the entire day with the family.” Restaurants in the city are making the most of the day by doling out special Easter lunches. Immanuel S, says, “Easter is more important than Christmas as it marks the resurrection of Christ, which is why it is celebrated in a big way.”
 
 The Easter mass is always marked by a special message and this year is no exception. Evangelist George Manesa from Ebenezer Brethren Church tells CT, “Jesus Christ was a god who was born in the world as a man, to give us happiness, atonement and peace. The crucifixion of Jesus Christ depicts the death caused by the sinful nature of human beings. His resurrection from death shows marks the victory over sins and a future of glory for the mankind. It also marks love, solace, peace and freedom.”
 
