PUNE:   is doing the rounds of Pune. The contagious   which is usually seen in toddlers, is being prominently noticed in city children in the age bracket of 4 to 12 years, say doctors. They attribute the surge to irregular   and  .

 “High grade fevers followed by a rash on the third or fourth day are the main symptoms. The child may also develop a dry cough, sore throat and inflamed eyes (conjunctivitis). I see around 1 to 2 cases of measles every day. There is definite a surge since the last month,” said paediatrician Sanjay Mankar who runs a children’s hospital on Sinhagad road.
 
 Sharing his view, paediatrician Prashant Udawant who practises on Nagar road said, “Boys and girls are equally affected. I see around one to two cases every day. I am also seeing some cases of measles in the adolescent age group.”
 
  
 “Around 60% of measles cases are observed during the summer. The remaining cases are spread over the rest of the year,” said paediatrician Sanjay Lalwani, medical director of Bharati hospital.
 
 Explaining why, Lalwani said, “The government’s immunisation programme requires a single dose of the measles vaccine to be administered at nine months of age. Coverage of the measles vaccine was around 70%. That means that we missed out on 30% of the babies.”
 
 “Secondly, the seroconversion (vaccine induced immunity) is seen only in 85% of the babies vaccinated and the remaining babies who were also vaccinated do not get the protection as the vaccine failed in their case, which is an established fact,” Lalwani said “That’s why the government decided to start a second dose of the measles vaccine to be administered between 16 to 18 months of age irrespective of whether the baby received the first dose or not.
 
 This started three years ago. That’s why the children in the age bracket of three years and above have got only a single dose, due to which they are not adequately protected against the disease,” Lalwani said.
 
 A child diagnosed with measles should be kept away from other children. This is the season of summer camps and there is a possibility that affected children in their initial stages of the disease could spread the infection to others, say experts. Measles usually subsides within 7-10 days.
 
 “Washing of hands is very important. The child should also be given a good diet. Vitamin A supplements should be given to every patient of measles without fail,” said paediatrician Shishir Modak, a former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Pune chapter.
 
 It is important to confirm the clinical diagnosis of measles as children tend to have similar symptoms in other viral infections as well.
 
 “Although children may get rash-like symptoms in other viral infections, the rash in a typical measles case appears on the fourth day of the illness. It shows on the hairline and progresses from the head towards the toes. It disappears in the reverse manner. Having a cough while having measles is very typical as well,” said senior paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar.
 
 According to the World Health Organization, “Measles is a highly contagious viral disease. It remains an important cause of death among young children globally, despite the availability of a safe and effective vaccine.”
 
 WHO’s website adds: “Measles is transmitted via droplets from the nose, mouth or throat of infected persons. Initial symptoms, which usually appear 10–12 days after infection, include high fever, a runny nose, bloodshot eyes, and tiny white spots on the inside of the mouth. Several days later, a rash develops, starting on the face and upper neck and gradually spreading downwards.”
 
 
