CHANDIGARH: In order to inspect infrastructure with regard to ensuring safety and security of children and implementation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act 2009, Chandigarh   (CCPCR) gave a surprise visit to St Kabir School and Strawberry Fields High School of Sector 26 on Friday. 

 Chairperson of the commission   was accompanied by a CCPCR team that comprised law officer Kartar Singh;   consultant Niti Mohan; and RTE consultant Chanchal Singh.
 
 During its inspection at St Kabir School-26, the team appreciated the school management and lauded it for keeping the school's premises clean. It said that the school had well-maintained toilets for children. "They have maintained toilets for drivers, conductors and lady attendants separately," the team stated.
 
 After finishing their inspection at St Kabir, the team visited Strawberry Fields High School, where it appreciated the management for cleanliness. "The toilets for children were well maintained. Economically weaker section (EWS) seats were filled up as per the RTE guidelines. However, during the inspection, fire extinguishers were found to be crossing the expiration date," the team pointed out.
 
 "All in all, both the schools were up to the mark, and we wish that all the schools in the city to come to this level in a bid to ensure the safety of children," said RTE consultant Chanchal Singh.
 
 Earlier in September, the CCPCR held a surprise inspection of private and government schools to check the security measures and other aspects, which ensure child safety and security in school. The move came after the Gurugram incident, in which a class II boy was murdered in a school's washroom by a senior student.
 
 In the past, the commission had inspected various government and private schools. It had directed all the institutions to install CCTV cameras and a complaint box in corridors, and earmark separate washroom for the students of junior and senior wing.
 
 During the surprise checks, the team members mainly focused on elements like boundary walls and other measures taken by schools to ensure safety and security of their students.
 
 
