CHENNAI: The swearing-in of   of JD(S) as the chief minister of Karnataka on Wednesday could well hasten the consolidation process of the regional parties across India on an   platform. With several chief ministers and chiefs of regional parties likely to descend on Bengaluru to be present on the occasion, they could well be thanking voters of Karnataka for presenting them with such an opportunity with their split verdict.

 
 The verdict has helped JD(S) to get back to the limelight and head the government, with the support of  . The combined manoeuvres of the two parties succeeded in thwarting BJP’s attempt to form the government and halting the saffron march in the South.
 
 While Kumaraswamy is busy inviting leaders in person and over phone, quite a few of them, including  , Mayawati and Akilesh Yadav, have already confirmed their participation from the north and east. From the south, the presence of leaders like DMK working president   from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh chief minister   and Telangana chief minister   along with Kerala chief minister  , could prove significant and decisive, since they could connect as a block much quicker than others.
 
 While KCR has been spearheading a move to bring together regional parties under a common front, Naidu fell out with the Centre just recently and is likely to opt for an alternative front. While the Communists have found themselves under constant attack of the BJP/RSS, the DMK has expressed its desire more than once to align with regional parties along with the Congress. “While any policy decision can be announced only by our leader, we are with the Congress already,” DMK Rajya Sabha MP M K Kanimozhi told an English news channel in the wake of recent developments in Karnataka.
 
 “The Karnataka people’s verdict was against BJP, with Congress and JD(S) combined vote share at 55-56%. That will be the trend across the country, but divided at present in many states, after four years of Modi’s rule and with BJP having little or no allies,” TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar told TOI. While there will be a consolidation of regional parties, the Congress is likely to emerge as the single largest party and they will combine to form the next government after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he said. 
 
