NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court quashed a   circular barring   and uniforms in affiliated schools across the country. 

 The court rejected the stand of   that the sale of such items amounted to "commercialisation" of education and noted that availability of books, stationery items and uniforms in the school premises would only add to convenience of parents and students.
 
 In a recent order Justice Rekha Palli quashed a circular dated April 19, 2017 issued by CBSE advising schools not to indulge in any commercial activity by way of selling of books, stationery, uniforms and school bags within the premises and to adhere to the provisions of affiliation bylaws of the board. 
 
 In its circular, CBSE had also asked schools to refrain from forcing parents to purchase books/uniforms from shops within school premises or from selected vendors only. 
 
 "The admitted case of the parties is that the aforesaid items in school shops would be available only to the students of the school and not to outsiders and, therefore, I see no element of commercialisation in sale of these essential items in the school shops," 
 
 HC noted pointing out that sale of books and uniforms in the school shops without any coercion can't be treated as "commercialisation". 
 
 It added that availability of uniforms,   reference books or even food items for sale only to the students of the school cannot be considered "commercialisation". 
 
 The court said the decision of CBSE to prohibit sale of items, needed by students in the schools, merely on the assumption that the availability of these items in school shops could be misused as the students and parents could be forced to buy them only from these shops, appeared to be "wholly arbitrary and quite irrational".
 
 HC also quashed conditions in another circular dated December 18, 2017 prohibiting sale of non-NCERT books in the school shops and directed the CBSE to "take regulatory steps to ensure that the students and parents are not coerced in any manner to buy any items from these shops".
 
 Dealing with the question of commercialisation of education, Justice Palli said "the availability of books, both NCERT and non-NCERT, stationery items and uniforms on school premises would only add to the convenience of the parents and the students".
 
 The court said the use of the school buildings for the purposes of education would put a corresponding duty on the school management to ensure that the students are provided with all necessary facilities to help them pursue education in the school.
 
 
