GURUGRAM: Around a dozen armed men and a woman in three SUVs turned up at the first barrier of   on Tuesday morning in an attempt to attack jail superintendent  , who was appointed only a month ago. The attack was averted owing to the presence of mind shown by a jail warder who managed to scare the assailants away.

 Jagjeet  , IG (jail), said the prison administration has written to the police seeking increased security, but also claimed that they were capable of dealing with the “bad guys”. An FIR was registered against the unidentified assailants but the police so far have no clues about the attempt to attack the jail superintendent. DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar said the first barrier of the jail was not in the range of   cameras.
 
 According to jail warder  , who was on duty at the first barrier, nearly a dozen armed men and a woman in two Fortuners and one Scorpio approached him around 2:30am on Tuesday. The first barrier guards the quarters of the jail superintendant and other staff, and is followed by a second barrier which is right outside the main gate of the jail. 
 
 Singh said a woman, along with the driver, was on the front seat of the first SUV. The other men in the car seemed to be bouncers. The men told the warder that they wanted to meet jail superintendent Jai Kishan   but the warder insisted that they place a call to Chillar first. When the men said they didn’t have a mobile phone, the warder started walking towards the guard room to call Chillar on the intercom. The men called him back and tried to bribe him. But the warder refused and walked to the intercom again. This time, the men came out of the car with revolvers and guns in their hands. The warder, however, couldn’t reach out to the superintendent and other officials on intercom, but started talking into it and pretended he was calling for the reinforcement of forces. This scared the men, who then escaped after hurling abuses at the warder and threatening to kill Chillar. 
 
 “A woman was sitting in the front seat of the first SUV. The driver was wearing a safari suit and there were other men in the rear seats. They wanted to meet the jail superintendent. But the numberplates of all three SUVs were covered with black clothes and that made me suspicious. I asked them to talk to the superintendent first. One of them said they had left their mobile phone at home. So I walked towards the intercom to talk to the superintendent, but a man called me and gave me five to seven notes of Rs 2,000, which I denied. I again picked up the intercom but it was not connecting owing to some technical glitches. When I saw the men coming towards me with weapons, I put the intercom receiver on my ear and started talking. I asked for more jail staff. The men started shouting at me and asked how many persons were coming. I told them nearly five to seven cops. After that, they quickly got into their SUVs. Before leaving, they abused me and the superintendent, and threatened to kill him, no matter where he hid,” said Singh.
 
 Despite several attempts, Jai Kishan Chillar could not be contacted.   called the attack an act of cowardice. “Our cops are capable but it was early in the morning and the warder’s message did not reach us. These criminals will never be able to do anything. It was only a show-off after we took strict action against prisoners who use mobile phones and other objectionable items on the jail premises. I have alerted police and jail staff. If they try to repeat this, they will not be able to escape again,” he told TOI.
 
 Based on the complaint of Singh, an FIR has been registered at the   police station under sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act. “We have registered the case and police teams, along with our crime unit, are on job. The accused will be arrested soon,” said DCP Kuhar.
 
 
