BENGALURU:   from Shantinagar   and his associates allegedly brutally assaulted a 24-year-old son of an industrialist in an upscale restaurant in central Bengaluru, late Saturday night, landed at the hospital where he was admitted, and threatened him with dire consequences.

 Mohammed Nalapad  , 24, a Bengaluru City Youth   general secretary, is on the run after Cubbon Park police booked him and an unspecified number of his associates for assaulting Vidvat L at Farzi Café, located on the second level of UB City. Vidvat is a management graduate and resident of RMV II Stage, near Dollars Colony, north Bengaluru.
  
  
 The incident has threatened to snowball into a major controversy in the run-up to the assembly elections, with the BJP and AAP staging protests against the incident.
 
 Historian Ramachandra Guha led a barrage of tweets expressing revulsion over the incident, prompting CM Siddaramaiah to reply in an hour: “Offenders should be punished to the full extent of law regardless of who they are. No less, no more.”
 
 Soon, the KPCC expelled the lawmaker’s son for six years. Two special teams formed by city police commissioner T Suneel Kumar nabbed four suspects involved in the attack, but main accused Md Haris remained elusive till late Sunday night. He is suspected to be holed up in a hotel in Wilson Garden, central Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 
 Police top brass issued a carte blanche to Cubbon Park police to arrest Md Haris by 8pm. Within minutes of the deadline passing, Cubbon Park police inspector Vijay Hadagali was suspended. The probe was handed over to the Central Crime Branch later in the night. Jurisdictional ACP M Manjunathwas transferredto the police commissioner’s office.
 
 Vidvat is under treatment at the Mallya Hospital ICU. The patient is “conscious and stable”, a hospital spokesperson said, adding: “He has a swollen face, and broken nasal bone. We are evaluating whether he needs a surgery, and will be able to confirm it on Monday.”
 
 Additional commissioner of police (west) B K Singh said police had detained four involved in the incident, and efforts are on to nab others, including Nalapad. Police identified those in the net as Balakrishna, Manjunath, Abhishek and Arun Babu, close associates of Md Haris. “We have clues about the whereabouts of two more suspects, Shashi and Nasi, and will nab them soon,” a police officer said.
 
 Police said Vidvat was not in a position to file a complaint as he was grievously injured; so his friend Praveen Venkatachalaiah filed the complaint. “We registered a case against the group which attacked Vidvat. We have named Mohammed Nalapad Haris as accused No. 1in the case,”they added.
 
 Praveen’s complaint says he was with Vidvat at Farzi Café when a verbal altercation broke outbetween MdHaris and Vidvat around 10pm on Saturday, following which 10-15 supporters of the lawmaker’s son hit Vidvat in the face, stomach and chest. They hit him with glass bottles and rained punches on him. Vidvat was rushed to Mallya Hospital and the gang followed them to hospital, and threatened him without considering his health condition.
 
 Police said Md Haris and his friends were at Farzi Café before Vidvat, Praveen and another friend arrived. Vidvat and hisfriendswere sitting at a table near Md Haris’ table. A waiter came to Vidvat’s table to take their order first, and this was objected to by Haris and his friends, who said they had come first.
 
 Vidvat and his friends glared at the boisterous crowd of Md Haris’ supporters, and the latter took objection to it and began heckling the former. One of Md Haris’ friends noticed that Vidvat had stretched his right leg into the aisle and asked him to sit properly.
 
 Vidvat, who is recovering from a fractured leg, took offence. Heated arguments ensued and Md Haris and his friends pounced on Vidvat and assaulted them again in the parking lot, the complainant said.
 
 Praveen managed to take his friend to nearby Mallya Hospital.
 
 Satvik L, elder brother of Vidvat, said: “Md Haris and his friends came to the hospital as soon as my brother reached there and threatened us with dire consequences. They tore up my shirt before leaving the hospital,” he said.
 
