LUDHIANA: The police have booked the managing director of Hotel A,  , for allegedly raping a 25-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage. The woman also alleged that the accused lured her to make her a partner in a Punjabi film production house when she had gone to his hostel for a job. The woman alleged the accused later refused to marry her and thrashed her with the help of his wife and son. The accused also pointed a gun at her. However, she managed to escape.

 Following investigation, Division No.5 police have booked the MD, Ajit Singh Grewal, for raping the woman; and his wife Rani and son Javed   for thrashing the woman on Friday. In her complaint to the police, the woman said after completing her MBA, she went to Hotel A for a job in February 2016, and met Ajit Singh Grewal. Ajit told her she would not earn much in the job, but he was going to start a Punjabi film production company. He asked her to do a course in film production, and promised he would make her a partner in the production company.
 
 Grewal sponsored her admission in Jaspal Bhatti’s film institute Mad Arts in SAS Nagar. In between, he used to visit her paying guest accommodation. Meanwhile, the woman complained about the atmosphere of the academy, and quit the course. She added that Grewal then took her to Delhi to get a production house registered in June 2016. They stayed in a hotel, where he proposed to her, and told her he would divorce his wife. Then, he pricked his thumb with a pin, applied his blood on her forehead as vermillion, and established physical relations with her. She also alleged that he took her to several places and raped her. He would also introduce her as his wife to friends.
 
 Later on March 7, he — along with his wife and son — thrashed her near Bhai Bala Chowk. When she was trying to escape from there, he flashed a gun and pointed it at her. Before they could do anything, a police vehicle came and the accused fled from the spot.
 
 Inspector  , SHO at Division No.5 police station, said a case was registered following investigation under sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (illegal restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. No arrest has been made so far.
 
 
