PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family felt the pinch of his absence while welcoming visitors at their residence on New Year on Monday.

 The gates of Lalu’s wife Rabri Devi’s residence remained open for the visitors as she, along with sons   and Tej   welcomed people, who had come to extend their New Year greetings.
 
 While the number of RJD supporters was comparatively less, Rabri was also in a sombre mood. “The absence of Lalu ji is being felt by our family as well as people across the state. People are not happy and eagerly waiting for him to come out of the jail,” Rabri told reporters.
 
 On being asked about quantum of punishment for Lalu to be pronounced by the special CBI Court in the Deoghar treasury case of fodder scam on Wednesday, Rabri said: “We have full faith in the court and we will respect whatever order it gives.”
 
 Lalu’s younger son and leader of opposition in Bihar legislative assembly, Tejashwi, said they would knock the doors of higher judiciary, if needed. “We are waiting for the CBI court to pronounce the sentence for Lalu ji … People of Bihar are agitated because they feel betrayed as the one whom they voted for is in jail and those who were not voted against are running the government. We did not surrender before the extreme communal forces and that is the reason we are being targeted. But we will continue fighting them even at the cost of such small sacrifices,”   said.
 
 Lalu extended his New Year greetings through his Twitter account, which is being handled by his associates. “New Year greetings to all. The dream of global brotherhood may realize this year. Poverty, helplessness and joblessness may eradicate. Social justice and communal harmony may establish. I wish for prosperity of you all in the New Year with these wishes,” Lalu’s tweet read.
 
 Sources said RJD leaders Ejya Yadav, Girinath Singh and Sanjay Yadav met Lalu at   at Hotwar in Ranchi.
 
 Meanwhile, the RJD is also gearing up for a meeting of senior party functionaries at Patna on January 6. “Deliberations will be held on the strategy to be adopted by the party in the near future. Not Only Lalu ji but people of the entire state have been betrayed,” Rabri said.
 
 RJD MLAs, MPs, former MLAs and MPs, party presidents of different units and other senior functionaries are likely to attend the meeting. 
 
 
