Bengaluru resident Rio grew up considering a computer his best friend. Last year, he realised that his dependence on   was making him depressed and anxious, and affecting his relationships.

 
 “I had become so insular living my life online that I had lost the ability to connect with people,” Rio says. This January, he decided to reset his relationship with technology and checked into a 12-day digital detox programme at Healing Hideaway, a retreat run by therapist and life coach Bindiya Murgai at Ketti Valley in the Nilgiris. “It was excruciating to be deprived of technology, but slowly, it started to get easier,” says the 24-year-old. “I am still learning how to create meaningful human relationships.”
 
 A growing number of people are opting for programmes and holidays that force them to take a break from their devices and balance their use of gadgets. The detoxes aren’t limited to wellness resorts, and can range from counselling-based retreats such as Murgai’s, to educational programmes for kids and short gadget-free getaways.
 
 The customised detoxes at Healing Hideaway can extend from a weekend to 15 days, but the focus is on enabling people to let go of their devices, and regain control over their digital life. “We take stock of patterns of digital dependence, and figure out what can be done to make them more mindful,” Murgai says. Participants are required to surrender their devices, undertake counselling sessions, learn mindfulness exercises to control the urge to reach for a gadget, do meditation and go for nature walks. A key aspect of the detox is learning how to maintain digital boundaries in one’s life by creating no device zones.
 
  
  
 
 While technology addiction can cause anxiety and affect relationships, Murgai points out that many don’t see it as the source of their problems. “Technology is a socially nurtured addiction,” says Murgai, who is often approached by corporate professionals in the age group of 32 to 45 years, as well as parents of teenagers and young adults.
 
 Nisha Manchanda, her husband and two daughters did the programme to wean the teens off their phones. She says it led to better communication within the family and enabled her daughters to focus on their studies, singing and golf. “We started to learn how to become a tech-wise family and rebuild our relationships without distractions,” Manchanda says. “This entailed new boundaries like leaving phones outside at dinner time, and no phones or laptops from 9pm till 9am.”
 
 Bengaluru-based Ishwarya Kumar’s company   runs a digital detox programme for children. Spread over five days, the 40-hour detox introduces children to theatre, photography, baking, gardening, astronomy and writing. It is followed by regular meetups and online outreach, where mentors suggest activities for parents to help children “think beyond gadgets”.
 
 Chandni Aggarwal, who runs the startup Transforming Travels, started organising short digital detox retreats after her own experience with phone addiction. The retreat takes participants to a village homestay in Uttarakhand to try organic farming, trekking, beekeeping and cooking. They have to deposit their phones for the first 24 hours. Instead of everyone taking photos and Instagramming, only one DSLR camera is allowed for the entire group. “It takes people close to nature, helps them unwind, stay away from notifications and introspect, so that they can take back the idea of unplugging,” says Aggarwal.
 
 
 It helped engineer and food blogger Shreya Srivastava reduce her smartphone usage. “As a blogger, I frequently click photos and use Instagram, but during those two days, I realised I could survive without a phone,” she says. “It is better to go off the grid for a while because your peace of mind is important too.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
