NAGPUR: City   prodigy   is all set to script history in Romania on Monday.

 
 Having completed all the three requisite norms of becoming Nagpur's second and Maharashtra’s youngest   (IM) in April, the 12-year-old chess master garnered the required rating points in Romania on Sunday. The confirmation will come after the two rounds that remains to be played after which he will be awarded the certificate.   is the only other IM from the city. He attained the title in 1999.
 
 To become an IM, a player is required to clear three norms and maintain an international rating of 2400 Elo points. Having completed his third and final norm during the Sharjah Masters International Chess Championship in April, Raunak — with an Elo rating of 2378 — was 22 points away from becoming an IM.
 
 Bharat and Heena Sadhwani, the parents of Raunak who is a Centre Point School, Katol Road, student, decided to send him for international tournament during the summer vacations aiming to gain the requisite Elo points. Raunak's journey started with the nine-round 7 Open International LLucmajor in Spain from May 13-20 and it was followed by a four-day Felix Cup in Romania between May 25 and 28.
 
 Playing without fear, Raunak surprised a couple of Grand Masters and higher-rated players in Spain to collect 13.2 rating points. By the fifth round in Romania, the city youngster had touched the required 2400 Elo mark to stake his claim of becoming an IM.
 
 In Romania, Raunak is still unbeaten and on his way he has played out a draw with Serbian GM Drazic Sinisa and higher-rated Omelja Artem from Ukraine to garner the remaining 8.8 rating points.
 
 While Raunak is waiting for the official certificate, Deshmukh was elated with the achievement of this young prodigy. "He is one of the best Indian talent. For his age, Raunak is a gifted player who has a good sense of judgment. He is fast in his calculations and anticipates moves well. I hope he will become Grand Master next year as his parents are giving him all the necessary exposure needed,” said Deshmukh.
 
