Venkatachalam, a 67-year-old loom owner from Perundurai, had been looking to start a new venture. After going through several ideas, he decided on a packaged masala and spice powder business. He is now attending a training programme in food processing at the Post-harvest Technology Centre of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) to know the technicalities involved in the business.

 "I had been doing textile business since the 1970s and now my son has taken up the venture. I was looking to start a new business, when I came to know that food items such as masala powders and pickles had a big market. So, I came to the training programme offered by TNAU to know the intricacies involved in the business," said Venkatachalam.
 
 Like him, engineers and professionals in other fields too are taking up the business, which they say has a perennial market. They say home-made products such as spice powders and pickles, if marketed properly, can find a dedicated clientele.
 
 This is what inspired D Sudar Kodi, 40, a sales manager at a private firm in the city, to think seriously about taking up the business. She says she has been contemplating quitting her job and starting a food products venture. "I always had an idea to start this business, as the products had a good demand. I was at first sceptical about giving up a salaried job for a start-up. However, I made up my mind and started collecting data on how to make food products professionally," says Sudar Kodi who also had come to attend the training programme at TNAU. "When I bought ready-made masala powders, I would think it would be nice if they were home-made. So now I have decided to cater to the needs of people who think on those lines," she adds.
 
 There are people who had left salaried jobs to start food product ventures and found success. Vincent Charles, 49, from Dindigul is one. An engineer by profession, he had left his job to start a pharmacy. But it did not provide him much scope for growth. "So, decided on a food product start-up. It took me six months to arrive at the right blend and taste by trial and error. Gradually, it picked up and now I am supplying products to 10 departmental stores in Dindigul. I have also planned to open a venture in Trichy," says Charles.
 
 The ‘home-made’ factor is the key that makes such ventures, says Charles. "At first, departmental stores were reluctant to take products from small players like me against big brands. But when I started highlighting the fact that my products were home-made, shops started taking them and a soon a customer base also formed for the products," Charles says.
 
 Experts say the scope for food product business was huge and so was the competition. "Small players who come into the business can sustain for a while by catering to their friends and family, but when they want to do it on a large scale, there are several challenges," said Vijay Prasad, director of Sree Annapoorna Foods. He says there was always a trend of people from various fields getting into food ventures because of its scope. "But small players must know where to position their product to sustain in the market," he adds.
 
 
