MUMBAI: Axis   on Thursday reported a record loss of Rs 2,189 crore for the quarter ended March 2018 on the back of higher provisions for bad loans in the power sector. The bank had reported a net profit of Rs 1,225 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. 

 This is the highest   by a private lender and the first for   since its listing in 1998. 
 
 The results mark the culmination of a troubled year for the bank and come a few weeks after its CEO,  , announced that she will step down in December 2018 — two and half years ahead of her board-appointed term.
 
  
  
 
 Although the quarterly loss is the highest for a private bank, public sector banks have reported larger losses. Also, many banks are expected to be in the red in the fourth quarter of FY18 because of new bad   recognition norms announced by the RBI, which force lenders to classify a borrower as a defaulter if they miss the final deadline by even a day.
 
 “The financial results this quarter are a reflection of the bank’s desire to accelerate non-performing asset recognition, and get past the asset quality issues as soon as possible. During the quarter, we have taken a very conservative view of the recent regulatory changes and have executed all the necessary   recognitions,” said Sharma.
 
 According to   senior research analyst Asutosh Kumar Mishra, the bank has seen loans worth Rs 16,540 crore slipping into NPAs. “After the slippages during the quarter, the bank still has around Rs 9,100 crore (1.8% of loan book) of standard non-retail stressed accounts, which along with reported gross NPA ratio of 6.8% takes its total stressed assets pool to 8.7% of loan book,” Mishra said. He added that this would keep credit cost at an elevated level in FY19. 
 
 Speaking for the first time after announcing her decision to step down in December 2018, Sharma said that for the last nine years, Axis Bank has continued to build on its strength in deposit mobilisation and grown market share in deposits from 2.9% in FY09 to 3.7% as of December end. 
 
 She added that the bank has also changed the composition of its loan book from largely project finance and corporate loans to a more diversified one. “We increased the share of retail loans in our loan book from 20% then to 46% today,” she said.
 
 Announcing the results, chief financial officer Jairam Sridharan said that following the NPA recognition during the quarter, the BB-rated portion of the bank’s loan book (sub-investment grade) has shrunk to 1.8% (Rs 8,500 crore) from 7.3% earlier. 
 
 He said that the bank’s capital adequacy ratio continued to be healthy at 16.57% — much above the regulatory requirement, which gives it headroom to grow.
 
 
