The mixed reviews and sharply divided reactions of the audience notwithstanding, writer-turned-director   is “immensely satisfied” with the way Naa Peru Surya — Na Illu India has turned out. The Allu Arjun-starrer has had a good run at the box-office, running to packed theatres in the opening weekend. “People often say, once the weekend is over, the buzz dies down. The litmus test for the film began from Monday and we are thrilled with the response so far, as Naa Peru Surya has continued its good run at the box-office,” exclaims a delighted Vamsi. 

 What sets Naa Peru Surya apart is its unique script that is different from the usual Tollywood potboilers based on the Army, reckons the filmmaker. “This isn’t one of those run-of-the-mill stories that thrive on patriotic fervour. Toning down the rhetoric, we have dealt with the psyche of a soldier. It’s certainly feels satisfying to begin my career as a director with a film like this,” shares Vamsi, who had written films like Kick, Temper and Touch  , to name a few.
 
  plays the titular role of Surya, a hot-headed soldier with serious anger issues. A run away child whose life’s ambition is to serve at the border, it is a character that is at war with himself. “In many ways, Surya is in a battle with himself and struggles to channelise his anger in a productive manner. Surya’s strained relationship with his father is an emotional element in the script, that will resonate with the audience,” he points out. 
 
 Apparently, Allu Arjun was “most delighted” to do the film. “He told me after the film released that he was proud to be a part of a film like this. When an actor who has been doing commercial cinema sees a new character, he will jump at the opportunity. At a time when Allu Arjun was bored of doing routine films and was looking for a genuine character, I presented him with this script and he loved it. His hunger to experiment reflects in his performance in the film,” says Vamsi.
 
 Incidentally, Vamsi earned the wrath of Jr NTR fans, after reports emerged that he was supposed to make the film with NTR initially, but opted for Allu Arjun later. Clearing the air, the director clarifies, “NTR and I did talk about doing a film together, but after a round of discussions we couldn’t come to an agreement and hence, the film was put on the backburner. However, that was a different film. I couldn’t imagine anyone other than Allu Arjun doing Naa Peru Surya. The look and personality he brought to this character is unparalleled.”
 
 
