NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   said on Tuesday the Delhi government will move   this week to seek a halt to the   drive as interim relief. He urged the Centre to either bring an ordinance or amend Master Plan 2021 for stopping the sealings. On the issue of the 351 roads that are awaiting notification as commercial and mixed land use streets, Kejriwal said if the corporations submit the survey report for these roads on Wednesday, the government will seek SC’s permission to notify them this week. He, however, pointed out that no sealings were happening on these roads.

 Kejriwal announced this at a press conference soon after the confrontation between AAP and BJP over the issue at the CM’s residence. “I am told that no prior notice is being given for the sealings. We have been demanding amendments to the master plan or an ordinance. Why is the Centre not doing this fast,” he said. Kejriwal observed that the situation in which the traders are caught now could have been avoided had the “corporations and the Centre decided in time.”
 
 Talking about the plight of traders, he said: “The small traders are the worst affected. In the past one year, this is the third big trouble to hit them. First it was demonetisation, then GST. And when they are yet to recover and settle down, sealings have started. There is panic all over the city,” he said.
 
 The CM recalled he had written to the LG on January 25 listing out the measures that can stop sealing. He said in his letter, he had sought a hike in the FAR for local shopping centres from 180 to 300 and lowering of the conversion charges for them to that of notified commercial roads. He had also demanded that the rates of FAR for basement and conversion charges should be notified at par with the upper floors immediately. Also, the penalty on delayed payments of conversion charges should be waived. Kejriwal had also urged the LG to either get the master plan amended or request the Centre for an ordinance to stop the sealing drive.
 
 He pointed that the three corporations have to submit a survey report on the 350 stretches to Delhi government. “All three corporation commissioners were called yesterday by the urban development minister,  , but they asked for time till Wednesday to submit the report,” he added.
 
 
