Trichy: If things go to plan, passengers will soon be able to fly from Trichy to Singapore on Jetstar as the airline is mulling a service between the two destinations, taking into account Trichy international airport’s potential for success.

 Jetstar officials flying in to Trichy on Friday discussed the plan with stakeholders and carried out a study on Trichy market’s potential for Singapore and beyond. Airport sources said that they have a plan to start their service between the sectors in winter schedule.
 
 Sreekumar, regional executive director of Airports Authority of India, K Gunasekaran, airport director and Vasudevan, president Trichy Travel Federation, attended the meeting organised by Trichy Travel Federation. The section included a powerpoint presentation by   on present facilities available at the airport and a video on the new airport terminal project.
 
 The presentation touched on various industries, educational centres and health care which could offer different segments of passengers like leisure business and medical tourism. With the city enjoying an ethnic connection with Singapore, the airport has created a favourable history in flights services and never appeared short of passengers. 
 
 “Officials from Jetstar had various questions on market potential to agents and other stakeholders. They were happy with all the information. In order to finalise their operations, their technical team would make a visit soon,” said SA Mubashir, joint secretary of Trichy Travel Federation.
 
 Gunasekaran explained that the meeting with the authorities from Jetstar from Singapore was productive. They appeared satisfied with the potential of Trichy airport, he said.
 
 “They would submit their report based on the meeting convened on February 2. As they expressed satisfaction after analysing our potential and talk with stakeholders, it is likely that they would possibly commence their operation between Trichy and Singapore from October,” he said.
 
 Delegations from Indigo Air were scheduled to hold a meeting with the AAI authorities in Trichy to discuss the possible commencement of domestic service to Chennai from Trichy, the airport director stated. Scoot Air and Air India Express operators have been operating 14 and 7 services a week in this sector.
 
 
