In the latest episode of Pagal Nilavu,   tells   that the two have to spend life together and that he should take his decisions accordingly.

  and her brother leave for some work and the former asks   to be with  . 
 
 Tamizh asks Arjun why is he upset and she makes a plan to go out with Arjun but the he tries to avoid her. 
 
 Tamizh compels Arjun to take her out but he advises her to just concentrate on studies and not get diverted by other things. Tamizh tells him that she just wants to lead a happy life, that too with a good looking guy like Arjun.
 
 Tamizh requests him to put mehendi for her hand, as he did before. As Arjun puts mehendi, Tamizh gets happy.
 
 Arjun gets a call and he escapes from Tamizh. But to his surprise, it is   on the other side. Dileep tells him that in order to separate   and Arjun, Sneha was brought to Delhi. 
 
 Dileep warns Arjun to never contact Sneha or else he will have face dire consequences. Arjun hits back and says, if he wants, he will visit Delhi and neither   nor Dileep can stop him.
 
 Dileep tells that he has always dreamt of marrying Sneha and if Arjun tries to ruin it, he will murder Sneha. Dileep also adds, he will surely marry Sneha and he will message his wedding pictures to Arjun and disconnects the call.
 
 To Arjun’s surprise, Tamizh is hearing all this and asks Arjun about the person on the call. Tamizh tells Arjun that, Malar is very angry with Sneha and Arjun should stop speaking with Sneha.
 
 While   and   are discussing something, Azhagar says that apart from the issue of Karthik trying to marry Revathy, he does not have any other problem with him. 
 
 Azhagar also says, in any situation Revathy should not know that, Karthik is an orphan and they have neglected him because of this. 
 
 Azhagar asks Revathy to start avoiding Karthik and get close with Jeeva. Revathy asks her parents if they love each other then what is wrong if she falls in love.
 
 Azhagar reiterates that Revathy gets married to Jeeva. If not, Andal and Azhagar would commit suicide. When Sakthivel, Andal and Azhagar are having dinner together, Karthik’s mother Revathy calls Karthik to have dinner with them.
 
