HYDERABAD: With opposition parties raising a hue and cry on not being allowed to hold protests in the city, chief minister   on Wednesday said the government would deal with an iron hand any protests intended to disturb peace and also affect the image of the state.

 “Nirdhakshinyamga anachi vestham (We will suppress them ruthlessly),” the CM thundered in the house, making the stand of the government clear. “Do you think we will allow people on to Tank Bund to create a law and order situation,” he said without mentioning the ‘Million March’ commemoration rally called by   recently. Political parties, including BJP and TDP, raised the issue of government not allowing protests in the city, including near the   where dharnas used to be held. “We have said public meetings can be organised at Saroornagar. That should be enough,” he said.
 
 The CM also defended the arrest of MRPS leader  . “At a time when the government was hosting a prestigious event like the World Telugu conference, he wanted to create a law and order situation at the behest of the Congress. And, we had to arrest him,” he said.
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao said that SC categorisation cannot be achieved by  . “The demand of the Madiga community for SC categorisation is justified but Krishna Madiga is not the sole champion to take up the cause. They should stop following him,” he said and added that he himself would come up with a plan of action. “Trust me, I will make it happen and I will come up with an action plan soon,” he said.
 
 When BJP members recalled his promise of celebrating September 17 as Telangana Liberation Day officially, the CM shot back: “The government will not celebrate the day. You (BJP) want to create division on religious lines.” He said Independence Day which is celebrated all over the country is enough.
 
 “As a matter of fact, we should be celebrating June 2 (Telangana State Formation Day) instead of the so-called liberation day,” he said. “In any case, we are celebrating June 2 every year on a big scale,” he said.
 
