HUBBALLI: Denied ticket, several aspirants in the   and   from the undivided Dharwad district are now likely to raise rebellion. 

 Former BJP MLA Seema Masuti, a strong contender in Dharwad (Rural), was the first to express her displeasure after she was denied a ticket. Seema said she will contest as an Independent. The BJP has pitted Amrut Desai and   of the Congress. The Congress also faces the same scenario with Deepak Chinchore and S R More planning to contest against Vinay.
 
 In Navalgund, rift erupted in the Congress ranks after the party announced   as its candidate, leaving ZP vice-president   miffed. Karigar joined the Congress after he was reportedly assured of a party ticket in Navalgund. He was also instrumental in Mallamma, wife of slain ZP president Yogeesgouda Goudar, joining the Congress. Before joining the Congress, Mallamma had accused Vinay of putting pressure on her to strike a compromise with accused in her husband's murder case.
 
 Karigar has now decided to become the rebel candidate in the constituency.
 
 In Haveri district, the BJP is facing rebellion from MLC Somanna Bevinmarad in Shiggavi constituency where the party has given ticket to sitting MLA Basavaraj Bommai. Dissidents have raised their heads in the Congress too with Chandrappa Jalgar and Rukmini Sahukar turning rebel in Hangal and Ranebennur, respectively.
 
 The supporters of Manohar Tahsildar and Jalgar protested after Srinivas Mane was given the ticket in Hangal. In Ranebennur, Rukmini, secretary of the state Congress women's wing, tendered her resignation from the party's primary membership and decided to contest as an Independent against K B Koliwad. Congress is also facing rebellion in Byadagi.
 
 The BJP is likely to face rebel candidate in Gadag constituency as Shrishailappa Bidarur was denied ticket. The party selected Anil Menasinkai in the constituency.
 
 Senior Congress and BJP leaders, who did not wish to be named, said that rebel candidates will surely split votes of their party, making it tough for official candidates. The party high command should intervene to diffuse this dissidence by promising appropriate positions to rebel candidates if the party comes to power. The presence of rebel candidate will only benefit candidates from other parties, they said.
 
 In Navalgund, former minister K N Gaddi resigned from the party membership of Congress on Monday to protest denial of ticket to him. "I was assured by the CM that I would be given a ticket, but he did not keep his words. Though I lost the past three elections, I would have won on the grounds of sympathy this time," he told reporters. Annigeri Congress block president Prakash Angadi has also decided to contest as a rebel candidate in Navalgund.
 
 
