PUNE: Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin   on Saturday directed Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) to acquire at least 80% land for the proposed 128-km   before the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) provides the necessary sanctions.

 
  
 
 Gadkari on Saturday reviewed the Ring Road project and other highways in the region in the presence of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. At the meeting, Gadkari said that unless 50% of land is acquired, tender cannot be floated and only after 80 % of land has been acquired can sanctions be given for the project.
 
 “It is the local authority’s responsibility to acquire land for the project. Unless 80% of land is in possession, we cannot give the necessary sanctions,’’Gadkari stated in the meeting.
 
 The minister said that he has spoken with guardian minister Girish Bapat and city MP Anil Shirole and have requested them to put in all efforts to complete the acquisition wthin three months. The project can be completed within two years after commencement of civil work, he said. The project cost is estimated to be around Rs 23,000 crore. The cost of land acquisition will be around Rs 13,000 crore and construction cost will be around Rs 10,000 crore.
 
 The state government had decided to take up Ring Road project, which connects 6 national highways passing through the metropolitan region of Pune. These highways are Mumbai-Pune (NH-48), Pune-Nashik (NH-60), Pune-Ahmednagar (NH-753F), Pune-Solapur (NH-65), Pune-Saswad-Palkhi Marg (NH-965) and Pune-Bangalore (NH-48).
 
 PMRDA had proposed to develop the Ring Road, having a length of 128 km, under the Bharatmala project. The part proposal for segment one for a length of 32.29 km has been submitted to NHAI for which sanctions are awaited.
 
 Gadkari has said that land should be acquired before sanctions are given. PMRDA CEO Kiran Gitte said that acquisition of land would be crucial for faster execution of city’s Ring Road project and innovative models have to be drawn by the local authority to acquire land, he said.
 
 Gadkari said that the Chandani Chowk flyover project had not moved ahead as his department was still to receive the land. He directed the Pune Municipal Commissioner Saurabh Rao to come up with a proposal for land acquisition and compensation for those affected at the earliest.
 
 “I had inaugurated the project in August last year and now it is May. It is embarrassing for me that the project has not moved forward,’’ he said.
 
 Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said that all instructions will be given to the local authorities to speed up land acquisition and necessary meetings and committees will be formed to speed up the pending issues regarding the highways.
 
 
