MUMBAI:   was getting into the elevator of her building in  's Govind Nagar when a man ran up behind her, snatched her gold chain and fled. The   footage of the incident quickly went viral on WhatsApp, prompting cops to track down Gada and convince her to press charges last week. Ten days later, the man who snatched Gada's chain as well as his associate who was waiting for him on a bike were nabbed late on Thursday. The school-dropout duo was released from prison earlier this year. 

 Riyaz Alam Shaikh (33) and Akash Naik (24) are career criminals. "After nabbing them, we came across CCTV footage of two other robberies at jewellery shops involving the duo. It was necessary to hunt them down soon, as the CCTV grabs could cause concern among citizens," said deputy police commissioner Vinay Rathod. 
 
 After robbing Gada on March 19, the duo made minimal use of phones to avoid capture. Cops hunted for them in Govandi, Mankhurd and   on the basis of specific information. Naik was eventually nabbed in Vasai around 11.30pm on Thursday. After sustained interrogation, he provided the whereabouts of Shaikh. Another team picked up Shaikh from Ghatkopar within hours. 
 
 Their modus operandi was to surveil a target and strike when the person was most vulnerable. In Gada's case, they waited till the watchman left his position. "We are fortunate my mother did not sustain any injuries," Gada's son, Chandresh, told TOI. He added that the family had not lodged a complaint on their own accord as they had not expected to get the chain back. 
 
 On November 21, 2017 and February 8 this year, Shaikh and Naik struck at jewellery shops. The footage from the shop shows one of them asking an employee to show him various chains and trying them on. Once he gains the employee's confidence and that person relaxes, he makes a dash for the door with the chains. The other robber is waiting on a bike outside and they escape. 
 
 "A red-coloured Hero Hunk used in Gada's robbery was recovered from the duo. A Honda Unicorn stolen from Nala Sopara and a third bike stolen from Aarey have also been found. The fuel tanks of the stolen bikes were filled to the maximum capacity so the bikes wouldn't break down midway. There are seven to eight criminal cases registered against each of them and they have also been convicted in some of these cases," said investigating officer Ghanshyam Nair.
 
