MANGALURU: The rushed and unplanned introduction of   4 software in   (RTOs) is having a direct bearing on vehicle dealers, RTO staff and customers alike.

 With VAHAN 4, the government intends to make the RTO paperless and the process of registering vehicles, transfer of ownership and e-payment among other services, more people-friendly. The government has said the upgraded RTOs in Mangaluru, Puttur and Bantwal will open up to the public on Monday.
 
 However, if sources in the RTO are anything to go by, things will only get worse as the software is not yet programmed to deliver what is expected out of it. A source in the RTO said though VAHAN 4 was introduced in   near Bengaluru three months ago, the staff is still undertaking services manually.
 
 On the other hand, the hurried decision of the government has dented their business by at least 30%.
 
 “The government has said VAHAN 4 will start in full-swing from Monday, but, we are sure the software will not support all online services, at least for a few weeks. Monday onwards, there will be huge queue in the RTO office for all works. Our office cannot accommodate so many people,” an official in the RTO said on condition of anonymity. 
 
 “Though the intention is good, it is a hurried decision. The staff isn’t trained. Sufficient notice period wasn’t served to vehicle dealers – they should have got at least a month’s time. It will turn out to be a flawed decision at least for now,” the official added.
 
 Another insider said several people have already made e-payments for a variety of services, but haven’t gotten their vehicles registered. “This is going to be a huge headache once VAHAN 4 is introduced,” a highly placed source, said.
 
 Prasadraj Kanchan, managing director, Kanchana Automobiles Private Limited, said the government decision has resulted in a dip of at least 30% in sales.
 
 “It is mandatory to begin the registration process of a vehicle prior to handing it over to the customer. Since the RTO is not functioning since Monday, our stocks have piled up. We are moving towards the end of the month, and more importantly, it is the end of the financial year. We are having a hard time in meeting deadlines,” he said.
 
 According to Kanchan, most of the vehicles get registered during the last 10 days of a month. “The government should have thought on these lines,” he said, adding that a temporary solution, such as manual registration of vehicles, would have helped.
 
 Vathika Pai, president,  , said a lot of automobile dealers had appealed to the government through the chamber, to consider their plea, however, their plea was turned down.
 
 “The dealers said they received the government circular on Saturday, and the RTO was closed on Monday. They should have got at least 10 days’ time so they could put things in place,” she said.
 
 
