LUDHIANA: Just two days ahead of the MC election, leaders of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and   (BJP) level serious allegations against   leaders, accusing them of misusing power to create fear among their party workers and candidates with the help of police and administration.

 The leaders alleged that their party workers are being detained and arrested by the police just to keep them away from the political campaigning and creating a fear in their minds so that they should step back. Both the parties warned the Congress leaders not to adopt such measures because   will not bear any injustice.
 
 Addressing a joint press conference, district BJP president Ravinder Arora and district SAD president   first raised the issue of violence in ward number 15 between Congress and BJP leaders on Wednesday over the issue of blanket distribution. They said the BJP leader’ office was attacked and when BJP leaders acted in their defense, police detained BJP leaders including industrialist Bobby Jindal instead of taking action against Congress leaders. Arora said they got their leaders released with great difficulty.
 
 He said in ward number 24, a BJP leader was arrested from outside his house because he was campaigning in favour of SAD-BJP and he was released only when the party workers staged a protest outside Jamalpur police station and state president Vijay Sampla called up the police commissioner.
 
 Arora alleged in ward number 44, the Congress candidate has put up illegal hoardings on the entire road, but no action was taken. But officials have removed even small posters out up by SAD-BJP candidates.
 
 Arora even alleged that police had reached the house of his son-in-law to arrest him and cops had no answer when he asked about his crime. He said all this was being done just to create pressure on them and their families.
 
 Dhillon said all this will affect the voters as well because under fear people will not come out to vote and Congress leaders will become successful. He alleged that cops are deputed in civil dress outside the houses of various leaders and candidates of both parties for creating terror among them. Dhillon said Congress is afraid of defeat and that is why it is using such measures.
 
