HYDERABAD : Government doctors launched a state-wide indefinite relay hunger strike on Monday over a host of issues including implementation of career advancement scheme, plan for raising retirement age and increase in cadre strength.

 Six doctors at the state-run Gandhi Hospital sat on the relay hunger strike from Monday morning to evening. About 200 other doctors joined the protest. The hunger strike will continue on Tuesday with a new set of doctors sitting on strike. Protests were also held at the   and   in the city on Monday.
 
 
 “This strike is a continuation of the previous strike in February, which we had called off. We did not want patients coming to our hospitals to suffer due to our strike and hence called off the strike on being assured of action. Even nine months back similar promises were made to us, but has never been fulfilled. Most doctors are overburdened with work, but the government has not yet increased cadre strength,” said Dr  , general secretary, Telangana Government Doctors’ Association (TGGDA), Gandhi Hospital.
 
 Massive delays in promotions, with many instances of no promotions being given for even two decades or an entire career, has left government doctors demotivated.
 
 The state government’s consideration of the proposal of increasing the age of retirement of assistant professors from the current 58 years to 65 years, has also sparked fears that promotions might further get stalled for many years.
 
 Doctors protesting at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) meanwhile reiterated their demand of a new building that has remained unfulfilled despite several instances of a parts of the ceiling falling off. The doctors are also demanding that two government orders GO No. 21 and 22 be done away with, as these were passed to do away 50% reservation in PG courses in government medical hospitals. These GOs are seen as a threat to in-service candidates wanting to pursue PG courses.
 
 The UGC scale of salaries — applicable from January 2016 onwards — which is not being given to doctors by the state government is also a spot of bother. “Apart from all this we are also demanding a risk allowance as doctors face professional hazard of contracting life-threatening infections,” said Dr Pandu Naik, co-chairman Osmania Doctors’ Joint Action Committee and co-chairman TGGDA joint action committee. The doctors met health minister Dr   over the issue of new OGH building on Sunday evening and have been assured of action within one week. Nevertheless, the protest for the remaining issues will continue.
 
