CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief secretary   has directed heads of all government departments to send their action taken reports after reviewing all decisions taken by the previous SAD-BJP government in six months prior to the 2017 assembly elections.

 In a communication addressed on March 28, all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and other administrative secretaries have been directed to positively submit their action taken reports by April 13 for further decision. After the   government came to power last year, it had taken a decision in the first cabinet meeting held on March 18, 2017, to stay implementation of all such decisions till completion of the review process, except in cases where it was not possible to do so because of legal or administrative implications.
 
 The Congress government had remained under attack of the opposition parties for allegedly not only failing to fulfil its election promises but also for stalling many projects started during the rule of the previous government. And, after completion of over one year at the helm of affairs, the state government is yet to complete the review process of all such decisions to take a final call whether they need to be implemented or trashed.
 
 After coming to power, the Congress government in Punjab had halted some of the popular decisions taken by the previous SAD-BJP regime, including Mukh Mantri Tirath Darshan Yatra Scheme and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal’s ambitious water bus project at Harike wetland. The Congress government had also ordered several inquiries into the ongoing projects approved by the previous government by stopping further disbursal of funds till the completion of inquiries.
 
 In the run up to the 2017 state assembly elections, during a special session of the assembly convened on December 19, 2016, a bill was also passed for regularizing 30,000 employees hired via back door (on contract, ad hoc and daily wages), in various government departments after the governor had refused to sign the ordinance on the subject.
 
 The SAD-BJP government had enhanced the monthly honorarium of nearly 42,000 mid-day meal workers from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,700 in its cabinet meeting held on December 19, 2016. In another cabinet meeting earlier on December 5, 2016, a decision was taken to increase financial assistance of World War I and II veterans or their widows from Rs 2,000 to Rs 4,500 per month. Also, the state government had given the concurrence to include   in the list of backward classes, creation of 750 vacancies in various departments and regularization of services of 1,214 sewer men.
 
 
