In the latest episode of  , Prithvi brings Tapsee home and goes to get ointment for her. She is impressed that Prithvi is so worried for her. Prithvi asks her to be careful and not to hurt herself for a purse. 

 
 Tapsee then tells Prithvi that she should not have broken up with him. And confesses her love for him once again, which leaves him in a dilemma. 
 
 Taapsee asks Prithvi if he missed her. He tries to tell her the truth but she fakes being ill. He asks her to take rest. 
 
 Taapsee calls up Karan to inform him that their plan is working. He asks her to be careful and not to let him get engaged. Karan asks Taapsee to take control of things now. 
 
 In  , Disha is seen feeding Abhi's dadi but she refuses to eat. Dasi and others request her to have something in order to stay strong for Abhi. 
 
 Pragya comes over and tells her that she will have to offer sweets to everyone. Pragya tells them that Abhi is innocent and Simonika is alive. Dadi thanks God and asks Disha to get her medicine as well since Abhi will be out of the jail soon. 
 
 Disha looks worried thinking what Purab might have told her. She remembers Purab calling her and telling her that Pragya is hallucinating things. 
 
 On the other hand, it is shown that Simonika is enjoying her drink at a bar. A disturbed Purab is looking for Pragya. He calls her on the phone but Pragya's number is reachable. They call up Sarla to ask for Pragya but she isn't there as well. 
 
 Pragya is seen calling up her informer Shashank to ask him about Simonika. She asks him to keep an eye on Simonika. Pragya spots Simonika sitting in a car but hides herself. 
 
 Back in Kundali Bhagya, Sameer and Srishti are seen arguing over applying medicine. She tricks him into doing it. 
 
 He hugs Srishti and Sarla watches the two together. But before Sarla can quiz her, Sameer says it is not the way she is thinking. Srishti tells the entire truth to Sarla.
 
 Sherlyn comes to Prithvi's home and slaps Taapsee but she slaps her in return. Taapsee and Sherlyn end up fighting and go away from his home. Prithvi runs after Sherlyn while Taapsee goes out. 
 
 Prithvi then explains to Sherlyn that he loves her. She asks him why he cheated on her. 
 
 At the Luthra house, Karan looks for his ball when he sees Preeta and they share a sweet banter. Preeta asks him what he is doing because it is going to impact her life. 
 
 Karan then flirts with Preeta. Taapsee reaches the Luthra house Karan asks Taapsee to come along with him to his bedroom, fearing his plan against Prtithvi could be exposed.
 
 
 In Kumkum Bhagya, Pragya follows Simonika in another car and remembers what Abhi had told her about the night he was caught by the police. Abhi had informed her about being pricked by a needle in the hotel by an unknown person. 
 
 Pragya follows Simonika to a room and catches her red-handed. She tries to slap her but Simonika doesn't recognize her. 
 
 But the lady says she is not Simonika and confronts her. 
 
 At home, Sarla confronts Srishti and she is confused what she should tell her mother. Sarla gives a day to Srishti to think about what is her relationship with Sameer. 
 
