Bhopal: Cops in Rajgarh district of the state seem to be fighting fit. Only 3% of them are suffering from high blood pressure. This statistic came to light after a detailed health check-up of 701 police personnel who are posted in the district.

 Interestingly, Rajgarh also happens to be the only district in the state where each police station is equipped with a gym that ensures that every cop is fit and are doing justice to their jobs.
 
 District police officials have prepared a chart of all police personnel in a bid to monitor health-related issues that are faced by cops. This entire health check-up exercise was conducted in a span of two months where blood glucose, blood pressure, ECG and orthopaedic tests on all the 701 police personnel were carried out.
 
 Rosters were made and dates of medical examinations were fixed as per the chart and participation in the tests was made mandatory for all serving cops.
 
 A total of 903 cops are based in the district, out of which 701 of them underwent the health check-up since the remaining cops were posted outside or were not available due to various other reasons.
 
 “We conducted the tests to identify health issues faced by cops working in the district, so that necessary action and care could be taken to motivate them to take care of their health themselves. Fortunately, lifestyle and stress-related issues are low in our district. We have also opened a basic gym in each of the 20 police stations to ensure that our personnel stay fit and healthy. Local police station in-charges are monitoring the health of the staff and are encouraging them to use the gyms,” Rajgarh SP Shimala Prasad told TOI.
 
 The police department is also building volleyball courts in all police stations so that cops can take part in sports and reduce their stress levels.
 
 “Volleyball courts will be built in each of these police stations within the next fifteen days. The gyms have all the basic equipment along with weighing machines, so that our staff can monitor their weight on a regular basis,” added Prasad.
 
 
