Nagpur: People should not wait for anyone to tell them that they can do something they aspire to for which proper division of goals and staying in the present moment are important, said  , a motivational speaker, on Monday.

 Author of best-seller book ‘Think and win like Dhoni’, Sahare delivered a talk organized by Entrepreneurship Forum of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) at its auditorium. 
 
 She enlightened on how to formulate a winning strategy for business similar to what former India captain MS Dhoni did in the cricketing field and emerged a winner. Sahare listed five steps for a successful and glorious winner-like life that consisted of scaffolding, goals, following the process, leadership and a peaceful walk back home. 
 
 Speaking about scaffolding, she narrated her journey when she started researching on Dhoni’s exploits in cricket. She said, “I struggled to get in touch with the batting hero. When I met him for the first time, I told him about my intentions to write a book on him and asked whether I can do it. His reply was: Of course, you can. Who can stop you? This made me realize I was waiting for him to tell me that I can. Inculcating the spirit of ‘I can do it’ will continue to infuse confidence in those who want to excel in life.”
 
 She spoke on the importance of keeping things simple in life, cashing in on the situations of pressure to rise and ensuring that not getting bogged down by fear. She also categorized different personalities as intuitors, thinkers, sensors and feelers and talked in depth about their personality traits so as to help the audience crack a deal easily after identifying the personality type of the other party.
 
 “What’s the point of all the success if you cannot walk back home peacefully. When you’re peaceful, you see things clearly without any cloud blurring your vision,” she said.
 
 Sahare is a computer engineer from Nagpur who moved to Pune for further studies. Out of passion for cricket and public speaking, she wrote her first book which decoded some strategies of ‘Captain Cool’ Dhoni that took him to unprecedented heights in the cricketing fields. The book was on the national best-selling chart just two weeks after its launch. The book was launched on Dhoni’s birthday on July 7, 2016, and won the award for the best self book by Amazon in 2016.
 
 Currently, Sahare is a motivational speaker, mental coach of Ranchi Cricket Association and part of developing team of Bengal Cricket Association.
 
 Anita Rao, convener of Entrepreneurship Forum, was present.
 
 
