Venky Atluri’s directorial debut ‘Tholi Prema’ starring   and   in lead roles is all set to hit the screens on February 10. The film that features music by SS Thaman grabbed attention not just because of its lead stars, but also because of the title mirroring Pawan Kalyan’s 1998 hit film. The promos of the film have been received well and it has high expectations riding on it. While the trailer is reason enough to watch the film, we give you five reasons why before   movie review is out: 

 
 
 
 Varun Tej last wowed the audience with his performance in Sekhar Kammula’s, Sai Pallavi starrer ‘Fidaa’. While Sai Pallavi’s performance of ‘hybrid pilla’ Bhanumati almost overshadowed him, the actor still held his own in the film, winning hearts. Raashi Khanna on the other hand has been on a roll in  , starring in the recently released ‘Touch Chesi Chudu’ with Ravi Teja. Talking to Hyderabad Times about Tholi Prema, the actor had said, “My role in Tholi Prema is a very performance oriented one. The film will establish me as more than just a glam girl.”
 
 
 SS Thaman, who also seems to be on a roll in Tollywood – what with many huge projects opting for him to compose their music, did a good job with this one. The album of ‘Tholi Prema’ is a surefire winner and one that can be heard on loop. Thaman’s fans had loved the songs Break the Rules, Sunona Sunaina and Vinnaanae Vinnane for their music. But the songs Ninnila, Allasani Vaari and of course the title track, Tholiprema, surely won hearts!
 
 
 
 
 Going by the trailer, one can see that the film will span across three different times in the lead couple’s lives. For Aditya it is love at first sight when he sees the geeky Varsha, but as they grow older, fate tears them apart and brings them together at separate times of their lives. Sumanth’s recent release ‘Malli Raava’ had charted a tale similar to this, touching on the fact of how painful and life-changing heartbreak can be. If ‘Tholi Prema’ manages to get the feeling across as well, what can be more relatable than that? 
 
 
 When one talks of ‘Tholi Prema’, one remembers the scene where Pawan Kalyan first lays eyes on Keerthi Reddy amidst bursting crackers and sparkles. The 1998 film has many such beautiful moments that come to mind when one hears the title. Be it the story or the music, ‘Tholi Prema’ was a game-changer when it released and many still look back on the film with nothing but fondness. So when Varun Tej announced that ‘Tholi Prema’ was the most apt title for his upcoming movie, it is only fair that the filmmakers must’ve taken the chance of naming it that only after they were confident that it would live up to the name. 
 
 
 While   was involved in the writing of ‘Kerintha’ and ‘It’s My Love Story’, ‘Tholi Prema’ marks his debut as a director. With a cast as able as Varun Tej and Raashi Khanna and music by Thaman, it’s only fair to assume that Venky Atluri had his hands full when it came to direction. What with showcasing various stages of the lead characters’ lives and shooting in the moody weather of London, the debut director had an intense romantic drama in hand. Judging by the trailer, the debutant has done a good job at fleshing out the characters and getting their emotions across. However, it remains to be seen how it all plays out on-screen. 
 
 Watch this space for Tholi Prema movie review.
