GURUGRAM:   were by and large peaceful in Gurgaon barring a few stray incidents on  , where police had to resort to a mild lathi-charge to chase away revellers.

 Three residents of Hisar were arrested for allegedly misbehaving with some policemen on duty. 
 
 As MG Road was declared a no-entry zone for vehicles for around nine hours, it led to massive traffic   in areas around Iffco Chowk, Bristol Chowk and Sikanderpur Road.
 
 Outside  , a few young people allegedly attacked some policemen around 2am after being denied entry for not having valid ID cards. When things spun out of control, the police resorted to a mild baton-charge.
 
 In a pub at the mall, police chased away a group of youths with lathis after a young man allegedly misbehaved with a woman, leading to a ruckus. MG Road, the hub of party dens, was largely peaceful till around midnight, when it witnessed a few skirmishes here and there.
 
 Some people claimed that the trainee cops who had been called to man the crowd got “over-excited” and used lathis without any provocation. 
 
 “Yes, some people did try to create nuisance, but the police targeted everybody. The trainee cops were treating it as some hunt game. They used sticks on innocent people as well. Seeing the commotion, we returned from outside Sahara Mall,” said a resident. The huge footfall led to hundreds of people being stranded on MG Road for hours as they scrambled for buses and cars.
 
 “It took me three hours to get a cab. I was stranded outside the mall as the police chased those trying to create ruckus down the road. This is unacceptable. If they make roads vehicle-free, there should be proper arrangements of alternate transport. I had a woman friend along with me and she was anxious to the core until we managed to get a cab,” said a reveller.
 
 Though most of the watering holes shut down at the stipulated time, liquor continued to be sold through the backdoor. “We ensured the celebrations were peaceful in the city. Yes, there were one or two small incidents, but they were handled in the best possible manner. We had a no-tolerant attitude towards hooliganism on roads,” said Anil Yadav, ACP (DLF), Gurgaon.
 
 
