GURUGRAM/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The arrest of a 36-year-old   in  , Kerala, on Friday, who had posed as the South Asia head of a Dubai-based security and logistics firm and cheated corporate executives in Delhi-NCR of more than Rs 82 lakh, has brought a ray of hope to those who had fallen prey to his dubious claims.

 
 TOI had on April 4 reported that a man posing as the South Asia head of a Dubai firm had cheated three Gurugram residents of goods and services worth Rs 30 lakh in total. He also cheated several other residents of Delhi-NCR of a further Rs 52 lakh. On Friday, Valiyathura police of Thiruvananthapuram arrested Dr Shine Sathyapalan alias Dr Sidhik Abdul Rehman on the basis of a complaint filed by one Kozhimalayil Jacob of Mavelikkara. 
 
 Jacob, one of the victims, told cops that Sathyapalan, claiming to be the South Asia HR head of Etihad Airlines, had rented his Maruti Swift Dzire on contract, ostensibly to use it for operations at his ‘office’. When Sathyapalan vanished with the car and Jacob could not contact him, the latter approached the cops on Thursday and filed a complaint. 
 
 Valiyathura cops swung into action and nabbed Sathyapalan. An FIR was registered under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 468 (forgery for purpose of  ) and 465 (punishment for forgery) of the IPC.
 
 He was produced in a local court and sent to police remand. “We have seized several credit/debit cards, bank passbooks and Aadhaar cards procured using fake documents from his possession. Fake letterheads of the Union external affairs ministry were also recovered during his arrest. At Monday’s hearing in court, we will seek five-day custody for him,” said Valiyathura sub-inspector S Bijoy, the investigation officer. 
 
 Police revealed the accused was an MBA graduate and used his academic credentials to swindle people across the country. Delhi and Haryana Police have contacted their counterpart in Thiruvananthapuram to seek Sathyapalan’s custody.
 
 Delhi resident Anisha Motwani, another victim, who had leased out her apartment in Gurugram to the accused, said, “He has made a mockery of all institutions and authorities in India. He is an experienced conman. Not only did he have several fake bank accounts, multiple Aadhaar and credit cards, but he also had fake letterheads of the Union external affairs ministry and embassies. Even after cheating so many people, he was able to roam around freely across the country for so many years.” 
 
 DCP Mandeep Singh Randhawa of Delhi Police said, “We have a case registered at the Patel Nagar police station against the accused. We will seek his custody soon.”
 
 
