Chandigarh: The inter-state crime coordination committee involving officials of four states in its first meeting on Wednesday decided to set up an inter-state crime information secretariat in Gurgaon to curb activities of organized criminals and gangsters and prevent smuggling of illicit weapons and narcotics in the National Capital Region (NCR), especially in the border areas.

 This institutional mechanism will assist police of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi to effectively coordinate, create common database and real-time sharing of information to prevent and detect crime and check criminal activities.
 
 This decision was taken in the meeting which was also addressed by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who said the idea to hold the meeting was conceptualized during his informal meeting with UP CM Yogi Adityanath.
 
 Holding of such kind of quarterly meetings would certainly pay rich dividends to nab the inter-state gangs of criminals and check illegal activities, he added.
 
 The agenda for the meeting was planned by Haryana DGP Baljit Singh Sandhu, in consultation with UP DGP, Rajasthan DGP and Delhi police commissioner. A large number of senior officers from all these states were also present on this occasion.
 
 Later on, in a joint briefing, Haryana ADGP (law and order) Mohammed Akil said all the police officers have shared and deliberated upon various kinds of inter-state crimes and strategies to nab such criminals.
 
 He said it was also decided that regular meetings between Crime Branch, CIA and STF officials as well as border SHOs would also be held to ensure effective crime control and to maintain law and order with mutual coordination. It was also decided that telephone numbers of police officials at all levels would be shared for better coordination and to prevent and detect inter-state crime.
 
 A lot of emphasis was laid on sharing information to check inter-state crime and criminals. This would go a long way in increasing mutual coordination among these states. It was decided that the next quarterly meeting will be held in Noida, Akil added.
 
 
