HYDERABAD: In probably first such move in the country, a special police station will come up in the city to crack down on unauthorised constructions and civic violations. The police station, to be part of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s proposed Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management Cell, will be housed at   in Secunderabad.

 Of 22 lakh houses in the   (GHMC) limits, civic officials estimate about 10% of them could be unauthorised and over 50% have deviations from the sanctioned building plans, making it tough for the officials alone to tackle the menace.
 
 Once the new set-up is in place, first information reports (FIRs) pertaining to illegal constructions could be logged at the special police station. “The Cell will begin work within a month. Since it is an autonomous body, we hope to work without any hassles,” IPS officer  , who will be the first director of the Cell, told TOI.
 
 Town planners claim since 2017, 461 unauthorised constructions and 222 canal encroachments were cleared, underscoring how illegal construction was rampant in GHMC limits.
 
 
 
 
 A GHMC town planner said, “It’s just a tip of the iceberg. Unless strong steps are taken, the city will see more flooding with stormwater drains and water channels being encroached upon with each passing day.”
 
 The   would be a one-stop destination to report all civic grievances. “About 100 police personnel, 20 for each of the five GHMC zone, will be pressed into service and will be part of the police station. Apart from police, representatives from town planning, sanitation and other departments of the GHMC will assist them. The Cell, which would have 600 employees, will monitor works pertaining to GHMC and carry out inspections,” Greater Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan said.
 
 According to a proposal, the officials of the Enforcement Cell would have power to impose penalties on establishments as well as people flouting norms. “Establishments and individuals letting out water on roads, littering streets with debris and garbage will also be penalised by the team,” he added.
 
 Apart from illegal constructions, the Cell would monitor usage of plastic below 50 microns, inspect garbage vehicles, which carry trash from households to transfer stations, and agencies, which dig up roads without permission, and road quality. “All civic grievances can be reported at the station. Citizens need not go to any other place to air their civic apathy,” a top GHMC official said. The disaster management team would also be trained for emergency situations like clearing waterlogging points, uprooted electric poles and trees.
 
