Vijayawada: The Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation ( ) system, introduced by the state board in 2014 with an intention to reduce rote learning and encourage activity-based learning at schools, is an innovative approach to education but is tough to adapt to, given our constraints, feel educators and students alike.

 The CCE system comprises formative assessment (FA) and summative assessment (SA) tests that students will have to give each year. Students of Class VI to Class X will have to give four FA exams in one year. They are also required to conduct science projects for which they will be evaluated. A typical science project would have students finding the rate of evaporation for various liquids such as alcohol, vinegar, or orange juice.
 
 However, there are several roadblocks in adapting to this system. While some city schools face practical problems in implementing it, other schools lack the seriousness to fully integrate it into their teaching process.
 
 According to G Srinivas, physics teacher at Brilliance School in Veterinary Colony, CCE is good for students as long the schools implement it correctly. “The students will be engaged in the subject, and it automatically reduces stress on them. The FA exams are for 50 marks. Ten marks are allotted for project works, and ten marks are for lab activities. Another 10 marks are for written work and 20 marks are for slip tests. A total of 20% of the FA exams will be counted in the final exam,” Srinivas said.
 
 P Manoja, Hindi teacher at MPUP School, Gudavalli, said she was not entirely on board with the new system. “There are many practical problems with the new system. The students have to understand the textbook chapters and should be able to frame questions for themselves. CCE requires the teachers to only be guiders or facilitators, and this will not work with average and below average students,” she said.
 
 The written work requires students to read library books and write summaries on the books. But not all schools have libraries in the city. This is a major problem, say teachers, adding that another problem area is the online updating of student data. Staff rooms are already short of teachers and expecting them to devote a large chunk of their time to updating data would be detrimental, said teachers who opined that a dedicated staffer should be allotted solely for uploading data.
 
 Madhava Rao, principal at Sikhara School, said a lot of data about students has to be entered into the system. “Right from information on parents to the marks of the students scored in the exams, everything has to be there in the portal. Parents are sometimes reluctant to give information, which complicates matters. If there are 1,000 students in a school, information has to be entered a thousand times,” Madhava Rao said, indicating a reluctance among teachers to adapt to the new system.
 
 
