MADURAI: The Madras high court Madurai bench was on Wednesday told that dean-cum-medical officer of the   in Karur, S Revwathy, has been threatened by officials for opposing the government's action to appoint another person as the DME.   has been fighting for her right to get the promotional post of state’s director of medical education (DME).

 Her counsel, S   told the court that the petitioner has been threatened by top officials of the health and family welfare department. They had allegedly threatened her saying, “You moved the court against the government’s action appointing government medical college (Coimbatore) dean A   as the DME, due to which we (the officials) had to drop him from the post of DME. Thus, you (petitioner Revwathy) will not retire peacefully?" Revwathy is going to retire on February 28 this year.
 
 In her contempt plea, she said that when she had already filed the case before the high court bench regarding promotion, the single judge passed an order on September 20 directing the government to appoint her to the post of DME, against which the health secretary and Edwin Joe preferred appeals. After hearing it, the division bench passed a common order on December 12 setting aside the appointment of Joe as DME and directed the secretary to reconsider Revwathy to the post of DME within six weeks. But, the government disobeyed the court order, which amounts to wilful disobedience to the court order, she said. The division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R Tharani which heard the contempt plea recorded the counsel’s submission and told the additional advocate general (AAG)   that the health secretary committed contempt of court by calculating the period relating to court order after the AAG had told it that the period before which the court order should be obeyed is yet to get over.
 
 The bench said, “On seeing the case on hand, it appears that there might be some reason for not appointing her to the promotional post. The government should do some good things to the people, which will bring rain and prosperity to the people. Because, after hearing elaborate arguments from concerned sides the division bench has set aside the government order appointing Edwin Joe as DME and gave direction to the government. Why did you not implement the court order? Why shouldn't we take contempt action against you?” Following it, the AAG said that the government is preparing a panel in order to obey the court order and wanted time to complete the process. Accepting it, the court adjourned the case to Friday.
 
 
