BERHAMPUR: After  , fake   have surfaced in Ganjam's  . Five women construction workers of Karchulli village lodged a police complaint on Sunday, saying they had been issued fake cards by unscrupulous persons in exchange for money. 

 After a preliminary inquiry, the   (DLO) of  , Babulal Patra, said the cards issued to the women were fake. He added that the labour department issued cards online, but the ones issued to the women were manually written up.
 
 "The numbers on the cards are incorrect. Moreover, Buguda block comes under the jurisdiction of the DLO, Berhampur, but these cards were issued by the assistant labour officer (ALO) of Chhatrapur," he said.
 
 On receiving the complaint, police sent the cards to the DLO, Berhampur, for verification. "We shall carry out further inquiries after receiving the report," said the inspector in charge of Buguda police station, Rama Chandra Biswal
 
 Construction workers with labour cards get several benefits such as financial assistance for the education of their children from the state-owned Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board.
 
 Last month, police registered a case against one Biswajit Sudana of Polasara for issuing fake labour cards by collecting money from construction workers. "We registered a case on the basis of a complaint lodged by a trade union," said inspector in charge of Polasara police station Tapaswini Kanhar.
 
 The DLO of Chhatrapur, Siba Narayan Sahoo, who is inquiring into the scam in Polasara, said, "Some people have made duplicate stamps of the ALO here to issue the fake cards. We have been issuing labour cards online from May 2016."
 
 Labour officials said a well-connected gang was operating in the district to issue fake labour cards by collecting money from labourers. "We are inquiring into it," said Sahoo.
 
 The Odisha Nirmana Sramika Union, Ganjam unit, submitted a memorandum to Subash Singh, the chairman of Odisha Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, requesting him to take action against those involved in producing fake labour cards.
 
