MOHALI: The local bodies department, Punjab headed by   minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has issued showcause notice to deputy mayor Manjit Singh Sethi over two-year-old issue of alleged use of mayor un-parliamentary language and misconduct during MC house meeting in July 2016.

 Earlier, congress had cornered Mayor Kulwant Singh for alleged corruption charges in purchasing tree pruning machine.
 
 Both the councillors have alleged political vendetta against them and alleged harassment at the hands of Navjot Singh Sidhu, minister for local bodies department, Punjab.
 
 Sethi said, “Now, this is nothing but harassment at the hands of Congress minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. History repeats itself, as whistleblowers are generally targeted and efforts are made to de-throne them. I raised my voice against corrupt practices of then MC commissioner   in 2016 and now, after around two years, the stale issue is again being raised which shows that it is purely to target me. In 2016, I had already appeared before the local bodies department and submitted my reply. Then, where is the need to re-issue the showcause notice now?”
 
 He said he had visited the local bodies department on the day he was called. But, due to the unavailability of Minister Sidhu, the hearing could not be recorded.
 
 In July 2016, the MC meeting was adjourned after a ruckus marred the proceedings with Sethi and the then MC commissioner Uma Shanker Gupta, trading corruption charges and using un-parliamentary language.
 
 Recently, local bodies department had goofed up the issue of targeting mayor Kulwant Singh. The department, first, issued a public statement mentioning that Sidhu had suspended the mayor and his councillorship. But, when questioned by TOI to ascertain the clause of Municipal Act which empowers local bodies department or minister to suspend an elected member, the minister failed to deliver a satisfactory answer.
 
 After two hours, the local bodies department had issued a revised public statement saying that the mayor has been issued a showcause notice to appear and explain the inflated payment done for purchasing the machine. Later Mayor Kulwant Singh had knocked the door of court alleging defamation against local bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.
 
 Kulwant Singh said, “Now, the case is in court and we have filed a defamation case against the minister. It is a political vendetta against me to oust the SAD-BJP majority in MC.”
 
 The unrest in MC has also provoked some of the SAD councillors already in opposition of mayor Kulwant Singh to come out in open against the mayor. Sources in SAD said the opposition against Kulwant Singh came up when he contested MC election on Azaad group and won the mayor’s seat with the support of Congress councillors. During the mayoral elections, SAD-BJP councillors did not vote for mayor Kulwant Singh.
 
 Now, if the congress councillors withdraw their support to Kulwant Singh, after refusing to vote for the resolution against the showcause notice in MC house meet, the house may go on to prove majority in the house for the supporters of Kulwant Singh. 
 
 Sources in SAD said on request of anonymity, “If the house goes in for proving majority for Kulwant Singh, some of the SAD councillors will not vote in his favour and he will have step down.”
 
  councillors have already shown their opposition by opting for the senior deputy mayor’s chair.
 
 
 
 
