CHENNAI: Within five days after the Madras high court cleared a hurdle in the sale of prime land  , for which   quoted Rs 360 crore to Madras Race Club ( ), the deal has been sealed, and the registration formalities completed on Friday. 

 The state government too gained a windfall   of around Rs 38 crore by way of stamp duty and registration charges from the single transaction.
 
 DLF Energy Pvt Ltd, an entity of the Delhi-based DLF group, has registered the 5.56-acre prime   parcel on Velachery main road near Raj Bhavan in Guindy, by settling MRC the full amount, which included a Rs 60 crore refundable deposit paid in 2006, when the sale/lease proposal was taken up.
 
 “Apart from settling the full dues to MRC, the company has paid around Rs 38 crore towards stamp duty and registration charges to the state. The company intends to develop Grade A office space to the extent of 0.7 million sq ft utilising this premium land parcel,” a source in the real estate industry told TOI, on condition of anonymity. When contacted, Ramesh K Swamy, executive vice-president, DLF Chennai, declined to comment.
 
 MRC had in 2006 decided to lease out the land parcel to prospective property developers on lease for 66 years. DLF had emerged as the successful bidder with a plan to develop a commercial mall and entered into an MoU. However, due to various hurdles and disputes, the project did not take off.
 
 In 2011, DLF made an offer to buy the property and MRC decided to sell it for Rs 325 crore with a condition that DLF settle all the pending lease rent dues. A fresh MoU was signed to that effect in February 2011. As issues persisted, the proposal remained stuck.
 
 Finally, in December 2017, DLF offered to buy the property for Rs 360 crore inclusive of Rs 60 crore refundable deposit already paid. Questioning the move, A Viswanathan, a member of the club, moved the high court.
 
 DLF had been remitting periodically lease rent since June 2006 and it worked out to Rs 307.8 crore. In 2013, Cushman & Wakefield valued the property at Rs 302.5 crore, while CBRE South Asia Pvt Ltd valued it between Rs 297.8 crore and Rs 313.2 crore.
 
 
