ITANAGAR: The   cabinet has approved the recommendation of the Nabam Rebia committee that was studying the feasibility of constructing a greenfield airport at Hollongi. The report details the status of ownership of the 948.56-acre land at  , which is the proposed site for the construction of the airport. 

 The project had run into rough weather due to controversies over the site selection. Initially,   had been selected as the proposed site but the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the   (AAI) later asked the state government to find a new site for the airport, after which Hollongi was selected.
 
 On the request of the state government, a central joint inspection committee came to   to study the feasibility of the site last year. Following the committee's report, the state cabinet, in its meeting on July 18 last year, had approved Hollongi as a feasible site. The state government later went on to constitute a committee under the chairmanship of urban development minister Nabam Rebia to study the feasibility of the Hollongi site.
 
 The cabinet, in its meeting, further approved increasing the upper age limit from 30 to 32 years for appearing in competitive examinations, while tribal and educated unemployed youths can apear in the examinations till they are 37. 
 
 To strengthen the Arunachal Pradesh Public Service Commission, the cabinet approved creation of seven posts under various categories. The cabinet also approved amendment of the Arunachal Pradesh Victim Compensation Scheme 2011, paving the way for Rs 5 lakh to be paid to a rape victim. The earlier amount was Rs 50,000. If a rape victim dies, her family will now be entitled to a compensation of Rs 7 lakh.
 
 Compensations for victims of sexual abuse (excluding rape) has been fixed at Rs 50,000. The amount will be Rs 2 lakh in case of minor victims of physical abuse and victims suffering from more than 25% burns. Victims having lost their foetus due to physical abuse can claim Rs 50,000. Compensation to victims of acid attack has been increased from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh.
 
 The cabinet also approved the   Rules, 2018 and the Arunachal Pradesh Lokayukta (Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018.
 
 
