GURUGRAM: The quiet village of Kasan near Manesar woke up to chaos on Thursday morning after its headman   (51) was gunned down in his dairy the night before, allegedly by his close friend and former Army comrade Sunder Singh (49).

 Police said Bahadur Singh was riddled with eight bullets and could not even make it to hospital — he succumbed to the injuries on the way. 
 
 With heavy police presence in the village and the local hospital in the morning, there was tension in the air even as the victim was cremated. Sunder surrendered on Wednesday night itself, and also handed over the purported murder weapon, at the industrial police station in IMT Manesar.
 
 Bahadur had retired from the Army as havildar in 2007. Sunder was a former  , who also retired in 2007 as constable from the Army. Bahadur was elected sarpanch in the last panchayat election. Since retirement, they had together got into the business of lending money, said police.
 
 In their complaint to the police, Bahadur’s nephews Rohit and Sanjay alleged they were both present when the murder was committed, and that two of Sunder’s brothers — Yashpal Master and Rampal alias Ramu — were also involved in the killing. Apparently, all three had arrived at the dairy in a tempo, shot Bahadur, and fled in the same vehicle. The FIR names all three as accused.
 
 “As uncle stepped forward to greed him, Sunder Singh pulled out his pistol and shot at him. He was followed by his two brothers, who also fired. When I tried to stop them, Yashpal hit me with a stick and threatened to kill me. The trio then left in a tempo. Thereafter, we raised the alarm and passersby helped us take uncle to hospital, where doctors declared him dead,” reads Rohit’s complaint. All three have been booked under sections 323 (causing hurt), 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intent) of the IPC.
 
 According to police, a falling out over finances appears to be the motive for the murder. A villager, on condition of anonymity, said the two were friends and had entered the money-lending business after retirement, where they lent out money at high interest rates, which they had borrowed from people at lower rates. Differences cropped up between the two after Bahadur reportedly took a loan of around Rs 35 lakh from Sunder, who was demanding it back.
 
 A senior police officer explained, “Though the FIR is based on the family’s complaint, our preliminary probe has revealed only Sunder was involved. We have also booked his two brothers, but further action will be taken only after verifying their roles.”
 
 The preliminary probe, according to police sources, suggests Bahadur and Sunder had reached the dairy on a motorcycle around 8.30pm on Wednesday and shared a few drinks. That was when they reportedly had an argument over money, and Sunder, in fit of rage, pulled out his licensed pistol and fired eight bullets into Bahadur.
 
 “A case has been registered as per the complaint, and we are questioning the main accused. We handed over Bahadur’s body to his family after post-mortem,” said Dharmbir Singh, ACP, Manesar. “The main accused is being interrogated. He will be produced in court by Friday,” said  , DCP (south).
 
 
