MUMBAI: The National Human Rights Commission ( ), hearing the case of a 67-year-old Canadian national against a Khar   team for barging into his five-star   at Marine Drive after midnight to arrest him in a   case in 2013, ordered the state to pay a compensation of Rs 50,000 each to the man and his wife on Tuesday. 

 NHRC stated that the cops “exceeded their limits by way of colourable exercise of power and authority” which resulted in violation of human rights of the petitioner and his wife. 
 
 “The chief secretary, government of Maharashtra, is asked to submit the compliance report together with the proof of payment within a period of eight weeks, without fail,” the   copy read. 
 
 Two police officers who barged into the   room of Alnoor Jamal where he was with his wife Shaheena, and their senior inspector were earlier punished by the department. Their two years’ annual increment was frozen. 
 
 The incident dates back to August 29, 2013. A police team from   along with the complainant and his two lawyers landed at the hotel around 1.30am and sought to arrest Jamal, who subsequently shot off letters to senior police officers complaining of “intrusion, intimidation and criminal trespass”. Senior cops asked DCP Chhering Dorje to inquire into the incident. 
 
 The NHRC order stated that the police party was acting under the influence of other persons. “The petitioner and his wife who are senior citizens were made to suffer during odd hours for no cogent reasons,” the order read. 
 
 Jamal, who has business interests in several countries, including India, had come to Mumbai with his wife and taken a hotel suite. The purpose of the visit was related to a long-running dispute with his former Indian business partner. On August 29, a team of seven men, many in police uniform, reached Jamal’s hotel. They claimed that a “sensitive investigation” was underway. The Khar policemen told Jamal that they needed to arrest him in relation to a cheating case filed by his former business partner. 
 
 NHRC order said perusal of the DCP’s report showed that a case was registered under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the complaint of one Shobhit Rajan against the petitioner at 9.45pm on August 28, 2013. Within hours, the police team reached the hotel along with Rajan’s advocates. “A photocopy of the passport was obtained and the petitioner was forced to deposit his passport with the manager of the aforesaid hotel. It has been admitted that no female officer was part of the raiding party,” the order read. The Khar police case is with EOW now. 
 
 
