Nagpur: A bar-and-restaurant being constructed in the six-storey commercial building JP Square, at Law College Square on Amravati Road, caught fire at 2am on Monday. No one was injured, even as the fire spread to another bar-and-restaurant in the same building before it was brought under control by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) fire and emergency services department after a four-hour effort. Building developer — Pardesi Constructions Private Limited — has brought the ground and first floors (mezzanine) of the commercial structure into use four years ago, allegedly without obtaining occupancy certificate, and fire compliance certificate. The two bar-restaurants were set to open on the fourth and sixth floors, which have been sanctioned only for storage of non-combustible materials. The fire broke out somewhere on the fourth floor, and engulfed the entire floor within an hour. The intense heat from the fire shattered the huge glass windows, and soon flames were leaping up to the fifth and sixth floors. The hot glass fell like fire balls in all directions. There was sensation in the area for around two hours, with a petrol pump located a little distance away on the other side of the road, two residential buildings abutting the building compound, and the national highway on the front side. A few youths had also expressed the fear that three-four labourers were residing in the building on the fourth floor. Passers-by, including a couple of TOI staffers, blocked Amravati Road for traffic, and also roused the residents of the two adjoining houses, after alerting the police and fire department control rooms. Police team from Ambazari and Sitabuldi police stations, including DCP (zone-III) Rahul Maknikar and ACP (Kotwali division) RV Bansod, reached the spot and took control of the operations. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake too rushed to the spot. When he learnt that some combustible machines were stored on the sixth floor, Uchake led his team into the building from the fire staircase. Ten fire tenders were pressed into action along with the 42-meter turntable ladder. A coaching class operates on the building first floor, and a garment shop on the ground floor. The fire did not spread downwards, as the second and third floor were vacant. Sixth floor too escaped much damage as the fifth floor was also vacant. However, the fourth floor was completely gutted. A hoarding on the premises too caught fire. The cause of the fire could not be ascertained. Later in the day, fourth floor restaurant owner Arjun Chabbra lodged a complaint with the fire department and Sitabuldi police station, alleging that the fire was set by some miscreants. “I was there till 6.30pm. There is no power connection to the entire floor. Also, there were no items or persons to spark a fire,” he told TOI. NMC assistant commissioner (Dharampeth Zone) Mahesh Moroney inspected the building and said, “There is no occupancy certificate, so notice will be issued not to use any part of the building. Penalty on daily basis will be levied in case building is still used. We cannot take action against fourth and sixth floor under MRTP Act since they have not been brought into use,” he said. Uchake said decision on permitting part use of building will be taken after through inspection. “Fire systems were installed in the building. Only ground plus first floor is in use and equipped with all systems. Developer had submitted an application seeking fire compliance on February 28. We will declare the building unsafe in case fire systems are not found working properly,” he said. Building owner Jaiprakash Khushalani said NMC was delaying sanction to revised building plan and part occupancy certificate. “We got sanctioned building plan for basement parking, lower ground, upper ground, mezzanine and five upper floors on October 9, 2006. Entire building was sanctioned for commercial purpose. We ensured all systems and applied for part occupancy certificate on November 7, 2013. Since then, I am pursuing for all the certificates. We did not bring upper floors into use, so there is no question of violations. I had even got sanction on lower ground floor for a bank, but converted it into parking,” he said. FOURTH FIRE IN 16 DAYS This is the fourth fire in a commercial structure within 16 days in the city. The first fire incident occurred in a cold storage turned godown at Kalamna, engulfing around 60,000 tonne foodgrain. Then there was a fire at NGDA workshop at Sadar, followed by one at Raj Bhandar in Dharampeth. All structures, including JP Square, lack the necessary permissions.