GREATER NOIDA: A delegation of Greater   homebuyers met   authorities to complain against handing over of TOC (temporary occupation certificate) to builders with incomplete projects. 
 
 Residents of Radicon Vedantam Apartment sector 16 C, Amrapali Centurian Park Techzone 4, Newtech La Palacia and Earth Towne under NEFOMA (Noida Extension Flat Owners and Members Association) met Greater Noida authority ACEO Balkrishna Tripathi on Friday.
 
 Citing the norm as flouting authority rules as well as   (RERA) established under Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, NEFOMA demanded action against errant authority staff as well as those builders who connived with authority staff to get TOC, no objection to start unfinished projects and levied extra charges etc. to homebuyers.
 
 Citing the example of a project called Vedantam Radicon Infrastructure & Housing Pvt Ltd (located in plot No. 11B, Sector -16c) Annu Khan, president NEFOMA maintained that the builder is trying to build the 5 acres of society since last 8 years (since 2010). “The builder gave the possession date for the society for 2014 to flat buyers. But since then the builder has been extending the possession date despite recurrent dharna protests by flat buyers of the project with no possession till date,” said Khan who adds that work from the builder on the site has been stopped completely since the end of 2016. “There’s no labour at the site. From time to time flat buyers of the project have informed Greater Noida authority that the builder is not working to finish the project, but there was no redress. As a result these hundreds of homebuyers today are a disturbed lot,” said Khan.
 
 NEFOMA handed over a memorandum on behalf of homebuyers to ACEO Balkrishna Tripathi on Friday and demanded redress. “These builders procured TOC in connivance with some authority staff despite project work related to gate, boundary wall, electricity, STP plant, drainage system, park, lobby, club, electric fittings inside the flats, window panes, doorways etc. remain incomplete. We asked   to inquire how the builder was given TOC despite so much unfinished work as it amounts to flouting of RERA guidelines which prohibits TOC or occupation certificate to unfinished projects,” said Khan.
 
 Additionally, Khan maintained that these unauthorised TOCs were used by builders to raise extra charges to homebuyers along with threat of interest levied in the absence of non-payment. “Additional money was demanded from old flat buyers for charges such as farmers’ compensation (of the land used), escalation charges, late payment charges, sewer, meters, water connection charges etc.” said Kamlesh Kumar, homebuyer of Radicon Vedantam Apartment sector 16C.
 
 “We are even asked to pay common area maintenance charges including electricity, water, and sewer money etc. in advance whereas no such facility of club, swimming pool, lobby etc. is ready,” said Arvind Srivastava also from Radicon Vedantam.
 
 ACEO Tripathi assured to redress the matter. “We will investigate the matter and address all issues of the homebuyers. I have asked the planning department to call the builders as well as the homebuyers and to find a solution face-to-face on these issues,” said Tripathi.
 
 
