NEW DELHI: Since 2000, DDA has allotted 670 plots in   to traders for shifting a chemical market out of the densely populated Walled City. However, 17 years on, not a single shop has come up. 

 While allotting the plots close to GT Road, measuring 50sq m each,   (DDA) had constructed wide roads and developed the sewer system. But the site is now full of wild plants and shrubs, and is largely used by villagers living nearby for open defecation and dumping garbage, and by anti-socials to have a drink. 
 
 In the neighbourhood, an industrial area developed by Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation has 3,000 small-scale factories doing brisk business and employing thousands of people who are changing the economy of the neighbouring villages. However, 17 years on, the chemical market, which is part of Delhi Master Plan 2021, is nowhere to be seen.
 
  
  
 
 
 “I walk through stinking garbage to go out for work every morning. The civic body does not lift garbage because this is an unused site,” said Pradeep Khatri, whose house is located close to the proposed market. The garbage, in turn, invites cattle, adding to the chaos and filth.
 
 The site doesn’t even have a proper signboard. Only one rusty signboard can be found that identifies the site as a chemical market developed by DDA. Of the 1,100 plots, 670 have been allotted for construction of warehouses. However, there is no sign of any construction in the entire site. 
 
 The traders are to be shifted out of Walled City as their ware is considered dangerous in a congested area and can pose a threat to human life. Many of them operate out of extremely inaccessible areas where no ambulance or fire tender can reach easily, if at all, in case of an emergency. 
 
 In November, the Delhi high court had pulled up DDA and the north corporation for not shifting the chemical units from Tilak Bazaar in   to Narela.
 
 Shyam Sundar, general secretary of Chemical Merchants’ Association, said the traders were ready to move to Narela but DDA’s engineers were not allowing any construction at the site. “They say the traders’ maps are not acceptable to DDA, though these have been approved by the Union urban development ministry,” said Sundar.
 
 A DDA official said the agency had updated the maps according to fire norms required for the chemical market. “Any   willing to start construction can collect the updated map from DDA’s planning division and start construction right away,” he added. 
 
 
