Nagpur: In its second major crackdown in last two months, the National Council of Teachers Education (NCTE) has derecognized 17 BEd and MEd colleges for the academic session 2018-19 from Maharashtra after they failed to comply with its norms. Four well-known MEd colleges affiliated to Nagpur University (NU) are among the errant institutes. For the current academic session, eight PG education institutes are affiliated to NU. With the NCTE’s latest action, just four colleges would be left for UG students to choose from in the next session. Bhandara’s Anurag Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya, KC Bajaj College of Education’s PG Department of Education at Jaripatka, Kamptee’s Shantiniketan College of Education (MEd) and Suyash College of Education at Dighori are the four derecognized colleges. Nagpur University’s PG Education Department, Priyadarshini College of Education, Zulekha College of Education at Shanti Nagar and Wardha’s Kasturba MEd College would be able to admit students for 2018-19. On January 10, TOI had reported about the beginning of NCTE crackdown with derecognition of 14 colleges across the state. The latest action takes the tally to 31. This time, nine Teachers Educaton Instititues (TEIs) have been issued show cause notices. The Bhopal-headquartered Western Regional Committee (WRC), in its meeting held on January 30 and 31, deliberated over 95 TEIs from its jurisdiction comprising Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. As per minutes of the 287th meeting, the recognition of 28, including 17 from Maharashtra, was withdrawn. Among the 17 derecognized colleges, 10 are MEd institutes while the rest are BEd. Another nine BEd colleges from the state have been served show cause notices. They have been given one month’s time to either explain why recognition shouldn’t be withdrawn by NCTE. These and the 17 derecognized were issued revised recognition order to abide by the provision of NCTE Regulations 2014 in the last couple of years. As per Ministry of Human Resource Development, close to 16,000 colleges are offering education courses such as MPEd, MEd, BPEd, BEd and DEd. In the last one year, over 1,000 institutes were issued show cause notices over their failure to furnish requisite data through affidavits as sought by NCTE. An NCTE official said another 3,000 institutes would soon be issued notices. Last month, 14 BEd colleges from the state were derecognized. They included Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya run by General Awari Smruti Shikshan Sanstha at Siraspeth, BG Patel College of Education of Gondia, Geeta Shikshan Prasarak Mandal of Jaitala, SP BEd College of Deshapnde Layout. Rest of the 10 colleges were from places like Akola, Washim, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Nandurbar, Nashik, Satara and Thane.