NEW DELHI: The   is likely to communicate its opinion to President Ram Nath Kovind on the ‘office-of-profit’ petition against 20 AAP MLAs from Delhi before   demits office on January 22.

 Joti, when asked to confirm this at a press conference held on Thursday to announce polls in three northeastern states, declined to comment saying that the matter was “sub judice”. However, TOI has learnt from sources that there have been discussions in the commission that with the hearing and proceedings completed on the petition seeking disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs for allegedly holding ‘office of profit’ as parliamentary secretaries, it would be but appropriate for the existing members of the poll body to convey their collective opinion to the President.
 
 “Yes, it would be ideal for the same members who have been part of the proceedings to finalise the opinion and convey it to the President. Both Joti and O P Rawat have heard the case all along, and it would not be fair if a newly appointed election commissioner becomes part of the EC’s opinion and signs the order,” an official told TOI.
 
 In the event of   endorsing the office-of-profit charge, a mini-election will be forced upon Delhi.
 
 When CEC Nasim Zaidi who had been hearing the case retired in July last year, the proceedings were still not complete and the response of AAP MLAs to Delhi chief secretary’s contentions regarding the benefits derived by the said MLAs as parliamentary secretaries were awaited. These responses are now all in. 
 
 While some sources connected with the case indicated that the opinion may have already been conveyed by EC to the President, this could not be confirmed. But according to a source familiar with the case, Joti is expected to write to the President as CEC conveying opinion on whether the AAP MLAs had held ‘office of profit’ as parliamentary secretaries before their appointment was quashed by the Delhi high court in September 2016.
 
 Incidentally, EC had last year declined an AAP plea asking the office of   proceedings to be set aside in the light of Delhi HC quashing the appointments. EC, in its order, stated that it was of the “considered opinion” that AAP MLAs did hold “de facto the office of parliamentary secretaries from March 13, 2015 to September 8, 2016”.
 
 
