NAGPUR: After waiting for two years, vice chancellor   is all set to implement his dream project of 50:50 examination pattern from forthcoming academic year (2018-19), where colleges would be asked to equally share the burden like  .

 The 50:50 pattern would allow colleges to conduct first, third and fourth semester exams while NU would hold second, fifth and sixth semesters. It would be a historic move for the nine decades old university, as it would be first time the colleges would set papers, conduct exams and also declare results on their own.
 
 NU, however, decided to move in phases and would be implementing the system for BA course only, where number of students are highest among all faculties. “Depending on success of pilot project, we would implement the pattern for other courses. Since number of students is exponential, it would be a good trial run that would help our officials to root out discrepancies in the system. We’re facing many problems in scheduling BA exams in semester pattern due to large number of subjects,” an elated VC told TOI.
 
 “The degree would be given on the basis of students’ performance in last two semesters examinations, conducted by NU,” he said. 
 
 Kane was trying to implement the scheme since he took over in April 2015 and had almost succeeded last year, just before commencement of current academic session in June. He constituted a panel under pro-VC   to frame modalities in 2016 and after submission of his report in February last year, the way was cleared for the ambitious project. 
 
 A proposal in this regard was even cleared with a majority by NU Academic and Management Councils. Only a notification remained to be issued to implement the new system which would have gone a long way in reducing the burden on over-stretched exam system and streamlining it.
 
 However, a week before it was all set to be implemented, managements of private colleges, mostly owned by the local politicians, allegedly exerted pressure on the VC to drop his ambitious plan that would have revolutionized the entire system in NU. Their main contention was lack of teachers and infrastructure with which they were operating for all these years, which is reported by TOI in detail in June last year. 
 
 Later, Principals’ Forum under senior academician   met with VC and expressed their strong opposition to his plans citing same reason of severe shortage of teachers and even non-teaching staff for holding exams. They warned him to either defer the implementation or face their complete non-cooperation. That time the VC had no option than to halt his dream project, as per NU officials.
 
 This time however,   seems to have made up his mind to make it a reality. “We’ve granted them enough time and now we would be implementing it from this year. A notification would soon be issued asking arts colleges to start preparing for holding exams for first semester. NU would form cluster for colleges in remote areas where infrastructure and teachers are a problem,” he said.
 
 
