 Madurai: Folk art, intrinsic to Tamil Nadu and which once thrived in this region, is fast fading from Madurai’s cultural canvas. With a major celebration on to mark Meenakshi Amman temple’s achievement as the first among 100 iconic places in the country, organisers are struggling to find folk artists.  Dance historian and exponent of folk dance Shylaja Mahadevan told reporters that Madurai Sri Kala Kendira Arts and Cultural Society has been on a desperate hunt for folk artists to enroll them as members of the society. The society is keen to create a record with 2000 artists performing a synchronised ‘Oyilattam’ to celebrate Meenakshi Amman temple’s achievement. But, only 500 participants have registered so far. One reason for this is that many artists perceived ‘Oyilattam’ as a masculine dance form, when, like many other dance forms, it had become a unisex dance. Unlike traditional and classical dances, folk dance did not require training and it was an expression of joy or celebration. It required the dancer to just throw up his or her hands and synchronise their footsteps, she said. “Performing folk dances enhanced lung capacity and joints also become flexible, whatever the age of the dancer,” said Mahadevan. Last year, seven world records were set for Bharatanatyam from April to December, but none dedicated to folk dance. The society has decided to organise a performance on February 18 in the American College grounds for which enrollments would be carried out till February 12. “It is such an easy dance to learn. We will give the participants a CD with three songs about Madurai and a simple dance technique which anyone between the age of six to sixty can learn,” she said. While, Zumba (a dance for fitness) which was introduced by a cyclist in 1990 had become popular, these folk dances which had been passed down through centuries find very few takers now, she lamented. “Eleven forms of folk dances have been mentioned in the epic Silapathigaram, but most of them are lost to us now,” said Mahadevan. Kattakkal, Kummi, Karagam, Kaisilambattam and Vallikummi were some of the popular folk dances which are rarely performed now. “It is important that classical dance teachers be aware of folk dances,” she said. As registration is a must to create a record, persons wishing to participate can approach the Madurai Sri Kala Kendira in Viswanthapuram. 