LUCKNOW: Defying Lucknow  's order to appear before a committee and submit details of self-finance courses,   skipped the meeting on Monday. 

 Lucknow University later gave one last opportunity to the college to present documentary details in its defence and warned of initiating action if the college fails to provide the information. LU had on Sunday asked   to appear before a committee and furnish details related to land, building, self-finance courses, minority status among others. Instead of appearing before the committee, the IT College administration confronted LU by questioning the veracity of the complaints lodged against it. 
 
 LU had received complaints on classes not being held for certain courses but IT College denied the allegation and alleged foul play. "Under which jurisdiction is LU asking us to furnish the details? We are a grant-in-aid minority college. These repeated letters threatening us is a clear harassment of a women's minority college," principal   told TOI. 
 
 In a letter, Prakash has raised questions on protocol not being followed and LU not providing list of complainants, both students and guardians. The letter reads, "Only when College Development Committee along with the principal (IT College) is able to meet the students/guardians, we will be able to address the queries with relevance to the issues of the students." 
 
 "It is simple. If they show us the documents, we will put a full stop in the case. Failure of the college to provide us information related to their courses, land, building and faculty shows there is something wrong," said LU spokesperson  . 
 
 The university had issued a 12-point letter to the college in December seeking details of self-finance courses run by college, number of seats in all self-finance courses, and documents confirming their 'association' from LU. In addition, college has been asked to provide details of permanent and guest faculties appointed by them, and whether they are running courses affiliated to university other than LU. 
 
 "The list of complainants provided by LU doesn't match with our records. The students whom the university claims have lodged a complaint, are not even bona fide students. It is strange that instead of lodging a complaint with the principal, the complainants approached the university," she said.
 
 
