AGARTALA: Normal life was affected in the bordering villages of   on Thursday following a dawn-to-dusk general strike called by the opposition   in protest against the police action on villagers on Wednesday in   and to ensure zero line fencing along a 9-km stretch running through five villages. 

 Though government offices and schools functioned normally, most of the markets were closed and private vehicles were off the road. Among other demands was the roll-back of the decision of demolishing party offices on government land without following rules. Congress also cried foul over the Karnataka governor's decision not to invite the Congress-JD (S) alliance to form the government. The police arrested more than 500 demonstrators.
 
 Party spokesperson Tapas De alleged that as many as 15 people, including 10 women, belonging to the minority community, were injured when police resorted to lathicharge to clear the blockade. The villagers had sought zero line fencing along the India-Bangladesh border instead of erection of wire fences across 150 yards. The director general of border management, during his recent visit to the area, had committed himself to wire-fencing within 20 yards. The villagers demanded compliance with this direction if the zero line fencing was not feasible. 
 
 BSF officials and the border management wing of the Union home ministry had interacted with the villagers when they had visited Sonamura villages. They were convinced that the villagers would face difficulties if the fencing was done across 150 yards of the international border and told villagers fences would be erected up to 20 yards, De said. However, two days ago, the chief minister visited the villages and directed the administration to finish the fencing work within three months.
 
 In consonance with this, the district administration had gone to the village to conduct their work when they were opposed by villagers. Finally, the police assaulted them and cleared the blockade. The work of fencing was initiated forcefully, alleged former minister and senior Congress leader Billal Mia.
 
 He also stated that the livelihood of more than 500 families in the five villages of Sonamura would be affected if the fencing work is executed within 150 yards of the Indian territory. The government has not agreed to a rehabilitation package for the affected families, he added. He further alleged that the border guards of   would torture them whenever they found them on Bangladesh territory but the state government did not help them. 
 
 
