NEW DELHI: A professor of environmental   at   has claimed that the studies conducted on Delhi’s air pollution are faulty as these were conducted against wrong parameters. 

  
  
 
 Citing the non-linear and amorphous structure of the city and poor   circulation as the major reasons behind the city’s air pollution, S M Akhtar suggested creation of micro-forests perpendicular to major wind directions in the city and making winter a no-construction season. 
 
 The studies on   in Delhi have   as these have used the same tools as those applied in linear cities like Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai, Akhtar said. “There is a need to study Delhi’s urban form and population density pattern.” Delhi is a city that is expanding at all directions, he added. 
 
 Akhtar claimed that the major source of the environmental problem is yet to be identified. “I believe that the major source of pollution is dust particles from construction sites and material transportation that also catalyse depletion of watersheds and green mass of the city.” 
 
 Accordingto his study, Delhi’s concentric form and growth makes the replacement and natural revitalisation of air mass polluted by human activities very tough. “This was corroborated when we witnessed the comparison of the linear north-south urban forms of Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata though they have a higher population density.”
 
 Elaborating the point, Akhtar said that in linear cities, the form and orientation allows the east-west wind that travel in India to regularly replace the air mass in the city. “The linear form also allows a spinal public route for transportation that is difficult in a circular city like Delhi as it has multiple and longer routes that makes it a compulsion for many to increasingly use private transport, leading to congestion.” 
 
 The professor suggested improvement of public transport as a major step to help Delhi. Akhtar also said creation of micro-forests perpendicular to the major wind directions of the city would replenish air “much like how it was done in New Raipur”.
 
 New green patches will also improve the city’s rainwater retention capacity and replenish groundwater, he added.
 
 
