HYDERABAD: Instructing officials to rope in locals while executing the project, Telangana chief secretary S K Joshi on Saturday said that suggestions from residents of the   area were extremely important to make the Charminar Pedestrianisation Project ( ) a success. He was at the site to inspect the ongoing work. 

 
 Apart from better coordination with locals, Joshi also ordered officials to use good quality raw material to ensure that the project turns out to be one-of-its-kind in the country. He was accompanied by officials from the department of municipal administration and urban development ( ) and the  . The team inspected Pathergatti, Charkaman, Chudi Bazar, Murgi Chowk,  , Moazzam Jahi Market and the proposed hawker's zone near River Musi.
 
 A quick scan of the belt revealed that most stalls near Charminar (many of them eateries set up in front of shops) have been removed and hoardings in the area pulled down, keeping with MAUD's beautification project. 
 
 The buffer zone being constructed with stone on the four sides is also near completion. "Only a small portion of stone flooring near Mecca Masjid has to be laid. It will be completed before May 10," said  , zonal commissioner (south), GHMC.
 
 The mammoth project encompasses construction of inner and outer ring roads, renovation of the Charkaman (the four arches), Chudi Bazar, Murgi Chowk and all monuments that fall in the CPP boundary. Providing multi-level parking and battery-operated autos are also part of CPP. A decision to build a bridge near Salar Jung Museum, to accommodate hawkers, is a recent addition to the project.
 
 Some hurdles, however, in the project are related to relocation of hawkers, roping in agencies for the multi-level parking work and coordinating with other departments for lighting of monument.
 
 Till date, apart from the 35 core sanctioned by previous governments, the GHMC has spent 20 crore on construction of the ring roads near the monument. An additional 19 crore has been spent on conservation works such as construction of the buffer zone, flooring, renovation of arches etc. 
 
 Now, the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has decided to sanction 8.19 crore to GHMC to uplift the Charminar. The amount is yet to be released. 
 
 After the civic works are completed, other ornamental works will be taken up. "Once the buffer zones are constructed, we will take up ornamental lighting, setting up of furniture, dustbins and other works," said K Srinivas Rao, director, house numbering cell, GHMC, who oversees the pedestrianisation project.
 
