LUCKNOW: As fissures in the faculty at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) and King George's Medical   ( ) on the issue of superannuation of doctors after 65 years of age got deeper, the younger teachers are contemplating the option of going on mass casual leave and voluntary retirement if the retirement age is fixed at 70 years.

 The SGPGIMS faculty forum has claimed that this would mean over a 100 comparatively younger faculty members at SGPGIMS going on a mass casual leave, as and when a date is decided. KGMU Teachers’ Association has said it will also join the agitation. Members of forum have sought the chief minister’s appointment. They are likely to meet him after he returns from election campaigning in Karnataka, and governor Ram Naik next week. The forum has claimed that if no assurance is met the members would take drastic steps.
 
 “We are anguished. The CM's office has told us that he would meet us next week. If the meeting bears no result, we will go ahead with the mass casual leave,” said secretary of SGPGIMS faculty forum, Prof MS Ansari.
 
 
 
 
 He added: “Around 40% departments are such where there is just the bare minimum difference in the age of the current head and the second in line. Such doctors are then deliberating taking voluntary retirement, if the age of retirement for their departmental heads is extended to another five years. Why should they then stay back, if one person has been holding onto a post for over 25 years, and is still getting a chance to keep the post of head for another five years?"
 
 "As many as 90 faculty members have submitted a signed representation to the forum, rejecting the proposal to superannuate doctors at 70 years of age. When SGPGIMS Chandigarh and AIIMS Delhi, both of which are at par with SGPGIMS Lucknow, have retirement age fixed at 65 years, why should a change be made here?" argued executive
 
 committee member, SGPGIMS faculty forum, Prof Amitabh Arya.
 
 KGMU Teachers' Association general secretary, Prof Santosh Kumar also said, "We are all against the age extension. It is only being done to benefit a handful of very senior doctors who want to hold onto administrative posts for many more years to come. Why can't their experience be utilized in setting up and strengthening departments which will come up at the eight new medical colleges in the state? If SGPGIMS faculty takes a step, we are with them in the movement."
 
 Prof Ansari also added, "It is not just about the younger faculty up in arms against the issue. Prof RN Mishra, head of the clinical immunology department, who is due to retire this December, has not taken the option of re-employment."
 
