SHIMLA: Taking lessons from the tragic school bus accident of Nurpur in which 23 schoolchildren and four others were killed on April 9, the state cabinet on Monday gave in-principle approval to transportation guidelines for the safe plying of vehicles deployed in schools. It was also decided that the transport department send letters to principals of private schools on behalf of the CM, informing them about the school transportation safety guidelines.

 In a cabinet meeting held here an approval was also given to the formation of   for the water supply and waste water management in Greater Shimla Planning Area and other places. The estimated project cost is Rs 770 crore and will be implemented with the   aid. It was also decided to provide an honorarium of Rs 21,500 per month, 3% annual increment, 12-day casual leave and 10-day medical leave, along with framing of transfer policy, for Gram Vidya Upasak working in elementary education department.
 
 It was decided to create and fill various posts in special purpose vehicle (SPV) project under Shimla and   smart city mission to execute works worth Rs 2,906 crore and Rs 2,105 crore, respectively. For Shimla smart city project, 24 posts will be filled on secondment basis and 26 posts of different categories will be filled on outsource basis. A similar number of posts will also be filled for Dharamshala smart city project on secondment and outsource basis.
 
 It was decided to create a new project implementation unit subdivision of HPPWD at Kangu (Salapar) in Mandi district, along with nine posts of different categories for expediting work on widening of Salapar-Tatapani road by funds from Central Road Fund. The government of India has approved Rs 219 crore for this road. The cabinet gave its approval to open an ITI at Nihari in Mandi district with six trades, along with creation of 30 posts of different categories to man the institute.
 
 Nod was also given for admission in different courses being run by various institutions affiliated with Technical Education University, Hamirpur, as per AICTE norms. In order to provide better mobility to home guards and civil defence at the time of natural calamities or distress, the cabinet approved purchase of 10 new trucks as replacement for its effective functioning.
 
