GAYA: The amateur artists of the Renaissance repertory on Saturday evening infused life into ‘Darogaji’ one of the colourful stories penned by one of India's best-loved litterateurs  .

 Play director and Renaissance chief Sanjay Sahay improvised the story to make it more contemporary through references to Patanjali and ‘Man ki baat’. In the process, the story-based on the opportunistic relationship between a junior police officer and a courtesan got converted into an ‘adult comedy’.
 
 Background recital of Begum Akhtar ghazals like “woh Jo hum mein tum mein qarar tha” and “mere hamnafas, mere hamnawa”, added zing to the play staged in a 100- year-old background with horse cart as the main mode of transportation. Kashif Khan, as police officer and Kirti Sharma (courtesan) in the lead roles kept the select audience spell bound for the better part of the hour-long show. It also introduced the younger audience to the nuisances of the protocol maintained by the now extinct ‘tawaifs’ (courtesans) with their mannerism and instant repartees. 
 
 As critic MA Kazmi says, “The ‘tawaifs’ cannot be called sex traders. They represented a culture that pitted docile housewives against liberated women well versed in the art of adult and adultery management. The traditional gentry used to send its adolescent male descendants to the ‘kothas’ (upstair chambers) of the courtesans to learn etiquette and party manners.”
 
 Besides Kashif Khan and Kirti Sharma, Manu Mani, playing the courtesan’s patron impressed the audience with his performance. “Sandhya playing the cop’s irksome wife and Nitesh Sharma, one of the more favoured clients of the courtesan made the play more lively,” said theatre buff Ashok Kumar.
 
 According to play director Sanjay Sahay, he improvised the story to add an ideological dimension by having what he called ‘stree vimarsh’ (dialogue on the women issue), denounce male chauvinism and acknowledge the woman’s right over her own body.
 
 Conceding that retaining the story’s essence in a modern timeline was a challenging job, Sahay said that though the ‘tawaif’ culture was almost extinct now but it will remain part of our social legacy.
 
 
