Right from my first successful venture, Bow Barracks Forever, I’ve been dealing with various crises of urban life —  ,  ,  , divorce,  , sexual violence, broken families, domestic violence et al. It’s not because I’m fascinated by the dark side of human mind but because it’s my reality. I can’t turn a blind eye to that and tell you nostalgic love stories or mindless comedy to while away time. To me, cinema has always been a serious business.

  addresses these crises faced by perhaps every family. We, the older generation, can’t accept our children when they break the same rules we once broke. Being much older now, I see the pain of these crises. I see how lonely we are despite having thousands of friends on social media. I see the sadness beneath the pent-up anger in us. We can’t handle this anguish and keep suffering. We end up becoming more and more mean to each other.
 
 In this film, I’ve tried to show how we can overcome this deep angst. All the characters in the film are unable to handle their angst. But somehow, music steps into their lives and, for a moment, they feel a bit sad. It makes them do something unusual. They forget their meanness and understand each other, accept each other’s differences and move ahead. I believe every person has some inherent goodness, which can only surface if they feel good from within. Now, how do you feel genuinely good? By crying your heart out.
 
 Aami Ashbo Phirey is about simple songs that touch us, make us feel good, do good. The characters don’t even know who the singer is, but the songs change them unwittingly.
 
 I wanted to make an inspiring film in today’s dark, murky world. A film that can help the audience genuinely feel good. Songs have saved my life and helped me conquer depression. Perhaps this film will help you understand your world and forget your meanness and loneliness. Sometimes a film, a song or a book can actually make your own goodness surface. This film is very special to me. Let us all feel genuinely good and start afresh this Noboborsho.
 
