Vadodara: As the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) examination concluded on Sunday, students who appeared for the paper found it moderate to tough. Around 2,500 students from the city had registered for the NEET which is conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education every year for aspirants seeking admission to undergraduate MBBS and BDS courses.  The medical entrance test consisted of one paper in all languages containing 180 objective type questions (four options with a single correct answer) from physics, chemistry and biology (botany and zoology). The duration of test was three hours.  A majority of students found the physics portion comprising of 45 questions tough while the students rated chemistry portion as moderate and biology portion easy.  “Of the 45 questions which were asked in the physics portion, 24 questions were from class 12 syllabus while the rest were from class 11 syllabus. I avoided answering some questions to prevent negative marking,” said a student. The chemistry portion had equal share of questions from class 12 and class 11.  “The biology portion which comprised of 90 questions had 46 from class 12 syllabus and 44 from class 11,” said the student.  The examination was conducted at seven centres across the city. While some students were of the opinion that the examination this year was easier compared to last year, others said that the examination was actually tougher, especially the physics portion. Across the state, nearly 75,000 took the entrance examination for medical and dental courses that was held at 138 centres. The test is conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). After making the NEET exam compulsory to take admission in medical and dental courses, the test was for the first time conducted in nine local languages including Gujarati. Total 180 questions of 720 marks, including 60 each from the three sections, were asked in the exam. Each right questions brings four marks and for each incorrect response, 1 mark will be deducted. The exam duration was three hours. Experts said that most of the questions were asked from the central board and NCERT but questions of around 20 marks were out of the syllabus due to which some students faced difficulty. 