HYDERABAD: Ahead of  , Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University-Hyderabad (JNTU-H) will be conducting a free computer-based practice test for registered candidates on April 19-20 in six districts across  .

 “The free computer-based test ( ) will be held in Warangal, Khammam, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Nalgonda and Hyderabad. Candidates will have to register themselves on the official website of Eamcet to appear for the practice test. Apart from this, mock tests are also available on Eamcet website that can be attempted by the candidates multiple times,” said Venugopal Reddy, vice-chancellor, JNTU-H, at a press conference on Saturday.
 
  
 It is for the first time that JNTU-H will be conducting Eamcet online from May 2 to 7. Over 2.17 lakh candidates will be testing their luck. The varsity authorities elaborated on the steps candidates need to follow before they appear for CBT. “After completing the biometric at the examination centres, candidates will be allocated a computer to attempt the test. Candidates will have to enter their user ID which is mentioned on the hall-ticket and enter the password which will be shared with them 10 minutes before the exam,” said Prof Reddy.
 
 In the online test, candidates are free to change and review their answers at any point of time. “The system will display questions answered in green, visited and not answered in red and to be reviewed in purple. In the earlier pen and paper mode, students could not change their answer once they have bubbled on the OMR sheet. However, in CBT, candidates can change and review answers,” he said. A countdown timer will be at the top right corner of the computer screen.
 
 Officials clarified that candidates will not have to submit the answersheets as it will be automatically saved after countdown of 180 minutes concludes. To ensure that the exam is held without any glitches, JNTU-H has made elaborate arrangements. “We have allocated 10 per cent of the total number of computers at each centre as a backup. Candidates will be allowed inside the test centre two hours before the exam. They will not be allowed to enter if they are late by even one minute,” said Yadaiah, registrar, JNTU-H.
 
 
