NASHIK: The civic body on Wednesday issued notices to four dairies on Wadala Road for not keeping the premises clean. The municipal corporation has warned the owners of the dairies of strict action if they did not clean the premises within a week

 Officials said this was part of a regular process but they were exercising caution since there has been an outbreak of the deadly Nipah virus in Kerala that have killed over a dozen people so far. 
 
 “We have given them a deadline of seven days to clean up their premises. The surrounding areas also should not be unclean due to their dairies and animals,” said an   official.
 
 “They have been told to inform us whether their dairies are authorised or not. If it is unauthorised, we will inform the concerned department for appropriate action,” the official said. 
 
 He said the civic workers were keeping the city clean but there have been complaints that some areas were unclean due to dairies and animals. 
 
 Though the city is safe as yet from the Nipah virus, the civic body was making provisions for treatment in case of any untoward incident. 
 
 “We have an isolation ward in Dr Zakir Hussain Hospital for swine flu that is vacant for two years. It can be used in case of a Nipah breakout here. But the chances are rare as there are no fruit bats here, due to which the virus spreads. It is transmitted from bat to pig and from pig to humans. People travelling to Kerala and coming back should do check up immediately,” another NMC official said.
 
 Stray animals to be transported to cattle ponds: The   has asked owners of animals to keep them in stables. Or else, the civic body will take the animals to cattle pounds (kondwadas). 
 
 Stray animals are often seen blocking the roads and making it difficult for commuters to pass. Earlier, this month, a cow went berserk at   Road, injuring some pedestrians. Following this incident, the NMC swung into action.
 
 “We will transport the stray animals to the cattle pounds and impose fine on the owner. If no one claims the animals we will send them to ‘goshalas’,” an official said. 
 
 
