CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court sent the accused Vikas in the case of assault on cops at   to three days of police remand on Friday. Meanwhile the police had also arrested four women who were produced before the court who were also sent to judicial custody. 

 Cops said the knife which the accused had used for assaulting had been recovered. Meanwhile police stated during the investigation the police wanted to know the leads to reach out to other co accuse whom Vikas knew . Also police stated that Vikas is wanted in other snatching cases and police wanted to interrogate that angle as well .
 
 The other accuse who were sent to judicial custody were identified as Babli, Muskan, Dolly and   who were sent to judicial custody till February 2.
 
 A police party came under attack when it tried to nab a man accused in a 2017 assault case at Kishangarh village on late Wednesday night. While the accused, Vikas alias Bholu (a resident of Kajehri), injured Sector 61 police post in-charge Om Parkash with a sharp-edged weapon, former’s family and local residents attacked the police party with stones and vandalized a PCR vehicle. Later, Sector 36 police arrested 13 persons, including Vikas, under relevant sections of the IPC, Arms Act and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.
 
 Om Parkash along with two cops Sandeep and Virender had gone to check the   footages of a hotel at Kishangarh at 10 pm on Wednesday when police post in-charge noticed Vikas coming on a bike with his mother. As cops signaled Vikas to stop, he tried to speed away. Though policemen nabbed him, he took out a knife and injured Om Parkash.
 
 Police said as his mother saw police arresting Vikas, she started creating a ruckus in the area and even manhandled the cops. She also allegedly hurled stones at the police party. As cops along with Vikas took shelter in the hotel, his mother and other family members along with some locals entered the hotel and vandalized it too.
 
 Meanwhile, the sub-inspector informed Sector 36 police station and PCR and extra police forces and a PCR van reached the spot to help the three cops. Vikas’s family and others attacked the police party with stones and damaged PCR van. Later, police brought Vikas to Sector 36 police station. Other accused were arrested on Thursday.
 
 
