The non-payment of the land cost to the revenue department has hampered the work on the much-awaited trade and convention centre in Trichy, it seems. It is two months since the district administration had handed over enter upon permission to Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) to commence the construction of a trade centre. Entrepreneurs in the city, who said they lapsed the period, had sought SIDCO to expedite their efforts to establish the   Centre at Panchapur.

 In the 2017-18 budget, the state government proposed a plan to set up trade convention centres in Madurai, Salem, and   districts. Carrying forward the announcement,   and   (TIDITSSIA) promoting Micro, Small, and   (MSME) in the district suggested the district administration to sanction government poromboke land to an extent of 9.42 acres in Panchapur close to the Trichy-Madurai National Highway. Apparently, top officials from SIDCO, Chennai inspected the proposed site and okayed the location. Subsequently, enter-upon permission to commence ground works was sought. "Enter upon was provided by the district administration in February 2, 2018. Within 60 days after obtaining enter upon, SIDCO should have paid the land cost to the revenue department. However, we have learnt that payment is being delayed," a Trichy-based entrepreneur said.
 
 The land cost is estimated at Rs 75 lakh, and SIDCO is awaiting the Rs 5-crore grant sanctioned by the state government to pay it, sources said. Similarly, TIDITSSIA has been waiting for the invite letter from SIDCO to form a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) comprising MSME representatives which was supposed to generate Rs 5 crore capital towards the construction of the trade centre. "Trichy lags infrastructure for hosting exhibition and business fair. Having named by the union government in defence corridor, the works on the trade centre and meeting hall facility should be commenced at the earliest," said, N Manivannan, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES). Official sources at SIDCO claimed that efforts are underway at their headquarters to process and obtain a grant of Rs 5 crore for paying the land cost at the earliest. Once the payment was made, through the Commissionerate of Land Administration, Panchapur land will be formally transferred to SIDCO for commencing works.
 
 
