GURUGRAM: Over 100 people who have booked flats in   Housing Society protested outside the office of the registrar of cooperative societies in Gurgaon on Sunday, alleging irregularities in the management and demanding that they be handed over their houses.

 The project was launched in 1996 and the   had in 2000 allotted 4,000 square metres of land for 40 flats. In 2008, Huda increased the FAR of the plot for construction of 54 additional flats.
 
 The flat buyers alleged that the society management kept adding members and took crores of rupees from them in the name of constructing flats. The project has been mired in controversy for past one decade for alleged irregularities. 
 
 Gurgaon police have registered at least six cases against the contractor, Ishpal Bhardwaj, for allegedly taking money from 200 people on the promise of building flats but not delivering them.
 
 The members have even written to chief minister   over the alleged irregularities.
 
 In their letter to the registrar of cooperative societies last December, the buyers had highlighted how the number of members in the society were arbitrarily increased from 94 to 242.
 
 “The list was prepared without any investigation and audit. The project was initially for only 40 people, which were later increased to 94,” said Bhupender Singh, one of the buyers.
 
 “After the fraud came to light, various lists cropped up. At one point, a provisional list of 94 members was prepared along with a waiting list of 107 members. Now, the list of 242 members has been prepared suddenly. Our request to have the list audited by an independent agency has been ignored without any reason,” said Singh.
 
 “We’ve paid almost 80-90 per cent of the total price of the flats but are yet to see any progress,” said Rakesh Saluja, member of the Sunehra housing society.
 
 No member of the management committee of the society could be reached for a reaction.
 
 The flats in the society were to be ready by 2008, but they are yet to be delivered.
 
 
