CHANDIGARH: More than three years after a prisoner was killed in   district jail in a clash between two groups of inmates, the   and   high court has ordered the state authorities to pay Rs 12 lakh   to the deceased’s wife and minor daughter.

 Justice   passed this order on Monday while allowing a petition filed by  , wife of victim  , alias  , who was killed in Gurugram’s Bhondsi jail in October 2017, and her minor daughter. While referring to several judgements of the apex court given in similar matters, the HC observed that the “prisoners or undertrials are not denuded of their rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and it is obligatory on the part of the state to ensure that there is no infringement of the indefeasible rights of a citizen to life except in accordance with law.”
 
 Holding the state authorities liable to pay compensation to the deceased’s family, Justice Jain ordered that the petitioners were entitled to a compensation of Rs 12 lakh over and above a compensation of Rs 3 lakh already paid by the state. “It is further directed that the amount of compensation of Rs 12 lakh shall be paid to wife of the deceased within one month and in case the amount is not paid, the respondents shall pay the interest thereafter at the rate of 9% per annum from the date of death of the deceased till the date of actual realization of the amount of compensation,” ordered the court.
 
 Monu was confined in jail in connection with the murder and various sections of Arms Act since July 2013. He was killed on October 7, 2014, during the clash between two groups inside the jail.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner advocate S S   told the HC that the state authorities had granted only a compensation of Rs 3 lakh and the same was paid to the father of the deceased. It was submitted that no compensation had been paid to the widow and her minor daughter. Jattan further argued that both the widow and her minor daughter were thrown out of the matrimonial home by the father of the deceased and the petitioner had not remarried.
 
 
