Nagpur: Slamming the   (MCI) for continuing to recommend reduction of seats in Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) in  , the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday, issued contempt notice to MCI chairman and state principal secretary.

 While asking the duo to reply within a week, a division bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar directed the union health and family welfare ministry against acting on MCI’s recommendations to reduce MBBS seats in any of the GMCHs.
 
 The court’s directive came after amicus curiae Anup Gilda submitted a TOI news report of Wednesday, which revealed that the apex body of medical education had also denied recognition to Akola GMCH seats due to deficiency of faculty which was at 14.38% and also of infrastructure like examination and lecture halls and central library. It was also reported that the chances of Gondia GMCH getting clearance for 100 MBBS seats were bleak considering the fact that it had highest staff vacancy at 21%.
 
 Reiterating its February 4, 2015 order, where it asked the Maharashtra government to remove all deficiencies before December 31, 2015, the court stated that latter had failed to adhere to its directives where it had also directed PWD to complete required construction before the deadline. “We see no reason as to why MCI is repeating the same things year after year. We may note this is not a dispute between private parties but a PIL in order to make medical facilities available to citizens of Vidarbha,” the HC had said.
 
 The directives during hearing of writ petition (No 3427/2000) filed by CH Sharma and others, regarding lack of facilities in GMCHs across Vidarbha. 
 
 Earlier, the amicus bought to the fore MCI’s communication of February 28 to union health secretary about reducing IGGMC’s MBBS seats from 150 to 100 on account of various deficiencies. It listed out 13 deficiencies in the IGGMC found during its inspection last month. It pointed out that medical superintendent Dr Sandhya Manjrekar had only two years of experience against requirement of 10 and hence was ineligible to hold the post. The apex body directed the IGGMC administration to remove all deficiencies within a month or face reduction in seat numbers.
 
 MCI’s letter stated its executive committee considered assessment report of December 19 last year and February 1 and 2 this year, where it found some deficiencies. “The committee decided to recommend to the centre not to recognize/approve IGGMC’s MBBS course against the increased intake from 100 to 150 seats under Section 11(2) of the IMC Act, 1956, till then,” MCI secretary S Savitha said.
 
 
