In December last year, a city-based start-up had launched Gurgaon’s first dockless   sharing service, providing   with last-mile connectivity from areas like   and bus stops to offices and residential areas. Four months on, even as the service continues to grow in size and scope, it has started to encounter some unforeseen problems – stolen and misplaced bicycles. The company ' ' started with a fleet of 200 bikes in Gurgaon in December, which has grown to 350 now, with over 2000 rides daily. However, officials from the company reveal that despite giving the commuters designated parking spots for the bikes through the  , in about 10% of all rides, commuters leave the bikes at random spots, including on the roadside, resulting in misplaced and  .

  
  Picture for representational purposes only
 
 The model of operation of this service is simple. According to the operators, the 350 cycles are stationed at a dozen different locations. Commuters can simply reach one of the stands, install the app and take the cycle for a spin. 
 He recommended distance for a ride is within 5kms, and the rent is nominal at `10 per hour. The cycles are fitted with a smartlock that opens only when the QR code on the bike is scanned by a smartphone with the cycle-sharing app.
 
  
  
 However, every week or ten days, the operators have bikes missing from their roster, which they then have to trace via the app and retrieve. In most of cases, people have simply lifted the bikes and carried them elsewhere, without breaking the lock. However, they are not averse to doing that as well. In at least two such cases, the company executives had to involve the police. Akash Gupta, CEO & Founder of Mobycy, elaborates, “Since all our bikes are connected via GPS to the app, we can track them. Once a person picked up one of our bicycles and carried it on a motorcycle to Faridabad. It was late evening, so we took the police along the next day to retrieve it. There was another case just two weeks ago where a kabaadi near Jharsa Chowk tried to dismantle our bike. When we reached there with the cops, he was in the process of taking it apart.”
 
  
  The company officials say that although their bikes have GPS, sometimes, they’ve even had to involve the police in catching the ‘thief’ (Picture for representational purposes only) 
 
 But it’s not just professional thieves that are causing troubles for the service. Even Gurgaon residents are not far behind when it comes to ‘stealing’ these bikes. An attendant working with the company says, “At times, even residents from good societies simply keep the bikes in their homes. We get to know about it when we see it on the app or if some neighbour alerts us. When we go to the house and confront them, they say that they saw it on the roadside and had kept it in their house for safekeeping. But it happens far too often and the excuse is always the same.” Mobycy employees tell us that such incidents happen even in the better parts and societies of Gurgaon, including places like Sun City, Sushant Lok, and Rail Vihar. “We don’t always involve the police because we do not want to come across as too aggressive,” says Akash.
 
  
  
 The operators say these cases happen because commuters don’t always park the bikes in designated spots. “We have designated some 25 spots across the city, which are public places and you can park the bikes there. But in about 10% of all rides, people leave the bikes at any random spot. This means, that at the end of the day, there are a few dozen bikes at unsafe spots. We send our teams to track them and get them to the nearest parking lot but we can’t cover all of them,” says Akash. It is the ones they miss that end up adorning somebody’s lawn or balcony or at a kabaadi’s shop. Attendants at the bike stands say they are trying to sensitise people and encourage them to park properly. “It is a new concept, so people aren’t used to it. But regular commuters take special care to park properly. It’s the people who take rides for fun that just leave these bikes anywhere,” says an attendant near HUDA City Centre Metro Station.
 
  
 
