CHANDIGARH: The economically weaker section (EWS)   in the city might be delayed again this year with the   yet to get clarity on percentage of seats to be reserved by private schools under land allotment scheme and under the Right to Education Act.

 Department had last week claimed that the issue will be clarified that week but even as submission came to an end on Monday, the situation remained the same as it was in December last year.
 
 When contacted ,the director school education ( ), who was in Delhi for a meeting on Monday told TOI, “It is under active consideration.”
 
 With no clarity from the estate office so far on the percentage of seats to be reserved by the private schools under EWS, and the description of nominal fees, the admissions under the EWS quota is likely to suffer further as dates are expected to be extended further if things are not clarified within a week. This issue has been hanging fire from the past seven years.
 
 On December 5, the education secretary, UT Chandigarh, B L Sharma and Independent Schools Association held a meeting with assistant estate officer   to seek clarity on percentage of seats to be reserved by private minority and non-minority schools in Chandigarh under the land allotment scheme. However, they could arrive to no conclusion.
 
 Thereafter, the education department had written to the estate office asking them to clarify on the percentage of seats. Under Right to Education Act, schools have to reserve 25% seats for EWS students. This 25% is inclusive of seats to be reserved under land allotment scheme. For seats under RTE Act, the education department pays the reimbursement. However, no reimbursement is given for seats reserved under land allotment scheme.
 
 On the other hand private schools have closed the form submission on Monday.
 
 
 
 
 As per the data gathered by the UT education department in the academic year 2018-19, private schools will be offering 710 seats to students from economically weaker section under Right to Education Act in 49 schools.
 
 
 
 The notifications served to the schools under Law of Land 1996, 2001 and 2005 states that the schools have to reserve some percentage of seats for the economically weaker section and disadvantaged groups. The percentage differs for different schools. But in December 2016, the education department fixed it at 15% for all private schools, which did not go down well with the schools.
 
 
