MANGALURU: The fate of 58   contesting in eight assembly segments of   will be decided on Tuesday. 

 The Election Commission is fully prepared with 336 counting officials on its rolls to count votes of Belthangady, Moodbidri, Mangaluru City North,  , Mangaluru, Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia constituencies at Mahatma Gandhi Centenary Higher Primary School and Mahatma Gandhi Centenary Composite PU College at Bondel.
 
 Deputy commissioner S Sasikanth Senthil said the process will begin with the counting of postal ballots received till 8am on Friday. Postal ballots have been sent to 380 service voters and 11,401 government employees. Soon after the counting of postal ballots, EVMs will be brought to the counting halls. Two halls each have been arranged for counting of votes for Belthangady, Moodbidri, Mangaluru City North, Mangaluru, Bantwal and Puttur.
 
 Votes of Mangaluru City South and Sullia will be counted in two separate halls. Each constituency will have 14 tables to count votes and candidates may depute 15 counting agents to monitor the process by submitting Form 18. The whole process of counting will be recorded through CCTV cameras and webcasting facility also has been installed, Senthil said.
 
 Aft er the counting of votes polled in EVMs, one VVPAT machine each from eight constituencies will be picked by drawing lots. The votes polled in the VVPAT will be tallied with that of EVMs. 
 
 Later, the result will be announced after the certificate is signed by the observers and returning officers of the respective constituencies, he said.
 
 While there are 17,11,848 voters in eight assembly segments of   district, 13,29,569 have exercised their franchise recording 77.67% polling. While Sullia constituency has recorded highest turnout with 83.98%, Mangaluru City South registered lowest in the district with 67.46%.
 
  No Vijayotsava 
 
 The DC has warned of strict action against political parties and workers if they are f ound holding any victory celebration. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 will be in place in the district from midnight of Monday to 8pm on Wednesday. Hence, people are not allowed to gather in large number and hold victory procession. Similarly, dry days have been decl ared from 6pm on Monday to midnight of Tuesday. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
