KOLKATA: Excerpts from a purported conversation between the captain of the   and an air traffic control officer at   in Kathmandu minutes before the crash points to the former’s disorientation that left him confused over the two ends of runway. The plane finally approached it from the wrong end, crashlanded and burst into flames.

 But what has left everyone even more perplexed is why the first officer, also known as co-pilot, did not realise the monumental mistake staring at the face and remained a mute spectator leading to the disaster.
 
 “The captain seemed disoriented and went horribly wrong with set operating procedures for approach. It is inconceivable how he decided to land from Runway 20 after making a missed approach from the end Runway 02 that was cleared for landing,” a veteran pilot with an Indian private carrier said.
 
 Another pilot believes part of the problem was the lack of communication between the captain and the first officer. “At each stage of appropach, a captain usually cross-checks the position and height of the aircraft with the first officer and then keeps the aircraft configuration and speed as per the phase of approach. When the captain appeared disoriented, the first officer should have stepped in and corrected him. He did not. It could be due to being years junior and fear of the power gradient in the cockpit,” another pilot said.
 
 An air navigation service official at Kolkata wonders if the cockpit crew was distracted by a snag. “Were they trying to set something right, misjudged the approach the first time and decide to go around? Was the problem so pressing that they
 
 did not then realise the plane was approaching the runway from the wrong end? Once a pilot did approach and land in the wrong runway in Kolkata but it was in the direction of traffic flow, not against it,” he said.
 
 In the taped conversation between the cockpit and   that is doing the rounds on social media, the controller is heard repeatedly warning the pilot not to proceed to Runway 20. He is even warned to stay on hold and not land because there is another aircraft approaching Runway 02. When the plane remained on course to land on Runway 20, the controllers put an army aircraft on hold to allow the   to approach and land on Runway 20. But the captain then said, ‘Cleared to land Runway 02’ when he was in fact approaching to land on Runway 20.
 
 “It’s fortunate that it did not crash into another aircraft on the ground because it went head on into other planes that were landing and taking off,” a controller in Kolkata who had a conversation with his counterpart in Kathmandu said.
 
