NAGPUR: Uneducated wife of a farmer, Janardan Ramaji Bobde, took merely ten minutes to decide to donate the organs of her husband after he was declared brain-dead. This came as a surprise not just to the other family members but also Parv Foundation members who tried to convince her about the importance of donation.

 Even educated families think twice while donating organs.
 
 Of his two kidneys, one was kept by Wockhardt hospital and given to a 50-year-old man. The patient was in Delhi and immediately travelled to Nagpur for the surgery. The other kidney went to a patient at Orange City Hospital and Research Institute. Two corneas went to Mahatme Eye Bank.
 
 The donor’s heart went to Fortis Hospital in Chennai. Dr Mohan and Dr Jagdeesh from the hospital harvested the heart and took it by a charter flight. The liver went to MGM hospital at Aurangabad, also through a chartered flight, where Dr Hunaid and Dr Prasantha Rao had come to retrieve the organ.
 
 Bobde, a resident of Kinhala village at Samadrapur tehsil in   district, met with an accident on February 14 when a stray pig hit his bike. “While we were debating about the rituals, my mother was spontaneous in deciding. She said what is the harm in donating if the organs give life to so many persons,” said Bobde’s son Sachin.
 
 Vijay Singh Mohta from the same village, who has been promoting organ donation, also convinced the family.
 
 The patient was brought to Wockhardt Hospital in the city from Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences in Sewagram. From there he was brought to Neuron hospital where he was declared brain-dead and shifted to Wockhardt. Here, transplant coordinators   and Veena Wathore also convinced the family to donate organs and were pleasantly surprised when they came to know that the members had already made up their mind.
 
 Lungs go ‘waste’
 
 Dr   and Dr Ravi Wankhede, president and secretary of the Zonal Transplant Coordination committee, tried hard that the lungs could also be sent to the allotted hospital in Chennai. But since the lungs must be transplanted within four hours of retrieval, which could not be possible due to different reasons, they were not harvested. 
 
 This is second time that the lungs were wasted. But the   officials say they tried their best. Some delay in coordination at the NOTTO (National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation) and state-level probably delayed the procedure.
 
 
