VISAKHAPATNAM: Day 2 of the CII-Partnership Summit 2018 saw   chief minister N Chandrababu   shower the state and its people with a host of promises — cutting-edge technology to drive real time governance, a paperless office from March and no further rise in cost of electricity, among many others.

 “Using technology, I can now monitor everything — groundwater levels, rainfall, street lights, temperature, air quality etc. I have not seen any other government where this is being done. We want to use technology for the overall benefit of people,” Naidu said, on a day his government signed a staggering 364 Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) with national and international companies worth Rs 2.19 lakh crore. Collectively, the projects promise to create 3.84 lakh jobs in  .
 
 The proposed investments are spread across sectors such as food processing, energy, defence and aerospace, textiles and IT. Elaborating on his government’s move to the online space, Naidu said his offices will soon become paperless. “By March, we plan to become paperless offices,” the chief minister said while addressing a session on ‘Technologies for Tomorrow’. 
 
 “My idea is very clear; every citizen will have a fibre connection. If any citizen has any problem, she can get it sorted out with a single call,” the chief minister added.
 
 Later in the day, as the chief minister promoted the use of clean energy and need for innovation in the sector, he said he would ensure that the cost of electricity in the state does not see a further rise in the future. “I am announcing this now. There is no state that has done anything like this so far,” Naidu said. 
 
 Addressing a plenary session on ‘Ease of Doing Business’, Naidu said his government was working to enhance AP’s ranking to a distinct number 1 position. The state shared the top spot in the World Bank’s EoDB ranking among Indian states with its sister state Telangana in 2016. But AP slipped to 14th position in 2017, while Telangana retained its top spot in the rankings.
 
 Naidu said his government was introducing sophisticated information technology solutions to make it easier for enterprises to set up their businesses in the state. He said his aim is to benchmark the state against the top 20 investment destinations in the world, particularly those in the advanced economies.
 
 However, while Naidu waxed eloquent on his singular quest to make Andhra Pradesh the go-to destination for investments, he chose not to mention a time frame for when the top ranking would come about, and how such ranking will impact investment in the state.
 
 
