SLUG: Naregaon-Mandki

 CLEARED SKHER 
 
 Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) would have to prepare a separate detailed project report (DPR) to carry out scientific processing of about 10 lakh tonne of garbage at Naregaon-Mandki dumping yard. 
 
 The work would require Rs 50 crore and according to the high court order, the civic body and the government would have to complete the process within a year, said district collector Naval Kishor Ram, who is handling additional charge of municipal commissioner. 
 
 He was replying to the queries raised by the corpprators at the general body meeting on Monday as the garbage crisis has entered 30th day. 
 
 Ram pointed out that the civic body could not come up with an alternative for disposal of garbage rather than dumping it in the last 22 days. However, the government has sanctioned the Rs 86 crore DPR as a long-term measure to the problem for which the administration would require public cooperation. 
 
 Collector said that people should come forward and help the civic body to compost the wet garbage and dispose of the remaining dry waste in an appropriate manner at the ward level itself.
 
 As soon as the meeting began, corporators cutting across party lines sought the administration’s clarification as to what it has been done for the last 30 days to address the crisis. 
 
 Replying to their queries, Ram said that the 2003 court order related to Naregaon-Mandki garbage yard was not followed and the high court has recently asked the chief secretary to institute an inquiry into this lapse. The secretary would have to submit the report within three months, he said.
 
 He told the corporators that he has been visiting various wards after taking charge, but realised that residents were not allowing the civic body to dig pits and compost the waste. “We have so far identified 102 spots where composting could be done. In the next seven days, the corporation will reach out to the people to reason with them to allow the civic body to scientifically dispose of the garbage and to avoid spread of epidemics,” he said. 
 
 He said the Class I officers of the civic body would be given zone-wise responsibility to ensure that situation returns to normalcy. He also asserted that those found negligent in their responsibilities would immediately be suspended. 
 
 
