NAGPUR: People under constant threat from tiger attacks in the North opt to wear a two-faced mask hoping to trick the cats.   (45), of Ralegaon tehsil in Yavatmal district, has further innovated and prepared a unique gear for protection. 

 Atram, a resident of the obscure   village where a tiger had mauled Sonabai Bhosle (60) on June 1, 2016, is a shepherd and ekes out a living by grazing village cattle in forest areas. “I have come across tigers in the forest many times. Last year, when a tiger preyed on a cow from my herd, I had to climb up a tree. Being vulnerable to attacks, I did some jugad and created an armour,” he said. 
 
  
  
 
 Atram bought a second-hand helmet from the market and prepared a neck and waist belt with the help of galvanized iron sheets and put a barbed wire mesh around the legs. He claims to have assembled it in his house.
 
  
  
 
 “The neck belt has been crafted with a thick cloth inside and, has nut-bolts outside and a lock. The waist cover is also locked so that it doesn’t open up. The barbed wires in the legs are prickly and I wear them on random occasions only,” says Atram who himself has never had to tackle a tiger head-on.
 
  
  
 
 Most of the 10 victims that died were attacked from the rear and bitten on the neck. “Hence, I went for a helmet, neck and waist belts. In case of a possible attack, I will be able to at least raise an alarm,” said Atram.
 
  
  
 
 Atram wears the armour when he enters the forest which is a kilometre away from Borati. While many villagers have stopped stepping out alone and move in groups, marginal farmer Atram dares them with his armour.
 
  
  
 
 “I’m the sole breadwinner of the family of four (wife, a son and two daughters). I have no option but to move in the forest to graze livestock. Yavatmal is already known for farmer suicides due to bad crop situation. Either way I’m in a dilemma,” he quips.
 
 “Whether it will help Atram or not will depend on his face-off with wild animals, but it certainly boosts his courage,” said Gajanan Bhongade, a petty contractor from Borati, who was the first to ask Atram to create a contraption. “After wearing the armour, he has sighted the tiger once,” said  , tutor of Atram’s children. 
 
 Tigers have killed 10 people in 11 villages in the last 20 months in Ralegaon forcing the state forest department to issue shoot orders following public resentment. The tigers have dispersed from   which is about 30 kms from these villages.
 
 Pandharkawda deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) KM Abharna disapproved people venturing deep into the forest. “It’s a very dicey thing as tiger behaviour cannot be predicted. Both, humans and tiger should coexist. In months to come we will implement Dr Shayamaprasad Mukherjee Jan Van Vikas Scheme to shed biotic dependence of people on forest,” said Abharna. 
 
 
