MUMBAI: Municipal employees are protesting against a new   attendance system as they can no longer come to work late and leave early, senior   officials said. Civic unions have criticised the system after many employees complained their salaries were docked as they failed to punch in regular working hours.

 “The biometric system has helped us keep a close check on errant employees,’’ said a civic official. A recent survey found that almost 30,000 of the over one lakh BMC staffers reported late to work.
 
 The system that started last year created a furore in the civic body recently after over 10,000 employees received pay cuts as BMC started linking biometrics to salaries. This was because duty hours of staffers did not match with the time they reported to work and left. “So far we have been very lenient, but it was time to instil accountability,’’ he said.
 
 For the over one lakh employees at the civic headquarters, 24 ward offices and many other peripheral offices of BMC,   is linked to biometrics. Only those posted at water filtration plants and water supply sources are exempted.
 
 Once BMC hooked up all departments last year, it linked attendance to employees’ salaries too. That’s when trouble started brewing as many engineers who have outdoor duties cribbed that it was not feasible to report at a particular time when they have field jobs.
 
 The administration said resistance to the system was no excuse as they have only made the manual muster electronic.
 
 “In fact, there are several benefits of the biometric system in helping us ascertain at what time employees report and leave. We recently ascertained how 30,000 employees reported late,” said Sudhir Naik, deputy municipal commissioner, general administration department. He added that they too want to ensure all get entire salaries on time but they want it to be systematic. “The biometrics will ensure there is a system. We are willing to hear employees’ grievances,” he said.
 
 The   is planning a protest on Friday. “We are all for biometrics but there should be a grace period as many staff come from far-off areas like Vasai and Virar, and often cannot reach on time,” said Sainath Rajdhyaksha of Brihan Mumbai Municipal Engineering Union. The union is also demanding a straight eight-hour duty instead of a break in between.
 
 
