Trichy: Individuals from various walk of life have joined hands with government departments for restoring the over 1,000-year-old Uyyakondan canal passing through the city bearing its pollution burden. A forum called ‘Citizens for Uyyakondan’ was floated by people from various walk of life for this purpose.  As a preliminary move to prevent further pollution of the canal, sign boards conveying the history and benefits of the canal have been erected along the banks. This is intended to instil a behavioural change among the public and prevent people from polluting what was originally a freshwater body. The citizen group comprises medical professionals, students, social workers and architects. The revival plan will infuse fresh life into the 87-km-long Uyyakondan canal which also includes the 8.4-km-long stretch within the city. The city segment is touted as a man-made wonder aimed at benefiting at least 33,000 acres of cultivable lands in Trichy and Thanjavur districts after departing from Cauvery near Pettavaithalai.  As part of the revival mission, the stretch passing through the city has been divided into six zones. The group has already swung into field work and compiled the history of the canal from noted historians in the city. Excerpts from this have been displayed at public spots for the benefit of local people. The group believes that conveying the history of the mighty canal would help bring about behavioural changes in people so as to endear them to the waterbody. Seven sign boards sponsored by Trichy Corporation have been established for this purpose along Anna Nagar link road. “As short terms results are difficult to achieve, we have planned to rope in like-minded people to clean Uyyakondan every weekend. The restoration of the canal will take some time but it is possible when public and government bodies work closely by identifying the need and addressing it,” Dr K Narasimha Rao, member of Citizens for Uyyakondan, told TOI.  The citizens group said that Trichy corporation had promised to provide administrative support for the cleaning activities planned till May. Students attached to Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI) had already done a mapping work tracing the flow of Uyyakondan including the most polluted parts for which solutions would be discussed and implemented, Narasimha Rao added. Commenting on the developments, Corporation Commissioner N Ravichandran said that the underground drainage system would be expedited in parts of the city which were not covered to prevent sullage merging with Uyyakondan. “We have identified spots where sullage is mixing with Uyyakondan and such spots would be plugged by the civic body. Restoring Uyyakondan is one among our priorities,” the commissioner said.