NAGPUR: A thirty-year-old alleged molester, identified as  , would pose as a doctor promising help to women accompanying patients at   ( ) and in turn demand sex with them. His acts were caught by closed circuit television cameras (CCTV) installed on the premises and led to his arrest on Friday.

 Wankhede, resident of Jalgaon, had earlier been booked for theft at GMCH last year. 
 
 Citing CCTV footages, sources claimed that Wankhede had approached the women at different wards of GMCH on April 29 and April 31 and also on May 1 and May 5.
 
 The  , agency managing security at GMCH, circulated a CCTV grab of Wankhede’s image. On Thursday, an alert guard spotted Wankhede looking for preys near ward no 4.
 
 The agency handed over Wankhede to the Ajni police for further action. Police said Wankhede tried to mislead them by furnishing a GMCH receipt dated April 27 while claiming that he had visited the hospital to meet his ailing girlfriend.
 
 Sources said Wankhede would always try to cover his face near the CCTV cameras hinting that he knew their positions. The unhindered access he had to the wards also raises doubts that he was close to some insider.
 
 Sources from GMCH stated that Wankhede was caught by the state security agency in October last year after a dramatic chase. Sources said Wankhede had jumped from the first floor while trying to flee with substantial cash from a woman after promising to bring blood for her patients. Sources said several aphrodisiac pills and sprays were found in his possession.
 
 In the latest modus operandi, Wankhede mostly targeted women accompanying patients at ward no. 31 on the first floor. Wankhede would summon the women to the staircase near ward no. 47 where he would make his indecent proposal. 
 
 On May 5, he approached a woman whose husband is suffering from cancer. He convinced her to accompany him to the staircase where he initially promised to get her husband shifted to a private hospital and get the treatment sponsored through government health scheme. 
 
 He then started making obscene demands following which the stunned women fled the place and alerted a nurse who informed the security agency. 
 
 Wankhede was booked on the basis of the complaint lodged by the woman he had approached on May 5. 
 
 
