AHMEDABAD: At a time when the state is staring at a major water crisis with depleting water levels in Narmada, two city clubs -   and   - have decided to organise dry Holi celebrations on their premises. The decision came soon after   (AMC) appealed to the citizens not to waste water for playing Holi and instead play and 'tilak' Holi. 

 Jayesh Modi, president, Karnavati Club, said, "  is staring at a major water crisis. At such a time, it is not wise to waste water. We have therefore decided to call off the Holi celebrations which use to take place at our club every year. Members will make their plans individually."
 
 Rajpath Club, has also called off Dhuleti celebrations at the club premises. "We draw water from our own bore-well. However, amid water crisis situation, we have decided to call off Dhuleti celebrations. Other activities at the club will continue as usual," said Jagdish Patel, president of the club.
 
 In fact, the clubs have also decided to refund the money to those who have specifically purchased passes and have notified them as well. At the same time, some other clubs have decided to go ahead with Holi-Dhuleti parties, albeit, the dry way! 
 
 Manish Gandhi, media advisor, Club O7, said, "We are expecting some 300 members along with their families and guests for the Holi celebration organized at our club. However, we will only encourage dry holi and ensure that water is not wasted while celebrating."
 
 Encouraging denizens to play waterless Holi, Mukesh Kumar, municipal commissioner, said, "We request everyone to play dry Holi and not waste water. 
 
 At the same time, we have appealed to the clubs to stop wastage of water and have a symbolic celebration. We have also received confirmation from some of the clubs regarding this."
 
 Some of the banquet halls that had planned Holi parties with rain dance have also decided to cancel their programme. 
 
 "Due to the appeal from AMC to save water, the programme of rain dance and Dhuleti celebration at our hotel has been cancelled," stated a message circulated by   and Banquets to their guests.
 
 
