PUNE: Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd ( ) bus, which met with an accident on April 6 due to brake failure, had the hand brake but not the lever required to operate it, an investigation by the transport body has found.

 Further, the investigation established that the accident occurred as the brakes “failed” suddenly due to loss of air pressure. But the transport body has put the blame on the driver for not checking the air meter.
 
 “The bus has been thoroughly checked and the version of the driver that the bus suffered a brake failure has been investigated. It has been found that bus had the hand brake but not the lever required to operate it. However, there was no problem with the brakes. The investigation report said that the air pressure of brakes decreased suddenly, making them non-functional. It is due to the negligence of the driver that he failed to check the air pressure meter located right in front of him,” PMPML’s public relations officer   said.
 
 The accident occurred in the morning at a slope located on Dehu Road. Altogether five persons were injured in the accident after the bus hit a number of vehciles. 
 
 “The driver had stopped the bus in a traffic jam before starting again along the route. While doing so he should have checked the air pressure meter to see if the pressure was low or fine,” the official said.
 
 Both commuters and activists have, however, raised doubts over the transport utility’s version.
 
 “How can the authorities put the blame on the driver and wash their hands off the matter? If the air pressure had dropped suddenly then there was certainly some problem with the vehicle. And it is the job of the mechanics and engineers to ensure that the vehicle braking system is intact. How can they not look into the fact that those responsible for maintenance are at fault? A PMPML bus driver is busy throughout the day driving, stopping at signals and bus stops,”  , secretary of  , said.
 
 Commuters also agreed with him. “Bus fires and accidents have become common and frequent these days. The recent accident involving a PMPML bus is a clear example of improper maintenance. It is unfortunate that the authorities are trying to shift the blame on the driver,”  , a commuter said.
 
 
