Coimbatore: The Sulur town panchayat blatantly disregarded the soil test report prepared by an expert team from the Government College of Technology that recommended the change of site for the proposed bus stand at Sulur. Based on the tests from soil samples collected from the bus stand site in Sulur, the report sent on January 30 said that the chosen site was not ideal for the structure. “It is preferable to change the site or to go in for necessary ground improvement techniques, which may be adopted with the help of external agencies before further construction activities in the specified bus stand area,” said the report. TOI has accessed a copy of the soil test report. But the town panchayat officials ignored soil test report and went ahead with the construction, refusing to do the ground improvement work. The bus stand contractor, meanwhile, said he was not even informed about the soil test report.  Officials, however insisted that it was the ideal location for the bus stand. “We did not disregard the soil test report. We were taking all precautions at all stage,” said executive officer of Sulur panchayat, K Dhansekaran. “We are doing more soil tests at every level of construction. We will use techniques that will ensure safety,” he said. In November, 2017, the geotechnical division of the department of civil engineering of Government College of Technology had dug up two trial pits and found that it was red soil. Later, they collected soil samples from five other locations to assess its bearing capacity. Then a borehole soil investigation was also carried out in three locations where bore holes ranging between six and eight metres were dug out. As per the report, in all these samples, they found the soil profile to be blackish filled with paper waste for upto 8m depth. The bearing capacity was inconsistent and hard strata was not found even below 8-metre depth and due to water loss, they could not penetrate below 8m depth, the report said. But, the district administration officials did not inform the contractor about this. As the workers of the contractor - Banu Constructions - began digging up the land for laying foundation, water oozed out and the paper and plastic waste surfaced, revealing that it was a dump site. Also, they were later informed that the site was a stone quarry and water could be found below 30-70feet depth. A representative of the contractor told TOI that they were not aware of the situation. “We just started digging. We have not started work on the bus stand yet. At every stage, we revise estimates and work as per the ground area because soil test reports are not always conclusive. We will dewater and ensure that concrete is pumped in and techniques are employees that will ensure the bus stand is safe,” he said. Meanwhile, social activists questioned the authorities stating if water had not oozed out and they had not questioned, they would have gone ahead with the construction. “When the report had mentioned about the bad soil condition, why did they not inform the contractor? This negligence cannot be accepted. We want the officials to make all reports public because we do not want another Somanur tragedy,” said activist K Ramamoorthy.