NAGPUR: One could see the disappointment on the faces of   and Sanjay Ramaswamy as they took the long walk back to the pavilion. The Jamtha wicket was perfect for strokeplay. The Rest of India pacers were hardly getting any movement, and the spinners were not getting any purchase.

 
 Both Faiz (89; 190b, 6x4, 1x6) and Sanjay (53; 111b, 6x4, 1x6) were batting fluently and looked set to reach the three-figure mark before casual shots led their downfall.   (113; 166b, 16x4, 1x6), however, showed the duo how it is done. The former India opener, who turned 40 last month, batted with great composure and elegance on the way to his 53rd first-class hundred. His third Irani Trophy hundred took Vidarbha to 289-2 at stumps on Day 1.
 
 Everything went Vidarbha’s way on Wednesday. First, Faiz won an important toss and chose to bat on a placid strip. They safely negotiated the new ball, sent even some good balls to the boundaries and put pressure on the spinners. Faiz had a 101-run opening stand with R Sanjay, their fourth century stand of the season. With the new ball nicely coming on to the bat, Rest of India skipper Karun Nair brought on Ravichandran Ashwin in just the eighth over. Faiz immediately put him under pressure with a paddle sweep.
 
 Sanjay was the aggressor and hit some glorious shots on both sides, none better than a backfoot punch off Navdeep Saini. He also launched Nadeem over long off for a six. Faiz too played some delightful shots.
 
 Ravichandran Ashwin bowled an extended first spell and Jayant Yadav was brought on just before the lunch. Yadav struck on his second ball as Sanjay played an uppish drive straight to short mid-wicket at the stroke of lunch. Sanjay’s dismissal brought in Jaffer to the middle. The Mumbaikar started off with a fluent off drive to off-spinner Yadav and never looked back. Faiz, who had already completed his fifty, opted to play the supporting role.
 
 The innings was vintage Jaffer. He was moving well in the crease and timing the ball exceptionally well. He was cautious against Ashwin but came hard at Yadav and left-arm spinner  , who bowled slightly quicker in the air. Whenever the two came on, Jaffer and Faiz attacked.
 
 Except for Ashwin, who bowled a brilliant spell in the post-tea session, none of the Rest of India bowlers troubled Vidarbha. Ashwin could have had Sanjay’s wicket when he caught the batsman plumb in front but was denied. However, he earned Faiz’s wicket with some crafty bowling. Coming around the wicket, he repeatedly troubled the Vidarbha skipper. Faiz tried to sweep him uppishly but only succeeded in hitting straight to Saini at short fine leg.
 
 Jaffer and Faiz had 117-run second wicket stand. An edgy shot took him to the nineties, a trademark on drive off Siddharth Kaul took him to 99 and another outside edge brought the second ton of the season.
 
