VARANASI: Five Ganga basin states including Uttarakhand, UP, Bihar, Jharkhand and   are observing ' ' (Ganga cleanliness fortnight) from March 16 to 31 as a part of   initiative to invite everyone to come together and contribute towards keeping river Ganga clean. 

 But in Varanasi, which witnessed a mega show of 'Ganga Darshan' by the French President Emmanuel Macron with the Prime Minister   just four days back on March 12, it remained a low-key affair on the inaugural day as no major activities were seen on Friday. 
 
 However, the twitter handle of Namami Gange has come up with a PM's message -"We will not let Ganga remain dirty", and a poster that reads: #GangaSwachhtaPakhwada is being organized from 16th-31st March, 2018. Let's come together to ensure a better tomorrow for our national river. #NamamiGange #GangaResolution2018.
 
 The Ganga cleanliness fortnight is being organised by the Ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation with a tagline -'Ganga Unites India. It's time we unite for HER'. The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has planned awareness and action activities like 'shram daan', door-to-door campaign, Ganga chaupal, exhibition, school level competitions, public meetings, pad yatra, rallies, pledge campaign, etc during the fortnight. But, nothing remarkable was seen in the PM's constituency. The local authorities avoided to respond on the matter.
 
 With the tireless efforts of the administrative machinery the surface water of Ganga as well as the stretch of riverfront from Assi Ghat to Dashashwamedh Ghat wore a splendid look during the boat ride by the visiting French guest and the PM. They were seen overwhelmed with the scenic beauty of the majestic ghats along the crescent shape flowing Ganga.
 
 "But, things returned to old fashion soon after their departure from the city. The discharge of municipal sewage into Ganga through various drains, which were concealed by big posters and banners during their visit, continues to go uninterrupted," said former   Ajay Rai questioning the execution of Namami Gange programme for which the Central government has allocated Rs 20,000 crore. "Nothing concrete has been done for the conservation and cleaning of Ganga, which is getting more polluted every passing day," alleged Rai, who had challenged PM in 2014 Lok Sabha election.
 
 However, general manager of Ganga Pollution Control Unit of UP Jal Nigam SK Rai said that the discharge of untreated sewage into the river would end after the commissioning of two sewage treatment plants (STPs) at Dinapur and Goithaha. "Both the STPs with a total capacity of 260 MLD will be functional by May," Rai told TOI.
 
 
