While on a recent trip with his ‘chunk bros’ to Hong Kong, actor-host   took out something from his bag that stunned his friends — a  !

  “Are you seriously going to wear it in Hong Kong?” they asked, and he asked, ‘Why not?’ As he stepped out of his hostel for the “crazy, unplanned journey”, he wore the orange-bordered brick-coloured mundu, pairing it up with a T-shirt. “Everywhere we went, people couldn’t help checking it out and some even took pictures with me. ‘You want to be a celebrity everywhere you go?’ my friends couldn’t help asking.” An added bonus was the social media also lapping up his tourist-in-a-mundu look!
 
 What prompted him to wear the one-piece-wonder? “Sometime back, I happened to fly from Malaysia to India wearing a mundu. I was returning after shooting for the show Dare The Fear, which has a style-heavy costume, and wanted to stay relaxed in something simple. On that day in the flight too, people checked me out quite a bit. Alongside the attention, I liked how comfortable it felt, while travelling. But that’s not the only reason,” GP says. “Whenever we travel abroad, we can see travellers wearing their native costumes in other countries too, making us wonder where they are from. Why not give our mundu too some international attention? That’s what I wanted to do!”
 
 Gone are the days Mallu boys relied solely on those jeans, shorts and boxers. After a prolonged period of being solely the costume for Kerala functions, the mundu is making a marvellous comeback as a style statement, thanks to a slew of recent movies and also the fashion industry that piggybacked on it.   in red, green, dark orange and more shades, alongside the age-old kaavi mundu, the Sabarimala-style karuppu mundu, swanky cotton dhoti and   are ruling our bros’ wardrobes now, and even as the costume for occasions ranging from weddings to trips!
 
 Binod Krishna, an HR professional in Kochi, says, “A few months ago, my team happened to organise an event at office and as organisers, we wanted to stand out. First, we thought we will wear the traditional white mundu. But later, we felt why not try something different and opted for a red mundu. We got great feedback.” But guess what he did next. “Some time later, I went on a trip to Goa with a group of friends and we wanted to do something quirky. All of us teamed up the red mundu with white and black shirts, went to the airport (laughs). We were the cynosure of all eyes. Some people came up to us and asked if we were part of some musical band,” he recalls.
 
 The youngster says that even otherwise, mundu has become a preferred costume to chill out with friends, while driving and more. “More colours like red, blue, green and grey are available now unlike in the past. So, it’s great to stay both comfortable and fashionable at the same time,” says Binod.
 For his relative’s recent engagement, Shinu P J, who runs a security agency in Kochi, got all his 10 cousins to wear an Aadu 2 style double-sided mundu with white shirt. “Is there a better way to show our unity and brotherhood? The mundu gave us the kind of attention we craved at the event and became a great conversation-starter too,” he says.
 
 The garment is mostly being chosen for the kind of showmanship and respect it offers, says fashion expert Muhammed Lukman. “If the right style of mundu is worn at the occasions that suit them, there isn’t anything else that can match its elegance or garner as much of respect, for a Malayali man. The reason why it’s enjoying the popularity of late is all thanks to the influence of trends triggered by movies. Moreover, it’s the season’s best option too.” But how long he thinks this trend will sustain? “This is likely to stay for long. In Kerala, anything to do with mundu has enough reasons to remain fashionable, round the year.” 
 
