NEW DELHI: The   has embarked on a major modernisation drive with a kitty of Rs 18 crore to spend on setting up six state-of-the-art cyber forensic laboratories and a master server in Delhi that will be connected with all the zonal offices across the country for digitally storing records and evidence gathered during searches. 

  ED's modernisation is in an advanced stage and likely to be completed within this year with six cyber laboratories - two in Delhi and one each in Mumbai, Kolkata, Chandigarh and Chennai - already set up and servers installed at several offices. This would help the agency in carrying out forensic examination of evidences through these laboratories within a week instead of waiting years for the central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) to authenticate its reports. 
 
  "It took two years for reports to come from CFSL, now forensic examination reports can be completed within a week at our own cyber labs," a top ED official told TOI. This has given ED an in-house expertise to decode and authenticate seized records resulting in faster investigation.
 
 
  
  
 
 Driving the modernisation in ED is its director Karnal Singh who, as the head of the special cell in Delhi Police earlier, had busted several international terror networks and drug syndicates.
 
 A senior IPS officer, Singh, in the two years after taking charge, has brought in several senior IPS officers in its ranks and revitalised the functioning of the agency. The anti-money laundering agency has expanded from when it used to be a small organisation of about 500 officials to a current sanctioned strength of more than 2,000. It has added at least 450 officials in senior ranks alone, starting from enforcement officers and assistant directors.
 
  As a result of this expansion, just over a period of last one year, the ED has managed to register more than 3,500 cases under the   Management Act and another 200 under the Prevention of   Act, many of them sensitive money laundering probes initiated against high-profile industrialists, politicians and their children. The agency has attached properties worth over Rs 17,000 crore in the last two years belonging to many of these high-profile targets under the anti-money laundering act. 
 
 
