Nagpur: The special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court on Thursday, adjourned hearing on the latest charge sheet in irrigation scam till Monday. Seventh district judge A C Raut directed the prosecution to file a detail note on their say on bail applications filed by the accused from the RJ Shah and Company Limited and D Thakker Constructions Private Limited (Joint Venture). Earlier, district government pleader Nitin Telgote opposed their bail pleas contending they hadn’t surrendered till date. He stressed on arrest of all six of them stating that it was necessary for further investigations into the alleged inflation of Rs2.79 crore in tail branch canal of Mokhabardi Lift Irrigation Scheme (LIS). Senior counsel Anil Mardikar appearing for the accused informed that they had already granted protection by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against taking any coercive action for about a month from filing of charge-sheet.  The bail applications were filed by sisters — Kalindi and Tejaswini Shah from RJ Shah Constructions, along with brothers Vishal and Jigar Thakker, their father pravin, and director Arun Kumar Gupta. Among them Jigar was present during the hearing. An FIR in this regard was registered on March 3, 2016 related to tenders awarded to JV for Mokhabardi LIS, a part of Gosikhurd project. The ACB then filed 4,457 pages charge-sheet on Tuesday before the special court naming the accused persons for violating the rules and adopting unfair means to bag the Rs56.57 crore contract. The charge-sheet also named officials from Vidarbha Irrigation development corporation (VIDC), including executive engineer Umashankar Parvate, divisional accounts officer Chandan Jibhkate, chief engineer Sopan Suryawanshi, executive director Devendra Shirke, and superintendent engineer Dilip Pohekar. Of them, only Parvate filed an application for grant of bail with the special court. The ACB charged accused persons of inflating tenders by adding Rs2.79 crore for providing amenities to labourers quoting Central Water Commission (CWC). norms They were booked for offences under Sections 13 (1) (C), (D) and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and Sections 420 read with 34 of IPC, 467, 468, 471, 109 and 120 (B) of IPC. They were further charged with publishing advertisements for inviting tenders even before getting technical approval from chief engineer. It was alleged that there was no noting of contractor firms purchasing the tender forms, neither cheques given by them were deposited into VIDC’s accounts. The VIDC officials awarded them tender at 40%-60% reduced cost and also ignored the fact that both firms were ineligible for bagging the contract. The officials also failed to properly scrutinize the documents related to the prior experience, the charge-sheet mentioned.