KOLKATA: Several issues regarding the pushing back of commissioning schedules of   are likely to come up when Ashwani Lohani, chairman, Railway Board (CRB) reviews them on March 5.

 
 Delays in the East-West Metro corridor, Phase-I of which was to be commissioned in June this year, will also be discussed during his visit.
 
 “He will carry out inspections and hold meetings with Metro Railway officials. All ongoing Metro projects in Kolkata, including the  , are being closely monitored by the   (PMO). After all, these are the only Metro projects in the country that are under the Ministry of Railways and there is a lot of pressure on their timely commissioning at a time when similar projects in other cities that are not under the railways, are progressing fast,” a Railway Board official said.
 
 It had earlier been announced that the stretch of E-W Corridor between Salt Lake Sector-V and Sealdah would be commissioned in June, 2018. Later, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (KMRCL) officials cited technical reasons and announced that the stretch, which is to be commissioned in June, would be between Salt Lake Sector-V and Phoolbagan (the station before Sealdah from the Salt Lake-end). More recently, it was clarified that commissioning of the link up to Phoolbagan will not be possible this year. Only the stretch between Salt Lake Sector-V and Salt Lake Stadium will be commissioned but not in June.
 
 “We shall be commissioning this stretch before Pujas this year,” said Metro Railway  . While KMRCL is in charge of implementing the E-W Corridor, Metro Railway is in overall charge and will ultimately take over operations.
 
 Lohani, known to be a hard taskmaster, will also be taking up the four other Metro projects that are under various stages of completion. The stretches that are likely to be completed and along which commercial services are likely to start by June, 2019, are the Noapara-Dakshineswar and Noapara-Jessore Road ones. These projects would have been completed by now had land hurdles not held them up. Even the first 5-km stretch of the Kavi Subhash-Airport (via Rajarhat) link between Kavi Subhash and Ruby crossing got delayed. Metro now plans to commission it by the Pujas in 2019. Apart from land hurdles, officials blame issues such as finalizing of systems to be supplied by other companies for the delays.
 
 “During the CRB’s visit, other issues such as the existing fare structure for the North-South corridor and the proposed one for the E-W Corridor will be discussed. Metro Railway has already sought a revision of existing fares and it the structure for the E-W Corridor will be higher,” another official in Kolkata said.
 
