KOCHI: Hectic lifestyle and lack of time to visit a doctor are forcing more number of people in urban areas of   to choose self-medication when compared to those living in rural areas. A majority prefer self-medication for aches and pain, fever and even chronic diseases and stop it as soon as the symptoms disappear. 

 A study conducted in urban and rural areas of the district to check prevalence and practice of self-medication, showed that 21.5% had practiced it in the past three months. The results of the study was published in the Indian Journal of Community Health.
 
 "All the studies on self-medication practices among medical students and allied professionals show higher prevalence rates. The low prevalence of self-medication here could be due to the strong primary health care system and universal literacy. The prevalence of self-medication was higher in urban areas and urban slums compared to rural areas," said Dr   P S, assistant professor, department of community medicine,   and one of the authors of the study.
 
 As many as 539 people were interviewed and their drug consumption pattern over three months was studied. While 25% of the participants were aged below 18, 19% were aged over 60. The male-female ratio was equally divided and 58% of the respondents were above poverty line ( ).
 
 In the study, 22% reported that they practised self-medication with around 7% using antibiotics. While 29% took self-medication for aches and pain, 23% took it for fever and 14% for chronic diseases.
 
 Self-medication here included consumption of medicines to treat disorders diagnosed by self without consulting a medical practitioner. It also included use of retention drugs, reuse of prescription drugs or the direct purchase of drugs which are not over-the-counter (OTC) drugs, without medical consultation.
 
 When the respondents were asked about the basis of selection of drugs for self-medication, majority (40%) said that it was based on previous doctor's prescription. Around 76% respondents purchased the drugs from community pharmacies. To know about the dosage of the drug that they would require, majority consulted a pharmacist, while about 32% depended on previous experience.
 
 Incidentally, almost 88% of them stopped self-medicated drugs soon after symptoms disappeared. Around 11% reported adverse effects attributed to the drugs.
 
 
