KOCHI: The public will now no longer have to wait in the corridors of the   for getting birth or death certificates. As part of the corporation’s  , applicants can now fill the form and get the certificates issued online.

 Though the corporation had started working on the egovernance programme almost a decade ago, it couldn’t complete it due to various reasons. Change in service providers and the technical glitches that followed were among them.
 
 “The facility to get the birth and death certificates issued online had been defunct due to technical problems. So, the applicants had to come over to the corporation office to get them. A couple of days ago, the   server, which has been implementing the e-governance project, developed some technical snags. When we rectified it, we were also able to introduce the facility to get birth and death certificates issued online,” said Prasad P R, registrar, birth and death, Kochi Corporation.
 
 The delay in getting the birth and death certificates had been causing difficulties for the public. “A couple of days ago, a women from Thrissur came to the corporation office along with her two kids. She had to wait in the corporation office for more than four hours,” said P S Prakash, councillor from Moolankuzhy.
 
 Officials with the corporation said they have given strict instructions to avoid unnecessary delay in the issuance of certificates. “In the death and birth registration wing, we have started weekly review of the activities we carried out. Some of the government departments would require certificates with seal and signature of the corporation’s registrar. Such applicants will have to come down to the office. We have given special instructions that those from distant places should be given priority and the certificates should be issued to them on the same day of applying. In case of any delay, we would sent the certificate through post,” he said.
 
 “Those filing online application should visit the corporation’s website. If the applicant visits the local self-government department’s website, they may face difficulties. Websites of all other local bodies were developed by the   while that of the corporation was developed by TCS. So, if applicants visits LSGD website for the certificates from the corporation, they will be informed that the service is not available. We will soon give a request to the   to redirect the applicants who visit its site to the corporation’s site,” he said.
 
