BHOPAL: Sheer presence of mind saved a college student from her tormentors. Two drunken youths had barged into the house of a 19-year-old girl in Habibganj locality and started behaving inappropriately with her on Wednesday evening. The girl, who had earlier installed the ‘WSafety’ app, launched by city   on November 13, acted with alacrity. She immediately opened the application and pressed the ‘danger’ button on her mobile screen. Within ten minutes a Dial 100 vehicle reached the spot and nabbed both the accused.

 
 CSP Habibganj   said that the girl is a resident of a multi-storied complex near 6 number stop, and is pursuing her BCom second year at a government girl’s college. Her father is a clerk in a government office. She told police that the incident took place at around 5 pm she was in the house along with her mother, sisters and younger brother.
 
 The two accused, identified as Deepak alias   Jaiswal, (22), and his friend  , (20), started banging the doors of her house. Initially, she ignored them since Tanveer was stalking her for the past one year. But when they started hurling abuses on her mother, she opened the door and objected. Once she opened the door, the accused entered her house and started misbehaving. When her family members intervened, they hurled more abuses.
 
 Talking to TOI, the girl said, “Tanveer was my friend’s friend. He started stalking me since the past one year. He used to make calls on my number but I blocked him. Then he started following me on my way to college. He used to threaten me by saying “college to akeli jati ho uthwa lenge” (you go to college alone, we will kidnap you). I ignored but his audacity increased by every passing day but on Wednesday he crossed his limits.”
 
 
 Speaking about the WSafety app, she said, “I got to know about the app from news channels. I was happy to know that it sends the location of a victim to police and works even without net”.
 
 
 CSP Bhupinder Singh said that as a new initiative, a woman sub-inspector Namrata Shrivastava has been made a caretaker of the harassed girl.   will talk to her on a daily basis and would also visit her home in case she needs help. This initiative is being taken to build her confidence level.
 
 
 Speaking on response of the WSafety app, ASP (zone-I)   said, “The app has been downloaded more than 1,000 times as per Google Play Store. It is a utility app and can come very handy. There is a special monitoring cell in police control room where the call comes when the user presses danger button. Even if the call disconnects, we receive the GPS tag which is forwarded to the concerned police station for quick action. We receive test calls daily but this was the first emergency call in which the app proved useful.”
 
