BHARUCH/SURAT: Environment and citizens groups in Bharuch have knocked the doors of the National Green Tribunal ( ) seeking urgent directions for release of adequate water from the Sardar Sarovar dam into downstream of Narmada in wake of the rapidly drying up riverbed that could potentially result in an ecological disaster.

 
 
 Considering the grim drinking water situation in Gujarat, the state government has reduced the outflow of water from the dam into 168 km stretch of Narmada downstream for the last couple of months. As a result, vast swathes of the river have virtually turned into salt beds due to heavy influx of seawater from the Arabian Sea. 
 
 NGT has issued notices to the   (NCA), the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL) and the ministry of environment and forests, asking them to reply by July 30. The notices were issued following a public interest application filed by the   and the   (BCC).
 
 The two groups have said drying up of riverbed is causing immense damage to the environment, fisheries, agriculture and local industries too. The river, which flows from bank to bank, has been reduced to a trickle as only 600 cusec water is being released from the dam. The applicants have sought immediate and continuous release of 1,500 cusec from the dam to save the river.
 
 Jayesh Patel of Narmada Pradushan Nivaran Samiti said, “The delicate balance between fresh and saline water in the downstream has been completely disturbed due to negligible fresh water inflow. Seawater has intruded into villages along the Narmada, rendering the land, sub-soil and groundwater sources useless. This environmental change, which has damaged fisheries and farming in Bharuch and surrounding areas, is irreversible.
 
 The groups have cited report of HR Wallingford Commission in which the UK-based hydrological consultants had strongly recommended a constant minimum compensatory flow of water into the downstream to avoid project’s adverse impacts.
 
 “The salinity ingress affects the river till about 72 km upstream from the river mouth at present, while tidal effects are felt as far up as 100 km upstream,” the petition stated.
 
 President, Bharuch Citizen Council, Jivraj Patel said, “We were forced to seek judicial intervention as the government has paid little heed to this serious issue, which we have raised time and again. The river must get its legitimate share of water, which needs to be determined based on fresh scientific studies instead of the arbitrary criteria of water requirement determined by SSNNL.”
 
 
