JAIPUR: Finance department issued notification on Tuesday stating that a woman government employee shall be granted child care leave (CCL) for a maximum period of two years (730 days) during her entire service. But, the finance department has formed strict rules for availing the  .

 The finance department mentioned specifically that CCL cannot be claimed as a matter of right. “Under no circumstance can any woman government servant proceed on child care leave without prior approval of the leave sanctioning authority,” says the notification.
 
 
  
 
 Under the notification child means, a child below the age of 18 years or a child up to the age of 22 years with a minimum disability of forty per cent as elaborated in the ministry of social justice and empowerment notification issued on June 1, 2001.
 
 The gazette notification used by the finance department has come into force with immediate effect. It says that a woman servant may be granted CCL for two years during her entire service for taking care of her two eldest surviving children whether for rearing or for looking after any of their needs, such as examination, sickness etc.
 
 Besides, the notification says that leave sanctioning authority can deny the leave applied for on the ground of proper and smooth functioning of government work or achievement of departmental targets.
 
 The CCLs will be treated like the privilege leave and sanctioned as such.
 
 Besides, a woman applicant applying for CCL should have to submit certificate issued by educational institution concerned or by an authorised doctor, if she is applying CCL in connection with the examination or illness of a major child living abroad.
 
 It will not be easy to apply for CCL for helping her minor child, who lives in a hostel in India or abroad. She will have to clarify how the needs of such a minor child will be looked after by her.
 
 “A woman government employee will have to submit a certificate of dependency of the disabled child along with document of disability issued by the competent authority/medical board,” says the notification.
 
 Besides, the finance department clarified that during the period of CCL, a female government servant shall be entitled to leave salary equal to the pay drawn immediately before proceeding on leave.
 
 CCL will not be granted for more than three spells in a calendar year. A spell, which begins during a calendar year and ends in the next calendar year, will be deemed as a spell pertaining to the calendar year in which the spell begins.
 
 
