MUMBAI: Following   Dharma Patil’s death, the NCP accused tourism minister Jaykumar   of being a ‘land shark’ and demanded his immediate dismissal. 

 “We demand that CM   should sack him and register an offence of murder against Rawal as well as energy minister Chandrashekhar  ,” said NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik.
 
 Malik said according to the Maharashtra land revenue code, once a land acquisition notification is issued, one cannot purchase plots in that area. “Rawal bought 1.76 hectares on April 20, 2012, for Rs 2.83 lakh much after the notification. We are surprised how the deal was registered,” he said.
 
 Malik further alleged that a high-level meeting was convened in Bawankule’s chamber on January 22 to discuss Patil’s demand and it was to be attended by Rawal and revenue minister Chandrakant Patil. He said the meeting was called off for reasons not known. 
 
 “After the land ceiling Act came into force, an individual can hold 20 to 21 hectares, but the Rawal family owns 323 hectares. In one instance, the family has got Rs 1 crore compensation for four hectares. We have lodged a complaint with the CM, SP and ACB. I am told that following CM’s instructions, the probe was abandoned,” Malik said. After Patil’s death, the CM has ordered a probe into the entire episode.
 
 Malik has also accused Rawal of having illegally acquired former President Pratibha Patil and her four brothers’ 11 hectares land. “Pratibha Patil has approached the court for justice,” he said.
 
 Responding to the charges, Rawal said, “All charges against me are baseless and false. From official records, it will be clear that I have tried to get better compensation for farmers since 2009. In fact, I had raised the issue in the legislative assembly too. Patil’s suicide is unfortunate. He was agitating for better compensation since 2009; the then government and then officials are responsible for his death.   action should be taken against these officials. Charges against me are politically motivated. I did purchase some land, but it was prior to the notification for the thermal power project. It was expected that farmers will receive compensation between Rs 5 lakh to Rs 20 lakh, but officials did not let that happen and that proposal was rejected.
 
 Meanwhile, state Congress president Ashok Chavan condemned the BJP-led government for ignoring farmers. “It clearly reflects the indifferent attitude of the government. A murder offence must be registered,” he said.
 
 Chavan added that it was unfortunate that though the CM was in Mumbai, he did not visit the farmer at JJ Hospital when he was critical. “It has come to light that Patil submitted several memorandums to Bawankule, but they were ignored,” Chavan said.
 
 
