BENGALURU: The   on Wednesday directed Banashankari police and IDBI Bank to de-freeze the joint bank account of   and his family, provided the   furnishes a Rs 20 lakh bond before the city sessions court where a case related to the firm,  , is pending. 

 Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan passed the order after counsel for the Padukones told HC that they are ready to furnish a bond of Rs 19 lakh, a sum police claim the family has received in excess of the investment they made in the company. 
 
 “Prima facie, there is no allegation made by Balaji (the complainant) against the petitioner. In fact, Balaji doesn’t even name the present petitioner in the complaint filed with police. The Rs 19 lakh may belong to either Balaji or other investors. This court is of the opinion that unless there is a strong suspicion against the petitioner, police wouldn’t be justified in freezing their account. For, it adversely affects the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the court observed. 
 
 “In order to balance the conflicting interest of the petitioners, investigating agency and the complainant, and also in the interest of justice, the respondents are directed to de-freeze the account, provided that petitioner No.1 (Prakash Padukone) submits a bond of Rs 20 lakh before the sessions judge,” Justice Chauhan observed, while disposing of the petition filed by Prakash, his wife Ujjala and daughter Anisha.
 
 Earlier, additional advocate general A S Ponnanna informed the court that Vikram Investments collected money to be invested on commodities like petroleum and gold, and Prakash Padukone received Rs 40 lakh as against Rs 21 lakh he had invested.
 
 He added that a total Rs 400 crore was invested by 1,500 people, of which Rs 350 crore had been repaid. Like the petitioner, 500 investors got back more than what they had invested. “A total of 140 accounts have been frozen. The company collected money and didn’t invest it; instead, it went into the accounts of various people, including the petitioner, who is not cooperating with the investigation. The company and its directors have caused wrongful loss and four persons have been arrested,” the AAG told the court.
 
 The judge intervened to ask the AAG whether the police station is a temple where everyone would like to go every day. He also wondered why IPC’s Section 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) was not invoked if there was a conspiracy between the company and petitioner.
 
 The petitioners’ counsel claimed there is no evidence, oral or documentary, to show any link between the petitioners and alleged offences committed by the company. There is no prima facie suspicion even, he said, adding that the petitioners will furnish a bond of Rs 19 lakh as mentioned by the AAG
 
 Police action too drastic
 
 Unless there is concrete evidence of conspiracy, merely because of some excess money was deposited, you can’t freeze the account. Wouldn’t you wonder under what provision the account is frozen? Police have taken too drastic an action
 
 Justice Raghvendra S Chauhan 
 
 Withdrew investment in March 2017: Petitioner
 
 The Padukones have challenged freezing of their joint account in the Malleswaram branch of IDBI bank based on directions of Banashankari police on March 16, 2018. They have claimed that on March 17, they were orally told by the bank authorities that their account had been frozen, which came as a shock as they had always led an upright life. Prakash has claimed that he had withdrawn his investment in March 2017, following the advice of an investment agent he consulted over the risks involved.
 
 
 
