CHENNAI: In a big relief to the farming community, the Narendra Modi government on Friday evening notified the   scheme to set up a   for water distribution. The Authority will supervise operation of reservoirs and regulate water releases with the assistance of Cauvery Water Regulation Committee to be set up. It will ensure regulated water releases by Karnataka at Billigundulu, close to the inter-state border. 

 
 The Centre, however, failed to adhere to the Supreme Court's deadline to notify the scheme before onset of monsoon. The southwest monsoon arrived in Kerala on May 29. "Our next step is the constitution of authority and committee envisaged in the scheme. We have written to the states to send names of officials to to be nominated to the bodies, as well as to ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare and other agencies. We do hope we would be able to hold the first meeting of the authority within a week," Union water resources secretary U P Singh told TOI over phone. While the minsitry sent a cabinet note on the scheme last week, the Prime Minister's Office 'sanctioned' it only on Friday, sources said. 
 
 The chairman of the authority - either a senior/eminent engineer with wide experience in water resources or an All India Service Officer in the rank of secretary/additional secretary, will be appointed by the Centre. Singh said the internal discussion on the appointment of chairman was on in the ministry. "Otherwise, the selection of chairman will take time. For the time being, we will make an arrangement after obtaining the approval of the competent authority, regarding the chairman and the full time and part time members of the ministry," Singh said. The nine-member authority will function from New Delhi, while the committee from Bengaluru.
 
 In a statement, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami termed it "a historic achievement" of the farming community and Tamil Nadu government that has been following in the footsteps of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. "The notification has established the rights of Tamil Nadu and restored the livelihood of farmers," he said, while extending thanks to all those who worked for it. Tamil Nadu government will nominate on Saturday PWD secretary S K Prabakar to represent the authority and chief engineer, Trichy, to the water regulation committee. Earlier, the TN government was planning to move a contempt prayer in the SC for the failure of the Centre in notifying the scheme.
 
 "It is a culmination of long struggle. The Authority should act like one and not a paper tiger. It should adhere to the tribunal order in letter and spirit and formulate a distress formula. Else, we are back to square one," said a senior government official. Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association general secretary S Ranganathan pointed to the arrival of monsoon. "Our request to the government is to keep everything ready, beginning with appointments. Let the bodies take a tour of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, assess the situation and start releasing water at least by June 20 or 23 for the Kuruvai (short term paddy) season to begin," he said.
 
 
