Film after film, he has explored different facets of urban man-woman relationships that defy age and social norms. This time, as a first, he has ventured into remote India with a subject that’s always been discussed in hush-hush tones in our country. Ahead of 'Padman’s' release, filmmaker R Balakrishnan, better known as  , talks to BT about the need for menstrual hygiene, why it takes a star to start a conversation and what makes reel man-woman relationships so aspirational. Excerpts: 
 
 
 ' ' is a film that will initiate discussions. So, we didn’t want it to get lost in a battle of who beat whom at the box office.The cause is bigger than any of this. It’s the first time a mainstream actor has picked up menstruation and put it out there for people to understand. 
 
 
 My nod wasn’t instant, but it was quick. After meeting   (the inventor of a low-cost sanitary pad-manufacturing machine, on whom the film is based),   and Twinkle told me that they were planning to explore his life in the form of a book and a film. I had never done a biopic before, and I conveyed that to them. However, I had seen Muruganantham’s videos and I was aware of his story. So, I took a day to think and realised that his is a phenomenally interesting life, which can lend itself beautifully to the screen. Besides, the world over, no film has been made on this subject. I told Twinkle that I wanted to write it first. Swananand (Kirkire, co-writer) and I put our heads to it. So, the book (written by Twinkle) and the script happened around the same time. It was a very interesting exercise.
 
 
 We didn’t labour over how we would show Akshay making the pads or even trying them on himself. We were very clear that the approach has to be very matter-of-fact because that’s how we want people to perceive menstruation and the hygiene needs around it. It should not be made into a big deal. Every father must discuss it with his daughters and brothers must be aware of it. There is no harm in discussing menstruation because it’s a bodily function as any other.
 
 
 In our country, there are a lot of problems and feature films are the best way to initiate conversations on a big platform. Change, of course, doesn’t occur by merely talking. It starts with making something normal, which is perceived as an issue. If you don’t question something, it won’t become a taboo. Change is not a laborious process, the start can be simple. The best films are the ones that lead people. Look at Akshay Kumar. He has backed a subject like menstrual hygiene and turned it into a national conversation.
 
 
 The villages in our country are beautiful. Cinema is about giving you aspirations, the village must draw you to live there. We shot at Maheshwar in Madhya Pradesh, which is scenic and pure. We even wrote the film there. We’re not trying to show that minds are dirty. The idea and the fact is that minds are merely blocked. Akshay plays Laxmikant Chauhan, who is not addressing ills or fighting a village baddie. He is doing what he thinks is the right thing to do. He is not out to teach a lesson to anyone. Unlike others, his mind is not blocked towards menstruation and the needs women have around it. Even when he does what he does, he doesn’t know he’s doing a great service to society.
 
 
 
 I believe that when you aspire to live a relationship, others aspire, too. Here, the husband and wife are innocent, small-town people. The wife is conservative because of her upbringing and the husband is pretty open-minded. They share a beautiful relationship. 
 
 
 She was thrilled; I would check with her on all the sensitive matters. She was my sounding board. As young boys, we’ve all seen our mothers go through the rough days, but we don’t remember any of it when we grow up. I checked with my wife on the correctness of certain issues when I was putting them into the script. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
