 E, the 22-year-old   from Coimbatore, finished first in both the categories (Open Pro Stock up to 300cc, Open Pro Stock up to 400cc) of the Formula Junior   Series (FJRS- Meco Cup), which was organised by the   recently in the city. Antony, who has been into   from 2014, talks about his journey and the challenges he faced in his career so far.

  “I got into racing in 2014 and made a podium finish in my second race which was Indian Motor Sport League tournament. That motivated me to take it up seriously. My father is an automobile engineer and he used to do rallying. So, I always had the fascination for bikes. Moto GP was a huge inspiration, too,” he says.
 
  Talking about the challenges he faced, he says, “After starting in 2014, I struggled a lot in 2015. It was a difficult year. I didn’t win much, but I learnt a lot in these two years. I always wanted to learn about the bike engines, the physics and mechanism behind it. I went to open track days to learn the basics of bike racing. Motorsports is a very difficult sport, it is extremely expensive and if suffer an injury, it takes a lot of time to recover and get back on track, he shares.
 
  He adds, “It will take you 7 to 8 lakhs to prepare a bike before for a full season. But, even though it is financially that demanding, you don’t get enough recognition or appreciation. In India there are only three proper tracks-Greater Noida, Chennai and Coimbatore. I am fortunate to have a good tack at my hometown and the pleasant weather also helps. Bike racing, surprisingly has improved in the last four to five years. The credit goes to the manufacturers who have been supporting the racers a lot in terms of funding, especially with one-make championships. Unlike car racers, bike racers have been increasing in numbers from 2015.”
 
  Antony will be leaving soon to Europe to do his masters. “I have always been keen on learning the engineering behind the bikes. I feel a racer needs to know the behaviour of his bike. You should have the sensitivity to know the bike better, as you are always pushing the bike to its limit. Europe gives me that extra exposure. The racers there get into racing right from the age of six. That should happen in India, if we have to compete at the international level.”
 
  Antony has won the FJRS cup three times in a row, starting from 2016. He also has a few other trophies decked up in his gallery. “Though I have won quite a few races, my mom is still afraid to watch me race live. She hasn’t attended even one race of mine. But, my parents have been a huge support to me. My college, Kumaraguru College of Technology has supported me a lot, right from helping me with my attendance to recognising my talent whenever I win a race. My only aim is to represent India at the international level soon.”
 
 
 
 
