SAIJI (MP): Who was the mysterious recluse who lived quietly in a village in Ashok Nagar district of Madhya Pradesh for a quarter of a century, but before his death told his servant that he was  ?

 The question has come back to haunt the MP government after two activists wrote to the home ministry, demanding that the identity of the mystery man be ascertained. He was buried, not cremated, so it’s possible to extract DNA for tests, they say.
 
 Popularly known as ‘Lal Maharaj’, he lived in village Saiji from 1972 to 2006. Just before his death on October 27, 2006, he apparently told his sevaks, ex-sarpanch Gajendra Singh   and Ghasiram, that he was Subash Chandra Bose, the eternal Netaji of Indian history. “When we asked him about a scar on his head, Babaji said he had fallen from a plane,” recalled Raghuvanshi.
 
 As word spread, Saiji was turned into a fortress. Researchers and fans flocked to the little village, but police moved in, too.
 
 “There were several things inside the hut. Everything was seized by police. People were not allowed to go near his hut. The entire village was converted into a chavni,” Raghuvanshi told TOI.
 
 
 
 Baba Lalji Maharaj’s claim to be Bose finds mention in a declassified report of Mukherjee commission that investigated the disappearance of the INA leader. The Saiji village incident is mentioned in top secret files declassified in January 2016. Page No. 11of the file says, “A very old man, claiming to be Netaji   Bose, died in a village near Guna, in MP, central India, in 2006.”
 
 The state government set up a three-member committee to examine the claim, but the body was not exhumed nor the committee’s report ever made public. Two activists from MP have now petitioned the home ministry to check the identity of the mysterious Babaji.
 
 “I have written to the home ministry for declassification of MP government’s findings and the probe committee’s report. The things seized from his hut should be displayed for public,” said Ashish Chaturvedi, a key whistleblower in Vyapam scam. “His grave is still there and DNA samples can be collected for investigation,: he added. Bhopal-based activist Vinayak Parihar has approached state government with a similar request. “Why would someone gasping for breath say that he was Netaji? There must be something in it. The most important fact is inquiry report was never made public,” Parihar told TOI.
 
 Some police officers who were part of the investigation had admitted to finding newspaper clippings relating to Subash Chandra Bose, books on Buddhism and certain things other items in the hut that strengthened the belief of the villagers that the baba was indeed Bose. This is why police buried his body so that it could be exhumed if required, but the investigations did not proceed further.
 
 Kavindra Singh Chouhan, who was then in charge of Saiji’s Shahdora police station, said: “I was going on leave that day when I got a call from my SP, asking to report back to the police station. We registered a case to investigate the claims. Since I was posted out of that police station two years later, I am not aware about the developments.” He is currently posted in Lokayukta.
 
 “Two villagers who were serving the old man were also questioned. They said the baba often used to leave his hut for an undisclosed location. The villagers said he was very secretive about his movements,” added the officer, confirming that the body was buried so that it could be exhumed for the investigations. 
 
