ASANSOL: Asansol and   on Saturday showed signs of life limping back to normalcy after a week’s violence that kept communities apart and people indoors.

 Mutual suspicion and distrust among members of clashing groups started waning as they ventured outdoors to buy essentials from common markets. Public transport too showed signs of revival in both the towns, albeit sparsely. Private vehicles, however, were few.
 
 Tension was still palpable on Saturday Police and security forces remained alert to prevent further clashes. Despite prohibitory orders,   rallies were taken out on Saturday on the fringes of Asansol and Raniganj.
 
 Most shops in Asansol main bazaar along GT Road reopened, though a few shutters remained down. The cash registers in the wholesale market in adjoining Hutton Road also started ringing again.
 
 Asansol railway station, which wore a deserted look in last few days, also started functioning on Saturday. The situation was similar in Ranigunj too. However, with prohibitory orders under section 144 CrPC still in force in both the towns, commuter presence was far from normal.
 
  secretary   said, “Drivers and helpers are still scared, but they have started reporting for work. We have restarted services on all routes though the passenger footfall is half the usual figure. While people in Asansol did step out of their homes, commuters from other districts who normally come here for work every day did not turn up.” Naresh Prasad, a bus terminus timekeeper, said; “Mini buses operated in Ranigunj, but we incurred losses because of low passenger count.”
 
 A GT Road tea stall owner, Md Jamin, said, “I had kept my stall shut. But now that people have started venturing out, I am thinking of opening it on Sunday.” An electronics goods trader in Asansol, requesting anonymity, said, “Business is still down, but at least a few products were sold after nearly a week’s lull.”
 
 SDO Asansol Pralay Roy Choudhuri said, “The situation is back to normal in Asansol. More mid-level officers have been inducted into the Asansol Durgapur commissionerate with the addition of two ACPs.”
 
