CHANDIGARH: A day after 15 freestyle wrestlers, both male and female, were excluded from the national camp by the   ( ) because of “serious indiscipline,” two of the Phogat sisters of ‘Dangal’-fame claimed that they were undergoing medical rehabilitation for their injuries so could not attend the camp.

 
 
 
 
 The federation issued show-cause notices to all the wrestlers who missed preparatory camps being held before the Asiad trials. The camp for men is being conducted in Sonipat and women’s camp is simultaneously being held in Lucknow from May 10 to 25.
 
 The federation's action against the 15 wrestlers, including eight from Haryana, means that they could be barred from the Asian Games trials scheduled later this month. The Asian Games will be held in August-September in Indonesia.
 
 Babita Phogat, 28, said she was suffering from a knee injury due to which she could not attend the camp. She said that Ritu and Sangeeta Phogat, who were gearing up to train in Russia had already sought permission from the federation.
 
 “I was feeling pain in my knee during the 2018 Commonwealth Games also. But as I was in the national squad, I did not pay much heed and went on to play. However, after returning the pain has aggravated and I had to visit my doctor at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai. I might not have appeared for the trials, but they (the federation) should have at least sent us a notice on the issue,” Babita told TOI.
 
 “The WFI was involved in the processing of the visas of Ritu and Sangeeta for a camp in Russia. There is a provision that if players want to train abroad with better facilities, they can skip the national camp. Earlier, Sushil Kumar and Bajrang Punia have also done the same. But since federation was aware of this fact, I don’t why their names have been excluded,” Babita added.
 
 Her elder sister Geeta said she was undergoing treatment at a private facility in Bengaluru. “I had severe pain in my knee since last month and I had come to Bangalore for treatment. I had written an email to the federation yesterday itself and had already booked the tickets. I will be joining the national camp on Saturday,” said Geeta. “We train diligently and do not want to miss training. If we have missed the national camp, there might be serious reason for it,” she added.
 
 Raj Kanwar Hooda, the vice-president of the WFI told TOI that if the reasons cited by the athletes are genuine, they may be allowed to return to the squad. “A panel will be constituted by the president which will consider the requests of the athletes. If the players give relevant reasons in the show-cause notice, the panel will take them into consideration and then give a verdict. I think they can return to the camp if they give valid reasons,” said Hooda.
 
 Ravita Kumari, another Haryana girl who has been axed from the squad claimed that she had to appear for her graduation exams, which she could not skip. “I had written a letter to the federation regarding my inability to attend the camp. However, they have removed my name. I will keep my case before the panel and let them decide,” Ravita told TOI. She had won the bronze medal in Commonwealth Wrestling Championships held in Johannesburg, South Africa in December 2017.
 
 Haryana sports minister Anil Vij has spoken in support of the Haryana grapplers. “I request the WFI to reconsider the players’ requests as it would hamper the medal prospects in Asian Games,” said Vij.
 
 
