CHENNAI: Cynthia Pandian, former vice-chancellor of Tirunelveli-based Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, died here on Sunday. She was 72.

 She is survived by her husband  , who was former speaker of Tamil Nadu assembly. He returned after a long self-imposed political exile to support the present deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in his fight against   and her clan to take control of the AIADMK.
 
 Cynthia Pandian had also been the vice-chairman of   for Higher Education. Chief minister   and Panneerselvam paid homage to the departed academic at the Anna Nagar residence of the Pandians.
 
 The eldest of their four sons, P H  , is the present additional advocate general of Tamil Nadu, while another son P H   is a former MP as well as a former MLA. Their only daughter, Dr Devamani Pandian, is a gynaecologist and paediatrician.
 
 A Fulbright scholar (2003-2004), Cynthia Pandian was appointed as the vice-chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University in 2005. In 2012, she was appointed as the vice-chairman of Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education by the Jayalalithaa government.
 
 Cynthia Pandian began her career as a lecturer in English in 1973 at Bharathi Women’s College, North Chennai, and joined the University of Madras in 1974 as lecturer in education, climbing up the ladder there as reader, director in-charge, professor and head of education department.
 
 She retired from service in 2008. Since then she had engaged herself as an education consultant offering consultancy services to educational institutions, funding organisations and students, as well as delivering speeches and chairing sessions in seminars and conferences. 
 
 She had been the chairperson of the committee for examination reform in Kannur University, Kerala, and chairperson of NAAC coordinating committee, among others.
 
 She was also member of a high-level committee to prepare curriculum and knowledge modules for a course in “Management of Higher Education” conducted by   National Open University, New Delhi. 
 
 
