At Sofi Pind, the native village of Punjab BJP president and the party's dalit face  , there is tension over a clash between two communities. While such a scenario is usual in rural India, this time, it is two SC communities rallying against each other. The Adi-dharmis and Valmikis, two largest SC communities in Punjab, have been at daggers drawn since January 27. Polarisation is evident in a talk interspersed liberally with labels of “us” and “them”.

 Adi-dharmis are the dominant community in this village with over 3,400 votes while Valmikis have less than 300 votes. Jatt Sikhs are also in a minority.
 
 Police has been deployed in the village, particularly near the building of an old village school where members of the Valmiki community wanted to set up a dharamshala and even unfurled a community religious flag.
 
 The school was shifted two decades back and the building now houses a primary health centre and anganwari. It is also used for public purposes such as elections. The words, “Bhagwan Valmiki Dharmshala” have been painted on the gate of the compound.
 
 Trouble started after the flag was unfurled and Valmiki Ramayana was placed in the school building on December 9 last year. On January 27, police, in the presence of a panchayat dominated by Adi-dharmis, removed the flag from the old school building. This led to a clash between the police and Valmikis. More incidents of violence were reported later when a few Valmiki youths allegedly targeted a few shops and caused damage.
 
 On Wednesday, Adi-dharmi community members led by Guru Ravidass Bhawan (temple) president   Kumar and   president Robin Sampla held a protest demanding arrest of the accused, who are all from the Valmiki community.
 
 Three cases have been registered against them for attacking the police, rioting in the village and hurting religious sentiments and attempt on the life of a village resident from the   community.
 
 “We are not against any community and no clash took place as no member of our community confronted them. We want the accused to be arrested as they had torn posters of the anniversary of Guru Ravidass, seriously injured a community member and also damaged a few shops largely of our community,” said Paramjit.
 
 “They tore a hoarding of Guru Ravidass anniversary near my shop and one poster was burnt,” said Ramji Lal, another community member. Already, four members of the Valmiki community have been arrested by the police in a case of rioting.
 
 While Adi-dharmis deny a conflict, Valmikis allege they have been at the receiving end. “They (Adi-dharmis) have four Ravidass temples in the village and we don’t have even one decent place. The Valmiki temple is at a very small place. Village sarpanch and other prominent members of the Adidharmi community also accompanied the police when our religious flag was removed,” said   Pintu, in the presence of other members of the Valmiki community in the school premises which they now call a religious place.
 
 Community members are stationed here round the clock to “guard” the flag they unfurled on a new pole after the old one was removed.
 
 
 
 
 As Valmikis allege discrimination by the dominating Adi-dharmis, they cited an instance of refusal of utensils to a Valmiki community member. “Recently, before the January 27 episode, the Guru Ravidass temple (Bhawan) management refused to give utensils to our community member Joginder Lal’s family for a function to celebrate birth of a child,” said Sanjeev Kumar Pintu and Bhajan Singh.
 
 Asked about this, Ravidass temple president Paramjit Kumar admitted to have refused the utensils but said the decision was taken by the management committee after “they” (Valmikis) did not return the big cooking pans taken several months back. “They also don’t pay anything for missing utensils. We used to give utensils earlier,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Even as both are Scheduled Caste communities, we live on the margins. The street in our neighbourhood has not been constructed properly despite the fact that streets in the entire village have concrete pavers,” said Valmiki community members. The village sarpanch denied any such discrimination. “All sorts of issues are being raised and it’s unfortunate,” he added.
 
