NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Sunday emphasised on participation of more and more women in building 'New India' and urged the scientific community to deliberate on how ' ' (AI) could help the country in helping differently abled persons, tackling natural disasters, extending health services and assisting farmers . 

 "After all, our dream of 'New India' is the one where women are strong and empowered and are equal partners in the development of the country," Modi said in his monthly ' ' radio broadcast.
 
  He said it was "our fundamental duty" to ensure participation of women in every field of life, be it social or economic. 
 
  Referring to International Women's Day observed every year on March 8, he recalled the words of Swami Vivekananda, who had said the idea of "perfect womanhood" was "perfect independence". 
 
  "We are part of a tradition where men were identified due to women. Yashoda-Nandan, Kaushalya-Nandan, Gandhari-Putra, these were identities of a son," the PM said. 
 
 As India observes National Science Day on February 28, he also stressed on the importance of the "relentless quest" for truth.
 
  Urging the scientific community to harness 'Artificial Intelligence', he said, "It was interesting to know about the ongoing miraculous accomplishments in the field of science. Artificial Intelligence aids in making robots and other machines meant for specific tasks. This technology can be harnessed to better the lives of the underprivileged, the marginalised and the needy." 
 
  The PM also spoke on safety ahead of National Safety Day on March 4. "If we are not aware of safety in our daily life, if we are not able to attain a certain level, it will get extremely difficult during the time of disasters," he said. 
 
  Modi regretted that while people read signboards on safety, they often ignored the messages. "Leave aside natural disasters, most mishaps are a consequence of some mistake or the other on our part. If we stay alert, abide by the prescribed rules and regulations, we shall not only be able to save our own lives but we can also prevent catastrophes harming society," he said. 
 
 While mentioning different steps being taken by civil society and people to achieve Swachhta, the PM talked about the Gobar Dhan scheme, which aims to generate bio-CNG and manure from cattle dung and other wastes. He said such waste can be a source of "income" for villagers. 
 
 
