NAGPUR: Every child is unique and is a God’s gift, a pinch of affection and warmth can do wonders for autistic children and help them bloom too. The least we can do is give them more time and try to understand them, said well-known paediatrician Dr   here on Monday.

 Bodhankar, international president of Commonwealth Association for Health and Disability (Comhad), was addressing a gathering of open parent forum, organized by Comhad and Samvedana Special Needs School, to mark   Autism Day, at Chintan Hall, Mata Kacheri, on Monday.
 
 Dr Urmila Dahake, editorial board member of Comhad, introduced the doctors and the   to the parents. Dr Vasant Khalatkar, secretary general, stressed on early diagnosis and proper treatment of autistic kids and advised parents to go the extra mile while dealing with these children. He also informed the parents about how they have been working towards spreading awareness about   and helping autistic kids lead a better life.
 
 Advaita Mere, an autistic girl, who studies at Samvedana School performed on the song ‘Ghoomar’ which was liked by one and all. Attendees got a sneak peek of Veda Tokekar’s life, another autistic student, as she poured her heart out about her life during her speech.
 
 “We provide the highest possible standard of behavioural health care education. Along with language and speech therapy, we also provide social development of the kids by involving them in yoga and craft. Autistic kids need to be calmed down before starting any therapy and we take care of that in our school,” said principal Jyoti Phadke.
 
 A panel of doctors consisting of Sofia Azad, HoD, occupational therapy at GMC, along with psychologists Neelam Sharma, Deepali Alone and Sumedha Wankhede cleared the doubts of the parents about autism in a question-answer session.   said, “Accepting the fact that your child is struck by autism is the most difficult yet utmost important task. Your patience plays an integral role in transforming your child while you carry out the medications and therapies.”
 
 Dinesh Saroj, secretary of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) shared the dais. 
 
 On the occasion, an awareness rally titled ‘Walk for Autism’ was also taken out from Sarvodaya Ashram which culminated at Traffic Park.
 
 (Reporting by Syed Aquib Ali)
 
 
