NEW DELHI: Collecting lizards and cockroaches during the day and hunting for rats at night - that's how a young tramp spends his days at east Kolkata's Sealdah Railway Junction.

 
 What's more, he doesn't do it to pass the time, but to sustain himself.
 
 25-year-old Amit Karmakar, who hails from   district, loiters around the junction and regularly feasts on lizards, earthworms, cockroaches and rats.
 
 Local hawkers claim Karmakar is only interested in 'live specimens' to "enrich" his regular diet.
 
 "Amit had once consumed a crow chick. A large horde of crows attacked him at that time. He has also received frequent beatings from the RPF. Still he is reluctant to change his strange food habits," said one shop owner at the junction.
 
 Police maintain that Karmakar was once addicted to consuming dendrite. Once he rid himself of that addiction, he turned to eating live pests.
 
 Speaking about his queer food habits, Karmakar says, "These have long been included in my regular diet list. Without these items my meals are never palatable. But lizards are hard to find during winter."
 
 He says he left home after a family dispute and now resides at the railway station.
 
 "The head and tail of the common lizard contain a chemical component that acts as a stimulant to nervous system. A person loses his senses while eating such items. The skin of the lizard contains a certain bacteria which is toxic by nature. But it is present in very small quantity and as the immunity system in this particular youth is stronger, he is not affected by the poison," said Dr  , professor at the Medicine Department of the Kolkata Medical College.
 
 "As per medical science, this symptom is termed as  . A person who was once addicted to toxic substances but cannot afford to buy them due to financial crunch often indulges in a habit to substantiate his addiction with inferior replicas. Under proper treatment, it takes three weeks to one month for total cure of the addict," psychiatrist Dr   said.
 
 
 
 
 
