MUMBAI:  , the holding company of the $100-billion  , has brought on board former foreign secretary   to spearhead international business strategy for the conglomerate.

 
 Jaishankar, who has been designated president, global corporate affairs, is the most high-profile appointment at Tata Sons under N Chandrasekaran’s chairmanship. The Tata Group earns nearly two-thirds of its revenue from outside India. TCS,   and  , among others, are the biggest contributors to the group’s international revenues. Jaishankar’s appointment signals the group’s focus back on the overseas market, which has not seen significant traction in the last five years. 
 
 In a statement, Chandrasekaran said, “Jaishankar’s extensive experience and knowledge on international affairs will be very valuable to the group as we work to reinforce our brand and leadership globally.” The Tata brand, ranked 104 globally, is worth $14 billion in 2018, according to UK-based Brand Finance.
 
 Tata Sons’ international offices will report to Jaishankar, the company said, adding that the former top diplomat will work with group companies to help them strengthen and expand their overseas presence. In 2016, the conglomerate had set up an office in Myanmar to capitalise on the region’s opportunities for its automobile, power, IT services and consumer product businesses.
 
 Jaishankar is the latest lateral recruitment under Chandrasekaran, who has been building a team comprising external hires and in-house talent. Jaishankar, who retired in January, has been given a waiver from the one-year cooling off period required for former government employees to join the private sector after superannuation.
 
 The conglomerate created the position of director, international strategy, perhaps for the first time in 2004. Alan Rosling, who was special adviser to British PM John Major, occupied this position for five years till 2009 under Ratan Tata’s chairmanship. Subsequently, Madhu Kannan, former BSE CEO, headed business development at Tata Sons, and later in 2016 Mukund Rajan handled this role for about one and half years.
 
 An alumnus of St Stephen’s college, Delhi, and Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jaishankar was India’s foreign secretary for the last three years till January. Before that, he was the high commissioner to Singapore, and ambassador to China and the US. He had also played a key role in negotiating the civilian nuclear agreement between India and the US. 
 
 
