HYDERABAD: A majority of the   lags behind when it comes to their emotional intelligence (EI) levels. At least that’s what an analysis recently conducted by a company specialising in this area, indicated.

 Put together by  , a company offering courses in emotional intelligence, the study showed that 94 per cent of the respondents surveyed believed that emotionally intelligent people are more successful at the workplace. However, at the same time, more than four in 10 respondents (41 per cent) rated their own emotional intelligence as that requiring improvement.
 
  
 One-third of the respondents (32 per cent), also admitted to not giving paying enough attention to improving their EI levels.
 
 The exhaustive survey was conducted on mid-level and senior-level professionals, employed with large and small companies, in different domains and industries such as FSI, Telecom, BPO, Logistics and Manufacturing. Professionals from cities such as Delhi-NCR, Pune and Bengaluru, apart from Hyderabad, were part of the survey.
 
 “The positives   include lesser conflicts and better collaboration at the workplace and  . Emotional intelligence levels for those working in at a mid-level or a senior management level position is thus very important on a daily basis. Despite this fact, less than a third (31%) of the respondents’ organisations consistently lay emphasis on leveraging the benefits of EI through interventions such as relevant trainings. This is true of companies in Hyderabad as well,” said Sandhya Mathur, founder of Inward Focus, which has conducted training sessions among senior professionals from several IT companies in the city.
 
 While admitting to their shortcoming, 42 per cent of the respondents, meanwhile, said that they need to work on improving their ability to manage emotions and connect with others whereas 51 per cent said that with emotional intelligence training sessions, they are more confident, more capable, and that they are able to stay calm, flexible and focused when workplace crises hit.
 
 
