Every time I hear someone shouting “Holi haiiiiiiii”, I clench my fists and try not to run. Five years ago, a man I had known for ages had shouted these same words and hugged me tight (too tight for my comfort) while everyone around us cheered and played with  .

 It was the day I lost faith in the festival I had never thought twice before declaring it as my favourite. All colourful memories associated with   were wiped clean that day. I was molested, yet I could not raise my voice against it. It was Holi, and everyone had a reason to get a little naughty with colours. At least, that’s what my friends told me whenever incidents of   during Holi cropped up in our conversation.
 
 Like always, we had gathered at a friend’s farmhouse where a Holi party was being organised. We were hardly there for a few minutes, when my friend’s uncle, who was a little drunk at that time, came and wished me. He offered me a drink from his glass, which I refused politely.
 
 Call it premonition or a girl’s sixth sense, I wasn’t feeling very comfortable that day. I told my friends that I wanted to go home early but my words were drowned in the noise before it could reach their ears. As time passed by, I relaxed a little and started enjoying the day with my friends. Everyone were a little high on happiness and the air was pregnant with laughter and merriment. Slowly, the crowd grew bigger and the entire place was filled with colours.
 
 As I was dancing with my friends, I felt a hand trying to grab me from behind. I turned immediately, taking the person by surprise. His face was hidden behind layers of colours but I didn’t fail to recognise the eyes I had met so many times. When he saw that I had recognised him, he winked and said, “Holi haiiiiii!”. And before I could react, he hugged me. I just stood there doing nothing and almost laughing at my helplessness he took some colours and smeared it on my face. But he just didn’t stop there. His hands traveled down ad reached my neck and he slowly put his hands inside my t-shirt. I was in a state of shock. It was Holi. And it was the last time I celebrated the festival of colours.
 
 I left the place in a hurry and never spoke about this incident. 
 
 Then why am I writing about this after so many years? I recently read a news article about people being attacked by balloons filled with urine on Holi. And there were also reports about a girl being molested by her friends during Holi. This is not how we observe this festival. Holi is about colours and joy; it’s not about attacking people with things we wouldn’t even dare talk about in the open. 
 
 It’s time we should stop molesting people in the name of a festival. Let Holi be a memorable affair and not an occasion that makes people think twice before stepping out of their house. 
 
 –By Anonymous
 
