Nagpur: Ninety-five-year-old Nagpur University and colleges have put a disappointing performance in this year’s rankings declared by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) on Tuesday. Except Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), which managed to improve its position from 42nd to 31st, none of the colleges could improve its rankings. Some like Kamptee-based Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy (KBCP), which secured 34th rank last year, dropped to 44th this year. City-based Guru Nanak College of Pharmacy (GNCP) which was at 49th rank last year has slipped between 76-100. NU’s fall beyond 150th ranking came as a big shock for its top officials, who went into a huddle on Wednesday to discuss the setback. After last year’s poor rankings, NU administration had aimed at breaking into top 100 and had assigned the task to its Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) director Manoj Rai. He too tried his hard throughout the year by collecting and presenting all necessary aspects like placement, faculty position and others. An upset vice-chancellor SP Kane blamed several vacant posts of faculty members and lack of research projects for the debacle. “In the absence of faculty and infrastructure, NU’s position is not good as compared to other universities. We tried our best, but other institutions prepared well for improvement in their rankings. Frankly, traditional universities can’t be compared with specialized institutions like IITs, IIMs or NITs. Though Pune University is an exception, its culture was developed over the years,” he told TOI. He said the NU would be making strenuous efforts next year to better the ranking, but some things like filling up of vacant teaching and non-teaching posts was not in its hands. NU is not the only oldest universities which figured in 150-200, Mumbai University is also put in the same list. “Last year, we hadn’t presented any patents, but this year there were five. Even many undergoing research projects along with the placement record were named in our report for the NIRF rankings. Of course, lack of faculty is one of the main impediments, we tried our best to break into top 100. We lacked only in not gauging preparations by other institutions,” Rai told TOI, adding that they would reviewing where the NU failed. In 2016, when the NIRF rankings began, NU shockingly failed to participate as officials didn’t send the data in time. The participating institutions were measured on various parameters like faculties, placements, infrastructure and facilities, patents and earnings through them, and projects among others.