NEW DELHI: Claiming that it is on firm grounds on the appointment of the   who were sacked by the   on Tuesday, the   said it retained the right to approach a court against the  . To substantiate this point, the government on Wednesday released documents from March 2015 showing orders from the general administration department stating that two advisers — Arunoday Prakash and Amardeep Tiwari — were appointed with the consent of the lieutenant governor on a co-terminus basis.

 “We are on firm grounds. All options are open before us, including the option to approach the court,” said a government official. While discussions are on to decide how to deal with the central government’s order, sources said Delhi government is also waiting for the Supreme Court verdict on the Centre-Delhi power tussle, which is likely to settle the issue.
 
 After the sacking orders, the advisers are no longer entitled to an office and government work, but they are likely to extend their assistance to the government as volunteers. Some of them even visited the Delhi Secretariat on Wednesday.
 
 The intent of the   leaders was clear in Raghav Chadha, former adviser to deputy CM Manish Sisodia, submitting a demand draft to the Union home ministry for Rs 2.50 that he earned in the post during a two-and-a-half month tenure. Chadha was appointed adviser in January 2016 and stopped working when his term got over on March 31, 2016. “I accept my retrospective sacking from the position that I held for 75 days two years ago,” quipped Chadha, currently the national spokesperson of his party.
 
 Hitting out at the Centre over the axing of the advisers, AAP national spokesperson Dilip Pandey said that the decision reflected a “political vendetta” and had been done with the “design to obstruct the reforms the AAP government has put in process after coming to power”.
 
 Alleging that the BJP governments in the states and at the Centre have appointed “misfits” to key positions, Pandey declared, “BJP believes that people like Atishi Marlena should not work in the government for the people but that self-proclaimed religious leaders should be in government. The BJP-headed Madhya Pradesh government has accorded minister of state rank to ‘Computer Baba’ and four other self-proclaimed religious leaders.”
 
 The entire AAP machinery, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal included, is backing the appointment of Marlena as adviser to Manish Sisodia on reforms in education. While AAP’s social media team is using the networking platforms to flag the fact that Marlena is an alumna of Oxford University and has boosted reforms in the education sector while receiving just Re1 as monthly salary, Kejriwal confined himself to endorsing these tweets and others of colleagues.
 
 A top AAP leader said that the re-appointment of Marlena remains undecided because the party is mulling her candidature from New Delhi constituency in the coming Lok Sabha polls.
 
 
