In the latest episode of  , Rudra and Bhavya get married. Shivaay tells Anika that nobody can defeat him. Anika teases him.

 Svetlana and Anika fight. Anika removes her fake braid and surprises everyone. Veer is shocked to see this. Shivaay says that they made up the story of Anika being dead to find out the real culprit in their own family.
 
 Shivaay tells Pinky that he had recorded everything that went on and threatens to send her to jail. He gives her one last chance of telling the truth. Roop scolds Veer for not doing anything to stop them.
 
 Svetlana does a shocking thing and says she won't let their plans work. She presses a button and bombs come down from the ceiling. She says that she will kill everyone if they don't fulfill her demands. Svetlana says that she would do anything to avenge her father's murder. Soumya supports her while Tia thinks of a way to tell Shivaay about this without putting her life at risk.
 
 Pinky asks Shivaay to do something to stop Svetlana. She laughs and asks Soumya to go out with Tia. Tia pleads in front of her but Svetlana pays no heed. Svetlana tells them that they will die together as a family. She presses the button and escapes. Tia cries. Svetlana and Soumya hug and congratulate each other. Suddenly, the police arrives.
 
 Svetlana is shocked to see the police and hears Shivaay's voice. She sees everybody behind her. Veer and Roop wonder how did Shivaay manage to save his family once again. Roop tells Veer to run away as Svetlana can tell Shivaay about Veer's hand in destroying the family.
 
 Shivaay reveals his plans and says that his family is most important to him. He says that he knew Svetlana would do something like this and remembered where the safety exits were.
 
 He asks the inspector to take Svetlana into custody. Shivaay says that whatever happened in the past, his family was never behind it. Svetlana and Soumya get arrested while Tia is asked to give a statement to the police.
 
 As the police takes Svetlana away, she screams at the Oberois and says that the truth cannot remain hidden for a long while. Shivaay asks her to stop. Svetlana looks at Anika and tells her that the day the truth about Kalyani Mills comes out, she will no longer stand by Shivaay.
 
