LUCKNOW: The 'Samajwadi Pariwar' dinner in Lucknow on Wednesday turned into a grand show of unity after Independent MLA   alias Raja Bhaiya showed up at the event and vouched for his support for the Samajawadi Party in the   polls. 

 Even SP chief  's estranged uncle   Yadav, who is MLA from Jaswantnagar, attended the dinner and announced that the party was united and all SP MLAs, including him, will vote as per the party line in Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 Earlier there were speculations that Raja Bhaiya, who was a minister in the   government, may not vote in favour of the SP as being an Independent MLA he was not bound by the party whip. Putting all such rumours to rest, the Kunda MLA said: "I was with SP in the past and will remain with SP." 
 
 I will try to persuade another Independent MLA, Vinod Saroj, to vote for SP, Raja Bhaiya told TOI. Saroj is known to be close to Raja Bhaiya.
 
 For the first time after 2017 UP elections results, Shivpal and Akhilesh made a joint public appearance at a party event. 
 
 Shivpal posed for cameras along with Akhilesh, Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav and the party's Rajya Sabha candidate Jaya Bachchan. 
 
 Among the senior leaders, SP vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda was the first to arrive at the venue. Soon he was joined by Shivpal Yadav who came directly from  . 
 
 "I had said I will come if I reach Lucknow in time and I have kept my word," he told TOI. 
 
 The dinner was hosted by SP MLA from Gauriganj Rakesh Pratap Singh. He received Shivpal at the gates with a bouquet as members of team Akhilesh-MLCs Anand Bhadauria and Sunil Sanjan-took special care to ensure that Shivpal was well attended to. 
 
 Minutes later, Akhilesh arrived with Dimple in tow and the two were later joined by Jaya Bachchan and MLC Madhu Gupta. 
 
 Among the noticeable absentees were SP patriarch   and senior leader Ram Gopal Yadav. However, party MP Dharmendra Yadav, who flew in from Delhi, said he was representing the two senior leaders who were in Delhi for the ongoing budget session of Parliament. Senior SP leader Azam Khan and his son Abduallah, both of whom are sitting MLAs, were also absent. Sources said the duo was in Rampur and reach Lucknow on Thursday. 
 
 The voting for the Rajya Sabha polls will be held on Friday. 
 
 Two other MLAs who did not attend the meeting called by party president Akhilesh Yadav were Subhash Pansi and Kalpnath Paswan. Sources said they had informed the party leadership about the reasons for not being able to attend the meeting. 
 
 Of the 47 SP MLAs, only   is unlikely to tow the party line as he has joined the   along with his father Naresh Agarwal. Another SP MLA, Hari Om, is in jail in a criminal case.
 
 
