MUMBAI: Just how expensive diesel has become can be gauged from this stark fact: A year and a half ago, the price of petrol in Mumbai was cheaper than what diesel costs now. On September 1, 2016, petrol cost Rs 68.4 a litre, about a rupee less than the price of diesel on Wednesday. The latest price of petrol is Rs 81.8 a litre. A transport source said transporters plan to hike freight rates by 10-15%, which could have an impact on the prices of essential commodities such as vegetables and fruits.

 The rising prices of vehicle fuel have hit both motorists and dealers. The effects, though marginal at present, are evident. While motorists have cut down on fuel expenditure, dispensing stations have reported a dip in earnings. This doesn’t mean, though, that the queues for petrol or diesel are any shorter. “We continue to witness long queues at the pumps. But they are not filling up their vehicles’ tanks. They are just buying what is necessary to see them through the day in the hope that prices, now linked with global indices, might come down a bit in a couple of days or so,” said a petrol dealer. “Some are coming twice a day, though I don’t know what’s the reason for that.”
 
  
 A senior member of the   said there has been a 2% drop in daily earnings across most of the 223 fuel pumps in the Mumbai region, including the city, Thane and Navi Mumbai. At pumps with high sale volumes (located on or close to arterial roads and highways), average daily sale is close to 600 kilolitres of petrol and 450 kilolitres of diesel— a 2% drop. At smaller pumps, the average daily sale is 250 kilolitres of petrol and 200 kilolitres of diesel—a dip of up to 3%. A source said, the cumulative   to dealers in the Mumbai region is “a few lakhs of rupees”.
 
 There has been no reprieve for six days as the price of petrol kept rising from Rs 81.17 last Friday to Rs 81.8 on Wednesday. Similarly, the price of diesel went up from Rs 68.3 on March 30 to Rs 69.02 on April 4. Just six months ago, the price of diesel was Rs 10 less and the price of petrol Rs 6 less.
 
 The day-on-day rise in   may not seem much, but the cumulative effect over several days shows. Experts say these are still early days for the wider consequences to register, but eventually they will. A petrol pump owner at LBS Marg, Bhandup, said, “It isn’t that those who travel to work by car or bike are suddenly switching to public transport, but then now hardly anyone wants to top up the tank. Everyone is taking a sort of wait-and-watch approach.”
 
  of the Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers Association said the government should bring fuel under GST and reduce hefty taxes. “In Maharashtra, fuel prices are especially high due to VAT, cess, etc. It is a big jolt to national transporters as the cost of diesel is the highest in our state, especially in the Mumbai region,” he said.
 
 
  chief Sanjay Nirupam has announced a cycle morcha of party activists in south Mumbai for Thursday to demand that petrol and diesel be brought under GST.
 
