CHANDIGARH: The problem of fake income certificates has cropped up again. Recently, a private school in Chandigarh lodged a complaint with the   against a parent whose child was admitted to the school under the economically weaker section category, saying that he supplied false income details to avail the benefit of Right to Education Act.

 Under Right to Education Act, students from   background are taught in private schools for free. Every school is bound to reserve 25% for such students.
 
 In her complaint, principal of Bhavan Vidyalaya School (Junior), Sector 33, Soma Mukhopadhyay demanded an inquiry against the parent. TOI has a copy of the complaint.
 
 In the letter, she said, “Satbir Singh, a resident of Sector 46, admitted his daughter under EWS quota in 2012-13. Certificate from the SDM, issued by tehsildar (Revenue), Chandigarh administration, mentions his family income as Rs 99,600 per anum. However, his ITR for assessment year 2012-13 (for financial year 2012-13, the year of admission), a copy of which has been submitted to the department, shows his income as Rs 2.43 lakh. Satbir is actually a resident of Progressive society, Sector 50 B,” reads the complaint.
 
 It was said that Satbir’s facebook posts indicate that apart from working as a manager in a company, he is also involved in the production of Punjabi music videos since 2011.
 
 “You are hereby requested to take cognisance of the above facts and conduct an enquiry as to how a false income certificate was issued by the concerned authorities if his ITR for the financial year shows his gross income as Rs 2.43 lakh,” reads the complaint.
 
 The school principal said as per the notice by the UT administration and the education department, schools have been clearly directed that any false declaration made by a parent to the tehsildar/ authority concerned, furnished to take benefit of his/her ward under the EWS category shall be liable for prosecution under section 177 and 191 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Talking about what made the school report the parent many years after he admitted his child, Soma said, “An offence is an offence irrespective of when it was committed.We wish to implement RTE in letter and spirit and since in this case we could obtain necessary proof, we want the department to take necessary action that they themselves have specified in their memo. We also want these seats should go to the rightful claimants. Taking action also signals all others who are furnishing false information that deceit will not be taken lightly.”
 
 An official from the district education office said the complaint will be forwarded to the director, school education on Friday. The parent could not be contacted.
 
 Not the first time 
 
 In 2016, principal of a private school forwarded a complaint to the Chandigarh deputy commissioner alleging that the income certificate provided by one of the applicants for admission of his ward to the elementary class was wrong. As per the complaint, the applicant held back the status of his wife’s income in the admission form as well as the self-declaration provided to the DC office to get an income certificate made. The case was proved, TOI reported. Following such complaints, the DC office decided not to issue income certificates for admission.
 
 
