MANALI: Traffic on the 10km-long heavily congested   highway will breeze through soon as Kullu administration is removing encroachment from the stretch following the   high court order.

 The land along the highway has been encroached and a large number of commercial structures like shops and hotels have been built. The highway between Kullu and   remains busy 24 hours a day. The highway, under traffic burden, faces traffic jams and has no space left for pedestrians. Situation becomes worse during summer tourist season when thousands of tourists make beeline to the district.
 
 Kullu sub-divisional magistrate Amit Guleria said court order was being complied with strictly. “A team of revenue department is demarcating the land. The structures inside acquired width of the highway will be removed. If people do not leave the encroachment, structures would be demolished. The action is already on,” he said.
 
 A four-lane highway form Bhuntar to Kullu is being built from outside the town. But most of the vehicles come to Kullu town before going towards Manali. Large structures have been raised on all corners of the highway. At many places, there is no space for footpath. In compliance of court order, revenue and forest departments have started to marking the land identify encroachments.
 
 Meanwhile, there are a few structures along Manali-Kullu highway which have been compensated by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) for widening of the road but owners have not dismantled their buildings. There are some cases where owners dismantled front half portion of the building which comes under the proposed highway. But as payment has been made for complete building, owners had been served with notices to remove the remaining structure that is standing at the edge of the road.
 
 Manali sub-divisional magistrate   said: “We don’t want to cause damages to the owners. So we have asked them to dismantle their buildings within few days. There are nearly two dozen such buildings. All owners are cooperating with us and are dismantling buildings. Our revenue officers are watching the progress on the field.”
 
 
