AHMEDABAD: In a major operation, the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) searched the headquarters of   (GLDC) Ltd, a state-run company, in   on Thursday night. The operation continued till late in the night as teams worked on various aspects of the case. By 10.30pm,   has counted Rs 56 lakh in cash.

 According to ACB officials, a trap was set at the GLDC office based on a tip-off. When a team reached the spot on Thursday morning, they learned about a huge stash of cash at the office. While ACB officials were tight-lipped about the persons involved, sources said that three or four senior officials are being questioned about the find.
 
  The GLDC website says its primary activities are soil and water conservation through water harvesting and surface water management. Sources said the money that changed hands may have been kickbacks for payment of bills.
 
 “Five DSPs and 12 other officers are at the office since Thursday evening. When it emerged that the amount of cash seized was high, currency counting machines were borrowed from a nearby branch of a nationalized bank. Four or five persons are being questioned with the revenue records, to ascertain where the money came from and for what purpose,” said a senior ACB official.
 
 Officials said representatives of farmers had complained about widespread corruption at GLDC and had demanded action. The ACB had prepared for the search for the last couple of days. Officials said more details will emerge once GLDC officials are questioned. A directorate of forensic sciences (DFS) team were taken to the spot to collect evidence – primarily documents found in various offices – and carry out forensic questioning.
 
 ACB sources said that they had received a complaint in July 2017that GLDC would discriminate between contractors from various districts in contracts awarded for things like farm fencing and building of farm ponds. As such work was contracted after applications were made online, crucial dates for awarding of work or inspecting bids were arbitrarily decided by a certain clique, to benefit certain contractors. This was put to the CM and the ACB was tasked with uncovering the corrupt practices at the government owned company.
 
 
