LUCKNOW: UPA chairperson   Gandhi's dinner diplomacy on Tuesday saw attendance of both   (SP) and   ( ) leaders, days after Congress went ahead solo in the Lok Sabha bypoll in Uttar Pradesh. 

 SP supremo and former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav's confidant Ram Gopal Yadav was seen at Sonia's dinner meet. He was seen sitting next to BSP's Satish Chandra Mishra.
 
 The presence of UP's two regional parties assumes significance as it came days after they came in support of each other in the bypolls to Phulpur and Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seats on March 11, ending their 23-year-old rivalry.
 
 
 
 
 Though Congress was upset at being left out, Akhilesh had rejected UP Congress chief Raj Babbar’s charge that he had offered a seat each as an arrangement between the two in UP bypolls last week.
 
 The meet also saw an early arrival of Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh.
 
 The visit by the three UP leaders comes at a time when Rajya Sabha elections to 10 seats have turned into a big controversy after BJP hinted at disallowing BSP to elect their parliamentarian with support from both SP’s 10 extra MLAs and Congress’s seven MLAs.
 
 Sources in the SP and BSP, however, maintained that the dinner meet cannot be seen as an attempt to forge an alliance and that “regional parties” will continue to have an “inevitable greater control in state politics”.
 
 “It is natural that we are all in the Opposition and we need to put up a united front in both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha on issues of national security, economic policies or joblessness. For that matter, even on something like triple talaq criminalisation bill.
 
 UP, after all, is represented most by the regional parties. But we did not sent our leader to enter into any discussion with Congress over pre-poll arrangement, either for Lok Sabha or otherwise. We are, at the moment, quite content with SP-BSP arrangement and will wait to see the results,” a top SP leader said on condition of anonymity.
 
 A senior BSP leader though confirmed that it has approached both SP and Congress, as well as RLD, requesting them to issue a whip to vote in favour of their Rajya Sabha candidate on March 23, but no talks were held on an alliance for 2019 elections.
 
 The dinner meet also saw other Yadav clan members like Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejaswi Yadav and his sister Misa Bharti attend the event.
 
 
 
