Nagpur: Self-taught artists made their creations look appealing despite being coated in shades of grey during the ‘on spot sketching competition’ held on the second day of ‘Athena Fest’ organized by Hislop College in association with The Times Of India, on Thursday.

 Being a new entrant in Athena’s list of events, the organizers were sceptical about the number of registrations. However, they received an overwhelming response from school and college students. The use of different techniques of shading and detailing by participants added to their amazement.
 
 A captivating and finessed charcoal sketch of famous musician John Lennon created by Vivek Vishwakarma was adjudged the best among the lot. Pursuing a degree in music at RS Mundle College, Vivek has been practising the art since childhood to master it.
 
 Prajakti Hatwar from Hislop College went ahead with the second theme which was ‘wildlife’ and drew a scene depicting two African elephants using graphite pencils. The correct tonal value of shades, harmony of composition to balance the effect of light and flawlessness helped her grab the second prize.
 
 Some even used micron pens, cotton and other tools to deliver their best art. Executive committee member Ramsha Jani said, “It is difficult to maintain the symmetry while drawing human figures. Artists have to be extra careful while sketching to avoid smudging and dirtying the sheet.”
 
 For high school children, the first theme was ‘Anime’ where they were free to draw their favourite Japanese cartoon character, but only a few opted for it as it was hard to recall the images in mind.
 
 The logo of the   was given as a template as the other topic. The logo with wings and Greek goddess of wisdom and skill ‘Athena’ in the centre was given a twist, as students showed their expertise by modifying the symbol to add different meanings to it. They transformed it into an eagle, angel and even Olympic torch of Athens.
 
 Vice-president Harshal Deshpande said, “I’m glad to see the masterpieces sketched by immature artists. The intricate designs and powerful imaginations was icing on the cake. I feel that our hard work has reaped results.”
 
 Competitions such as LitMasters, Quizzistan, and solo singing (grand finale) will be held on Friday.
 
 
