TRICHY: Sale and circulation of banned plastic carry bags will attract a wide range of penalties from January 26 following a decision taken by the district administration and   recently. The urban local body (ULB) has constituted teams for each of the four zones here to inspect and penalise if plastic carry bags less than 50 micron thickness are found circulated from the shops.

 As the central government notified Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 encompassing revised anti-plastic protocols, the civic body in August 2016 implemented the same giving more teeth to sanitary officials to seize plastic carry bags with less than 50 micron thickness. However, environmental activists here alleged that even 20 micron plastic carry bags sourced from other districts are sold to traders here labelled as 50 micron.
 
 Concerned over the continuance in usage of banned plastic carry bags of poor quality and subsequent pollution, district administration and Trichy Corporation in December 2017 had set January 25, 2018 as deadline for traders, distributors and also vendors to disown the practice of circulating carry bags less than 50 micron in thickness. With the deadline ending on Thursday, corporation has planned to conduct raids across hotspots in Trichy where banned plastic carry bags are being circulated from Friday.
 
 “Even national flags that are manufactured from plastic material are largely sold across the city. Post the patriotic celebrations, such flags can be seen dumped on roads and later on drains degrading the environment and also our patriotism. It is high time for us to ban plastic national flags,” K C Neelamegam, environmental activist said.
 
 Officials also said that traders should ensure only milk white colour plastic carry bags above 50 micron thickness are being circulated among consumers. “We have constituted teams which would go for routine inspections across the city in the coming days. Officials have been insisted to penalise the offenders to eradicate banned plastic carry bags from the city,” corporation commissioner   said.
 
 Apart from the cooperation of traders, behavioural change from public is cited as need of the hour by the civic body.
 
 
