CHANDIGARH: To ensure free flow of traffic, administrator’s advisory committee has recommended building of three flyovers in the city at CHB Junction, Tribune Chowk and Sector 26 Transport light point. After studying all aspects, the panel suggested alternative routes to prevent traffic congestion during peak hours.

 Talking about non-motorised tracks, the committee asked for properly-planned tracks and a mass rapid transportation system in the city. The committee also felt that there was a need to take steps towards ensuring a smooth traffic flow. The panel observed that at many roundabouts, traffic flow suffered due to several reasons.
 
 These observations have come at a time when city has been struggling with traffic jams that can be seen even during non-peak hours at various areas.
 
 Although the   administration has started constructing cycle tracks across the city, only two-wheelers are seen using them, and this defeats the purpose of having cycle tracks in the city.
 
 “Properly planned non-motorised tracks that comprise pedestrian pathways and cycle tracks should be designed to have proper convergence and divergence at an appropriate distance from each rotary/traffic light to avoid any mishap. Alternate routes could be explored to avoid traffic congestion even during non-peak hours,” the panel observed.
 
 “The UT is witnessing an increase in the number of vehicles, which is contributing to air and noise pollution. Recently, the air quality index of the city was reported to be on the higher side, which is a matter of serious concern. A mass rapid transportation system should be commissioned in Chandigarh and its surrounding areas. This move would reduce the number of vehicles,” the committee added.
 
 Meanwhile, the panel added that regular checking and monitoring of public transport like buses and auto-rickshaws should be carried out by the administration as these vehicles were the main source of pollution in the city.
 
 “Their pollution control certificates should be regularly and strictly monitored,” it said.
 
 
