LUCKNOW: The drubbing in Gorakhpur and Phulpur still fresh, UP chief minister   is unlikely to launch a campaign blitzkrieg in Kairana and   where byelections are due later this month. 

 
 Bypolls were necessitated by the deaths of   MP from Kairana Hukum Singh and Noorpur MLA Lokendra Singh in February. The two constituencies have sizeable Dalit-Muslim population and BJP is up against another formidable electoral tie-up - between Ajit Singh's RLD and Akhilesh Yadav's SP. 
 
 In a strategy shift, BJP is relying on door-to-door campaigns instead of high-voltage, whistle-stop rallies by top leaders. The party is playing the sympathy card by fielding Mriganka Singh, daughter of Hukum Singh, from Kairana, and  , the widow of Lokendra, from Noorpur.
 
 The emergence of Lok Dal and its decision to field BSP turncoats Kunwar Hasan and Gohar Iqbal from Kairana and Noorpur have also spurred speculation of BJP propping up candidates who could potentially upset the applecart of a unified opposition. Hasan, a relative of SP-backed RLD candidate Tabassum Begum, had contested the 2014 Lok Sabha elections from Kairana and bagged over 14% of the vote. Also, Iqbal, who contested from Noorpur in 2017, received 23% of the vote. The two are expected to cut into the core opposition vote bank of Muslims and Dalits.
 
 Yogi had addressed more than 24 rallies in Gorakhpur and Phulpur - seats vacated by him and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya - after BJP stormed to power in UP with an overwhelming majority in 2017. Despite Yogi's intensive campaign, BJP lost to a united opposition of SP and BSP.
 
 Now, BJP plans to tread cautiously in launching Yogi against a belligerent opposition comprising RLD and SP in the two constituencies where the other two key players, BSP and  , have decided not to hit the hustings. Though BSP chief   has not announced support to the opposition candidate, her cadre has been working in tandem with SP and RLD workers.
 
 A senior BJP leader from western UP confirmed that Yogi would campaign in the two constituencies, but not as vigorously as he did in Gorakhpur and Phulpur. "Yogi's public meetings would be decided on party need," a senior BJP leader said.
 
 BJP's new strategy is not unfounded. The recent Dalit upsurge amid cases of atrocities, including the killing of Sachin Walia, brother of the Saharanpur district president of the Bhim Army, have only created problems for BJP. Experts said the row over Jinnah portrait in Aligarh Muslim University too, has created animosity.
 
 BJP is leaving no stone unturned as it gears up to take on a united opposition. UP BJP state general secretary and west UP in-charge Vijay Bahadur Pathak said party workers have been asked to consolidate its vote bank. "The idea is to have a vote share of 50% in both seats," Pathak told TOI.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Lok Dal president Sunil Singh, however, said his party candidates would pose a big challenge to the united opposition as well as BJP. "Jats are not in favour of RLD. Where was RLD chief Ajit Singh when Jats and Gujjars were at the receiving end during the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots," Singh asked. 
 
 
