BHOPAL: Not a single complaint of couples being harassed on V-Day was reported in Bhopal. And the   is to be thanked for that.

 A special team of 52 policewomen — including 36 members of Shakti Squad and four PCR vans with four female constables each — were deployed in four zones of the state capital. The squad patrolled parks and other spots, including Boat club, Manuabhavan Tekri, Chinar Park, Shaurya Smarak and Sair Sapata to ensure that couples weren’t harassed.
 
 ASP-crime Rashmi Mishra said, “We have deployed our entire Shakti Squad team on V-Day for safety and peace in the city. Our main aim is to ensure that no one creates problem for couples and girls. We kept a close watch on picnic and tourist spots. Whether it is   or any other organization, we will ensure that couples can easily roam around and celebrate the day of love.” 
 
 TOI caught up with a Shakti Squad at the popular Chinar Park. Vimla, a squad member, said, “We are moving towards Jehangirabad. Since morning, we haven’t got any case of harassment or misbehaviour yet.”
 
 Rohit Khandelwal, who had gone to Chinar Park with his Valentine, said, “We were happy to see the Shakti Squad. Police showed a heart this year and did a good job. Earlier, not just Bajrang Dal but even some cops used to harass us and created ruckus on V-Day. This year, we can go out and meet without any fear.” Rohini Upadhyay, who was with her boyfriend, said, “All these years, it was difficult for us to go out and celebrate Valentine’s Day. However, this year, due to Shakti Squad, we are able to go around freely.”
 
 SP-North Hemant Chauhan said, “There was pressure on us as Shiv Baraat and Valentine’s Day are on the same day. However, we tried our best to ensure peace in the city.” Police identified several spots, including restaurants and clubs at Lalghati and at Airport Road, where teams of cops patrolled all day, he said. “A big team has been deployed to patrol market areas in Bairagarh, Idgah Hills, Koh-e-Fiza and Old City. Several smaller teams escorted Shiv Baraats in Chhola Mandir and Bairagarh and Karond,” said Chauhan.
 
 
