A food delivery app recently informed me that there were four tea cafes in my immediate vicinity of 1.5km. Surprising! Is Bengaluru nudging aside its By2 for the kadak cuppa? The city, with   in its backyard and whose Darshinis, corner shops and cafes sell gallons of the typical South Indian kaafi, is beginning to appear partial to  .

 
 Which is good news for tea worshippers like me, who need that kickstart every morning, and afternoon, and evening, that only chai can give. But if tea cafes are popping up on every street, and young kids are taking to bun-maska-chai as comfort food, there must be a reason.
 
 Is it mere demand? Or is it a fad? Or is it a statement on the changing demographics of the city? Whatever the catalyst, one look at the crowds in a chai cafe and you know it’s big business. Maybe more popular ever since the PM made it a socio-political trend, and tea-brewing became the national profession.
 
 To be fair, tea-making is an art and very few chaiwallahs in Bengaluru get it right: the proportion of milk and water, leaves, colour, consistency, it’s all in the hand that brews. Often, local stalls overboil the leaves and add generous doses of milk to mask it, fine diners serve an insipid variety, while railway pantries restrict themselves to a brown, indeterminate liquid.
 
 But with the arrival of chai cafes, quality is definitely moving up the scale and it looks like there are tea academies handing down the secrets of brewing. It’s no longer the good, honest cup with a ginger twist, or a Sulaimani; the varieties are exotic and confusing: basil, wheatgrass, jasmine, mint, cinnamon, caraway and any other kitchen garden herb you can grab.
 
 Tea entrepreneurs, it seems, have got the formula just right. One quirky cafe in Mumbai, incidentally called Chai pe Charcha, gives the customer much more than their special brew (and complimentary rusk). It literally takes you on a city tour in true Mumbaiyya lingo, as Bollywood icons and a   caricature look down from the walls. Low on investment, high on smart lines maybe but it gets the customer back to the table, where you can play ludo and snakes-and-ladders.
 
 Bengaluru has its share of expert brewers too, many of them small stalls tucked away in corners: Charminar, Makkah, Savera, in kulhars or glasses, some even with a dash of condensed milk. They earn their fame by sheer dint of skill, much like the paanwallahs.
 
 My personal favourite is  , a stall down my lane which specializes in the chukku (dry ginger) series – in combinations of cinnamon, pepper, masala and what-have-you. Piping hot aromatic stuff for Rs 20 a glass, and you are ready to take on the world
 
