'O chitta ve, o chitta ve, kaiyaan nu hai khush kitta ve,' Shahid Kapoor’s forever-high Tommy Singh sings to equally-high fans at a concert in 2016 film ' '. The film highlights Tommy Singh’s drug-addicted life, and the affect it has on fans who are ‘inspired’ by his lifestyle, in the background of Punjab’s drug problem. In real life also, many Punjabi songs tend to glamourise drug use, and violence, and are often riddled with obscene lyrics. Now, the Punjab government has decided to check vulgarity in Punjabi songs.  , Punjab’s Tourism and Cultural Affairs Minister, and a TV celeb in his own right, recently announced the setting up of   Commission and said, “The Punjab Government is engaged in all seriousness to eradicate the menace of vulgarity from Punjabi songs and is taking this task as an article of faith.” Reports say that the committee will also keep a check on “objectionable elements,” including glorification of drug abuse, violence and depiction of any obscene elements in songs broadcasted in the state. Further, the committee will take suo moto cognizance of any instance of violation of the rules and will act promptly upon receiving any complaint in this regard. Sidhu added that “the commission is not going to recommend straightway an FIR against the singer. It would start with counselling.” 

  
  
 
  
  
 While some singers from the Punjabi music industry appreciate the move, many are wary of what all come under “objectionable elements” and “vulgarity” according to the committee. 
 
  
  'Goliyan', a song featureing Honey Singh and  , glorifies violence, with lyrics like ‘Mitran nu shaunk, goliyan chalon da’
 
 
  
  Guns galore: A grab from 'This Party Gettin Hot', featuring Jazzy B and  . The video shows them dancing in a jail-like setup with guns and alcohol around
 
 
 
 
 
 Dilbagh Singh, popular for songs like 'Urban Chhori', 'Punjabi Awey Nachenge', and many more, says, “There are two things that came to my mind when I read this news. First, what is the definition of vulgarity? There are many singers whose songs have double meaning or comments about women. Kuch log goliyon pe gaana bana dete hain, jaise ki ‘Gun rakhi di ae golian naal bhar ke... jado panga pai jave’. I am not saying that music has any boundaries, but an artist has to make songs within his or her limits. Your song should not hurt or offend anyone. I am in support of this commission, but they need to inform us what is acceptable and what is not. There can be a censor committee for lyrics as well. Censor pehle hi gaane ko purify kar de toh artist ko bhi problem nahi hogi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Jasbir Jassi, who is popular for songs like 'Dil Le Gayee', says, “I support this move. I have been raising my voice against objectionable lyrics for a long time. But in the last 20-25 years, these demands for a censor board for songs and videos have not led to any concrete results. Also, I am concerned about two things. Bada sawal ye hai ki aap mana kya kar rahe hain? What are you objecting to? Ab ‘Botlan Sharab Diyan Akhan Teriyan’ mein aap sharab rakhoge ki nahi rakhoge? Toh ab aisi line, jahan seedha sharab nahi bol rahe par ankhon ko bol rahe hain, toh yahan sharab hatana chahiye ya nahi? Ab jaise maine ek line likhi thi, ‘Teri ankhiyan da sutta main...’, ab hai toh ye sutta, par ankhiyan da hai, toh isko ban kiya jayega ya nahin? There are thousands of songs which are on alcohol, but they don’t promote alcohol. There are too many grey areas. Also, they are saying an FIR will be registered against those who will not follow. But that means nothing. I don’t have much hope from such committees.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Indeep Bakshi, known for songs like 'Saturday Saturday', says that while it is good to discourage lyrics that send out a bad message to the youth, censorship can hurt creativity. He says, “If we are not hurting any religious sentiment or glorifying drug abuse or violence, then I believe artists should be free to use whatever words, phrases, and language they want in songs. Ab ‘daaru’, ‘ladki’, ‘party’ nahi likhenge toh party songs toh nahi bana sakte na? They will all become sad songs. There are checks already in place. The censor board is there, and all our music videos pass through it. Kuch galat hoga toh they will remove it. Then the courts are there too. Why do need more authorities? If an artist is not free, he or she won’t be able to make good music. You can’t create anything with restrictions. And frankly, songs are made for fun and entertainment. Don’t take them so seriously and monitor them so much. Itne gaane bante hain har roz, kitna time aur energy lagega har ek ko monitor karne mein. Itni energy aur resources agar doosri initiatives mein lagayenge toh Punjab ki tasveer badal jayegi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Earlier this year, the Punjab Police had appealed to singers to not glorify alcohol and violence in their songs. STAR BOY LOC, who is known for songs like 'Peg Pe Peg LOC Check', says, “Nobody promotes drugs in their songs. Hum wahi gaate hain jo youth ko pasand hota hai, aap sharab rok do hum gaane rok denge. What will I sing if the commission will have problem with my songs? There is a kind of naughtiness in my songs and there is a thin line between naughtiness and vulgarity. Ab koi gaana suhaag raat pe hai toh usmein insan ghunghat uthane ki baat hi karega na? If someone is doing commercial music, and their songs come on TV, they are not allowed to even show anything related to drugs. If you talk about YouTube, wahan toh gaaliyan bhi chal rahi hain aur janta pasand bhi kar rahi hai. This has started with the Punjabi music industry, this can go to Bollywood as well, wahan toh saare gaane hi aise hain. This way, how will the artist sing? If you look at the current music scene, lyrics have already taken a back seat, ab aap aisi boundaries bana doge toh banda gayega kya? Hum apna shutter band karke baith jayein kya?”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kaptan Laadi, the voice behind songs like ' ' and 'Nakhra', says, “I have been composing songs for a long time now. Aap gaane pe pabandi nahi laga sakte. Jisne daaru peeni hai, jisne smoke karna hai, woh karega hi. Gaano se koi inspire nahi hota. You can advice the singers, you can ask them to help you in creating awareness among the youth, but you cannot take such harsh steps like filing an FIR. If you look at songs in Bollywood or other languages, they are the same everywhere. You can give guidance, public ko nahi sunna toh nahi sunegi na. I am also not in the favour of singing songs on alcohol and objectifying girls, but you cannot take away the singers’ right to express themselves. Agar koi aankhon ko nasheeli bol raha hai toh woh symbolic hai, agar koi daaru pe gaana bana raha hai toh log uska gaana sunke daaru nahi peene lagenge.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I believe artists and singers are blessed people. Youngsters religiously follow their favourite stars and dream of becoming like them. So, it is important that an artist should make meaningful songs and videos with a good social message, and not make music which would affect the youth in a negative way.
 
  
  
 
 (With inputs from Niharika.Lal@timesgroup.com and Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com)
 
 
 
  
 
