The residents of Magarpatta city are a happy lot these days. The traffic snarls in their area during office hours have reduced considerably, and apparently, it’s because more people have started using bicycles to commute. “The IT employees residing here used their motorcycles and cars to travel just two or three kms within Magarpatta to reach office. This was causing traffic issues. But now, the bicycle sharing system has come to our rescue and many employees can be seen going to work on cycles,” says resident Sagar Jadhav, referring to the  's ( ) bicycle sharing system that was introduced in Magarpatta around a month and a half ago. In Deccan, these cycles are being used by students during the day and also by locals looking to exercise in the morning and evening. “Students can be seen going for tuition on these cycles. Locals of the area use them to travel short distances.” 

 There are plenty of users even at night and sometime people have to wait for someone to finish their ride,” says Swati Pednekar, who lives in the Deccan Gymkhana area. Ajay Thopate, a student of College of Engineering, Pune, says that these cycles are helping them save their pocket money. “I had to travel from college to Tilak Road. I took a bicycle from JM Road, completed my work and returned in half an hour. It cost me just `2 for the entire trip. Even by bus, it would have cost me `20 and that too after waiting for an hour,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 But it’s not all praise for the project that was rolled out in the city four months ago. Though a favourite among citizens, with nearly 2,000 cycles currently in operation, the system is still dealing with some teething issues. “Many users take these cycles to their residence and leave them in the society,” says Sagar from Magarpatta, while Swati points out, “The app to unlock and use the cycle is connected to our Paytm wallet. But there are some people who don’t use this wallet. There should be options for other wallets as well.” And referring to technical glitches that some users face, Suvarna Kamble, student of   says, “At times, the app does not connect to the e-wallet and we have to end up using an auto or bus.” 
 
 Despite these teething issues, the overall benefits and positive response from citizens has been attracting the attention of authorities from across the country. Various government authorities have approached the PSCDCL seeking guidance to replicate the project in their states. “Considering the success, various states and cities are calling us to implement similar projects. Recently our team visited Dharmshala, Port Blair and many more places for the same,” says  , chief executive officer of PSCDCL. Addressing the concerns about technical glitches and misuse of the cycles, he adds, “The service provider is improving the system. The system registers the behavioural pattern of users and based on this, in future people who misuse the cycles will face action in the form of extra charges, etc.”
 
