CHANDIGARH: Strongly opposing the bail plea of a Class XI student who allegedly murdered a seven-year-old boy in a wellknown Gurugram school last September, the   has made it clear it has enough evidence to substantiate the student’s involvement in the case.

 The agency has also asserted that internet access and searches by the student, before and after the commission of crime, reflected his intention to commit the crime and to escape from the clutches of law after the offence.
 
 In a detailed reply filed before the Punjab and Haryana high court in response to the accused’s bail plea, the agency has submitted that if released on bail, the boy may influence witnesses and even abscond, which would hamper the course of investigation.
 
 Referring to the accused as “Bholu”, the CBI through its counsel Sumeet Goel submitted that investigations have revealed that he used to surf the internet and browse various social networking sites, music, pornography and gaming by using data on his mobile device, a RedMi Note 3, and his mail that was configured on the device.
 
 The mobile was seized by the CBI and a complete record of searches made by him from July 11 to November 2, 2017 was also retrieved. The   was committed on September 8, 2017.
 
 “The investigation conducted by CBI revealed that ‘Bholu’ made internet searches about poisoning, various poisons, their effects and sources during August-September 2017 and the same was downloaded by CBI during the course of investigation in the presence of independent witnesses and member of the   Justice Board Gurgaon,” Goel told the court.
 
 The CBI also stated that the boy, after committing the crime, had searched various sites on September 19 on Google to find out how to wipe fingerprints from the scene of crime.
 
 On September 8, 2017, the seven-year-old victim’s was found with his throat slit just outside the washroom of the school. Initially, the murder was investigated by Gurugram police, which had booked the school bus conductor for killing the Class II student. 
 
 However, the case was later referred to CBI for   and the agency detained the Class XI student. The bus conductor has been acquitted.
 
 
