BENGALURU:   national general secretary and Karnataka incharge P Muralidhar Rao asserts that his party will reach the 150-seat mark, a figure according to him, not conceptualised just to motivate the party cadre. In an interaction with STOI, he explains the plan of action. 

 
 
 If one goes by the statistical expression of the mission, there’s a logic to question the basis. Karnataka’s population has undergone a demographic change. We have to trigger the ambition among the youth and it all depends on how far the BJP will be able to connect. The Congress has 100% status quo attitude even after   Gandhi took charge of the party. What has he defined which represents the change politics?Where’s the message of zero tolerance towards corruption? Dividing society into a narrative cannot be a positive idea. Have you seen a single message on the deteriorating law and order? The Congress is reacting, not forming the narrative.
 
 
 
 That’s true, but a message has reached all over the country that PM   will not tolerate corruption. Amit Shah has already made it clear that adjustment politics and politics of compromise will have no place in their scheme of things. The party is taking utmost care in selection of candidates which we hope will make people forget the ‘past scenes’ (Yeddyurappa going to jail). A message that the BJP leadership has taken up the responsibility of providing good governance will be sent.
 
 
 
 
 Yeddyurappa is not a leader without strength. When one talks about change, the combination of Modi and Yeddyurappa will be a powerful one. Yeddyurappa without Modi or Modi without Yeddyurappa is incomplete in Karnataka as a combination.
 
 
 
 This time, the BJP’s penetration into Vokkaliga votes will be historically high. Vokkaligas are also looking at who can defeat the Congress. Many Vokkaliga leaders are joining the BJP. The entry of S M Krishna and C P Yogeshwara has given a big push for the party. Many religious leaders are accepting the party’s ideology. This is the reason why we brought Modi and Shah so early to Mysuru. The party’s gain in   region will be all-time high.
 
 
 
 
 We are not doubtful about achieving the 150-mark. Why should we target the JD(S) whom we don’t consider as an important force. Our goal is the party in power and capture the anti-Congress votes by pitting ourselves as a formidable opponent. 
 
 
 
 
 In the past two years, there have been specific efforts from the central leadership and the government for Dalit outreach. Certain programmes have been taken up particularly linking emotionally with B R Ambedkar. 
 
 
 
 
 The BJP on certain occasions has disowned and distanced from particular statements. Hegde will not be issuing such statements.
 
 
 
 Rahul is a young man but other than attacking the BJP, what’s the change he has brought? Yeddyurappa has travelled 11,000 km and addressed 224 meetings. The youth don’t have any problem with Yeddyurappa and there’s any indication that his body or reflex actions are weak. In the context of Modi vs Rahul, is the latter representing the youth or the PM? It is the spirit, not the age that matters.
 
 
 
 
 Target Siddaramaiah’s governanceand law and order issues. Home minister Ramalinga Reddy’s list of murders in different regimes is not the issue. The Congress hasn’t been able to destroy the network that has been creating problems in the coastal area. 
 
 
