HYDERABAD: A major fire broke out at the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s central zone office at Khairatabad early on Tuesday morning. It took two fire tenders nearly one and a half hours to douse the fire that left GHMC property worth nearly ?10 lakh damaged, said fire department officials.

 The blaze, sparked off by a suspected short circuit, is believed to have started at around 6am in the audit room, on the first floor of the GHMC office.
 
 Fire department officials said several pieces of furniture, computers and files were damaged in the fire which was contained to the first floor as the fire department reached there before it could spread.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “Two fire tenders and nearly 12 firemen were sent to douse the fire. We got the news only around 7am, when one of the security guards arrived at the GHMC office and noticed the smoke, which was so dense that the firemen had to don oxygen masks to enter the premises,” said  , Hyderabad district fire officer, Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department According to GHMC officials, the chamber of the examiner of accounts, central zone, was extensively damaged. Nearly five almirahs packed with files and paper related to stock files,   bills and the like were completely gutted. Nine computer systems, including CPUs and monitors, three printers and a scanner were also damaged.
 
 “Around 295 running bills along with attached documents and measurement books, which were pending for processing and left at the work stations were also destroyed,” said a GHMC official.
 
 The latest incident comes a day after some welding work sparked off a minor fire on the first floor of the Hi-Tec City Metro rail station on Monday.
 
 “It was a minor fire. By the time the tender reached, the fire was doused by a Metro rail worker,” said GV Prasad, ADFO, Rangareddy district.
 
 “While welding work was being done yesterday evening, some sparks caused a small fire at the   station. It was immediately controlled & extinguished. I have instructed L&T to further improve safety measures to prevent such incidents in future,” said  , managing director,  .
 
 No casualties were reported in the two fire accidents.
 
