NAGPUR: Much to the chagrin of   consumers, the   ( ) on Friday increased the water tariff by 5% for the eighth consecutive year. Ever since the supply went into private hands, there has been a 48% rise in the tariff.

 The revised water tariff has come into effect from April 1 and is applicable for all seven categories of consumers.
 
 Besides, the consumers have to cough up more from July 1 as the NMC needs to pay more to the water resources department (WRD) for raw water.
 
 The WRD is all set to increase tariff of raw water. The WRD has already allocated raw drinking water of only 139.03 million meter cube (MMC) as against demand of 269.7 MMC to the NMC. But the NMC will utilize 269.7MMC.
 
 The WRD will charge 1.5-2 times of tariff for utilization of above 139.03MMC. And, the WRD also separated allocation of residential and non-residential for the first time. 
 
 Tariff of non-residential is 18 times more compared to residential category.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said the tariff hike has been a regular practice at the civic body. 
 
 “As per the agreement executed with the private operator — Orange City Water Private Limited (OCW) — the NMC has to revise the rate of OCW as per changes in wholesale price index (WPI) and consumer price index (CPI). Accordingly, the general body has empowered the civic chief to revised the tariff up to 5% every year,” he said.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar said hike in tariff merely by 5% every year will not result into a burden on consumers. 
 
 “Take the example of property tax. It was not revised for decades but when revised, it increased average up to 5-10%, causing a lot of inconvenience to consumers. But the water tariff is increased only 5% every year. So, it doesn’t bother consumers too much,” she said.
 
 Condemning the decision, independent corporator Abha Pande said the increase in tariff for eighth consecutive years without proper services was an injustice towards the consumers. 
 
 “Any increase in tariff is welcome if the services are proper. Consumers will have no problem to pay more if given 24X7 supply without contamination. OCW, which should have been slapped with penalties for poor water supply, is awarded with 5% hike in tariff every year. The NMC consumers have been getting water supply, that too contaminated, on alternate days or more. The civic body has always been taking steps for the benefit of OCW, and not the people,” mayor Nanda Jichkar said.
 
 The NMC had roped in OCW for operation and maintenance of the water supply along with execution and implementation of 24X7 supply project in 2011-12. According to the agreement, the civic body accepted to revise OCW payment as per revision in WPI and CPI that bound to increase every year from the central government. Therefore, the NMC requires to revise the tariff every year.
 
 
