MATAIKHAR ( ): For the 3000-odd voters living in the remote villages along the greater   - about 60 km from Guwahati - and exercising their right to franchise in both the states of Assam and Meghalaya, the primary concern remains getting better road connectivity, employment opportunities and clean drinking water. 

 The tribal population along these border areas vote in both the states, with no resolution to the ongoing inter-state border dispute in sight. For these voters, the most significant issue is better civic amenities. Though villagers remain grateful to both the states for providing them with low-cost ration items, they have many more demands from the government in  .
 
 "Division of the two states was hardy a matter of concern for us. The needs of the people have remained almost the same here for over the last few decades. There has been some good work done in Meghalaya of late, with roads being developed in the hilly areas. But for the political parties, Mataikhar is yet to get due importance during poll campaigns. This is possibly due to the fewer number of voters here," said  , a resident of Salser village in greater Mataikhar.
 
 An activist from the area said though the Meghalaya government has taken a pioneering role in ushering in development by providing electricity years ago, they have not been of late successful in fulfilling the aspirations of the people. "In the greater Mataikhar area, there are about 3,000 voters, but only one secondary school. We also avail of healthcare services provided by the Assam. Hopefully, the next Meghalaya government will be more sympathetic to the cause of these poor families living in these fringe villages," the activist added.
 
 Several governments have failed to focus on this area which has remained beyond their developmental agenda. Joblessness and crisis of pure drinking water still continue to haunt the area even though it is located close to Chandubi Lake in Kamrup, a celebrated tourist destination.
 
 "Majority of the families in our area are dependent on agriculture. If any of the state governments take up initiatives to open food processing units and prioritize industries which tap into the natural resources, it will be a blessing for the villagers," said  , a local youth in his 30s. He also feels that the tourism potential of the place can be developed, as the serene hills bordering Meghalaya have remained peaceful even when sections of the Garo and Rabha community fought each other in border villages of lower Assam.
 
 
