MANGALURU:   and Karkala MLA   seems to vying with Union minister Anantkumar Hegde in stoking fires. Sunil, during a speech, said the election in Bantwal is not between district minister B Ramanath Rai and BJP candidate Rajesh Nayak. “This election is between Allah and Sri Rama. Let Hindus decide whether Allah or a friend of Sri Rama should win.”

 The BJP MLA indirectly called upon Hindus to vote for Nayak. He was speaking at the BJP’s village outreach programme at Kalladka in Bantwal, about 30km from here, on Monday. Bantwal is the constituency of Rai.
 
 Reacting to Sunil’s statement, Ramanath Rai said the Congress was considering filing a complaint with the Election Commission. 
 
 Sunil said: “The MLA, elected from Bantwal for six terms, has said he won the election with the blessings of Allah. People need to decide who should win in Bantwal. Are you going to elect Allah again and again or choose a person who loves Rama? This is the issue — it’s not between BJP and Congress.”
 
 The video of the speech has gone viral on social media. Some time ago, Rai, at a public function in his constituency, reportedly said he was being elected from Bantwal because of Allah’s blessings.
 
 Rai said: “Elections are about development issues. The discussion should be focused on whether I’ve worked for the constituency. However, BJP has always been paving the way for radicals. He should not have spoken in this manner. What is the meaning of his statement? We believe in what Mahatma Gandhi believed in – ‘Ishwar Allah Tere Naam…’ Our Constitution mandates elections should be held without religious interference,’’ he said.
 
 In the recent Gujarat polls, the BJP had played a similar communal card to consolidate Hindu votes by putting up posters and circulating them on social media to choose between RAM and HAJ. ‘RAM’ was derived from the names of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, BJP national president Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. HAJ stood for Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti leader Hardik Patel, OBC leader Alpesh Thakore and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani, who were backing the Congress.
 
 
