NEW DELHI: A   battle has broken out between Central Industrial Security Force ( ) and Delhi International Airport Pvt Ltd ( ) over   not being paid to the  .

 At their annual press meet on Friday, top officials of CISF said that DIAL currently owes them Rs 737 crore for personnel deployment. “Delhi airport has paid Rs 236 crore in the last one year and even after that our current dues are Rs 737 crore,” said a top CISF official.
 
 The airport, however, said that the security fee (PSF) collected from passengers is not enough to pay for CISF deployment. The security agency wants PSF accounts checked to verify this claim.
 
 DIAL strongly denied CISF’s claim and said: “CISF has wrongly stated that DIAL owes Rs 737 crore… PSF fund is maintained by DIAL in fiduciary capacity on behalf of ministry of civil aviation (MoCA), which has a deficiency of Rs 508.43 crore (as on January 2018) resulting in non-payment or delayed payment of cost of deployment bills of CISF. CISF has also charged an interest of Rs 238.95 crore (as on January 2018) on overdue amount under PSF that does not have approval of MoCA.”
 
 “The books of accounts of PSF for IGI airport are maintained by DIAL as per guidelines issued by MoCA, which are audited by internal audit team of the ministry, an independent audit firm on annual basis and even by CAG. As and when any information is asked by MoCA, the same is provided. Hence the contention of CISF is not valid,” DIAL added.
 
 CISF has been trying for several months now to get its dues from DIAL and has raised the issue with both the home and aviation ministries. Flyers pay PSF of Rs 130 per ticket to cover the cost of security arrangements at airports.
 
 Last year, DIAL had clearly said it does not have the funds to foot the bill of security personnel deployment. “After the recommendations of the seventh pay commission came into force, average salary shot up by 100% or more. The number of personnel too has doubled to about 5,000 since Terminal 3 opened,” DIAL had said last August after CISF had sought clearance of dues of Rs 655.4 crore at that time.
 
 
