NEW DELHI: The Constitution is silent on selection of  , but this temporary post with limited mandate invariably goes to senior-most member of the House in terms of membership or age as per convention. There have, however, been precedents when even junior members were appointed pro-tem speakers. 

 Even the BJP Karnataka MLA K G  , who was appointed pro-tem speaker by the state Governor   on Friday, had once served as pro-temspeaker 10 years ago. He was then appointed by the then governor Rameshwar Thakur. 
 
 There is a similar example from 2005 in Jharkhand, where the then Congress MLA P K Balmuchu was appointed pro-tem speaker by the then state Governor Syed Sibte Razi. There were seven MLAs senior to him in the Congress while five MLAs senior to him in the opposition. Like Bopaiah now, Balmuchu too had then been asked by the Supreme Court to conduct confidence vote in the Assembly. 
 
 Balmuchu, however, could not conduct the   then due to continuous disruptions of the House on one or the other pretext on March 11, 2015. The confidence vote was then conducted by the then elected speaker Inder Singh Namdhari four days later when NDA under chief minister Arjun Munda proved its majority.
 
 Asked about selection criteria of pro-tem speaker in the backdrop of such precedents, constitutional expert Subhash C Kashyap told TOI, “There has been no constitutional provision on this. There has, however, been convention that the post of the pro-tem speaker should go to senior most member in terms of age or membership of the House, irrespective of political parties.”
 
 Can pro-tem speaker cast his vote during the floor test? Kashyap, former Lok Sabha secretary-general, said, “He can vote only in case of tie”.
 
 Though the powers of the pro-tem speaker are not defined in the constitution, he/she is generally appointed for two main tasks - administering oath of office to new members and secondly to conduct the proceeding of the House to elect new speaker.
 
 “The office of the pro-tem speaker ceases to exist once the speaker is elected. The Supreme Court’s order in the case of Karnataka on Friday, in fact, gave the pro-tem speaker an additional power. His role will be extremely important during the floor test in the Assembly on Saturday,” said S K Sharma, former secretary, Lok Sabha and Delhi Assembly.
 
