Visakhapatnam: It is a strange paradox — at a time when environmentalists and doctors are increasingly emphasising on the importance of parks and green spaces and taking walks among nature, many cities are doing little to save their green spaces. Visakhapatnam’s   Park, which was named after freedom fighter Tenneti Viswanadham, is one such spot where Vizagites spend most of their evenings either relaxing or walking in the park. The greatest draw for the visitors is its picturesque beauty complete with purple hills, lush walks and the gurgle of water kissing the beach. But this picture is steadily becoming a thing of the past because visitors to the park are now welcomed by piles of   and foul smell.

 K Rahul, a software engineer based in the city, said, “Tenneti park is one spot where most of the youngsters spend their evenings during their free time. My friends, along with their families, get together here to spend some quality time. However, most of us stopped visiting the park due to the stench from the waste that is found strewn both inside and outside the park.”
 
 Signages, urging people not to litter should be put up and awareness programmes should be conducted to address the issue, said Anil Chowdary, managing director of Green Waves Environmental Solutions. 
 
 An environmentalist Sohan Hatangadi said, “Although civic authorities are making efforts to keep the entire city clean, special attention needs to be given to the beaches that are one of the major tourist attractions.” “The garbage that is piling up is mainly due to the food courts, which have sprung up over the years. Alternatives to plastic ware for serving food need to be used to help reduce pollution,” he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, chief medical health officer (CMHO) of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation A Hemanth said that the worsening condition of thepark is due to mobile food vendors. “The callous attitude of sellers and consumers has made it difficult for the sanitary staff to clean the entire stretch of beach on a daily basis.”
 
 Adding that dustbins have been placed at regular intervals, the CMHO said, “Although we had given the mobile food vendors permission to conduct their business, we have warned them against littering the place. They would be penalised if they do not adhere to the instructions; their license can also be cancelled.”
 
 
