ALAPPUZHA: Gopinatha Pillai, 78, whose son   was killed in an alleged fake encounter by Gujarat police in 2004, died on Friday following a road accident. 

 Pillai, a native of Nooranad, who was engaged in a legal fight to prove the innocence of his son branded as a terrorist, met with the accident at around 6 am on Wednesday at   on National Highway 66 here while on his way to private hospital in Kochi for a medical check-up. The Maruti 800 car was being driven by his brother Madhavan Pillai.
 
 Javed Gulam Sheikh aka Pranesh Pillai was shot dead along with Ishrat Jahan and two others in the ‘fake’ encounter.
 
  “We left home by 4am on Wednesday. A car that was moving in front of us applied brake. As I slowed down the car it was rear-ended by a lorry. Our car lost control, crossed the median and collided with another lorry coming from opposite direction,” said Madhavan Pillai. The lorry which rear-ended the Maruti however did not stop. While he did not suffer any major injury, they had to take his brother to a private hospital in Kochi. “He was conscious till 11 am. But he was crying of pain,” Madhavan Pillai said. “I don’t think there is any mystery behind the accident. He had undergone a bypass surgery 20 years ago and had to be taken to hospital once in three months,” he said.
 
 Pattanakad sub-inspector B Shajimon said the lorry driver reported the accident in the station and the vehicle was released on Thursday. “We have registered a case of unnatural death and has started a probe,” he said. 
 
  District police chief S Surendran said that he has not received any complaints regarding the accident. “Gopinatha Pillai’s brother does not have any doubts about the accident,” he said. Police said they have sought the help of forensic experts to confirm whether a truck rammed into the car from behind. So far, they haven’t got any evidence to prove it, they said. The funeral will be held at Gopinatha Pillai’s house in Nooranad at 11 am on Saturday.
 
 
 
 
 Doctors at the  , where Gopinatha Pillai was under treatment, said he passed away due to cardiac failure. Pillai was admitted to the hospital with multiple fractures involving hip, ribs and tibia and respiratory distress after his car met with an accident. He developed heart failure due to stress cardiomyopathy, a condition in which the cardiac muscles weaken, and was shifted to the  , where he died on Friday at 2.30am. 
 
 Pillai, who had diabetes, cholesterol and high BP, had undergone bypass surgery in 2002 and angioplasty in 2012,hospital sources said.
 
 
