In the latest episode of  , Tara hopes that Deep is able to find out what was written on her mehendi. Arohi looks on as Tara gives Deep hints but he is unable to find the clue. Suddenly, Tara screams and says her hands were burning. Arohi looks at her and says she mixed something in her mehendi because she knew she would try to do something.

 Tara and Arohi break into a fight in a room and Deep and Roma get there to resolve the issue. Roma feels that it is a bad sign that her mehendi was burning and calls for the doctor. Unknown to them, Arohi knocked Tara unconscious and then switched places with her. 
 
 Deep doubts somebody's hand in destroying the mehendi. Deep keeps an eye and looks for the lady(Arohi in disguise). He asks the other ladies about her whereabouts. After the investigation, he finds out that Arohi was behind it. Tara suggests that they put a stop to the wedding but Roma says that the celebrations won't stop. She asks Deep to secure the house and not let anyone leave.
 
 Arohi meets Tara, who is kept in a confined room. Arohi tells Tara to play according to her plans else she would kill Roma. Niku hears this.
 
 Chawwani makes Niku and Arohi meet alone in another room. Arohi tries to explain the truth to Niku who finally identifies her. Arohi and Chawwani plan the next step to seek revenge in the Haldi function which is to be held later.
 
 Tara(Arohi) goes and sees Deep. He asks her what was written on her hand. Arohi tries to cover it up. He tells her that he had ordered extra security and has installed CCTV cameras in every room for her protection.
 
 As per the plan, the real Tara comes out and gets ready for the Haldi function. Once again, Arohi manages to fool everyone by coming in an electrician's disguise with Chawwani's help. Tara identifies her.
 
 The celebrations start. Tara fakes illness and faints. Deep asks Chawwani to get her something to drink. Tara says she has to go the washroom. Arohi realizes that by faking it, Tara took off the explosive necklace from Roma's neck and goes behind her.
 
 While Arohi goes searching for Tara, she hits Arohi from behind and snatches the remote from her. Later, we find that Arohi has been confined in a room by Tara. She tells her that she made a big mistake by keeping her alive.
 
