BENGALURU: The Election Commission is all prepared for counting on Tuesday, said chief electoral officer (CEO) Sanjiv Kumar while stating that repolling held at three polling stations—one in Hebbal assembly constituency in Bengaluru and two in   segment in Koppal district—was peaceful.

 
 Repolling was held at polling station number two in   of Hebbal constituency due to malfunctioning of the   on Saturday. Sanjiv Kumar said the polling station that has 1,444 voters recorded 53.32 per cent turnout.
 
 Procedural errors in distributing voters among polling stations necessitated repolling at two stations (No. 20 and 21) in Mannerala in Kushtagi constituency and the polling stations recorded 78.18 per cent and 73 per cent voter turnout, respectively. The polling stations put together have 1,726 voters.
 
 The CEO said preparations at 38 counting centres across the state were complete. He said the paper votes produced by voter-verified paper trail ( ) will be counted for one polling station randomly selected from one assembly constituency and rest of the votes will be counted from EVMs as usual. The VVPATs were introduced for the first time along with EVMs.
 
 Replying to a query on Rajarajeswarinagar assembly constituency, where polling was deferred to May 28 after nearly 10,000 voter ID cards were found in a flat, newly printed voter ID cards will be distributed to voters before May 21 as per the directions of the Election Commission.
 
 
 
 Showing off both their inked fingers, several of the 1,444 eligible voters ended up voting twice in the past three days.
 
 “When we came here on Saturday, we waited for over two hours to cast our votes. It’s a good thing that we live just opposite the polling booth, or we might have been unable to come here both times” said Jagadish Shenoy, 76, and his wife Shakuntala, 70, adding that they vote in all elections without fail.
 
 Soma Prabha, 55, visited the booth at least four times on Saturday. “Each time there was a long queue because the machines were not functioning. I did vote though. Thankfully, today everything went off smoothly” she said.
 
 
 
 Repolling was conducted at polling station 20 and 21 in Mannerala village in Kushtagi assembly constituency in Koppal district on Monday. Polling went off peacefully from 7am to 6pm.
 
 A   was held as votes cast were in excess of the actual number of voters in polling booths on Saturday. While the total number of voters was 605 in polling booth 20, the number of votes polled was 624. There are 1,121 voters in polling station 21 but votes cast were more.
 
 
