Last week, as part of the   festivities, we saw   happening in different parts of the state with much fervour. This year, while there were no hassles in organising the sport, what’s alarming is the number of deaths and injuries during the jallikattu events. So far, at least five deaths have been reported and more than 20 injured in events held in different locations. Now, the question is who should be held responsible for these deaths — the organisers or the spectators?
A ban on the sport is clearly not the answer to this conundrum is what many from villages, where the sport is prominently held every year, feel. “Earlier, I was of the opinion that jallikattu should be banned because of the deaths and the injuries people are left with. Later, I began to feel as if our honour is being taken away. There’s risk involved in everything, even when driving a vehicle. There’s so much emotion and pride — of being a Tamilian — attached to the sport. It’s a sport of valour. Hence, it is necessary to have jallikattu. If people say there is loss of life, I would say it is so in everything else. Deaths are even caused by the food we eat,” says Azeez Babu, who is a resident of Alanganallur. 
 Nagaraj from Alanganallur, who has been a bull tamer for the last 20 years, defends the safety measures at jallikattu events, and says, “This year, at every jallikattu arena across Madurai, proper arrangements were made according to court orders. What happened at   (where a 19-year-old youth was gored to death by a bull near the collection point) was an accident.” 
 Henk Oochappan, a Belgian photographer who frequents Madurai and regularly attends jallikattu events, says, “Firstly, fewer politicians should involve themselves in the sport; it is a festival of the farmers and not that of politicians. Secondly, the crowd should be limited, with priority given to local farmers in and around Madurai, as it is their festival. Thirdly, only local press and photographers should be allowed in the gallery. Also, to improve the safety of the tamers, rubber balls should be attached to the horn of the bull.” 
 Defending these local voices is Kollywood director Ameer, one among the several celebs who actively took part in last year’s protest in support of jallikattu. He says, “Every day, there are thousands of accidents happening on roads across India. Does that mean we should ban vehicles? So, there’s no question of not having jallikattu. What can be done is that only experienced tamers be allowed inside the ring. People who are new to this and step inside the ring just for the adrenaline rush are those who get injured and killed. Organisers shouldn’t overlook that. But as far as I know, the events are being held with all restrictions in place.”
 Meanwhile, an animal activist, who was present at different jallikattu venues this year, on condition of anony mity says that the situation this year was not any different from previous years. He says, “In fact, the entire case on jallikattu started in 2007 around human death. Back then, a man, who filed the case after his son’s death in a jallikattu event, said that his son was the only bread winner of the family and asked why an event that 
 killed people should be organised. Still, every year, five to eight people die. More than animal cruelty, I would say, it is dangerous for human lives. Sadly, many victims are in their 20s and the sole source of income for their families. One of the spectators who died this year was standing in a supposedly safe place. The bull came charging and rammed into the stands, and the spectator died. The logic given by those who lobby for this sport to continue is that even in the game of cricket people can die. But if you take the entire history of cricket, people who died on field would be less than seven or eight. On the other hand, if you take the record of jallikattu for the last 20 years, you will see at least 200 to 300 deaths. Will people who protest in support of jallikattu take care of the families of these victims? Half of them wouldn’t even have seen a jallikattu event in real life. And none of them wouldn’t even dare to enter the jallikattu ring because it’s such a dangerous sport. There’s also illegal betting that takes place in these venues.” 
 He further adds that the animal cruelty is no less. “Biting a bull’s tail and beating it before releasing into the ring — all that happened this year also. There’s no end to it. Like cock fights and jackals being used in temples for darshanam, there are several such things happening in the state. Now, their argument is that if jallikattu is allowed, then, why not allow these traditions too.”
 
