GURUGRAM: The government is planning to carry out a survey to identify main choke points and prepare a roadmap to unclog perennially congested   in the city, PWD minister   said on Saturday.

 The Badshapur MLA further said a list of 14-15 main junctions would be prepared and a detailed study would be conducted to understand the reasons behind jams. “There are many places where people have to face snarls every morning and evening. A report will be prepared, explaining the reasons behind jams at every junction surveyed. Based on the report, steps will be taken to improve   movement. Underpasses will be built wherever possible,” the minister said while addressing people at a blood donation camp organised at a community centre in Sector 40. “We want to finish the survey at the earliest and make Gurugram a jam-free city,” he added.
 
 Sources said a similar survey was already underway in the city as part of a drive to improve road safety and check accidents. While several flyovers and underpasses have been built, or being constructed, along NH-8, the overall traffic situation, especially in Old Gurugram, has been a cause for concern for both commuters and the authorities.
 
 Sources privy to the plan said busy junctions, such as Bakhtawar Chowk, Atul Kataria Chowk, Huda City Centre Junction and Mahavir Chowk, among others, were likely to be covered during the proposed survey to be conducted either by MCG or GMDA. They added an underpass at Atul Kataria Chowk — where Sheetla Mata Road, Old Delhi-Gurugram Road and Sector 14 road merge — had for long been in the pipeline. Also, Mahavir Chowk, a key junction for buses that remains clogged throughout the day, could be considered for a revamp.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, the PWD minister also said the KMP Expressway would be ready by June 10, paving the way for ‘more development’ in the district. The e-way stretch between Manesar and Palway is already functional.
 
 New industries would be set up along the expressway, which would benefit “both educated and uneducated people”, Singh said.
 
 Also, a “world-class railway station” would be set up in Dhankot, he added.
 
 He said a number of projects, announced by the state government over the past three and a half years, would commence this year. 
 
 Taking potshots at previous governments, Singh said they had given licences to several builders but failed to create sufficient infrastructure for the people. “The present government has provided basic services and amenities to people,” he claimed.
 
 
 
