CHANDIGARH: After an increase in the paid parking lot charges, now it’s the turn of the commercial property   rates in the city to see a hike. The general house of the municipal  , Chandigarh, in its 248th meeting has approved a 10 % increase in the commercial property tax system on August 30, 2017. Punjab governor and UT administrator VP   has approved the said 10 % increase in the commercial property tax rate system for the new financial year, starting from April 1, 2018, and the local body government will issue the notification soon.

 It is for the first time since the imposition of the property tax in 2004 that the charges of commercial property tax will be increased. Though the matter of increasing the commercial property tax system was brought up a number of times in the past 14 years in the general house meetings, the house did not give its consent.
 
 It was last year when BJP’s   was the mayor that the matter of 10% increase in commercial property tax system was brought up by her and the majority in the house approved the same.
 
 “Since the house has already approved the hike in the commercial property tax from the current financial year, we have already sent the matter for the notification to the secretary local government office. It will issue the notification soon. Since, it is for the first time, the commercial property rates are being increased, we have been expecting good revenue out of it,” said an official of the MC.
 
 As per the records of the tax branch of the MC, Chandigarh, in the last financial year (till March 31, 2018), the tax branch has earned Rs 30.75 crore from around 23,000 commercial properties, spreading across the city. Since the private company has been doing a fresh survey of the commercial properties to get the exact number, which will be submitted to the MC, the civic body authorities are hoping that the escalation in the number of the properties in the current financial year will get MC more revenue.
 
 “Since the commercial property tax is one of the most crucial departments of the MC to earn revenue, we are hoping that with a fresh survey, the number of commercial properties will increase, because in the past years, many shops, showrooms and other commercial buildings have come up in the city,” sources said.
 
 Box
 
 Tax rebate
 
 The municipal corporation, Chandigarh has already announced a tax rebate for both residential and commercial taxpayers for the current financial year, which came into effect from April 1. The rebate period has been fixated at two months starting from April 1 till May 30. The taxpayers of the residential properties of the city will get 20% rebate on the total amount of tax of their respective properties, if they deposit the tax amount within the above-said stipulated period. The commercial taxpayers of the city will get 10% rebate on the total tax amount. 
 
 
