PANAJI: Beginning this June, over 5,000 students studying in three schools at the Cujira integrated school complex will be served a delicious new menu under the   scheme. The state government is in the process of finalising the arrangement with  , the non-profit wing of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (Iskcon), to supply the meals at the complex on a pilot basis in Goa, from the academic year 2018-19.

 The menu and other details of the project will soon be tabled before the state cabinet for its nod. The state government is also set to provide a place to the organisation to operate its kitchen from, where the meals will be prepared. 
 
 Presently, the children set to benefit from the pilot project at the Cujira school complex are the around 1000 students of Classes I to VIII at Dr K B Hedgewar School, together with a similar number studying from Classes V to VIII at Rosary High School and at Mushtifund High School. 
 
 
  
 
 The number is likely to be much higher as Rosary High School and Mushtifund Saunsthan are expected to shift their primary school sections to the Cujira complex from June.
 
 Akshaya Patra has received international attention for its efficient supply of hygienic and nutritional midday meals in Bengaluru schools.
 
 In June last year, it was invited to pitch its proposal for supply of midday meals in Goa before the state officials. “A menu according to local palate, and which meets the required nutritional value as per the government scheme, has been presented by the organisation to state authorities,” an official said.
 
 Supply of meals by the self-help group to whom schools in the Cujira complex have been assigned, will be discontinued from June.
 
 “We have not been intimated about it by the state government yet. However, we welcome the move as students are expected to get meals of much better quality under Akshaya Patra,” principal of Dr K B Hedgewar High School, Vilas Satarkar, said.
 
 Of the over 1.64 lakh students enrolled in primary and upper primary schools in Goa, a little more than 1.45 lakh avail of midday meals that are presently supplied by 109 women’s self-help groups.
 
 
