NEW DELHI: The union environment ministry’s draft concept note on   (NCAP) is silent on how it will tackle major sources of air pollution such as industry, transport, thermal power plants and others.
 
 
  The programme however has an ambitious target of reducing air pollution levels by 30% in the next three and by 50% in the next five years in 100 cities according to discussions in a meeting held by the environment ministry. Greenpeace India obtained the concept note, meeting minutes and other correspondence on the programme under RTI recently.
 
 The concept document states that in 94 out of 300 cities, PM 10 (coarse pollution particles) has been exceeding the safe standard for five years (2011-2015) while PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) levels have been exceeding the standard in 16 cities 2015 onward. The focus of the concept note is to increase the monitoring network from 680 stations nationally to 1000 stations in future, increase the number of continuous air quality monitoring stations from 55 in 40 cities to 268 in 67 cities. But, the concept note drafted by the   (CPCB) (also under the environment ministry) doesn’t have sector wise emission reduction targets and it’s not clear how it will achieve its national targets.
 
 The environment ministry officials in a correspondence in May 2017 have said the   note “lacks specificity, timeline and direction for implementation. In fact there is no reference of specific management activities and source based initiatives for implementation…the focus of the concept note is on formulation and monitoring of plans with no reference to implementation.” The ministry has recommended that the mission be implemented on the lines of   and that the mission should be target oriented with specific timelines.
 
  In July 2017, another meeting was held where it was decided that the name of the project will be changed to national clean air programme (NCAP) and “industry partnership has been incorporated as an additional component.” Finally in a meeting headed by environment minister, Harsh Vardhan in September 2017 the programme was approved for immediate implementation.
 
 Environmental activists and researchers now hope that the ministry releases a more detailed draft with source specific targets for public scrutiny. “The draft in its existing form has no reference to source based initiatives for implementation of air quality management systems. The draft needs more thinking and clarity in terms of articulating interim milestones for completing source apportionment studies to reduce 35% & 50% pollution in three and five years respectively along with specific targets for polluting sectors such power and industry,” said  , senior campaigner at Greenpeace India in a statement on Monday. 
 The draft note mentions the graded response action plan—an emergency response plan for various pollution categories being implemented in NCR and a 42 point action plan of the ministry also being implemented in NCR. 
 
 Among interesting features of the concept note, ministry has included developing guidelines and protocols for indoor air pollution, setting up of 50 air pollution monitoring stations in rural areas, review and probable amendment of existing air quality standards and launching source apportionment studies in all 94 cities which are not meeting the air quality standard for five years. The note also recommends extensive plantation drives as one of the control measures and that a “comprehensive national emissions inventory will be finalised under this mission.”
 
 The announcement of National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was made on December 18, 2017 to a reply in the   by the environment minister. Activists are hoping that the NCAP is similar to China's time bound clean air action plan which has already resulted in pollution levels reducing in the past couple of years. Greenpeace India campaigners called for more public participation in making the plan. “It is good to see government’s focus on air pollution, however there is an ambiguity on the planning given the lack of information on public domain regarding NCAP, there has to be a transparency of information in the public domain and inclusive public participation starting from planning level,” Dahiya added.
 
