MUMBAI: The city crime branch on Friday arrested   and   Prakash alias Pappu Savla along with his friend for threatening and forcing another builder to pay Rs 33 crore. Police booked Savla and his friend Raju Dave for  . Both will be produced before the 37th metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday.

 Savla’s arrest is a big jolt to the matka business, which he has been running lately, after the arrest of rival matka player, Pankaj Gangar, for allegedly paying ‘hafta’ to Iqbal Kaskar, who was   by Thane police last year.
 
 In the fresh case complaint, builder Himanshu Shah alleged that Savla and some others threatened to kidnapped Shah and his wife if they failed to pay up, but Savla’s advocate, Swapnil Wagh, said it was a frame-up.
 
 Police said that in 2011, Shah and Savla were both handling a construction project in Borivli together. But they parted ways. As per the memorandum of understanding, Savla was to pay Shah Rs 5 crore. “Savla has still not made any payment and whenever Shah went to ask for the money, he evaded him. He recently called him to the Madina building site and forced him to sign property documents and refused to pay Shah,” an officer said. Dave called up Shah and his wife on Friday and told them to come to Borivli, where Savla and his men threatened Shah to sign the documents of Victory Platinum, or else they threatened to kidnap him and his wife and kill them. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Nisar Tamboli said, “It is a proper case of extortion and the law will take its course.”
 
 Wagh said, ‘It is a purely a civil dispute over a failed joint venture. If Savla had forcibly taken the property documents last November, why was a complaint not filed then? Dave had tried to broker peace between the two and yet he has been arrested?”
 
 Savla, who was earlier arrested in 2007 in the Shiv Sena corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar murder case, was acquitted in 2008. He was also arrested under MCOCA for financing Arun Gawli’s gang, which allegedly had a hand in Jamsandekar’s murder.
 
 
