MUMBAI: It’s a battle between two veterans for Essar Steel — one which is looking to make a mark in the country and the other that wants to retain the family’s crown jewel. ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steel producer, will compete with Numetal, the latest commodities entrant, which is backed by  , the founders of Essar Steel. 

 On Monday, billionaire Lakshmi Mittal’s ArcelorMittal, through its India arm, placed its bid for Essar Steel, which has been put on the block through the insolvency process. Numetal has been set up in Mauritius by Ruias in a majority partnership with Russia’s leading bank  . Rewant Ruia, the younger son of  , is spearheading the family’s interest in Numetal, as reported by TOIon February 7. 
 
 Mittal said Essar Steel is a “compelling opportunity” to “enter the high growth Indian steel market”. The $69-billion ArcelorMittal recently sold its stake in Uttam Galva, which too is facing insolvency proceedings, so that it could qualify to bid for Essar Steel. One of the largest players in the country, Essar Steel owes Rs 47,500 crore to lenders, but its total debt including to other creditors and suppliers stands at Rs 78,000 crore. 
 
 Anil Agarwal’s Vedanta, Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Steel and  , which were seen as contenders, didn’t participate in Monday’s auction process. Both ArcelorMittal and Numetal have submitted an attractive ‘cash offer’. However, there is speculation that ArcelorMittal’s bid is in excess of the loan amount due to lenders. 
 
 Besides the financial proposal, Arcelor-Mittal’s offer included a detailed plan to improve Essar Steel’s performance and profitability. ArcelorMittal, however, did not reveal the details of the plan for Essar Steel or whether it was bidding as part of a consortium. ArcelorMittal has joint venture partnerships with Nippon Steel and   to acquire assets in various global markets. 
 
 A deal for Essar Steel through the insolvency process is likely to go through if the bids are in excess of the liquidation value of the company, which is placed at Rs 22,000 crore. The government has barred defaulting promoters from submitting a resolution plan for getting the company back on track either directly or through front companies. 
 
 However, promoters can still have a go at retaining their assets by repaying all the dues to bankers. In the case of Essar Steel, banks have not recalled the loan, which means that Ruias can bid by repaying the interest overdues and penalties.
