The fact that   are being endorsed by experts as an effective way to   might surprise you. Health experts have come up with a solution in which using nose plugs can actually help people to lose weight. It is especially for those who are experiencing obesity issues and are on dieting. This is because using nose plugs block the sense of smell and in turn, people tend to eat less and this results in  .

  
 
 
  Nose plugs are inserted in both nostrils and air is directed away from the smell receptors. This helps in suppressing appetite. As overweight people are more sensitive to food smells, using these nose plugs helps them to curb obesity.
 
  
 
 
  A study was conducted to check if disabling the sense of food smell can help dieters lose weight. This study was conducted on obese adults, who were under the age of 50. It was found that those who used nose plugs lost twice as much as other dieters!
 
  Initially, these adults weighed 107 kilos and were on dieting. The aim of the researchers was to reduce their calorie intake by 500 calories.
 
  The trial was done for three months and it was found that on an average, they lost 7.7 per cent of their body weight.
 
  Experts also realised that people who suffer from frequent cold have reduced appetite. This is what inspired doctors to develop these smell-blocking nose plugs. Experts are also of the opinion that this practice should be followed by people before they opt for any other extreme weight loss methods.
 
  
 
 
  One of the researchers said, "Our pilot trial found the device significantly decreased the ability smell. And additional weight loss in under-50s using it was significant." (sic) He added, ‘'those who used the device used much less sugar, artificially sweetened and sugary drinks and alcohol. This is something that could be tried before they have something more extreme such as surgery. It’s not medicine and it’s not something that has to be prescribed."
 
  Experts further add that the longer this device is worn, the better would be the results. They believe that it can be used throughout the day as these nose plugs are just like contact lenses. All you have to do is plug this device in the morning and before you go off to sleep, remove them.
 
  The same device should not be used for more than two weeks. After two weeks, get a new pair. Experts also noticed that people who used this device had changed their food preferences.
 
  
  
 
 
