MUMBAI: For the first time, the   has recommended action against a senior architect under the RERA Act for misleading the BMC to get an occupation certificate (OC) for an 'incomplete' building at Borivli. 

 Architect Manoj Dubal, former president of Practising Engineers Architects & Town Planners Association (PEATA), allegedly submitted a certificate to the BMC stating the building work of Gundecha Trillium near   has been completed as per the BMC-approved plan in November 2017. Surprisingly, based on his certificate, the BMC issued an OC. 
 
 The tribunal found his claims were false and a lot of work remained. It subsequently recommended action.
 
 Dubal said, "I was not given an opportunity to explain my stance before the order was passed."
 
  Architect association members reacted strongly, stating four BMC officials inspected the building after Dubal submitted his certificate and they had given their approval to it along with the chief fire officer after which the BMC issued OC. 
 
 Senior architect Shirish Sukhatme of PEATA said, "BMC officials as well as BMC-approved consultant have given approval. Despite this, the   passed the order against the architect without providing him an opportunity to explain his case."
 
  The developer had promised to give possession to flat owners in December 2016. When he failed to do so, some flat owners approached RERA seeking compensation for the delay. The RERA authority ruled in their favour. Developer, Sea Princes Realty, challenged the order before the Appellate Authority constituted under RERA. 
 
  The Appellate Authority, too, passed an order in favour of flat buyers. Its order says the certificate was issued by Dubal though the project was incomplete. It highlighted incomplete work pertaining to water supply, recreational activities and club house, stating the staircase was in a shabby state and the lobby was incomplete. "Yet the promoter desires that the allottee (flat owners) should occupy the premises and release the balance liabilities," reads the order. 
 
 It asked the secretary of MahaRERA to independently initiate action under the RERA provisions against Dubal for issuing a factually incorrect certificate to the BMC.
 
 
