Nagpur: In the absence of government certified centre authorized to administer Yellow fever vaccine in the second capital of Maharashtra, travellers to African and South American countries from Nagpur will have to continue to either travel to Mumbai for the vaccination or shell out double or triple the cost to get it from the private sector. Yellow fever vaccination is mandatory for the people travelling to 33 African and 11 South American countries where this disease is endemic. The vaccine costs between Rs1300-1500 in a government set up in other cities, but the same is sold in private hospitals for nothing less than Rs6,000. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) as well as the Daga Memorial Hospital (DMH) had applied for setting up a Yellow fever vaccination centre a few years back, but the central government has not given a nod yet. The Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) had been vaccinating tourists occasionally until about 2-3 years back but it too had to stop that as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) rejected the certification by the IGGMC as it was not a recognized centre. Tourists had to buy the vaccine from private shops or the lone private hospital (Hope Hospital) which has the permission to administer this vaccine. Sources in the GMCH said that two doctors were trained at Mumbai by the public health department as a precondition for setting up the centre but apparently the state government has not forwarded the proposal to the Centre. Meanwhile, the DMH was selected as a centre due to the efforts of the state public health department. The centre was supposed to take off in July 2016 but has not taken off yet thanks to the typical bureaucratic hassles. The vaccination centre comes under the purview of the district civil surgeon. Since there is no civil hospital in the city, the centre was given a space in the DMH. Dr Seema Parvekar, medical superintendent of the DMH, told TOI that a team from the directorate of Family Welfare Training Centre had already conducted an inspection. The DMH, as per the norms, had trained five personnel, a doctor, nurse, pharmacist, attendant and a clerk. But the trained doctor has been transferred elsewhere and hence the hospital needs to train another doctor. “We have written to the authorities for training another doctor. We are awaiting the permission. Once this is done, the central government will start supplying the vaccine,” said Dr Parvekar. Two big travel agencies in the city told TOI that they send about 20-25 tourists to African and South American countries annually. Considering that there are around 20-25 travel agents/ operators in the city, the number of persons who need the vaccine could be 250-300 annually. Dr Satish Pawar, public health director, told TOI that the issue was mainly supply related. If the government can manufacture more quantity of the vaccine, it will give permission to new centres. It is gradually starting more centres depending on the supply.