Tuticorin: Land acquisition process for the expansion of the Tuticorin Airport is in full swing and it is expected to be completed by the end of June, district collector N Venkatesh told reporters here on Wednesday. So far, 410.85 acres have been acquired for the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the remaining 190.08 acres would be acquired in two months, he said. Venkatesh said this after handing over 44.61 acres to the AAI here on Wednesday. The land documents were received by airport director N Subramanian. “The 600.93 acres that had to be acquired for the airport expansion were divided into 13 blocks. On July 21, 2017, 366.24 acres acquired in seven blocks – block 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 9 and 10 – under the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of Land for Industrial Purpose Act 1997 were handed over to the AAI. Today (Wednesday), we handed over 44.61 acres acquired in block 8,” the collector said. Stating that the land owners would be properly compensated under the revised compensation according to the new Land Acquisition Act, 2013, Venkatesh added that the state government has taken up the expansion work seriously and has allotted Rs 9 crore in the budget for land acquisition. The airport director thanked the government and district administration for quickening the land acquisition process. Subramanian told reporters that with the 68% land having been acquired so far, the AAI would begin the runway expansion works on both sides of the existing runway. “It can be made 2,500m long and 45m wide. It will be sufficient to land an aircraft that is as big as the A320. Construction of the boundary wall for the acquired land at Rs 7.75 crore is in the tender stage,” the airport director said. He added that construction of the airport’s terminal building, airport control tower, fire station and other facilities would begin soon after completion of the land acquisition. “We hope that the construction works will be completed and thrown open to the public in 2020. This airport has good passenger potential,” he said. Subramanian also hinted that IndiGo is planning to operate between Chennai and Tuticorin soon. “They have talked about it AAI officials and are conducting the feasibility study. They may begin operations from June,” he added. At present, only SpiceJet is operating to the Tuticorin Airport. He further said that the airport would soon be getting a fuelling station. “As we don’t have a fuelling station, the flight from Chennai has to carry double the fuel to make the return flight to Chennai. Indian Oil Corporation is installing the station. It will be commissioned in June,” he said and added that this could attract more airlines to Tuticorin.