MADURAI: Highlighting poor quality of prosecution and plummeting conviction rate in criminal cases, Madras high court bench has lambasted   government for appointing inept lawyers as prosecutors.

 A division bench of   and Justice   said: “The government is not interested in appointing suitable advocates to prosecute criminal cases. Nowadays, heinous crimes are increasing, whereas conviction rate is coming down.”
 
 Ticking off the government for having appointed 10 lawyers as additional public prosecutors, violating rules, the bench also warned that it would initiate suo motu contempt of court proceedings against the government and summon the law secretary, if it was found that the government had violated court orders concerning the procedure to be followed while appointing new law officers. It also directed the Bar council to produce details such as proceedings, if any, pending against these new law officers. 
 
 The judges said that when it was brought to the notice of the court that government appointed many advocates with criminal background and inexperience to the post of government pleader and government advocates in subordinate courts, the high court permitted the government to appoint eligible people as additional public prosecutors (APPs) to the high court by following rules.
 
 “You yourself violated your own rules. You have appointed many people as APPs, though they were not even practicing before the high court. Appointing ineligible advocates to such post would affect the justice delivery system,” said the judges.
 
 The case relates to a PIL filed by advocate A   who said the government did not follow its own newly framed Appointment of Law Officers of High Court of Madras and its Bench at Madurai (Appointment) Rules, 2017 while selecting additional public prosecutors.
 
 Responding to the plea, additional advocate-general of Tamil Nadu submitted that the government had made the impugned appointments as per Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
 
 The bench then directed the AAG to produce all files relating to the appointment of advocates as APPs to the high court’s principal seat in Chennai as well as the Madurai bench. It also directed the court’s registry to file report as to number of cases and in which of those had these APPs appeared representing the government. 
 
 
