KOLKATA: A number of sculptures by   at Visva-Bharati are still awaiting their bronze casting to begin despite the Union HRD ministry having allocated funds to the tune of Rs 8.9 crore. On the eve of Baij’s birth anniversary on Saturday, art lovers fear that delaying the preservation work might mean losing them forever.

 
 Last December, it was decided that the project for bronze casting would be carried out by the   (NGMA) in New Delhi. According to Goutam Das, principal of  , “The   has formed a committee for this job. Despite being the principal of Kala Bhawan, I wasn’t kept in the original committee. AI was included only after I spoke to the vice-chancellor on this issue.”
 
 Das admitted that there is “an unwanted delay” in starting the work. “Conservation work is in progress. We have had a meeting with NGMA in Delhi. In the first week of June, we are going to have another meeting. The work has to begin soon. A survey has to be done on who will do the casting. Besides, a reputable sculptor has to be entrusted with the job of supervising the work,” Das added.
 
 Incidentally, most of Baij’s works, made of laterite pebbles and cement which have eroded with time, are displayed outside. In the 60s, one of Baij’s sculptures — “Harvester” — was broken into three pieces while being moved. “The sanction of the project was completed by December. I’m grateful that the government had approved the budget. These are national treasures and their casting should be completed before any further deterioration,” said former provice chancellor  .
 
 However, art historian R Siva Kumar, who had authored a book titled ‘Ramkinkar Baij’, cautioned that a project like this can’t be “rushed”. “People have been trying to do this since the 80s. There were several unsuccessful attempts to do the casting. We are currently placed in a better position than before to do this work. The government’s commitment towards this project is heartening. One now has to find the right people to do this work. That can’t be done in a hurry,”   said.
 
 According to NGMA director-general Adwaita Gadanayak, “The HRD ministry has informed me that the funds are already with Visva-Bharati. We at NGMA will do the planning. Everything will be decided at the June meeting.”
 
 Meanwhile, Das is also hoping to receive funds to get bronze casting done for Baij’s incomplete works. He is looking at the first phase of work to get over by 2019. That will be just in time before Kala Bhawan celebrates its centenary year.
 
 
