GURUGRAM: Illegal construction continues unabated in the environmentally fragile   despite a   ban. 

 On Friday, construction work resumed on a plot of land in Ankhir village on Badkal-Surajkund Road. A banquet hall is believed to be coming up there on a plot spread across 2.5 acre.
 
 The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had revoked all permission to carry out construction work on the plot on April 14 and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) had subsequently sealed the site in the wake of an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). An environmental activist had moved the green court against the construction last month, citing the apex court’s ban.
 
 Environmentalists said the construction firm had moved Punjab and Haryana high court against MCF. 
 
 Varun Sheokand, the green activist who moved the NGT, said, “The high court instructed the MCF not to proceed with any action against the respondent (construction company). However, it didn’t give permission to the firm to resume construction at the site. It is unfortunate despite the Supreme Court’s blanket ban on all types of construction activities in the Aravalis issued in 2004, rules are still being flouted.”
 
 As the area comes under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab and Haryana Land Protection Act (PLPA), 1990, any kind of construction is a non-forest activity and a violation of the Forest Conservation Act.
 
 Sunil Harsana, a resident of Mangar, said, “This is the second attempt to resume construction at the site since the HSPCB revoked the permissions and assured NGT that construction will be stopped. On Friday, I saw more than 20 labourers working at the site. The construction is still going on. Not only trees have been cleared at the site, the construction site has been dug 40 to 50 metres deep.” 
 
 Some activists blamed the forest department for rising illegal construction activities in the Aravalis. “Illegal construction for a banquet hall in Akhir is a perfect example of how environmental laws are violated in the city. Illegal construction leads to tree-cutting and disturbs the ecological balance. However, our multiple complaints to the forest department only fall on deaf ears. Some forest officials are clearly hand in gloves with the land mafia,” said Jitender Bhadana from Save Aravalis, an NGO.
 
 Sources in MCF said they sought support of the state government to stop the illegal construction. “The land mafia can’t befool the high court. We are working on a strong response to the petition, involving the state government. Strict action will be taken against the land mafia. They can’t escape simply by filing a petition in the high court,” said an official at MCF. The corporation has to file its response in the high court by May 22. 
 
 An official of the company involved in the construction said, “It is not an illegal site. The matter has already been taken up in the high court. We are engaged in legal activities only,” said Bhatia.
 
 
