Mumbai: After an animated hearing and some amount of waiting, Wednesday ended with the   on top as the Bombay high court extended its interim stay against launch of new   contracts by   (SGX) till May 26. An NSE subsidiary had moved the high court here against   to prevent the launch of Nifty-based products by the Singapore bourse by June 4.

  Ltd (IISL), a subsidiary of NSE, had moved the HC with an arbitration petition against Singapore Exchange Derivatives Trading for a stay against what it alleged was SGX’s attempt to breach a licence agreement and misuse NSE’s goodwill by the proposed launch of three new contracts called  ,   and SGX Indian Bank Futures. 
 
 On May 21, justice S J Kathawalla, after hearing NSE counsel Vivek Menon, had passed an interim order directing SGX not to launch new derivatives contracts based on its April 11 circular.
 
 On Wednesday, there was no consensus from both sides on terms forsending the dispute to arbitration. SGX lawyers Shiraz Rustomjee and Ameet Naik put forward a draft consent order, saying it was agreeable to go to a sole arbitrator. 
 
 Then NSE’s senior counsel, A M Singhvi, suggested terms which said that the April circular would not be enforced till June 4 or pending arbitration, and the HC order be mentioned in every marketing material and notification. 
 
 Senior counsel Gaurav Joshi for SGX said its statement was that “the product will not be launched till June 4”. But Singhvi pointed out that the circular essentially is also an invitation for people to migrate to SGX’s new platform. The judge asked SGX legal team why the Singapore officials were not in court. It would have aided in taking instructions. The matter is now kept for further hearing on May 26. In the meantime, both sides may still try to look for a mutually acceptable solution to refer the dispute to arbitration.
 
 The NSE subsidiary provides indices and index-related services. In February, it issued a termination notice against an existing licence contract with SGX since 2014. The termination was to take effect from August 12, 2018. Indian exchanges, in an attempt to curb migration of traders, had decided to bar overseas bourses from trading in Nifty derivatives. In April, SGX announced a new product which NSE said amounts to selling “unlicensed products’’ in alleged misappropriation of IISP’s “proprietary creation’’ of “NIFTY 50, one of two most well known share indices of India”, trademark for “unjust enrichment’’.
 
 
