GURUGRAM: Union minister for heavy industries and public enterprises   on Tuesday inaugurated four test facilities in the International Centres for Automotive Technology ( ) II in Manesar. The new facilities include a Noise Vibration & Harshness (NVH) Lab, an Electro-Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) Lab, a Passive Safety Lab (PSL, also called Crash Test Lab) and a Tyre Test Lab (TTL).

 
 “The two ICATs, set up with an investment of Rs 1,100 crore, have in total 16 different world-class testing facilities,” Geete said. 
 
 “Only a test track facility remains to be set up here, after which ICAT Manesar will become a full-fledged test centre. Every type of test for the automotive industry will be available here. Our target is to get low-emission vehicles, and from there to move to no-emission vehicles. Now we have CNG cars, the next step is electric vehicles,” he added.
 
 ICAT Manesar is located in India’s northern automotive hub, set up under National Automotive Testing and R&D Infrastructure Project (NATRIP), which has six such centres in the country. Spread over eight acre, ICAT I has 10 different testing facilities, with ICAT II, spread over 46.6 acre, housing the other six. ICAT I was also inaugurated by Geete in February 2016.
 
 “All automobile firms are manufacturing various types of vehicles in India. Along with Pune in Maharashtra and Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Haryana has become one of India’s auto hubs. Earlier, one had to rush abroad for even small tests, but now all types of state-of-the-art facilities will be available here,” the minister said.
 
 The NVH Lab is equipped with state-of-the-art facilities such as semi-anechoic chamber with dynamometer capabilities for passenger cars and heavy commercial vehicles, modal analysis room, coupled acoustic rooms and listening room. The passenger car semi-anechoic chamber has capability to simulate external regulatory requirements. Likewise, the EMC Lab is designed to carry out testing and development. It has a vehicle semi-anechoic chamber for accommodating all types of vehicles, ranging from two-wheelers to HCVs, for electromagnetic emissions and immunity.
 
 The PSL is capable of performing crash tests, pedestrian protection tests and sled tests as per various Indian and international regulations, and is equipped with world-class facilities including a full-fledged crash test facility to conduct full frontal, frontal OBD, side impact, rear impact, etc., crash tests. It has all types of instrumented crash dummies with dummy calibration facility, high speed cameras, specialised lighting, on-board data acquisition system, soak room, pedestrian protection test facility, deceleration sled test facility, airbag test facility, etc.
 
 The TTL provides services related to type approval and conformity of production of tyres. ICAT has transformed this lab into a centre of excellence by developing new capabilities, including dual station endurance test rig and tyre rolling resistance test rig.
 
 
