TRICHY: Condemning the Union government for not constituting the   Management Board (CMB), political parties and students staged protests across the city and suburbs on Monday. Over 250 protesters were arrested for staging rail and road blockades while traders have planned to observe a general shut down on Tuesday by extending support to farmers demanding due share of Cauvery water.

 DMK cadres led by former MLA K N Sekaran and urban district secretary   took part in the protest against the Union government in   and near central bus stand respectively on Monday. More than 200 protesters were detained by the police. 
 
 Cadres of   at Srirangam railway station staged rail roko protest by halting the Cuddalore bound passenger train, as many as 37 protesters were detained in the incident by Srirangam police. Students of EVR college in KK Nagar had also staged a demonstration near the campus to condemni BJP led central government for not protecting the interest of Tamil Nadu farmers. Similar protests were held across Pudukkottai, Karur and delta districts. 
 
 In Sirkazhi town of   district, six cadres of Tamilaga Vazhvurimai Katchi climbed atop a mobile network tower near the old bus stand. They were detained by police after a 30 minute struggle.
 
 As protests have been gaining momentum across the state, traders, in a bid to render their support for the Cauvery Management Board, have planned to observe a day long general shutdown across the district on Tuesday. 
 
 “All the traders have accepted for a general strike from 6 am to 6 pm on Tuesday to condemn the Union government for delaying the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board,” said V Govindarajalu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu. 
 
 As many as 90,000 shops across the district including 60,000 shops in the city are expected to remain closed till 6pm on Tuesday. AIADMK party cadres have also planned for a day long hunger strike in Trichy with the participation of MPs P Kumar and T Rathinavel.
 
 
