CHANDIGARH: With the Supreme Court shifting the   rape and murder case to a district court in Pathankot, it will be the second case from Jammu and Kashmir that has been shifted to this region for prosecution.

 Earlier, trial of the infamous J&K sex scandal involving several politicians and bureaucrats from the state had been shifted “in the interest of justice” to Chandigarh on the directions of the apex court, as it was not possible for the CBI to prosecute the accused under the charged atmosphere. The trial of the sex scandal, which was probed by the CBI, was still pending at a special CBI court in Chandigarh.
 
 According to legal experts, the trial of the Kathua rape-murder case will now be conducted in the court of a district and sessions judge, Pathankot. As per the procedure, now the entire record of the case will be shifted to the Pathankot court. The prosecution of the accused shall remain with the Jammu and Kashmir government.
 
 However, Punjab advocate general (AG) Atul Nanda said a prosecutor by the state government could be appointed for the trial of the case. The accused, however, would be entitled to engage lawyers in their defence. A senior lawyer of the Punjab and   high court said that normally the prosecutors from the state where the case has been registered were allowed to represent during the trial of a case outside the home state. “However in Gujarat’s Zahira Sheikh case, the apex court had transferred the trial from Gujarat to Maharastra and also directed the prosecutors from Maharastra to plead the case. Unless SC defines in its orders, the case would be pleaded by the Jammu and Kashmir government lawyers. The accused, however, would have the right to engage lawyers from anywhere,” the senior advocate confirmed on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The J&K sex scandal case, which was shifted by the SC in 2006 from Kashmir to Chandigarh, was probed by the CBI. In that case there were a total 14 accused and the trial was shifted to Chandigarh after the bar in Srinagar had restrained local lawyers from representing the accused. The case is still pending at a Chandigarh CBI court even as eight of the 14 accused have been acquitted during the trial after the victim in that case had turned hostile.
 
 
