CHANDIGARH: The operation theatre (OT) complex of the   where a spark led to a fire and patients had to be shifted to prevent any mishap on Wednesday night, has been closed for this week for fumigation. No case of injury or casualty has been reported. The fire broke out around 10pm.

 The spark started in one of the seven OTs on the third floor of the   where gynaecology surgeries are mainly conducted. “OT number 3 is a reserve kind of a theatre where caesarean cases come only when they can't be adjusted in labour room OT. This was the room where the spark started,” said an OT technician.
 
 Sources said the anaesthesia machines, table, other instruments and monitors in OT number 3 have become dysfunctional after the incident. The operation theatre now requires major repair work.
 
 “The patients who were shifted last night to other wards have been moved back,” said  , deputy director, administration, PGI.
 
 On Thursday, two committees were constituted to investigate the cause and assess the losses incurred in the fire.
 
 While one of the committees shall be chaired by Dr  , dean, research, the other will be headed by Dr GD Puri, sub-dean, research. The gynaecology related surgeries would now be perfomed in the trauma operation theatre as the latter has an extra bed. 
 
 Though no official statement from the hospital has confirmed the cause of the fire, sources say that there was a short circuit. “When a paramedical staff was disposing of the needles in the cutter, then the spark started from the cutter. However, it's not certain whether that caused the fire,” said an employee of the hospital, who was present at the time of the incident. 
 
 As the fire was a minor one, it could be doused within a few minutes.
 
 “There are many chemicals inside the operation theatre and there is risk as even a minor spark can cause fire. The machines and equipments in the theatre are outlived,” said a technician.
 
 A statement issued by the PGI on Wednesday mentioned that at the time of the incident surgical procedures were going on in three operation theatres. 
 
 After the incident occurred, security and fire office of the PGI sprung into action and all the patients from operation theatres were rescued and shifted to safer areas. The patients admitted in adjoining wards and corridors were also shifted to other suitable wards or ICUs to avoid any untoward incident, as smoke spread out in the nearby wards. 
 
 It eas only around 1.00am, when all the services were restored and patients were shifted back to their respective wards, where they were shifted from.
 
 
