NAGPUR: The slow start to the early morning musical event   at South Central Zone Cultural Zone matched the dull mood cast by the cloudy Sunday morning. Taking the stage was Hindustani classical vocalist Bharati Singh   from Raipur.

 Starting some half an hour behind schedule, Rajput began her presentation with a morning raag   with an extended aalap before moving to a bandish ‘Lagan lagi re’. She deliberated upon the finer nuances of the raag and ended with another short bandish composed by  , ‘Gandharv aasan karo’ in drut Ek Taal through which she managed to hold the attention of a small gathering present at the recital.
 
 Rajput, who began her training in classical music under the tutelage of Tilak Das Mahant and  , illustrated the styles associated with Gwalior gharana of music.
 
 Currently learning under Mira Rao, a disciple of Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan and Kumar Gandharv, Rajput’s training was evident as she presented a Kabir bhajan ‘Jheeni jheeni chunariya’ which bore the stamp of Kumar Gandharv, but only just about managed to hold the attention of an audience which has heard great maestros at this event.
 
 Moving out of her comfort zone with a Marathi abhang of Manik Varma, ‘Ananta ant nako pahu’, she received a tepid applause from the audience which failed to connect with her at this concert.
 
 Having performed in various musical festivals in various states, Rajput is also an accomplished violin player and is working with the finance and planning department of the government of Chhattisgarh.
 
 Mug with quote: (only one mug so far as the other two numbers are not responding)
 
 The artiste today was jittery and it showed in her performance. I lost connect with her during the long swar vistaar and even when the ‘Bada Khayal began, she could strike the right notes. She too didn’t make any effort to connect with the audience
 
 Mrunal Naik | student 
 
 This was the first time I attended this early morning music concert and thoroughly enjoyed the ambience and the musical presentation. The two bhajans were very well rendered
 
 Prateek Jain | lecturer
 
 
