PATNA: The legislative council witnessed unruly scenes on Friday with even members of ruling parties criticising the government over poor education scenario in the state.

 Citing All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) 2016-17 data, BJP MLC   said universities and colleges in Bihar were lagging behind other states in terms of infrastructure and other facilities. “There are just eight colleges for one lakh students in Bihar against the national average of 28 colleges per one lakh students,” the MLC said quoting the survey report. To this, parliamentary affairs minister   said the government was in the process of establishing degree colleges in 18 sub-divisions across the state.
 
 JD(U) MLC   expressed concern over delay in payment of salary to teachers of government schools. He said the government should take action against the officials concerned for delay in releasing teachers’ salary.
 
 Earlier, members of the opposition RJD demanded adjournment of the House over government’s failure to improve education scenario in the state. They created a ruckus in the House over the issue of BEd question paper leak. The RJD legislators also cornered the government for failure of maize crop in the state due to alleged supply of poor quality of seeds.
 
 Moving the adjournment motion, RJD legislator Sanjay Prasad said the farmers, who had spent more than Rs 25,000 per acre on the maize crop by taking loans from banks and moneylenders, would commit suicide if the government failed to compensate them for the loss. Subodh Kumar, another RJD member, echoed Prasad’s tone. The RJD members trooped into the well of the House, demanding immediate resignation of the state agriculture minister. Minister Shravan Kumar said the government would take action against those found guilty of supplying poor quality of seeds to the farmers.
 
 The House members also raised the issue of hardships being faced by students while registering for Classes X and XII examinations conducted by  . JD (U) MLC Sanjeev Kumar Singh said students have no other option but to visit the ‘vasudha kendras’ run by private agencies for registration due to lack of computers.
 
 
