Navratri is one of the most popular Hindu festivals that is dedicated to worshipping the nine avatars of Goddess Durga, namely– Shailaputri, Brahmacharini, Chandraghanta, Kushmanda, Skanda Mata, Katyayani, Kalaratri, Mahagauri, and Siddhidatri. They are celebrated four times a year but the most popular ones are Sharad and Chaiytra navratri. The Chaiytra navratri starts on March 18th this year, and the festival marks the transition from spring to summers. Here’s all you need to know to celebrate this auspicious occasion…

 The first day of navratras is called Pratipada and people worship Goddess Shailputri, also known as Bhavani, Parvati or Hemavati, on this day. ‘Shail’ means mountains and ‘putri’ means daughter. Hence, she is called Shailputri—daughter of a mountain. She is depicted carrying Trishul (trident) in her right hand and a lotus flower in the one. The Goddess is seen mounted on Nandi (a bull). She rules the planet Mars, and worshipping her believed to provide good fortune.
 
 The prayer rituals of the first day start with Ghatasthapna, where devotees sow the seeds (generally barley) of grains in a clay pot (kalash). It signifies the invocation of the Goddess and is not done during Amavasya and night time. It is decorated with vermilion (kumkum), turmeric and flowers, and is placed along with the idol of Goddess Durga. Many decorate the place where the idol and pot with coconut and mango leaves. The devotee takes care of the kalash by watering it every day and offering prayers. 
 
 
  
  The puja generally starts with placing a tilak on the forehead of the idol and washing the feet with holy water with hands. The idol is offered flowers, fruits, prasad and devotees chant mantras and recite aarti. Apart from this, followers light a lamp in desi ghee for nine days, and read a chapter of Durga Saptshathi every day. Also, many devotees start fasting from this day. Interestingly, fasting during this time is considered healthy. Wondering why? It is because this is the time when the weather is changing. Our immunity levels are generally low and binging on heavy food can invite minor infections and diseases. Fasting during navratras helps to maintain a light diet (majorly fruits and milk) and in turn, detoxify the body.
 
 
 
 Brahm Sanatan Devi, Shubh Phal Ki Data.Om Jay …
 Jag Jivan Jagdamba, Harihar Gun Gata
 Om Jay …
 Singh Ko Vahan Saje, Kundal Hai Satha.
 Dev Vadhu Jaha Gavat, Nritya Karat Ta Tha.
 Om Jay …
 Satyug Shil Susundar, Nam Sati Kahlata.
 Hemanchal Ghar Janmi, Sakhiyan Rangrata.
 Om Jay …
 Shumbh Nishumbh Vidare, Hemanchal Syata.
 Sahas Bhuja Tanu Dharike, Chakr Liyo Hatha.
 Om Jay …
 Srishti Rup Tu Hi Janani, Shiv Sang Rangrata.
 Nandi Bhrangi Been Lahi, Sara Madmata.
 Om Jay …
 Devan Araj Karat Ham, Chit Ko Lata.
 Gavat De De Tali, Man Mein Rangrata.
 Om Jay …
 Shri Pratap Arati Maiya Ki, Jo Koi Gata.
 Sada Sukhi Nit Rahta, Such Sampati Pata.
 
 
  
 
 Devotees should chant following mantra, shlokas and stutis to worship goddess Shailputri Maa on the first day of Navratri.
 
 ➧Om Devi ShailputryaiSwaha, (108 times recitation suggested)
 
 ➧ Maa Shailputri Mantra:
 वन्दे वाञ्छितलाभाय चन्द्रार्धकृतशेखराम्।
 वृषारुढां शूलधरां शैलपुत्रीं यशस्विनीम्॥
 Vande Vanchhitalabhay chandrardhakritshekharam 
 Vrisharudham Shooldharam Shailputreem Yashasvineem 
 
 ➧ Maa Shailputri Stuti:
 या देवी सर्वभूतेषु माँ शैलपुत्री रूपेण संस्थिता।
 नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमो नमः॥
 Ya Devi Sarvabhuteshu Maa Shailaputri Rupena Samsthita 
 Namastasyai Namastasyai Namastasyai Namo Namah
 
 
  
 ➧ Dhyana Mantra:
 वन्दे वाञ्छितलाभाय चन्द्रार्धकृतशेखराम्।
 वृषारूढां शूलधरां शैलपुत्रीं यशस्विनीम्॥
 पूणेन्दु निभाम् गौरी मूलाधार स्थिताम् प्रथम दुर्गा त्रिनेत्राम्।
 पटाम्बर परिधानां रत्नाकिरीटा नामालंकार भूषिता॥
 प्रफुल्ल वन्दना पल्लवाधरां कान्त कपोलाम् तुगम् कुचाम्।
 कमनीयां लावण्यां स्नेमुखी क्षीणमध्यां नितम्बनीम्॥
 Vande Vanchhitalabhaya Chandrardhakritashekharam
 Vrisharudham Shuladharam Shailaputrim Yashasvinim
 Punendu Nibham Gauri Muladhara Sthitam Prathama Durga Trinetram
 Patambara Paridhanam Ratnakirita Namalankara Bhushita
 Praphulla Vandana Pallavadharam Kanta Kapolam Tugam Kucham
 Kamaniyam Lavanyam Snemukhi Kshinamadhyam Nitambani
 
 
 : Yellow
 
 : Mars
 
 Wishing you all a very Happy Navratri!
 
 
 
