CHANDIGARH: In an order having ramification on the exercise of contempt of court powers by the lower courts, the   and   high court has held that in every case, contempt need not be the omnibus remedy to uphold the dignity of the courts.

 HC was also of the view that every evil was not necessarily required to be dealt with by initiating contempt proceedings, and propriety and caution demands that before initiating suo motu proceedings the court should be circumspect in taking a decision in this regard.
 
 
 In its detailed orders, the HC observed that the very purpose of the Contempt of Court Act is manifest in its preamble wherein the words “define and limit”, while acknowledging the power of the courts to punish contemnors, also its limits.
 
 Division bench comprising   and Justice   has passed these orders recently while deciding a reference received from additional and sessions court   for initiation of contempt proceedings against two cops, including SHO Basti Bawa Khel, Jalandhar.
 
 While considering a bail application on behalf of accused, who were arrested in May 2017 in relation to snatching and charges under the NDPS Act, the additional sessions and sessions judge came across few blank papers signed by the accused in the investigation file produced before the court.
 
 The accused stated before the court that he along with coaccused had been arrested by the police officers who threatened them to implicate them falsely and got several blank papers signed from them.
 
 The Judge, prima facie finding the act of the police officers highly prejudicial to due course of judicial proceedings, made the reference in July 2017 to the HC for initiation of proceedings under the Contempt of Courts Act against them.
 
 Hearing the case, the bench observed that the act of cops in obtaining signatures to obstruct the administration of justice and amount to an offence under IPC. The court held that such act of the cops attracts an offence under section 192 of IPC (fabricating false evidence) for which the judge should have taken action.
 
 “While we do not approve the wrong allegedly committed by the contemnors, which prima facie tantamount to interference in judicial process, but every evil is not necessarily required to be dealt with by initiating contempt proceedings. Any attempt made by a police officer to create evidence for this securing conviction is required to be deprecated and cannot be tolerated but launching contempt proceedings when the same can also be effectively dealt with alternate provisions specifically provided for such conduct, should be avoided,” observed the HC.
 
 Representative image 
 
