Mangaluru: The New Year bash proved a little too expensive for 83 party freaks as the Mangaluru city traffic police booked them for driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol.  “We know that thousands have enjoyed liquor last night (December 31). However, in a bid to penalise them, we did not want to disturb others, especially families that came out of the houses just to enjoy a sumptuous meal and not drink,” said assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Manjunath Shetty. The traffic police had installed 30 check posts to curb rash driving and according to the ACP, the plan clicked as the city witnessed just one accident in city limits. The accident took place after 12am. Maximum of the cases were booked in Mangaluru east traffic police limits. As many as 30 cases were booked. Interestingly, the Mangaluru east traffic police limits encompass the areas that house most of the happening party places in the city. The jurisdiction covers the stretches from Kadri-Pumpwell, Kadri-Kulshekar (Sacred Heart Church), Kadri-Mangaladevi (Bolar) and Kadri-PVS Circle. The Mangaluru north traffic police registered 22 cases after 12am. Twenty cases of drink and drive were booked in the Mangaluru west traffic police station limits while the Mangaluru south traffic police booked only 11 cases. There was a 67% rise in the number of cases booked compared to last year. On December 31, 2016, the traffic police in the city limits had booked 56 drivers and riders.  Young violators The ACP said the majority of the motorists booked were below the age of 35. An official, who did not wish to be named, said cases were mainly booked against students, most of whom are imports from various parts of the country, as Mangaluru is the education hub. The police had booked drink and drive cases on Friday and Saturday as well. However, the numbers are much lower compared to the New Year eve. While 20 cases were booked on Friday, only five cases were booked on Saturday. One of the accused of drunken driving on Saturday is Congress leader Amruth Kadri. The police said as they were deployed on other duties, the drives on the two days were not effective enough.  ACP Shetty said the list of offenders was being prepared and would be submitted to the authority concerned for further action. Apart from suspension of driving licences, cash penalty ranges between Rs 1,000 and Rs 3,000, and can go up to Rs 5,000 for drink and drive cases.