PATNA: Online submission of application forms for admission to the conventional postgraduate degree courses of   (PU) for the next academic session will start on April 20, according to a university notification issued here on Friday. The details of   have been displayed on the   website.

 PU has already notified that the online submission of applications for undergraduate degree courses and postgraduate diploma and degree courses under self-financing mode will commence on April 9. The last date for submission of online applications for all the courses is May 14.
 
 The candidates may apply for such courses where admission is based on entrance test, but they would have to submit the copy of the mark sheet of the previous result before the finalization of the selection list for admission. However, submission of mark sheet along with the application forms for admission is mandatory for such courses where admission is based on the marks secured in the last qualifying examination.
 
 Courses offered by PU include MA, MSc, MCom, MEd and LL M ( regular PG degree courses), MA in rural studies, MBA, MSc in environmental science & management, MSc in biotechnology, MA in social work, women’s studies, journalism and mass communications, library and information science, MCA and MA in music (self-financing PG degree courses) and PG diploma courses in clinical psychology, applied criminology, human resource development, industrial safety management, computer applications, women and child welfare, women’s studies, yogic sciences and financial services.
 
 Courses offered at the undergraduate stage include three-year degree courses in BA, BSc, BCom and BFA honours (conventional regular mode) and BCom honours, B Lib & Inf. Science, BCA, BA in computer applications, BBA, Bachelor in mass communications, bachelor in social work, bachelor in biotechnology, functional English and environmental science (self-financing).
 
 PU has already announced that admission to all the undergraduate courses (conventional as well as self-financing) and post-graduate courses (self-financing) will be made on the basis of entrance test. However, a final decision on introducing the entrance test for admission to the regular MA, MSc and MCom courses is yet to be taken.
 
 Sources said if the choice-based credit system (CBCS) is implemented from the next academic session after chancellor’s nod, PU will have to go for entrance test even for regular  . In any case, admission to all the courses shall have to be completed by July 9, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha.
 
 
