NEW DELHI: A  , with   of   and   against him,   inside the   at Karawal Nagar police station on Tuesday morning.

 The accused was wanted in cases of assault, threats and molestation of a minor girl, who he had been trying to pursue for months, until she had approached the police.
 
 Cops arrested the man, Deepak, on Monday evening after the minor deposed before a magistrate and a non-bailable warrant was issued against him. Deepak was to be produced before the magistrate on Tuesday afternoon, but was found hanging from the ceiling around 10am.
 
 A magisterial inquiry has been initiated and four policemen, including a sub-inspector, have been suspended. One of the inspectors has been sent to District Lines.
 
 DCP (northeast) Ajit Singla said that departmental actions were taken against the erring policeman after it was found that the accused was kept in a room that had a girder. “There are separate rooms in police stations allotted for holding accused. They are built in such a way that accused do not hurt themselves,” he said.
 
 Sources said that Deepak was interrogated on Monday night and was asked to get dressed before being produced in the court. The sub-inspector, in charge of the investigation, had locked the door for him to change his clothes. When Deepak did not respond after a while, the policeman opened the door and found him hanging from the girder using a gamcha.
 
 The body was sent for an autopsy later in the evening. Initial probe, however, do not show any sign of injury. Meanwhile, Deepak’s family members staged a protest outside the police station alleging foul play. “We met Deepak at the police station last night. There was no sign of him being depressed. We don’t know what happened later that forced him to take this extreme step. We are demanding an inquiry into the incident,” said Ashok Kumar, Deepak’s uncle.
 
 Neighbours, however, said that Deepak had been staying at his friend’s house for the past few months as his father and uncle had disowned him after they came to know about his involvement in criminal cases.
 
 Deepak had been pursuing the girl, who stayed in the same neighbourhood, since last year. However, when the girl’s parents came to know about it, they asked him to stay away from her. Deepak had once allegedly barged into the girl’s house and thrashed her for refusing his advances. A case under sections of assault, molestation and criminal intimidation was registered at Karawal Nagar police station.
 
 In her complaint, the girl had also alleged that Deepak had recorded videos of her and threatened to upload them online. Following this, her family approached a magistrate demanding his arrest.
 
 During interrogation, Deepak claimed that he was upset that his family members had refused to support him, after which he had taken to a life of crime.
 
