NEW DELHI: Four members of a family died and an   was injured in a fire that engulfed a   in northwest Delhi’s   early on Friday. 

 
 
  
 
 The fire, which police believed to have started after a short circuit in the meter board on the ground floor around 2.40am, also charred several parked cars.
 
 Police said there were 21 people in the building when the fire broke out. While 17 were able to run to safety, five of them were trapped in the blaze. Four of them   of asphyxiation, the cops disclosed, while a 90-year-old man, who survived by using an oxygen mask till help arrived, has been hospitalised.
 
 The bodies of the four members of the Nagpal family, Rakesh (40), Tina (37), Himanshu (7) and Shreya (3), were found in separate locations on the first floor, which indicated that they might have struggled hard to find a way into the open. Rakesh ran a textile business in Chandni Chowk, while Tina was a housewife. 
 
 The cops said that the Nagpals had died due to asphyxiation since there seemed to be no other injuries on their bodies. 
 
 Bedridden Sharanjit Singh Bawa, 90, was left in his second floor flat by his family and was rescued by fire fighters. The Bawa family responded immediately to third-floor resident Surjit Singh’s loud shouts about the fire and tried to rush downstairs.
 
 “Smoke and fire had already engulfed the lower floors and there was no way we could have left the building,” said  , a BEd student. “We shifted our grandfather to the last room because he is bedridden and couldn’t have managed to run down. He also asked us to leave and save ourselves. We put an oxygen mask on his face before leaving him behind.” Once the fire tenders reached the building, firemen helped the nonagenarian out through a rear window.
 
 Surjit Singh told TOI that the Nagpal family might have been saved had the fire tenders arrived earlier. “I learnt of the fire on the ground floor after a person rang my doorbell and pointed at the sparks in the meter board,” said the survivor. “As I rushed downstairs with my wife and maid, I shouted an alert to the occupants, but the Nagpals didn’t react. We tried phoning them, to no avail. I wanted to go back and get them out, but seeing the fire spread rapidly, my frightened wife pulled me back.”
 
 The Jain family, all 11 of them living on the upper ground floor, heard Singh’s shouts and left their rooms in time to avoid any harm.
 
 The cops said that prima facie, the blaze was the result of a short circuit. According to a senior police officer, a case was registered at the Netaji Subhash Place police station and investigation has started. 
 
 Tata Power, the electricity supplier, however, contested the meter box claim. 
 
 A company statement said, “As per our preliminary investigation report, the fire could have been initiated from the distribution board/MCB and spread due to vehicles parked and wood in the vicinity. The fire did not initiate from the meter box, which was found intact with no bulging, decomposition or breakage, which generally happens in case of a short circuit. Also, the walls and adjoining areas of the meter box have no traces of soot, smoke or fire.”
 
 The fire department said that it took fire fighters over 90 minutes to bring the blaze under control. “We got a call about a fire in the meter board and sent two fire tenders to the house, but after realising it was a major blaze, we deployed six additional fire engines,” said Atul Garg, chief fire officer.
 
 
