With the Karnataka elections around the corner, politics and legislation has been permeating conversations all over the city. Students are no exception to this scenario, and are fitting right into this politically - charged environment with their zeal to bring changes and enforce their voting rights. However, on the occasion of the upcoming Mother’s Day, we asked students about their electoral views, but with a twist. We quizzed them about what political positions they’d consider best-suited for their mothers and here’s what they had to say… 

 “If my mother were to contest an election and win, I’d suggest the Ministry of Law and Justice for her. She’s a person who’s not afraid to speak the truth, however bitter it might be. She looks at people, dead in the eye, and tells them when they are wrong. Sugar-coating things is absolutely not her cup of tea. She wouldn’t bat an eyelid if she had to give a person the punishment that he/she deserve. I strongly believe that the ministry needs more people like her and then maybe, just maybe, the day will come when India will see a much lower crime rate than it is today,” 
 
 
 “If my mom had to stand for an election or any post at all, then I would like her to promote women’s empowerment by helping out women in rural and backward areas with means like self-employment, by taking on a role in the Ministry of Labour and Employment. I would like for my mother to be the unheard voice of the women who are unable to speak for themselves, and to help them gain independence and strength, financially or otherwise.” 
 
 
 “If it comes to any one parent of mine getting to power, I would definitely prefer my mom over my dad to stand for the elections — most probably for the post of our constituency’s MLA. Considering that the present government is dominated by men, I would like to see women stand up and take responsibilities to bring a change in our country. And since I am not yet eligible to do so, who better than my mother to see to it?” 
 
 
 Mothers are, very often, known for their innate ability to exercise control over situations and handle any crisis — no matter how big or small. Keeping this in mind, Anjali states, “If my mother stands for an election, then I would like to see her as a Speaker in the  , because she has an inbuilt talent to control everyone. She has a lot of patience and courage, and can judge anything within no time. This often turn outs to be correct, and I can’t think of a better person to enforce the discipline that current politics lacks” 
 
 Not all students had such a serious take on the matter, though. Mindful of their mothers’ habits and everyday concerns, some had a few light-hearted answers to give. “My mother is a big movie and TV addict. She has a strong opinion about anything that is even remotely connected with the entertainment industry, and she is on top of all issues of current topic. She would be an ideal   of Information and Broadcast,”
 
 “Hands down, my mother would make a great Minister of Home Affairs. She constantly worries about the general state of security at home, and in the country. She would be the right person to whip all the security forces into shape and ensure the safety and security of fellow citizens” 
 
 
 - Sanjana Sindhe
 
 
