THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Fishermen community in the state can now have residential dwellings built on a larger plinth area. Kerala coastal zone management authority has decided to enhance the maximum permissible limit of the existing   for construction/reconstruction of residential buildings in no-development zone (NDZ) from 66sq.m to 100sq.m. 

 The permissible plinth area has been revised on the basis of a report furnished by the technical experts of  .
 
 “It was a logical decision made based on popular demand. The decision to revise the plinth area was taken after considering the results of a survey. It showed that the average plinth area of a building in rural areas is 100 sq.m and that in urban area, it is around 115 sq.m and we decided to fix it at 100 sq.m,” said  , additional chief secretary, department of environment.
 
 The committee had assessed the average plinth area of residential buildings in panchayats, municipalities and corporations in 10 coastal districts of Kerala. The survey showed that the average plinth area of 3,093 buildings in a gram panchayat in Thiruvananthapuram was 102.41sq.m. In case of municipality in the capital, 11,519 houses have an average plinth area of 115.39 sq.m. Thiruvananthapuram corporation recorded the highest plinth area for dwellings in coastal areas as 183450 houses have an average plinth area of 132.84 sq.m
 
 “Basically people should have decent houses to live because a decent household is the right of a citizen. If somebody is going to have a personal area, just because it is in NDZ, there is no hard and fast rule that it has to be 66 sq.m, we judiciously decided to take average of constructions in coastal areas in panchayat, corporation and municipalities and after doing the exercise we arrived at 100sq.m,” said a senior official. As per CRZ rules, construction or reconstruction of dwelling units of traditional coastal communities including fisherfolk may be permitted between 100 and 200 metres from the high tide line along the seafront in accordance with a comprehensive plan prepared by the state government. 
 
 KCZMA has been receiving a major share of applications requesting a plinth area above 660sq.m, however most often the applications could not be entertained resulting in protests among the fishermen community. 
 
  KCZMA officials said that 100 sq.m limit for residential houses will be effective from now onwards and it is actually lesser than what the latest draft CRZ notification issued by ministry of environment and forests. As per the draft CRZ notification 2018 approval for self-dwelling units upto a built up area of 300 sq.mt can be accorded by the local authority concerned without the requirement of recommendations of CZMA. 
 
 
