MUMBAI: MNS chief   met NCP president   in Mumbai on Friday, triggering speculation of new political equations in the state. The meeting, held at Pawar’s Nepean Sea Road residence, lasted 40 minutes, it is learnt.

 There were reports that Raj requested Pawar to attend the MNS’ Gudi Padwa jamboree at Shivaji Park on Sunday where the MNS president is scheduled to address his followers. 
 
 NCP sources said Pawar could be thinking of having the MNS on board the Congress-NCP alliance in Maharashtra.
 
 For all practical purposes, Raj will flag off his party’s election campaign at the rally, it is said. Raj is believed to have told his party colleagues to tell mediapersons his meeting with Pawar was merely a “courtesy call.”
 
 Sources in the NCP said Pawar could be interested in Raj in a bid to woo Marathi voters, chiefly in the Mumbai metropolitan region. The idea is to make it tough for BJP to bond with the ‘sons of the soil,’ said analysts.
 
 “MNS may be on a weak wicket in political terms, but Raj’s personal popularity remains fairly intact. The GenNow Marathis, both from urban and rural areas, consider him a charismatic leader,” sources said. A section in the NCP wants Raj to be a component of the party’s poll campaign, given his speaking skills, it is said.
 
 Pawar and Raj have moved closer after the latter held an open- house interview with the NCP chief in Pune last month. The two-hour-long interview drew large crowds, especially young voters.
 
 Answering Raj’s questions, Pawar spoke of how Gujarati entrepreneurs were set to infiltrate Mumbai and Pune as the two cities have emerged as the country’s premier financial hubs.
 
 Pawar almost sounded like the late Bal Thackeray when he said Vasai and Mira-Bhayander were choc-a-bloc with Gujaratis. “I hardly see a Marathi signboard in the two bustling cities... They are more in Gujarati,” he said.
 
 Ruling out any move by New Delhi to turn Mumbai into a Centrally-ruled territory, Pawar said, touching a chord among the gathering, “Not even Gods can separate Mumbai from Maharashtra... And should someone try, we will join hands to thwart the plan.”
 
 Recalling that since the MNS’ inception in 2006 Raj has been talking of the “growing threat” to Marathis of Mumbai, Thane and Pune from the influx from Gujarat and elsewhere, a key MNS functionary said, “Pawar may be keen on working on this agenda to expand Congress-NCP’s electoral base across Maharashtra for the 2019 elections. There are traders’ influxes in Maharashtra’s villages too.”
 
 Experts said Pawar’s gameplan is two-fold: pull the rug from under BJP-Sena’s feet by playing the Marathi card with Raj in tow; and project NCP, in due course of time, as a party with true regional colours all set to occupy its place in New Delhi’s coalition politics.
 
 Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena will not vote in favour of the no-confidence vote, sponsored by the YSR Congress and TDP, against the Modi government. Stating this while talking to mediapersons in Mumbai on Saturday, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the no-confidence motion will in no way “affect” the Modi government. “NDA will complete its five-year tenure in office... There is no threat to the government,” he said.
 
 
