MADURAI:   resolved to offer regular academic programmes and weekend regular programmes partnering with educational institutions approved by the university from the academic year 2018–19. The proposal was placed for the approval at academic council meeting held at university premises on Monday.

 The resolution discussed on establishing Madurai Kamaraj University’s satellite regular academic programmes and weekend regular programmes in schools, colleges, any establishment or institutions approved by the university on revenue share basis of 40:60 in which 40% will be for university and 60% for educational partners, in view of expenses borne by them in arranging infrastructures, salary of faculty and non-teaching staff. The courses and the fee structures are decided based on the courses available at affiliated colleges of MKU.
 
 The university also proposed modalities to be adopted for the implementation of these academic programmes offered through satellite campus across Tamil Nadu. Students applying for the courses should have completed the prerequisite courses, like Plus 2 to join a UG course.
 
 It will be the responsibility of approved educational partners to arrange necessary infrastructure, staff and supporting staff. The one time approval fee on these partners to establish regular satellite academic programme is Rs 50,000 and renewal may be obtained once in three years on inspection after paying Rs 50,000.
 
 MoU will be signed with the partners regarding the programmes and the syllabi of all satellite courses will be same as the regular syllabi of various UG, PG and M Phil courses of the university. The examination will be conducted by by teaching staff of the university on semester basis.
 
 The partners may run satellite regular academic programme of the university or weekend regular programme or both and the course fee for these courses is as applicable to self-finance courses in regular colleges.
 
 Vice chancellor, P P Chellathurai presided over the academic council meeting and addressed the council members. New members of the council were also announced that inncluded Christianna Singh, principal of Lady Doak College, S Ramamoorthy, principal of Vellaichamy Nadar College under Faculty of Arts, M Abdul Kadir, principal of MSS Wakf Board College, D Pandiaraja, principal of Thiagarajar College and J Suresh, principal of Madura College.
 
 The academic council further resolved to change nomenclature of M A English and comparative literature to M A English to avoid equivalency problems, requesting syndicate to take efforts in filling up vacancies in teaching and non-teaching posts of the university, to conduct a placement event by inviting reputed companies, requesting the syndicate to consider the introduction of dummy number in valuation scheme and to conduct a special convocation for the students of directorate of distance education of MKU.
 
 
