NAGPUR: When city enthusiasts were celebrating the success stories in 'mainstream' sport like cricket and badminton,   was silently working hard to make a name in a less-known territory.

 
 Belonging to a conservative Muslim family, contact sport was almost a taboo. Still, passion for sport ran deep in the Pathan family. So, Alfiya (which means one of a kind) aspired to be a badminton player. She even started practising for it.
  
 But fate had planned something else for her. Watching brother Saquib, a boxer, practise at the  , Mankapur, changed the course of Alfiya's life. She got hooked to boxing. But actually taking up the sport was a big hurdle.
  
 She talked to her father about taking up the game seriously. Akram Khan Pathan, a police constable, consulted those close to him. Six of 10 opposed the idea. They wanted him to nip the weird idea in the bud. But, Akram Khan broke the norm, dared to think different and decided to let her daughter get into boxing. This was in 2015.
  
 Three years later, Akram's brave decision Alfiya's hard work is paying rich dividends. Last week, 14-year-old Alfiya won a gold medal in the Under-17 boxing event of Khelo India in New Delhi. Now, she is being touted as the next big thing in central India. The gold medal has almost booked Alifiya's berth in Pan Indian Sports Scholarship scheme, where she would get 5 lakh annual scholarship for eight years.
 
 It was her second gold medal at the national-level within two months. The southpaw pugilist, a rare breed, won the previous gold in the under-17 category during the   held in Dehradun last December.
 
 Alfiya's off-the-ring demeanor doesn't compliment her achievements in the aggressive sports. She is soft spoken and comes across as someone almost too humble to be able to land a punch or two. But all that changes once she enters the ring. 
 
 Alfiya confessed she was under pressure in the 80kg final of the Khelo India event. She was facing Lipakshi, the Indian junior boxer and silver medalist in the seventh Nation's Cup tournament in Serbia.
  
 "It was a big stage and there was huge pressure. I focused on my strength and that helped me in winning," said Alfiya, who tries to follow the methods of her brother Saquib, a known face at the national and state level in the youth boxing circuit.
  
 "It is a proud moment for my father and coaches. Winning back-to-back gold medals at national level feels really good," said the boxer, an 8th standard student of St Pallotti School.
  
 The boxer is now a famous figure at Divisional Sports Complex, where she practises for around four hours daily. Asked about her plans, Alfiya blushed, perhaps afraid of being laughed at for harbouring lofty ambitions.
 
 A round of punching the two boxing gloves together, clears the self-doubts and brings in the confidence. "I am aiming for Olympic medal. I would train harder to achieve my goal," says Alfiya in a voice filled with determination.
 
 With around 10 medals at various levels in three years, Alfiya has tasted decent success. That hasn't been enough to silence the critics within society, Alfiya's father said. "People come and suggest that I should stop Alfiya from playing boxing. It's not easy to make everyone understand," he added.
 
 "I trust my daughter and feel she can do the best in boxing. She has made us proud. By God's grace, I hope she continues in the same manner," Akram Khan said. The father also praised the efforts of physical trainers Guddu Thakur and   along with mentors Rashtrapal Raut and Umesh Yadav.
 
 Alfiya is known for her natural power and swift hand movement. All these coupled with her tall physique, make her a bright prospect. The senior most coach at the Mankapur complex, Arun Bute, feels the boxer has the ability to play for India.
 
