Surat: The work on bridge joining Pal and Umra areas of the city across river Tapi is likely to come to a halt in a month’s time as the land acquisition on Umra side is pending. The Rs 89.99 crore bridge that is 85% complete is stuck as owners of 22 houses over a 2,400 square metre land are not ready to vacate the space. 

 After standing committee of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), as a last resort, gave authority to the municipal commissioner to acquire land in July 2016, a proposal was sent to state government by the civic body and the process is yet to be completed. 
 
 “We are negotiating with 22 owners affected by the bridge. Seven of them are working for a solution. We are hopeful that the issue will be solved in coming days,” SMC commissioner M Thennarasan said. 
 
 Ever since the Gujarat high court (HC) suggested SMC to listen to the affected citizens and take appropriate decision in 2015, the issue has been lingering on as ruling party thought of adopting an alternative of discussion and compromise in place of mandatory acquisition of the land.
 
 SMC gave three options to the 22 affected parties that included giving them more floor space index (FSI), cash compensation and plot allotment of the same size nearby. However, till date the residents have not accepted any of the three proposals. Some are asking for construction of their homes by SMC, some are seeking higher rates of the land than the jantri rate.
 
 The final decision to build this bridge was taken in 2012 under bus rapid transit system network and processing work took two more years. In 2014, two alternative spots were suggested, but ultimately original location where it is built now was preferred. 
 
 Umra residents opposed it and had approached the HC, which directed SMC to take a final decision after consulting affected citizens by the end of 2015.
 
 The process of listening and discussion has been going on and now despite the opposition of affected people on ground, SMC has prepared itself to take possession of land and complete construction of the bridge that will reduce load from the existing congested Sardar bridge. 
 
 
