Six major surgeries and five failed IVFs not only shattered 37-year-old Rimpy’s confidence but also invited many diseases in her life. Not getting the clothes of her size and being body shamed by everyone is a problem all overweight people face and so did Rimpy. After all these ups and downs, she finally decided to   and be fit and healthy. Here’s her   journey from being fat to slaying while fit. 

 
 
 Rimpy Malhotra 
 
  Lawyer
 
 37 years
 
 
 116 kilos
 
 
 31 kilos
 
 
  1 year
 
 After five failed IVFs and six major surgeries, health issues like migraine, cervical pain, insomnia and joint pain became unavoidable. But the worst part of being overweight for me was not the health issues but body shaming. That’s when I decided I have to lose weight for my own good. 
 
  Oats/poha with black coffee/tea 
 
 2 oats stuffed chapatis with veggies and half bowl of curd
 
 
 One oats chapati with veggies and salad (before 7 pm)
 
 
 
 
  Pizza 
 
 
  I used to go for one hour walk in the morning and evening. But after losing 30 kilos, I realized I also need to tone my body, so I joined a gym where I perform various exercises from weight training to floor exercises so as to firm and tone my body. 
 
  Anything with less oil and salt.
 
 
 To lose weight, a healthy lifestyle is as important as diet and exercise are. Sleeping and waking up on right time definitely helps. Most importantly, do whatever makes you happy and keep yourself busy so that negative thoughts stay away from you.
 
 
 Once you start getting results, motivation comes on its own. 
 
  I am very conscious of what goes in my mouth. I also check my weight every day after exercising. 
 
 Not able to find clothes of your size and losing self-confidence. 
 
 Fit and in a healthy state of mind.
 
 
  I have increased my physical activity and have started sleeping and waking up at ideal times. 
 
  It was when I was bedridden for almost six months because of various health issues. 
 
 
 Health is wealth so take very good care of yourself. Remember, in a healthy body resides a healthy mind.
 
 
