NEW DELHI: Most pollution fights in the city have focused around particulate matter, and understandably so, since it’s the lead pollutant — on most days. However,   ( ) levels are also seeing a gradual rise, often breaching the  . 

 Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s annual monthly NO2 data between 2014 and 2017 for four stations — RK Puram, Madir Marg, Punjabi Bagh and Anand Vihar — show NO2 levels crossing the safe standard, particularly in the autumn and winter months.
 
 IIT-Kanpur’s Comprehensive Study on   and Greenhouse Gases had flagged the problem in 2015. It had then said that NO2 levels in winter were high and exceeded the standard at many locations, but, more importantly, NO2 underwent a chemical transformation to form fine, secondary particles in the form of nitrates, adding to the already high levels of PM2.5 and PM10.
 
 More recently, DPCC’s new monitoring network of 24 locations also showed high NO2 levels at most locations. For example, between November 1, 2017, and January 18, 2018, the NO2 levels were higher than the national 24-hour standard of 80 micrograms per cubic metres at 11 locations. The daily peaks may have been far higher than what is reflected in the monthly averages of DPCC data. DPCC scientists said the gradual rise in NO2 might be linked to increasing vehicle numbers in the city. 
 
 
  
 
 DPCC data show that in October, November and December, NO2 levels have often peaked to twice the standard. The IIT-Kanpur report had found that emissions of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) in Delhi were about 312 tonnes per day — even higher than PM10 emissions of 143 tonnes. “Nearly 52% of NOx emissions is attributed to industrial point source (largely from power plants). These are followed by vehicular sources (36%) that occur at the ground level,” the report stated. 
 
 While the Centre’s focus is currently on reducing dust pollution — apart from a policy that imposes higher parking fee and area demarcation — no restraint measures have been devised to control the number of vehicles.
 
 “On February 5, the SC directed that the comprehensive action plan drafted by EPCA be notified within three weeks. The plan recommends scaling up of public transport and restraint measures to reduce car numbers. The restraint plan includes parking policy and taxation measures. This should ensure that all hidden subsidy to car owners and users are taken away. All direct subsidies like parking space, low road tax and other incentives should be cut down,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment. 
 
 
