NAGPUR: People seek joy in material possessions which do not last long. However, Smaller things or the happenings in society that we live in have the power to find unbridled joy and make every day memorable. ‘Sakhar Khallela Manus’, a play staged at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, had all these elements to make the audience burst into laughter, on Saturday.

 With seasoned actors Prashant Damle and   in stellar roles, ably supported by   Apte and  , the play staged by Siddhivinayak Publicity, succeeded in making people laugh heartily.
 
 The play revolved around Vilas Deshpande (Prashant Damle) who leaves the job of an insurance agent and starts working in a private company which pays him better. But the targets in the new job are so stiff that Vilas finds it difficult to handle and takes to smoking and drinking under pressure. By this time, he is diagnosed with diabetes.
 
 His dotting wife Madhavi (Shubhangi Gokhale) is concerned about the health of Vilas. There are many hilarious interludes as she asks him to meditate and drink cow urine to control the disease. Their daughter Rucha (Rucha Apte) and her boyfriend Onkar (Sankarshan Karhade), a doctor by profession, try to convince him consult a medical practitioner, but to no avail. 
 
 The drama indirectly takes potshots at people who try to keep any disease under check with the methods only quacks can use. Vilas and Madhavi pick up fights that are witnessed in any household. The tug-of-war between the two adds to the funny side of the play and is full of punchlines and facial expressions that makes the audience smile. 
 
 In a twist to the drama, Rucha fakes pregnancy so that she could get married to her boyfriend. After initial resistance, her father gives in. As the drama nears the end, Vilas realizes not to play with his health and stops smoking and drinking. His witty comments in doing so captures attention.
 
 The play is a mixture of modernity and orthodox views of the Indian society and delights the audience when they see their own life incidences being portrayed in a funny way.
 
 Script writer Guru Thakur and musician Ashok Patki have given full justice to their work. 
 
 (Reporting by Shashank Wankhede)
 
 
