On Wednesday, a group of female students of   of   were allegedly abused, verbally, by some men, presumed to be outsiders. This happened when the girls, along with their male friends, were discussing their question paper outside the classroom. The students allege that while the men started with moral lectures, they soon got down to abusing and harassing them. A police complaint was lodged by Manoj Srivastava, chief proctor of the college, but an FIR is yet to be registered. 
Agra Times caught up with college students of the city who told us that this is not just one incident. They shared with us that while they feel safe within the campus, as soon as they step out of the college gate, they become apprehensive about their safety. Meanwhile, the city SSP says that while the police deploy anti-Romeo squad, they have limited staff and can’t have cops near each college.
 
  
  
  
  News carried by TOI Agra
 
 
 
 Megha Jain, a student of St. Johns College, says, “The security of girl students is a matter of concern in and near the campus. Verbal abuses and lewd comments are often directed at girls. Even if a group of girls is standing outside the college gate, waiting or discussing something, the guards lecture them on how they should behave and why they should wait inside the college and not outside or leave for home immediately. Instead of telling guys to behave properly, they put the blame on girls. I think watchmen should be trained to handle such matters and they should stop lecturing girls.”
 When we contacted, Amit Prasad, media coordinator, St. John’s College, he told us, “It is absolutely not fair to ask female students to go inside the college or leave for their homes. They have every right to stand outside the college gate if they want to. We had never been intimated about such an incident before but now that the issue has been brought to our notice, we will be taking required action in this respect.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Arshi Saifi, a student of  , says, “The entry of outsiders is strictly prohibited in our college and only students with ID cards are allowed to enter the college. But when it comes to the safety of girls outside the college gate, even if it’s right in front of the gate, we don’t feel safe. Guys harassing girls outside the college gate is very common. Recently a guy, who was stalking a girl for few days, tried to harass her right outside the college gate. It was alleged that the girl filed a police complain but after some hue and cry, the matter calmed down. Till date, we don’t know what happened to that case. I think the security of girls and students in general should be stepped up, even outside the college campus. Also strict action should be taken against perpetrators to deter such crimes.” Ekta Shrivastava, a student of IET Khandari, adds, “Though outsiders can’t enter our college premises, many people keep standing outside the gate of the college and pass lewd comments.”
 
  
  
 
 
 A female student of Dau Dayal Institute of Vocational Studies, who spoke to us on condition of anonymity, says, “After the recent incident, the college administration has become a little stricter as far as security of the college is concerned. No student without the college ID card is being allowed to enter the college. The university administration has also come for a recce and to see if the rules are being followed. But the question is, for how long will this continue? We need to ensure that this practice continues and no outsider is allowed inside the campus.”
 We contacted the chief proctor of the college, but he didn’t receive our call, despite several attempts, till the time the paper went to press.
 
  
  Picture for representational purpose (BCCL/ Hemant Kumar)
 
 
 
 Kiran, a student of RBS Management Technical Campus, Khandari, says, “Since Khandari Campus is not a closed one and the residence of a senior political leader is inside the campus, it is not easy to bar the entry of visitors. Many times, people have gathered here and created ruckus and always girls are told to be more careful and not roam inside the campus if not required. But what we need is strict action against harassers and not girls being told what to do.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Amit Pathak, SSP Agra, says, “Our anti-Romeo Squads are always on rounds near the college campuses in Agra and whenever such an incident comes to our notice, we take necessary actions. We have a limited staff and we can’t have cops placed outside every college of the city. Apart from these preventive measures, we also have helpline numbers that are always open. Students can make a call whenever needed. We are quick to respond on such complaints.” 
 
 
 
