Nagpur: The state government’s special scheme to regularize unauthorized constructions and plots has received very low response. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has received only 108 applications in last five months, and decided to extend the deadline by six more months. NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar told TOI applications will be received till October 31. “The state government launched the scheme on October 7, 2017. NIT was the first to take the initiative. We are expecting more applications, so we extended the deadline,” he said. The original last date for submission of applications was April 6. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also kicked-off the process to accept applications last week. The civic body will entertain applications till October 4. As per NIT data, less than 10% buildings have occupancy certificate in its area covering seven improvement schemes, and unauthorized or Gunthewari layouts situated on city outskirts. A large number of commercial buildings are also part of NIT’s jurisdiction. Buildings with no occupancy certificate usually have one or the other type of violations. Therefore, NIT has said that the 108 applications are very less. The state’s urban development department says the planning authorities are supposed to declare a six-month period for inviting applications followed by scrutiny of documents and then regularization. President of CREDAI, local chapter, Anil Nair said response to the scheme will come from now onwards.  “Government announced the scheme in October last year but did not come up with types of relaxations. Chart of 15 relaxations was released a few days ago. Our association always promotes residential and commercial schemes abiding by the norms. Many unauthorized constructions have cropped up in the city,” he said. “ The government scheme has come up as an injustice to builders and developers who pay all fees and follow lengthy process of getting sanction. The government should take stringent action against unauthorized structures and plots after end of the scheme,” he said. A NIT official said charges for regularization are very high, which might be a reason for low response. “Infrastructure charges equal to development charges are supposed to be levied. Also, compounding charges not less than double the development charges are to be recovered along with non-refundable application charges. Applicant will also have to cough up premium charges for extra floor space index (FSI), transfer of development rights (TDR) etc. Owners of individual houses and small flat schemes may not avail this scheme,” he said. NIT had regularized over 1.25 lakh unauthorized plots, and has around 60,000 applications pending under Gunthewari Act. It is also said owners of unauthorized layouts and plots will not avail the scheme as regularization under Gunthewari Scheme is cheaper. NOT FALLING IN LINE Ineligible: Unauthorized plots or structures on lands reserved for playground, garden, open spaces, rivers, canals, lakes, defence line, quarry, heritage sites, dumping grounds, ecologically sensitive areas like hill slopes, buffer zones, and structurally unsafe buildings Eligible: Structures or plots without sanction, cropped up on reservations (excluding playground, garden, open spaces), government lands or in different user areas, for example commercial construction in residential area. Violations of FSI, height of the building, road width, marginal spaces, coverage area, users etc. Unauthorized plots and structures should be on or before December 31, 2015 Revenue Utilization: Planning authorities will have to deposit all money recovered from the scheme in a special account. The money should be spent on providing public amenities, utilities and services in respective areas