MUMBAI: There was a 53% gap between the target and disbursement of crop loans by banks across the state in 2017-18, the year in which the farm loan waiver scheme was declared.

 
 In 2016-17, the loans disbursed by banks met 82% of the Rs 51,235 crore target for the year. In 2017-18 the figure plummeted to 47% of the Rs 54,221 crore target for that year—a drop of 35 percentage points— shows data from the State Level Bankers Committee, a forum of banking institutions to coordinate on development programmes.
 
 “It is true that a large number of farmers have not repaid their pending loans. It’s because they are waiting to hear whether they have been declared eligible. In some cases, they are waiting to see if there is a relaxation in the cut-off date or eligibility norms,” said farmer leader   from the  , among the groups that had agitated for the waiver.
 
 Farmer groups say the squeeze in fresh institutional credit has pushed more farmers towards money-lenders and dealers which is contrary to the intention of the waiver. “The drop in fresh crops loans means farmers will have no choice but to turn to money-lenders and seeds and pesticide dealers who also extend credit in villages,” said Nawale.
 
 However, some bankers argue that since farmers have not repaid the previous loan, they still have access to that money. “The farmer can use the money that he would have used to repay the loan towards preparing for the kharif season,” argued a senior banking official. However, the reason farmer groups were pushing for the waiver was that this sector was facing heavy losses and many did not make enough money to repay pending loans.
 
 Economist Madhura   says even if the waiver was implemented fully, farm credit would still fall short. “The availability of farm credit from the formal sector is woefully short of requirements. Even if the waiver was implemented fully, it does not address the problem of continued need of working capital for agriculture,” said Swaminathan. She also pointed out that demonetisation has made things worse and is a major blow to liquidity among small farmers.
 
 The sugar belt of western   was the biggest beneficiary of crop loans, accounting for Rs 15,773 crore or 62% of the loans extended in 2017-18.
 
 The data also showed that cooperative banks and private sector banks met the highest share of their targets by extending over 60% of their crop loan target. However, regional rural banks had extended only 24% of the target and public sector banks had released 38%.
 
