Nagpur: Stories of suffering, pain and courage, shared by survivors of  , overwhelmed the people gathered to mark World No Tobacco Day. Cancer survivors and their care-givers were felicitated, and handed renewed hope to begin life afresh. 

 The event, hosted at   on Friday, was organized by Neeti Clinics, Rotary Club of Nagpur South and   for Head and Neck Oncology.
 
 Beena Sunkar, a teacher, was detected with oral cancer in 2015. “It was a difficult period,” she said. “I have learnt a lot. My own people refused to accept anything I cooked and treated me like an outcaste. I was demotivated then, but my friends from Mumbai sent by me. Mine was a major surgery, and I have come to realize that adding a prefix to cancer — ‘can-survive’ — can help a lot. Sunkar has become a motivational speaker now.
 
 Prakash Virulkar’s peer group got him into the habit of eating kharra which proved dangerous. Seeing the lump formed near his mouth, people looked at him differently, he said, adding that he sometimes covers it with a handkerchief. Talking of his story, he said, “In August 2016, I experienced a small lump. Based on the symptoms, I was advised to go for an immediate operation. But I delayed it as my son was getting married in coming months, and daughter had her board exams. The tumour got worse. However, life is coming to normal now.” 
 
 Kishore Chimur endured a minor condition in 2014 before the tumour got worse and returned three years later. As he was unable to speak clearly, his wife broke into tears as she spoke of the past. “Earlier we ignored the tumour, but when it struck back in 2017, it shook me. The operation lasted almost for a day, and his health worsened after that. Our business suffered, and it took me a lot of efforts and strength to bring family out of this,” she said. 
 
 Dr   said, “We combined No Tobacco Day and Cancer Survivor Day to spread positive messages instead of giving scary information.” Giving a presentation, she said that prevention of tobacco addiction is the best solution, and early detection of cancer is the key to a better survival. Timely and adequate treatment improve survival rate, she added. 
 
 
