NAGPUR: Even as the   (NU) is yet to publish the names of blacklisted colleges for this session, it has notified the common admission schedule (CAS) for non-professional undergraduate courses to be followed by affiliated colleges. The CAS was introduced last year when online centralized admissions process (CAP) couldn’t be implemented by NU.

 The first admissions would be held between June 25 and June 30 based on merit list while July 2 to 4 will be for wait list students. Vacant seats, if any, would be filled from July 5 onwards through spot admissions. 
 
 The NU was supposed to upload the list of blacklisted colleges on its website by April 30. The move is aimed at preventing gullible students from falling into the trap of colleges running without full time teachers as seen in the case of Central India Institute of Mass Communication (CIIMC).
 
 Last year, the NU had blacklisted 159 colleges and freezed their admissions leaving the total number of affiliated institutes to 444.
 
 However, the apathy and reluctance of colleges to invite local enquiry committee (LEC) for inspection disturbed the NU’s schedule and has kept the publication of final list pending as on date. 
 
 The NU has warned colleges that all UG admissions have to be done as per the prescribed schedule. Those students admitted outside the CAS would not be treated as valid admissions. This is the second year of CAS as NU is still not been able to design online centralized admission process for UG courses because of the sheer size of courses and combinations.
 
 Interestingly, minority colleges have been exempted from CAS only for admissions of minority students but that too has to be done within a prescribed schedule.
 
 Sanjay Charalwar, principal of Mohota Science  , said the CAS is a good initiative and will help in maintaining uniformity across affiliated colleges. “We will have to provide the online data about vacant seats, so malpractices will be curbed and it will send a positive message to outside students,” said Charalwar, who is also member of NU admissions committee.
 
 However, another principal said the system is still not foolproof as some colleges gave two hoots to CAS last year. “Several colleges admitted students with low score by demanding donation money,” the principal alleged.
 
 
