NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday told the Delhi   that the act of   is   as   under  , allowing a woman to   an   and leave him.

 Availability of adequate legal remedy does away with any requirement of a new offence, which in any case can’t be created by courts but only through legislation, the APP government said.
 
 In opening arguments on a batch of PILs on the issue of marital rape, where a spouse indulges in sexual relations without the willingness of the other, the government’s counsel noted that a woman is entitled to refuse sexual relations with her husband as the right to bodily integrity and privacy is secured to all women, married or unmarried, under Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution.
 
 The submissions were made before a bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar by additional standing counsel Nandita Rao.
 
 Opposing the PILs’ seeking an end to the protection provided in IPC to husbands from the offence of marital rape, Rao maintained that “marital rape is an offence under section 498A of IPC and FIRs are being registered. Marital rape has also been given a broader definition more akin to 498A IPC under the Domestic Violence Act.”
 
 Section 498A of IPC deals with cruelty to a married woman by her husband or his relatives where cruelty means any wilful conduct that is of such a nature which is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman.
 
 Rao pointed out that marital rape is also one of the grounds of cruelty for divorce under the personal law, and contended that a court cannot create a new offence or impose punishment under the law as it is the prerogative of the legislature.
 
 The government also opposed the argument of the petitioners that non-criminalisation of marital rape violates Article 21, pointing out that enough safeguards in the form of criminal and personal laws exist to ensure that a wife isn’t forced to stay with an abusive husband.
 
 Arguments will continue next week. 
 
 The court is hearing PILs by NGOs RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two other individuals who have sought striking down of the exception in the Indian penal law that does not consider sexual intercourse with a minor wife, above 15 years of age, as rape. Advocate Karuna Nandy, appearing for the NGOs, had earlier argued that misuse of a penal provision cannot be an argument for not criminalising an act and there might be false complaints lodged by women, but such cases were rare.
 
 
