Like many other environment-conscious youngsters, this 23-year-old IIT-Madras (IIT-M) student,  , wanted to do his bit to reduce the use of plastic. On a personal note, he started avoiding plastic products. One of the first things that he changed was his water bottle — from a plastic one to a  . “The idea of drinking chilled water got me thinking about making terracotta bottles. I wanted to design a bottle that would be different from the existing designs. 
Initially, I myself tried making terracotta bottles using a potter’s wheel. But it was difficult to get the shape that I wanted. I also tried slip-casting method, which was done using moulds and liquid clay. But that also didn’t work out well. Now, I take help from potters in Viluppuram. I make 3D-print designs with exact dimensions and give them to the potters to make the bottles,” shares Sandeep, who’s a first-year student of Masters in Engineering Design.
 
 He says that the idea struck him while he was working on another project two years ago. “In 2016, when I was working at the Centre for Social Innovation and Entrepreneurship at IIT-M as an undergraduate, I got this idea to design and develop terracotta water bottles. But I was held up then with a water filter project, which I did with Ramesh Kumar Soni, another student here. I shared this idea with him about terracotta bottles and he, too, found it interesting. So, the idea was to make bottles with new aesthetic designs, which would replace the existing ones in the market that aren’t eco-friendly,” recalls Sandeep.
 
 Today, he’s a   and sells his products online. “Initially, the promotion was all by word of mouth. Thankfully, I could put up these bottles on display at various events within IIT-M, including Shaastra, Makers Market and Hiranandini. And I’ve named my startup Kandy.” Why Kandy? “I am known among friends as Sandy. So, I thought I would name it something that rhymed with my name,” chuckles Sandeep.
 
 Interestingly, it’s in his hostel room that he stacks up the bottles before they’re sent for delivery. “Most of my customers are from Chennai, but I also get orders from Coimbatore, New Delhi and even Dubai. It’s tough juggling studies and running the startup. A few other students work with me as interns. But whenever I am free, I myself go out for delivery of bottles in Chennai. I want to take up this as my full-time job after studies. Now, we make one-litre bottles, but there’s a lot of demand for 750ml bottles. Now, I am doing a bit of research to improve the quality of bottles and maintain the chillness of water chillness,” he signs off.
  
  — Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com 
 
 
  
 
