KOLKATA: Jadavpur University on Tuesday hurtled towards yet another crisis — triggered by students’ agitation — with the vice-chancellor, two pro vice-chancellors, registrar and several senior faculty members remaining gheraoed by students for the second consecutive day.

  The issue — recognition for the students’ union and its acceptance in writing — on which the students have taken on the authorities is a vexed one with a breakthrough seeming impossible. The impasse is reminiscent of ‘hokkolorob’ — the 2014 students’ agitation that had eventually ended with VC Abhijit Chakrabarti’s resignation.
 
  Students declared on Tuesday that officials have to trample over them if they had to leave without acceding to their demand — that of allowing the students’ union to function instead of the proposed students’ council and accepting it in writing. They have also sought an immediate declaration of a date for the union election.
 
 The campus turned more heated after a poster of CM Mamata Banerjee was defaced. While students have kept silent, education minister   asked university authorities to identify the culprits. “It is in very bad taste and not expected on a campus like Jadavpur,” said Chatterjee.
 
 The excecutive council meeting that had started at 4pm on Monday continued as the gherao prevented the attending officials from leaving it. The council will hold a meeting with all stakeholders on Wednesday at 4pm. Non-teaching staff union members, members of three faculty unions, student union members from engineering, humanities and science streams and the research scholar union will attend the meeting.
 
 It has also been decided that the students’ demands will be placed at the meeting and the majority view will be endorsed by the council. It will be forwarded to Chatterjee. 
 
 The agitating students claimed the state was attempting to stifle the voices of dissent on the campus and claimed that even the university teachers have opposed the government’s diktat.
 
 VC Suranjan Das feared that he will not be able to attend an event to sign an MoU with University of Exeter, UK. “If students allow me to go, I will attend the programme,” Das told   on Tuesday. 
 
 Arts faculty general secretary Debraj Debnath said the EC hasn’t yet given in writing what had been promised. “The draft proposal does not mention what is going to hapen to the students’ union after January 31. Nor does it mention if the committee’s view will be final,” said Debnath.
 
 
