MAPUSA: Sant Sohirobanath Ambiye Government College of Arts and Commerce, Virnoda,   is introducing a master’s programme in   ( ) from the next academic year, with an aim to cater to the rural population and financially weaker section.

 Apart from   (GU), the college will be the eleventh in the state to offer the degree. Among the ten colleges offering the programme, the Pernem-based college will be second among the government-run institutions after the Government College of Arts, Science and Commerce, Quepem.
 
 Course coordinator and assistant professor at the college, Roshan Usapkar said that the course will have the same fee structure as Goa University.
 
 Apart from the varsity and government colleges, the fee structure for the MCom course offered at other colleges ranges from Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 per year. In comparison, the fee structure for this programme at the Pernem government college will be around Rs 12,000 annually.
 
 The present college building, located along the national highway, was inaugurated in 2004. It was insufficient to handle the intake, and hence had to be upgraded. 
 
 The government undertook upgradation works at the cost of around Rs 26 crore in March 2014, and is nearing completion. 
 
 The project has been designed to be a full-fledged college offering all major streams viz science, commerce and arts under one roof, and will also include a library, multipurpose hall, etc.
 
 Usapkar said that the course will be conducted in the new state-of-the-art campus once the new building is inaugurated. The new campus will have a separate block for arts and commerce, as well as a library block and huge auditorium.
 
 The new campus will also have 18 information and communication technology (ICT) enabled lecture halls, while the rest will be computer enabled. The course will have experienced, qualified teaching and research-oriented faculty.
 
 Usapkar also said that priority will be given to experienced and regular faculty to teach the programme at the college. In some colleges, lecture and contract basis faculties are hired for the master’s programme.
 
 
