MUMBAI: Three days after   murder accused   was taken to   in an unconscious state, doctors treating her have confirmed it as a case of drug overdose based on her clinical symptoms. The chemical analysis report that will solidify the diagnosis is likely to arrive in another one or two days.

 Mukerjea regained consciousness on Saturday afternoon, nearly 15 hours after she was found unconscious by guards at Byculla Women’s Prison. Professor of medicine at JJ Dr Wiqar Shaikh on Sunday said she was responding to treatment. “It’s a case of drug overdose similar to what she suffered in 2015. She is presently conscious, responsive, cooperative, and obeying commands. Our only worry now is high fever and pneumonia that she has developed since Saturday evening,” he said.
  
  
 
 “A CT scan carried out on Sunday morning showed she had developed aspiration pneumonia, perhaps by swallowing her own saliva in a state of unconsciousness,” said medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Surase. Dean Dr SD   said she will continue to be in the critical care unit in case she needed oxygen support at any point.
 
 Mukerjea has been communicating with the doctors and nurses at the ward. “But when I asked her what she consumed and how she got that, she didn’t answer,” said Dr Shaikh, who also visits the prison once a week as a consultant. He said Mukerjea consumes three pills every day: for blood pressure, depression, and vascular changes in the brain.
 
 “I had asked jail authorities to administer the drugs under direct supervision. She is supposed to be called to the jail guard’s room for putting the pills in her mouth,” the doctor said, adding that it is unlikely that she may have overdosed on the antiplatelet or the BP medicines. But, only the chemical report will rule out if the antidepressant had a role to play.
 
 Dr Shaikh also ended all ambiguity around her 2015 hospitalization to JJ hospital with similar symptoms. An investigation by the prison authorities at the time had attributed it to weakness caused by low blood pressure and sugar levels. This was despite a report from   establishing an overdose of anti-depressant benzodiazepines. Dr Nanandkar said they wouldn’t be pushing Mukerjea for answers till she felt better.
 
 When TOI contacted prison officials on Sunday, they said an inquiry is likely to be initiated into the case.
 
