JAIPUR: A major fire gutted portion of a wooden factory located in residential area near   flyover in   on Thursday. The ragging blaze also damaged at least two shops near the factory.

 According to Jhotwara ACP Aash Mohamad, the incident took place when some vehicle hit into a wall adjacent to wire dangling from a pole, “This led to some kind of spark following which fire broke out,” he said.
 
 Fire official  , however, said that incident occurred due to short-circuit. “The warehouse was located near residential area,” she said, when asked if the proprietors had acquired requisite fire permission, she said that it is a matter of investigation.
 
 Thick plume of smoke was emanating from the factory which enveloped the flyover within a few minutes. The toxic smoke spread to nearby localities with compelling people dash out of their houses.
 
 The police personnel from Jhotwara and   police stations were deployed to cordon the area and block vehicular traffic on the flyover. The state disaster relief force (SDRF) was called to action.
 
 At least 15 fire tenders were sent to the factory to douse the fire; it took several tense hours for the officials to contain the roaring blaze which once threatened to quickly spread to the nearby areas.
 
 “We managed to save the portion of the building that was covered with tin shed,” ACP said. There were charred wooden rods at the front yard of the compound; such was the intensity of the heat that some iron rods were partially melted too. The factory itself was covered in soot.
 
 The fire officials, who arrived initially at the spot, positioned themselves on the flyover to sprinkle down the water, to control the fire. The horrifying flames triggered a widespread panic among the resident who could be seen walking out of their homes while their faces covered with cloths.
 
 Unit under scanner
 
 Jhotwara police station house officer   told TOI that cops are speaking to civic body officials to ascertain if the factory under the scanner had due permission. The sources told TOI that the initial investigation indicate that the factory was located inside the residential area. “We are probing the case, nobody has filed any complaint yet,” an official said.
 
 
