LUCKNOW: Having been planing a big party shakeup since some time,   chief   is now all set to execute one of the biggest overhauls of her party organisation in preparation for the   elections due next year.

 Mayawati has decided to revamp all existing committees, including the crucial ‘Bhaichara Committee’ that works to amalgamate dalits with upper caste. Sources said that even the Bahujan Voluntary Force (BVF), the armed unit of BSP cadres clad in traditional blue uniform, is also likely to undergo some changes.The BSP supremo is learnt to have taken the decision amid reports of BSP cadres hobnobbing with other political parties due to lack of any action. Sources said that the party revamping will be done in a phase-wise manner till May.
 
 “There are many BSP workers who are not working in the interest of the party. They are being identified and would be sent packing from the committees,” said a senior BSP functionary close to Mayawati. BSP works through a series of closely-linked committees at various levels, starting from booth to sector to assembly seat to district.
 
 The   works as a separate unit to coordinate with the rest to formulate strategy of consolidation of voters of different castes. In 2017, Mayawati had formed Bhaichara committee to woo Muslims in communally-sensitive west UP. The move, however, backfired and a majority of Muslims sided with  .
 
 The move, political experts said, may also be part of Mayawati’s strategy to keep party functionaries active even as she gears up to contest next general elections, perhaps the most crucial one that will eventually determine her political fate.
 
 The BSP chief is already reported to have shuffled some key functionaries, including two MPs, Munquad Ali and Ashok Siddharth. Munquad, who recently found himself in a controversy after his family members forcibly occupied shop of a dalit, has been removed from Lucknow zone and sent to Aligarh. Likewise, Siddharth has replaced Bundelkhand in-charge Naushad Ali, who has been asked to see the Lucknow zone.
 
