PUNE: A gang of 20 youths, including 13 minors, went on the rampage, leaving as many as 22 vehicles damaged in Kharalwadi in Pimpri on Saturday between 9.45pm and 10pm. The Pimpri police detained 13 boys between 12 and 14 years and arrested seven of their accomplices.

 An offence of dacoity (section 395 of the Indian Penal Code) has been registered against the suspects after they robbed Yogesh Vetal (27) of Bharatmatanagar in Kharalwadi of his cash of Rs 2,000, They did so using sharp weapons.
 
 
 Senior inspector of Pimpri police   told TOI, “The incident was a fallout of old rivalry between two minor boys. While dancing in a procession, one of the suspects thought that he was deliberately pushed by a member of his rival gang. The minor called his accomplices to Kharalwadi.”
 
 Jadhav said the gang had iron rods and sharp weapons and the men went on the rampage. They pelted stones on many parked four-wheelers and two-wheelers. “About seven two-wheelers and 15 cars were damaged in the stone pelting,” Jadhav said.
 
 The suspects also threatened Vetal with sharp weapons. “ We detained the minors and informed their parents and relatives,” Jadhav said. All the minors are from the poor backgrounds and are students, he said.
 
 While the police were taking action in Kharalwadi area, a gang of four men attacked 19-year-old Sumit   of Pimpri with sharp weapons following an old dispute around 10pm when Suryavanshi was in the procession. They also ransacked his house, police said.
 
 Four unidentified men attacked one Vicky  
 
 (25) of   in Pimpri and damaged five motorcycles in the area. The gang also robbed Arun Waghmode (37) of his cash of Rs 2,200. “Prima facie, the gang went on the rampage when they were not allowed to dance during the procession,” Jadhav said. “We have registered an offence of dascoity against the suspects,” he added.
 
 Enmity between two rival groups took a turn for the worse on in January when members of one gang vandalized as many as 11 vehicles parked on the road in Ramnagar area of Warje in Pune. The damaged vehicles included six four-wheelers and five two-wheelers.
 
 
