The latest episode of   started with another half of ‘Weekend cha Dav’.

 Host Mahesh Manjrekar announced that he will be calling all the 5 nominated contestants of the week - Sushant, Bhusha, Resham,   and Jui - in the public court of Bigg Boss. 
 
 He then switched on “Majhya Baacha TV’ to communicate with all the contestants in the house.
 
 He asked Jui to speak about what all happened in the house during the entire week as she felt that she was not given time to speak anything. She spoke for almost 8 minutes and said that she does not like to gain sympathy for her health issues like others.
 
 Mahesh then asked Smita about the reason for being punished during the chorr and police task to which she said that Megha and Sai had decided that no one will steal the cosmetics. But Smita was against it. Later Megha told that it was decided mutually between both the teams. 
 
 After all these discussions,   and   entered the Bigg Boss house to guide all the contestants. Everyone was excited to see them inside Bigg Boss house.
 
 Bigg Boss welcomed Sachin and Swwapnil.
 
 Seeing Swwapnil in the house, Sushant got teary-eyed and told Swwapnil that he wants to go home. But Swwapnil made him understand that he is a fighter and can’t leave the game in between. 
 
 Bigg Boss then gave a task to all the contestants. They were divided in two groups, Team Sachin and Team Swwapnil. Each contestant was asked to break the pot of any one contestant from the opposite team. Firstly Megha broke the Resham's pot and then Resham was able to break Megha’s pot. All the contestants managed to break the pots perfectly.
 
 After the completion of the task, Sachin and Swwapnil exit from the house. Mahesh asked whom did they like inside the house? Swwapnil said, he liked Sai and Megha as the two were playing only to win whereas Sachin said that he liked Usha. 
 
 Mahesh then called Bhushan in the public court and said that he is safe from the eliminations.
 
 When Mahesh called Jui in the public court, she said that she is feeling home sick. So she nominated herself. She even said that if she goes out of Bigg Boss house, she would miss Sai as she had maximum fights with her. Mahesh then announced that she is in danger zone.
 
 Mahesh called Rajesh in the public court. Rajesh said that he likes Pushkar’s honesty. He said that he would miss Resham if he goes out. Mahesh announced that he is in the danger zone.
 
 Mahesh asked Sushant to come forward and the latter said that he is badly missing his family. But Mahesh said that Sushant won’t be going out as he is safe.
 
 When Sushant said that he is worried about his family, everyone in the house got emotional. All the contestants started crying as they too remembered their family.
 
 Mahesh finally called Resham for the discussion. She said that she feels Usha is not fit for playing the tasks. But Mahesh made her realise that even she has left all the tasks without playing. Mahesh even said that she is aggressive and also threatens Megha and Sai. Mahesh announced that she is in danger zone.
 
 Mahesh then said that out of Resham, Rajesh and Jui, one contestant is safe. And finally announced that Jui was safe.
 
 But there was no elimination by the end of the week and the result will be declared in the upcoming episode.
 
