CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Captain   has hailed the Ludhiana MC results as a clear vindication of the Congress government’s policies and an endorsement of the pro-people initiatives undertaken by the government in the past one year. The chief minister thanked the residents of Ludhiana for their support and said the Congress party’s unambiguous win had put yet another seal of public approval on his government’s policies and programmes.

 He also termed the party’s victory as a befitting reply by the people of Punjab to the misdeeds and fabrications of the opposition, which he said had been trying to mislead them with baseless allegations against the Congress government.
 
 In a statement welcoming the poll results,   president Sunil Jakhar and cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu joined the chief minister and lauded the performance of the party.
 
 The chief minister congratulated the party workers and leaders, including cabinet minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, and Ludhiana MP Ravneet Bittu for steering the sweeping victory for the Congress, which has won 62 of the 95 MC seats. Jakhar said it had once again underscored the faith that the people of Punjab had in Captain’s leadership.
 
 Describing party’s victory as the proverbial “last nail in the political coffins of SAD, AAP and other parties in the fray”, the chief minister added that despite their desperate attempts to deceive the people, the opposition parties had failed to make a dent in the Congress government’s popularity.
 
 Pointing to the ignominious numbers recorded by the BJP (10), SAD (11), LIP (7) and AAP (1), with four seats going to Independents, Sidhu said the Congress win was yet another feather in the cap of the chief minister, who would go down in the annals of Punjab’s political history as a leader par excellence. He welcomed the three independents who had extended support to the Congress.
 
 Thanking the party workers, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) president said their unequivocal commitment to the Congress philosophy and their total dedication to the government’s policies had contributed to the victory.
 
 With the AAP being reduced to a single seat (out of 30 contested), the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) relegated to a poor second (winning just 11 out of 55 contested), and the BJP losing all but 10 of the 47 seats contested, it was clear that the political antics of these parties since their defeat in the assembly polls a year ago had failed to impress the people, Jakhar added.
 
 
