BENGALURU: The political scenario in   has got cab drivers hopeful. With H D  , the chief ministerial choice of the Congress-JD(S) combine, to be sworn in on Wednesday, talks on Namma TYGR cabs resuming operations are doing the rounds. 

 Backed by JD(S), the taxi aggregator was floated last year. It barely ran for a few weeks before fading away in the presence of market leaders Uber and  .
 
 Namma TYGR halted services after the transport department seized some of its vehicles for plying without any licence. Though the company applied for a licence, the application is still pending with the department, and drivers are now looking forward to a JD(S) face in power for a change in fortunes.
 
 “Our earnings have reduced considerably over the past few months but there is no alternative. Many drivers have sold their cabs and some are ferrying corporate employees. Most drivers are struggling to pay their EMIs because of reduced earnings. Namma TYGR promised better incentives but it lost steam,” said  , a cab driver.
 
 Tanveer Pasha, former president, Uber, TaxiForSure And Ola Drivers Association, said: “The Kumaraswamy government will take care of drivers’ woes. He has promised several welfare schemes for drivers.”
 
 “We hope to get the licence after Kumaraswamy becomes chief minister,” said Pasha, who was instrumental in the launch of Namma TYGR.
 
 Namma TYGR promised to ensure a steady income for drivers and also do away with any hidden charges imposed on commuters. Kumaraswamy had offered financial assistance for the venture after drivers associated with Uber and Ola protested against the reduction of incentives.
 
 The city has 1.56 lakh taxi drivers. Most belong to Ramanagara, Mandya and Channapatna, all JD(S) strongholds. Kumaraswamy had also promised to nominate an auto/cab driver to the legislative council if elected to power.
 
 A senior transport department official said: “We had seized vehicles of Namma TYGR as they were operating without a licence. We will issue the licence once they comply with the Karnataka On-demand Transportation Technology Aggregators Rules.”
 
 
