PATNA: The   has ordered the state health department and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, to terminate the 24 weeks’ pregnancy of a 16-year-old rape survivor. The AIIMS doctors started the process within a few hours of the order passed by the court of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh at around 10pm after marathon hearing on Wednesday.

 AIIMS-Patna director Prabhat Kumar Singh said on Friday the girl was being given a combination of medicines and the abortion process would continue probably till Sunday.
 
 The court has its working hours till around 5pm, but Justice Singh kept hearing the girl’s plea till 10pm as every minute was crucial for her life. He finally delivered the 27-page judgment inside his chamber and two special messengers of the high court were immediately rushed to AIIMS-Patna director as well as health department principal secretary   to deliver the order before midnight.
 
 It is the first time that the Patna high court passed such an order as the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971, does not allow termination of 24 weeks’ pregnancy. In August last year only, the   had refused to allow termination of a 26 weeks’ pregnancy of a rape survivor with AIDS and, instead, had ordered the   government to pay her Rs10 lakh compensation.
 
 In this case, the girl is from a very poor family. She was allegedly raped by one Vikash Sah under the Mashrakh police station area in Saran district on August 3 night last year. But she did not disclose it to anyone out of fear for two months before she told her father working in Mumbai over the phone. Her father retuned and got an FIR lodged on October 24, 2017.
 
 On Justice Singh’s order, a medical board of PMCH examined her on January 13 and submitted before the court that medical termination of pregnancy was not possible due to the MTP Act. On Justice Singh’s further order, an eight-member team of AIIMS-Patna examined her on January 23 and submitted that her physical condition was normal and the condition of the foetus was also normal. The team in its report suggested termination of pregnancy through medicines.
 
 The court was also informed about two Supreme Court rulings which allowed foetus termination, but one did not have kidneys while another had not developed skull. Justice Singh was also informed about the judgments of Bombay and   high courts which had allowed foetus termination even after the permitted period under the MTP Act.
 
 The court also ordered to remove her name from the high court’s website and also hide it from all documents. The victim was given an alias name of Miss AB. AIIMS-P has been directed to bear all her medical expenses and the state government was ordered to pay her Rs3 lakh compensation.
 
 Advocate Vindhyachal Singh, Kumar Manvendra and   represented the victim on pro-bono basis while Sheo Shankar Prasad, Patanjali Rishi and   appeared for the state.
 
 The court interpreted Article 21 and ruled that the right to life is also with human dignity and not like animals. Though Section 5 of MTP Act permits termination after 20 weeks of pregnancy only when it is necessary to save the life of the woman, but the court in this case allowed her plea as did not foresee a dignified life with her baby in future.
 
 
