PUDUCHERRY: Former   MP M   suggested that the Puducherry government constitute a selection committee to nominate members to the legislative   so as to prevent controversies and political interferences.

 In a statement, Ramadoss said the committee must comprise the lieutenant governor, speaker of the legislative assembly, chief minister, two ministers nominated by the chief minister, leader of the opposition, chief secretary, joint secretary and chief electoral officer.
 
 While the lieutenant governor will be the chairperson, chief electoral officer will be the committee secretary. The committee will recommend the names of three candidates to the Union home ministry after deep deliberations on the merits of the candidates.
 
 Welcoming speaker V Vaithilingam’s decision to frame the rules for nominating three members to the territorial assembly, Ramadoss sought the government to prescribe conditions and qualifications for nomination to the assembly. He said the candidates, who lost an assembly election must not be nominated to the assembly. The candidates belonging to a community, which is numerically strong but is either unrepresented or underrepresented in the proportion to its strength in the assembly, must be given preference.
 
 The candidates must not hold an office of profit under the Puducherry or Union governments and must be experts on the Union territory, its policy, society, economy, finance, education, art, culture, development and policy making, among others. He said the nominated MLAs will enjoy the same salary, perks and privileges as enjoyed by the elected MLAs but will not have the right to vote in the assembly on any issue. The government must submit the rules and guidelines for approval from the Union home ministry for incorporating the changes in the UT Act, 1963, with or without a constitutional amendment. Ramadoss said former Prime Minister and Union home minister Lal Bahadur Shastri’s guidelines were not incorporated in the UT Act, leading to the arbitrary political nomination of members to the legislative assembly.
 
 The nomination of three BJP loyalists to the 30-member assembly by the Union government without consulting the   government has stirred a hornet’s nest in the Union territory.
 
 Ramadass pointed out that in 1963 Shastri had suggested to nominate members to the assembly from the communities or sections that do not have any representation in the assembly. The former MP was of the view that the current controversies could have been avoided had Shastri’s guidelines were adhered to.
 
 
