PANAJI: Goa Institute of Management ( ) has introduced the “first full-time, two-year residential” postgraduate   in Big Data   in the country. The programme, which commences from the current academic year 2018-19, has an intake of 60 seats, all of which have been filled.

  
  
 
 GIM is in the 25th year of its operations and decided to introduce the new programme “by imagining jobs of the future”, institute’s director Ajit Parulekar told TOI.
 
 “We wanted to be the first entrants in the country in this emerging area of study,” Parulekar said.
 
 An independent data laboratory has been set up at the institute with workstations that can support the specialised softwares required for the programme that will comprise training in use of technology and training in the area of management.
 
 “There is no business today which is not using analytics. Even to predict fashion trends, which is thought to be an art, Big Data Analytics can prove extremely accurate,” Parulekar said.
 
 This year, students to the programme were admitted using the same process as that for admissions to GIM’s postgraduate diploma in management.
 
 Next year, the institute plans to introduce a separate admission procedure for the new programme.
 
 Professor Anand Teltumbde, who heads the programme, said it will see students specialising in three areas — banking finance and insurance, marketing, and public systems.
 
 “When the government is speaking of concepts like Smart Cities, etc, a degree in Big Data Analytics will prove useful when framing public policies,” Teltumbde said.
 
 GIM is also taking five to six companies on-board as programme associates so as to help students get access to actual industry data, which is otherwise confidential. This will allow students the opportunity to find solutions to real-life problems.
 
 “Students will spend a significant part of their course working with industry persons. Also, associate companies will become familiar with the students in the process and will be able to assess them well. This will help companies know better which students fit their requirement, rather than the usual campus placement process where the decision is taken after a short interaction,” Teltumbde said.
 
 He said this sort of an institute-industry association will be the first of its kind in the country, adding that GIM introduced the model after it found this to be “a need felt by the industry”.
 
 
