GHAZIABAD: As many as 15 families were trapped inside a four-storied building in Vijay Nagar for over an hour after a fire broke out on its   that was used as a   space, in the early hours of Tuesday. 

 Three persons, including an 11-year-old boy, suffered minor burn injuries, while six bikes and a car were gutted in the blaze.
 
 According to residents, the fire broke out around 2.30 am on the   floor of the building at Unione Residency in Bahrampur, following a blast “which was most probably due to parked vehicles catching fire”. 
 
 A few families living on the first and second floors could soon manage to climb down to safety using a ladder from the balcony.
 
 “The residents were trapped on their floors as the sole entry/exit point through the stairs was blocked due to the blaze on the ground floor. The electricity soon went off, so all of us were trapped in the dark. The situation became worse due to huge smoke emanating from the fire,” said Nand Kishor Poddar, a resident.
 
 “The intensity of the fire was such that one side of the building has developed several cracks,” he added.
 
 Mukesh Kumar, who lives with his wife and elderly mother on the second floor, said, “We shouted for help and people from nearby areas gathered at the spot. We came down the building using a ladder. At one point of time, we thought we would die of suffocation.”
 
 A visit to the spot revealed that the building did not have any fire safety system in place. Fire officials, however, said that as the building fell in the low-rise category, it neede not have a mandatory fire safety system.
 
 The builder, however, put the blame on the anti-social elements from a nearby shanty. 
 
 “Often miscreants from nearby areas enter the society to steal petrol from vehicles. It is quite possible that they are behind Tuesday’s fire,” said Sambit Mehta, the developer.
 
 When contacted, fire safety officer Sanjeev Yadav said, “One fire tender was rushed to the spot to douse the fire. No one received any major injuries. As the building falls under the low-rise category, it is not mandatory for them to install fire safety system.”
 
 As the fire started, some of those living in the first and second floors shouted out to neighbours, who brought a ladder.
 
 The residents used the ladder to climb down to safety from the balcony. “Had it not been for the neighbours, we, too, would have trapped in the darkness for almost an hour,” a resident said.
 
 The Unione Residency is spread over 12 acres of land and several builders have bought small plots of land to build multi-storied buildings. In this particular building which caught fire, there are a total of 20 flats.
 
 
