THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : Opposition staged a walk out from the assembly on Friday in protest against the state government’s alleged move to set free from jail P K  , the 13th accused in the T P Chandrasekharan murder case.

 “The government was setting ground for awarding remission of sentence to Kunjanandan, a local leader of the  , using its discretionary powers,” said   Sunny Joseph, who sought speaker’s permission to discuss the adjournment motion in this regard.
 
 The opposition arrayed a series of reasons, both legal and ethical, against the move to cut short the life imprisonment court has awarded to Kunjanandan for his role in abetting the cold blooded political murder in 2012.
 
 
 “As per the   orders, government cannot grant remission of sentence if any sort of appeal in connection with the case is pending with court. As far as the TP murder case is concerned, an appeal by TP’s wife  , seeking death sentence to the convicts, is pending with the court. Also, the convicts too have approached the court with appeal for revoking their sentence. If the government goes ahead with the plans to set Kunjanandan free, we will explore all possible legal options to veto the government move,” said opposition leader  .
 
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan refused to address the allegations directly but said all governments award remission of sentence to convicts, depending on certain aspects, including age and health. “Nobody needs to get worried. The remission of sentence, if granted to anybody, would only be given in conformity with the law. Nothing would take place in violation of the rules and procedures. So far, the government has not decided to set anybody free from jail,” he said.
 
 
 The opposition, however, said the matter of fact reply by the CM itself was indicative of the move to give remission of sentence to Kunjanandan. “If the government has no plans to set him free, why police recorded the statement of K K Rema? If the government thinks that anybody above 70 years of age is having some health issues and can be set free from jail, it would set a bad precedence,” Chennithala said.
 
