His movies are like soul food. They evoke emotions and memories and keep the flavour real, subtle and simple. Yet, it fills you up. It’s cinema that’s good for your heart, good for your soul. Filmmaker   is skilled at creating characters that are real (even taming the superstardom of actors to fit into his realistic world) and stories that are closer to home. ' ' was one such memorable film and character, so real and relatable that its effect lingered on. He explains, “I try to tell simple, everyday life stories and I like to live my life that way too.” In his films, the actors enact their parts beautifully, but the story always remains the hero. And he takes pride in that, just the way he takes pride, unabashedly, in letting the influence of Satyajit Ray’s work seep into his movies. He passionately talks about his upcoming film, 'October', which he says is written like poetry and is drawn from his personal experience. Read on…

 
 
 The backdrop of the film is related to my personal experience. I feel that in any relationship, there is one factor that binds two people, though there could be many ways of looking at it. Only two people who share the relationship will know if they love each other. Sometimes, it is selfless and unconditional, but there is an energy that flows between them. This film explores that. I am not an expert on love, but I know that everything can’t be defined in love. 'October' is a very human story between a boy and a girl, but something like this can happen between any two people.
 
 
 
 Varun was cast accidentally. In fact, he was not on my radar at all and he can’t be. We are poles apart, even with the kind of cinema that we do. I wanted a fresh cast for this film. The planning of October had started before we made Pink (he had creatively supervised the film). Varun and I were thinking of catching up for quite some time, but a year had passed and it didn’t happen. One day, when I was about to leave for Kolkata, he called and said that he wanted to meet me. I told him to come over and he responded saying that he had just woken up and was dressed shabbily. I told him that was hardly a problem and I didn’t care about it. I have not seen any of his films, just some glimpses here and there. So, I had a different perception of him. When I met him for the first time, I thought, he would have the swag of a Bollywood star, but he didn’t. When we chatted for some time over chai, I looked into his eyes and saw that there was still some innocence left. He was not the Varun that I was aware of. He was behaving just like my character (in October); he was clumsy, he had no inhibitions and he even spilled the cup of chai. A week later, I called him again as I was unable to get him out of my head. With just a one-line narration of the story, he agreed to do the part, I think that is quite brave. He has this greed for acting and I love the way he surrendered to the part. I didn’t expect a successful and commercial hero like him to come into my world of cinema. 
 
 
 
 My wife Jhuma is a huge inspiration for me. The crux of 'Piku'… parents ko zinda rakhna padta hai, is something that she had said to me at the point when she was taking care of her mother. My stories are a reflection of society and people. I also have a brilliant writer like  , who views life in a way that everyone can relate to. I think 'October' is written like poetry. The spine of any film is the writer. Shooting a film is not tough, writing it is what consumes more time and takes more out of me. I shot this film in 37 days and after the edit, I thought I could have shot more.
 
 
 
 I have stopped selling the concept of my films to producers since the last few outings; I go ahead and make the film on my own. No one had a clue about what I was doing with 'Piku' (starring Deepika Padukone, Amitabh Bachchan and Irrfan), they just had a basic idea. I showed the film to people only after shooting it. If someone interferes with my work, I pull out of it and I don’t associate with them. I believe that if someone does not have any respect for my work or they don’t trust what I will do with it, there is no point trying to sell them an idea. During 'Pink', I was so angry that I went to Ronnie (Lahiri), who has produced all my films and told him that I will make this at any cost, so decide how you want to do it. It is difficult to pitch my ideas to someone else, and then be answerable to them, that too, on commercial grounds.
 
 
 
 I won’t add it to the film, at best, I will put the song in the credit roll and leave it there (laughs).
 
 
 
 I only understand the money that has been entrusted to me as a director. Let me tell you… my films are so cheap that it doesn’t matter. The cost of production is low, but in terms of canvas and presentation, there is no compromise. My background is theatre, and theatre usually grounds you and makes you work with bare minimum resources. I try to tell simple, everyday-life stories and I like to live my life that way, too. I collaborate with great cinematographers and technicians and I invest in them. If your excel sheet is right before the film, you can’t go too wrong with the dynamics of it. I know the kind of returns my producers will get.
 
 
 
 Yes, the word parallel cinema came from the time when filmmakers like Shyam Benegal, Satyajit Ray, Mrinal Sen and Tapan Sinha were making films. The problem was that they could exhibit their films only in a few theatres, so their kind of cinema ended up becoming niche films. Now, the same film can release in 1,500 screens across the city, and given the accessibility and exhibition of these films, they reach out to a wider audience. I think people always had an appetite for such cinema, but now, they have access to it. That’s why they are reacting so actively to all kinds of films. Today, potboilers are working, but along with that, there is ample space for the kind of films I make, too. There will always be a struggle to release smaller films, but that is also because nowadays, there are too many films releasing and on some Fridays, there is almost a traffic jam at the screens. 
 
 
 
 I do think that cinema can help bring about a social change, also because it is something that becomes a part of our conversation in our everyday lives. Of course, for us it is firstly a platform to tell stories, not just talk about social change. I believe that every story has some kind of moral value, otherwise what is a story? And what is the purpose? I remember that our class teacher would tell stories in school and then ask us, ‘What is the moral of the story?’ Hence, if there is no moral in the story, there is no story. My focus is to tell a good story and make the audience sit quietly and watch the film. Today, people have so many other things to do in life, and they remember all their to-do lists while sitting in the theatre. Ghar pe kya ho raha hai, kya nahi ho raha hai, all these thoughts occur while watching a film (laughs). As a filmmaker, if you don’t get the right audience, then you have had it. It can be very disturbing.
 
 
 
 When I was making 'Madras Cafe', I got away with it because I didn’t name anyone. The Censor Board was fine with it, but there were fringe elements that stopped the film. Now, that’s not a democratic way of telling a filmmaker what he can’t do. The democratic way of dealing with filmmakers is to debate, sit across the table and talk about the issue. The democratic way is to appeal to government bodies. Vandalising a theatre and scaring film lovers from watching what they like to, just because you don’t want to watch it, is not a democratic way of dealing with the problem. By doing that, we are harming our Constitution. I always say that filmmakers are not irresponsible citizens. You can’t take us for granted and say that yeh toh film ke log hain. We are also participating in building our country. We are contributing to the country socially, economically and we are responsible, law-abiding citizens. I wouldn’t like to comment on nationalism or anti-nationals, because it is quite an abused term. I consider myself a nationalist and a liberal.
 
 
 
 Every week, I ensure that I watch one of Satyajit Ray’s films, even though I have lost count of the number of times I have seen them. Ray’s films are my Bible and my inspiration. I openly say that all characters in my films are influenced by his films and stories. I also watch a lot of world cinema that inspires me.
 
 
 
 Hmmm (after a lot of thought)… I saw 'Masaan' and I really liked it. Balki asked me to watch 'Padman', so I saw that. And I recently watched Bimal Roy’s 'Do Bigha Zamin'.
 
 
 
 (Smiles) I like watching old films and there are some good films being made across the world, so I catch up on them. When I am not working, I play football and usually, when I am writing a film, I don’t like being distracted by anything else.
 
