NEW DELHI: The capital woke up to a thick   on the first day of the new year with the mercury plummeting to 5.7 degrees Celsius — the season’s lowest. There was “zero” visibility early in the morning. Things improved over time, but visibility continued to remain poor all day. Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index, which was hovering in the “very poor” zone around 4pm, slipped into the “severe” category by evening, crossing the 400 mark. 

  
  
 
 
 There was little respite at the time of going to press with visibility remaining poor. Meanwhile, NCR’s average PM2.5 was above “emergency” limits, with the fog not allowing particular matter to disperse easily. Met officials predicted similar   over the next two days. “There will be dense fog on Tuesday as well. Weather conditions will likely remain the same. On Wednesday, there will be dense fog in the morning, but the intensity may reduce by afternoon. These conditions also mean that the mercury will keep dropping. Temperatures may dip to 5.7 degrees Celsius by January 4-5,” Kuldeep Shrivastav, scientist at the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said.
 
 
 
  
 
 The maximum temperature on Monday was 20.1 degrees Celsius — a notch above normal. Forecasts for Tuesday showed a maximum and minimum of 20 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively. Cold weather conditions prevailed in western UP as well, with Meerut recording a maximum temperature of 14.8 degrees Celsius. 
 
 Central Pollution Control Board officials, meanwhile, issued an alert, asking people to be careful over the next few days due to the foggy conditions, which might result in air quality worsening further. A Sudhakar, member secretary at CPCB, said the board would hold a meeting with the transport department on Tuesday to discuss the future course of action. “Conditions are expected to be bad for the next 2-3 days. We want people to be careful as dense fog will continue, which will result in poor visibility and air quality. While it’s normal for this time of the season as winds bring in moisture from the north, the humidity is currently above 90%, which is resulting in dense fog. We will discuss what emergency action needs to be taken on Tuesday,” Sudhakar said.
 
 By 7pm on Monday, average PM2.5 had been above 300 micrograms per cubic metre for five consecutive hours whereas average PM10 hovered around 500 micrograms per cubic metre — the limit that triggers “emergency” or “severe plus” measures under the Graded Response Action Plan devised by the SC-mandated EPCA. If both PM2.5 and PM10 stay above this limit for 48 hours or more, emergency measures, such as a stop on construction activity, ban on entry of trucks and enforcement of the odd-even scheme, kick in. Sources, however, said EPCA and other authorities might not wait for 48 hours, rolling out some “severe plus” measures as early as Tuesday. 
 
 In terms of AQI, it was the most polluted January 1 in the last three years, according to CPCB data. While on Monday, the AQI was 400, it was 344 on the first day of 2017 and 391 on January 1, 2016. Among neighbouring cities, air quality was “severe” in Ghaziabad, Noida and Faridabad. The Gurgaon air, however, was in the “very poor” category with an AQI of 378. 
 
