SURAT/VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: Over the last two days of Uttarayan festivities as many as 4,026 birds, injured due to glass-coated thread ‘manja’ used to fly kites, have been rescued and treated said forest department officials on Monday. The figures include the birds saved by voluntary organizations across the state. Of the 4,026 birds,  

 Principal chief conservator of forest (Wildlife) G K Sinha said, “This year, 4,026 birds have been rescued and the number is less than 2017. Last year’s figure for the entire period for 2017 was around 8,300 birds.” Forest officials said that not only pigeons, even migratory birds were injured. A flamingo and painted stork were brought to Jivdaya from the area near Thol in Ahmedabad after being entangled in manja. Apart from this, an Egyptian vulture was also among those rescued.
 
 Meanwhile, in Surat, 491 birds were injured of which 25 died. Compared to last year, the numbers are 50% lower, said authorities, adding that the drive among children and youth asking them not to fly kites during morning and evening hours had paid dividends. In 2017, the figures had crossed 1,200. 
 
 “Nearly 3 lakh students from schools in Surat had taken oath not to fly kites with Chinese manja and during bird flight hours. This one single step has paid lots of dividends,” said Punit Nayyar, chief forest officer, social forestry, Surat. Like past years, this year too maximum number birds injured include pigeons, owls and egrets.
 
 In Vadodara, kites and loose strings continued to claim innocent winged creatures, many of which were found in critical conditions by their rescuers. Starting from January 10, as many as 41 birds lost their lives to the killer ‘manja’. 
 
 Under the Karuna Abhiyan of Gujarat government, forest department had organized camps in various parts of the city for which it had roped in NGOs and voluntarily organizations to save birds from kite-string injuries during the Uttarayan festivities. 
 
 “In all, there were 14 collection centres where volunteers were working with forest department teams. At every collection/response centre, injured birds were being received and teams were also attending to calls from people informing about the presence of such injured birds,” said Kartik Maharaja, deputy conservator of forest, adding that during the five days, the teams rescued 570 birds of which 529 have survived. 
 
 Just in the two days of Uttarayan festivities as many as 34 birds fell prey to the killer ‘manja’ — 24 birds died on Sunday while 10 others died on Monday. While most birds that died were pigeons, some scheduled birds like the falcons, stork and the ibis too died due to the kite strings.
 
 Thirteen interns and a senior veterinarian Dr Erika Sullivan from Australia also joined efforts of Vadodara Centre for Animal Rescue & Emergency (VARE), an organization which had organized a two-day bird camp at Bird circle in the city during which 37 birds were provided treatment. 
 
 “The team from Australia has come to Vadodara on its own expense to attend a 10-day camp of which the two-day bird camp was on Sunday and Monday,” said VCARE administrator Dr Pratibha Panchal, adding that an injured barn owl and another injured lapwing were referred to the forest department as they were scheduled birds. “Fortunately, this year, the birds had received minor injuries and the number of casualties is also less this year,” she said.
 
 
