MUMBAI: For the next six years, the MMRDA grounds in BKC will not be able to host any major event that draws over a lakh people. For, the space available in the ground for such events has been reduced to a third because of the infrastructure projects. Though the city has a larger ground at NSE Nesco Complex in Goregaon, that’s not used for concerts and such events.

 
 The MMRDA grounds has hosted some of the biggest international acts in the country-–Coldplay, Beyonce, Roger Waters, Bryan Adams, Scorpions, Mark Knopfler, Shakira, Guns N' Roses, INXS, Iron Maiden, Michael Learns to Rock and Pitbull.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Cyrus Gorimar, director of Opium Events, organiser of the One Republic gig, told TOI: “We had applied for permissions in the third week of February and we received a stamped acknowledgement almost immediately. It was during the last week of March that we heard rumours about shows getting cancelled at MMRDA. It was only when our agents approached the authorities that they verbally communicated that our event would have to be shifted on account of the bullet train project.”
 
 When requests to the MMRDA commissioner for a written or formal notification fell on deaf ears, Gorimar was forced to send a legal notice threatening to file a writ petition three weeks ago. “That was the first time they responded and were willing to lend us permission. By then it was too late since we had already made alternative arrangements at the   Dome.”
 
 Location shift for a big ticket international act in the last minute can be a mammoth task that can take a toll on the logistics, budget and repute. “Venues need a band’s approval and layouts for the stage, lights and audience need to be worked out the moment a venue is booked and the approvals are in. People are hired to work on these,” added Gorimar describing how everything from budget to audience strength went for a toss. “At NSCI we’re expecting a crowd of 6000 as opposed to 15,000 that we would have seen at MMRDA,” Gorimar said.
 
 Additional Metropolitan Commissioner   said, “We still have the remaining plot for events. However, big events like political rallies or large concerts may not be possible to hold.”
 
 Work on the underground bullet train Bandra-Kurla Complex terminus is scheduled to begin from December after the state government in February handed over nearly five hectares of land to the   for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail corridor.
 
 The foundation of the BKC bullet train terminus would be built keeping in mind that a 10-storey building   would come up just above it.
 
