

 
 One of the most infamous underarm deliveries in modern cricket was bowled by Greg Chappell’s younger brother Trevor in the final ball of a one-dayer to deny the rival Kiwis the six runs they needed to tie the match. That was in 1981, during an Australia-New Zealand Test match, and it was roundly condemned as a disgrace to the gentleman’s game. Underarm bowling was later banned.
 
 But in one corner of India, that’s the way cricket is played — underarm. While   fever grips the rest of the country, Tulunad is celebrating the final days of a six-month-long underarm cricket season. Kasargod district collector Jeevan Babu K says this form of the game is unique to the area. “The followers of underarm cricket include all age groups, from school-going children to senior citizens.” 
 
 Tulunad is the area between Chandragiri river in Kasargod (Kerala) and   in Karnataka. At least 100 underarm cricket tournaments are held here from mid-November till mid-May. The biggest are four premier leagues, organized on the lines of IPL — with team owners, franchises, player auctions, base prices, et al.
 Riyaz began playing this style at 14, and he’s now in the New Star Kunjathoor team. “I have grown up playing this format of cricket; my father, grandfather and even great grandfather have played this game,” says Riyaz, who is still a player in demand at 30. 
 
 Technique is important. “The underarm action is not just about throwing the ball. We have specialised bowlers who are experts in both spin and seam bowling,” says Muhammed Shafeeq, who represents Hidayat Nagar Sports Club.
 
 The underarm league is played among 14 teams, lasts five days, and includes league matches, a knockout phase, semi-finals and finals. Matches usually start at 3pm and end by 2am. Abdul Rahman Golden, one of the organisers of the recently-concluded Mannamkuzhi Premier League at Uppala, says that earlier the matches used to begin at 10pm and go on till morning. “But after complaints of youths resorting to anti-social activities came up, the time has been rescheduled so that by 2am, the grounds are cleared.”
 
 AUCTION BEFORE ACTION
 
 The 14 teams are bought by various sponsors after paying Rs 65,000 each to the organisers. The list of available players is provided to all the sponsors, and the owners get to choose their captain. Once that is finalised, the players are auctioned. Each has a base price of Rs 600; the team owner can spend a maximum of Rs 12,000 to put his team together.
 
 Sometimes, the cricketers go as guest players to other places such as interior  , where this form of cricket is highly popular. “We have had instances when local ruffians have coerced some players to join their teams,” says Hassan Perla of AB Sporting Club.
 
 Other than the premier leagues, numerous tournaments are played among the clubs under the umbrella of Kasargod Underarm Cricket Association (KUCA as well as outside it. With 39 clubs under the association, it’s quite a scheduling challenge to avoid tournaments clashing,” says KUCA secretary Sheikh Muhammed Riyaz.
 Curiously, the commentary is usually in Hindi and English. “The language mostly associated with cricket in the country is Hindi and English, and we also follow the same style,” says KUCA president Abdul Rahman, who is also an expert commentator in Hindi.
 
 GAME GOES GLOBAL
 
 The money involved in organising a tournament runs into lakhs of rupees. Affluent businessmen from Kasargod working in the Gulf countries are generous with funding. “Organising the just concluded MPL tournament cost us Rs 20 lakh. The winning team was awarded Rs 2.5 lakh in addition to a Royal Enfield motorcycle,” says Abdul Rahman Golden.
 
 Betting is common. “Some spectators bet on each ball of the game, sometimes as much as Rs 25,000,” says an organiser. Large sums change hands in the Gulf countries, where fans get to see matches through live streaming on YouTube.
 
 WhatsApp groups such as   have members from several countries who eagerly follow the major tournaments held in and around Kasargod. “We employ one person to exclusively give ball-by-ball updates in those groups,” says Abdul Rahman Golden.
 
 Such is the craze that similar underarm tournaments are now being organised in the Gulf, especially in areas with a large population of youngsters from Kasargod. “Players from here are invited as guest players to play in those tournaments,” says Riyaz of the New Star Kunjathoor team, who has gone twice to the Gulf. KUCA president Abdul Rahman says almost half of Kasargod’s young players have moved to   for jobs. “In the last four years alone, more than 10 tournaments have been organised in Saudi Arabia and the UAE,” he adds.
 
