NAGPUR: The recent tragedy at   could have been averted if guards knew how to perform   (CPR), said Dr  , president of Nagpur’s   (ISA). In the past one month, ISA has trained 1,000 people in use of CPR.

 
 CPR is a life-saving technique in cases of cardiac arrest and respiratory arrest, which helps maintain blood flow to brain and heart by performing the simple technique of chest compression till medical help arrives. It can be performed by any citizen.
 
 “It’s an important skill and every citizen must learn it. One never knows when the skill may come handy. For someone who is unconscious and suffering from cardio-pulmonary arrest, providing CPR could mean the difference between life and death,” said Lawange. 
 
 From nearly 70,000 cardiac arrests calculated in a year, only 7.10 % are saved. However, about 60 % deaths can be saved through public awareness on CPR technique, wherein it is possible to delay a brain-dead condition.
 
 “Workshops are being conducted by our society everywhere in India. From March 31 to may 15, we gave hands-on training to 1500 citizens. We plan to raise the count till 10,000 for our tenure this year,” Lawange added. Apart from city hospitals, the society conducted workshop in Bramhapuri as well as GMR Warora power plant. The workshops have also been conducted for IMA Bhandara, traffic police, RTO, ESIS hospital among others.
 
 Compression Only Life Support (COLS) emphasizes on early recognition of cardiac arrest, and starting chest compressions as early as possible. He may have the time limit of only about 10 seconds to save the victim till medical help arrives. While COLS can be performed by any citizen outside the hospital, Basic Cardio-pulmonary Life Support (BCLS) and Comprehensive cardiopulmonary Life Support are performed by trained medics and para-medics. 
 
 HOW IT’S DONE
 
 Compression to be given using pressure of both hands in middle of the chest
 
 100-120 compressions needed per minute
 
 After every 30 chest compressions, two rescue breaths to be given
 
 The compression should be at least 5cm in depth
 
 To invite doctors for a CPR workshop, mail: isanagpur@gmail.com
 
 
