CHENNAI: Toning down its rhetoric against the NDA government for not complying with the Supreme Court's February 16   verdict, the ruling AIADMK on Tuesday blamed DMK and its ally   for not gazetting the final award of the Cauvery tribunal and for not setting up   and   under the UPA regime. "DMK betrayed the interests of Tamil Nadu people and its farmers," chief minister   said. 

  Winding up the party's day-long hunger strike in Chepauk in Chennai, Palaniswami accused the DMK of betraying the state twice in the past, which he said resulted in the current situation. Karunanidhi's DMK was in power in the state as well as a constituent in the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre, when the final award of the tribunal was given in 2007. The party lost the opportunity to get the tribunal award notified, he said. 
 
  "You (DMK) tell us to resign today. But you could have done so when Congress relied on you to run the government then. The Cauvery dispute could have been resolved. It only reflected your intention to cling to power with no concern for the people or the farmers," the CM said. 
 
  The 1892 and 1924 Cauvery agreements between the governments of Tamil Nadu and Mysore were due to the renewed in 1974. Palaniswami said the DMK failed in that front as well. "Had they done it, there would not be a necessity for us to protest now. Scared over   (of inquiry into corruption charges against the state), the DMK did not renew the agreement," the chief minister said. 
 
 
 
 
 He hit out at DMK leader M K Stalin for accusing the AIADMK of practising deceit. “Who is really resorting to deceit? The real hero of the deception in 1974 (failing to renew the agreement over water sharing) is the DMK,” Palaniswami said, reminding that it was Jayalalithaa’s legal efforts that eventually resulted in the Centre gazetting the tribunal’s final award in 2013. Against the backdrop of the state filing a contempt plea against the Centre, Palaniswami said justice would prevail and the state would win the Cauvery case. “The Centre did not implement the court order within the six-week deadline. We are holding the protests to condemn the Centre…,” he said, carefully avoiding mentioning the BJP during his 25-minute speech. Seemingly unperturbed by the aggressive opposition campaign, Palaniswami said people and the media knew well the pressure exerted by his government on the Centre.
 
 For his part, Panneerselvam accused the DMK and the Congress of trying to seek political gains over the Cauvery dispute. “They do not have any locus standi to protest for Cauvery. The DMK is the reason for the dispute,” he said, vowing to continue the protests until the state got its due share of the river’s water.
 
 
 
