PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Tuesday said no person in this country had guts (power) to abolish the constitutional provision of reservation for scheduled caste (SC), scheduled tribe (ST) and other backward class (OBC) communities.

 Addressing a ‘Yuva Sammelan’ convened by  , former president of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee who recently switched over to JD (U), at S K Memorial Hall here, the CM asked the youths not to get influenced by some netas who claim that attempts are being made to abolish the reservation system. “Today, no person in the country has political willpower to even interfere in the constitutional provisions for providing quota to the members of SC, ST and OBC communities,” Nitish said amid thunderous applause from the audience, especially youths.
 
 In a veiled attack on   chief Lalu Prasad, Nitish said an unsuccessful attempt was made in 1993 (when Lalu was the CM of Bihar) to abolish the Karpoori Thakur formula – which provides separate quota for backward classes (BCs) and extremely backward classes (EBCs) – by introducing the Mandal Commission’s formula in the state government’s jobs. “I protested the move tooth and nail and got the proposal stalled,” he said.
 
 Nitish added former CM Karpoori Thakur, while introducing quota for backward classes during the Janata Party’s regime, had made separate provisions of quota for BCs and EBCs. “The Mandal Commission’s formula provides a joint quota of 27% for backward classes. The implementation of Mandal formula in Bihar government jobs would have adversely affected the interests of EBCs,” he said.
 
 Highlighting the steps taken by his government for empowerment of women, Nitish said it was his dispensation in the state that introduced quota for SCs, STs, EBCs, BCs and women in the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies. “They (RJD people) were in the power since 1990 in the state. Why did they fail to introduce quota in the panchayat raj and urban local body elections? The quota system in the panchayat and urban local bodies were introduced in 2006 we came into power,” the CM said. 
 
 
