SHIMLA:   government on Saturday made major administrative changes at the top by transfering 18 IAS officers. Additional chief secretary (finance) Shrikant   has replaced additional chief secretary Manisha Nanda as the principal secretary to chief minister.

 B K Agarwal, a 1985-batch IAS officer who was awaiting a charge has been posted as additional chief secretary (home and vigilance). He will also hold additional charge of additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) and financial commissioner (appeals).
 
 Baldi will hold the additional charge of additional chief secretary (information and public relations department). Nanda has been posted as additional chief secretary (PWD) and will hold the additional charge of additional chief secretary-cum-financial commissioner (Revenue). She will continue to hold the post of principal resident commissioner at New Delhi.
 
 In place of Baldi, state government has appointed Anil Kumar Khachi, a 1986-batch IAS officer, as the additional chief secretary (finance, planning, economics and statistics and 20-point programme). He will also function as financial commissioner (appeals).
 
 Additional chief secretary (transport) Ram Subhag Singh a 1987-batch IAS officer, has been posted as additional chief secretary (tourism and civil aviation). He will hold the additional charge of urban development department.
 
 Additional chief secretary (forest, TCP, urban development, housing and YSS) Tarun Kapoor, a 1987-batch IAS officer, will now be heading the power department and he will hold additional charge of chairman, Himachal Pradesh Electricity Board Limited.
 
 Principal secretary (technical education and animal husbandry) Sanjay Gupta, a 1988-batch IAS officer, has been posted as principal secretary (ayurveda and cooperation). Principal secretary (personnel, multi-purpose projects, cooperation and industries) R D Dhiman, a 1988-batch IAS officer, has been posted as principal secretary (industries and technical education). He will hold additional charge of principal secretary (horticulture).
 
 Principal secretary (health and family welfare) Prabodh Saxena, a 1990-batch IAS officer, has been posted as principal secretary (TCP and housing). Principal secretary (horticulture, excise and taxation, IT) Jagdish Chander Sharma, a 1991-batch IAS officer, has been posted as principal secretary (excise and taxation). He will hold the additional charge of transport and IT departments.
 
 Principal secretary (food, civil supplies, consumer affairs, tribal development) Onkar Chand Sharma, a 1994-batch IAS officer, has been given additional charge of agriculture department. Secretary (rural development and panchayati raj) Dr R N Batta, a 2000-batch IAS officer, has been given responsibility of secretary (project monitoring) to chief minister.
 
 Secretary (general administration) Akshay Sood, a 2001-batch IAS officer, will now be the secretary (finance), while secretary (secretariat administration and sainik welfare) Dr Sunil Kumar Chaudhary, a 2001-batch IAS officer, has been posted as divisional commissioner of Shimla.
 
 Director (rural development and panchayati raj) Rakesh Kanwar, a 2007-batch IAS officer, has been posted as excise and taxation commissioner. Director (information technology) Rohan Chand Thakur, a 2009-batch IAS officer, has been given additional charge of managing director, HP Kaushal Vikas Nigam.
 
 HP Institute of Public Administration director C P Verma has been posted as director of rural development and panchayati raj. He will hold additional charge of director of HP Institute of Public Administration.
 
 
