LUCKNOW: The special task force ( ) of UP Police claimed to have cracked the case of paper leak in the examination to recruit   junior engineers by arresting 12 persons of a gang from various places of the state. The online examination was conducted by a private firm  . 

 "The arrest was a result of detailed screening of answers of over 25,000 candidates from which we managed to trace a trend and thereafter some scientific investigations helped us narrow down on the modus operandi and finally led us to those arrested for crime," said director general of police OP Singh. He said police were probing the role of at least six other people in the case and some more arrests were likely depending upon the culpability of those under the scanner. 
 
 While the test was conducted on February 11, results were to be announced on February 20. However, the answer-key of the examination started doing the rounds on social media a day before. After this, six candidates who appeared for this exam approached STF alleging that some candidates were in possession of question paper before the exam began.
 
 A group of aspirants approached power minister   and also wrote to the chief minister office for an investigation into the matter. A probe was ordered on February 28. 
 
 SSP STF   said that after analysis of candidates, we saw a pattern of answers given by the examinees which led to a conclusion that the exam was compromised in two ways one via online system and another offline. Explaining the modus operandi, ASP (STF)   told TOI that the miscreants had used a software used to control the computer. This software in connivance with centre owners and technicians was installed in some of the computers where specific examinees were to be seated. During examination the candidates had to only sit while via software the solvers solved it.
 
 While in another pattern paper of Pali language that was to be held in the second shift was also compromised. The miscreants had on a price of Rs 15 lakh given solved paper of Pali by calling examines who had paid the amount at a hotel in Charbagh.
 
 STF sleuths said that inquiry about officials of UPPCL and Aptech was still under way. The gang consists of solvers, examinees and also owners of the centres where the examination was to be conducted.
 
  The arrests were made from Lucknow, Allahabad, Azamgarh, Ambedkarnagar and Deoria. 
 
 Cops also recovered 15 computers, 12 mobiles, 2 laptops and Rs 7.70 lakh.
 
 
