NAGPUR: The appointment of Nagpur University ( ) Pro-VC Pramod  , that has been found “not as per norms” by the government, is under a cloud once again. The   (MU) search committee chairman had attached adverse remarks and six complaints in his recommendation to the governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who is chancellor of universities.

 Yeole, who was set to be the ultimate choice for the MU VC post, missed out when former HoD of NU Naresh Gaikwad wrote five letters to the government and the governor’s office. Besides Gaikwad, the governor office had received one more complaint over Yeole’s name.
 
 On April 28, TOI’s Mumbai edition reported that more than one person had written to the VC search committee headed by scientist K Kasturirangan.
 
 After the appointment of MU VC last Friday, the controversy over Yeole’s appointment as NU Pro-VC has been widely reported in the Mumbai media too, which has forced the governor’s office to take a serious relook, sources said.
 
 Governor’s secretary Venugopal Reddy did not respond to TOI’s queries. Earlier too, the governor’s office has ignored queries pertaining to Yeole’s appointment as Pro-VC.
 
 Sources said the committee had clearly told the governor that Yeole’s eligibility needs to be seriously checked before the appointment.
 
 NU officials said the rules for the VC post apply more or less for the Pro-VC too. “Even before the governor took a decision on Mumbai, the message had been loud and clear. On April 19, the interactions for Mumbai were held followed by those for Solapur. Yeole was in the race for both. While he made it to the final five of Mumbai, he was eliminated from the final lists for Solapur,” they said.
 
 The officials added, “At the same time, two juniors from Nagpur — principal Mrunalini Fadnavis and professor Pradeep Kondal — were shortlisted for interactions with the chancellor by the Solapur VC committee.”
 
 They claimed that the Solapur committee led by justice PV Reddi too had disapproved of Yeole’s candidature in view of the complaints, and therefore his name was not included in the list.
 
 On September 18, 2016, TOI had exposed Yeole’s appointment row, and followed up the issue with the governor’s office. As on date, there is no clarity on the issue from the chancellor since TOI’s queries were never answered.
 
 In a detailed report dated June 14, 2016, the joint director of Higher and Technical Education, Nagpur, had noted that Yeole’s appointment was “not as per norms” while rejecting his claim for higher pay.
 
 
