BHUBANESWAR: To effectively combat bank robbery, the state   (CB) has advised authorities of banks across the state to use hidden cameras in their establishments and provide body-worn spy cameras to their staffs. CB also asked bankers to conduct regular security audits.

 Though bank robberies are not alarming in the state, the April 6 twin bank heists in   and   prompted the Crime Branch to interact with top functionaries of 35 banks (both nationalized and private) here on Friday. Armed miscreants had looted Rs 23 lakh in cash and jewellery worth more than Rs 40 lakh from a nationalized bank in Angul. Same day, goons struck in a bank in Nayagarh district and decamped with Rs 80,000 cash.
 
 “We have clearly told the bankers to conduct safety audit of their branches in regular interval. Apart from installing   cameras, they should provide body-fitted spy cameras to some of their staff and install spy cameras in hidden locations in banks,” additional director general of police (Crime Branch)   told TOI.
 
 Since banks in rural areas and outskirts of cities or towns are more vulnerable to robbery, the bankers were asked to adopt additional security measures in those locations. “We have asked them to appoint adequate armed private security guards after through verification of their antecedents. Banks may apply for deployment of police personnel, provided they pay certain amount to avail the service. Some banks have been availing police service,” Upadhyay said.
 
 Crime Branch said bank’s alert system should improve. “Though many banks have siren system, still they need to upgrade the facility. They may put in place a direct hotline connection or autodial to nearest police station and police control room. In the hotline system, there is no need to dial to police. Police will automatically receive an alert if someone presses a secret button,” Upadhyay said. 
 
 Crime Branch said the banks should install high frequency CCTV cameras in and outside their establishments to capture clear photographs of visitors and vehicles. To avoid sabotage or deliberate damage to the hard disks, the banks have been advised to keep an alarm system in the CCTV storage room.
 
 “We have also issued an advisory to SPs, asking them to hold quarterly meetings with bankers in their localities. SPs should monitor security systems in banks and advise them to upgrade the safety standards in regular interval,” Upadhyay said. CB has asked SPs to create database of local criminals and track their movements.
 
 In the meeting, Crime Branch expressed concern over poor security features at many ATMs across the state. “We often find unguarded ATMs at many places. Besides, CCTV cameras are not in order in many ATMS. Banks should take serious note of it,” Upadhyay said. 
 
