Navratri literarily translates to nine nights. 
 , in Sanskrit is nine and 
 means night. Navratri comes four times a year, often at the change of seasons. The current Navratri comes as the mild wintery spring fully melts into summer and the fasting, prayers and rituals of this time are to bolster and cleanse your body, mind and spirit to deal with this change and refresh and prepare us for the new season. 

 In each of the nine nights we honour a different goddess, or one could argue, a different avatar(form) of the female energy of the cosmos known as Devi, Shakti or Durga. The 9 goddesses wopshipped on the 9 days are Shailaputri, Brahmacharini, Chandraghanta, Kushmanda, Skanda Mata, Katyayani, Kalaratri, Mahagauri, and Siddhidatri in order.
 
 
 
 Kalaratri's (sometimes spelled   or Kaalaratri) name is sometimes used interchangably with Kaali, however the goddess is first found mentioned in scripts that pre-date the first mention of Kaali. It could be that Kaali is a simplified name or a form of Kalaratri. Kaali herself has many forms, Mahakali, Bhadrakali etc.
 
 Both represent a belligerent, fearsome form of the goddess. She is a destroyer of negative energies, her very aspect inspires such terror that ghosts, spirits, djinns, demonic entities and any form of negative energies run away on her arrival. Though a destructive energy, she supports and protects the good in the universe by destroying the bad.
 
 Another name of this goddess is Shubankari which means auspicious or doing good in Sanskrit, as it is believed she always provides auspicious results to her devotees. It is said she makes her devotees fearless.
 
 Her name is made up of two parts, 
 , which means both black, the colour of her skin in this aspect, and time and 
 , which means night, the time after the sun has set. She is the goddess of the darkness of the night and of death of time.
 
 
 
 Kalaratri appears in several myths similar or supporting goddess Durga. She is mentioned in the Mahabharata. After the great battle has ended Ashwattama sneaks into the Pandava camp at night. Vengeful for his father Drona's death, he goes against the rules of warfare and attacks those sleeping. During this he sees Kalaratri, presumably representing the horrors of war and what it brings out in man with her bloody aspect. She is described as having a dark aspect with a bloody mouth and bloody eyes, with red garlands and smeared with scarlet unguents, wearing a single piece of crimson cloth, holding a noose in hand. She comes in the form of an elderly lady chanting a dismal note.
 
 Kalaratri is mentioned in the Skanda Purana. Lord Shiva goes to his wife, Parvati to help the gods as they are terrorised by the demon-king, Durgamasur. Parvati sends Goddess Kaalratri, a bewitchingly beautiful female to help. Some sources say that Parvati removes her golden skin, to reveal her Kaalratri black-skinned form and goes forth to help.
 
 Once two demons named Shumbha and Nishumbha invaded devaloka and Indra and Shiva prayed to Parvati to help. She was bathing while she heard their prayer so she created another goddess, Chandi (Ambika) to defeat the demons. Shumbha and Nishumbha sent Chanda and Munda to fight for them and on their approach Goddess Chandi created a dark goddess called Kali or Kalaratri to kill them. On doing so she also got the name Chamunda.
 Then a demon called Raktbija came who had a peculiar and powerful blessing, for every drop of his blood that touched earth, another Raktbija would be born and soon the battlefield was filled with such demons. To put an end to this, Kalaratri drank up all his blood, preventing the drops from spilling on the Earth and thus overcame and defeated him. 
 
 A different version states that Goddess ChamundaKali created Kalaratri. Mounted upon a powerful donkey, Kalaratri brought the demons Chanda and Munda and to Kali after chasing, catching and incarcerating them. Then these demons were killed by KaliChamunda.
 
 Another story tells us of a when the demon Durgasur tried to attack Kailash when Shiva wasn't there. Parvati found out of this and created Kaalratri to warn Durgasur against an attack. Kaalratri went to deliver the message but Durgasur's guards tried to capture Kaalratri. Kaalratri then assumed a gigantic form and did her duty, delivering the message. However Durgasur did invade Kailash and Parvati battled and killed him earning the name Durga.
 
 In myths these goddesses destroy rakshasas or asuras, demons with selfish and wicked goals and actions. With our prayers, actions and thoughts we attempt to invoke and channel this energy to destroy the evil energy corrupting our mind, life and surroundings. Demons are manifest in our lives in such subtle forms and by calling upon the terrifying aspect of the goddess and trying to channel her energy to bolster our power and goodness we attempt to bring positivity and banish evil from our lives.
 
 
 
 The prayers to this form of the goddess follow the same pattern as the prayers to her other forms but for these differences.
 
 
 
 
 कालरात्रि जय-जय महाकाली ।
 
 काल के मुंह से बचानेवाली ।।
 
 दुष्ट संघारक नाम तुम्हारा ।
 
 महाचंडी तेरा अवतारा ।।
 
 पृथ्वी और आकाश पे सारा ।
 महाकाली है तेरा पसारा ।।
 
 खड्ग खप्पर रखनेवाली ।
 दुष्टों का लहू चखनेवाली ।।
 
 कलकत्ता स्थान तुम्हारा ।
 सब जगह देखूं तेरा नजारा ।।
 
 सभी देवता सब नर-नारी ।
 गावें स्तुति सभी तुम्हारी ।।
 
 रक्तदंता और अन्नपूर्णा ।
 कृपा करे तो कोई भी दुख ना ।।
 
 ना कोई चिंता रहे बीमारी ।
 ना कोई गम ना संकट भारी ।।
 
 उस पर कभी कष्ट ना आवे ।
 महाकाली मां जिसे बचावे ।।
 
 तू भी भक्त प्रेम से कह ।
 कालरात्रि मां तेरी जय ।।
 
 
 
 
 “एकवेणी जपाकर्णपूरा नग्ना खरास्थिता।
 लम्बोष्ठी कर्णिकाकर्णी तैलाभ्यक्तशरीरिणी॥
 
 वामपादोल्लसल्लोहलताकण्टक भूषणा।
 वर्धन्मूर्धध्वजा कृष्णा कालरात्रिर्भयंकरी॥“
 
 Kaalratri rules over the planet Shani or Saturn(Who also represents time). She punishes evil and rewards goodness, hard work and sincerity. Praying to her is a way to escape the afflictions caused by the unfavorable position of Shani and the sade sati period. 
 
