BENGALURU: Forty days after the high court’s deadline for   to ensure all its 198 ward committees meet, activists say very few of them have actually held talks.

 “Some 10-15 committees have had meetings so far, but this is still a very small number. The BBMP should set a fixed date and time for these discussions every month, and they should be held in its ward office. This way, even those not part of the committees will be able to attend,” said Srinivas Alavilli of Citizens for Bengaluru. BBMP officials, however, claimed 66 ward committees had met in November.
 
 On November 10, the court said the BBMP should get all its ward committees to meet by November 30, 2017. The court even set the agenda for the meeting: preparation of ward-level plan for proper management of solid waste and finalization of locations for waste processing units within wards. These plans were to be consolidated into an action taken report by the Palike and published on its website, as well as presented to the court at the next hearing. 
 
 A booklet on the BBMP’s solid waste management policies was also to be handed over to ward committees by November 20, but this was done only nine days later. The ward committees are slated to meet at least once every month. But   of   said the committees met only in November and not in December.
 
 “When I last checked with the solid waste management department, only two ward committees had submitted reports. In some areas, several sham meetings were held, with members just signing a register to say they were present,” he claimed.
 
 The ward committees, which were intended to hold councillors accountable and provide a platform where citizens could tackle problems facing their wards, have allegedly been packed with spouses, friends and supporters of the corporators.
 
 Yogeesh Prabhuswamy, a resident of Marenahalli, ward number 125, said his councillor was unaware of any deadline set by the high court. “When I tried contacting the corporator, I was only able to speak to her husband, who is also a committee member. He said they hadn’t heard of any court ruling. I had to brief him about it,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad claimed 66 ward committees held meetings in November. “The committees will meet every month, and 66 of them had meetings in the first month. Since these committees have just been formed, they don’t have the knowledge to decide the solid waste management plans as yet. We’ve directed officers to tell them to discuss these issues in the coming meetings,” he said. 
 
 
