COIMBATORE: Every time a commuter travels on Cowley Brown Road, he needs to apply brake every 100m to avoid a manhole cover set up by the   that protrudes at least by 6 inches above the road. 

 It is a tad different on Kamarajar Road in   as the road sinks every 100m where a manhole cover is placed.
 
 Govind Yadave, a resident from Singanallur, has petitioned the chief minister’s cell regarding the uneven road. 
 
 “Kamarajar Road is one of the important roads in the city that connects   on Trichy Road and Hope College Junction on  . In December 2016, the civic body dug up the roads for laying underground drainage pipelines. They completed the work in October 2017. The road consists of many ups and downs causing danger to users. I have already complained about this to the corporation and highways department, but no action has been taken,” he said.
 
 All these roads, re-laid after underground drainage pipelines work was completed, have turned into dangerous stretches for commuters. 
 
 “Even   and several state highways and national highways roads are highly uneven. Some roads had caved in such as Good Shed Road and Sowripalayam Road,” said a city-based architect. 
 
 He said, “Before laying any road, levels of the road need to be marked. Roads should be dug out, levelled and then bitumen should be laid. But mostly that is not done and on the existing surface, roads are re-laid. Six inches height is increased every time roads are re-laid. In some locations, houses are constructed 3 feet to 5 feet above road even though the ideal height should be 1.5 feet only,” said an architect.
 
 Under the ‘Smart City’ model road project, the NGOs and architects have come up with a policy book in which they have laid out the parameters for underground utilities. “When model roads come up on DB Road, we will ensure that roads are always leveled,” said an engineer. 
 
 Ideally, roads should be re-laid only once in seven or 10 years. “But corporation roads are damaged every three years exposing their bad engineering,” said an engineer.
 
  of ITDP said, “Manhole covers should never protrude. More than four-wheelers, two-wheelers meet with a lot of accidents. Roads need to be drilled and road height should not be increased,” she said.
 
 Corporation engineers when contacted said that the underground drainage project began in 2009 and is still being carried out. So far, they have laid out more than 570km of the total 582.88km of the proposed drainage pipelines in the 60 wards in the corporation limits. And there are 20,993 manhole covers on these roads. 
 
 “Since, there are lot of complaints on delay, we are forced to relay the roads quickly. Ideally it takes three months for the debris to get leveled as we must dig more than 5-feet to lay the pipelines,” said a corporation engineer. 
 
 
