PATNA: Even as several ‘professional’ student leaders owing allegiance to different political parties have become hyperactive on the campus following the announcement of the Patna University Students’ Union ( ) election, very few of them will be able to contest it.

 The statutes of the students’ union election approved by the governor on January 12 prescribe certain conditions for students who wish to contest it. And, most of the professional leaders will hardly fulfil these conditions and, hence, they will remain out of the election arena. Election to the PUSU is scheduled for February 17.
 
 There is age limit for various categories of students and there will be no relaxation in any case. The maximum age for undergraduate students is 22 years and it is 25 for postgraduates. The age limit for LLM students is 27 and 28 years for registered research scholars.
 
 The statutes provide that no student who has been in the same class for more than one academic session shall be entitled to file nomination. Candidate should have attained the minimum 75% attendance on the date of filing nomination. Besides, no student shall be eligible to file nomination to any office of the union after a period of five years of first admission in the university.
 
 No student who has been found guilty of using unfair means in examination or one who has been expelled from hostel or college on disciplinary grounds or chargesheeted or convicted by any court of law shall be eligible to contest the election.
 
 Furthermore, no candidate can contest simultaneously for more than one post. The candidate shall have one opportunity to contest for the post of office-bearer and two opportunities for the post of an executive member. The maximum permitted expenditure for contesting election per candidate shall be Rs2,000 only for college or university representative and Rs5,000 only for the office-bearers.
 
 No candidate shall be permitted to make use of printed posters or pamphlets for the purpose of canvassing. They may use handmade posters and their photocopies. They are not permitted to deface or write on campus walls and are also prohibited from taking out processions and holding public meetings outside the campus. Use of loudspeakers, vehicles or animals for electioneering is also prohibited. No canvassing shall be allowed after 10pm in the boys’ hostels and after 6pm in the girls’ hostels.
 
 Direct election will be held for five key offices, namely, president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. There shall be a central council of the union consisting of all the five office-bearers, all the college representatives and all the faculty representatives. Besides, there shall be an executive council which shall consist of the office-bearers and five members of the central council elected by its members. The executive council may elect cultural secretary and sports secretary from among its members.
 
 “The duration of the union shall be one year, from August 16 to August 15 of the following year. But, this time, as the election is being held in the month of February, the duration of the union will be about six months only,” said PU sources.
 
 
