CHENNAI:   received less than 1% of the ₹3.95 lakh crore investments attracted by various states across the country in the year 2017. In what could be seen as a reflection of the prevailing political stalemate, it drew a mere ₹3,131 crore, or less than 1% (0.8%) of the total investments in the country, through 62 proposals last year.

 While the share of investments attracted by Tamil Nadu has been on a downhill since 2015, it has been increasing in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat and Maharashtra, according to data compiled by   (DIPP), Union ministry of commerce & industry. The data shows India received 1,972 investment proposals worth ₹3.95 lakh crore across all states and Union Territories in 2017.
 
 
  
  
 While the data has highlighted the stark reality, the state government has been boasting that investments into the state have been normal. Industries minister M C Sampath claimed in November 2017 that the state continued to attract new investments, given its supply of skilled labour and developed infrastructure.
 
 “Companies like   and   were expanding their investments in the state. Swedish furniture giant IKEA was looking at Tamil Nadu to set up its manufacturing unit,” said Sampath, at a CII Connect 2017 event. He reiterated this even in the state legislative assembly that the state was wooing more investments.
 
 As per the DIPP data, Karnataka led the states by receiving a maximum number of 194 proposals and resulting in investments to the tune of ₹1.52 lakh crore. A bulk of investments attracted by Karnataka was in the IT/ITES sector.
 
 “The main reason for Tamil Nadu not being able to woo investments is the political situation, especially after the death of former chief minister  .
 
 “Our state lost opportunities, especially from   (which has broken ground in Andhra Pradesh), as the local government was in a limbo,” said CII-Tamil Nadu chairman P Ravichandran.
 
 But Ravichandran is confident of investments increasing in Tamil Nadu in the coming period. “The investment situation is likely to improve with the state government passing the Business Facilitation Act. In the next six months, we can see more investments happening in the state,” said Ravichandran.
 
 Apart from blaming the political situation, financial analysts lamented that the state did not have a proper industrial policy. “It is shocking to know that an industrial state like Tamil Nadu has received less than 1% of the total investments. The data shows what the public believe that nothing is happening with the present government,” said financial analyst and   legislator P T R Thyagarajan.
 
 The urgent need for improving the investment situation in the state is to usher in transparency in the working of the government, he said. “There must be a proper land acquisition policy, tax policy and the creation of infrastructure facilities for the companies interested in investing in Tamil Nadu,” said Thyagarajan.
  
