KOCHI : A 1,400km ride through terrains both rugged and the smooth - three men from   braved it all - pedalling all the way from Delhi to Nepal and back. 'Delhi-Nepal Ride', the first of its kind organized in the country, saw 23 participants, among which were   K D ( ), a hotelier,  , a businessman, and  , a hardware professional at NEST, all members of  .

 "Though I had participated in 600 and 1,000 km rides before, this one was the longest and the toughest of them all. We had to ride in minus two degrees and heavy fog with a visibility less than 10 metres. We had to focus on the white line through the middle of the road to guess where the road is going," said 53-year old Leju, who had turned to cycling for fitness five years ago.
 
 The group had to do a 100km stretch without a pause, sometimes because the weather was too cold, and halting would mean their body turning cold, leading to difficulty in cycling any further; and sometimes because it was jungles, and no water was available.
 
 "We pedalled 27 hours at a stretch to reach the checkpoint on time. The route included stretches as long as 320km, which were full of slippery round stones, dirt tracks through jungles 100 km and more," Leju said.
 
 Around 30km before reaching the final checkpoint,   met with an accident at Delhi.
 
 "There was lot of traffic and I fell face-first upon hitting the handle of a fellow rider. I underwent what I think was a short term memory loss - I could not identify the people around me, or remember what happened till I reached the checkpoint. I was taken to a clinic after I met with the accident by my fellow riders. After landing in Kochi also I went to a hospital and was advised to rest for a bit," Raghuram said.
 
 The three cyclists will now have the eligibility to participate in Tour de France, having achieved the title of 'Super Randonneur'.The honour is being extended as they completed the ride, which had an allotted time of 108 hours, in 106 hours. The trio are thrilled to participate in the international event that will take place in 2019.
 
 
