AHMEDABAD: A   of Gandhinagar district has been fined Rs 3.51 lakh for  , and told to pay Rs 1 lakh as   to a a student for meting out corporal punishment.

 The Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum of Gandhinagar district fined MG Chaudhary Vidhya Sankul, run by Akhil Anjana Seva Mandal in Mansa, and told it to pay the sum to the Gujarat State Consumer Welfare Fund.
 
 The issue came to the consumer court after a physical education teacher meted out corporal punishment to a class 7 student, Shubh Jani, in 2015. The child was also hit with a duster on his head. The student’ father took exception to this, sought details about the functioning of the school under RTI laws and took up the matter with the education department. The school authorities were then exposed with the educational qualifications of its teachers coming on record.
 
 The student’s father also moved the consumer court demanding compensation for the corporal punishment meted out to the kid. In response to the court’s notice, the school authorities placed all documents including an apology letter from the physical education teacher, admitting their mistake.
 
 The consumer forum, comprising judges M J Mehta and Priti Pandya, concluded that the school’s management had not hired adequately qualified people according to the norms laid out by the government. By appointing teachers of low calibre, the school jeopardized the future and careers of students. The court noted that none of the teachers held education degrees. Three out of six teachers did not clear the mandatory Teachers’ Aptitude Test. Moreover, the teachers would pressure students to get private tuitions.
 
 The court cited all documents that came on record during the departmental proceedings and said that the school management violated rules, which are meant to ensure a good education for the children and proper school management.
 
 Besides its order to deposit Rs 3.51 lakh with the consumer welfare fund and Rs 1 lakh to the student for corporal punishment, the court also told the school’s trust and its principal to pay Rs 5,500 to student’s parents as compensation for mental agony and legal expenditure.
 
 
