Yercaud (Salem): Several hundred tourists flocked to the hill station of Yercaud on Saturday, as they didn’t want to miss the grand, colourful opening ceremony of the summer festival. And it had all the cultural and other aesthetic elements ranging from floral display, classic dances and plays to make their day.

 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami inaugurated the 43rd edition of the Yercaud summer festival as forest minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, agriculture minister R Duraikannu, tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, principal secretary to the government Apoorva Varma and district collector Rohini R Bhajibhakare looked on.
 
 The chief minister also opened the flower, fruit, vegetable and photo exhibitions, which are part and parcel of the five-day summer festival.
 
 Floral structures of state assembly, tractor with a farmer, flight, queen and cartoon characters Motu, Patlu and Sinchan enthralled both the elders and the young alike.
 
 Cartoon characters were made with thousands of colourful roses and other flowers, while the structure of the queen was made with several hundred carnation flowers, gerbera and anthurium flowers.
 
 More than 2.5 lakh flowers are on display at the festival. Botanical garden alone has more than 100 varieties of 50,000 potted flower display, which was widely appreciated by the tourists.
 
 Other attractions included exhibitions by various government departments, boat riding competition, musical concerts and sports competition.
 
 “To praise farmers, we have displayed the floral structure of a tractor with a farmer on it. And the structure of the flight was put up in showcase the revival of the Salem airport with new flight operations,” the chief minister said.
 
 Palaniswami also appealed the tourists to visit Yercaud to witness the summer festival. He also used the occasion to drive home the importance of preserving the nature by planting trees. “We will get rain only if we protect the nature,” he said. 
 
 Tourists, meanwhile, appreciated the arrangements. “The Botanical garden is decked up with flowers. The summer festival is really superb,” said S Sujatha, a domestic traveller.
 
 The district administration has arranged special government bus service to Yercaud from Salem city. Parking facilities have also been set in place at Yercaud town.
 
 The district administration has urged the tourists not to dump plastic items in the forest or event venues.
 
 
