GURUGRAM: A ruckus broke out at the Sector 31 branch of a reputed private school chain on Saturday after the school management informed parents of nearly 250 students of classes IX and X that their wards have to transfer to the Bhondsi branch from this session. 

 However, the school management took back their decision after parents strongly objected to the move, saying their wards won't go to the Bhondsi school where a murder had recently taken place. 
 
  TOI is not naming the school group because of relevant court instructions in the ongoing trial in the case. 
 
 The Sector 31 school started functioning only four years ago and Classes IX and X were incorporated a year later. The school is allegedly not affiliated with CBSE yet.
 
 The parents got a shocker on Saturday when they were informed of the school's decision. Angry parents concerned about the safety of their wards started started shouting 'this is not acceptable' and within a few minutes, the decision was taken back. 
 
  whose daughter is in Class IX said, "The new session will start from Monday and the school called for a meeting with parents on Saturday. We have paid the fees and bought the books but now the school is asking us to move our kids to the Bhondsi school. This is not done. The school didn't even explain why they were planning to shift classes IX and X but said it was having some issues with CBSE."
 
 Referring to the murder of a school kid this September in the Bhondsi school, parents said they did not trust the Bhondsi management and would not send their kids there at any cost. "I will not send my kid to the Bhondsi school. The murder showed that there is no security in that school," said   whose daughter studies in Class IX. Nisha Verma whose daughter studies in Class IX echoed his sentiments, adding, "The distance is also an issue." 
 
 The school had taken a written affidavit from parents this February, affirming that students of classes IX and X would study in the Sector 31 school but the name of the school on their exam papers would be of the Bhondsi school.   whose kid studies in Class IX said, "The school had taken an undertaking from us, saying all classes and PTMs would be conducted on this campus but the Bhondsi school would be named in our wards' exam papers. The affidavit also said that parents would not approach the media."
 
 After an uproar by the 250-odd parents, the school retracted its statement and issued a circular, saying classes I to X would be held on the Sector 31 campus.   said, "In this coming session, classes IX and X will function from this branch." 
 
 Even then, the parents were not satisfied. "The school called the parents to harass them. The meeting was held from 9am to 1 pm. I don't have any faith in this school. Now, we will worry about this whenever we receive a notification from the school," said Bhardwaj.
 
 The principal said she had no idea why the school planned to shift students. "The decision was taken by the higher authorities. I don't have any information on the school's affiliation," she said, adding she had been working in the school for the past three months only. 
 
 When TOI spoke with the Bhondsi school management, officials said they had not received any information on transfer of the Sector 31 students to their campus. 
 
 Mukesh Kumar, an official with the education department, said, "We haven't received any report from the parents and we don't know why the school made plans to shift students. However, if it has plans to close this branch, we should get that information."
 
 
