MUMBAI: Unfazed by the plaster slab on her leg,   (23) was all smiles and looking forward to the future while being discharged from Bhatia   on Saturday. Three weeks earlier, she had been wheeled into the hospital in a serious condition after having lost a few fingers of her left hand and a portion of her right foot. A 17-year-old thief, perched atop a railway signal pole, had struck her with a bamboo stick while she was answering a phone call at the door of a local train. The blow made her fall and subsequently another   crushed her hand and a leg.

 Determined to put memories of the incident behind her, Dravita said her only goal now is to start walking again and returning to her routine. Doctors said her recovery process has been satisfactory and she could be back on her feet in two months. “I want to board the same ladies special train to CSMT and at the same time that I had on the day I was injured,” she told TOI. She also plans to appear for her graduation exam in April and walk to college for it. “My treating doctor has challenged me to run the Mumbai Marathon next year and I’m up for it,” she said with a grin.
 
 Things haven’t been this easy for Dravita though. “It was tough and I wouldn’t have bounced back without the help of my doctors. There were times when I confided in them more than my family,” she said. 
 
 Dravita had broken down when the doctors took off her bandages and she saw her wounds clearly for the first time. “I have started writing down everything that I went through in a diary. It is therapeutic. So far, there are a few lines of poetry and thank-you notes for my doctors,” she said.
 
 “Dravita underwent a skin-grafting procedure to salvage her right foot, two weeks ago. The skin grafts have taken up well. The foot is now protected with a plaster slab. After the grafts settle well, around four to six weeks later, she would be given a walking trial with a special kind of footwear. She will be required to come to   twice a week for evaluation and dressing,” said Dr Shailesh Ranade, plastic surgeon at the hospital treating her. 
 
 “Her wound did not develop any infection and her recovery process has been satisfactory,” he added. Though studies for her graduation exams beckon, Dravita wants to have some fun after getting back home on Saturday. 
 
 “As soon as I reach home, I’m just going to hop from one room to another for some time. I’ve missed being home with my family,” she said, adding that there may be a Holi party on the cards. “I have invited my friends and relatives over. I’m determined to be happy,” she said.
 
 
