BENGALURU:   have completed the signing of Spanish midfielder  , who has scored a few time in  , the club confirmed on Friday.

 
 The 30-year-old Albacete native joins from Polish side Wisla Krakow, and replaces Edu Garcia in the squad who was sold to Chinese club Zhejiang Lucheng last week.
 
 Coach   said he was confident the late addition will be an important one.
 
 "We are happy to have got Victor for the rest of the season. He is an experienced player and will provide us with a good option as we enter the business end of the season. The   play-offs are at the door and we even have the AFC Cup and the Super Cup to play for, where his experience will come handy," said the Bengaluru boss.
 
 Having put pen to paper on a deal till the end of the season, Victor shared his delight at being part of the Bengaluru setup.
 
 "I was at the stadium last night and enjoyed the way the team played. The atmosphere was fantastic too. I cannot wait to get on the pitch and contribute to all that this club is trying to achieve," said Perez who will wear the No.44 shirt at BFC.
 
 Born in Albacete, Castile-La Mancha, Victor began his professional career with Getafe CF 'B' and AD Alcorc贸n 'B'. The midfielder broke into Alcorc贸n's first team in the 2008-09 season, competing in Segunda Division B.
 
 The following season, Victor was signed by Segunda Division side SD Huesca where over two seasons he made 44 league appearances.
 
 At the start of the 2011-12 season, he moved to Real Valladolid and played a key role in his side's promotion winning campaign. Victor was an ever present figure in the Valladolid midfield clocking up 43 appearances and scoring six times as they won the promotion play-offs to return to La Liga after a two-year absence.
 
 The following two seasons, Victor continued to impress at Valladolid in La Liga where he made 44 appearances scoring five goals in the Spanish top-flight. In 2014-15, the midfielder played for Levante in La Liga before a short stint at Major League Soccer-side Chicago Fire in the US.
 
 Victor returned to Spain to play for C贸rdoba CF (2015-16) and Alcorc贸n (2016-17) in the Spanish second division, before moving out of Spain once again to join Polish side Wisla Krakow at the start of the 2017-18 season.
 
