RAJKOT: In yet another incident of fire, nearly 28,000 groundnut bags (each of 35 kg) worth nearly Rs 5 crore, were gutted in a massive blaze that erupted in a warehouse in Shapar-Veraval in   taluka late on Sunday night. Rajkot rural police have formed three teams to investigate this incident.

 The warehouse was taken on rent to store groundnut procured at a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 900 per 20 kg. It was hired on rent by National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India LTD (Nafed), the government-designated agency responsible for procurement of groundnut at MSP.
 
  
  
 
 Fire officials said that that blaze was brought under control after 15 hours but smoke is still billowing from inside and it will take a few days to completely douse it. Fire brigade teams from Rajkot, Gondal, Jasdan, Dhoraji and Jetpur are engaged in dousing the blaze.
 
 The warehouse didn’t have CCTV facility, security or electricity connection, its manager Rajeshsinh Chudasama told Shapar-Veraval police in his application. Four out of the total eight shades were charred.
 
 Agriculture minister R C Faldu told media persons, “I have asked the chief minister to handover the investigation to CID and he has assured about it.” 
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani has assured that the anyone found guilty of deliberately resorting to such act will be punished as per law.
 
 Narendra Patel, owner of warehouse, said nearly 43,000 bags were stored in the facility when fire broke out.
 
 This is the fifth such incident of blaze in groundnut warehouse in last four months and it is suspected that some miscreants are deliberately destroying the groundnut to cover-up massive irregularities in its procurement.
 
 Rajkot district administration has also ordered separate investigation. Collector Rahul Gupta told TOI that “The cause of fire is still unknown, police is investigating, and nearly 28,000 bags gutted in fire and this stock is procured at MSP this year from Jamnagar district.”
 
 Following pre-election announcement last year, the government has procured nearly 8.40 lakh tonnes groundnut from farmers at Rs 900 per 20 kg while the market price was Rs 650 to Rs 800. Government is finding it hard to sell the stock in open market.
 
 Antrip Sood, Rajkot superintendent of police (SP) told TOI: “We have formed three teams to investigate this massive fire. We are also probing if there was any sinister plot or was it a mere accident. We are also trying to find out the cause of fire and history of fire in this area. We are also in touch with all the agencies like forensice science laboratory (FSL), insurance company and are awaiting written opinion of  .”
 
 Paresh Dhanini, Leader of Opposition Congress in the state assembly alleged that the fires are deliberate attempts to cover-up massive irregularities in groundnut procurement. “Stones are mixed in the groundnut and the poor quality crop is procured. In order to destroy evidence,. the warehouses are set on fire.”
 
 Earlier, NAFED had suspended groundnut procurement on January 19 after complaints of irregularities in procurement surfaced. The procurement resumed at market yards with only strict rules like videography and photography of procurement and use ofr GPS-enabled vehicles that transport the stock.
 
 
