AIZAWL: After 28 years of armed conflict, the Manipur-based Hmar People's Convention (Democratic) will sign a memorandum of settlement with the   government next month, a senior home department official said on Sunday. 

 "An agreement has been reached during the first round of political-level talks held on March 7 and 8. Both sides have agreed to sign the accord soon," the official said. 
 
 Home minister   had informed the assembly on Tuesday that the agreement will be signed in April, resolving the " ".
 
 Cadres of the Hmar rebel group will lay down arms after the agreement, which will be followed by the government working on a law on the autonomy, functions and powers of the proposed   to be set up in the area covered by the Sinlung Hills Development Council ( ) at present.
 
 Negotiations with the other faction, led by Lalhmingthanga Sanate, failed after the Assam-based group sought a separate autonomous council and tripartite talks involving the Centre, and both demands were rejected by the Mizoram government. Subsequent efforts to bring the outfit to the negotiating table have not yielded any results.
 
 The demand for a separate autonomous council administering the northeastern part of Mizoram, adjoining Manipur, was raised in the 1980s. The Mizoram Hmar Association became a political party, Hmar People's Convention (HPC), in 1986 and led the movement for self-government. The Mizo Peace Accord, according to them, failed to address their demand - that of a Greater Mizoram integrating areas in neighbouring Assam and Manipur as well. HPC took up arms in its demand for autonomy, which ended with the group agreeing to hold talks with the state government in 1992. The culmination of the negotiations was the formation of the SHDC and the surrender of Hmar cadres in 1994.
 
 Dissatisfied with the direction things had taken, Sanate broke away from HPC and formed HPC (D) in 1995. It continued to demand a separate autonomous district council for the Hmar community under the Sixth Schedule. When Sanate signed the suspension of operation with the Manipur government along with Kuki militant groups, he was ousted as president by the Zosangbera faction. He was recently arrested by Assam Police on charges of murdering Norbar Sanate, finance secretary of the Zosangbera faction, and remains in judicial custody.
 
 
