CHENNAI: The new   for Tamil Nadu board students are much better than existing learning material provided by any other private publisher or board including National Council for Educational Research and Training, say experts. Containing everything from career guidance to trivia to national entrance test questions, the textbooks, revamped in style and content, are relatable, relevant and interesting.

 Experts who reviewed the textbooks lauded the government for improvising not only the content but also the presentation. They are optimistic the unique features would boost the samacheer kalvi curriculum adopted by more than 45,000 government and private matriculation schools from Classes I to XII. M Anandakrishnan, former   chairman, said, "This is one of the outstanding textbooks that has come out in recent years. The new features would attract attention". 
 
  
  
 
 TOI had access to   and some of the Class I, VI and IX textbooks which are not out yet and saw major changes were introduced in language textbooks. "Unlike the old textbooks which had separate poetry, prose and grammar sections, the new ones have around 10 themes including environment and technology. Some forgotten concepts like Chitra Kavi, Nagabantham have been included," said  , a government school teacher. 
 
 None of the pages is grey; they have illustrations explaining theoretical concepts that can be applied in day-to-day lives. For subjects like history there is an attempt to make the content more relatable. "Usually history books talk only about expeditions of great emperors and their benevolence. For the first time, we have spoken about common people without ignoring achievements of kings," said a professor from   who was part of the syllabus revision team. There is a chapter about how temples evolved as social institutions and acted not only as a spiritual place but also where literary works were presented, and arts and culture nurtured. It even speaks about how they functioned as banks during droughts and artillery storage units during wars. The new details were added based on evidence collected from across the world and corroborated with other sources including foreign accounts, said the professor. 
 
 Educationist Prince Gajendra Babu said questions were included after every chapter. "Besides the core content, connected details through titbits and activities have added value," he said.
 
 
