GANDHINAGAR: Despite uncertainty over who will form government in Karnataka, the Gujarat   celebrated the party’s performance in the southern state at the Gujarat party headquarters, Kamalam, near Gandhinagar on Tuesday.

 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel, Gujarat BJP president   and other party leaders participated in the celebrations along with party workers. 
 
 Earlier, the party directed workers from Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad districts to report to Kamalam after initial trends suggested BJP would reach the magic figure of 112 in Karnataka. However, the workers were left disappointed as BJP failed to reach the majority mark.
 
  Speaking to mediapersons, Rupani said, “The people of Karnataka have rejected the   and given the mandate to the BJP. This is a reflection of the confidence of the people in the leadership of PM   and Amit Shah. These results are just a precursor to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Congress is visible in just three states — Punjab, Mizoram and Puducherry. People have accepted the fact that only the PM and the BJP can take the country forward against the Congress politics of divide and rule.”
 
 Jitu Vaghani said, “The results have proved that the people have rejected Congress and their leader Rahul Gandhi. After   claimed he will be PM in 2019, the people of Karnataka voted aggressively against the Congress. Under Rahul Gandhi’s leadership since 2014, Congress has lost elections in 22 states and now it is losing its identity as a national party after losing Karnataka.’’
 
 BJP won through money power: Dhanani
 
 Paresh Dhanani, the leader of opposition in the state assembly, reacting to the results, said, “BJP won because of money power which influenced voters. A person sitting in the Prime Minister’s chair tried to threaten the opposition parties. Despite all this, the BJP failed to get a majority. The BJP could only increase their tally. The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular), despite having the same political ideology fought against each other. For the sake of the country, both parties will come together and form government.”
 
