NEW DELHI: A   team visited St Stephen’s College on Thursday to see if it can be granted  . But even as it did, teachers and students assembled at the gates to protest against the move. 

 Teachers opposed to the move addressed protesters from inside the locked gates and said the college had “hand-picked certain teachers and a few parents to create a false narrative of support for autonomy”.
 
 The six-member UGC team is led by Rajan Harshe, the former vice-chancellor of Allahabad University. The team came to to examine the college’s application for autonomy. “This despite 44 of 56 permanent teachers submitting representations to the UGC chairperson opposing it,” said DU Teacher’s Association in a statement. 
 
 “The decision to apply was taken in a hurried manner in an emergency meeting of the governing body without any position paper on the matter provided to the members, and ignoring the dissent given by all four teacher representatives on the body,” the   statement read. 
 
 Senior teacher Nandita Narain said, “The administration is pushing its agenda without consideration from any of the stakeholders.”
 
 Narain addressed the crowd of protesters who shouted “UGC go back”. “The principal tried to keep many of the senior teachers from meeting the committee today by hand-picking members of various departments who were invited for the interaction. A similar ploy was adopted for students as well as karamcharis,” Narain said.
 
 “The faculty had a very cordial and intensive interaction with the committee in which various teachers highlighted the main grounds of opposition as enunciated in their representation. Various aspects of financial and administrative misgovernance as well as victimisation and harassment of students and teachers were explained,” DUTA said in its statement.
 
 The teachers highlighted their main grouses: non-transparent mode of appointment of non-teaching staff, vacant teaching posts, opaque allotment of hostel seats, etc. 
 
 DUTA also expressed hope that the autonomy demand would be rejected as all stakeholders have unanimously rejected it. 
 
 DUTA also claimed that “the entire university community demonstrated its united opposition to fragmentation and privatisation of DU through graded autonomy and autonomous colleges, leading to self-financing courses, fee hike, autocratic managements, precarious service conditions of employees and decline in academic standards”. DUTA president Rajib Ray told TOI that the teachers did not evaluate any exam papers on Thursday in protest. 
 
 
