Kochi: Retail mogul and richest Indian in the Middle East,  , has acquired the iconic Scottish hotel   in Edinburgh for $117 million (Rs 750 crore) — as the founder of Lulu Group expands a portfolio of luxury hospitality assets across Europe, Arabian Gulf and India. 

 The acquisition of the 241-room property, which is operated by  , is the second marquee deal by Yusuff Ali after he paid $160 million to buy Great Scotland Yard, the former home of the Metropolitan Police of London, converting it into a five-star heritage hotel. Lulu Group’s hospitality investment arm   (T14H) has spent more than $650 million in the recent past to build a collection of luxury hotels in the UK, Middle East and Kerala.
 
 Adeeb Ahamed, son-in-law of Yusuff Ali and managing director of T14H, commented, “We are excited to add The Caledonian to the portfolio of Twenty14 Holdings. With more than 100 years of history, The Caledonian brings with it a rich heritage, character and unique opulence.” An imposing building in Edinburgh’s landscape, The Caledonian also boasts of   by   — two restaurants operated by Michelin-starred brothers Chris and Jeff Galvin. It also houses the only Guerlain spa in the UK.
 
 The 61-year-old self-made billionaire, Yusuff Ali, with an estimated worth of $4.5 billion, which makes him the fifth richest Indian in the Forbes List, built a retail empire through Lulu Hypermarkets. Lulu operates 133 stores across Middle East, India, Malaysia and Indonesia. The group, with revenue topping $7 billion, has diversified its business interests to include commercial real estate and hospitality among others. 
 
 “The group’s strategy is to invest in profitable British luxury properties with legacy and The Caledonian is an ideal fit. We are honoured to be part of this Scottish landmark that has a great significance for locals and visitors alike,” Ahamed said. It was designed by architects John More Dick Peddie and George Washington Browne for the Caledonian Railway’s Princess Street railway station — hence, it originally stood above the V-shaped station with direct access to the station. Locally known as ‘The Caley’, the hotel was expanded to the current shape, when the station was demolished in 1970.
 
 T14H plans to invest a further $27.5 million in the hotel. With acquisition completed, it now plans to engage local craftsmen to enhance the hotel’s historic Caledonian suites. “Luxury and style will be the keynote of these improvements. Bespoke furniture, eclectic artwork and en-suite bathrooms featuring marble and burnished chrome fittings will feature among a host of exclusive additions,” Ahamed added.Lulu’s hospitality unit co-owns Sheraton Oman Hotel in Muscat, a 230-room five-star hotel opened in 2016, and fully owns the Steigenberger Hotel Business Bay, a five-star property in Dubai. It also owns four hotels in Kochi — Grand Hyatt Kochi Bolgatty, Kochi Marriott Hotel, Courtyard by Marriott Kochi Airport and a fourth one which is scheduled for opening soon.
 
 
