Singer   is in the limelight again following the release of Evada Unna Petha, a ‘soup song’ for girls in Tamizh Padam 2.0. Excerpts from a chat with the singer…

 
 A couple of months ago, I got a call from director CS Amudhan sir and he said he wanted me to try the song. I have known music director Kannan and Amudhan sir for long and had worked with them earlier for jingles. So, it was easy for me to connect with them and we had super fun recording the song. But it was not an easy song to sing. Amudhan sir said that that he was not looking for a very refined singing. He explained the song’s situation and the expressions he was looking for. He said that he wanted a voice that sounded like that of a drunk girl and I tried singing so. He guided me well and even helped with the nuances of the song; I’m happy that it came out so well and has now gone viral. But honestly, when I recorded the song, I didn’t think that it will become this popular.
 
 
 I am getting mixed response, but mostly it’s positive. It’s quite natural that the ‘boys versus girls’ songs get noticed. We have not tried to hurt anyone intentionally. It’s just a fun song and there’s no need to take it seriously. Everyone knows about Amudhan sir and his sense of humour. I became his fan after watching Tamizh Padam and I love his humour. It was a challenging song and there was pressure but I enjoyed it. That said, I would say that each song is a challenge but I consider every song as my first song and give it my best.
 
 
 I am busy with my concerts and playback singing as well. Recently, my song Koottippo Koodave from Junga got me a lot of appreciation. It’s duet I sang with Sathyaprakash and I’m thankful to composer Siddharth Vipin for giving me a chance to sing it. It’s a beautiful song and I’m looking forward to the release of the movie. I am in a happy space now. I have also done a couple of songs in Tamil and Telugu, but I’m waiting for the official announcements from the respective teams. 
 
 
 DSP is like family. He has been my neighbour and he is like a brother to me. Even our families are very close. It was he who taught me and moulded me into a singer. I have learnt a lot under him — studio techniques, modulations and such nuances. But that doesn’t mean that he will give me a song just like that. He will ask me to record a song only if he is convinced that my voice is apt for the track. I have sung a couple of songs in Telugu under his music direction. Let’s see when they release.
 
 
