HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company (TSSPDCL) lost Rs 1,300 crore revenue because of power theft and other distribution issues in past five years. The southern circle, which encompasses   and its surrounding areas, accounts for more than 40% of the losses. Now, TSSPDCL is levying surcharges on bills to recover its losses.

 Old City accounts for 80% of the southern circle and includes divisions such as Charminar and Asmangarh and areas such as Santoshnagar, Bhavani Nagar, Madannapet, Chanchalguda, Dabirpura, Moghulpura and Falaknuma as well as Karwan and Mangalhat under Begum Bazar division. The discom has collect only 52% of total amount it should have from consumers who resorted to power pilferage.
 
 The Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) audit report mentioned huge losses being suffered by TSSPDCL. “Of the total energy losses, south circle of Hyderabad contributed 40% in 2016-17. The losses in south circle were attributed to unauthorized loads” the   report said.
 
 Despite losses, the southern discom tried to manipulate the figures, CAG said. According to CAG report, TSSDPCL reported lesser energy losses by 2,327 million units valued at about Rs 1,200 crore to the Central government agencies, like Power Finance Corporation, by adopting incorrect method. “While calculating the losses, the purchases and sales should have been measured using the same unit of measurement, but the discom used different methods,” CAG said.
 
 The distribution and transmission losses, including power theft, are more than the limit set by   (SERC). While the   set 10% limit as power distribution losses, the southern discom losses touched 11.5% of total power supply.
 
 According to report, vigilance department had booked 57,000 power theft cases after 1.2 lakh raids in 2016-17 in various circles of TSSPDCL comprising the erstwhile districts of Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar and Medak. While it was supposed to collect Rs 21 crore for its losses, it was able to recover only Rs 10 crore in the last financial year. For the past five years (2012-17), the total unrealised amount accumulated to about Rs 36 crore. “From October 2015, 300 monthly inspection targets were given to each officer in Detection of Pilferage of Energy wing. But the target covered only 1.5% of the total consumers a year,” the report pointed out.
 
 When contacted, TSSDPCL chairman and managing director,  , admitted that power theft is rampant in south circle and measures are being taken to curb the problem.
 
