HYDERABAD: Chief minister   has decided to hold local body elections in the last week of February and also plans to increase the number of panchayats from existing 8,684 to more than 12,000. Sources said the CM wants to test the political waters through local body polls before the 2019 general elections.

 “The CM wanted to pose a challenge to the Opposition by holding the local body polls in Feb. The elections will reveal the political situation in the state and the government will also get sufficient time to make course correction before the general elections,” said a minister who was privy to the information.
 
 On Tuesday, the CM also decided to distribute new passbooks to 71 lakh farmers on auspicious Dasami day on March 11, while the budget session would be held from March 12. The CM also directed all public representatives to participate in the programme for which a nodal officer would be appointed. Addressing the collectors’ meet on Tuesday, the CM said, “Panchayat raj polls should take place compulsorily. Geographical boundaries should be fixed based on the reports sent by the district panchayat raj officers for the formation of gram panchayats. The Constitutions also stipulates this.”
 
 
 
 “Gram panchayats should be formed in such a way that it should not lead to any litigation. We will bring in a legislation for this. There are 8,684 gram panchayats now and another 4,000 will be added,” he added.
 
 KCR also pointed that the state-level finance commission will be provided with Rs 2,000 crore funds. The TRS government is planning to grant Rs 5 lakh for small panchayats (population of 500) and Rs 10 lakh to villages with more than 500 population. Under three other categories, Rs 15 lakh, Rs 20 lakh and up to Rs 25 lakh will be given. Under the new act, taxes will be collected without fail and central funds will be transferred to villages for the effective implementation of the schemes.
 
 The CM’s move apparently took the  , TDP and   by surprise as it was believed that the government may not hold the polls as it was busy with drafting of new act. Now, the Opposition has to rush to revive their local body units which were mostly inactive after 2014 elections.
 
 
 
 
 Hyderabad: Senior Congress leader and former MP   on Tuesday said the ruling party’s proposal to conduct indirect election to the post of sarpanch will deprive the common people an opportunity to contest for the post. “Only the candidates who have money will stand a chance to win the seat as an indirect election throws open the doors for horse-trading. The ruling TRS would stand to benefit the most with an indirect election. The Congress party will oppose all the anti-democratic decisions incorporated in the draft of the new Panchayat Raj Act,”   said. 
 
 
