
 NEW DELHI: Congress president   today attacked the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying they have destroyed all India's institutions that are based on the Constitution by installing in them people with the RSS's ideology.
 
 Gandhi further said that Modi isn't interested in the upliftment of Dalits, minorities and women, or in giving farmers fair prices, or in generating jobs. He's just interested in being Prime Minister, said the Congress president, as he blamed Modi for rising atrocities on   and minorities, the spate of rapes of minors and for farmers killing themselves.
 
 The   was speaking at the launch of the party's 'Save the Constitution' campaign. 
 
 In his address, he made special mention of the BJP slogan 'Save the girl child, educate the girl child' and said the BJP is now reduced to the slogan 'BJP se  ' or 'Save the girl child--from BJP MLAs'. Gandhi was referring to the fact that two now-ex BJP ministers in Kashmir marched to support rape accused persons and to the fact that a BJP MLA in Uttar Pradesh is a rape accused. 
 
 Gandhi said that Modi and the BJP-RSS have destroyed the country's institutions like the Supreme Court.
  
 "Modi ji has said people who clean toilets and excreta could have stopped 
 doing these jobs, but they don't because these jobs satisfy their spiritual side. A man who thinks like this isn't really interested in the welfare of Dalits," said Gandhi.
 
  This, he said, reflects the RSS mindset.
 
 "If there are institutions today the Constitution is their base. And today in all our institutions, there are people with the RSS's ideology installed in them, people who think cleaning toilets is a spiritual act," said Gandhi. 
 
 He cited the example of four most senior judges calling a press conference as further proof that institutions are being destroyed.
 
 "Usually, the public goes to a judge for justice. For the first time, four Supreme Court judges came to the public to ask for justice. The SC is being crushed, Parliament is shut, nothing is being done on the Nirav Modi Lalit Modi or Vijay Mallya cases," said Gandhi.
 
 Gandhi further challenged Modi to let him speak for 15 minutes in Parliament
 
 "Let me speak for 15 minutes in Parliament in front of Modi, he won't be able to stand there……the whole country understands this," said Gandhi.
 
 The Congress president further accused Modi of being uncaring.
 
 "Dalits die, atrocities are visited on them and other minorities, women and girls are raped and all he wants to know is that he is PM, and how to stay PM is all he's interested in…In cleaning toilets there's spirituality (for others, according to Modi), but Modi gets spirituality only from being PM," said Gandhi.
 
  
 
 
