Students and political outfits took to the streets all over   on Tuesday to  .

 In Madurai, police had to resort to lathicharge after students of Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College blocked the Tirupparankundram Main Road, bringing traffic to a halt.
 
 Earlier in the day, Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers staged a road blockade at Periyar bus terminal. It was led by urban district secretary R Vijayarajan. They raised slogans against the state government. Police forcibly evicted them from the spot later. CPI functionaries, meanwhile, staged a protest at Chinnakadai near South Gate, led by urban district secretary Jayaraman.
 
 In Kanyakumari, hundreds of college students blocked a road at Nithiravilai Junction. Students of St Jude’s College, Thoothoor, raised slogans urging the government to withdraw the fare hike. The protesters affected traffic for close to 30 minutes. At Scott Christian College, Nagercoil, students and   workers sat at the entrance of the college and staged a demonstration. In Trichy, 60 students of Kurinji College blocked a road at Chathiram bus stand. Police detained several students to end the blockade. As many as 100 students of Khajamalai campus of   took out a procession from their college to Trichy collector’s office to submit a petition demanding free bus pass. Similar protests were also seen in Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur.
 
 Coimbatore witnessed several protests by students and political parties. Around 150 students of Government Arts College boycotted classes and staged a road roko in the morning. Tension prevailed as police stepped in to clear the students from the road.
 
 In Vellore, police detained around 80 students of the Law College who squatted on the Mangalore-Vellore National Highway at Silk Milk bus stop.
 
 Meanwhile, members of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) conducted an opinion poll to know peoples’ reaction to the hike. According to S Amudha, district president of AIDWA, they got opinions from 2,318 people. “Everyone flayed the move and said it was not justified,” she said.
 
 
