MOHALI: Police on Sunday made the first   in the Punjabi singer shooting case, laying hands on an aide of the gangster who claimed responsibility for firing at   in his Facebook account.

 Harvinder Singh, alias Happy, was caught from Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, said senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Happy was in the Hyundai Creta SUV in which the assailants intercepted the Toyota Fortuner SUV being driven by Verma and one of them opened fire at him and his friend near his home in Sector 91 in the early hours of Saturday.
 
 “We have attained success in arresting one of the gangsters allegedly involved in the attempt to murder Verma. His interrogation is on. The motive was to eliminate Verma. Happy is said to be a close aide of Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, alias Dilpreet Baba, the prime suspect,” the SSP said.
 
 Happy was arrested in a raid conducted by a police party in the early hours of Sunday, said sources.
 
 Police said three to four suspects have also been rounded up. Police teams are conducting searches in various other districts of Punjab, where suspects are alleged to be hiding. Police are also on the lookout for Dilpreet in Bathinda, Ropar and Moga districts.
 
 Parmish and his friend Kulwant are still under observation at a private hospital in  . Doctors said the two may be discharged after one or two days.
 
 Parmish and Kulwant came under attack around 12:30 am on Saturday at Sector 74 turning, just 300 metres away from their residence in a housing society in Sector 91.
 
 After the attack, Dilpreet Singh claimed responsibility on Facebook. He uploaded a status on his Facebook account, along with a picture of himself holding a pistol and another picture of Verma with a cross drawn on it showing to eliminate him.
 
 Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “They had motive to kill him. They first followed him from Elante Mall and allegedly attacked him when he had dropped his bouncers.”
 
 Another arrest in Amritsar 
 
 Amritsar police have arrested gangster Bhupinder Singh, alias   Don, a close aide of Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, who is wanted in connection with the attack on ‘Gaal Ni Kadhni’ fame Punjabi singer   Verma. Amritsar senior superintendent of police (rural) Parampal Singh said, “No evidence of Bhinda’s involvement in the attack on Parmish has come to light. He is wanted in a murder case. But his arrest will help in tracing the whereabouts of Dilpreet Singh.” Police recovered a .32 bore pistol and four live cartridges from his possession.
 
 
 
