KOCHI: A transgender person attempted suicide at the Central police station following an arrest over alleged flesh trade at a Pullepady lodge on Friday night. The suicide bid came even as protest brewed in social media against the police action. 

 Police said that a case was registered as per procedure and the person had tried to cut the vein inside the washroom.
 
 "The attempt was made after transgender person was arrested for flesh trade. We took the person to a hospital and gave medical aid. Even first aid was provided before going to the hospital. A case was also lodged," said A Ananthalal, central circle inspector.
 
 The person identified as Saya alias   was booked under the relevant sections of the IPC.
 
 Even as the police slapped sections including the Arms Act and the IT Act against the arrested on Friday night's raid, transgender activists said that community members were forced to use such lodges as they were turned away from all other places.
 
 Even as activists agreed that the lodge in question being used for illegal purposes they said that the some of the community members arrested were even   workers who were unnecessarily dragged into the issue.
 
 "Adithi and Daya arrested by the police were Metro workers. A 20-year-old woman arrested by the police was actually the sister of Kavya, a transgender who was also arrested. I don't think the members of the community would bring their sisters into prostitution. This itself proves the witch-hunt carried out by police during their crackdown against flesh trade," said Navas, coordinator of Marvel, an association for the welfare of the community.
 
 He added that it is true that immoral activities happen in that lodge. "There is all likelihood of such activities happening at the lodge. But transgender persons are able to get rooms at such lodges only. The fact that there is no safe residences available in the city for community members should never be forgotten," he said . 
 
 Activists say that the move was part of a tactic used by the police to force transgenders out of the city. "Cops have been visiting several lodges and threatening employees there to throw out transgenders who are staying there paying a rent of around Rs400 per day," said a transgender person on condition of anonymity. Police in the raid had arrested a man running the racket along with five women, four transgenders, three customers and the lodge manager. Police had said that the sex racket was being run with the support of the lodge manager and the accused even had a gun kept at the building to threaten customers.
 
 
