KOCHI/T'PURAM: A meeting of hospital management associations held in Kochi on Thursday has decided not to pay the minimum wages fixed by the government for nurses and other hospital staff. The meeting convened by Kerala Private Hospitals' Association ( ) has also decided to move court if the nurses' associations take the course of strike. 

 
  
  
 
 The management associations also decided to send a letter to the state government informing that it won't be possible for them to pay nurses and other staff as per the notification due to financial constraints, said KPHA president Dr P K Mohammed Rasheed.
 
 The meeting was attended by leaders of other associations like Hospitals Board of India, Catholic Hospitals Association of India, Association of Health Providers of India and   and representatives of some of the hospital managements like Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi and Lakeshore Hospital, Kochi.
 
 "The minimum wages announced by the government has not been fixed by any bodies like the minimum wages committee," said Rasheed.
 
 He also criticised the government for fixing "high minimum wages" for hospital staff, like drivers. Drivers working in other sectors would get Rs 9,000 whereas those working with hospitals should be paid Rs 18,000, he said.
 
 Interestingly, if the hospitals had agreed to pay the wages fixed by the government, the doctors would have been paid less than the nurses in some cases.
 
 The stipend paid by private medical colleges to house surgeons and postgraduates is much lesser than the wages of nurses as specified in the government notification.
 
 If the basic pay of nurses in a hospital with up to 100 beds will become Rs 20,000, the same hospital will have a house surgeon receiving a stipend of Rs 4,500.
 
 Though the Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) had directed all private medical college managements to pay the house surgeons a stipend on par with those in government medical colleges, none of the managements have accepted the proposal.
 
 In government medical colleges, the house surgeons are paid a stipend of Rs 20,000 and post graduates Rs 42,000.
 
 "It is a serious issue and we had highlighted the issue several times to the state government and the university," said Dr U R Rahul, state president of the  .
 
 "The   strongly feels that house surgeons should be paid Rs 30,000 and medical PGs, Rs 60,000 as stipend. They are the backbone of the hospitals," said IMA state secretary Dr N Sulphi.
 
 
