TIRUVUR : Members of Tamil Nadu   Family Association have expressed grave concern at the conduct of Union minister for water resources Nitin Gadkari and Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah over the issue of constituting the Cauvery Management Board (CMB).

 At a meeting held at Mannargudi in   on Tuesday, the members said that ignoring the Supreme Court verdict on the constitution of the board could amount to contempt of court. While the Union minister was non-committal on constituting CMB within the stipulated six weeks, the Karnataka chief minister had rejected the idea outright, they stated.
 
 The members insisted that the CMB should be constituted within six weeks and the scheduled release of water strictly also followed as indicated in the tribunal and upheld by the Supreme Court in its verdict. They reiterated their full support to the state government if it proceeded to take any legal action in the event of the SC verdict not being implemented in its full spirit. Having taken to the legal recourse, it was now inevitable for the state to go the full distance and look forward to the legal eventuality, the members said.
 
 Convener of the Cauvery Family and president of South Asia Consortium for Inter-Disciplinary Water Resources Studies, Hyderabad, Professor S Janakarajan, hinted at what could be the future course of action, legal and otherwise.
 
 It was decided to watch the developments in the next six weeks closely and take up an intensive campaign to educate and spread awareness among farmers in all delta villages with regard to the implications of the SC verdict. It was also decided to emphasise on the need for spreading the news “Save Delta and Save Cauvery Campaign” and take it up as a mass movement without attaching any political colours to it. The need for a better water management strategy in the delta, for protecting the deltaic and coastal ecosystems and to save the rivers from pollution and sand mining were also emphasised.
 
 Secretary of the Cauvery delta farmers’ welfare association S Ranganathan headed the meeting. Coordinator, Tamil Nadu All Farmers Federation PR Pandian, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader V Jeevakumar, Cauvery Family adviser and environmental activist V Ganapathy, Consortium of Indian Farmers’ Associations V Sathyanarayanan, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association K V Kannan and Tamil Nadu Science Forum V Sethuraman participated in the meeting.
 
 
