SURAT:  ,   in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub have heaved a sigh of relief with the Goods and Service ( )   extending the e-Way bill limit from 10 km to 50 km and the reserve charge mechanism (RCM) till June 30. 

 Sources said the GST Council decided to roll out the requirement of carrying an electronically generated bill for transporting goods between states from April 1, but failed to reach any consensus on the simplification of tax returning filing procedure for businesses. 
 
 In a decision, the council has extended the current system for online filing of GST returns for three more months, where tax payers shall continue filing of form GSTR 3B and GSTR-1 for a period till June 2018. The group of ministers on information technology (IT) have been asked to look into the process and system of filing after consultation of experts for better user experience for taxpayers and stakeholders. 
 
 Talking to TOI, president of Pandesara Weavers’ Association Ashish Gujarati said, “The GST Council has taken decision to extend the e-way bill limit from 10 km to 50 km, which is a good thing for the industry. But, we still expected simplification formula for the GST return filing by the council, which did not happen. We are still awaiting the decision on the input tax credit on the accumulated credit.”
 
 Gujarati added, “The reverse charge mechanism has been postponed till June 30, which will benefit the industry. It is just a temporary relief and that the national textile industry associations are seeking to abolish the RCM system.”
 
 The e-way bill, which would be required to be presented to a GST inspector if asked for, is being touted as an anti-evasion measure and would help boost tax collections by clamping down on trade that currently happens on cash basis.
 
 With e-way bill roll out from April 1, transporters of goods worth over Rs 50,000 will have to generate an e-way bill.
 
 President of Federation of Surat Textile Traders’ Association (FOSTTA) Manoj Agarwal said, “The roll out of e-way bill from April 1 is a welcome step. But, the GST Council should ensure that the state e-way bill norms should align with the national e-way bill requirement. There should be only one e-way bill so that the transporters and textile traders would not face any problems when their goods are in transit in other state.”
 
 
