MYSURU: The   given by the   given by the BJP demanding a   for farmers, evoked a mixed response in South Karnataka. A total failure in Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts, the   evoked a lukewarm response in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga.

 In Mysuru, attempts by BJP leaders and workers to stop buses from plying were thwarted by cops, who detained newly-elected MLAs L Nagendra and SA Ramadas, along with MP Pratap Simha, who staged a dharna at the City Bus station. The effect on schools and commercial establishments was nil. Schools reopened without any trouble on Monday, while JD(S) workers presented flowers to those who opened their stores in a few parts of the city.
 
 In Hassan, BJP workers managed to ensure that commercial establishments did not open early in the morning. However, traffic movement was not disrupted, and schools, colleges and banks remained open. BJP workers held a massive rally in Sakleshpur, although it did not impact normal life. However, JD(S) bastions such as Beluru, Arasikere and Holenarasipura witnessed no protests or rallies.
 
 In what made for a perfect study of contrast, the bandh was a total failure in Chamarajanagar city but the response in Gundlupet town was encouraging till afternoon on Monday. BJP workers carried out a protest march in Kollegal and Hanur demanding immediate implementation of the loan waiver scheme.
 
 In Shivamogga, BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa’s base, the band evoked a mixed response. While normal life proceeded without a hitch in Shivamogga city, the response was mixed in towns such as Sagara, Soraba and Thirthahalli. Police refused permission to BJP activists, who were planning to take out a bike rally in Shivamogga city. Senior BJP leader KS Eshwarappa said that the party had managed to draw attention to farmers’ woes by calling for a bandh.
 
 In Mandya, where the BJP had expected a good response to the bandh, considering the largely agrarian population, public extended no support. BJP activists staged protests in various parts of the district, and around 40 of them were detained in Mandya city. Police thwarted attempts by BJP workers to force shopowners to down their shutters.
 
 Tension prevailed briefly in Pandavapura, when BJP workers tried to force shopowners to close their establishments near a prayer hall. However, police intervened and managed to ensure the situation was resolved peacefully.
 
 Response to the bandh was mixed in Chikkamagaluru. Hundreds of BJP activists who tried to prevent buses from plying in Chikkamagaluru city were detained by cops. Many traders alleged that BJP workers tried to force them to down their shutters. Attendance in colleges and schools was thin.
 
 
