MUMBAI: Eyebrows are being raised over the appointment of a retired bureaucrat to head a high-level committee that will draft a memorandum for submission it to the   headed by former planning commission member N K Singh. 

 On Tuesday, the finance department, led by senior   leader  , issued an order to provide for the appointment of retired additional chief secretary (finance)   as chairman of the high-level committee. An IAS officer of the 1985 batch Giriraj had retired in October 2017. Currently, the finance department is led by additional chief secretary D K Jain and there are three secretaries in charge of reforms, expenditure and accounts and treasuries. Serving and retired bureaucrats felt that when the department already has four senior bureaucrats, there was no need to appoint a retired bureaucrat. 
 
 “On one hand, we are drafting a new policy to reduce the cost of establishment, but on the other, we are appointing retired bureaucrats on the committee,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. “I feel it should be possible for the existing bureaucrats in the finance department to draft the memorandum and avoid the expenditure on a retired bureaucrat,” he said. Incidentally, the most crucial government resolution on reducing employee strength by 30% in a time-bound period was signed by Giriraj on June 29, 2017. But another senior bureaucrat felt since the expenditure and reforms section was dealt by Giriraj in the recent past, he was the most appropriate officer to head the panel. 
 
 Besides Giriraj, the additional chief secretary (reforms); secretaries of the departments of planning, urban development and rural development; sales tax commissioner; and   economics department head Abhay Pethe are members of the high-level committee. As per the appointment order, Giriraj will receive one time honorarium of Rs 1.5 lakh, while a non-official member on the panel will receive Rs 1 lakh. In addition, the panel members will be entitled for daily allowance and transport allowance, in accordance to government rules. 
 
 The committee has been asked to submit the memorandum within four months. Mungantiwar and chief secretary   did not respond to texts from TOI on Giriraj’s appointment, while Jain replied, “The chief secretary will forward our response.”
