KOLKATA: At least one   that is scheduled to screen ‘Padmaavat’ — of the approximately 30 in the city where the controversial film is to be screened — has sought  , thinking about its patrons’ safety, even as stray protests began against the film in Purulia on Monday.

 “I have spoken to Jadavpur police station,” said Navin Chokhani of Navina cinema. “There will be a police posting in front of the theatre from Friday.” Navina will screen four shows of the movie. “We have received intimation from the cinema management,” confirmed an officer from the police station. “There will be adequate police posting at Navina hall.” A senior officer said they were keeping a strict watch on the law and order situation, and that protesters will not be allowed to stop any movie screening forcibly. “They can protest peacefully,” said an officer.
 
 Others haven’t asked for protection, but are adopting a wait-and-watch approach. Arijit Dutta, the owner of Priya, is negotiating with SVF, which is releasing the movie. “Twice, there was police protection in front of my theatre,” said Priya owner Arijit Dutta. “Effigies were burnt when Kamal Haasan’s ‘Hey Ram’ was released. There were bigger protests when I screened Mani Ratnam’s ‘Roja’. On both occasions, the Left Front government had asked for cop protection. I’ll screen ‘Padmaavat’ if we can arrive at a resolution with the exhibitor. But I won’t ask for police protection.”
 
 Inox Leisure Limited, which will screen 100 shows a day across their nine properties in Kolkata, however, doesn’t anticipate any protests. Subhasish Ganguly, regional director (east) INOX, said no INOX property has ever required police protection for a film screening. “We haven’t asked for police protection for ‘Padmaavat’, but are keeping an eye on the situation,” he said.
 
 An SVF spokesperson said the movie will release at approximately 130 theatres across Bengal.
 
 Protests have already begun in Purulia on Sunday. Suraj Sharma, the district president of  , said: “We sent a letter to SVF asking them not to release the film in Purulia. We don’t support violence but if SVF doesn’t listen, we will ask viewers to boycott the film.” In Kolkata, Rajesh Singh, the president of Bharat Kshatriya Samaj, isn’t happy at the film’s release, and said he will soon decide on the method and degree of protest. Shankar Baksh Singh, general secretary of the Bengal-based Akhil Bhartiya Kshatriya Samaj, plans to boycott the film and engage in “peaceful protests”. “No one is above the Supreme Court. But it’s surprising that while lakhs of cases are pending at SC, the judgment on this film was delivered in a day. Something is just not right,” he said.
 
 Sachindranath Singha, secretary of Vishva Hindu Parishad’s Kolkata Kshetra, had organised a protest in front of Navina cinema on November 19. He, however, is yet to receive any instruction on protests from his central committee. “If we receive any intimation, we will implement it,” Singha said.
 
 
