Beauty is big business – it drives iconic brands and seduces women and men into the world of grooming. But beauty should be more than a quickie CTM (cleansing-toning-moisturising) or a pick-me-up lip colour for a Monday. This is why the concept of ‘slow beauty’ is taking root. 

 
 It is about mindfulness and self-love. When you care for yourself, it is more beautiful, special and gratifying than buying a high-end contouring kit. We dab on some lipstick and rush through the day without realising that we are missing out on the nuanced textures of life. Slow   can make us feel and look great inside out. It is part of the growing slow living lifestyle, which means living deeply and meaningfully. In the context of beauty, a lot of it is DIY, which basically means returning to our roots — to yore and folkore — when women bonded with each other over a session of haldi-chandan ubtan. It’s possible even now. 
 
 
 
 Slow beauty life involves making  . It’s the process of creation combined with self-healing. Here are some doable ideas.
 
 
 
 Taking care of face and neck is de rigueur. But what about your feet that take you places and bear your weight? Show them some love, too. This is a before-hitting-the-sheets ritual, so make sure you go for soothing scents like lavender and geranium that promote restful sleep. Now, prepare a foot soak bowl filled with warm water. Add few drops of lavender essential oil to the water and dip your feet in it. You can listen to sounds of nature (raindrop on tent, sea waves, crickets chirping in the forest – found on nature sound apps) while your feet are soaking up the goodness of oils. After 10 minutes, pat dry your feet with a soft towel and apply a rich foot balm. Finish off by spritzing a fragrant mist made with lavender or jasmine (natural and organic) over your pillow. Soon, you will lull into relaxed sleep and wake up energised and uplifted in the morning. 
 Isn’t it what we need? So, embrace slow beauty and see it enrich your life and increase the glow on your face. 
 Inputs by Dr Kiran Lohia, Delhi-based dermatologist
 
 
 
 If it was good for Cleopatra, it’s good for you! Slowly pick rose petals from fresh roses, taking time to smell the roses too. Gently mix the petals in a cup of creamy (not low-fat) milk and crumble some brown sugar crystals into it. Rub this aromatic blend on the body in round circular motions for 10 minutes. Do not rush. Then soak in a bath with sea salt and rose essential oils. Relax. Let the water calm your body and mind. You’ll emerge fresh, clean and beautiful. Do it once in 15 days or when you find time.
 
 By: Pallavi Shankar
 
