MUMBAI: News of the BMC proposing action against the architect and the interior designer of Mojo’s Bistro and 1Above has upset the professional community. Last week, municipal commissioner   in his report to the chief minister suggested fixing   on the architect and the interior architect (interior designer) for “misusing” the government’s Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) policy in clearing the layouts of the rooftop restobars at   and violating fire safety rules.

 The architect in question is B R Gandhi and the interior designer Sumesh Menon. Gandhi was assigned the work to change office premises into two resto-bars. He was hired for the work by a Kamala Mills Compound official, Ravi Bhandari, who was arrested in the case on Friday.
 
 Senior architect   of the Practising Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association (PEATA) said on Sunday, “If an architect has done something wrong, he has to face action. But most architects who design plans land in trouble for no fault of theirs. An architect submits a signed plan according to rules to the BMC to get required permissions. After this, the businessman or builder appoints an interior architect who often makes all kinds of illegal changes to the approved plan. An interior architect doesn’t need to sign any legal document. If something goes wrong, it is the architect who lands in trouble.”
 
 Under the Ease of Doing Business policy, the BMC allows owners to self-certify work through architects and relies on such certificates to grant business licences without civic officials examining the premises. Only fire officers check such premises before issuing a fire-safety NOC.
 
 IPS officer-turned-lawyer Y P Singh said, “The consulting architect who submits a plan to the BMC can be held criminally liable, along with BMC officers who approve the plan. But an interior architect cannot be held criminally liable. At most, they can be held accountable for civil liability. No law prohibits the use of inflammable material on premises.”
 
 In the resto-bar case, as per the BMC’s report, in his submitted plan, Gandhi showed the terrace area as open. Menon, who design the interiors of 1Above, on his website mentioned the resto-bar’s launch as January 2017 and that he had completed work on 8,000 sq m—work the BMC calls illegal. The report says Menon mentioned the passage constructed on the terrace, which was found to be too narrow for people to escape in an emergency. The BMC chief had called Menon for his statement, but he didn’t turn up.
 
 In his statement to Mehta, Gandhi said the architect for the redesign was someone else and Gandhi’s role was to only scrutinize the plans given to him and forward them to the BMC.
 
 
