MUMBAI:   officials have stumbled upon a   involving doctors manning the 108 ambulances and a   in  , in perhaps the first instance of wrongdoing since the free service started four years ago. It has come to light that a few doctors of that zone ferried 10-12 patients to a private hospital by allege-dly misleading them that services and specialists at the state-run hospital were inferior.

 108 ambulances have an ayurveda graduate on board, who after examining and treating the patient on the spot, decides on the next course of action. The mandate of the service is that a patient should be dropped to the nearest government hospital or be taken to a private hospital after he/she has given a written consent.
 
 Dr Satish Pawar, who heads the  , confirmed to TOI that a preliminary   has been carried out in the matter. The doctors allegedly tried to defend themselves by saying the patients chose to go to the private hospital. “Once it was brought to our notice, we sent our own officials to speak to those patients. They said the doctors advised them against going to the nearby government hospital and directed them to the private one,” he said. He added that it will be investigated whether any commission was involved.
 
 Dr Pawar said certain government doctors from other regions of the state have come under scanner for referring patients unnecessarily. “Just because an ambulance service is available, they are not treating the patient and simply referring him to a higher centre. In one such instance, a pregnant woman from Raigad was referred to Mumbai, a distance of more than 100km, for delivery” Pawar said. “We have now decided that permission would be required from the civil surgeon, even if verbal, to transport a patient anywhere outside the district.” These incidents have prompted the state to begin an audit of the referrals. “We have undertaken a pilot project in Chandrapur and Sindhudurg, where an expert panel will analyze the referrals,” he said.
 
 Dr Dhyaneshwar Shelke, COO of Bharat Vikas Group that operates the service, said they have a strict policy against any patient being taken to a private hospital against their will and anyone demanding money in lieu of the service. “People are suspended and even terminated,” he said, adding that a patient is dropped to a private hospital only if he wishes to and there is a written consent from the patient or a relative.
 
 
