MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday allowed a woman over 27 weeks pregnant with a malformed foetus to undergo an  . In a landmark judgment, the HC held that any substantial risk of serious physical handicap in the foetus has to be considered along with trauma caused to the woman, while permitting termination beyond 20 weeks.

 A bench of Justices R M Borde and   significantly directed the woman to undergo abortion at a hospital of her choice. Usually courts have sent women to civic- or government-run hospital. The woman, a 37-year-old housewife, had approached the HC after the foetus was detected with multiple congenital abnormalities including a missing abdomen in the seventh month, and the law bars termination for pregnancies that have crossed 20 weeks’ gestation.
 
 The HC had asked the woman’s lawyer   to demonstrate if there was any threat to the mother’s life and she had responded by saying that mental trauma must be considered as part of risk to her health and life. The bench appeared to agree with her as it referred to past pronouncements on women’s right to bodily integrity and applying principle of purposive interpretation of law, held that foetal malformations, their severity and the effect on women’s mental and physical health must be read into Section 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act that governs reproductive procedures in the country and lays down restrictions.   5 carves out exception in cases where continuation of pregnancies pose a grave risk to the life of the woman and doctors’ certify ‘in good faith’ that only a termination can save her life.
 
 The HC relied on a JJ hospital report that said the foetus was at a high risk of morbidity with abdomen, heart and brain anomalies. “The condition of the foetus fulfils criteria of substantial risk of serious physical handicap and the pregnant woman is extremely anguished with the condition. ... The pregnancy advanced to 27 weeks but risk of termination remains the same as that of natural labour at full term,” the report had said, adding, “If court permits, the pregnancy can be terminated.”
 
  
 The order comes as a boon to women whose gynaecologists are in a position to find out serious congenital defects in a foetus conclusively only after 20 weeks of gestation. The law prevents them from having an abortion as the upper limit is 20 weeks or up to five months of a pregnancy. But under Section 3, between 12 and 20 weeks, the termination can be done if doctors certify that continuation of the pregnancy would involve a risk to the life of the pregnant woman or of grave physical or mental injury to her, and also if there is substantial risk of serious physical or mental abnormalities in the foetus that would leave it severely handicapped after birth.
 
 The law and cut-off is under judicial scrutiny before the Supreme Court where Mumbai advocate Amit Karkhanis and gynaecologist Dr   have stressed the need to extend the deadline in keeping with women’s right to life with dignity and bodily integrity. 
 
 
