Nagpur: The two paper leaks have opened a can of worms but papers have leaked many times in the past too. The revelation was made by Kanika Malu, a parent. “But this has to stop. Though the quality of education is good, the board should maintain the high standards it is known for,” she said.

 Akshat Handa, a Std XII humanities student who is against re-exam, too stated that paper leaks have been happening repeatedly. “There has been no check on it in absence of any deterrent law,” he felt. “Earlier, paper leaks would happen only in the state board.   at least did not deny the papers were leaked,” said another parent Shilpi Mahendru.
 
 Harshawardhan Dhanwatey, one of the parents who had fought against refusal of state board colleges to admit CBSE students passing out of Std X in 2011, pointed out that earlier there was system in the CBSE and the board was respected. “Decisions like re-exam are knee-jerk reactions to criticism. This indicates something is grossly wrong with the system,” he said.
 
 Manjot Singh Kahai, parent who led the fight for CBSE students seven years ago over the admission issue, claimed the leaked papers were circulating on WhatsApp. “And what is CBSE doing? It’s just passing the buck even as students are suffering. It’s a bureaucratic lapse,” he said.
 
 “Why did the board keep the same question paper for all regions this year,” said Kanika.
 
 Referring to the mental agony CBSE students had been through during the deadlock over admission in state board colleges, Dhanwatey said in such situations they tended to lose their confidence and rebooting could be the best way out.
 
 Amit Anand, a parent who led parents over demand to scrap the re-exam, said, “Students who knew about the leak should have immediately informed the concerned authorities and also their parents. There was a lot of confusion even among parents over what action should be taken.”
 
 Jay Kabra, a Std XII student protesting against re-exam, claimed that there were also reports of the Accounts paper having been leaked but no action was taken.
 
 Dhanwatey was all praise for the promptness showed by CBSE management in the past but added the board had failed to evolve. “Now, they have adopted a wait and watch policy while the wings of schools have been clipped,” said Manjot.
 
 In such situations, the schools should stand with the students, said Anand. On this, Kanika said schools should act as a medium between students and the board. “But that doesn’t seem to be happening,” she said.
 
 Stating that the schools restricted the role of parents, most of panellists felt that the parent members of parents-teachers association were also chosen in a way to avoid confrontations, and nobody supported the students. According to Kanika, many parents are too subdued to speak up. “Those empowered should become the voice for others,” she said. 
 
 “The only way to get the attention of CBSE or correct its action is to approach the court of law,” said Anand.
 
 The panellists also objected to political interference in the board’s decision-making process. Dhanwatey said earlier politicians would not involve themselves as only the CBSE chairman took decisions.
 
 Shilpi stated there should be no room for politics in education. “The central board should be allowed to take its own decisions firmly,” she said. “But now it’s the HRD ministry that takes random decisions regarding the board,” said Kanika.
 
 Jay questioned why at all politicians were reacting or getting involved in matters of education. “It’s not a Congress or BJP board. We are studying in CBSE board,” he said. Akshat added that even students notice how political ideologies influence textbook content. 
 
 Talking about the education pattern that “lays emphasis only on scoring good marks”, Jay wanted to know why students were being taught subjects that neither interest them nor hold any relevance when it came to their career choices.
 
 Panellists were also critical of the coaching class culture as some of the classes had been accused of leaking papers to ensure good scores for their students. “Parents are scared if their children don’t join coaching for NEET, JEE, they may either lag behind or not make the cut,” said Anand.
 
 Meenu Dhamani, a parent, said it was the job of the school to make students efficient in studies. “There should be no need for any coaching,” she said.
 
 Shilpi said, “Had the schools been competent, there would be no need for coaching. Attending a coaching class has become a status symbol.” Supporting her, Kanika said the schools lacked quality teachers.
 
 
