GUWAHATI:   has given a new spin to its offer of trips to   for the Christian-majority state of Nagaland, promising to take 50 senior citizens chosen by drawing lots to the Holy Land annually. 

  In its manifesto, which was released by defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman at Dimapur on Friday, has promised to "Set up senior citizen board who will annually select around 50 members through lucky draw for a free trip to Holy Land of Jerusalem." 
 
  Amid apprehensions expressed by the church over spread of Hindutva in the Christian-majority state, BJP stated in its manifesto that the party is for an all-inclusive development and promised to protect all minority communities in the state, which include mostly Hindus and Muslims. Christians comprise about 88% of Nagaland's population. 
 
  "The Jerusalem trip offer is not a standalone offer too woo voters but part of a bigger package for senior citizens," Nagaland BJP president Visasolie Lhoungu told TOI. "We highly value the contribution of senior citizens to the welfare of the society. We believe in taking care of the aged. Several measures such as Rashtriya Vayoshri Yojana for elderly citizens have been implemented nationwide. More such initiatives will be undertaken," Lhoungu read out from the manifesto. 
 
  The promises for senior citizens include hiking of old age pension scheme amount, free medical facilities in government hospitals, old age homes, employment opportunities as part-time salaried volunteers to engage in contributing to society by assisting in implementing the government schemes. 
 
  and free passes in government transportation for all senior citizens.
 
 The party's state general secretary Eduzu Theluo added, "The promise of the trip to Jerusalem was made after considering suggestions we received from the people." When asked if the offer of a free trip to Jerusalem would win votes for BJP, Theluo said, "Our manifesto clearly says that our priorities are development of the state and an early solution to the Naga political issue."
 
 The manifesto states, "The party shall always strive to unite the society and take the state forward on the principle of 'Together with All, Development for All'. The party follows an all-inclusive policy for a cohesive nation with equal respect to all religions and emphasis will be given for protection of all minorities." BJP has also promised to "strictly regulate illegal foreign migrants" into the state.
 
 On the Naga peace process, which is the centre of all the battle for Kohima among parties, BJP has has noted in its manifesto that successive BJP governments at the centre have been ceaselessly putting all efforts to find an amicable and lasting solution to the vexed problem ever since former PM Atal Behari Vajpayee described it as 'unique' in 2003.
 
 "The Bharatiya Janata Party supports the early and lasting settlement of Naga Political Issue in full cognizance and respect of the Nagas' popular sentiment in the on-going peace process with the trust that the Nagas' popular government will implement all the solutions as arrived at in this respect," the manifesto promises.
 
 
