Pics: Shashank Sane. 

 
 
  Equality has always formed a key part of the message of Republic Day, and the same holds true with art. With the belief that art should not just be restricted to ‘elite’ art galleries and the audiences they cater too, over 25 city artists gathered at the   on Friday to celebrate art, but more importantly, to bring it into public view. That was what defined the third 
 
  edition of Art Mandai. The public marketplace that usually houses fruit and vegetable vendors, played host to artists who displayed their artworks alongside.
 
   , an artist herself, conceived that idea of the ‘movement’ where art could seemlessly meld with the lives of common people. “This year, the theme of the festival was to have artwork revolving around objects commonly seen in the vicinity of the marketplace. Artists had to use their imagination and interpret Mandai’s surroundings. They ended up bringing in artworks that could be afforded by the common man as well,” says Gauri. 
 
  The day saw the busy aisles of Mandai transforming into spaces that the artists took over. They displayed their creativity through artwork made from disposable dishes, stones, rags, voodoo dolls and more. Adding to the ethos of the place was a host live acts that also saw the marketplace transform into a performance space.To enhance the mood of the day, musicians performed on their instruments. Hrishikesh Pawar, a choreographer who performed at the event, said, “I have always taken my art to public spaces, and an opportunity to do so to a place like Mandai was a great experience. No one generally expects something like dance to take place here. The limited space made us aware of how much the city is growing.” People between the ages 12 and 70 participated in the day’s proceedings. “The event gave people an opportunity to dance their hearts out, that too in a public space. Nothing can be more liberating that that!” added Hrishikesh.
 
  The artworks on display made for a visual treat. For example, artist Dhanashri Deshmukh’s stall had on display paintings that had been done on gunny bags. It was interesting to note how regular, everyday items could double up as canvases. “Such an event at a place like Mandai attracts visitors of all kinds. It also encourages us to do better.”
 
  But it wasn’t just artists who witnessed the results of art being brought to a public space; many visitors shared their experiences as well, quite content with how the initiative brought them in closer touch with the artists. Pradyun Pokish, a working professional who 
 
  attended the event, said, “It was very interesting to see the artist community sharing the space with fruit and vegetable vendors and selling their work alongside. The music and dance just added to the spirit of the initiative.” Furthermore, Radhika K, another visitor at the festival, also felt that such initiatives bring people to the old city and help them explore its heritage.
 
 
 
  Amidst all the fun and frolic, there were a number of stalls that were dedicated to raising awareness. One stall displayed a number of framed posters that spoke about road safety and the importance of using a helmet. The artworks at another one spread the message on the dire need to save the city’s dwindling sparrow population. Artist Kashmira Shreeram, who put out this message through her work, shared, “Looking at the declining population of sparrows, we installed ceramic bird feeders and whistles. It was out way of telling people that it is high time we saved the sparrows.”
 
 
 
 
  The artwork at the festival ranged from vibrantly-decorated spectacles, decorated kites, sketches on disposable paper plates, different takes on voodoo dolls and ceramic articles, to a huge installation of a comb by artist Vrushaket that adorned the space.
 
  
 We often notice that people are reluctant to visit galleries, maybe because such spaces are often perceived to be inaccessible to all. The notion that art is only for the elite holds many back from engaging with it. A concept like this helps bridge that gap.
 —
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
