KOLHAPUR : Petrol prices in the city increased to Rs 80.06 a litre and diesel rose to Rs 66.04 a litre on Sunday.

 In case of petrol, price is increasing every day for the last three weeks and diesel prices continue to rise every day over the past two weeks. Since January 1, petrol price increased by Rs 2.09 per litre, while diesel price increased by Rs 3.2 a litre.
 
 Experts claim the increase in both petrol and diesel prices if analysed for any three-week period since the daily price change came into effect from August 1, 2017, the price increase in the first three weeks of the new year is the highest. They also said the rise will affect the inflation in the coming days. Petrol and diesel prices constitute 20% of the total composition of the inflation index.
 
 V B Kakade, a city-based economist, said, “The rise in the fuel price causes a spiralling effect on the rates of various other items. Basically, transport cost also increase. Though daily change in prices can be justified to bring down the deficit faced by the state, it has an adverse effect on the common people with respect to inflation. The prices of the commodities will increase owing to the increase in transport costs.”
 
  
 The petrol price crossed the Rs 80-a-litre mark at the end of September last year that added to inflation. Owing to the decline in the production of grains, pulses and most of the daily farm commodities, inflation was already high.
 
 Experts claim that now the situation as far as the supply of the commodities is normal and in such a situation, the increase in the fuel prices will definitely lead to hike in the prices of the commodities transported in bulk. Experts expect that to avoid frequent fluctuations in prices, the Centre should bring petrol and diesel into the ambit of goods and services tax (GST).
 
 Sadanand Korgaonkar, of Kolhapur Merchants Association said, “Last year, when the prices touched Rs 80 a litre, the state government was forced to reduce the value added tax (VAT) which brought the prices to Rs 75 a litre. The total taxes on the petrol go beyond 35%, but if it is brought under GST, then the prices will suddenly come down by around 7%.”
 
 
