NAGPUR: Central India’s first dedicated paediatric   (treating children with cancer) was launched at the   (NCI) near Jamtha on Wednesday. The institute, established by Aabaji Thatte Seva Aur Anusandhan Trust, also dedicated bone marrow transplant (BMT) facility to the patients.

 “NCI has decided that no paediatric patient would be sent back for want of money. Though there are various schemes to help poor patient afford the treatment, yet there are certain patients who cannot afford the treatment. NCI is ensuring that these patients also get the required treatment. Arranging free treatment for every child coming to us will be the Trust’s responsibility,” said Shailesh Joglekar, secretary of the Trust, after the launch of the facilities.
 
 “The institute started this facility specifically as almost 70-80% of the paediatric cancers are treatable. Almost 5% of all cancers are paediatric cancers. But paediatric oncology requires a specialized team beginning from paediatric physicians to surgeons and nurses etc. This department is going to change the treatment of   in children for not just Nagpur and Vidarbha but all neighbouring states,” said Dr Anand Pathak, director of NCI.
 
 Dr Pathak said that BMT increases the cure rate and is very useful in dealing with patients with recurrence of the disease. Generally, relapse in children occurs within first two years of completion of treatment. If cancer does not relapse even after the gap of 2 years after treatment, the children are considered to be cured.
 
 Dr Purna Kurkure, former Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) paediatric oncology head who inaugurated the facility, said there are mainly two types of cancers in children — liquid tumours like leukaemia or lymphomas and cancers which are tissue specific unlike adults where they are organ specific. Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia or blood cancer is the commonest cancer. It takes about two-and-a-half to three years for treatment but the cure rate is as high as 70-80%.
 
 Dr Shripad Banavali, professor and head medical and paediatric oncology at TMC, who too was present for the launch of the new facilities, said most adult cancers are preventable but cancers in children are not preventable yet they are definitely treatable. Treating physicians need to be alert and knowledgeable about the symptoms. Also, such patients need to be followed up for a long time to ensure nonoccurrence of the disease. “However, it is sad that majority of the children don’t even reach the doctor. This is due to lack of symptoms. Fever is the only major symptom and hence the disease remains undetected unless the paediatrician is very alert,” said Dr Banavali.
 
 Facilities launched at NCI
 
 Paediatric oncology — it is the only dedicated children-related cancer facility in   so far
 
 The Bone Marrow Transplant is used for stem cell treatment of patients. BMT is the final solution for blood-related cancers
 
 To begin with autologous (patients on blood forming stem cells are used) transplants will be done and gradually even heterologous (transplant from cells of other person) transplants will be done
 
 
