NEW DELHI: Having failed to find anything to corroborate that the Pune girl with a history of orientation towards   had landed in Jammu & Kashmir for a suicide attack — a suspicion that led the local police to detain her in Srinagar — the J&K police is now contemplating releasing her without pressing any charges. Sources in the Central security establishment indicated that the girl could be handed over to her parents and put under the care of a local Pune   that would counsel her on a sustained basis to wean her off the influence of online radical elements and groups she continues to be in touch with.

 When contacted, additional DG of J&K Police   confirmed that the parents of the girl as well as Maharashtra Police officials were in Srinagar and that some facts were being checked. However, he was non-committal when asked if J&K police would be releasing the girl.
 
 Sources in the intelligence agencies told TOI that the girl was in touch with a Kashmiri man on the social media and may have travelled to J&K with marriage on her mind. There is some suspicion that the girl, who had been in touch with online recruiters and radical elements despite being counselled for deradicalisation in 2015, may have wanted to explore J&K as a launchpad for further migration to IS territory.
 
 “The girl was constantly being tracked by the agencies as she had been following radical propaganda and also met some radical elements in Pune. That is why when she decided to go to J&K, that too just ahead of Republic Day, it came to adverse notice of the surveillance agencies and she was detained by J&K police. However, to say that she was planning a suicide attack in J&K is far-fetched,” said a senior officer. 
 
 “So the option now is between arresting her and letting her go while ensuring her continued monitoring and at the same time, sustained counselling through a trusted NGO. Since the girl is still very young, there is a view that further effort can be made to wean her through counselling and diverting her mind to another hobby, interest or vocation. Her parents will be counselled to ensure success of these efforts,” said an officer.
 
 While Central agencies have already given the girl an all-clear, the final decision on her release has been left to J&K police. 
 
 The girl had come under radar of the intelligence agencies in 2015 after online surveillance showed her to be in touch with online Islamic State recruiters. “The girl then had a romanticised view of IS and wanted to join the outfit by travelling to Syria. Her parents were alerted and her ‘deradicalisation’ counselling done. However, as is usually done in such cases, we continued to rule out any remaining traces of radicalisation. During the continued surveillance, she was again found to be interacting with online radicalisers. Her trip to J&K just ahead of Republic Day was enough to alarm the J&K police which, not wanting to take any chances, detained her,” said an official.
 
