NEW DELHI: The three Aam Aadmi Party nominees – party functionary Sanjay Singh, businessman Sushil Gupta and chartered accountant ND Gupta – filed their nominations on Thursday at the office of deputy commissioner, central district, in Daryaganj for the three   seats that will fall vacant later this month. Among the proposers of the three candidates were Somnath Bharti, Jarnail Singh, Prakash Jarwal and Naresh Yadav.

 Singh arrived for filing his nomination after an hour-long road show that began from the party office in the afternoon. Singh was in a decorated mini-truck that followed a group of supporters — with music playing — through busy roads. As Singh smiled, with party colleague Ashutosh by his side, the garlands which decorated the truck barely concealed the line — “Naseeb apna, apna” (Each man to his fate) — painted in bold in front of the truck. His supporters shouted ‘Sanjay Singh jindabad’ and danced to the tune of patriotic songs. 
 
 In-charge of party’s UP and Bihar units, Sanjay Singh has been with the party since its inception. A mechanical engineer, Singh has been active in social work for more than two decades. He came in touch with   during the RTI movement and grew close to him during the the anti-corruption movement. He was in-charge of the party’s Punjab unit during the assembly elections in early 2017 when the party won 20 seats. “I will fight for the rights of Delhi in Rajya Sabha, especially on the issue of interference by the LG in the work of the elected government,” he said.
 
 Sushil Gupta and Narain Dass Gupta arrived separately at the DC office. The three candidates met inside but the Guptas left soon after filing their nominations and Sanjay Singh came out later, disappointing the photo journalists waiting for an opportunity to capture all three in a single frame. There were no party supporters to cheer the Guptas.
 
 ND Gupta, 72, was accompanied by his family members, including son Naveen ND Gupta. “In Rajya Sabha, I will flag the need for amendments in GST so that the traders get relief and business picks up. A boom in business activities will create jobs,” Gupta told TOI. He has been associated with Kejriwal since 2007-08 and has been helping   manage its accounts and also in its fight with the income tax department.
 
 Sushil Gupta appeared in a hurry to leave after filing his nomination. “I will raise the issues of the people of Delhi in the Rajya Sabha,” he said. Gupta runs schools and colleges, besides several hospitals, in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. He was earlier with the Congress and has influence in the Agrawal community in Haryana and Delhi.
 
 
  
 
 
