LUDHIANA: Before removal of illegal structures near  , the municipal corporation (MC) will plan rehabilitation of families residing there from past so many years. Since the land belongs to the railways, the deputy commissioner will decide whether   or railways will conduct the demolition drive at the place. MC has formed a rehabilitation committee for this purpose and the members of this committee have been asked to submit a report mentioning as to where these people can be shifted. The decision regarding demolition will be taken after seeing the rehabilitation plan.

 In a meeting headed by additional commissioner   on Wednesday, the building branch officials cleared that the land belongs to railways, and the revenue department has also certified it. According to the officials, there are around 97 illegal structures at this place, which have to be removed. Officials from the railways and national highway authority of India were also present at the meeting.
 
 The additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal said, “First of all, we will make a plan to shift people from this site and as far as demolition drive is concerned, the decision will be taken by the deputy commissioner. The joint commissioner   has been given the responsibility of planning the rehabilitation of these families.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the contractor hired by the railways is waiting for the removal of these structures, so that dismantling of old portion of bridge could take place. The structures need to be removed because the bridge will be widened. The MC and railways are passing the responsibility of the removal of encroachments on each other for past one month. This has also delayed the work to some extent. 
 
 However, the commuters are now getting stuck in traffic jam, as one side of the bridge has now been closed even for two wheelers. This ia causing inconvenience to people. The MC officials have also been asked to remove the temporary encroachments from the   from where the traffic has been diverted, so that there should be no traffic hindrance.
 
 
