MADURAI/KANYAKUMARI: Tension prevailed in Pasumalai after police resorted to a lathicharge on students who staged a road block demanding that the state government withdraw the recent bus fare hike. At least seven students were picked up for staging the blockade.

 It all began when students from the Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College began a protest at the college entrance in the afternoon. Soon, they staged a road blockade on Tirupparankundram Main Road, bringing traffic to a half. 
 
 In a few minutes, police personnel were deployed at the spot. Though they urged the students to withdraw the blockade as it was affecting vehicular movement, the students refused, resulting in police using force to disperse them. Due to the lathicharge, the protesters ran helter-skelter.
 
 While the state has been witnessing protests for the last few days demanding the rollback of fare hike, students began protests at many place on Tuesday. The protesters said that the increase was steep in nature and would come as a big blow to the weaker section of the society.
 
 At present, free buses passes are being issued to school students and government college students. The state government has reassured that the welfare would continue. 
 
 Earlier in the day, a large number of cadres of   of India (Marxist) staged a road block at the Periyar bus terminal. It was led by party urban district secretary, R Vijayarajan. They raised slogans against the state government as the fare hike has affected the poor sections. Police had to forcibly evict from the spot. About 160 cadres, including 15 women were shifted to a hall and held under preventive arrest. 
 
 Similarly, CPI functionaries staged a protest at   near South Gate. Led by urban district secretary Jayaraman, they raised slogans and registered their protest. 
 
 Law college students also staged a protest by boycotting classes in the afternoon.
 
 In Kanyakumari, hundreds of college students resorted to a road blockade at Nithiravilai Junction. Students of St Jude’s College, Thoothoor, who took part in the protest raised slogans urging the government to withdraw the fare hike as it is badly affecting students among a cross section of the society everyday.
 
 The protesters, including girls affected traffic on the road for close to 30 minutes. At Scott Christian College, Nagercoil, students and Students Federation of India cadre sat at the entrance of the college and staged a demonstration, raising slogans.
 
 
