BHUBANESWAR: Online admission process for Plus II courses has been started from Friday. Last date of applying online is June 17 (11.45 pm).

 
 "The students, who have cleared the class X examinations, need to apply online for different streams like arts, commerce and science within the deadline through www.samsodisha.gov.in," said  , director of higher secondary education. 
 
 Directorate of higher secondary education notification said the students have to submit their common application form ( ) through online mode. Following this, they are required to submit an offline copy of it along with all relevant documents and admission fees (if not paid online) at the SAMS (Student Academic Management System) centre by 5 pm on June 18.
 
 Students can choose at least five colleges and maximum 10 colleges as their choice of colleges. Last year the maximum number of colleges was 20, official sources said. 
 
 Merit list of first selection of candidates will be published on June 23. Admissions for these candidates will take place between June 25 and 28. Similarly, the second phase selection list would be declared on July 3 and admission process would continue at the colleges between July 4 and 6.
 
 Spot selection or third phase admission will be held at the end. Spot selection will be held against the seats lying vacant in the colleges between July 15 and 17. The regular classes under science, commerce and arts streams in the junior colleges of the state will begin from July 19, said Seal.
 
 He said students have been asked to give two mobile numbers for better communication. "If one mobile number will not work, information can be passed through the second phone number. We have advised the students not to change the mobile number till the admission process is completed," he added.
 
 On the first day, a total of 1553 students have registered their names for the Plus II courses. Out of them, 150 students have submitted common application form (CAF). As many as 28 students have made payment online.
 
 Admission will be conducted at 1993 colleges, including 231 vocational and 172 Sanskrit colleges, in the state. 
 
 As many as 4, 38,348 students have passed the matric examination this year. They can apply for Plus II course online. A total of 1715 students have secured A1 grade (more than 90 per cent marks) this year.
 
