PANAJI: If you’re looking for a  , death or marriage record for the period 1965-1970 in Goa, you may be staring at a black hole. That’s because all   pertaining to this period at most civil registrar-cum-sub-registrar offices are missing.

 
  
  
 
 Civil registrar-cum-sub registrar offices are turning back persons seeking copies of births, deaths and marriages citing reasons that either the records are in tatters, or have vanished. With registrars now asking applicants to follow the legal process, the search for a document has turned nightmarish for applicants.
 
 In the Panaji office, the records from 1965 to 1970 are unavailable. “All the records are mutilated or have disappeared due to rough handling by people,” a staffer told TOI. The situation is no different in other parts of Goa. “The Quepem office refused to issue me a document. But this is not right, as earlier we would receive them based on old originals or photocopies,” Quepem resident Tony Rodrigues said.
 
 “Why should people suffer over the government’s neglect to preserve records?” he asked. “Digital records should be used to reconstruct lost documents or copies given by applicants should be relied upon.” 
 
 Civil registrar-cum-sub-registrar, Quepem, Sujata Prabhudessai, said that her office has stopped issuing documents in cases where record books are unavailable or pages are missing or mutilated. The consequences are being felt by many, including those seeking employment prospects abroad.
 
 “My travel plans for a job abroad have been hit badly due to this dilemma,” says Marcelino Vaz, a Portuguese passport seeker. Among those affected are not just people in the age group of 53-58, but also their children who are searching for their parents’ records to make Portuguese passports or for other needs.
 
 In Canacona, death certificates from 1967 to 1970 are totally destroyed. Travelling from remote areas of Goa to Panaji in order to avail a copy of the certificate entails expenditure and waste of time. “A person from Canacona making a trip to the state registrar’s office in Panaji will have to spend Rs 300 for every trip,” an official conceded.
 
 The Margao office, catering to the densely-populated Salcete taluka, receives requests galore for documents. Officials from the department of planning and statistics have said that the lack of 1965-1969 records in some offices has hindered computerization of records.
 
 Caetano Cardoz of Loutolim had applied for his birth certificate in September 2017, but is yet to get his copy despite repeated visits and providing a copy of his birth certificate as reference.
 
 When TOI asked civil registrar-cum-sub registrar, Mapusa, Mahesh Prabhu  , if documents from 1965-1970 were available, he replied that records can be obtained online or from the department of planning and statistics. Sources at the Mapusa sub-registrar office, however, told TOI that the records for the period are unavailable. “Birth records from 1965 to 1969 are not available. Only some 1970 birth records are available,” said a source.
 
 In Ponda, all documents for the period 1965-1970 are available and readable. But, the documents from 1968 to 1970 are in a pathetic condition as the sub-registrar office has no system of maintaining them with the use of chemicals as is done at the archives department, sources told TOI.
 
 In Pernem, records from the period 1965–1970 are mostly damaged. Sub-registrar officials say that a major reason for the damage or complete loss of records is due to the quality of paper used during this period. The paper is easily damaged as the years pass by, and it becomes difficult to handle, say sub-registrar staffers.
 
 Officials further say that records mostly in demand are from this period (1965–1970). “Until four years ago, applicants were allowed to search for their own documents. But, their casual approach and flipping through the pages quickly to find their records resulted in damaging the pages. Sub-registrar offices have now stopped this practice and only its own staff are allowed to search records,” said an official.
 
 But all is not lost, as the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, permits issuance of documents based on copies furnished, an official said on condition of anonymity.
 
 When contacted, state registrar-cum-head of notary services Ashutosh Apte denied that issuance of certificates has been stopped on oral instructions. “We instructed our offices to issue certificates only after verifying originals from the registrar’s office,” he said.
 
 While digitalisation of records is being seen as a long-term solution, director, planning and statistics department, Durga Prasad, said, “We are assessing the problems of digitalisation. But, we are also facing a problem of shortage of manpower.”
 
 The planning and statistics department, which is responsible for reconstruction of the records, has delayed the completion of the task. It had sent digital records to five talukas on a pilot basis many years ago. “These digital records could be used to issue certificates,” sources said.
 
 (With inputs from Paul Fernandes, Johnny M, Keshav Naik, Denver D’Souza and Suraj Kaisuvker).
 
