HYDERABAD: People riding two wheelers without   continues to be a growing menace despite the increasing accidents in the city.

 
 With head injuries being identified as the top cause of fatalities among two-wheeler riders and pillion riders, experts are calling for stricter enforcement and more awareness on road safety.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Figures also indicate that motorists are always the top category of road mishap victims in the city. In 2018, till March, motorists accounted for about 50 per cent of road accident victims recorded within Hyderabad limits. Motorists also accounted for over 37 per cent of the deaths recorded in the same time. More than 25 motorists have been victims of fatal road accidents between January and March, this year.
 
 While Hyderabad traffic cops booked 10,60,368 helmetrule violation cases till April 27, the number of cases has only seen a steady year-on-year increase, worrying cops, who are trying to curb the menace.
 
 Between 2017 and 2016, there was a 40 per cent rise in helmet rule violations recorded within Hyderabad limits. In 2016, Hyderabad traffic cops booked more than 17,91,417 people for not wearing a helmet and this jumped to 25,53,796 in 2017.
 
 “Wearing a helmet is mandatory for the pillion rider as well—currently this is not enforced strictly in Hyderabad. Pillion riders are more prone to fatal accidents than the rider. Wearing safety gear can help significantly bring down the fatalities recorded among motorists. Traffic cops must also ensure that the helmets being used are in full compliance with the safety standards,” said  , CEO of the Indian Federation of Road Safety (IFROS).
 
 Compliance to safety norms is low among four-wheeler drivers in the city also—as is indicated by the rising number of those caught violating the seat-belt rule, year-on-year. From 19,248 in 2016, the total number of cases booked for violating the seatbelt rule jumped to 84,066 in 2017. Till April 27 this year, over 34,317 cases of violation of the seatbelt rule were booked within Hyderabad limits—shows data provided by the Hyderabad traffic police department.
 
 TIMES VIEW: At a time when people are ignoring the helmet rule, the onus is on the police to strictly enforce the law and impose strict penalties. They must also conduct more awareness campaigns.
 
