JAIPUR: Rajasthan   on Wednesday issued notice to the Union home secretary and chairman of the Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) for not having a policy for advertisement.

 The division bench of Justice KS Jhaveri and VK Vyas issued the order on a PIL by lawyer S K Singh.
 
 The petition said the LIC spends hundreds of crores on advertisements every year without any policy. 
 
 The petitioner said he had filed an   application seeking the company’s advertisement policy and the amount spent every year from 2013 to 2017 on advertisement. The company replied that it has not any specific advertisement policy but has not disclosed the amount spent for advertisement.
 
 But the petitioner said the 59the annual report of the LIC says it had spent about Rs 44763 lakh (about 450 crore) in the year for advertisement. The petitioner said LIC had also invested in the PNB bank scam accused Nirav Midi owned company   of about 1400 crore. The petition alleged that the shareholders money is being squandered away in advertisement without any specific policy or guidelines.
 
 
 
 Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court stayed the order of the family court enhancing the maintenance amount to an estranged wife and child to Rs 8000 from Rs 4500 through an ex party order. 
 
 The single bench of Justice KS   issued the order following her husband Ram Dayal filed a petition challenging the family court order in the high court.
 
 Ramavtar Bochalya, counsel for the petitioner said he had opted for a second marriage after his first wife died in 2001. He had two children from the first marriage. However his marriage with his second wife did not last long and she left for her home after the birth of a child.
 
 She filed a petition in the family court seeking maintenance in 2008. The family court awarded an initial amount Rs 1,000 for her and Rs 750 for the maintenance of the child. In 2013 the she filed a petition in the family court for enhancing the maintenance amount. The court enhanced the amount of her to 3000 and her son Rs 1,500.
 
 According to the petitioner in order to harass the petitioner again in 2015 she field another petition for increasing the maintenance amount and the family court further increased her maintenance to Rs 5000 and of the child to Rs 3000. The petitioner challenged this in the high court. He said his total salary is only Rs 21556 per month and he had two children from his first marriage to look after. The court stayed the maintenance enhanced beyond Rs 5000 and issued notice to the respondents.
 
 
