KOCHI: When arterial roads like  ,   and   experience heavy traffic blocks, most motorists are more than willing to drive through alternative routes. However,   and the apathy in introducing one-way traffic systems make it impossible for motorists to drive through the narrow bylanes that link parallel roads and alternative routes. 

 "MG Road is among the busiest ones in the city. It is possible to divert the traffic through   and TD Road that run parallel to it. The haphazard parking on byroads connecting MG Road with the parallel roads dissuades motorists from driving through those routes," said president of Ernakulam District Resident's Association Apex Council (EDRAAC) Rangadasa Prabhu.
 
 The apex body of residents' association said that though they have taken up the matter with the corporation, police and district administration, no action was taken in this regard. As there are many bylanes connecting MG Road with parallel roads, it would be easy to introduce one-way traffic system.
 
 Vittappa Prabhu Road, Jew Street, T D East Sannidhi Road, Gopala Prabhu Road, Convent Road, A K Sheshadri Road and KT Koshy Avenue link MG Road and TD Road. Whereas Veekshanam Road, Jew Street, Doraiswamy Iyer Road, Mullassery Canal Road, SRV Road, Sadanam Road, Nettipadam Road and AM Thomas Road link MG Road and Chittoor Road. These are the major bylanes along the stretch between Madhava Pharmacy Junction and Pallimukku on MG Road.
 
 Similarly, if an effective one-way system is introduced along the alternative routes that link Kaloor and Edappally, vehicles will be able to move smoothly. "Many of the bylanes are too narrow to facilitate movement of vehicles in both directions. Vehicles getting stuck when they try to reach Mamagalam or Edappally by taking various bylanes are a common sight," said Sindhu TV, an employee of a private company, who frequently travels on the route.
 
 As Kochi Metro works progresses along Sahodharan Ayyappan Road, motorists try to move along the various bylanes that connects it with Subash Chandra Bose Road to reach Vyttila. 
 
 Temple Road, Muttathil Lane, Fathima Church Road, Ambelipadam Road, Jr Janatha Road and Paradise Road link SA Road and Subash Chandra Bose Road. If the local body takes interest in relaying and maintaining these byroads it will help to bring down traffic congestion on main roads.
 
 Meanwhile, police seem to be least interested in tightening their grip on haphazard parking. They are equally hesitant in introducing one-way traffic system citing inconvenience caused to residents. However, it should be noted most buildings on the sides of bylanes are occupied by commercial outlets.
 
 ACP (traffic west) MA Nazeer said: "Police regularly act against people who park their vehicles beyond the specified limit on bylanes. Introducing one-ways system on bylanes will cause inconvenience to people residing in nearby areas."
 
 
 
