RAMPURA (BATHINDA): Despite the state government claims of no harassment of small farmers over repayment of   by the Punjab State Co-operative Agricultural Development Bank Limited (PSCADB), they (small farmers) are getting arrest warrants from courts for not clearing the outstanding debt. In the last 20 days, two farmers have been arrested in Bathinda district.

 Farmers allege that the bank authorities are filing cases in courts over dishonouring of cheques given by them while availing loan under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. They have also accused the state government of adopting double standards as it was preparing ground for their arrest over default in repaying loans while it makes claims of not harassing small farmers.
 
 Farmers assembled outside the Rampura branch of PSCADB and staged a dharna on Saturday. The bank recovery has already taken a dip and its Ferozepur division made a recovery of Rs 61 crore (8.5%) only till May 17, out of the total default amount of Rs 706 crore against 35,000 farmers. 
 
 Mithu Singh (68) of Jhanduke village of Bathinda was arrested on May 16 for failing to repay his loan. Mithu, who owns three acres, had taken Rs 3 lakh loan from the PSCADB branch in Rampura in 2012 for a buying tractor and installing a tubewell motor in his fields. When he failed to pay the installment, the bank presented his cheque of Rs 1.30 lakh for clearing. The cheque was dishonoured due to insufficient amount in his account and the bank filed a case in the court, which awarded him one-year jail in a cheque-bounce case.
 
 Mithu’s brother Tej Singh, who was among the protesting farmers, told TOI on Saturday, “After the court sentenced him to one-year imprisonment, we deposited Rs 80,000 in the bank but Mithu was arrested still.” 
 
 Karamjit Singh (36) of Nandgarh Kotra village, who owns four acres, had secured a loan of Rs 2.24 lakh from Rampura branch of the bank nearly eight years ago. He wanted the money for purchasing a tractor. When he failed to repay the money, a notice for Rs 4.35 lakh (interest added) was sent to him. 
 
 The bank filed a case against him after his cheque was returned by the clearing bank. A month ago, Karamjit was ordered one-year imprisonment and arrested on April 30. His father Major Singh said the bank never told them about the court case. “We were taken aback when a police team reached our home to arrest Karamjit. Now, he is lodged in Bathinda jail,” he said.
 
 Kewal Singh of Jhanduke too faces arrest for non-payment of Rs 5 lakh loan availed nearly two years ago. So does Mukhtiar Singh of Rampura. “We had secured a loan of Rs 9 lakh from the PSCADB nearly four years ago. I had deposited Rs 2 lakh. Now we face a cheque bounce case and obtained anticipatory bail from Rampura court only a few days ago. But I may be arrested after the expiry of bail term next month,” said Mukhtiar.
 
 Joginder Singh of Khokhar village, who had availed a loan of Rs 2 lakh August 12, 2014, also defaulted on repayment. The bank put up a cheque for Rs 1.45 lakh from his account for clearing on May 31, 2017, which was dishonoured and warrants issued for his arrest. He told TOI, “As police visited my home a few days ago, I am trying to get anticipatory bail.”
 
 Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “I’ve given clear instructions not to harass any small or marginal   who is unable to repay the loan. I’ve asked the officials not to take blank cheques from farmers while sanctioning them loans and issue departmental warrants. However, when the matter is referred to the court in old cases, it goes beyond our jurisdiction and we are unable to do anything.”
 
 Bathinda district chief of farmer outfit BKU(Ekta Ugrahan) Shingara Singh Mann said, “We are fighting against the state government for making claims of no harassment to small farmers, when it is, on the contrary, getting them arrested. There are lots of cases in Bathinda where farmers face arrest. We have raised the issue of collection of blank cheques by banks while advancing loans and using these as a tool to put farmers behind bars. We will organize protests across Punjab on May 28 against this.”
 
 PSCADB’s Ferozepur division regional officer-cum-DGM Balbir Singh denied any harassment to farmers, claiming, “We have not issued departmental warrants against any farmer. It is only the court which is issuing warrants. We are taking strict action against big wilful defaulters to make recoveries as the bank’s financial health is very bad. Also, we are only persuading small farmers to repay loans.”
 
 
