KOLKATA: The state CID refuted the allegations made by former   in a bid to weaken the harassment plea she is set to make in the high court against the CID raid at her husband’s Naktala residence. The state investigating agency doesn’t want the cash-for-gold fraud case to get stuck in legal tangles. Raids continued even on Saturday to trace the trails of the illgotten gains.

 DIG operations (CID) Nishat Parvez denied Ghosh’s allegations saying that the investigating agency had reached the place without knowing whom the house belonged to. “We were tipped off the address only and went there based on leads that we could find some trails related to the case. We didn’t torture anyone. We seized documents, including land deeds, laptops, hard drives, cellphones and pen drives from the house in connection with an ongoing case,” Parvez said. While the investigators will take some time to scan the other seized items, they found few land deeds belonging to Ghosh.
 
 
 The CID rejoinder came a day after Ghosh accused the police of locking her husband in a room while she was out of town. “They (CID) had no papers to conduct the raid and didn’t specify any reasons for it. They didn’t let my husband to talk to his lawyer, his phone connection was snapped and cellphone taken away. The house was ransacked,” Ghosh said.
 
 Apart from the Naktala house, the CID also went over to the sixth floor of an apartment on  , where Ghosh’s son stays, on Friday night. Other teams are checking some land assets in Birbhum, a Bolpur guest house and aMidnapore flat to identify the owner. Sources said Ghosh’s personal security, constable Sujit Mandal, wrote to West Midnapore SP   to relieve him from service.
 
 Belda OC Pradip Rath, who was named in the cash-for-gold FIR, was allowed to go home on Saturday evening after interrogation. While a Midnapore court sent police officer Bimal Ghorai to cop custody, some other officers — including Rajsekhar Pyne (former  ),   Pal (former Ghatal OC) and Debasish Das (attached to the West Midnapore SP’s office) — who were once close to Ghosh, were questioned. Police will start a departmental inquiry against the accused officers.
 
