PUNE: After the drastic dip estimated in vegetables produced in   this fiscal, the yield from the kharif and rabi seasons is also likely to witness a plunge in 2017-18. 

 Fresh estimates from the state agriculture department show that   in the state is estimated to fall from 169 lakh tonne last fiscal to 133 lakh tonne this fiscal. Sources said the yield of both cereals and pulses is likely to fall significantly, which may push up the prices of some commodities, especially wheat and gram.
  
  
 The agriculture department production data, which refers to the 2017 kharif season and the ongoing rabi season, includes estimates after the recent hailstorms in the state.
 
 A state agriculture department official told TOI that the fall in production of pulses like green gram, soybean and black gram was due to the dry spell during the monsoon last year, while paddy or rice suffered due to both the dry spell during last year’s kharif season as well as pest attacks. “The rabi season too had its share of unseasonal rain, where crops growing on close to 2.5 lakh hectare suffered. However, only the coming period will reflect the actual yield from the rabi season,” he said.
 
 Vilas Shinde, director of  , said variation in the weather was one of the reasons for the fall in production of the wheat during the rabi season. “Wheat needs cold weather for about 40 days. However, the rainfall in December last year and the recent hail and unseasonal rain events adversely affected wheat production. Production of pulses fell because farmers reduced sowing last year after the low minimum support price offered to them in 2016,” he said.
 
 Wheat production is estimated to dip from 22 lakh tonne to 12 lakh tonne this fiscal while that of gram may fall by 1 lakh tonne from 19 lakh tonne.
 
 Dhaval Shah, director,  , which deals in food commodities in western India, said price of wheat is expected to rise by Rs 2-3 per kg. He said the price of gram may also rise. “Maharashtra’s wheat mostly comes from Madhya Pradesh, where recent unseasonal rain damaged the crop. Their government may also hike the MSP. Both these reasons may push up wheat prices further,” he said.
 
 
