LUDHIANA: Going to attend marriage celebrations of their relative, two brothers in their 20s and their teenaged cousin were killed after their car plunged into Sidhwan canal near Chak Kalan village in Ludhiana on Friday night.

 The deceased were identified as 25-year-old   Singh, who ran dairy business, his younger brother Devinder Singh (23), sons of ASI Balwinder Singh of Jagraon police, and their cousin  , who was son of their uncle Jaswinder Singh.
 
 Kamaldeep had got married just four months ago. His brother Devinder was a volleyball player who played for his village team and was known for helping other youths in the village. Akashdeep had to appear for Class XII examination on Saturday.
 
 They were travelling to Swadi Kalan to celebrate marriage of their cousin.
 
 Sukhbir Singh, cousin of the deceased, said after his marriage, Kamaldeep was planning to go to Canada to join his wife Avneet Kaur, who had gone to the North American nation for studies.
 
 “His wife has been in shock since hearing about Kamaldeep’s death in a road accident. She will return on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 Devinder, a volleyball player, was doing a private course after his higher secondary, he added.
 
 “Akashdeep Singh was lone brother of four sisters. He was appearing in the Class XII examination and was to appear for paper on Saturday. We are all in a shock after the incident.”
 
 The relatives of the deceased persons said that the trio had attended the marriage of their cousin Lucky at Phillaur and later returned to village to drop Kamaldeep’s sister. They added they were going to maternal aunt’s place to celebrate the marriage of their cousin.
 
 Jasbir Singh, relative of the deceased, said trio left in the Maruti Swift DZire car from the village. After travelling for a distance, the vehicle hit a wall on the sides of the bridge on Sidhwan canal. He added that later the vehicle fell into the canal.
 
 “Some villagers who were returning from the market spotted the vehicle in the canal after which the whole village rushed to the spot. We later brought them out and later took the car out of canal with the help of a tractor. We then rushed them to a private hospital in Pandori where they were declared dead,” said the relative of the deceased.
 
 He said Akashdeep was alive when he was shifted to the hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 A villager said the trio could have been saved had they been brought out of the canal sooner. He said it took almost half an hour to bring out the trio which proved fatal. He said the canal stretch where the accident happened was around 10-foot deep.
 
 Meanwhile, former MLA Mullanpur Dakha Manpreet Singh visited the bereaved family to express his condolences.
 
 
