NEW DELHI: Calling himself the “sewak” of the people, Delhi chief minister Arvind   did an accounting of his pre-poll promises and the achievements of his government after completing   in power. On Wednesday, he blamed much of what remained unachieved or delayed on the centre and the lieutenant governor of Delhi, and wove the dream of a “modern, vibrant, pollution-free and smart city” for the year ahead.

 Charging the centre with stalling the state’s work at an event to mark the third anniversary of the  , the CM made an emotive appeal to the central government: “Send us all to jail but clear our files.” Kejriwal also triumphantly hailed his government as a survivor against all odds. 
 
  
  
 After summing up his government’s achievements, he gave himself a pat on the back with a slogan — Ab sarkar imaandar ho toh sab kuch ho sakta hai.
 
  
 
 
 With the possibility of bypolls in 20 assembly constituencies whose legislative representatives have been disqualified by the   in the office of profit case, and the   looming large, Kejriwal showcased AAP’s helmsmanship in a lengthy speech lasting 48 minutes. As on its first anniversary, the government made a symbolic connect with the common man through live phone-ins and queries raised through social media. The “aam aadmi” was not physically present in the auditorium at NDMC Convention Centre though. The hall was packed to capacity with cabinet ministers and top bureaucrats on the dais and officers, MLAs and the media in the audience.
  
  
 Defining his government as one that believed in “people” and hence “social infrastructure”, Kejriwal pointed at the achievements in the core sectors of education and health. A future agenda was laid out that was focused on the city’s low-income sections. To salvage the choking city, the CM planned to launch an attack on pollution and added that to ensure basic infrastructure, Delhi’s budget for 2018-19 would have room for “big investments” in roads, sewer and drains. Though he admitted that the much delayed free Wi-Fi promise was yet to take off, he pledged anew that this year's budget would earmark funds for its implementation and “soon a deadline for delivering this will be shared”.
 
 On the criticism that AAP was not focusing on infrastructure such as bridges and flyovers, Kejriwal asserted, “We have completed the construction of 11 flyovers. People remember the previous government as the ‘flyover sarkar’ because its biggest achievement was building flyovers in 15 years. They built 57, so if you compare our performance based on the number of years we have been in power and the years they headed the government, then we can say we are equal to them.”
 
 The CM also observed that power tariff had not been increased for three years even as water pipelines and sewer lines were now reaching all colonies. He again reminded that 2,000 buses would be added to the city’s public transport fleet this year.
 
 Kejriwal accused the centre and the lieutenant governor of slowing the pace of work in the state. “They have troubled us a lot,” he alleged. “I challenge anyone with the kind of problems we faced to even try to routinely run the city. We have managed to achieve all these despite the huge odds.” The AAP leader then added, “They stall all files. Some 400 files of the state were summoned by the LG’s office for scrutiny by a monitoring committee in 2016. They found nothing. All files were sent back. I challenge them...give us your files for four days and then we will show you.”
 
 Lashing out at the centre, he said, “They carried out a CBI raid on my office and another raid at the house of Satyendar Jain. There are four cases against  , there are around eight cases against Jain. Around 15 of our MLAs were put in jail, all on false charges.” Then in a climactic tone, he declared, “I only have one request: put us all in jail but don’t trouble the people of Delhi. All this is affecting development of Delhi. Please don’t stall the files.”
 
 He went on to allege that many important Bills, around 16 of them, were pending with the centre. Among the bills and policies awaiting approval, he named the Lokpal Bill, no-detention policy, a bill to enable the audit of private schools, the amendment bill on time-bound delivery of services and enhancement of punishment for those violating the minimum wages norms. He concluded by maintaining that Delhi was caught in “dirty politics”.
 
 
