KOLKATA: Ballerinas are set to be replaced at one of the leading girls’ schools in the city. Junior section students of Modern High School for Girls will soon be breaking away from a half-a-century-old tradition and slipping into the comfort of black sneakers.

 A circular recently issued by the school declared that the switch will come into effect from the academic year 2018-19. The change in footwear has been advised for classes III, IV and V by a physiotherapist who is also an alumnus of the school.
 
 “Students from Class VI onwards are already wearing them. Now, we are extending the new footwear to classes III to V,” said director of Modern High School Devi Kar, adding: “The suggestion is sensible since our students have often complained of feet injury and pain. Some have even been suffering from feet deformities, which can be corrected by wearing appropriate footwear. The sneakers, a healthier option, will help students to move freely and improve their posture.”
 
 City orthopaedics welcomed the move. Anirban Chatterjee, consultant paediatric orthopedic surgeon, said children should wear comfortable and padded footwear that helps them cope with pain. “Everyone will not have the same type of feet. It is better to allow them to wear padded footwear. The traditional black shoes commonly used has a standard pattern. Those who have flat feet may have discomfort wearing them over a long time. The sneakers will help them stop the pain. Also, kids play and the soft and flexible sneakers will pose no problems there.”
 
 Ayan Roy, consultant orthopaedic at  , agreed. “Conventional school shoes are broad at the back and narrow in front. It should be the other way round. Wearing pointed shoes can lead to a host of feet problems like a deformed toe, swelling in the heels, pain in the lower back and even foot bumps caused by a projecting bone. Wearing softer sneakers is recommended for children,” said Roy.
 
 Swapna Agarwal, chief of physiotherapy at   who had suggested the change, pointed out that the shape of shoes that children usually wear to school was wrong. “The human feet is designed to walk on soft ground and students walk on extremely hard floors. Wearing hard shoes damage their feet,” she said.
 
 “While some parents bring children immediately for consultation, others keep suffering and the problem persists till old age. Parents should know that the formal and typical footwear is not good for their children. Incorrect footwear impacts knee, lower back and spine. Bad feet are equivalent to a bad spine. So I suggested that instead of waiting till Class V, children should be allowed to wear comfortable shoes earlier,” she said.
 
 South Point School was the first to introduce sneakers from Class I.
 
 “Our students wear black sneakers and they serve as both formal and sports shoes,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani.
 
