BENGALURU: The  , income-tax department and Karnataka excise department have joined forces to chalk out a comprehensive plan to   and alcohol to influence voters in the May 12 state assembly polls.

 “We have drawn up an elaborate plan in accordance with the EC’s guidelines to curb the use of money power in the elections. The exercise will be on the same lines as that of the income-tax department in any election, but there will be modifications to suit local conditions,” B R Balakrishnan, director-general of income tax (investigation), told TOI.
 
  
 The authorities are confident that this time, technology will be the game changer in their efforts to ensure free and fair elections.
 
 “For the first time, most part of the election process is being automated, with the Election Expenditure Monitoring System which will keep tabs on spending by candidates. We have brought together various agencies, including the income-tax and excise departments, to curb electoral malpractices,” said Sanjiv Kumar, chief electoral officer, Karnataka.
 
 During the 2013 assembly elections, Rs 20 crore in cash, and jewellery and gold worth Rs 3.4 crore were seized, and this was said to be among the largest for assembly elections.
 
 Balakrishnan said dedicated teams headed by the deputy director of income-tax are being deployed at the district level, and will be armed with statutory powers to conduct searches, raids, seize wealth and even interrogate candidates, if required.
 
 While flying squads deployed by the state government and teams of observers sent by the Election Commission of India (ECI) would be on the field, they can only reach the spot but cannot carry out searches or raids. “They have to pass on information to the income-tax department. Only an authorized team can handle illegal wealth,” said Balakrishnan.
 
 He said dedicated telephone lines would be set up and the I-T department would provide email addresses to enable the public to provide information about clandestine cash transactions.
 
 Sanjiv Kumar said the ECI has issued instructions to banks to report daily transactions to the election panel.
 
 EC MONITORING EXPENDITURE
 
 An assembly election candidate is allowed to spend only Rs 28 lakh, and the CEO said the EC has already started monitoring pre-poll expenditure of potential candidates and political parties.
 
 “We’re seizing liquor being illegally transported and distributed by potential candidates, and vigilance will be more stringent now,” Rajendra Prasad, joint excise commissioner, said.
 
 The ECI’s initiatives notwithstanding, observers are sceptical about the efficacy of the measures. “Unless there is no provision to punish errant candidates, these measures will be useless. The seized wealth will be returned after dispute redressal, which is altogether a different issue as there is scope for corruption,” said Trilochan Sastry, founder and trustee, Association for Democratic Reforms.
 
 “The candidates caught with illegal money should be disqualified and not allowed to contest the next elections,” he added.
 
 EXAMS FOR ELECTION OFFICERS TOO
 
 The EC is conducting an examination for returning officers and assistant returning officers. This is to ensure that officials are well-versed with election rules and enforcement. The training module includes accepting and rejecting nomination papers, approving requests to use of vehicles for campaigning, and receiving complaints about electoral malpractices.
 
 
