VADODARA: Professor   – the man who is credited for shaping up and building several institutes of   passed away at the age of 53 at a city-based hospital here on Saturday morning after prolonged illness.

 Bansal is survived by wife Hema and daughter Anusha. His funeral procession will start at 10 am on Sunday from his residence at Sharnam Villa apartments in Pratapgunj to   crematorium at Karelibaug. A guide to some, a mentor to others, but more importantly friend to many students and teachers alike, the former dean of MSU’s biggest faculty – faculty of commerce – Bansal was currently working as director of   (OIA).
 
 
 In his career spanning over three decades, Bansal who had joined just as a temporary teaching assistant at commerce faculty in 1985, proved both his academic and administrative skills on all the posts that he held – be it as warden, associate director of BBA programme, foreign students’ advisor and president of  .
 
 He had also served as incharge director of Reserve Bank of India endowment unit for a period of four years and head of department of cooperative management and rural studies. At otherwise faction-ridden commerce faculty, he was the most popular dean as he smoothly ran the faculty by keeping all the stakeholders together during his stint between 2014 and 2017.
 
 In fact, last year, when he submitted his resignation on health grounds, in a rare gesture, the university’s syndicate body took note of his contribution by passing a resolution on June 30 stating that “his contribution will always be remembered and appreciated”.
 
 “Professor Sharad Bansal, a very brilliant and dynamic face as dean of faculty of commerce will be missed,” the resolution had said. The fact that he took up his assignments as a challenge was proved when he took over centre for lifelong learning, which was on verge of closure. He not only revived the centre but also procured funding from University Grants Commission and established short term courses that continue providing skills to several Barodians till date.
 
 As OIA’s founding director – a post which he held from July 2011, Bansal for two years procured a full partnership for MSU with the prestigious European Union funded Erasmus Mundus Higher Education for a consortium of Euros three million.
 
 With 29 active international partnerships, OIA under his leadership procured funding from agencies like the European Union, British Council and the German Academic Extent Service amongst others.
 
 As the news of his demise spread, condolence messages started pouring in from foreign students and international delegates. “This is really a very sad news. My heartfelt condolences to his family and all those who loved and admired him. All would definitely miss him. Wish all strength to overcome this loss,” said Gertrude Zhao-Heissenberger, director of culture and language department at the ministry of education, Austria.
 
 “Amongst his several contributions, he will be always remembered for projecting MSU on global map and ensuring that Faculty of Commerce scales new heights of development,” said MSU VC professor Parimal Vyas.
 
