PATIALA: The   committee constituted by the state government to examine the alleged distortion of Sikh history in the   ( ) Class XII textbook held its first meeting here on Monday. The panel members were provided the books and content for reading and analysis.

 The oversight committee headed by Prof Kirpal Singh includes former vice-chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Prof J S Grewal, former pro VC of GNDU Prof Prithipal Singh Kapur, Prof Emeritus of history at Panjab University (PU) Indu Banga. Two eminent historians nominated by SGCP — Prof Balwant Singh Dhillon and I S Gogoani — are also part of the committee.
 
 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) members, who are part of the government panel, said in the next meeting they would also raise the issue of alleged distorted content in the history books being taught to the students during the previous years.
 
 “I have not analyzed the complete Class XII history books used in the previous years. I had gone roughly through these books and found lot of objectionable content. We will raise this matter in next meeting,” said Prof Dhillon. 
 
 “In the first meeting, we have sought the content of history books released by the state government this year so that we can analyze it. We will go through the entire content and submit our comments,” the SGPC-nominated member of the oversight committee said. He added that any content being published against Sikh history and Gurus couldn’t be tolerated.
 
 Head of the oversight committee Prof Kirpal Singh said all members were present in the meeting and the content was distributed among them. “They will submit their suggestions after going through the books. We are trying to speed up the work of analyzing the content so that students may get the corrected history content as earliest possible,” he said.
 
 PSEB chairman Manohar Kant refused to comment on the issue stating that he was busy. However, board officials revealed that no recommendations had been yet given to the PSEB by the oversight committee.
 
 The committee was constituted on May 7, by chief minister Amarinder Singh to consider and report on the recommendations of the expert group, constituted by the PSEB in 2014, to review the changes made in the new history syllabus for classes XI and XII, and to suggest corrections.
 
 
