Bhopal: AICC general secretary and former chief minister Digvijaya Singh on Friday shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on non-payment of MNREGA dues to labourers and small businessmen in the state. “My appeal to you is that treating it as top priority, Centre should within a week allocate Rs 450 crore so that dues maybe paid,” Singh wrote. He said in remote tribal areas, labourers are running from pillar to post, from banks to the panchayat offices for payments to be cleared.

 The Congress has repeatedly been claiming labourers, who worked for various projects under the MNREGA scheme in Madhya Pradesh have not received much of their dues over the recent past because of non-allocation of funds by the Centre. The Union government has to pay Rs 450 crore under the MNREGA to the state and funds are yet to be sent.
 
 “In past six months, I have been on the Narmada circumambulation, which concluded on April 9,” Singh wrote in the letter to PM dated April 20. “During the circumambulation, I met people living in the tribal-dominated districts. I am pained after being informed by them their dues under MNREGA have not been paid.”
 
 Singh said Rs 450 crore is the amount that is to be paid to labourers and small businessmen, who sold material for work on different projects. “This shows that along with the state, the Centre is also insensitive in this matter,” the letter said. “People have started losing faith in the world’s largest ‘Employment Guarantee Scheme’. At places, these simple people are being cheated by middlemen and the government machinery.”
 
 The former chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP asserted during the Narmada Parikrama with 250 persons, he has walked through Nimar, Malwa and Mahakaushal region. He gave an account of dues in districts he walked through during the circumambulation, including Rs 6 crore in Anuppur, Rs 10 crore in Dindori, Rs 6 crore in Shahdol, Rs 7 crore in Umaria, Rs 13 crore in Mandla, Rs 12 crore in Seoni, Rs 18 crore in Dhar, Rs 12 crore in Alirajpur and Rs 10 crore in Jhabua.
 
 Digvijaya Singh reminded that under provisions of the MNREGA Act, if payments are delayed, then to cover losses, extra payments have to be made to labourers. No such procedure of making extra payments for delay is being followed here. “Now, when I have brought this bitter truth to your knowledge, then I expect that lakhs of labourers of this state who worked under MNREGA will be paid their dues along with the extra charges for delay in payment. I also hope that you will order for action against those state and Union government officials responsible for the delay in payment,” the Congress leader’s letter said. Singh also recommended that payments be made in the backward districts in cash.
 
 
