Kanpur-born singer-composer   is all set to start a new chapter in his life. The ' ' singer is tying the knot with Kanpur girl,  , a mechanical engineer who is working in Bengaluru, later this month. 
In Lucknow to perform at the ongoing Lucknow Mahotsav, the ' ' singer opens about his feelings before tying the knot on February 23 at his hometown, Kanpur. 
 "It's still not sunk in," says Ankit, adding, "I actually don't know how I am feeling. Khush bhi hoon, nervous bhi."
 An arranged match that’s been fixed by his parents, Ankit says Pallavi’s simplicity is what attracted him to her. "She's a very sweet girl and already gets along very well with everyone at home, which is what matters most, as ours is a very close-knit family," he says, adding, "My parents had never stopped me from having a love marriage, but my experience with love has been rather bad. So I am happy with the choice my parents have made for me. After all, every parent wants the best for their child. It’s going to be the start of a new phase in my life and I want it to be a really good one!"
 
  
  Ankit with his mother Suman, brother Ankur and bhabhi Swati, at his niece Pari’s mundan last year (BCCL) 
 
 Ankit, who was arrested in 2014 for allegedly raping a woman and was acquitted last year, says that Pallavi is well aware of his past. "We met before things were finalized and I discussed everything with her. She is a very well educated girl and understands things. Her parents were also made aware of everything right from the start. Ab zamaana bahut aage badh chuka hai. Aaj bhi log discussion kar sakte hain, I can’t stop them. What's important is ki jiske saath mein judne wala hoon, nothing is hidden from her and her family," says Ankit, "I didn't need to justify myself to her. She's a very genuine person and we sorted out things before we said yes," he adds. 
 Preparations are on at Ankit's house in Kanpur in full swing. "Gharwale sab taiyyariyan kar rahe hain. I am too busy to do anything. In fact, we still haven’t decided on where we will go for our honeymoon, if we will be able to, in fact."
 
 
