DEHRADUN: Taking a major step in breaking the ice over pending issues of asset distribution, a high-level delegation meeting headed by chief secretaries of both Uttarakhand and   is scheduled to take place on Saturday. Utpal  , chief secretary, Uttarakhand will be leading the team whereas the delegation from UP will be headed Rajeev Kumar. The UP delegation will also include principal secretary (reconstruction and coordination) Jeetandra Kumar, principal secretary (residence and urban development) Nitin Ramesh Gokarn and principal secretary (irrigation and jal sansthan) T Venkatesh.
 
  Sources privy to information said that the meeting is a major move to settle long-pending matters of asset distribution between the two states. Since Uttarakhand was carved out of Uttar Pradesh on November 9, 2000, the two states have remained at loggerheads over the ownership rights of several properties under various department.
  
  Only after a meeting between two chief ministers, Uttar Pradesh had handed over ownership of   in Haridwar to Uttarakhand. Earlier both sides were contesting the case in  .
  
  The irrigation department, power department and transport department of Uttarakhand are likely to emerge as biggest beneficiaries from Saturday’s meeting.
  
  Around 25% of the buildings which are under the jurisdiction of Uttarakhand but are controlled by the UP Irrigation department are likely to be transferred to the Himalayan state. Besides, the issue of UP giving permission for water sports at the Upper Ganges Canal at   is also a long-pending issue.
  
  Sharing of properties and responsibilities between Uttar Pradesh Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (UPJVNL) and   (UJVNL) is another issue.
  
  The transport department, there would be a division of the department’s guest house at Delhi. The division of Rs 5.40 crore loan which was received from the Parvatiya Vikas Vibhag, clearing of addition tax of transport department from November 9, 200 to October 30, 2003, handing over the construction work of Kiccha bus station and receiving the interest and damage worth RS 11.49 crore for delay in release of EPF amount before the state was created, are included in the pending list.
  
  Under the finance department, there would be apportionment of pension responsibilities between the two states. Under the housing department, the ownership rights of the properties of Awas Vikas worth Rs 60.91 crore under it 25 projects – which are in Uttarakhand – are to be transferred.
  
  Under the home department a 27,000 square feet land at Dharchula in Pithorgardh is to be handed over to Uttarakhand police. Uttar Pradesh has to clear a loan of Rs 48 lakh to be prison department of Uttarakhand.
  
  Similarly, there are many more matters of PWD, Animal Husbandary, Forest Department, Rural Development, Education Department, social welfare, drinking water and sanitation which are to be jointly solved by the two neighbouring states.
