NEW DELHI: In a major policy decision that could possibly change the way sports is governed in India, the government has decided to rope in India’s top corporates and industrialists on a “public-private partnership” to invest and manage the   ( ), a non-taxable corpus through which the country’s athletes receive funding for their training, exposure and equipment needs.

 
 
 
 The government plans to include those business houses which have a history of supporting sports through various financial initiatives, in the executive board managing the NSDF in the coming months.
 
 “We plan to invite India’s 11 top corporates to join the board of people running the NSDF. These will be those corporates who have had the record of spending big money on sports through their various corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. We will finalise this arrangement within the next three months as part of our efforts to professionalise the NSDF,” sports minister   told TOI in an interview.
 
 “These corporates will play a major role in deciding the NSDF funding to athletes since through their personal efforts they would be able to concentrate the CSR of the corporate world in sports. One can’t essentially say that we ( ) are trying to corporatise the NSDF funding. But it’s our way of bringing in more private players on a public-private partnership (PPP) funding model. We will call these 11 people ‘champions’ of sports,” the minister informed.
 
 The NSDF money has played a major role in achieving medal glory at multi-sport events and other global competitions, apart from an athlete’s single-minded determination and focused efforts to put India’s name on the global sporting map.
 
 While no one can discount the athlete’s blood, sweat and tears in preparing for national and international meets, the NSDF grant has played a pivotal role in realising their medal dreams. The NSDF is a 100 percent, tax exempted federal funding which allows its contributor to direct the sports officials where exactly they want their money to be used on which athlete and in which discipline. The same amount which has been contributed should also be put in by the Finance Ministry, leading to doubling up of the amount. Rathore said the athletes receiving the NSDF grant shouldn’t think that they have a sense of entitlement to the funding. Rather, they should look at delivering the results.
 
 “Sense of entitlement is wrong. You can’t have a right on the funding. Your performance and result should speak for you.
 
 “These corporates would be bringing in the money, so they would obviously have some say (in deciding the funding),” Rathore added. 
 
 
