CHANDIGARH: Noted Sufi singer and Panjab University (PU)   Satinder Sartaaj on Thursday said that art and culture is the only solution to improve the relationship between India and Pakistan. Sartaaj said it was a matter of great pride that   is going to establish a ‘Shahmukhi Learning Centre’. 

 The university had decided to set up the centre in March earlier this year after Manpreet Badal had promised to finance five posts to teach Shahmukhi at the university. Sartaaj was interacting with the media on the sidelines of a scholarship award function organised by   (PUAA), here on Thursday.
 
 “When we perform in London, 40% of the audience sitting in the front row is Pakistanis. They love us immensely. They also try to learn Gurmukhi. Also, this university has close connections with Lahore since the university was established in Lahore,” said Sartaaj. The ‘international brand ambassador of Panjab University’, Sartaaj, felt himself at home and said, “PU is my Mecca.” 
 
 Bollywood lyricist Irshad Kamil, also a PU alumnus, echoed similar sentiments and said, “Pakistani artists meet you with so much warmth and love that you actually forget the actual agenda of the meeting.” Kamil, too, went down the memory lane and said he felt great to be “back home.”
 
 Stressing upon the importance of alumni association, Prof. Dr Arun Kumar Grover marked the 99 years of the conception of PU at Lahore in 2017-18 and said, “Alumni connection is important to extend, examine and create the frontier of knowledge.” 
 
 He said next year will commemorate the centenary of Honors School of PU along with that of Prof. R C Paul, who stayed as vice-chancellor for a period of 10 years. A stamp would be released on the occasion, he added.
 
 Prof Monga said the scholarship award function started in 2003. This is the 15th award function. “This year 67 scholarships are being awarded out of which 30 are for affiliated colleges of PU and 37 for PU students,” he said. 
 
 The toppers will receive a scholarship of Rs 10,000 along with a Certificate of Merit and trophy for academic excellence. 
 
 All the graduate and postgraduate toppers have also been conferred with the honorary life membership of PUAA by incurring the expenditure of Rs 1,000 for each from its own funds. 
 
 Apart from this, 16 stipends are also being given, he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, PU launched its official Instagram account — @officialpu.india — by Dr Satinder Sartaaj, noted Sufi singer and Irshad Kamil, famous poet-lyricist of Bollywood, both distinguished PU alumni in the presence of Prof Arun K Grover, vice-chancellor, PU, here on Thursday. 
 
 Prof Grover said that PU has taken another step in strengthening its presence online on the pattern of Digital India Campaign of Government of India through its Instagram account.
 
 
