DEHRADUN: In a crackdown against a group housing society for senior citizens registered in Dehradun, the Uttarakhand income tax (I-T) department has written to the authorities in Greater Noida seeking prohibition of sale and registration of flats and other immovable assets owned by the society in Greater Noida.
 
  Since a decade, the society has failed to pay a staggering outstanding amount of Rs 49.27 crore to the I-T department in Dehradun and information regarding the matter was also shared with the I-T department in Noida, officials said.
  
  The society’s flats are located in the   area of Greater Noida where over 800 residents are living for over 10 years.
  
  Confirming the development, chief commissioner I-T of Uttarakhand, PK  , said: “The outstanding amount owned by the society would be recovered within this financial year and orders of attaching the properties in Noida were given last month.”
  
  According to the I-T department, the   registered in Dehradun has a group housing complex in Greater Noida, in which 854 flats were constructed and allotted to members in their late 90s.
  
  “The society has failed to pay Rs 49.27 crore as per notices issued on December 5 and now we have started the proceeding as per I-T rules,” Gupta said. The property includes all flats, dining hall, satsang bhawan, physiotherapy centre, post office, bank building and shops located in the complex at P-4 Kasna road institutional area, Greater Noida.
  
  Meanwhile, the news of recovery notice has shocked the residents who are now planning to approach income tax authorities for relief on grounds that their residents’ welfare association (RWA) is registered in Noida and has nothing to do with the original society which was built in the group complex.
  
  RWA president Virendra Baliyal said: “The RWA was formed after the residents moved to the flats. It has a different PAN number and has nothing to do with the income tax violation committed by the original society (Senior Citizen Home Complex Welfare Society).”
  
  Baliyan added that the original society had constructed similar projects in Dehradun and has projects in other hill states too.
  
  He said, “Our name has been wrongly included in the I-T notice. The department should have included other properties owned or purchased by the old society in Dehradun and   in Gurugram.”
