AMBALA: Three out of the nine juveniles who had escaped from an   in   on Sunday have been traced by police. While one was tracked down on Monday, two others were caught on Tuesday. The escape of the nine juveniles have raised questions on the security arrangements in the observation home.

 The magisterial inquiry conducted by the sub-divisional magistrate ( ) of Ambala Satender Siwach suspects the involvement of three security guards, who were missing from their duty spot during the time of the incident. It was also found that out of the 12 CCTV cameras installed at the observation home, only three were working while others were incapable of recording or were lying defunct.
 
 The boys lodged in the juvenile home reportedly took advantage of the ladder, which was earlier being used by labourers nearby, and was later found in the observation home. They broke their barrack No. 2 and then scaled the 20-feet-high wall of the observation home. Despite the presence of four security guards, who used to remain present at the site besides warden and head warden, the boys succeeded in scaling the boundary wall and fled.
 
 “We have registered a case under Section 224 (obstruction by the person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code and probing the matter. We will also question the authorities of the juvenile home as well as the security guards. The biggest lapse was the availability of a ladder inside the home. A case will be registered against the authorities of the observation home if they are found guilty,” said, SP Ambala, Abhishek Jorwal.
 
 Sources revealed that three of the nine escapees are facing charges of murder, attempt to murder, rape. Out of the nine, two are booked under charges of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act while two are facing charges of theft.
 
 The observation home having a capacity of only 50 boys, had kept 122 at present. As a result of this, two inmates had to share a bed and in the recent past, following which there had been complaints of skin diseases.
 
 District programme officer   refused to comment over the matter. SDM of Ambala said, “In the preliminary investigation, we have found lack of efficacy on part of the authorities. There are big questions lying unanswered in this case. Four security guards used to remain present at the construction spot but three were missing and one of these claimed he was sleeping. The warden and the head warden besides a superintendent also remain present but all of them failed to notice the breaking of barrack by the escapees.”
 
 
