Chennai: On the back of growth in manufacturing, retail and FMCG, smaller towns are showing promise in the job market while major cities like Delhi, Bengaluru have seen slow growth, a survey said on Wednesday.

 Towns like Chandigarh, Kochi, Vadodara and Ahmedabad posted growth of 25%-45% from the year ago level as per the ‘Monster Employment Index’ which looks at online job posting activity. Major cities like Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad recorded slowest growth between 1% and 8%. Mumbai was the only tier-1 city to witness a double-digit growth at 18%.
 
 While the numbers may not be a benchmark for comparison given that these cities will have a small base, HR experts say recruitment is picking up in the smaller towns. 
 
 “It is not as if there is no talent demand in cities like Bengaluru or Delhi. Large corporates have pent up demand and are utilising their existing workforce better, hiring top notch talent,” said Aditya Narayan Mishra, CEO, Ciel HR Services.
 
 Mishra adds that companies in small towns are becoming ambitious with their plans. “For instance, Punjab-based Amber Enterprises went for an IPO early this year. Kashmir-based Sarveshwar Foods is looking at an IPO. These companies are investing in all areas including talent,” he said.
 
 Overall growth in sectors like manufacturing, retail and consumer durables has also favoured small towns. Ajay Shah, VP and head, recruitment services at Teamlease Services says growth in retail has much to do with the upbeat sentiment in recruitment in these towns. “With e-commerce, retail expansion in large metros is immaterial. Their opportunity to scale lies in smaller towns and cities now. With expansion, they will invest in people,” said Shah.
 
 For startups, smaller towns are ideal, he adds. “As a startup, they are looking at cost savings. Starting from office space to facilities and people, it is more affordable to launch a startup in a smaller town. And there is no dearth for talent,” said Shah.
 
 Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) grew 34% making it one of the strongest sectors according to the survey. “Government push with the likes of small finance banks is also creating demand. These banks have to set up branches in smaller towns and they will hire people,” he said.
 
 
