BHOPAL: A five-year-old girl was killed while three others were injured after a   (RGPV) hit their bike at   square on Thursday morning.

 According to police, the five-year-old girl Sana was the only child of her parents. Her father Noor Mohammed, a resident of Indra Sahayta Nagar near DIG Bungalow in Gautam Nagar locality, is a carpenter and runs a furniture shop near DIG Bungalow.
 
 Talking to TOI, Noor Mohammed said Sana was his only child and admitted to   recently. He said Sana along with her mother Rani Bi had gone to attend an engagement ceremony at their relative’s house at Bhouri village in Khajuri locality on Wednesday night.
 
 Rani Bi’s brother Siraj, a resident of Sukhisewania, decided to drop the mother-daughter duo to their house on his bike. He was accompanied by his eight-year-old son Shadab.
 
 Auto-rickshaw driver Iqbal Miyan, an eyewitness to the incident, said the incident took place around 8.45 am near Lalghati Square.
 
 As the bike negotiated a turn from Airport Road while heading towards Lalghati Square, a speeding bus of RGPV hit the vehicle from behind, he said. The bus had no students and only the driver and the conductor were in the bus.
 
 Siraj, Rani Bi and Shadab fell on the left side along with bike and hit the divider while Sana, who was sitting on her mother’s lap, fell towards right. She was crushed under the rear wheels of the bus as the driver tried to flee the spot. Sana died on the spot. Siraj, who was not wearing a helmet, fractured his nose. Shadab, a class III student, sustained bruises and fracture in left leg while Rani Bi sustained severe internal injuries.
 
 Enraged locals vandalised the bus and pelted stones breaking all its glass panels. They thrashed the accused driver and handed him over to Koh-e-Fiza police. SHO Koh-E-Fiza police station Anil Bajpai said that police seized the bus and arrested the errant driver Farman Khan (25), a resident of Rajeev Nagar Colony in Karond. A case was registered against him under relevant sections of IPC and Motor Vehicles Act.
 
