NAGPUR:Trustees of private English schools are planning an important meeting in city on January 20 to discuss issues related to Right to Education (RTE) free admissions. Independent English Schools Association (IESA) is spearheading an active campaign to seek answers from the government over pending   payments. 

 According to sources, the Nagpur meet will focus mostly on their decision to stop RTE admissions because of the government’s failure to reimburse entire fee amount. The RTE admission process for 2018-19 will start from January 24 and IESA has decided to act in a concrete manner to register their protest. 
 
 Rajendra Dayma, vice-president of IESA, told TOI that they have firmed up plans to drag the state government to court over RTE. “The legal team has already started the process to file a petition at the Aurangabad bench of Bombay court. The major issue is about pending payments and also for seeking protection against action by the education department in case we stop admissions,” said Dayma. 
 
 IESA’s proposed petition will focus on statistics from   district, which intend to prove that the education department has not been keeping its side of the bargain. 
 
 “As a sample study we have chosen Jalna schools and since the year RTE started, till date, schools here have received just 30% of their total dues. How are we to function in such a scenario because we don’t get any financial grant from the government? RTE admissions process has to work both ways. We admit students for free and provide quality education and the government reimburses us for that,” said Dayma. 
 
 IESA says their members are facing severe financial crisis because of the acute fee collection shortfall. 
 
 He added that the plan to go to court was the result of their patience wearing thin. “Since 2012 we have done nothing but take various delegations, meet politicians, held peaceful protests but nobody listened to us. Everything that was required to be done as a matter of protocol, we have done,” said Dayma.
 
  “There is no option left now but to approach the court and demand answers from the government. The government has been taking us for granted for a long time and in a democracy that’s not the right thing to do. We are all equal stakeholders and should be treated as such,” he added. 
 
 TOI recently exposed the forgery committed by various parents in Nagpur to secure free RTE admissions.
 
 
