BENGALURU: The SIT claims   Kumar T, the 38-year-old from Maddur who they suspect had ferried the killer of journalist and activist  , has confessed to having arranged a target practice camp for four men in July 2017. The four men, sources in the SIT claim, are from right wing organizations based outside Karnataka.

 In his statement to the police, Naveen said a friend from Mangaluru had requested him to arrange the training camp. He was told it was “for a big mission”. The four men met Naveen at his residence in Maddur near Mandya in mid-July.
 
 “They came in a Maruti Omini,” sources said. “After picking up Naveen, the five of them travelled in the same vehicle to a forested area between Kollegal and Chamarajanagar. There, the four men practised firing at a target with a country-made pistol. They practised long and short range shots and from different angles.”
 
 Practice sessions went on till the third week of August, sources said. “Locals, who saw Naveen and the four men at Kollegal, have identified him,” police sources said. “They said the four men conversed in Hindi and Naveen helped translate when required.”
 
 SIT sources say a man from Mysuru had filed a statement with a Bengaluru magistrate claiming that he too was part of the camp. Sources claim that Naveen had roped in the local man to help with the camp.
 
 Sources also claim the SIT had laid elaborate plans to nab the four killers at a wedding in Udupi on February 25 last week. “We had formed four special teams, each comprising 15 men,” an SIT officer said. “Three teams were positioned in and around the marriage hall while the fourth team was deployed at the railway station. However, the four men did not turn up. It indicates that they were aware that we are on to them.”
 
 SIT sources now say that it is clear Gauri’s killers did not stay in or around RR Nagar as investigators had initially suspected.
 
 “They roamed roam around the city on two-wheelers arranged by Naveen,” sources said. “Naveen also showed them Gauri’s office and residence. He and others took care to select roads that had few or no CCTV cameras.”
 
 BOX
 
 Mysurean was first target?
 
 SIT sources said Naveen Kumar had made enquires for the address and other details of a Mysuru-based rationalist, months before to the killing of Gauri Lankesh. “A man from Mysuru, who was acquainted with Naveen, was assigned the job,” SIT sources said. “The man visited the residence of the rationalist and reported to Naveen that there were armed police at the residence round the clock. On hearing about the presence of policemen, Naveen told the boy not to visit the rationalist’s residence anymore.” 
 
 
