NAVI MUMBAI: Commuters using   railway station are inconvenienced due to the haphazard parking of vehicles inside the railway complex parking lot, which hasn't been thrown open to the public yet. 

 Two-wheelers are parked anywhere in the area even though designated parking has not begun. They also park along the roads that lead to the station. cause the most problem as the owners park them anyhow and anywhere, blocking all movement to other commuter. At times, vehicles are parked right up to the ticket counter inside the railway premises. 
 
 So, when commuters rush to reach the station, they have to first juggle through all the parked vehicles and then reach the platform. At times, by doing this, some commuters miss their train. Commuters find it difficult to stand in the queue to buy tickets as well. Despite all these problems, the railway's have floated many tenders for the operation of the parking lot. But no contractor has come forth yet to run the space, causing a lot of problems to commuters. 
 
 Even though the officials have put up a 'no parking' signboard at the parking lot, motorists have turned a blind eye to it and continue to park right under the it. 
 
 In order to solve the parking problem around the station area, the railways had started a parking system few years ago. However, it did not find too many takers. Many motorcyclists have alleged that they have been overcharged to use the pay and park area. So, they park in the no-parking zone. "At the railway parking lot, the officials charge Rs 6 for 12 hours. But we end up paying more than the tariff. So we park our vehicles outside the parking area," said  , a biker.
 
 Meanwhile, railway officials claim that they have not come across parking problems in the area. "We have not received any complaint from commuters about inconvenience caused due to haphazard parking of motorcycles, both inside and outside the railway premises. We have staff parking slots which sometimes are encroach upon by bikers. We are waiting for a contractor to take over the parking lot so that it can be managed in a systematic way, but in vain," said a railway official from Panvel station. 
 
 Two-wheelers are parked anywhere in the area even though designated parking has not begun. They also park along the roads that lead to the station. cause the most problem as the owners park them anyhow and anywhere, blocking all movement to other commuter. At times, vehicles are parked right up to the ticket counter inside the railway premises
 
 
