GHAZIABAD: A   hurtling at 100kmph down the wrong side of Newari Road knocked her down. In an attempt to flee, the   ran over her face.

 Five months since Mamta Rani became the victim of sheer disregard for the road rules in  , her family in Bihar’s Chapra city is yet to come to terms with her death at the prime of youth. 
 
 The 22-year-old student of Divya Jyoti College of Dental Sciences was the second of three siblings and her parents had pinned their hopes on her to bring them out of poverty.
 
 If her death wasn’t enough, what has pained Mamta’s family all the more is that the errant driver, Ghaziabad resident Dharampal, has walked out on bail. Her father Shrikant Kumar said they hadn’t got a single penny as compensation, as the driver did not bother to get the third party insurance done for his car.
 
 “It was not an accident but murder. Her loss is irreparable. What bothers me more is that police chose to slap lenient sections against the accused. Dharampal was booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC, which are bailable offences. He should have been instead charged with murder,” said Kumar, a stenographer at Chhapra civl court.
 
 Mamta was on hospital duty on November 29 last year and needed some medicines for a patient. While crossing the Newari Road to go to a pharmacy on the other side, a speeding Santro being driven down the wrong lane hit her from the side. By the time the car screeched to a halt, she had been dragged a few metres by the bonnet. Dharampal tried to flee a group of Mamta’s friends rushing towards the spot and ran over her face.
 
 “The face was crushed beyond recognition. The Santro had been speeding down the road at almost 100kmph. No passerby was ready to help us take her to the hospital. We somehow managed a vehicle ourselves and were taking her to hospital when she died on the way,” said Ziya Shah (24), a final-year student of the dental college who had lodged the police complaint.
 
 Mamta’s friends said that she was a bright student and would perform well in her internal exams. For a few days following her death, students had boycotted the classes in protest against the accident. On Monday, the students said that the traffic situation had changed little and drivers still had the same disregard for road rules.
 
 Mamta’s father said it was difficult for him to keep track of the case, which is being heard by a Ghaziabad court. “I have a family to run. From Chhapra, it is just not possible to keep track of the court proceedings. I hope my daughter will get justice someday,” he said over the phone.
 
 Police declined to comment on the matter. “The case is sub-judice. We should not make any comments at this stage,” said Ravinder Singh, station house officer (SHO) of Newari police station.
 
 
