PATIALA: One fine morning in February last month, at the famous   in Kingston, Jamaica, India’s budding sprinter  , 17, was getting ready for his routine training drill. Coach Glen Mills was setting up the field for a short 30m sprint followed by a full throttle 100m dash, when a 6 ft 4 tall Jamaican wearing a white t-shirt, denim shorts and a black cap walked in at the   facility.

 
 For a few seconds, there was a collective disbelief among the assembled trainees upon seeing the lanky athlete. But soon, the trainees ran towards the person whom the whole world loves and admires as ‘sprint king’,  . Yes, it was Bolt, in flesh and blood, the winner of eight Olympics gold medals and arguably the greatest sprinter of all time.
 
 Bolt had taken some time off from his schedule to meet the trainees and one among them was Delhi’s very own Nisar, a self-confessed fan of the sprint legend. Nisar’s joy knew no bounds as he hugged, chatted and clicked photos with Bolt. “It was literally a dream come true for me,” Nisar told TOI.
 
 “I can’t believe my luck that I was actually meeting king Bolt in flesh and blood. To chat with him and click photos was a surreal feeling. I couldn’t ask for more,” added Nisar, son of a rickshaw puller from Bada Bagh slum in Delhi’s Azadpur area.
 
 Nisar was among the 14 promising athletes selected to undergo a month-long training camp in February at the world-famous Racers Club, home to Bolt and his coach Mills. 
 
 Nisar, who has been rewriting under-16 national records in 100m at different meets with excellent sub-11 timings since September last year, recalled his day out with Bolt and the inspiring message he shared with the trainees. Nisar also met another sprint great,  . 
 
 “Bolt said I am recording good timings in my age category and that I need to improve on my technique to become a successful international sprinter. Similarly, Blake said my running is good, I have speed and advised me to continue the hard work,” said Nisar, who proudly showed his spikes signed both by Bolt and Blake.
 
