MANGALURU: Despite increase in life-style diseases, only 3% of workers are worried about their future health since majority of it is hardly able to spare resources beyond meeting their daily needs and the absence of any affordable health services provided by corporates to majority of its employees, reveals  .

 It further reveals that 48% of such a staff is “sometime fearful” about their future health and 37% are “not at all fearful” and remaining 12% are totally ignorant for their future health conditions. This is indicative of the fact that health care has yet to draw desired attention as well as sensitivities for wage earners”, says  ,   Secretary General.
 
 Quoting findings of the survey, Rawat said that in terms of physical fitness, 37% of corporate employees surveyed by ASSOCHAM team said, that they hardly have any time to exercise. While 25% said that they do physical workout devoting less than one hour a week. 24% of such employees said that they exercise for 1-3 hours a week although 9% of employees said that they exercise for 3-6 hours a week. It is only 5% of corporate employees who regularly exercise for more than 6 hours a week to keep physical fit and mentally agile.
 
 In the survey, over 500 corporate employees were interviewed between age ranging between age group ranging 25 to 50 in 18 broad sectors, which include infrastructure, power, media, telecom, advertisement, manufacturing, IT/ITeS, financial services and engineering. Other sectors include market research, management,  , food and beverages, textiles etc.
 
 On the issue of whether health problem discourage corporate employee, 48% responded by saying that they were discouraged by their health problem in doing various activities, while 40% replied that they were not at all `discouraged’ by their health conditions.
 
 It was only 11% of the employee who felt that most of the time, they dare discouraged in conducting work and only 1% of the employees felt that they were highly discouraged by their health problems.
 
 14% of respondents experience workplace fatigue but they still believe themselves to be in `good health’, while 10% of total corporate employees consider their health condition to be poor without perceiving to have `no diseases at all’. 9% and 5% of the sample population suffer problem of sleeping disorder.
 
 Other findings of the Survey include that among the IT/ITeS sector employees, 93 per cent feel that company sponsored wellness program act as a motivating factor for them. However 7 per cent feel depressed about the  .
 
 Employees engaged in media sector, 60 per cent consider wellness program as a motivating factor, whereas remaining 40 per cent feel that it acts as a depressing factor. Survey respondents engaged in FMCG sector, for 75 per cent of the employees it act as a motivating factor.
 
 For 84 per cent of employees, companies sponsored wellness program acts as a motivating factor, but 16 per cent of the respondents in the sector feel it as a de-motivating factor. In rest of the sectors 100 per cent of the employees consider company sponsored wellness program act as a motivating factor for them.
 
