KOLKATA: The price of dressed   has nosedived in all 46 municipal markets across the city, including New Market, which traders see as a direct consequence of the carcass-meat and dead-chicken scares.

 A kilo of dressed chicken — which used to cost around Rs 175 at New Market before the carcass-meat and dead-chicken stories broke almost simultaneously—was selling at Rs 120 a kilo on Friday. Ditto at the Kudghat market, where a kilo of dressed chicken cost Rs 110 on Friday, a precipitous drop from the normal price of Rs 175. But there’s only one condition: a customer would have to buy the whole bird.
 
 
 
  
 
 “What do we do? The times are hardly normal,” New Market chicken seller Md Aslam said. “We have kept this one condition—of buyers having to take one whole bird—as selling pieces of chicken has become very difficult, with the dead-chicken controversy so fresh in public memory,” he added.
 
 Aslam, who has been selling chicken for a decade-and-a-half in New Market, says he never saw such a huge drop even during the 2008 avian flu scare. 
 
 Aslam said: “The   food inspectors have banned sale of chicken in portions in the municipal markets. So we must sell whole chicken. This has added to the sharp fall in demand.”
 
 Mintu Karmakar, a chicken seller in Kudghat, said, “The price drop has taken us by surprise. It happened only two days back. We sell a branded poultry chicken and sold dressed chicken at Rs 180 per kg even on Wednesday morning. This morning I’m selling it at Rs 110 per kg.”
 
 The stories of carcasses being sold off as processed meat and dead chicken being passed off as fresh broiler meat have taken their toll on the market, said Sudip Dhar, a chicken seller at Manicktala Market. “The price drop has been sudden. We barely make a profit now,” Dhar said.
 
 According to the sellers, road-side eateries and restaurants form the bulk of their customers. “But they hardly turn up now,” said Aslam. 
 
 Madan Maity, general secretary of West Bengal Poultry Federation, admits there is a sharp drop in dressed whole  , but expects a correction soon. “They are selling at Rs 120 per kg in most Kolkata markets,” he said.
 
 Confident of a self-correction in the prices, Maity claimed, “In Kolkata and the outskirts, there is a demand for 33 lakh kg of chicken per week. But we are selling only 22lakh kg-25 lakh kg. Once sales pick up, there will be a price correction.” He said the carcass scare has caused a trust deficit between the buyers and the sellers.
 
 A KMC inspector said, “Raids conducted according to Food Safety and Standards Authority of India guidelines will continue. We have made it clear that for chicken, live birds must be slaughtered in front of the customers and sold.” 
 
 According to federation sources, production cost of poultry works out to Rs 82 per kg. The supply chain to the local seller ensures an incremental rise in costs by over Rs 30-Rs 40 per kg. The Rs 110-Rs 120 cost now leaves the chicken sellers with no profit margin.
 
