TIRUNELVELI: A 37-year-old government employee allegedly committed suicide by hanging in his house on Saturday. His family members have alleged torture by higher-ups as the reason behind his suicide, as he has been complaining about it for about a month. 

 Police said that Muthumalai, a resident of Thiruvadi Street in  , lost his father Chellaiah when he was just seven years old and was raised by his mother Esakiammal, 60. Since Chellaiah was employed with the government,   got a government job on compassionate grounds 15 years ago, after completing his diploma. He was working as a draftsman in the survey department in the collectorate and used to complain of pressure and torture by his higher-ups.
 
 His family told TOI that though he did not blame anyone for the alleged torture he used to tell them that he wanted to end his life. Muthumalai’s mother and his wife  , 33, had even advised him to quit the job. 
 
 The victim’s cousin Lakshmi Arun told police that Muthumalai was a very reserved person and never used to share his personal or professional life with friends and family. “This made it difficult for us to give him any support. We did not expect things to go so far,” he lamented.
 
 Around 8am on Saturday, Muthumalai went to the first floor of his house to brush his teeth. As he did not come down for close to half-an-hour his wife went up to remind him to get ready as they had to go to a hospital to administer vaccine for their three-month-old girl baby. When she went there, she found her husband hanging from the ceiling fan using his dhoti. After being alerted, emergency rescue services staff tried to give him first aid, but in vain. His body was then taken to the   and Hospital (TVMCH) for postmortem.
 
 Seeking the arrest of those responsible for his suicide, Muthumalai’s family and members of the Vishwakarma Viduthalai Iyakkam staged a demonstration fore nearly two hours before the TVMCH and refused to collect his body. They also sought a government job on compassionate grounds for Gomathi as she has to shoulder the responsibilities of bringing up the infant and taking care of Esakiammal.
 
 Palayamkottai police assured to take necessary action on the issue, following which the family received the body from the hospital around 4.45pm to perform the final rites.
 
 Collector Sandeep Nanduri said the deceased was not a field staff but was stationed at the district head office of the department and comes under the purview of the additional director of the survey department. Stating that chances of torture sounded remote, the collector said that an inquiry will be conducted if the family raises suspicion and gives a representation to the district administration.
 
 Sources said Muthumalai got had married to Gomathi 10 years ago but the couple did not have children till three months ago when they had a girl child. The mother and child were living in her parent’s place in Tuticorin. Only this week, Muthumalai had brought them to Tirunelveli.
 
 
