MANGALURU:   district was sanctioned four Maulana Azad model schools at Kallapu, Kudroli, Bantwal and Puttur.

 Though they started functioning last year, they were not able attract enough students, as they were sanctioned a month after commencement of the academic year. However, this year, the district minority welfare department has been promoting these four schools, where Muslim, Christian, Jain, Buddhist and Sikh students are benefited with free English-medium education. The school offers free education from class six to SSLC.
 
 The government had announced in the 2017-2018 budget about starting 100 Maulana Azad model schools across the State, in which Dakshina Kannada district got four such schools.
 
 “Last year, we couldn’t attract many students to these schools, but this year we are trying to fill all the seats,” said Usman A, officer, district Minority Welfare Department, while speaking to TOI.
 
 He said each class can admit 60 candidates. Around 75 per cent seats are reserved for students from minority communities like Muslims, Christians, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs and Parsis. Apart from this, 25% seats will be reserved for SC/ST students. Girl students will get 50% reservation in each class.
 
 Beneficiaries will be provided with free English-medium education, books, uniforms, mid-day meals and all other government facilities.
 
 Children will be admitted to class 6. Urdu schools, which have less number of students enrolled, and have adequate infrastructure, have been selected to house the new schools. Usman said only the   in Puttur is operating in a rented building of Kallega mosque.
 
 “We have made elaborate preparations this year, and several parents have come forward to admit their children in the model schools,” added Usman.
 
 Locations of Maulana Azad model schools
 
 Urdu Higher Primary School, Kallapu, Contact: 9449080150
 
 Urdu Higher Primary School, Kudroli, Contact: 9741671331
 
 Urdu Higher Primary School, Moolarpatna Contact: 8970707858
 
 Kallega Mosque Building, Puttur, Contact: 7829892702.
 
 
