CHANDIGARH: The Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind   at a two-hour meeting in Delhi on Sunday managed to convince half of the party's 20 legislators in   that his decision to apologise to   leader Bikram Majithia was the right one. 

 However, Punjab leader of opposition   and nine other AAP MLAs did not attend the meeting. There was no confirmation on the fate of resignations of Punjab unit president   and co-president Aman Arora, but they were unlikely to be accepted by the party's central leadership. 
 
 The MLAs, who attended the Kejriwal meeting, put the onus of taking action against any politician accused of patronizing drug trade on chief minister Amarinder Singh.
 
 They insisted that there was no split in the party and things had changed after Kejriwal has shared his mind with them. 
 
 AAP MLAs Baljinder Kaur (Talwandi Sabo) and Kultar Singh (Kotkapura), talking to the media after the meeting, said they understood Kejriwal’s decision despite their initial disappointment about the apology. “It was a strategic decision and we understand it,” said Kaur.
 
 Kejriwal gave his explanation on two issues — the Majithia apology and the Punjab unit’s grouse that it was not taken into confidence on the issue. “He pointed out that he was tied up in litigation for 33 cases in 22 courts across the country and hearings for these take up almost 20 days in a month. Most cases have been fast-tracked and this was taking a toll on governance in Delhi. Nevertheless, the fight against drugs will continue in Punjab,” said Sunam MLA Aman Arora, who attended the meeting.
 
 When some MLAs, according to sources, sought to know why they had not been consulted, Kejriwal agreed “there had been a lack of communication with the Punjab unit, which should not have happened.”
 
 There were reports of some aggressive counselling by senior Punjab AAP leaders considered loyal to the high command, to ensure that a sizeable number of Punjab MLAs attend the meeting convened by Delhi deputy CM and party incharge of Punjab Manish Sisodia at his residence.
 
 Before leaving for the meeting, a number of MLAs met Khaira in Chandigarh and pointed out that even though they were against the apology, they wanted to hear Kejriwal’s explanation. They attended the Delhi meeting although it had been “decided” at the Friday meeting in Chandigarh that in line with the demand for more autonomy, the Delhi leadership should come to Chandigarh for the prescheduled meeting.
 
 Incidentally, two of those present at the Kejriwal meeting — Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh and chief spokesperson Harjot Bains — had accused Khaira of trying to split the party. Kultar had said on Saturday that Khaira and other MLAs had won election in the name of Arvind Kejriwal.
 
 On Friday, LIP MLA Simarjit Singh Bains had alleged that the AAP MLAs loyal to the party’s central leadership were against the idea of having a separate party in Punjab and had dithered on some excuse when the idea was discussed.
 
 Apart from the three MLAs who had stayed away from the second meeting on Friday to decide on the proposal for breaking away from the central unit, seven others joined in to attend the Delhi meeting.
 
 The meeting was attended by 10 MLAs, including Rupinder Kaur Ruby, Sarabjit Kaur Manuke and Budh Ram, besides five zone presidents and chief spokesperson Harjot Bains. Prominent among those who stayed away included Khaira, Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu and Dakha MLA HS Phoolka.
 
 
 
