AGARTALA: After facing its biggest humiliation at the hands of BJP in   on Saturday,   is determined to re-mould itself to match the present situation and win back lost ideological ground. CPM, which has ruled here for 25 years and yet suffered defeat at the hands of a relatively new entity in the state, feels that the younger generation, which lacks ideological convictions, were swept away by temporary benefits offered by BJP in the run-up to the polls. 

 State CPM secretary Bijan Dhar told TOI that the Left will continue to play its political role as the opposition. "We will support the government as long as its activities are pro-people. We will oppose all its anti-people, communal and non-democratic policies." 
 
 "At the moment the major problem is the large scale violence that has taken place after the counting. We have received information from almost every subdivision that our offices have been destroyed and burnt down, shops have been attacked and even homes of Left workers have been attacked. We have taken up these matters with the interim higher authorities but no one is taking any action," Dhar said.
 
 Dhar, who is also the convenor of the  , said RSS ideology still has a long to go before it is embraced in the state. "I don't think the mandate reflects any influence of RSS ideology. It was the unity of all anti-Left forces that went against us. RSS has a long way to go but they will try to expand their footprint."
 
 "Our political line, organizational activities and movements will continue. First we have to identify if we need to bring any changes to conform to present society, and if yes, what we need to do to make the changes. There is nothing permanent in this world," he said.
 
 Dhar said losing its loyal tribal base has cost the party dearly and the party needs to examine carefully why its most trusted people rejected them this time. "Primary analysis tell us that   has been forgotten due to lack of ideological conviction. For the last 20 years, when extremists ruled these tribal areas, it was difficult for anyone to carry out political activities here. After the situation drastically changed and peace prevailed, organization after organizations have set up their bases here," he said.
 
 Dhar said Left's defeat can be attributed to a decrease in the age of the electorate. He said, "Older people have died and the new generation has come up. The older generation was known for its integrity and the new generation is driven by individual thoughts which are superficial." He also criticized the new generation of Left leaders, who according to him, have not yet cultivated camaraderie with society at large.
 
 
