SURAT:   on Wednesday arrested one person in connection with the   worth Rs 1.56 crore from a   in Athwalines on February 9. Accused Sainulla Zuman Dewan (35), a resident of Ghodasahan village in east Champaran of  , was arrested from his village.

 Police said he was member of the gang of eight that looted the showroom. It is also believed that other members of the gang have already escaped to Nepal with the stolen material.
 
 Dewan was nabbed by a team of crime branch on February 17 that reached Motihari district soon after the theft and were camping there. Dewan works as a butcher near Ghodasahan railway station. He was earlier arrested from Delhi’s Khanpur area for a theft five years ago, the police said. 
 
 Wrist watches of top brands worth Rs 1.56 crore and Rs 6 lakh cash was stolen from Anjan Watches and Anjan Helios showroom at Anjan Shalakha complex in Athwalines. 
 
 The accused was nabbed following specific information about the gang’s movement in the city. They had come in an autorickshaw from Surat railway station to the showroom and returned back to railway station in another autorickshaw.
 
 “The burglars arrived in the city five days before executing the crime. They were moving in different parts to identify location to target after which they finalized this showroom,” assistant commissioner of police, Surat, R R Sarvaiya said.
 
 The accused informed the police that Harindar, Saraj Ansari, Vinod, Ladu Kishore Kalwar, Ranjit Sonar, Vikas Sonar and Dinesh Sonar were part of the gang that stole the valuables. Of them Harindar, Saraj Ansari and Ranjit Sonar went to Nepal to sell the stolen material.
 
 The accused first arrived in Bhusaval from Patna and reached city after changing a train. They stayed at railway station for five days and after the loot returned to Patna. On receiving specific information about involvement of the gang, police tracked them and kept an eye on the movement of their members during which one member was nabbed, the police said.
 
 
