PATNA: As the summer vacations begin in city schools, several private schools have taken initiatives to train teachers by organizing capacity building  .

 The Centre of Excellence (CoE) under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has been conducting four training sessions at DY Patil Pushpalata Patil International School,  , Open Minds A Birla School, Kankarbagh and St Anne’s High School in the first phase for its affiliated schools in Patna.
 
 A training programme in ‘Prospective resource person in Hindi’ held at St Anne’s High School on Friday was attended by 60 city schools. The resource person for the programme was Akhilesh Kumar, who talked about new techniques of teaching methodology and reflective teaching and action research. “Enhancing teacher quality is a key element in improving school education and promoting students’ development,” Akhilesh said.
 
 The CoE has planned more training sessions on classroom management, teaching skills, prospective resource programme in various subjects. Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said the CBSE sends resource person from time to time to give training to teachers.
 
 “It is hard to find well-qualified teachers. So, it is important for schools to organize training sessions for teachers and to update them about teaching technology and changes in curriculum,” said Rubina Hansda, principal of Christ Church Diocesan School.
 
 DAV group schools and Kendriya Vidyalayas also conduct the training-teaching programmes individually. Principal of DAV Public School BSEB, VS Ojha said, “During summer vacations, the   organizes training programme for teachers, which aims to equip teachers with skills like classroom management, activity based learning, problem-solving approach, individualized learning and student assessment with this initiative.”
 
 St Michael’s High School would also conduct the training programme for teachers in June. Headmistress of Primary wing, Vishakha Sinha, said every month, the school conducts an assessment programme for teachers and discuss the progress report of individual teachers. “Such assessments help teachers understand their weaknesses and strengths in teaching skill,” Vishakha said.
 
 
