BHOPAL: Cop were out on streets, displaying high degree of alertness after public outrage over gang-rape of a civil service aspirant in the heart of the city a couple of months ago. There was a sense of urgency and the way cops went about stopping and questioning, citizens found it quite reassuring, forcing anti-socials to lie low. Those were the days when cops could be seen moving around in city’s prime commercial hub MP Nagar or posh Area Colony or Link Road No. 1 at any time of the day and night. 

 That was the time when   comprising women cops appeared to be on the move—patrolling roads, going to schools and colleges to give girls lessons in self-defence and make them aware what they could do if they were stalked or whom they should contact. But it proved short-lived. As the dust settled down, cops again got busy registering FIRs.
 
 It went on for quite some days before it was business as usual. Barely after passing of a month, the same slackness in patrolling every part of the city was on full display. But a fresh incident — molestation of two bike-borne sisters on busy   on Friday night by drunk youths— brought the issue back in focus. The girls were stalked by a gang of bike-borne goons from Pragati Petrol Pump to Veer Sawarkar over-bridge — a stretch of 3 km around midnight. Though the area comes under two police stations — MP Nagar and Habibganj — there was no cop or police van in sight. The girls registered FIR in   police station. 
 
 That the incident took place in the area which hums with activities well past midnight. Bars, hotels, restaurants, pan kiosks in MP Nagar Zone, Zone I, II remain crowded even during odd hours. Besides, the area is home to   state headquarters, which sees VIP movement day in and day out. 
 
 When   took over as a home minister after the BJP government rode to power for the third time in the state, he had made the statement police in Bhopal were not seen on roads and exhorted them to come out of thanas and take to streets so that people get a feeling of safety. 
 
 Talking to TOI on Sunday, he said “Police patrolling is necessary in the city, but it’s not as regular as it should be. Police should identify major spots where footfall of females is maximum and a permanent police force should be deployed there.”
 
 DIG  , however, said, “Patrolling, which started after gang-rape incident has not stopped. Sometimes, there could be constraints like vehicle not being available or manpower not being available. But we have been working for intensive patrolling in sensitive areas, including MP Nagar, TT Nagar and areas having educational institutes.”
 
 Besides, an awareness programme continues, he said. “We started a campaign wherein Shakti Squad visits at least two schools every day where they conduct awareness session and provide defence training to girl students.”
 
 Chaudhary said, “I have personally asked station house officers (SHOs) to conduct checking from 11 to 12 in night where chances of catching anti-social elements is high. For greater impact, a joint checking in areas under three police station has been initiated so that accused don’t find a way to escape.”
 
