MYSURU: He is busy campaigning in North Karnataka, but there certainly appears to be no letdown in the intensity of the contest in Chamundeshwari, where actors Jayamala and ‘Mukyamanthri’ Chandru canvassed for the Cm on Wednesday.

 However, it was not all hunky-dory for Jayamala, who faced a few tough questions from labourers at Ekalavyanagar, who are still upset with the closure of a major factory in Metagalli Industrial Area. The labourers questioned why the CM had sided with the factory management when they had sought his intervention. Police had to intervene to ease the tension.
 
  campaigned in Chamundeshwari segment for 10 days visiting all villages, before heading to the northern parts of the state. The CM is contesting the assembly election from Badami constituency as well. While zilla panchayat member Rakesh Papanna is handling day-to-day affairs of the CM’s campaign in Chamundeshwari, Siddaramaiah’s son  , who is contesting the election from Varuna, is supervising all activities.
 
 Chandru and Jayamala were joined by writer Marulasiddappa, social activist Pa Mallesh and KS Shivaramu. They started off from the statue of BR Ambedkar at Town Hall, before heading to the villages within the Siddalingapura gram panchayat.
 
 “The CM will win the segment by a huge margin given his achievements and clean image. He has worked very hard to uplift the poor and downtrodden,” Jayamala said.
 
 Actor Yash too entered the political fray, campaigning for BJP’s Krishnaraja candidate SA Ramadas. However, Yash is not restricting himself to a single party, but campaigning for candidates cutting across party lines. In KR Nagar segment, he campaigned for the JD(S) candidate Sa Ra Mahesh. Yash said that he was backing the individual candidates and not the parties. “I will campaign for those candidates who are pro-people, and easily accessible. I have no plans to join politics,” he said.
 
 CM’s daughter-in-law campaigns
 
 Siddaramaiah’s daughter-in-law Smitha, wife of the CM’s late son   too campaigned for him in Chamundeshwari on Wednesday. “This is the first time she has campaigned for the CM,” Congress sources told TOI.
 
 Smitha visited Giridarshini, where she urged people to support her father-in-law. In a campaign that lasted more than two hours, she interacted with the people, and tried to keep away from the media.
 
 
