KOLKATA: Thursday was   and Friday Holi, the calendar showed. But ask Prosen Halder from   or Salt Lake’s Agnisnato Sarbadhicari, they were two days of uninterrupted fun. What’s the point in sticking to age-old idea that Dol is only for Bengalis and Holi for “north Indians”? The times they are a changin’ and the festival of colours is universal in its appeal, they argue.

 On Friday, Class VIII student Prosen insisted that he has had more fun playing with colours on Holi than on Thursday’s Dol. His para friend – Abhishek Roy – had come down from Mumbai on Thursday to take part in the revelry. “Once our faces are smeared with colours, nobody bothers to discriminate between Bengalis and non-Bengalis. It’s all about collective enjoyment,” Halder insisted before joining his seniors at the Bhai Bhai Sangha in Kasba.
 
 At the Kusum Kumari grounds, there was another group of Bengali revellers. Suparna Naiya, a Class XII student, has her Board exams just round the corner. “But I celebrated both Dol and Holi. At Shyam mandir, I see non-Bengalis celebrating Holi and I didn’t want to miss out on the fun,” she admitted.
 
 Like Suparna, Sarbadhicari was another willing “victim” of peer pressure to play Holi. On Thursday itself, the four-year old had announced that he would play Holi too. “My father and I played with him. We played more on Friday than on Thursday,” said his mother Anindita.
 
 The Rajarhat campus of Future Hope — a charitable organisation — never looked this colourful before. Samarjit Guha, its operations director, celebrated Holi with slum kids and foreign guests. Their celebrations ended with a sumptuous Bengali lunch. “We celebrated on Friday because we were keen to be a part of national celebrations. Also, we wanted to show international rugby players, who will take part in a tournament here, what Holi was all about,” Guha said.
 
  With Whatsapp wishes constantly reminding Kolkatans about how the celebrations in the rest of India, they don’t want to be left behind. While Kali Puja celebrations for Bengalis now spills over to Diwali, Dol Utsav too trickles down to Holi. The fire crackers and colours are never exhausted in one-day celebrations. Sociologist Prasanta Ray insists that the Bengali middle class has undergone a shift in character. “They have lost their earlier inhibitions. Their fun time has increased and so have their mode of celebratory dances,” he said.
 
 Ray doesn’t ignore the Hindutwa dimension in this shift too. With BJP using the Hindutwa angle, local politicians don’t want to keep a “secular pretence” anymore and are giving a “religious undertone” to the festival of colours too.
 
 According to Sudipto Chatterjee, former professor in Cultural Studies at Centre for Studies in the Social Sciences, this trend results from both a “demographic shift” and the changing shape of the “Indian democracy”. “Now, there is a hegemonic coercion of North Indian culture as the expression of the dominant national culture. Ethnic senses of belonging are being blurred out to a large extent,” said Chatterjee, adding that this change has both sides. While some are seeing it in a positive light, a section of Bengalis apprehensive of a cultural threat are even against circulation of ‘Happy Holi’ messages. “They fear that their regional ethnicity would be homogenized into one national culture. This, they feel, is a form of ethnic cleansing which comes at the price of nation building,” Chatterjee added.
 
