The episode of   starts with   asking Neelu about the pasta that she had made for Pihu. Neelu and Ishita are unable to find it, just then   walks in eating the same pasta. Ishita tells Neelu they will have to make new pasta.

 Simmi cries and starts her drama. She calls everyone out and tells Mrs Bhalla that she ate the paste made for Pihu by mistake and now Ishita is taunting her for the same.
 
 Mrs Bhalla shouts at Ishita saying she is doing this as she doesn’t want Simmi in this house. Mrs Bhalla asks   to interfere, but he goes away saying don’t include me in this. Later in the evening, Raman comes and asks Neelu to tell everyone to gather in the living area. He says that Simmi and   have done a lot for this house and he doesn’t want Ishita to taunt them. He asks Param and Simmi to move out in a different flat that he has bought for them in the same building. Simmi and Param get shocked and Ishita smiles. 
 
 Simmi gets furious and starts throwing things in room. She looks for Param’s gun so that she can shoot Ishita but Param calms her down. Ishita comes and teases them saying they will now have to leave the house. Meanwhile,   calls Ishita and asks her to come to police station. Ishita asks Raman to come with her, but he refuses. She says it is about Ruhi and he immediately agress. Ishita asks him to get the car meanwhile she takes this important call. She purposely makes Simmi hear that they are going to meet a lawyer. Simmi gets worried where Ishita must have taken Raman.
 
 Raman and Ishita meet Shagun and Ishita informs that Nikhil knows who kidnapped Pihu and he’s going to give testimony. They go to meet Nikhil just then Nikhil is rushed to a hospital as another inmate attacked him in the jail. Ishita says Param must have done this. Raman gets angry and says why is she always after Param and Simmi he leaves for the meeting. 
 
 Param meets Ishita and tells her he already knew about her plan. He saw Shagun meeting Nikhil and telling she will expose them today. He tells her next time to use her brain before making plans. Now, they will get no evidence. Ishita gets a call from Adi who asks her to attend the meeting. Raman gets a call when he is in the meeting and is tensed. Ishita says they will postpone the meeting and everyone leaves. Ishita asks Raman about the call and he informs her that the cops called to tell him that Nikhil survived and he wants to tell him something. 
 
 They leave for the police station and Param overhears their conversation. Param reaches hospital to kill Nikhil. He removes his oxygen mask and tells Nikhil that he doesn’t need him anymore. While Param is trying to kill Nikhil, Raman and Ishita enter the room. 
 
