PANAJI: Goa won’t change for anyone or anything. Since the start of the   ( ), not everything has gone right for Goa. There were bumps along the way, some criticism and shambolic defending, yet coach Sergio Lobera continued to stress on the importance of playing attacking football.

 
 Lobera’s forward march has made Goa the most attacking side with 42 goals in 18 matches and taken them to the semifinals. It’s tricky from here, particularly with the introduction of the away goals rule but Lobera is determined to continue with his philosophy against rivals Chennaiyin in the first leg at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday. “We understand the importance of the away goal but this rule will not make us change our style of play. In the last game against Jamshedpur, even when a draw was sufficient for us we didn’t play for a draw and went for a win. The team must continue with the same mentality. I think the last three games we got some very good numbers in terms of the goals we scored and conceded and I think this is the way we continue,” said Lobera.
 
 Goa’s attacking strength could not break through the strong Chennaiyin defence when they last played at Fatorda. Chennaiyin walked away with a 1-0 victory, leaving fans disappointed.
 
 Nobody in Goa can forget the 2015 final when the visitors dramatically struck late to win the trophy.
 
 The Gaurs however, look much better prepared now. They have scored 22 of their 42 goals at home with   (18) and Manuel Lanzarote (12) leading the way. Chennaiyin, though, will feel confident that they can get another important result here. They have done well on the road, winning against all the three semifinalists. History backs them too. On the nine occasions they have faced Goa, Chennaiyin have won five times, leaving Goa to celebrate four times.
 
 “FC Goa are a very free-scoring team. They have lots of attacking options. We need to be at our best. If you can get an away goal it certainly gives you a big advantage and we hope to get at least one,” said Chennaiyin head coach John Gregory. Unlike Goa, who rely on the strength of their forwards – Coro and Lanzarote – Chennaiyin’s forwards have not fired. Leading goal-getter   (7) has gone without scoring in five games, although the coach said he has little to worry with 11 different scorers spread across the field.
 
