Madurai: A reply from the Madurai corporation that adequate toilet facility is available in Vilakuthoon locality has left traders in the city fuming. The Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association had recently approached the National Human Rights Commission seeking a direction to the local body to create the toilet facility at Vilakuthoon, a commercial hub in the city where a century-old public toilet was razed down in 2012. The association members had to approach the NHRC as the traders as well as the public who thronged the area for shopping did not have a toilet facility. The NHRC which registered a case had directed the civic corporation to take appropriate measures to ensure toilet facility. In December 2017, the civic body took efforts to increase the sanitation facility at Vilakkuthoon and its surrounding places, like the space behind Kamarajar statue, Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal and nearby CSI church at Keelavasal. The civic body installed two e-toilets at Vilakkuthoon by December-end. However, these toilets installed at a cost of Rs 6 lakh were found vandalized by anti-social elements on December 30, even as the installation was under way. While the vandals were yet to be identified, the corporation had not taken any effort to install them again. In these circumstances, the civic body, in reply to a letter received by the trade body on Friday, stated that the toilet facility in the locality was adequate. “We see this as a failure of both the city corporation and the city police in fulfilling its duties. The former has backed down fearing anti-socials while the latter has failed to identify the vandals and punish them under the law,” said an office-bearer of the association seeking anonymity. The civic body did set up a toilet facility at Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal. But the civic body has given the reply, a copy of which has been marked to NHRC, that adequate toilet facility is now available, added the member. K Venkatesan, a grocery shop owner from East Veli Street, said that the civic body, which was campaigning against open defecation and urination in public, had not created enough toilet facility. With the Chithirai festival fast approaching, a large number of people would throng the city.  They would have to bear with the bad smell as people would be forced to urinate on the streets. A corporation official, when contacted, said that they were helpless as they could not find a secure space to set up the facility. He said that church authorities and anti-socials had been playing spoilsport when they tried to establish toilets in the two other places.