BHOPAL: Even as yet another debt-ridden farmer attempted suicide in Damoh on Friday, MoS agriculture Balkrishna Patidar sparked controversy by saying that suicide is a “world problem”.

 Madhya Pradesh is third in terms of farm suicides in India, which is turning into a pressure point for the government in election year. Farmers’ organisations have condemned the minister for his “insensitive” remark.
 
 Laxman Kachi, 45, a farmer of Sookha village took poison on Friday. His family says he had taken a loan of Rs 50,000 on exorbitant interest from a private money lender and was shattered after his kharif crops failed last season. To make it worse, he was not able to sow rabi crops because of the drought, they said. 
 
 His son, Narayan, said: “My father was under tremendous stress. We had already given the money lender Rs 90,000 when the principal amount of loan was Rs 50,000. The money lender would take money every six months, and was harassing us for repayment.”
 
 Investigating officer KS Karoliya said Narayan was brought to the district hospital after he took poison. “A money-lender issue has cropped up, but things will be clear only after investigation.”
 
 Even as Kachi battles for life, MoS Patidar termed suicide a “global problem”. Asked by reporters in Indore why MP records so many farmer suicides, he said, “Businessmen, IAS-IPS officers, police, people from all sections of society commit suicide. It happens all over the world.”
 
 His remarks triggered outrage among farmers. Shivkumar Sharma aka Kakka ji, national president of  , criticised the minister for his “callous” remarks. State general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union, Anil Yadav, condemned the statement and said: “This is the real face of BJP, which claims to be kisan friendly.” 
 
 Farm distress is a sensitive issue in MP and the state government is rolling out scheme after scheme to ensure better price and easier loans for farmers. Unfortunately, however, it has failed to stop farm suicides. On March 20 this year, Union agriculture minister Purshottam Rupla informed Lok Sabha that Madhya Pradesh was third in terms of farm suicide in the country. There has been a 21% jump in farm suicides since 2013. The state, which claims double-digit agricultural growth for the last five years and was recently given its fifth Krishi Karman Award, reported a horrifying 6,071 farmer suicides between 2011 and 2016.
 
 
