NAGPUR: The   (NMC) isn’t bothered about repairing the damaged portion of a railing of   bridge near  . On several occasions, broken concrete portions of the damaged railing have reportedly fallen on people and vehicles. However,   officials say though the railing is damaged, the bridge is in extremely good condition.

 The bridge, which is city’s first railway overbridge ( ) and flyover, connects Kamal Chowk to Golibar Chowk. On December 29 last year, a speeding four-wheeler hit the railing on the left side of the bridge. “Within a couple of days, the damaged portion collapsed on the road under the bridge,” a senior official from the Pachpaoli police station told TOI.
 
 The official claimed that soon after the accident, he had informed the state government’s public works department and Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation. “The NMC cleared the debris but no agency came forward to repair the railing. To ensure safety of motorists, police tied a rope along the broken portion of the bridge,” he said. 
 
 “The damaged portion is crumbling and there’s always a danger of vehicles falling down from the opening in the railing, especially in the night as street lights on the bridge aren’t working,” said Mahesh Umate, a shopkeeper. Some motorists said the railing should be repaired immediately to prevent accidents. 
 
 Officials from state PWD, agency which had constructed the bridge, said the ROB was handed over to Nagpur Improvement Trust and its repair and maintenance is the responsibility of NMC.
 
 NMC’s chief engineer Manoj Talewar said the NMC is only responsible for carrying out the tarring work, which it does as and when required.
 
 The proposal to construct the overbridge was approved in early 1970s but the work was completed in 1984. The work, particularly in the final phase, was carried out in a haphazard manner. PWD constructed the single lane 1,140 metre ROB as per payload factor on one way. The actual load on the bridge is double its capacity and traffic jams are common during peak hours.
 
 The bridge had developed gaps in expansion joints between pillars at 36 places. As a preventive measure, the NMC had filled them with tar, but it led to formation of bumps. “This has actually increased accidents as motorists lose balance on the bumps,” said cops.
 
 
