KOLKATA: India pacer Mohammad Shami’s wife   lodged a complaint of domestic violence and infidelity against her husband at Lalbazar police headquarters on Thursday. This comes a day after Jahan brought in a slew of allegations against him by posting a series of ‘objectionable’ conversations between Shami and several women on social media.

 
 Some of the posts were off the social media platform by Wednesday afternoon. Jahan asked the Kolkata Police’s cybercell to look into the matter as she had not deleted them herself.
 
 “She lodged a written complaint with us and we sent it to the Jadavpur police station to draw it into an FIR. She has specifically complained about being tortured by her husband and inlaws and also about her husband cheating on her and having several relations outside marriage,” said  , the joint commissioner (crime), Kolkata Police.
 
 Jahan said on Thursday she wasn’t able to access her account for a considerable period of time on Wednesday after some of Shami’s friends and relatives had possibly reported the posts as “abusive”, prompting Facebook to take them down. “However, I didn’t receive any communication from Facebook. How could they remove my posts without my permission? Moreover, some of Shami’s relatives had been posting abusive comments on my posts since Tuesday. How could Facebook not block their accounts and delete my posts?” she said.
 
 Hasin’s lawyer, Zakir Hossein, later said she was facing torture from her husband and in-laws for months after their wedding in early 2014. “However, all throughout, she tried to save the marriage and adjust to the circumstances. But Shami and his family always mistreated her. But when she found out about the extra-marital affairs and was being threatened by Shami of divorce, she resolved to drag him to court and punish him for all the misdeeds,” said Hossein.
 
 Meanwhile, Shami didn’t return to his Jadavpur home on Wednesday after playing in the Deodhar trophy match at Dharamshala on Tuesday. Instead, he went to his hometown in  , where his parents live.
 
 Speaking to reporters in UP, Shami termed all the allegations brought in by his wife as baseless and said it was a conspiracy to spoil his game. “I tried to contact Hasin but she didn’t take my calls. I have some work at home and will return to Kolkata in two to three days. We were fine even before I had left for the match at Dharamshala. We shopped together and had a good time celebrating Holi. I don’t know why she is saying all these. I spoke to her father and even he said he had no idea why Hasin is behaving like this. All I can say is that I’m innocent and all the allegations are false,” he said.
 
