NEW DELHI:   coach   is aware just how dangerous   can be as the two sides gear up to face each other in the Eliminator of the   2018 on Wednesday. The Knight Riders, who needed to win their last league game against the Sunrisers Hyderabad, did so – by five wickets – and earned themselves a spot in the Playoffs, whereas the Royals knocked out Royal Challengers Bangalore which gave them a chance to qualify, a scenario that was guaranteed once Mumbai Indians went down to Delhi Daredevils.

 
 
 
 Kallis, writing for his column for Wednesday’s TOI mentioned that he understands the need to counter the threat possesses by Royals, and that the circumstances in which they have qualified for the knockouts make Royals a dangerous side.
 
 “We will approach Wednesday’s game against Rajasthan with momentum and confidence and also with the same aggressive brand of cricket we have tried to play with all season. We honestly had no preference who we played when there were still three or four teams vying for that fourth place, but it did look as though the Royals were ‘outsiders’ with a couple of games to go,” Kallis, who played 166 Tests and 328 ODIs for South Africa, wrote.
 
 
 
 “The Rajasthan players probably feel as though they have been given a second life, a chance at the play-offs they almost certainly weren’t expecting, so that makes them dangerous. This is a bonus for them and I expect they will throw caution to the wind and try to take the game away from us early.”
 
 Wednesday’s fixture will mark the end of the IPL 2018 campaign for one of the franchises. Kallis pointed out that there is no room for even the slightest of errors on the day of the eliminator, while mentioning that two crucial elements – calmness and trust – will be key if KKR are to emerge victorious in the all-important contest.
 
 “All the ‘one-percenters’ count double in knockout matches, that’s where the game is often decided. Calmness under pressure and trust in each other have been two of our greatest strengths this season and I’ll be hoping for plenty more of the same; as well as loads of energy and a little bit of luck,” the former allrounder, who scored over 16000 runs for South Africa, said.
 
 “Home ground advantage will be enormous, of course. Naturally I’m biased but Eden Gardens is the best stadium in India with the best crowd – the Royals will have to overcome them as well as the players to stay alive.”
 
 Another area, which Kallis believes will help KKR take confidence from is their performance against Sunrisers on Saturday, where they encashed on the middle-order frailties of their opponents during a comfortable five-wicket win. The Sunrisers lost six wickets for the addition of only 31 to total of 172/9. 
 
 During the chase, the Knight Riders took up the challenge and came out all guns blazing. Chris Lynn and Sunil Narine (29) added 52 in 3.4 overs before the latter was sent back by Shakib Al Hasan. Lynn and Robin Uthappa kept the run-rate up going, adding 67 for the second wicket before an acrobatic catch by Manish Pandey in the deep ended the Australian’s innings.
 
 With 54 still needed, Sunrisers, who sensed a chance to come back, started to apply the choke. However, Uthappa (45) and skipper Dinesh Karthik (26*) consigned the hosts to their third consecutive loss as the Knight Riders won with five wickets and two balls remaining.
 
 “For the third game in succession we fought back from a position in which we could have been dominated, this time in the final five overs of the Hyderabad innings. Several people have told me they thought the Sunrisers would set us a target in the region of 200, but we produced our best ‘death’ bowling performance of the entire campaign to restrict those final 30 deliveries to just 31 runs. It was a truly special and rare performance,” added Kallis.
 
 “We still needed to chase the runs down and there’s no doubt that doing so in a knockout situation can be quite different to a normal league game. But it was a terrific start from the openers and I could sense the wind being taken out of the Hyderabad players quite early on. It was a clinical run chase without any signs of a wobble, exactly what we wanted.”
 
