In January, BT had reported about the lead pair of ' ' —   and   — quitting the show on the grounds of inhuman treatment and harassment meted out by the producers, Jatin Sethi and Aastha Naad. A month later, the show went off air abruptly. Post that, the producers filed a police complaint against Pranav and Jyoti, after which the Crime Branch served summons against them. In a new turn of events, the National Human Rights Commission of India ( ) has acted on the complaint filed by Jyoti in the first week of April against the producers, and written to the Chief Secretary of Maharashtra and Commissioner of Police to investigate the matter and take action within eight weeks.

 Lawyer Suvigya Vidyarthi, who is representing the lead couple and Cine & TV Artists Association ( ), says, “We had written to the Chief Secretary of Maharashtra and the Commissioner of Police against the irregularities and the inhuman treatment meted out to Jyoti and Pranav on the set of the show. Later, we approached the NHRC and they have issued directions to these authorities to take action within eight weeks and inform the complainant of the same. The two young actors have been harassed. We have approached the right authorities and are happy that they have taken cognisance of the matter. We will make sure that justice prevails and this becomes a precedent for the industry at large.”
 
 Sushant Singh, General Secretary, CINTAA, says, "The NHRC order is a huge step for us as probably for the first time, the commission has taken cognisance of the pitiable conditions a Hindi television artiste works in. Although this order concerns the lead actress of one particular show, we all know that these conditions are not an exception. Not just the artistes, but the whole crew that works in inhuman conditions. The system needs to change and be regulated and this NHRC order shall become the foundation for the big fight."
 
 On her part, producer   says, "Ironically, Jyoti and Pranav violated human rights by dishonouring the legal agreement and further breaching it by defaming us. They criminally conspired and blackmailed us, which led to the shutdown of the show and 100 fellow show members losing work. They blamed us for inhuman treatment, even though they were provided separate vanity vans and all other luxuries, including a mini health club. Now, they seem to rest their belief in the law by approaching NHRC, but surprisingly, they never showed up whenever any Indian constitutional agency called them to hear their side. They did not even attend any of the meetings held by Indian Motion Picture Producers Association (IMPPA). We have raised our complaint to the agencies and we believe justice will be served."
 
