KADAPA: Vontimitta wore a devastated look on Saturday, a day after heavy rain and squall destroyed all makeshift arrangements at Lord   venue, leaving four dead and 31 injured. Officials said they received an alert about the rain from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) only after the downpour started.

 
 While in the past, the celebrations and rush of devotees continues for a week after the Kalyanam, this year it is a different story.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Following the tragedy,   chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu stayed overnight in  . He visited the injured persons at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday night. The   CM announced an ex gratia of Rs 15 lakh to the families of the deceased and Rs 3 lakh aid to the severely injured.
 
 Naidu conducted a review meeting with district officials on Saturday morning. He slammed them for not taking adequate measures to tackle the situation during and after the gusty winds and rain. He also found fault with the police for closing down shops from Kadapa airport to R&B guesthouse, and from there to Vontimitta which is about 26 km. He lashed out at the officials for ignoring safety measures when weather alerts were given in surrounding places.
 
 The officials, however, claimed they had little information about the rain and squall. District revenue officer of Kadapa, M  , said that they received an alert from APSDMS about lightning strikes at some places in Kadapa, but Vontimitta did not figure in that alert. “We received another alert from India Meteorological Department around 7pm, but by that time the devastation had already taken place.
 
 IMD director   told STOI that they had sent the alert for both   and Andhra Pradesh for two days on Friday evening at about 6:30pm. He said these kind of summer squalls cannot be predicted as to where they will occur.
 
 “We can predict them before 24 hours in larger areas like isolated places in Rayalaseema region,” he said. YK Reddy said that it was only an intense spell of rain in Vontimitta and not a cloudburst. These rains are common during the summers, he said.
 
