GURUGRAM: Five days after a security company manager was robbed of his belongings at  , two of the accused were arrested on Monday while three others managed to flee. 

 According to police, the accused — Shaukat Ali (26) and   (26) — confessed to have robbed three people, including the security firm manager, using the same  . 
 
 The gang, cops said, targeted people looking for cabs on Iffco Chowk and under the guise of giving them a lift to their destination, robbed them of their valuables. 
 
 On May 16, Ashwini Kumar — a security firm manager — reached Iffco Chowk around 10pm and was searching a cab to travel to Delhi. A car having four people, including the driver, approached him and offered to drop him till Dwarka. The occupants in the passenger seat made him sit in the middle. 
 
 Kumar in his complaint told cops that instead of taking the expressway, the accused took a different route and stopped at a secluded place. There he was thrashed and robbed of his gold chain, gold ring, laptop, mobile, cash and ATM card. 
 
 They also forced him to reveal the PIN of his ATM card and withdrew Rs 1 lakh from his account.
 
 Cops lodged the complaint and started investigation. The modus operandi matched a number of robbery cases committed near Iffco Chowk. On May 21, the crime unit of Sector 17 got a tip-off about the movement of a robbers gang in a car and managed to arrest two while the rest fled in the car. 
 
 Cops, however, haven’t revealed the details leading to the arrest of Ali and Khan, both residents of Mewat. The duo were produced in court on Tuesday and sent to three day police remand. 
 
 Meanwhile, a Sector 40 resident was robbed of his laptop and documents by three armed robbers near Greenwood City on Tuesday morning when he was on his way to work. As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the trio under section 379-A (snatching) of the IPC at Sector 40 police station. 
 
 Police said that they are trying to identify the accused with the help of the footage recovered from the CCTVs installed near the crime spot. 
 
 
