GURUGRAM: The city’s   force has been facing the heat in recent times for botching up the school murder probe, but they acted with alacrity on Thursday to crack a kidnapping case within six hours, rescuing the victim and arresting three of the four accused.

 A   in Sector 44 was   by four men in a car, allegedly to extract money his   owed the kidnappers, said police. Taking prompt action, police set up   and checked vehicles before tracking the location of the mobile phone from which the accused made a   call to a spot in Sector 29 where the car was parked. They rescued the security supervisor and arrested three of the accused, who are all auto drivers, while one managed to escape.
 
 Vivek Kumar (24), a native of Unnao (UP) who stays at Wazirabad and works with Encore Capital Group in Sector 44 as a security supervisor, was kidnapped around 9am on Thursday by four men in a white WagonR after he stepped out of his office to go home. He was around 200m from his office, when Prem Narayan, a security guard in his company, witnessed the kidnapping. Narayan raised the alarm and informed the police control room.
 
 A police team led by inspector Gaurav Phogat, SHO, Sushant Lok police station, reached the spot and started a probe after registering an FIR under sections 365 (kidnapping) and 34 (common intention) of IPC. Police put up barricades around Sector 44 and started checking vehicles. 
 
 Kumar’s   soon approached police, alleging that someone had called him to demand a ransom of Rs 2.5 lakhfor his son’s release. Cops obtained the number of the mobile phone from which the ransom call was made. They tracked the phone location and reached the WagonR, which was parked in a secluded spot in Sector 29. 
 
 On seeing the cops, the accused tried to escape, leaving Kumar in the car. However, police managed to nab Prem Chand (35), Ankit (20), residents of Kanpatiyapur village in Kannauj district, and Sachin (36), a resident of Mainpuri district, while the fourth guy escaped.
 
 “Nearly six hours after the kidnapping, we tracked the mobile phone of the accused to a stationary location. We reached the location and found their WagonR. The accused tried to escape, but we arrested three and rescued Kumar. The accused revealed that Kumar’s brother-in-law Vishnu had to pay Rs 2.5 lakh to them, and that they had kidnapped Kumar to get the money back,” Phogat told TOI, adding, “We’re questioning the accused and conducting raids to nab the fourth guy. We’ve taken their car into custody but it is not clear who own’s it. The accused will be produced in a city court by Friday.”
 
 “The victim has been handed over to his family. Police took prompt action on the information and solved the case within hours,” said Anil Yadav, ACP (DLF), Gurgaon. 
 
 
