Though ' ' has been in the news ever since its filming began,   Padukone's regal look has been the hot topic among brides this wedding season. Brides-to-be are opting for intricate chokers, heavy mathapattis and haath phools. These jewellery sets are available on rent at jewellery stores in  ,   and Kutubkhana, and are priced between Rs 2,000 and Rs 8,000 for a day.

  
  Fazia trying a heavy choker set, inspired by Deepika's look 
 
 
 
 
  Toshi Agarwal, a resident of  , who recently got married, says, "Since my lehenga isn't too elaborate, I decided to wear a big necklace, inspired by Deepika's jewellery in 'Padmaavat'." 
 
  
  
 
 Bhawna, a Cantonment resident, who is set to tie the knot soon, says, "I found a gold choker, similar to what Deepika wore in the film, in the market. I'll wear a mathapatti, what Deepika wore in the 'Ghoomar' song.”
 
  
  Artificial jewellery inspired by Deepika's look in 'Padmaavat' is available in Bareilly markets 
 
 
  
  Sugandha, who got married recently wore 'Padmaavat'-inspired neckpiece, maathapatti and maang tika 
 
 
 
  Priyanka, a resident of Rampur Garden, who is getting married next month, says, "I am in awe of the elegant mathapatti shown in the film. I've booked a raanihaar, just like Deepika wore in the Holi song. I am pairing it with chaandbaalis and mathapatti. I will also wear haath phool and a big kundan ring. Though these jewellery make you look like a queen, they do burn a hole in your pocket. I had to shell out Rs 8,000 to rent the jewellery for one day."
 
  
  
 
  
  Sakshi posing for us while selecting a 'Padmaavat'-inspired maang tika and choker set
 
 
 
 
   , a jewellery shop owner in DD Puram, says, "This wedding season, 'Padmaavat'-inspired jewellery is a major hit with the brides-to-be. These artificial jewellery pieces can be bought on rent for a day anywhere between Rs 2,000-8,000. Heavy chokers, chunky earrings and big-sized rings – all inspired by Deepika's look – are top choices." 
 
  
  
 Prashant Singh, another jewellery shop owner in Bara Bazaar, says, "Padmaavat-inspired nath, borla, haathphool and mathapatti are some of our hot-sellers."
 
  
  Mahak, who got married recently, wore 'Padmaavat'- inspired choker set
 
 
 
  
 
 
