MALAPPURAM: Staying true to its rich tradition of communal harmony, the state has thrown up several stories exemplifying religious coexistence. This time around, such a story has emerged from   in  . In the holy month of  , a Vishnu temple in the region would host a mass Iftar dinner to local Muslims. 

 
 Vegetable biriyani and snacks, apart from fruits, juices and special Ramzan drinks would be served to around 700 people, as part of the Prathishta Dinam (Consecration Day) festival of the   temple at Punnathala near   on Thursday.
 
 The temple management committee has set up an organising committee and preparations are in the final stage.
 
 The Iftar dinner, which is being held to spread the message of peace and harmony, is one of the major events of the second day of temple festival organized every year, said Mohanan Nair, secretary of the temple management committee. 
 
 "The event is being organised with the support of all the local residents in the Muslim-majority village, irrespective of their caste, religion or politics. The committee has invited everyone to the event and we expect over 700 people to attend it," Mohanan said.
 
 "Apart from the villagers, eminent personalities in the panchayat are also expected to attend the party. We cannot serve non-vegetarian food as the event is being held as part of the temple festival," Mohanan said adding that the focus is upon the spreading the message of brotherhood and peaceful coexistence among the new generation. 
 
  "At a time when communal forces have been misusing even temple premises to implement their agenda, it is our duty to organize such events," he said. 
 
 The chairman of the Iftar organizing committee, K Mammu, who is also a local political leader, said the temple committee is planning to organize the event annually. 
 
 "During last Ramadan the temple organised a similar event and it was a big success with the participation of more than 500 people. This year too, the holy month of Ramzan coincides with the temple festival," he said. 
 
