MUMBAI: A day after a reporter was beaten up by five “bullies” over a seat dispute on a  , a youth was assaulted in a   by a passenger who accused him of  . The victim was slashed on his forehead and cheek. 

 The incident happened around 10.40 am at Borivli, when Avdesh Kumar Yadav, the victim, was at the door of a Churchgate-bound slow local. According to his complaint, a commuter tried to get past him but the coach was packed. The commuter pushed his way in, and started an argument with Yadav for blocking the door. During the squabble, he slashed Yadav. At Malad, Yadav, who is in his late twenties, alighted and took his attacker to the Railway Protection Force outpost. But by the time the   could get to the attacker, he fled. Yadav was sent to the Borivli   outpost where a non-cognizable offence was recorded as police did not find the injuries serious. Police will be scaning footage from CCTV at Borivli station to identify the accused.
 
 Meanwhile, the police team probing Wednesday’s assault on reporter Sudhir Shukla have learnt that most of the attackers were in similar shirts, so they suspect they could be employees of the same organisation. Police are also making inquiries at organisations that have a dress code similar to what most of the attackers had worn.
 
 “We have been scanning CCTV footage of stations between Andheri and Virar. A witness, who was positioned close to the attackers, is in the process of being identified. He should be able to provide more details about the attackers," said an officer privy to the probe. Shukla had boarded a Churchgate local from Mira Road around 7am. He faced resistance at the door but managed to squeeze in. Subsequently, he had an argument with a group of five men who had reserved seats for their friends. They bashed up Shukla till his face bled. 
 
 Post these incidents, RPF has started posting decoys inside WR locals, particularly during peak hours, to identify bullies. “The decoys will click pictures if a commuter is seen attacking another. These pictures will be forwarded over WhatsApp to teams stationed on the platform. The   would be apprehended at the next station," said an RPF official. Large teams of personnel are being posted at Nalasopara, Vasai, Mira Road, Borivli and Andheri stations in particular to nab bullies whose pictures are sent over by the decoys. The RPF intends to continue with this exercise permanently to curb bullying in trains.
 
