SHILLONG:   faces a daunting task in trying to retain power in  . The party, which has been at the helm in the state for almost a decade, managed to 
  , conceding 19 to the National People’s Party. 

 But late on Saturday, it nevertheless pressed on, submitting a letter to the governor seeking an invite to form the government having emerged as the single largest party. But with BJP also claiming “an absolute majority” with “allies and friendly parties”, the next round is sure to see the regional parties dictating terms. 
 
 Of the three regional parties,   (UDP) won six seats, People’s Democratic Front (PDF), four, and Hill State People’s Democratic Party (HSPDP) two, while the Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement (KHNAM) obtained one seat. Besides, three Independents will also have a crucial say in the post-election bargaining. 
 
  
  
 
 A prolonged negotiation cannot be ruled out, and the Congress high command swiftly 
  , Ahmed Patel and  , to Shillong on Saturday. The party is trying hard not to allow BJP to grab power from under its nose, as it did in Manipur and Goa last year despite the saffron party finishing second best there. 
 
 Even as Patel and Nath explored opportunities to gain the support of the smaller parties and independents, BJP announced in New Delhi that it would form the government in all the three north-eastern states, and appointed   and Alfonso Kannanthanam as the observers for Meghalaya. “BJP, its allies and friendly parties have secured an absolute majority in the assemblies of Nagaland and Meghalaya. The party is confident of forming government with its allies,” Union health minister J P Nadda told reporters after the BJP parliamentary board met in the national capital. Nath was furious. “BJP has won just two seats here, but it has its leaders camping here. It shows what their game plan is,” he told TOI. 
 
 The Congress leader is well aware that Conrad Sangma, son of P A Sangma who founded NPP, is likely to be backed by BJP in cobbling together a majority. Conrad’s sister, Agatha, and brother, James, also won their individual contests in what is NPP’s best ever electoral campaign yet. The uncertain situation is likely to become clearer on Sunday when the smaller parties and independents reveal their stand on whom to support in forming the government. 
 
 Agatha Sangma struggled to defeat BJP’s Billykid Sangma in South Tura, which was once represented by her father. Her winning margin was 1,603 votes. Her brother, James, won comfortably in Dadenggre by a difference of 2,785 votes. 
 
 Chief minister  , who led Congress’s resistance against NPP and BJP, retained Ampati, his home constituency, by a margin of 8,110 votes. He also won Songsak, the second constituency from where he as contesting. His wife and sitting Congress legislator, Dikkanchi D Shira, defeated her closest rival, BJP’s Premananda Koch, by a big 7,861 gap in Mahendraganj. 
 
 Two prominent Congress candidates, Noverfield Marak and Abu Taheer Mondal, however, lost to Thomas A Sangma and SG Esmatur Momin, both of NPP, in North Tura and Phulbari, a Muslim-dominated constituency. Former chief minister Salseng C Marak (Congress) lost to NPP’s Timothy D Shira of NPP in Resubelpara, while former minister Manas Choudhuri (Congress) lost to BJP strongman Sanbor Shullai in South Shillong.
 
