KOLKATA: The gunshot death of the kin of an Independent candidate in the troubled zone of Bhangar on Friday, which came barely 24 hours after the   compensation-for-violence clause on officials, prompted a damage-control exercise led by CM   herself.

 Hafijul Molla, a relative of one of the Independent candidates who have mounted a surprisingly spirited challenge to   in Bhangar, was shot in the head by Trinamool supporters on Friday afternoon and died on the way to a health centre.
 
 
  
 
 Banerjee, in an interview to a Bengali news channel a couple of hours later, mentioned the Trinamool’s most prominent face in Bhangar — Arabul Islam—by name. “I came to know that Arabul Islam did something in Bhangar. I have asked police to arrest the culprits,” she said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Within hours of the CM’s statement, Islam was arrested from an undisclosed location. SP Baruipur Arijit Sinha confirmed the development. 
 
 The rest of the state administration, too, scurried to maximise forces available for election duty on Monday. In one district, Purulia, it meant calling back even home guards and constables deployed as personal security for ministers, district and sessions judges, political leaders and industrialists. Trinamool minister Shantiram Mahato, Baghmundi MLA Nepal Mahato, a district judge of Purulia, former Forward Bloc MP Narahari Mahato, CPM Purulia secretary Manindra Gope, industrialist   were all requested to release their security guards on Friday so that they could join the Belguma Police Lines in Purulia.
 
 The state government, officials said, would deploy these home guards and civic volunteers for election duty after a stock-taking — during a meeting between state election commissioner Amarendra Singh, state home secretary Atri Bhattacharya and state director-general of police Surajit Kar Purkayastha at the SEC office on Friday afternoon — showed up a possible deficit in numbers. Officials said there might be a shortfall even after 1,800 police personnel from Andhra Pradesh (10 companies), Sikkim (four companies),   and Odisha (two companies each) joined their Bengal counterparts by Saturday.
 
 Thursday’s Calcutta HC order came with a rider to SEC and state officials they would be held personally liable and would have to pay compensation for deaths and damage to property in the poll season if violence exceeded that seen in the 2013 rural poll.
 
 A senior home department official, however, said not too much should be read into the withdrawal of personal security officers. “Withdrawal of additional forces is done across the state before every election. However, personal security is withdrawn on a case-to-case basis. It may be scaled down in some cases. It depends on the threat inputs provided by district intelligence units,” he added.
 
 The government, in its hurry, could not even update the booth sensitivity report that it had submitted to the SEC two months ago. It had marked only 6,000 (11%) of the total 58,467 polling booths as highly sensitive and sensitive; 60% booths were marked sensitive during the 2013 panchayat  . SEC insiders said the apparent crunch in availability of forces had made mapping of sensitive booths difficult. The government, officials said, would try to stick to the formula of one armed personnel and one lathi-wielding constable for each polling booth.
 
 RAF and State Armed Police (SAP) personnel started leaving for the districts on Friday morning and did route marches in trouble-prone areas without waiting for forces from outside states. Civic volunteers have also been trained to aid cops.
 
 “They will pass on information to the nearest police station so that forces can respond quickly,” a police officer said. The government is also using 9,000 of 27,000-odd Kolkata Police personnel for the rural polls.
 
 
