CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government is setting up a special Chandigarh affairs branch under the chief minister   to protect its 60% share in Chandigarh. The step has been taken after the recent Union home ministry’s decision to merge the Chandigarh deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) with the combined cadre of all Union Territories, including Delhi police. The move has hit Punjab’s 60% share in Chandigarh police’s   cadre.

  
 
 It is learnt that the agenda for constitution of a separate branch within the general administration department, directly under the chief minister, would come up in the next cabinet meeting scheduled on April 30.
 
 The Union home ministry’s move has also been strongly opposed by CM Amarinder Singh. On April 23, the chief minister had demanded maintenance of status quo till the settlement of the territorial dispute of Chandigarh between Punjab and Haryana. The chief minister has advocated for continuing with the existing pattern of all Chandigarh posts to be shared between Punjab and Haryana in 60:40 ratio.
 
 A senior Punjab government officer told TOI, “After setting up of the separate branch to protect Punjab’s interests, the Punjab Reorganization Act, 1966, would be re-examined to claim Punjab’s due share in the Chandigarh administration.” The officer added such decisions by the central government in future could affect Punjab’s share in various other departments too, apart from police. Now, the new branch would be tasked to do a department-wise and category-wise scrutiny of Punjab’s officers including IAS, PCS, IPS and PPS officers, and other employees on deputation in the Chandigarh administration.
 
 The issue of systematic erosion of Punjab’s share in Chandigarh over past few years had also been taken up by the previous SAD-BJP government with the Union ministry of home affairs. Chandigarh’s first chief commissioner was a Punjab cadre IAS officer but later the post of chief commissioners and subsequently of the advisor to the Chandigarh administrator was converted into Assam, Goa, Meghalaya and other Union Territories (AGMUT) cadre post.
 
 On the other hand, Punjab cadre IAS officers are often reluctant to go on deputation to the Chandigarh administration because of which the post of managing director of Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) is lying vacant since October 19, 2017.
 
 Though the Chandigarh administration had recommended name of Punjab IAS officer Anindita Mitra for the post in December but later the Punjab government withdrew her name. In addtion, the post of Chandigarh Municipal Commissioner has not got a suitable IAS officer from Punjab since October 10, 2017. The Chandigarh administration had recommended Punjab IAS officer Kamal Kishore Yadav’s name for the post in December but his final orders are still awaited from the Centre.
 
 
