Amritsar:  , the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs, has called an “emergency meeting” of its clerics on Thursday to decide on the next course of action on the controversial movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’, after the Supreme Court cleared the flick for a release this Friday.

 The announcement came on a day when the movie’s producer,  , said politics within the Akal Takht was to be blamed for the movie running into controversy.
 
 Opposition to the movie, meanwhile, continued to grow among Sikh radical groups. All India Sikh Conference president Gurcharan Singh Babbar said they had submitted a memorandum to Prime Minister  , urging him to stop the release of the movie without delay. He said though Supreme Court had cleared the movie’s release, Sikhs would not accept the SC’s decision as they believed in religious code.
 
 Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh told TOI on Wednesday that Sikh high priests would decide on what steps they could take after the apex court had cleared the movie for a release.
 
 Sikka, though, said he was informed that the Akal Takht’s decision was because of its internal politics. “I am told the problem is somewhere else; there is a leadership issue and there are divided groups which are fighting. I have become a political scapegoat,” he said.
 
 On the objections raised by Sikh bodies over the depiction of Bhai Mardana and Bibi Nanaki, Sikka instead questioned the SGPC. “Please ask them why they cleared the film after seeing everything in the first place? They approved it and an entire sub-committee gave its approval; they didn’t raised any query on Bibi Nanaki at that time. The then chief secretary of SGPC gave me the NOC, with the consent of the president,” he said.
 
 Sikka said political groups were indulging in mudslinging and the entire controversy had snowballed into a shouting match between them. “This row has provided them with ways to call out each group,” he added.
 
 Though the state government has not imposed a ban on  , Sikka has decided against releasing it in the state. “The state government is happy with my decision,” he said.
 
 Need global ban, says US body
 
 Nanak Shah Fakir has not only created a furor in India, but across the border in Pakistan too. “The movie showing Sikh personalities in human form is unacceptable and should not be allowed to screen,” said Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee member Bishan Singh, while talking to TOI over the phone from Lahore. He said the issue was discussed in every gathering of Sikhs, but no demonstration had been held so far. He said PSGPC would discuss the issue with Sikh leadership arriving Pakistan to celebrate Baiskahi.
 
 Need global ban, says US bod
 
 Following controversy over the yet-to-be-released movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’, American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (AGPC) has demanded that movie be stopped from being screened in 40 countries. AGPC coordinator Pritpal Singh said the Indian government should issue immediate directions to ban the film. “It portrays the founder of Sikhism, Guru Nanak Dev, contrary to Sikh philosophy and tenets. The movie has the illustrations of Sikh masters and is not acceptable in any form,” he said.
 
 
