MOHALI: A 19-year-old girl hanged herself to a ceiling fan at her residence under mysterious circumstances on Friday in Balongi area.

 The body was sent for postmortem after which the cops have started the investigation to ascertain the reason behind the  .
 
 The victim, identified as Jyoti 19, was a native of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. She came to Mohali along with her brother Govind a few months ago and settled in Adarsh Nagar colony. Jyoti, who was youngest among her siblings, was trying to find a job for herself.
 
 Her brother Govind was the sole bread earner of the family, after their parents had passed away a few months ago.
 
 The incident took place when Govind had gone out for some work. According to the neighbours, Jyoti exchanged some   with them. After sitting out in the sun for an hour, Jyoti went inside her house.
 
 Later, one of her neighbours came to pay her a visit. Jyoti didn’t responded to the continuous door bells. After several minitues, when the neighbours tried to look inside the house from a window close to the door, they saw Jyoti hanging to a ceiling fan.
 
 The neighbours panicked seeing her   and called others to help open the doors. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jyoti’s brother was informed about the incident by one of the residents. The police officials of Balongi police station reached the spot and released the body. 
 
 The cops searched the room, but couldn’t find a suicide note or any clue that could determine the reason of the act. When the cops questioned Jyoti’s brother, he couldn’t come up with any possible reason behind her sister’s suicide.
 
 Jyoti’s sister Aarti, who got married in June 2017, had also settled in Balongi area. While Aarti’s husband Chandrapal is working at a company in Mohali, Aarti and Jyoti were trying to find a job for themselves.
 
 Govind informed the police that his sister was normal and didn’t show any signs of depression. 
 
 The cops on the basis of the statement given by   under Section 174 (police to enquire and report on suicide) of Criminal Procedure Code.
 
