JAIPUR/ALWAR: Unprecedented rainfall and heavy dust storm created havoc late on Wednesday night in eastern   with 14 people, including five children, killed in   and six in   district of the state. 

 At least 100 people were injured in the dust storm and rainfall in these two districts. Many villages were under the dark and power supply was not be restored till Thursday evening. At least 600 electric poles and many high-tension lines were broken.
 
 By Thursday evening, the death toll in Dholpur had risen to 14, claimed police and district administration officials, who provided a list of the deceased to TOI. "Most of these deaths happened due to walls of houses collapsing in the storm. In most of the places, victims were sleeping," said a senior officer of Dholpur district administration.
 
 At Sepau village in Dholpur, a portion of the wall of the house of Jagdish Baghela collapsed, killing his seven-year-old daughter. At   village, a five-year-old girl was killed due to wall collapse. "At Basai Nawab village, a two-year-old boy and his two-and-a-half-year old sister were crushed under the wall," said an officer. Other deceased included Laxman Kushwah (10) of Magwara village and Suman Sharma (25) of Baseri village in Dholpur.
 
 In Bharatpur, many villages were in dark after electric poles and transformers were damaged. The deceased here included Vishambhar Jat (65), Kamla (60), Arun Singh (50), Ramshree (70),   (32), all belonging to different villages in Bharatpur, police said.
 
 
 
 
 Dholpur district collector Shuchi Tyaagi announced an ex gratia of Rs 50,000 each to the family of the deceased.
 
 She has also directed revenue officials to evaluate the quantum of loss, especially of houses and crops.
 
 Hospitals in Bharatpur and Dholpur were packed and patients were seen lying in the corridors as at least 100 people were injured in rain-related mishaps in these districts. Officials in both the districts have been asked to prepare a report on crop damage, damage to electricity cables and telephone lines.
 
 At least 600 electric poles fell, affecting the power supply to about 1,000 villages in the two districts.
 
 Officials are preparing a report of repair work.
 
 Heavy rainfall also affected railway services after trees fell on the tracks. “The Dholpur-Bharatpur rail route remained closed for almost two hours and was restored by 1 am on Thursday,” said a railway officer.
 
 
 
