HYDERABAD: Unwilling to go by what an unregistered tenant is saying, the Hyderabad high court on Monday issued a notice to B Teja Raju, son of   founder Ramalinga Raju, asking him to clear his stand on his villa at Kompalli.

  says that he is a tenant of Teja Raju’s villa and has been paying monthly rent to him. This villa was identified by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) authorities as part of proceeds in the   scam . Accordingly, it was attached under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Following a confirmation order by the adjudicating authority under the Act, the ED officials took over physical possession of the villa.
  
  
 Gajapathi Raju in his plea says that he went to his hometown for the recent Sankranti festival and when he returned to Hyderabad, his villa was sealed.
 
 Gajapathi's clothes, including his family members' and even school uniforms of his children were all inside and they had no access to the building. Appearing for Gajapathi, senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy said that Teja Raju had challenged the possession of the villa and the matter went up to the Supreme Court. But the current petitioner is his tenant, who has got nothing to do with the case, said he will pay the rent to ED from now on, instead of paying it to Teja.
 
 “Let him reside there . It will solve a lot of problems like maintenance charges, the decay of building. Otherwise, ED has to pay for them one day,” the counsel said.
 
 ED's counsel P S P Suresh Kumar said that such a facility is available to only registered tenants whose lease agreements with owners are registered. ED takes rent from them and deposit the same separately. But in the current case, such a facility cannot be extended to the tenant whose lease deed was not even registered. The single judge suspected that this tenant is leading a proxy war at the behest of Teja, he said.
 
 “At least allow us to take back Gajapathi’s belongings from the sealed villa,” the senior counsel said.
 
 
