Ludhiana: Three men impersonating as CBI officials got away with Rs 81,000 from a worker of a photo studio on Rakhi Cinema Road on Thursday afternoon on the pretext of frisking his bag of cash claiming that he was carrying drugs procured from Pakistan.

 Varinder Kumar was going to deposit the cash in a bank nearly 400 metres away from the studio.
 
 Initially, the police found the worker’s version suspicious, but on scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market, the police found three men checking the bag and talking to the worker.
 
 Varinder Kumar (32), the worker, was told by his employer Neeraj Gupta to deposit Rs 1.61 lakh to a nearby bank. The employer gave him two bundles of Rs 80,000 and Rs 81,000 in a bag for the same. Varinder told police that when he reached near the bank, a man stopped him, claiming himself to be a CBI official, and pointing at another man standing on the other side of the road as his senior. The man then took Varinder to the other side of the road.
 
 “On reaching there, the other man — claiming to be senior official — said they had a tip-off about a man smuggling drugs in the area procured from Pakistan. He asked about my whereabouts, and also took the bag of cash from me. He checked the passbooks and cheque book. Meanwhile, another person came and started a conversation. A few seconds later, they returned the bag and allowed me to go,” shared Varinder.
 
 From there, Kumar reached the bank and deposited one bundle of cash amounting to Rs 80,000. On returning to the studio, Varinder told his employer that he had given him only one bundle of cash. The employer Neeraj denied that, saying he had in fact given him two bundles of Rs 80,000 and Rs 81,000. Then, Neeraj rushed to the bank, talked to the manager, and also checked the CCTV footage in which Varinder was found giving one bundle of cash to deposit in the account.
 
 On returning, Gupta questioned Varinder, and then he shared the incident of some ‘CBI officials’ stopping him. Thereafter, both immediately called the police.
 
 Inspector Pawan Kumar, SHO, Division Number 1 police station, said police found CCTV footage in which three persons were captured talking to Varinder and checking the bag of cash. Once Varinder moved from there, the miscreants fled the place. When asked about the worker’s involvement in the robbery, the inspector said Varinder had been working there for the past six years. He would often go to the bank to deposit cash, including big amounts of Rs 10-15 lakh, therefore, he does not seem to be involved in the case, the police added.
 
 Police have lodged an FIR in this case against three unidentified accused.
 
 
