CHANDIGARH: The Sector 38 West resident welfare association (RWA) has asked the municipal corporation to enrol 151 applicants as members of the local community centre and direct the authorities concerned to accept their membership fee.

 RWA president   said residents had served a legal notice to the Chandigarh Administration, the municipal corporation, and the area councillor, and given them fortnight to accept the demand.
 
 The legal notice says that in case the 151 applicants are not enrolled within the deadline, the RWA will move the   and   high court for redress. He said the   adviser, home secretary, municipal commissioner, and the area councillor had not responded to the notice yet, but if they took no action, the RWA had legal options.
 
 The new community centre of Sector 38 west was inaugurated a few months ago but a tussle between the area councillor and residents has caused it to remain closed for the general public, even though the councillor has organised a few functions on the premises.
 
 The community centre built on an acre with 16,000 square feet of covered surface area is worth Rs 4.75 crore. It has an air-conditioned, soundproof hall with a seating capacity of 450. It includes a modular kitchen, a pantry, a bridal make-up room, a family room, and an open-air kitchen. The centre will also have provision for an e-Sampark centre for linking the ward to various citizen services offered by the UT Administration. It contains a wellequipped gym and a library for the residents.
 
 On the records, this site was marked for a dispensary and a community centre before the residents discarded the need for a dispensary and asked for a community centre instead. The building plan was approved by the office of the UT chief architect. Sector 38 (west) active resident welfare association executive member   said since the inauguration of the community centre, the area councillor had used it for the Republic Day and Lohri functionsand given it out for yoga classes.
 
 He said: “If the area councillor can hold own functions in the community centre constructed from taxpayers’ money, why can’t the general public use the service?”
 
 Another resident said: “If area councillor doesn’t need any permission to hold functions at the venue, why should the residents be denied the privilege? Why the residents have to wait for so long to use this service located so close? Why give the area councillor or any official the power to verify their document when all residents can become members of any community centre?”
 
