Vijayawada/Guntur: Untimely rain coupled with heavy winds wreaked havoc in   on Tuesday evening. Though denizens got a respite from the scorching heat, but it threw life out of the gear in the city.

 Heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorms were reported at Gudivada, Kaikaluru and Gannavaram. Commuters suffered in Vijayawada owing to dust storm-like situation especially on Bandar Road where highway expansion works are underway. With electric poles being uprooted at many places, some areas in the city were plunged into darkness. 
 
 Owing to gales, trees were left uprooted at Sunnapubattila Road, Gurunanak Colony and Christurajapuaram. A tree fell down on a bus near Tummalapalli Kalaksetram. Besides, a billboard and an electric pole collapsed at Ajitsingh Nagar. The state disaster management authority had issued warning of lightning strikes in Vijayawada rural, Vissannapet, Gampalagudem, Nuzividu, Gannavaram, Kalidindi, Chatrai, Agiripalle, Mandavalli, Kaikaluru and Gudivada mandals.
 
 The district administration has put all revenue officials on alert to take relief measures. Mango farmers who were already suffering owing to poor yield this year, incurred losses in Nuzividu, A konduru and Mylavaram mandals.
 
 Meanwhile, five died after being struck by lightening in Guntur district on Tuesday. Rain coupled with thunderstorms ravaged the district within a few hours on Tuesday evening. Two persons were killed in Venkatapalem village of Bellamkonda mandal when lightning struck them in the agriculture field. The victims were identified as Gopichand (38) and Maraiah (45).
 
 Guntupalli Gopi (20) was killed at Pedamakkena village of Sattenapalle mandal. In a similar incident, two persons died in the lightning attack in Pusulur village of Pedanandipadu mandal. The victims were identified as Madhavi 35 and Venkatrao 45. 
 
 In another incident, a 13-year old boy was severely injured when lightening struck him in Rajupalem mandal. He was rushed to the government area hospital at Sattenapalle. 
 
 Normal life was came to a standstill in several parts of the district, including the city, following sudden cloud burst on Tuesday. Although, the sudden dip in the temperature provided relief from the scorching heat, the unexpected thunderstorms literally terrified the people. Crops were damaged in Sattenapalle, Gurazala, Tenali and Mangalagiri areas. 
 
 Power supply was disrupted in many parts of the district as electric poles were uprooted due to the gales. Senior officials and staff of Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) swung into action within minutes after the rain receded and started restoration operation on war footing basis. Power supply was completely put off in Guntur city, Mangalagiri, Duggirala and Tadepalle areas. 
 
 Electric poles uprooted in Housing board colony, VR colony and Gujjanagundla areas in Guntur city. The failure of power transformer in RTC colony sub-station left the area in dark for about four hours.
 
 Normal life went out of gear in Guntur city as roads were flooded and in some areas trees were left uprooted. The ongoing underground drainage works has further complicated the situation as the areas which were dug up for laying of drainage pipelines were filled with rainwater. 
 
 Meanwhile, banana plantations were completely damaged in Uddadandarayuni palem village of capital city area. The plants in about 200 acres were uprooted due to the heavy gales. District collector Kona Sasidhar reviewed the situation with the officials and asked them to relocate the people residing in low-lying areas.
 
 
