PUNE: An on-duty constable was assaulted and beaten up by two   on Saturday afternoon. The duo was creating a ruckus and forcing shop owners in Phursungi to down their shutters. The constable told them to maintain peace in the area.

 One of the criminals,  , abused and pushed constable Pratap Gaikwad on the road. His brother Nitin Doke hit the policeman with a blunt object on his head. 
 
 “Gaikwad has sustained injuries and has four stitches on his head. He was discharged from the hospital on Sunday,” M P Bhange, sub-inspector of Hadapsar police, said.
 
 Bhange added that they arrested the duo under sections 333 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 “Both were produced in court on Sunday and have been remanded in police custody for six days,” Bhange told TOI.
 
 The Doke brothers have seven cases of body offences registered against them. Balu Doke was externed from the city limits and was also booked under the MPDA, Bhange said.
 
 Constables Gaikwad and Vinod Shivale were on patrolling duty on Pune-Saswad Road on Saturday in Phursungi against the backdrop of the by-election results of  . “Around 12.30pm when both policemen were near a liquor shop, they noticed a crowd and went to check,” Bhange said.
 
 Gaikwad noticed the Doke brothers creating a ruckus and forcing the shop owners in the area to down their shutters. “Gaikwad told the duo to stop creating panic in the area and maintain law and order,” Bhange said.
 
 Doke started abusing Gaikwad. “After Gaikwad was pushed down, Nitin Doke picked up a blunt object and hit him on his head,” Bhange said.
 
 When Shivale and other people intervened, the duo fled. “Gaikwad rushed to a nearby private hospital for the treatment. Gaikwad later lodged a complaint against the duo,” Bhange said.
 
 
