RANCHI: Jharkhand Chief Minister Raghubar Das today said the BJP's poll result in the North East today has sent out the message that it has become the party of the people. 

 ''The people have stood with Prime Minister   s politics of development and the people of the north east have given the stamp of approval for four years of   government at the Centre,'' an official release said quoting him. 
 
 Congratulating BJP president Amit Shah, he said the BJP is continuously winning under his leadership. 
 
 Das also congratulated the people of   for choosing development and throwing out the 25 year-old communist government. 
 
 In   he described BJP s victory in Tripura as ''historic'' and expressed confidence that the party would form the government in Nagaland and Meghalaya with its allies. 
 
 He congratulated the BJP workers for their hard labour in the NE states, particularly Tripura for the poll result. 
 
 The people have reposed full faith in the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his call of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', he said. 
 
 ''The politics of development of Modji has been accepted by the people across the country,'' he said adding that the number of states ruled by NDA would go upto 22-23 in the near future. 
 
 Referring to Nagaland, Das said there was every possibility of BJP forming an alliance government and opted for wait and watch in Meghalaya, where the mandate was a fractured one. 
 
 ''People of the North East are very much aware that a strong and stable government under the leadership of Modiji exists at the Centre and they will prefer to install a BJP government to achieve all round rapid growth of their region,'' Das said. 
 
 Referring to Jharkhand, he criticised opposition parties in the state for queuing up before the Hotwar jail to forge alliance with a ''convicted leader'' (Lalu Prasad). 
 
 Any new experiment of alliance with the ''convicted leader'' will not work in Jharkhand as the people of the state were aware of their ''nefarious designs'' and the mineral-rich state was in safe hand of BJP, he said without naming Prasad, the RJD president. 
 
 The general masses will not accept such experiment as they had seen how Jharkhand was looted under the RJD regime in the past, he added. PVR BS KK KK
