KOCHI: Several orphaned children are getting a temporary home this vacation as more families in the city open their hearts and home to them. 

 
 
  
 
 
 District child protection unit's (DCPU) vacation foster care programme was introduced in 2016 to give an opportunity to   presently residing in orphanages in the district to stay with a family in their home during summer vacation and enjoy the affection and care of foster parents.
 
 However, in 2016 and 2017, there was poor response from families to this programme in the district. While in 2016, only two children found a family during the two-month summer vacation, in 2017, the authorities didn't receive a single application.
 
 But this year, DCPU has so far received 23 applications, expressing willingness to take children home and already 13 children in the age group of 7 to 14 years have found a home with foster parents. DCPU is now trying to identify more children in orphanages who want to go to a home during vacation.
 
 "We approach orphanages in the district. But we face many hiccups for identifying children since many orphanages are unwilling to send children. Besides, children are also not interested as childcare institutions have lot of programmes planned during vacation. Some children though they stay in an orphanage, have biological parents who take them home during vacation," said a DCPU official.
 
 "Moreover, after identifying the child, an ice-breaking session is held with foster parents before taking the child home. Sometimes, it won't go well as the child might not be interested in going with them," the DCPU official said.
 
 Child welfare committee examines the background of 'parents' before handing over the children to them. DCPU officials speaks to the child over phone every day and inquire about their wellbeing with foster parents. The child should be brought before the CWC once in a week. Interestingly, DCPU said that this year four Muslim families have approached them requesting to take a child home as a goodwill gesture during the holy month of Ramzan. "They have requested for Muslim   children as they can also easily fast with them. Otherwise, it would be difficult for both family members and the child. So, we approached Kasaragod DCPU for Muslim children. We are awaiting their response," said a DCPU official. Ramzan fasting starts in mid-May.
 
 "We could get more applications this year as we managed to reach out to the public. Last year we received five applications, but foster parents did not turn up," said K B Zaina, child protection officer. 
 
 
