Is it a pile of plastic carry bags floating in the tank?’ You might wonder, upon checking out a massive tank of the newly   building of  . But no, take a closer look. It’s one of the newest residents of the zoo, the jelly fish! The star exhibit occupies the biggest ever 14 feet long tank in the aquarium, with its big tentacles and bell-like body, leaving the visitors awestruck. No more will you wonder why they are called the ‘aliens of the sea.’

 The new, modernised aquarium building, of 6000 sq. ft, and has more than 20 tanks, housing many new marine species in addition to its old inmates like the gold fish and butterfly fish. Arapaima, mono angel, cichlids, neon tetra… these are just a few of the newly arrived guests. Zoo superintendent TV Anilkumar says, “We wanted to introduce the deep ocean   to our city folks and through the latest renovation, we have managed to create a marine reef in the aquarium. Now, it has many rare and unseen fresh and marine water beings and invertebrates, including bamboo shark, tiger fish, mono angel and more.” A few of the fishes are imported and the jelly fish belongs to the species of jelly blubber. The popular and graceful species of sea nettle jelly fish will also be soon added to the aquarium.
 
 The marine fishes and invertebrates on display include moorish idol, pompano fish, lion fish, wrasse fish, the sea creature called carpet anemone which is the natural habitat of the clown fish, blue damsel fish, banner fish, red-tailed butterfly fish aka pakistani butterfly, blue blotch butterfly and the star fish. Meanwhile, the fresh water life includes arowana fish, alligator gar, oscar fish, lion head gold, angel fish, tiger shark, shovel nose cat fish and our own Western Ghats native denison barb, popularly known as Miss Kerala.
 The new arrivals have triggered renewed interest among the city-folks too. For 13-year-old Fathima Muhammed, the exhibits were a matter of wonder as she has seen them only on the internet before. “I have seen them in textbooks and wildlife TV channels too, but that was it. The marine life on display here will help students like me. I am planning to ask my class teacher to organise a study tour to the new aquarium, once the school re-opens, so that my friends also get to see them all.”
 
 The renovated aquarium was conceptualised by Santhosh Baby and Troy N, who have also been the hands behind many public aquariums across the state. “We have always wanted to create an oceanarium or a miniature of it on our own. We have tried to create a slice of marine reef here, using the available technology. We also wish to further update the aquarium to an oceanarium, making it the first of its kind.”
 
 Apart from the attractive marine life the premises of the aquarium are converted into a habitat for local breeds of fishes too, with small artificial ponds. The new attractions of the zoo serve as a perfect vacation hangout, without a doubt! 
 
 Photo Courtesy: Satheeshan Karicheri
  
  
 
 
