CHANDIGARH: PGIMER has been treating addiction to opioid drugs, like heroin and poppy husk, with an outdated method, even though the city has 7,000 opioid dependents and the health institute’s deaddiction centre gets nearly 15,000 patients every year.

 While the WHO and most health experts suggest the harm-reduction method in which a patient is treated with a substitute drug that mimics the effects of an opioid, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research has been using the abstinence model —a practice in which a patient has to abstain from any kind of high and in which relapsing back to drugs is the norm.
 
 That’s not all. The region’s premier health institute has no data on relapsing drug addicts who come for treatment to it. Of the city’s 7,000 opioid dependents, nearly 40% use injections.
 
 
  
 
 In the abstinence model, the main focus is on counselling a patient. Dr Kanwar   Sidhu, a US-based psychiatrist who has been working with the Punjab government for a deaddiction and rehabilitation plan for addicts in the state, said the PGIMER following the abstinence model implied that there was no substitution for drugs. “I have proposed to the Punjab government to start an outpatient opioid-assisted treatment (OOAT) programme. This is lacking in the PGIMER, so the relapse rate will certainly be high,” said Dr Sidhu.
 
 The PGIMER sees around 3,000 new cases and around 12,000 old cases every year at its deaddiction centre. “We do not have data on relapse. Also, the institute has no rehabilitation facility at this time,” said Dr Ajit Avasthi, head of the psychiatry department, PGIMER, who had conducted a study on substance use and dependence in Chandigarh.
 
 But what happens if there is no data on relapse?
 
 “The treatment is not based on start and end. It is lifelong,” said Dr Sidhu.
 
 He said studies in Australia had shown that the relapse rate could be cut by three times if an opioid substitution therapy (OST) is followed along with counselling and peer group support. “This is not being followed in the PGIMER,” said Dr Sidhu.
 
 Experts from AIIMS said relapse to drug use after achieving abstinence was almost a norm and seen as a part and parcel of the recovery process. “PGIMER is known for its reluctance to OST, though it is the most evidence-based treatment for opioid treatment. One assumes people who relapse will come back for treatment. However, whether they come back also depends upon if they find the treatment to be useful,” said Dr Atul Ambekar, National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, AIIMS, New Delhi.
 
 He had conducted the first unique survey in Punjab which found that in a population of around 2.77 crore people, there are more than 1.23 lakh heroin-dependent people in the state.
 
 
 
