He’s all of 29, but   is clear in his head about what he wants to do in the industry. The music composer, who debuted in Kollywood with the Santhanam-starrer Inimey Ippadithan, says, “If people come to me with the belief that I will give them good songs, I want to do justice to the trust they have placed in me. I want the songs to be repeatedly played on TV and radio; that’s my first wish. I’ve been lucky that they have made it to the top slots in radio charts. And touchwood, I’ve been blessed with films that have good scripts and my music can help elevate it.” In a candid chat with Chennai Times, he speaks about his experience composing folk scores for Shanmugapandiyan’s  , his association with AR Rahman and why it’s difficult for indie musicians. Excerpt:

 
 I got it through producer Subbu sir, whom I knew from the time I worked in Inimey Ippadithan. He had pitched my work to a couple of people and when he told me he had a project lined up for me, I was excited. I initially thought it would be a romcom, but turned out, it was a folk subject. I’ve badly wanted to do folk music, especially because some people thought I was too young to work on that genre. When PG Muthiah sir’s film came to me, he had already finished shooting almost 50 per cent of it. I saw the rushes and it was truly refreshing. I had the confidence that I could do the film. I didn’t show Muthiah sir any demo; he blindly trusted me.
 
 
 I don’t think generation has got anything to do with it. Namma indha ooru kaaranga and folk music is very native to India. Like how club music is western, Carnatic and folk are what Indian music is all about. It’s there in everyone’s mind and soul. You just have to keep listening to it and you will automatically connect with it. I’ve been listening to folk since I was young. I’ve done a lot of albums and jingles, like sari advertisements, in which I’ve tried infusing folk elements. I’ve also worked with a lot of composers who have done folk songs. So, composing the tunes was not a difficult task. To maintain the earthiness of the songs, we got the lyrics written by people from Madurai. Muthiah sir also referred to some songs very unique to there. Interestingly, I composed the tune only after we got the lyrics. That’s why  , which happens to be my first devotional song ever, sounds both trendy and also retains the nativity. The song brought the entire team a lot of good vibes.
 
 
 If a film has more than five songs, I believe that a composer gets less time to work on the background score. So, Muthiah sir said that we could use bit songs for BG. Sometimes, it’s difficult to engage audience with just instrumental scores in the background. So, we sought the help of songs.
 
 
 I used to be an additional programmer with Rahman sir; I did studio work for him. To be by his side in itself is a big learning for all. Even now, I go to his studio after every movie and I learn something new from there. Rahman has truly been an inspiration and we all wait for his advice eagerly. He always tells us to work hard and create newer, fresher sounds. He suggests that we try and avoid using a tone for the second time. His sessions are very inspiring. And I feel lucky that he likes my work. Once, he was travelling in his car and happened to hear my Hey Penne (Kattappava Kanom) on the radio. He told his friend, ‘Santhosh nalla pannirukka’, and the friend told me this. I don’t force him to listen to my songs or ask him to tweet in my favour. I want my songs to automatically reach him.
 
 
 The biggest plus of the trend is that you can introduce newer talents in one project. But the negative aspect is that the film might sound different tone-wise. I think if the film is an anthology, having many composers work on the music might work. But I personally believe that it’s important for a film to maintain a tone.
 
 
 I’m always game for indie songs because I think you can experiment with sounds in the singles as there are no restrictions. However, I don’t think it has that big a reach because of its production value. I think the last indie song that was hugely popular was Rahman’s Vande Mataram. A film song is grander than an indie song because you can afford to spend on it – there’s a hero and a heroine, there are bigger sets and a greater visibility. But, we might not get the same kind of fund to shoot a single.
 
 
 
 
