VISAKHAPATNAM:   reportedly continued to tumble out of   ( ) K Sanjeeva Rao’s closets on Monday as officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) continued their raids on the tainted officer’s properties on the third consecutive day.

 ACB cops reportedly unearthed another 33 cents of land at Fakeer Takya near Islampeta, close to Steel Plant, on Monday during the raids at Rao’s private office near Kinnera Theatre. The lands were registered in the name of a benami called Daniel and were bought last year.
 
 ACB officials opened Rao’s private office in his presence after he was discharged from a corporate hospital in the city where he was admitted on Saturday. He had fallen unconscious shortly after the ACB had begun its raids on Saturday.
 
 Two lockers - one in SBI’s Dondaparthi branch and another in Vijaya Bank’s Maharani Branch - in the name of his associate Rapeti Appa Rao, were opened by the cops. The Dondaparthi branch locker had 336 grams of gold ornaments while the Maharani branch locker had 390 grams of gold ornaments in the name of Appa Rao’s daughter.
 
 Rao was also found in possession of 26 records including adangals and maps of lands and other records of Cluster V and Allipuram extension where he had worked earlier. He had not submitted those records even after being transferred from those places. All these records were submitted to concerned VROs by the ACB on Monday.
 
 The tainted officer’s properties may be worth a total of Rs 150 crore, say ACB officials who suspect that Rao might own illegal property outside the state too. According to reliable sources, Rao has allegedly bought property in tourist places like Ooty and Kodaikanal in Tamil Nadu. Now, the ACB cops are on a mission to unearth all illegal properties owned by Rao and are going to open another bank locker owned by him on Tuesday.
 
 The officer, who joined government service in 2008, had floated a real estate firm in the name of Aditya Vardhan Builders and Developers and had planned to go for a layout of several acres worth Rs 40 crore at Kottavalasa in Vizianagaram district, close to Vizag city. According to sources, he had paid Rs 67 lakh through RTGS to a farmer for land. He allegedly purchased each acre at Rs 20 lakh.
 
 The VRO has been acquiring land on benami names, most of them in the names of his associates Daniel, Rapeti Appa Rao and others were made as executive directors in the Kottavalasa venture that was named as Sanjeeva Vanam, ACB DSP K Ramakrishna Prasad told TOI.
 
 Rao might have forced several landowners into parting with their property by threatening them with a button knife and a cigarette lighter that resembled a gun, sources said.
 
 
