GURUGRAM: The   has terminated the employment of three of its health staff, after they were accused of negligence of duty by an internal inquiry for the February 9 débâcle in the hospital premises, when a woman was forced to deliver a baby in its courtyard. 

 The inquiry report, which was submitted on Thursday, also sought explanation for the laxity from a senior doctor. It has also been decided that from now onwards, the hospital will maintain a daily report of all   and new mothers visiting it. 
 
 On Thursday, state health department ordered action against three health employees — Dr Mohini, staff nurse Manita and emergency medical technician (EMT) Manoj. The order states that explanation should be taken from all three for negligence of duty, and their service contracts be terminated. Dr Pawan Chaudhary, a senior doctor, has been asked to submit his explanation for “lackadaisical attitude”, despite him being in-charge of the emergency ward at the time of the fiasco.
 
 A 25-year-old woman delivered a baby in a cycle stand in front of the emergency ward of   on February 9, after doctors and nurses delayed her admission. The woman writhed in pain for almost two hours without any medical care, after she was sent off by Dr Mohini to get an ultrasound done before admission, and the test was denied for want of an Aadhaar card. 
 
 Finally, she gave birth to a girl in the cycle stand. Fortunately, mother and child did not suffer any complication during delivery, which was assisted by attendants of other patients.
 
 Later, chief medical officer B K Rajora suspended on-duty medical officer Dr Mohini and staff nurse Manita for denying immediate admission to the pregnant woman, and sending her for a test that was not crucial at that moment. Citing the incident as unfortunate, Union health minister J P Nadda also ordered a probe.
 
 A two-member state health department team conducted the inquiry. Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj and Dr V K Bansal observed that EMT Manoj had brought the woman and her husband to the hospital at around 10am, but, instead of taking her to the maternity ward, he had dropped them off in the hospital premises to seek treatment on their own. Dr Mohini is a junior resident doctor currently on deputation from Translational Health Science and Technology Institute. She had asked the patient to get an ultrasound done when she was brought in. Ideally, she should have immediately sent her for delivery, considering she was in labour. Staff nurse Savita was primarily supposed to assist the patient, including in getting the ultrasound done. 
 
 Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh inaugurated a dedicated Pregnant Woman Reception Room (PWRR) at the hospital on Thursday morning. It has been set up outside the emergency ward. Besides, a daily report of how many pregnant women and new mothers visit the hospital and seek treatment will be compiled from the labour room, emergency and maternity wards, to be submitted to the chief and principal medical officers by respective ward in-charges.
 
 The initiative to improve functioning of the hospital has inadvertently brought in focus the shortage of staff at the hospital’s gynaecology ward. According to hospital records, there are only six doctors in the ward who deal with 200-250 pregnant women every day.
 
 
