NEW DELHI: Senior medical staff members of Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in east Delhi’s   area were booked for causing grievous hurt after they left a towel inside a woman’s stomach during her caesarian delivery.

 Police sources said that the case was registered after an opinion from a panel of medical expert was taken following the filing of complaint by the woman’s husband.
 
 A preliminary probe has revealed that the woman, identified as Kiran, had got admitted in the hospital on February 24, 2016 after having labour pain. Kiran underwent a caesarian  , which was conducted by a team of doctors and nurses.
 
 It emerged that after the surgery, a towel, which was used in the operation, got left behind inside the woman’s stomach. Soon after the operation, Kiran started feeling acute pain in her stomach continuously.
 
 The family alleged that the doctors were informed about the pain and even after examining her multiple times, they couldn’t get a proper diagnosis for her pain. Kiran remained in that condition for more than a year.
 
 Finally, the couple went to another hospital in May 2017, where it was found that a towel, used during the delivery of her child, was still inside her stomach. Kiran was again operated upon and the towel was removed after the surgery.
 
 The woman’s husband said that her wife’s life was at risk due to the   by the medical staff. “My wife’s health severely deteriorated during the time the towel was inside her stomach. Her health is still fragile because of the doctor’s mistake. We were never given a satisfactory reply by the medical team about my wife’s health,” her husband said in the complaint, adding that he incurred approximately Rs 10 lakh for the treatment to remove the towel.
 
 A senior police officer said that cops have initiated an investigation into the case and efforts are on to identify the doctors responsible. 
 
 Authorities at the Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital were, however, unavailable for a comment till the time of filing this report.
 
 
