In the latest episode of Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah,   is terrified of the consequences he would have to face after Bhide gets up and finds his scooter missing. 

 
 The scene shifts to Bhide’s house, where Madhavi finds her husband sound asleep even at 8.20 in the morning. Sonu finds this unusual but they decide not to wake him up. They then welcome some relatives at home, who invite Sonu, Madhavi and Bhide to join them on a trip to Lonavala water park. They get excited. Just then Anjali enters their home to take lemons for the juice she is making for Taarak. She learns about their trip and wishes them a great time. 
 
 After she leaves, Madhavi and her relatives try to wake up Bhide, but he continues to sleep due to the Ayurvedic hair oil that Madhavi had applied the previous night. Madhavi seeks permission from him to go to the water park with Sonu. An asleep Bhide signs her to go. They begin to get ready.
 
 Meanwhile, Anjali tells Taarak that Madhavi, Bhide and his family are going to the water park, unlike them who are always stuck due to his work. This surprises Taarak and he begins to wonder what will happen when Bhide would find the scooter missing. He makes a conference call to Jethalal, Hathi and Sodhi. He informs them that Bhide is going with his family to Lonavala and there is a car that is waiting in the compound. This makes all three of them nervous since they had not left for the godown. 
 
 Hathi, Sodhi and Jetha seek Taarak’s help, and he tells them to stay at home. He decides to keep a watch on the car.
 
 Madhavi and Sonu leave with their relatives. Taarak sees them going and rejoices, thinking even Bhide has left with them. He calls Jetha, Sodhi and Hathi and tricks them by telling them that Bhide has learnt about the entire episode. All three get worried and meet Taarak in the compound, as he had instructed them to. Taarak then gives them the good news, that Bhide has left with his family. Initially they don’t believe him, but Taarak convinces them eventually. 
 
 
