Coimbatore: The depreciation of the rupee and rising gas costs would increase the urea subsidy bill by Rs 9,000 crore. Retail prices of P&K (phosphorous and potassium) fertilisers are also expected to go up due to the weak rupee.

 The rupee has depreciated nearly 7.2% against the US dollar since the start of 2018 and 4.9% since the beginning of 2018-19. The domestic fertiliser industry is largely dependent on imports to meet its raw material requirements for both urea as well as the P&K segment and finished fertilisers. Urea players have been witnessing an increase in gas costs, which coupled with the depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar, will push up the cost of production.
 
 “For one US dollar rise in gas costs, the cost of production for urea rises by Rs1,800-2,000 per metric tonne (MT) while for every one rupee depreciation against US dollar, the same rises by Rs 240 per MT at a constant gas price,” ratings agency ICRA said.
 
 “The GoI’s (Government of India) urea subsidy bill for FY2019 (2018-19) is expected to reach around Rs 54,000 crore against budgetary allocation of Rs 45,000 crore, driven by rising gas costs and  ,” said K Ravichandran, senior vice president and group head, corporate ratings, ICRA.
 
 “With the recent currency depreciation, domestic fertiliser industry is expected to face headwinds as it is highly import dependent,” he said. P&K players have also witnessed rising raw material prices in recent quarters, particularly for phosphoric acid.
 
 As a result, P&K players had increased retail prices in February 2018. The NBS (nutrient-based subsidy) rates for phosphates was also increased for FY2019, which will enable the industry to conserve their contribution margins despite rising raw material prices.
 
 “For P&K manufacturers, the increased cost of production because of recent increase in the raw material prices and the currency depreciation is expected to result in moderation of contribution margins unless the companies can pass on the increased cost of production to the end users,” said Varun Gogia, analyst, ICRA. 
 
 ICRA expects P&K fertiliser companies to undertake price increase to conserve their profitability for the upcoming kharif season. “However, energy efficient urea manufacturers are not expected to witness any significant challenges from currency depreciation as the increased cost of production will be a pass-through to the GoI in the form of subsidy, while increased interest costs would be offset by the higher energy savings,” Ravichandran said.
 
 
