LUDHIANA: The state election commission on Sunday ordered repolling at booth number 2 ( ) and 3 (senior citizen's home) of ward 44 due to difference in number of votes in the register and the EVM. 

 The voting will be held on Monday from 8am to 4pm at both the booths that have over 1,656 registered voters. The decision is being hailed as victory by the candidates of Opposition parties and Independents. Ever since voting began at ward 44 on Saturday, they had been alleging that Congress workers, at the behest of MLA Kuldeep Vaid (father of Congress candidate  ), were trying to cast bogus votes and even attempted booth capturing.
 
 However, after repolling was ordered, social media became agog with messages claiming that the number of votes cast at these booths had exceeded the total number of voters registered.
 
 But laying to rest all such claims, deputy commissioner-cum-district election officer (DEO)   said, "These are rumours. We requested for repolling at these booths on being informed by the presiding officers that there was a slight difference in EVM count of votes and those noted in the registers of the booths. This happened because during lunch hour some voters could not sign the register before casting their vote on EVM. But there is no way that the number of votes polled at any booth has exceeded the total number of voters."
 
 "Throughout Saturday, we received numerous complaints regarding people trying to barge into polling booths or trying to cast bogus votes, so we did not take any chances and ordered double verification of the votes polled," he added.
 
 Meetpal Dugri, SAD candidate, told the TOI, "We are thankful to the state election commission. Throughout the day, the Congress candidate's supporters tried booth capturing and casting bogus votes. Several times they succeeded in entering the polling booths and maybe they were able to cast votes. We had permission for videography of the booths, but we were not allowed to do so by the police."
 
 As many as 452 votes were polled in booth number 2, which had 670 registered voters. Against 986 registered voters, 599 votes were polled at booth number 3.
 
 
