KOLKATA:   hopes to introduce a mobile-based e-ticketing system in the next 3-4 months. Once the system is in place, those with smartphones will no longer have to queue up for tokens.   is also in talks with banks to create an e-wallet that will enable daily passengers to recharge smart cards online.

 
 “A contract has already been awarded to the Centre for   (CRIS) to create the software that would run this system. This will cost Rs 1.5 crore-Rs 2 crore and they have already started working on the project. Very soon, Metro will be signing a sort of Memorandum of Understanding with CRIS with all details,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said.
 
 
 Under the e-ticketing system, people would have to download an app on their smartphones and select the originating and destination stations. They can then pay using an e-wallet. Once a ticket is purchased, a quick response or QR code will be generated. Passengers will just have to flash these on the sensors of the smart gates to take a ride.
 
 
 Metro has been trying for long to introduce a mobile ticketing system to reduce queues at booking counters. Successive railway ministers have also insisted on reducing queues at counters and Indian Railways ultimately wants to reach a point when no passenger has to spend more than five minutes at a booking counter. Metro Railway general manager   has repeatedly asked officials to ensure that all ticket counters remain open, particularly during the peak hours. However, even when all counters are open, there are long queues at some of the busier stations.
 
 
 “Our general manager is very keen to introduce the mobile ticketing system that will reduce inconvenience for passengers. Those using smart cards will also benefit. We expect CRIS to come up with the system within 3-4 months. The smart gates will have to be made compatible to read the QR codes. We plan to make changes at the gates in a phased manner,” Banerjee added.
 
 
 For quite some time now, Metro has been discouraging the use of tokens by daily passengers and urging them to use smart cards instead. Collecting tokens from the bins and maintaining sufficient stocks of tokens at stations is a logistics nightmare, particularly when 500-600 of them are lost every day. The tokens have no intrinsic value but a loss of one of them sets back the Metro by Rs 18.98. Metro has a stock of nearly 2,50,000 tokens and nearly 70,000 of them are used every day.
 
