Know all about Bihar   (BTET) examination, syllabus, exam pattern, eligibility, selection process, notification & preparation tips.

 The   (BTET) examination is conducted every year by   to recruit teachers for all the govt run and private schools in the state. 
 
 All the candidates who have B.Ed. certificate and want to make a career in teaching field in the state can apply for the BTET examination. The   examination is conducted in an online mode. 
 
 
 
 
 The   releases the notification regarding the examination on its officially website or in newspapers. The candidates are advised to keep an eye on the official website of the Bihar Education Board's website to check the update regarding Bihar Teacher Eligibility Test (TET). The same will be uploaded here as well. 
 
 
 
 
 The Bihar TET Applications can be filled online through the official website. The information regarding the release of the online application form links will be updated here once the official notification is out.
 
 
 
 
 Here is the Bihar TET Paper - I and Paper – II Examination Pattern in detail:
 
 
 
 
 Child development & Pedagogy - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Mathematics - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language 1 - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language 2 - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Environmental Studies - 30 questions - 30 marks
 
 
 
 
 Child development & Pedagogy - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language 1 - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language 2 - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Science & Mathematics OR Social Science - 60 questions - 60 marks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 50% marks and passed or appearing in final year of 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education/ passed or appearing in final year of 4-year Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.El.Ed)
 
 * Senior Secondary with at least 45% marks and have also passed or appearing in final year of 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education or Graduation and passed or appearing in final year of two-year Diploma in Elementary Education.
 
 
 
 
 * Graduation and passed or appearing in final year of 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education or Graduation with at least 50% marks and passed or appearing in 1-year Bachelor in Education (B.Ed)/ passed or appearing in final year of 4-year Bachelor in Elementary Education B.El.Ed/B.A/B.Sc.Ed or B.A.Ed/B.Sc.Ed.
 
 * Graduation with at least 45% marks and passed or appearing in 1- year Bachelor in Education (B.Ed).
 
 
 
 
 Admit card for the Bihar TET has not been released yet. Once the date is notified by Bihar education department, the same will be updated here.
 
 
 
 
 The Bihar Board of Education will upload a notification regarding the announcement of Bihar TET result on the official website. 
 
