THANE: Five persons have been arrested for posing as officials from the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and assaulting a coaching class owner on April 28 at Teen Haath petrol pump. 

 The accused have been identified as Manojkumar Prasad, Mohit Verma, Mithilesh Mukhiya, Suraj   and  , who is the main accused in the case.
 
 According to the police, on April 28, the accused went to the coaching class and asked the owner, Allwyn Xavier Perez (39) to come out. They posed as   and told him that their senior officer wants to speak to him. When Perez refused to budge, they forcibly tried to drag him out and manhandled him. The other staff at the class intervened and one person told the accused that everything was being recorded. Hearing this, the accused left Perez and fled the scene. 
 
 The victim then lodged a complaint with the   police who registered a complaint under Sections 452, 170, 143, 146 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The cops then started a manhunt for the accused, said DCP (zone 1) D S Swamy.
 
 The cops initially checked the CCTV footage in the vicinity and finally nailed the accused. He was arrested on Sunday.
 
 “Preliminary investigations revealed that the complainant was in a relationship with a friend of one of the accused. Due to some problems, the couple split. To avenge this, the accused went to Perez’s classes and manhandled him. The accused have been remanded to police custody for further probe,” the police said.
 
 During investigations the police also learnt that the accused had gone with the intention of smearing black paint on Perez’s face. 
 
 The police said that Prasad, Verma, Mukhiya and Pawar are residents of Mumbai and have cases of cheating and other kinds of rackets against them. It is learnt that the cops are probing the case from all the angles.
 
 Preliminary investigations revealed that the complainant was in a relationship with a friend of one of the accused. Due to some problems, the couple split. and the complainant had abandoned her. To avenge this, the accused manhandled Perez
 
 
