AHMEDABAD: The   in the sensational Rs  ,  , 23, has confessed to   that his original plan was to execute a robbery. But, he has told the cops, he was deterred by the presence of armed security and decided to drug the personnel.

 Badhel was arrested by crime branch officials on Saturday from Sukhaiya in UP and brought to the city on Sunday morning. “His accomplice Mukesh Yadav, an ex-armyman is yet to be arrested. If Badhel is to be believed Yadav is in possession of the cash which was stolen from van after drugging the gunmen and two other employees of the cash management company,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 Yadav had worked in the army for four years and had then decamped with a jeep. Since then, he had been living in Chandkheda.
 
 It was Yadav who had planned the robbery and had help Badhel get the job as a driver of the  . Badhel was earlier working with Abohar Civil Hospital in Punjab.
 
 “They had fabricated the identity documents of Badhel to avoid being arrested after the robbery. Later they drugged the other cash van employees with sleeping pills in tea and decamped on a bike with the cash on February 23, 2018,” said an investigator.
 
 Crime branch officials said the accused had also planned a safe house to keep the cash and for the purpose had rented a house in Sarkhej area of the city.
 
 “However, on the day when the two went to the house with the trunk containing cash, a woman became suspicious and questioned them. This was the first clue which they had got in the case,” an investigator said.
 
 The woman's alarm got the duo running and they fled from Sarkhej. On the way they abandoned the trunk and put the cash in a bag. They drove to Karel town of Rajasthan. There, according to Badhel, Yadav hid the bag containing cash in some hotel and disappeared, said asenior crime branch official.
 
 Cops probing employees of cash management firm
 Crime branch officials said they are suspecting involvement of some other employees of the CMS cash management company in the daring theft. “We have also dispatched teams to several states to nab Mukesh Yadav, whom we suspect is in possession of the cash,” said a crime branch official. TNN
 
