NAGPUR: Keeping in mind the ever increasing number of litigants and lawyers, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court reserved about seven acres of land in the vicinity for future expansion.

 A division bench comprising Justice   and Justice Murlidhar Giratkar also directed respondent-authorities to take necessary steps to protect the reserved land from any encroachment.
 
 The directives came while hearing a suo motu PIL (No.7/2015) which was clubbed with   (HCBA) case on litigants and lawyers suffering from scorching temperatures during summers, especially in Vidarbha. 
 
 HCBA counsel Sudhir Puranik pointed out that though all bar rooms in Mumbai were fitted with ACs, nothing was done for other benches. He also brought to the fore the issue of inadequate space in existing bar rooms in the HC to accommodate ever growing numbers of lawyers.
 
 In the last hearing on March 27, the bench had directed collector to identify a plot in the vicinity which could be kept reserved for construction of additional building as and when required. Subsequently, additional government pleader   submitted government’s communication stating that the area admeasuring 28,245.62 square metres in Survey No. 5/1, 5/4 and 6/2, as shown in 7/12 extract, is under its ownership. 
 
 The HC had earlier asked a specially constituted panel to prepare plans for construction of the annexe building on earlier two acres plot behind PWD chief engineer’s bungalow, opposite HC’s exit gate. The panel comprises — registrar (administration), HCBA president, PWD executive engineers, and its deputy chief architect.
 
 “Taking into consideration the need of future extension, it will be appropriate that the piece of land nearby be kept reserved for construction of additional building as and when required,” the judges said, before directing the collector to identify the land.
 
 The HCBA had suggested that sufficient land was available in PWD’s bungalow located exactly opposite to the court’s exit gate for constructing bar rooms for lawyers. However, the government opposed the move, clarifying that a resolution of 1990 prohibits it from selling its land to private parties.
 
 The HCBA counsel then said that they had submitted a detailed representation for grant of additional land to CM on December 12, 2014.
 
 He pointed out that the palatial PWD bungalow was spread over a huge area of six acres of which they need only two acres for new bar rooms.
 
 The HC then came out in support of lawyers clarifying that they were an integral part of justice dispensation system and their grievances must be addressed. The judges suggested to the government to transfer the land to high court registry which would allot it to the HCBA.
 
 
