NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old boy and his eight-year-old sister died in a fire at their house in Adarsh Nagar on Friday night. Their parents were not at home when, according to other family members, sparks from a malfunctioning air conditioner stared a blazed that gutted the first floor of the four-storey building in northwest Delhi.

 After bringing the fire under control, firemen found the bodies of Sarthak Garg and his younger sister, Akshara Garg. While the boy had died of asphyxiation in the bathroom where he had sought refuge, the girl had suffered critical burns when trying to run out of the room.
 
 Fire officials said that they were alerted to the fire at 11.14pm on Friday. The 12 fire tenders that were sent to the inferno were able to bring the situation under control by 12.40am. Cooling operations continued till dawn.
 
 Aslam Khan, DCP (northwest), said that police had invoked sections of the Indian Penal Code related to endangering of life or personal safety of others (Section 336) and causing death due to negligence (304A) while registering a case. Further investigations are being carried out.
 
 The children’s uncle, Anurag Garg, a Congress leader who had contested the last municipal elections, disclosed that the two children of his younger brother, Vineet, who had gone to attend a wedding with his wife, were sleeping with their grandmother in the first-floor room. Anurag’s wife and his two kids were sleeping on the ground floor.
 
 “Seeing the sparking in the air conditioner, my mother walked down to the ground floor to turn off the power at the mains,” said Anurag. “However, by the time she managed to do this, flames had engulfed the room in which Sarthak and Akshara were sleeping. The staircase too was ablaze and no one could do much to help the two kids.”
 
 Preliminary findings showed that the bedsheet caught fire and the flames then spread to the faux leather furniture. The bedroom wall had a flammable foam coating, which most likely caused the fire to spread quickly across the room. Akshara woke up and tried to run down to the ground floor but was caught in the blaze and suffered burn injuries. Sarthak ran to the bathroom and locked himself in, but the dense smoke suffocated him to death.
 
 Other family members escaped unhurt after rushing to the ground floor and exiting the building. The Gargs’ tenants, Rita Arora on the third floor and Arun and Rekha Jain on the fourth floor, saved themselves by reaching the terrace and then hopping over to the neighbouring house.
 
 
