KOLKATA: Chief minister   took full advantage of the first-time direct telecast of her reply to the governor’s address in the assembly to target the   government over the mega sops he had announced for farmers. 

 “It’s a bluff. The BJP government at the Centre doesn’t know how to manage things. It should have waived farmers’ loans if it was really pro-farmer. It didn’t when as many as 12,000 peasants killed themselves across the country,” the CM said.
 
 Banerjee also took a dig at finance minister Arun Jaitley’s mega health insurance scheme. “I haven’t seen the wherewithal to support such a scheme. And, this is nothing new. We have made medical treatment in government hospitals free and introduced Swasta Sathi that gives a Rs 5-lakh insurance cover to many people in the state.”
 
 Members from the Left and   had a taste of her aggression after they jointly staged a walkout in the assembly on Friday. “They (CPM and Congress) are afraid of listening to the government’s reply. They come to the House making wild allegations. I have no problem listening to constructive criticism. But they see no good in this state. Such blind opposition has pushed them to this state of isolation,” the CM said, a day after her party swept the bypolls in Uluberia and Noapara. 
 
 She pointed out that the combined vote share of three parties (BJP, CPM and Congress) put together was way behind that of her party. She also ridiculed the opposition for accusations of vote loot by the ruling party. “Not a single voter has come to me saying s/he couldn’t vote. The central observers are not our men. The central forces were not deployed by the government,”   said.
 
 Mocking leader of opposition Abdul Mannan, who left the floor along with CPM’s Sujan Chakrabarty, she said: “Congress in Delhi badly needs Trinamool.   congratulated me for the massive victory in the bypolls. I also congratulated her for Congress’ victory in Rajasthan bypolls. “You are a small fry. You better go and give bites to the audio-visual media,” the CM said.
 
 
