CHENNAI: “The foetal heart beat just stopped,” said a sanitary worker. “We had to save you,” said a nurse. “You can always have a baby again,” said a woman on the next bed, cradling her newborn. Engulfed in grief and guilt, Savitha* wanted an explanation from her doctor on why her child was born dead. She didn’t get one.

 A year on, the 26-year-old continues to struggle to come to terms with the loss – a journey she feels she has embarked on alone despite her family’s attempts to reach out to her. There were others like her. The narratives of at least seven other women in the city who had experienced a   were documented by three researchers from government hospitals. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Only one of them knew why her firstborn was dead. The rest directed their ire at public healthcare facilities that failed to respond when they sought answers. 
 
 Stillbirth has serious   consequences on the parents and on the family, research from across the world has shown. Dr Vijayaprasad Gopichandran, assistant professor, department of community medicine at  , along with his peers at  , set out to understand the impact of stillbirth among eight women — including  ,   and   — who attended the primary healthcare facilities in Chennai and the outskirts. All of them had lost their babies between the 36th and 38th week of pregnancy.
 
 “All of them perceived stillbirth to be a very sudden, and frustrating experience, especially because the exact cause was not explained to them clearly,” said Gopichandran. As a result, they ended up blaming people in their lives, especially themselves. Some found solace by attributing it to the supernatural – “My uncle’s dissatisfied spirit must have taken the baby,” said a woman, who was among those interviewed.
 
 One of the strongest narratives that emerged in the study, which was published recently in the journal  , was that of the poor quality of the health system. The women felt the doctors, nurses and health care providers were “insensitive”. When asked the reason, the response was similar: Doctors and nurses were always on the defensive without giving an explanation. “The doctor said that in government hospital they can provide only these services, if we want more, we should go to private ones,” said the mother-in-law of a woman who had a stillborn. Sometimes the apathy came to the fore even before the delivery. “When I was admitted to the labour ward, I had pain all night. The nurse on morning duty didn’t turn up so they had to call in someone who was off duty on a Sunday morning. She was clearly irritated and she took it out on me,” said a mother. Some of them also said there was a lack of continuity in care with frequent change of health care providers in shifts and higher incidence of mistakes due to poor communication between staff. “I had to repeat the same thing to multiple people on different shifts – that I couldn’t feel my baby moving, that my baby was dead. It was a long time before they confirmed what I already knew,” said another mother. 
 
 Researchers also interview healthcare providers who admitted there could have been an oversight. But they blamed it on PHCs being under-staffed and people being overworked. Community health workers, on the other hand, say they are caught in the crossfire between the health facility staff and the family.
 
 Dr N Palaniappan, chair of safe motherhood committee, the federation of obstetric and gynaecological societies of India, said in 90% of all still birth, the cause is not known even after an autopsy. “These mothers need closure. The death may not have been their responsibility but an explanation is,” he said. 
 
 
