BENGALURU: The department of pre-university (PU) education, which had earlier issued a circular saying   must begin on May 14, is likely to postpone the date as ICSE and   results for Class 10 are yet to be declared. While   will be out on May 14, CBSE is yet to announce the date.

 A senior official from DPUE confirmed that commencement of I PU classes will be deferred. “This is because SSLC results were delayed and ICSE and CBSE results are yet to be announced. We don’t want students to be worried or confused,” the official said, adding that DPUE is likely to communicate the decision formally in the next couple of days.
 
 Unaware of the development, students from the SSLC board — whose results were announced on Monday —flooded PU colleges to apply for admission with provisional marks cards on Tuesday. Colleges too didn’t have clarity on whether they should wait for ICSE and CBSE results, and if they do, for how long.
 
 National PU College in Jayanagar said admissions will remain open for ICSE and CBSE students without specifying a date. KLE PU College authorities said they have three seats each reserved for CBSE and ICSE students. “But the students have to apply before May 16 and will get admissions based on their results. We will begin classes from the last week of May or first week of June,” said an authority from the admissions department.
 
 Seshadripuram PU College was unaware of any circular from the PU department on commencement of classes from May 14. Admission authorities said they will offer the remaining seats to students from other boards after admitting SSLC students. 
 
 Several other PU colleges were confused about reopening on May 14 as they feared the admission process may not be over within a week. ICSE and CBSE students are distressed. Exams were advanced due to the assembly elections, as a result of which classes were scheduled a month in advance.
 
 -Priya Bhat M and Jennifer H Charles
 
 Limited seats
 
 We have been told that our results will be announced on May 14 but the PU department’s decision has left me worried and confused. I hope it doesn’t affect my admission as limited seats will be left by then 
 
 —Lakshan C | ICSE student from Kumarans Public School
 
 
