MUMBAI/PUNE: n aptitude test held for class X students by the   has thrown up some surprising results, raising doubts over its credibility. The test reveals around 17% of   students have an aptitude for agriculture. It is the second highest after commerce in the city (21%), and is alongside another group of 17% students that showed interest in fine arts.

 
  
 
 The results of the aptitude tests were released on Saturday in Pune. In the state, the highest number of students—about 21% of the 17.3 lakh who took the test—has an aptitude for commerce followed by those (18%) showing keenness in pursuing fine arts. Only about 10% of the total students who gave the test have shown an inclination towards the technical field. Last year, the   had shown an aptitude towards fine arts.
 
 Hetal R, a class X student, said she was surprised to see agriculture as her aptitude in the test. “Many of the questions in the test were from agriculture, so we do not know how this result was arrived at,” she added.
 
 Father  , principal of a city-based school, said the results raise a doubt over the exercise. “The students must have filled the test in ignorance or they may not be aware of the process. It does not seem to be reflecting the aptitude of students,” he said.
 
 The state government has spent over Rs 1 crore out of the corporate social responsibility ( ) funds it has received for the aptitude test over the past two years. However, an impact assessment of whether the aptitude results are taken seriously by the students and parents, and actually convert into admissions in the designated streams in first-year junior college has not been done yet. Commissioner of education Vishal Solanki said, “A total of 17.3 lakh students appeared for this examination. So the amount spent from Corporate social responsibility funds is Rs 1.73 crore.”
 
 Educationists feel there is an urgent need for impact assessment of the entire programme to find loopholes in the system. Matin Mujawar, education activist, said, “Firstly, the government needs to reduce the dropout rate after Class X. Even if not a full-fledged survey, the government at least needs to conduct a pilot test to see how many students choose the same field of study that came out of the result,” said Mujawar.
 
 Officials conducting the aptitude test said that they are thinking of such an assessment next year. The initiative was started in 2016 and is conducted by the state board, Maharashtra Academy Authority and Shyamchi Aai Foundation. Students are divided into seven fields of interests: arts, commerce, technical, health sciences, uniformed services, agriculture and fine arts. Students were asked 140 questions and based on the answers, their aptitude was decided.
 
 Students can download their results by entering their SSC examination seat number on 
 .
 
 “There are many options on the website giving specific information on various fields like the number of colleges in a particular course, various courses within a discipline, etc. There are informative videos too that students can watch,” said Sheetal Bapat, founder director, Shaymchi Aai Foundation.
 
