GURGAON: As aggrieved homebuyers continue their fight against   in the  , some   have alleged the struggling real estate company has not paid them salaries for months and also defaulted on depositing tax deducted at source (TDS) and provident fund with the authorities.

 Around 2,000 employees claim are affected — 1,300 who have left since 2013 and 700 who are still serving in Unitech’s offices in Gurgaon, Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, according to current staffers. Employees claimed total arrears worked out crores. Unitech did not revert to calls, messages or an email sent to their official address.
 
 After writing to various government offices, including the Prime Minister’s Office and chief minister’s office, a group of Unitech employees is now planning to move the Supreme Court. “While the apex court has been working towards the interests of the homebuyers hit by massive delays in delivery of several projects, employees like us have been forgotten. We hope the court hears our pleas as well,” said a former civil engineer of Unitech.
 
 The Supreme Court had on October 30 asked Unitech to deposit Rs 750 crore by December-end 2017 to ensure refund to homebuyers. “Some of us even had to endure pressure from the income tax department — notices were sent to us demanding payment of income tax due to the default of Unitech in depositing the TDS,” said another former employee, who served as design engineer at the realtor’s Gurgaon office.
 
 
  
 Some serving employees say their situation is perhaps worse as they can neither leave the organisation nor stay there. “I joined the company around a year back and my first   itself was six months late. But after that it hasn’t come at all. As of now, my salary is due for nine months,” said a senior employee of Unitech. “My savings also have dried up by now and I have bills to pay,” he added.
 
 New job interviews can also get embarrassing as they are asked often asked what went on inside Unitech, one of them said. A former employee claimed about 1,300 staffers had left Unitech since 2013 and they were still to be paid.
 
 In a recent response to an employee’s complaint to the additional labour commissioner, Gurgaon, the developer responded, “Due to the current circumstances and the crunch caused by the current sluggish demand scenario in the real estate sector, it is taking time for us to release this payment.”
 
 
