HYDERABAD: New norms by the   Technological University, Hyderabad linking college affiliation process to biometric attendance, common service fee dues and academic performance of students have drawn flak from college managements, who voiced their objections at a meeting held on Saturday. 

 On January 17, JNTU-H had released the procedures and regulations booklet for college affiliation for the 2018-19 academic year. JNTU-H vice-chancellor   held a meeting with college management representatives on Saturday to discuss not only the affiliation procedures and regulations but also measures to be taken for imparting quality education. This included implementation of   (AICTE) model curriculum and mandatory induction and internship programs, among other issues.
 
 During the meeting, engineering colleges raised severe objection to the university's decision to disaffiliate colleges that fail to clear the common service fee dues. According to sources, over 1.5 crore dues are yet to be paid by the engineering colleges. 
 
 "We argued that the Telangana government has not released the fee reimbursement dues, owing to which we are in no position to clear the common service fee dues. It is unfair that the university has linked affiliation process to the common service fee dues despite knowing the Telangana government's failure in clearing the fee reimbursement dues," said  , president of Telangana Private Engineering Colleges Association. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Engineering college management representatives also raised objection to the linking of academic performance of students to affiliation. As per the norms, the academic performance of the colleges (course wise) will be taken into account while granting affiliation and the same will be based on the pass percentage of the students, percentage of detentions (both credits and attendance) and number of student dropouts. 
 
 "The students are allotted to colleges based on the counselling by the university. Even the curriculum and exam pattern is fixed by the university. How can the university hold only the colleges responsible for poor academic performance of students?" Rao asked. 
 
 The engineering colleges, however, agreed to implement the model curriculum fixed by AICTE. The colleges also encouraged the move to have induction and internship programs for students to improve the quality of education.
 
 
