What was originally planned to be his engagement ceremony turned into nikah for  . The actor married Lucknow girl   in a quiet ceremony on March 16 in the City of Nawabs, which is also his hometown. Ayaz says, “Amish and I have been acquaintances, as our families have known each other for many years. My mother was in talks with her family regarding the alliance. We were planning to have an engagement ceremony now, followed by the wedding and reception in November or December, as it would have been easier for my brothers, who are settled in the UK, to attend the functions with their children. However, my mother and Amish’s family suddenly decided to go ahead with the nikah, as they didn’t want to delay the wedding by another eight months. We got just one week to prepare for it. In fact, I turned up in denims for the nikah, as I wasn’t carrying anything more formal than that. I bought a sherwani for the dinner though, (laughs).”

 The actor says that he couldn’t have asked for a better life partner. “The past two weeks have been blissful. She even wears chooda, which is not in our culture, just for me. She remembered my mother telling her that I love seeing brides in choodas. At the end of the day, you just want to be happy and at peace with your partner. Usually, in an arranged set-up, you have to put on a front at least for some time. But I can be myself with her, as she is a friend first. She isn’t talkative like me. The other day, I asked her what she loves about me and she said, ‘I am fortunate to have got a happy and funny husband and not a boring and serious one’,” he says.
 
 He adds, “I hope we don’t have to work towards a happy married life and that it happens organically.”
 
 Interestingly, it was Ayaz’s close friends,   and  , who posted a picture of the newly-weds, sending the media into a tizzy. He says, “The marriage happened suddenly. In fact, most of my friends got to know about it on the day of the nikah, when I texted, asking them to be ready for a surprise. I don’t see any reason to announce my wedding on social media. This quiet and surprise wedding has been the best decision, as it was quite stress-free.” The couple plans to have a reception later this year.
 
