NAVI MUMBAI:   has decided to soon tender a plot measuring 6.5 hectares in Nerul’s sector 27 for developing a residential-cum-commercial complex. The town planning body has tagged the project ‘Iconic City’ with the aim of creating “an inception of a gem in Navi Mumbai’s iconic development”. 

 The project, as per Cidco sources, is estimated to bring in a revenue inflow of over Rs 400 crore with Rs 70,000 as the base price per square meter. 
 
 Being close to the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA) and located opposite  , the project has been aimed at targeting high-end buyers and is expected to provide plush amenities. The mini township promises high-end living. 
 
 Reaching the second international airport will be a 4km drive, expected to take just around eight minutes, thanks to the proximity and new road infrastructure. 
 
 The property cost would also be far less than its equivalent in Santacruz (West). Cidco sources said flat buyers in ‘Iconic City’ will have to shell out Rs 20,000 to Rs 22,000 per square foot. According to president of builders’ association of Navi Mumbai, Haresh Cheda, the carpet area rate for a similar project in Santacruz (W) would be Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 per square foot.
 
 The base price for the land will be pegged at Rs 70,000 per square meter, said consultant marketing (Cidco), Vivek Marathe. “We expect to get four times the price. Cidco has done the layout for the plot to develop a residential-cum-commercial complex and it will be on the lines of Seawoods Estate or   complex,” he added. 
 
 There has been a bit of delay in the tendering process as new managing director Lokesh Chandra, who took charge on May 10, is yet to be briefed about the project details, Cidco sources said. The tendering for the plot was earlier scheduled to start from May 15. 
 
 Cidco marketing officer Ameet Shinde told TOI on Sunday, “We have had a discussion with the Cidco managing director and another round of discussion is scheduled after which the booklet will be published and the tendering process will start. The booklet will give the terms and conditions of the project.” The tender advertisement is expected to be out soon, he said.
 
 Cidco senior PRO Mohan Ninawe said, “This is an iconic development that the satellite city is yet to witness. The project booklet will be sold at Rs 25,000 and we expect good response. The is one of the biggest land deals that Cidco is looking at.” 
 
 This is the right time for developers and buyers to book properties since the rates are set to increase as the airport takes shape, Marathe said. The prices are still cheaper than the residential properties close to   in Santacruz and will appreciate further, he added. 
 
