VADODARA: As a child, she used to plough fields with her parents who worked as farm labourers in a remote village of Rajasthan. And when she was in her teens, her neighbours and relatives taunted her parents for not marrying her off. But a decade later, when IPS Saroj Kumari returned to Budania village in   district, the same villagers gave her a grand welcome.

 “It was the most satisfying moment for me as my hard work and struggle had paid off,” Kumari told TOI. But it wasn’t just about the adulation. “When people in my district heard about my achievement, a gradual change came in their attitude towards the girl child. Now, many parents in my village are sending their daughters to school and allowing them to work. I am so glad that I could inspire so many girls,” 35-year-old Kumari said. 
 
 But it wasn’t an easy journey for Kumari as her father retired from the army when she just three-years-old. They worked in fields and at construction sites to make ends meet. “I and my three brothers used to help them. It was a tough time. Also, most girls of my age were married by the time they reached class X. There was tremendous pressure but my parents always stood by me. My mother always believed that I will become an officer someday,” Kumari recalled. She shifted to Jaipur for graduation in 2001 and then completed her post-graduation and MPhil in sociology from a government college in Churu before appearing for UPSC in 2010. 
 
 When asked whether she always wanted to become an IPS officer, Kumari said, “I had read a lot about   and always wanted to become like her. After I appeared for UPSC, my first preference was IPS. I still admire Bedi.” During her posting as SP in Botad, Kumari initiated a major project to rehabilitate sex workers and she received lot of appreciation for it. “In 2014, I commanded the Republic Day parade too,” said Kumar. An avid participant in marathons, Kumari has also been part of the team that went for expedition on Mt Everest. 
 
 Kumari’s family set a trend of sorts in their village by not organizing ‘mrutyubhoj’ (food for community members after family member’s death) and also did marriage of her brothers at an expense of just Re 1. “I now take care of my parents who stay with me. My message for all the women is to never be scared of difficulties and chase their dreams,” she said. 
 
 
