BENGALURU: He may be autistic, but that hasn’t hindered him from drawing portraits that showcase a range of emotions — glee, anger, sorrow, fun... Adarsh Shetty, 22, manages to give every emotion a new hue in his artworks.

  is a developmental disability and those affected suffer from a range of challenges, including lack of social skills, repetitive behaviour and impediments in speech and non-verbal communication. But many like Adarsh have unique talents that only need encouragement.
 
 Adarsh has managed to channelize his capabilities in the past three and a half years, thanks to the training he received from ‘Sense Kalaeidoscopes, a unit of Ayathi trust’, an art school focused on teaching persons with autism. He credits his mentor Akshayee Shetty, founder of the art school, and his mother Jyothi Shetty for his evolution as an  .
 
 Adarsh’s family noticed his difficulty in communication when he was four years old. He wasn’t making eye contact and found it tough to communicate verbally. That’s when he was diagnosed with autism. “During the late 1990s, there wasn’t much awareness about autism and I heard it for the first time when my child was diagnosed with it. We made trips to several specialists and special educators. They said nothing could be done and he had to be home-bound,” said Jyothi.
 
 She said several sessions with special educators over the years only complicated things, especially during initial years. A special educator even told her that Adarsh could never write. “But I was keen on making him hold a pencil and attempt to write. Three years ago, we found a teacher who works only with autistic persons and teaches them art. That changed his routine, our everyday lives, and soon we were able to recognise his talent,” said Jyothi.
 
 Akshayee says Adarsh’s drawings are true reflections of his mood. “They are not imaginary. He sees something and draws it. In the past three years, there has been radical improvement not just in his artwork but also his personality. His aggression and seizure episodes have reduced, and he’s learnt how to follow instructions,” she says. The selection of colour and usage of alphabets in his artwork is also interesting,” she added.
 
 Ruby Singh, founder trustee, Assisted Living For Autistic Adults (ALFAA), says Adarsh’s achievements mirror his mother’s efforts. Pointing out that hard work by parents can make a difference to kids, she said: “At the same time, parents have to be practical and can’t have unrealistic expectations.”
 
 Well-versed with language and numbers
 
 Akshayee calls Adarsh a self-taught language learner. “He has learnt to read Kannada, Telugu, Tamil, and Malayalam without anyone teaching him. That’s a unique capability,” she said. 
 
 According to Jyothi, Adarsh recognized certain English words in books and made efforts to read them when he was only 2-3 years old. “He tries to co-relate between the pronunciation and the way a word is written. He was not able to communicate with us but would read certain words on his own without anyone teaching him. Ditto with numbers and dates. I have no clue how he picked up such skills; he may have memorized calendars,” she added.
 
 Jyothi was honoured by the state government on World Disability Day 2017 for being a role model mother of a special child. “Many parents of special children give up. They even feel shy to take them out. Such kids are confined to their homes, which is bad,” she said.
 
 
