NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of  , on Wednesday, directed Maharashtra government to submit by Thursday entire record pertaining to four irrigation projects in which large scale irregularities have been alleged. The projects included those where tenders were awarded to Bajoriya  .

 A division bench comprising Justice Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Justice Swapna Joshi orally flayed the government pleader after he expressed helplessness in furnishing the records and sought extension. The projects include Jigaon in Buldhana, Lower Pedhi in Amravati, Raigad Barrage near Chandur Railway and Waghadi in Yavatmal.
 
 The HC directive came while hearing Atul Jagtap’s PIL, through counsel Shridhar Purohit, alleging that in all the four projects the contracts were awarded to Bajoriya Construction Company, headed by former MLC from Yavatmal Sandeep Bajoriya, at the behest of former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who headed the irrigation department during the Congress-NCP regime.
 
 Earlier, Purohit pointed out that though Pawar was added as one of the respondents, the investigating agencies never bothered to interrogate him. It was for this reason the petitioner has demanded a CBI probe, he said.
 
 Last month, Bajoriya Construction Company had filed an affidavit along with vigilance committee’s enquiry report that had given it a clean chit. The petitioner then filed a counter-affidavit contending that the respondent’s submissions and enquiry report were incorrect and misleading.
 
 The petitioner said even a casual reading of the report would indicate that it was prepared with the sole objective of shielding the wrongdoers and granting protection to the respondents. Even the justification for suddenly increasing cost of the tender couldn’t stand the scrutiny of law as it is false and concocted. “When the tender is for 2008-2009, the costs should have been worked out properly in advance and reflected on paper. Now, the respondents can’t lie that higher rate was sanctioned because the old tender didn’t reflect the correct cost.”
 
 He explained that the respondents counting work experience between October 15 and June 30 in a calendar year was incorrect as it wasn’t the requirement of the tender, which contemplated the experience of last five financial years. If the period prescribed by the respondents is taken into account, it goes beyond the tender conditions, as the work experience contemplated is for financial years from 2003-2004 to 2007-2008.
 
 Terming the vigilance panel’s report as “bogus” and “concocted”, Jagtap said it took into consideration respondents’ claim that their work experience was for 2007-08, but the same work was done in 2009-09.
 
 After obtaining copies of the measurement book under RTI Act, the petitioner has prepared a record of year-wise work done which clearly shows that respondents made false statements and tried to mislead the high court.
 
 Earlier, Purohit argued that HR Hatgaonkar, who submitted vigilance panel’s report, along with two other officers are Bajoriya’s close friends. Hatgaonkar, posted at Yavatmal as executive engineer in Bembla dam division of irrigation department, had manipulated the report with an aim to save the former MLC and other officers, he alleged.
 
 During the last hearing, the state’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) informed that it had lodged a police complaint against senior officials of Bajoriya Construction Company, Maharashtra Jivan Pradhikaran (MJP), water resources department (WRD) and Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) in connection with Jigaon project.
 
 
