Day 4 of FDCI-presented   saw designers like Namrata Joshipura, Aneeth Arora and Siddhartha Tytler, showcase their Autumn Winter collections. With many known faces in attendance, we also spotted actor   at Aneeth Arora’s show. 

 
 
 Aekatri by Charu Vij showcased its collection Sanjha Phool, which was an ode to the women who bloom despite adversities. This collection comprised easy dresses in autumnal tones like charcoal, rosewood and mustard in addition to dexterously-tailored oversized jackets. The collection also featured thread-based embroideries on luxe fabrics like chanderi, cotton silk slub, wool and woven chanderi.
  
  
 
 
 
 The collection was an embodiment of indigenously fabric crafted by merging “Eri Silk yarn and Mulberry Silk yarn ”. The hand-woven patterns were distinct reminiscence of the French Art Deco. The looks comprised comfortably fitted silhouettes such as trench coats, capes, jackets and dresses with a hint of layering and overlapping. There was a distinct appeal to the collection with a bold usage of eclipse blue and vivid hues of violet grey and white.
  
  
 
 
 
 The collection celebrated the coexistence of the organic with the industrial.The collecetion showcased the use of fine needlepoint embroideries on handloom linens contrasting the rugged, hand distressed scrap denim and scrap denim patch work; while languid drapes complemented structured tailoring.It also had scrap denim patchwork cape, and denim skirt with paper bag belt.
  
  
 
 
 
 There was an unrestrained use of strong colour with typography in the collection to break the rigidity and allow for a universal interpretation of a private language. It was provocative and used humour as a form of escapism. The collection retained their signature of panelling and colour blocking but explored more mix media techniques for a powerful expression.
  
  
 
 
 
 The collection visualised fusion of Indian Folk Work, silhouettes with traditional motifs, cut works and crafts of the middle east. The synergy of these combination blended with contemporary aesthetics had resulted in a collection which is resplendent, timeless and distinctive. Flowly silhouettes intricately designed prints are majorly documented in this collection. It was an extension of their spring summer 18, inspired by the clown naser-el-din.
  
  
 
 
 
 Designer Shruti Sancheti, who showcased her collection on Day 3, showcased her collection Aanastasia on Day 4 as well. This time, her collection was a mix of contemporary and ethnic wears - checkered dresses, cape jackets, velvet boots were a few things that stood out in the collection.
  
  
 
 
 
 Sahil Kochhar’s collection featured semi-sheer shirts and asymmetric cape jackets, trousers and semi-sheer kurtas. The designer paired floral motifs with geometrical patterns.
 
  
  
 
 
 The collection has a wide range of styles and silhouettes from a quirky saris with frills and tassels to elaborate gowns and skirts. Intricately embroidered draped saris and dhoti pants in shades of ivory and pastels were a few highlights of the show. Variations of capes and silhouettes were added a dose of drama.
  
  
 
 
 
 Drawing inspiration from the 80s era and Japanese rockstar warriors, Siddhartha Tytler’s collection, F.U.S.S was an amalgamation of prêt and couture, street style and high street, comfort and luxury. It was a playful mix of womenswear and menswear pieces. Engineered fabrics like jerseys, velvets, parachute, cottons, neoprene and mesh were used to give a fun younger vibe to the collection.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 With trench coats, classic well-fit jackets in cheques and narrow pants, designer Dhruv Vaish’s autumn winter line for men was perfect as formal wear. The designer said that he worked with handwoven wool and a lot of technique went into creating fabrics with textured surface. Lot of layering was a part of the look that was presented on the  .
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Designer Abhishek Paatni imagined a future world and created garments keeping in mind the extreme of climatic condition we would likely be facing in the future. The show began with an all-white look with oversized jackets, gloves, caps and track pants. The use of colour was minimal in the line and the use of many pockets in jackets and hoodies in the show didn’t go unnoticed. The designer said that it is tough to design a garment for the future without adding the functionality and comfort factors in the outfits.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 With a good mix of casual and formal wear, designer Sahil Aneja’s show had quite a variety for men. While most designers tend to stick to shades like brown, black and grey for men in their autumn-winter collections, Sahil did add a hint of brightness to his collection. Red was the prominent colour used in the collection. Cheques, in both shirts and jackets, were also an important part of the collection. 
 
  
  
 
 
 With everything painted pink, Aneeth Arora’s show was a fresh take on winter palette. The designer moved from monochromes to shades like pink, coral and indigo. Hand embroidery, appliqué, laces, ribbon embroidery were used in the collection. The designer gave a strong message on upcycling through her line. The designs seemed to be inspired by the 70s era with maxi dresses, flared frock dresses. Oversized jackets and huge handbags in the shades of pink were used to create a chic look on the ramp. Live music and a candy stall in the show area was something exciting for guests who attended Aneeth’s show. Models had fun too, as they shook a leg on the ramp while taking a final walk.
  
  
 
 
 Namrata Joshipura presented a collection that used a lot of velvet, sequins, frills and surface texturing. Namrata has created collections inspired by the New York high street fashion in the past and this time too her show had a reflection of that, but the designer said that her idea was to create a line with an emphasis on technology. Sharp and structured cuts and silhouettes in jumpsuits, gowns and dresses with dropping necklines were impressive. It wasn’t just sequins that were added to designs to add some shimmer, crystal lining was used in dresses with an innovative use of technology. The colour tones ranged from black to bold colours like pink and marine blue.
  
  
 
 
 ---With inputs from Divya Kaushik
  
  
 
