An increasing number of television actors are ditching cars and cycling to work. It has multiple advantages — saves time, spares them the trauma of getting stuck in Mumbai’s notorious traffic jams and is an excellent fitness mantra!

 There is no substitute for fitness in the glamour world. For an artiste, if there’s anything as important — or even more, at times — as his/her acting chops, it is a body to die for. However, the irony is that the hectic schedules of showbiz, the television industry in particular, don’t leave the stars with much time to hit the gym. Well, every problem has a solution and some popular small-screen actors have found a simple yet highly effective way to combat the issue — they cycle to work! These pedal-driven two-wheelers have multiple advantages, apart from their health benefits: they cause no vehicular pollution and are easy to manoeuvre through the worst of traffic snarls. BT caught up with a few TV stars on their cycle rides to the sets and here’s what they had to say...
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 'Haasil' actress   (Miss India 2012 finalist), who shot to fame as an anchor on Zoom, is a fitness freak. In fact, she is known to be the most disciplined artiste on the set of her show. Nikita stays in Bandra and often cycles to her set in Madh Island, which is about 35 kms from her home. She says, “I prefer cycling to the set and start at 6 am; it takes me around an hour and 20 minutes. It’s the best way to save time and get my cardio in place.” That’s not all; Nikita welcomed 2018 by cycling with a friend from 10 pm to midnight from Bandra to south Mumbai. After returning home, she hosted an intimate house party for close friends.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 The actor, who is currently the male lead of ' ', takes out his bicycle whenever his shoot schedule allows him. Nitin says, “I stay in Andheri and cycle to work whenever we are shooting outdoors at Goregaon or Madh Island. The distance from my house to Goregaon is approximately 10 km and it takes me about an hour to reach there.” He adds, “Cycling not only helps you burn calories, but it’s fun, cheap and also environment-friendly. Moreover, it helps you combine regular exercise with your daily routine and makes you avoid traffic woes. Cycling, I believe, is a sport that gives an enormous sense of freedom to anyone who takes it up. Leaving the stress of daily life and pedalling away in the local lanes has become a hobby for me. There’s nothing that can beat the simplicity of a bike ride.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Karan cycles daily from Kandivali to the set of his show, 'Meri Hanikarak Biwi', in Goregaon. He says, “The distance from my house to the set is approximately seven kms and it takes me about 35 minutes to reach.” The actor loves cycling mainly because of two reasons. “It allows me to manoeuvre heavy traffic, as the roads are always blocked due to the ongoing Metro construction along my route. That apart, it also allows me to have a healthy lifestyle,” he says. About its other benefits, he goes on, “Besides keeping you physically fit, 30 minutes of cycling can improve your reaction time, memory and creative thinking.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 The actor, who stays in Juhu, has been cycling to the set of 'Kunwara Hai Par Humara Hai' in Madh Island since the first week of shoot. Ravish says, “I ride about six kms till Versova, and then take a boat from there to Madh. Once I reach Madh, I again cycle two kms to the set. It’s a great way to stay fit and saves time; there are no traffic hurdles and it doesn’t cause pollution either. Television actors don’t get adequate time to hit the gym due to long working hours. Being a fitness freak, I wouldn’t miss my workouts for anything. Since cycling has always been a passion, what’s better than just hopping on to my bike and enjoying the ride?” he asks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 The actress, by her own admission, feels rejuvenated whenever she cycles half the distance to the set of her show, 'Kasam Tere Pyaar Ki'. Midway, she hops into her car to reach the set at Saki Naka. Pranitaa says, “I have always loved cycling. And now, I cycle half way to the studios on days when I have an early call time. I enjoy the whole experience — the breeze that kisses my face,the music in the air... The day I cycle to work, I feel extremely rejuvenated and one with nature. In a city like Mumbai, a car is my necessity and a cycle, my luxury. In 2018, I want to cycle all the way to the set.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 The singer-actor-host took to cycling three years ago, when he started anchoring the music reality show, 'Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Li’l Champs'. Aditya says, “I can’t start my day without gymming — lifting weights and cardio — as it sets the right mood. But my shoot timings were such that it didn’t leave me with any time to hit the gym in the morning and that’s how I started cycling to the set.”
 It takes Aditya 45 minutes to reach the set of 'Entertainment Ki Raat' — the show he is currently a part of — in Powai from his Andheri home, the same amount of time that travelling by car takes. “The best part about cycling is that it feels like I am working out in the open; I can also listen to my playlist while at it. I take a shower after reaching the set and that’s the best way to start my work,” he tells us. Interestingly, over the years, Aditya has developed his own cycling rituals. “I stop by my parents’ house every morning and meet them before I leave for work. I also tend to put things in place, like misplaced barricades on the road, as I have an OCD problem.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Though Sunaina, currently seen on 'Kunwara Hai Par Hamara Hai', doesn’t cycle to the set, she pedals to stay fit. She tells us, “A few days ago, someone visited the set of our show on a bicycle. Initially, I wondered, ‘How can someone ride a cycle in a congested city like Mumbai?’ However, I realised later that cycling not only keeps you fit, but also saves a lot of time as you don’t get stuck in traffic jams. I started cycling because it improves cardiovascular health, lowers blood pressure, boosts energy levels, builds muscle and improves coordination. I might soon buy a cycle and ride it to work.”
 
 
 
 
