PUNE: The southwest monsoon’s entry into Maharashtra this year is likely to be an eventful one.

 
 
  
 
 On Saturday, the India Meteorological Department ( ) issued “yellow” and “orange” alerts for “heavy” and “heavy to very heavy rains” respectively in Madhya Maharashtra on June 5 and in Madhya Maharashtra and the Konkan region on June 6. The yellow alert is to tell citizens to “be watchful and updated” during the event, while the orange alert is a more serious caution asking people to “be prepared”.
 
 Meanwhile, thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds and lightning may continue at isolated places in Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and   regions on June 3. Heavy rains at isolated places in Madhya Maharashtra have been forecast on June 5 while on June 6, the region is likely to get “heavy to very heavy” rains. Heavy rainfall is likely in Marathwada and Konkan-Goa regions as well on June 6.
 
 An IMD official said the tentative time for the monsoon to reach parts of Maharashtra is between June 6 and June 8. As a result, rainfall activity is expected to surge across the region.
 
 AK Srivastava, the head of the climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, said rain accompanied with a thunderstorm is usually heavy. “A system over the   is simultaneously expected to move westwards around June 6-June 7, causing rains in parts of south Maharashtra and Marathwada. This may also mark the monsoon’s onset in south Maharashtra,” he said.
 
 Sources at the   too said moderate to heavy spells of rains are expected over south Madhya Maharashtra, Pune and the south Konkan coast around June 7.
 
 Meanwhile, the city received 5mm of rain on Saturday evening, while Lohegaon recorded 1mm. These showers were a part of the convective activity over the city in the last few days as well as moisture incursion. However, many other cities in the state, including Mumbai, received nil to little rain on Saturday.
 
 Between Friday 8.30 am and Saturday 8.30 am, several locations in Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha received considerable rainfall — in double-digit at many locations. Shevgaon in Madhya Maharashtra received 50mm rain, while six other locations here recorded 40mm rain each including Karad and Miraj. Junnar and Mahabaleshwar got more than 10mm rain each.
 
 
