Chennai: While the internet user market remains a male preserve in India with women constituting only 30%, it is women in rural India who are making strides.

 From 12% in 2015, rural women moved to 25% in 2016 and to 36% in 2017. On the other hand, gender ratio in urban India barely saw any change with the ratio hovering around 40: 60 across the last 3 years, a report by Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) and Kantar IMRB said. Amitayu Sengupta, assistant VP, IAMAI says, “Affordability is the biggest factor. Handsets have become cheaper. Bite sized data packs are available.”
 
 With entertainment being a top reason for internet access, particularly in rural India, bundling of data packs has been a crucial selling point. 
 
 “Bundling of data packs with subscriptions has worked very well with the rural women audience as they access daily soaps on the internet,” saif Sengupta.
 
 Industry observers say substantial investment has gone towards digital and financial literacy programs in the rural area. “Most banks have realised that the urban market is saturated. Considerable CSR investments have gone towards such programs,” said Rajashri Sai, founder, Impactree Consulting, a firm that consults in the social sector. Several focussed programs have aided in women taking to the internet in large numbers. Among the most popular ones is Google and Tata Trust’s Internet Saathi. After an inital training on using the internet, women selected as saathis go on to train another 1,000 women. 
 
 “Institutions like Jagriti Yatra are also a part of the Internet Saathi program. I have seen young women accessing the internet to learn about aspects like women rights. Many use the internet to support small businesses they run,” added Sai.
 
 With social messaging platforms like WhatsApp becoming ubiquitous, industry observers say women have been quick to adopt these apps. “Self help groups and NGOS, mainly women driven, form WhatsApp groups. Hike Messenger allows users to send messages in local languages,” he said. 
 
 
