NAGPUR: In a span of seven days, director of Central India Institute of Mass Communication ( ) Sunil   received another major blow when Nagpur University’s (NU) management council on Tuesday unanimously accepted the recommendations of the three-member inquiry panel led by retired industrial judge BC Chandripure.

 Based on the panel’s report, the council will initiate four types of action against Mishra for allegedly duping CIIMC students and ruining their careers by withholding their academic documents.
 
 NU would be freezing admissions at CIIMC with immediate effect, issue show-cause notice to local enquiry committee (LEC), take action against them for helping Mishra, file police complaint against him for not depositing fee with the university and withholding permanent affiliation for the next academic year.
 
 The development should come as a major relief for the aggrieved CIIMC students as NU has now taken upon itself to shift them to another institute/college as well as recover their leaving certificates and marklists from Mishra’s possession.
 
 Also, the local enquiry committee (LCE) led by Wardha’s Sanjay Kanode and having Madhuri Nasare and Sayali Pande are now under scanner for recommending continuation of affiliation to CIIMC despite the institute being devoid of full-time teachers, proper classrooms and infrastructure.
 
 The beleaguered CIIMC director is already facing police action over allegedly misleading the court and   (BoE) in 2006 when he returned bogus marklists of his LLB Part I, II and Final.
 
 On May 15, the Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BoEE) had empowered the administration led by vice-chancellor SP Kane to take a final call. Based on former district government pleader (DGP) Prashant Sathianathan’s report, Kane has decided to file in FIR in this case too. The advocate has termed Mishra as a “habitual offender” who “also defrauded the judiciary”.
 
 Kane said the council has decided to immediately freeze all the admissions. “No admissions would be allowed in the coming session at CIIMC. The university has taken the responsibility to shift the affected students to other affiliated colleges/institutes,” he said.
 
 The VC also expressed concern over the LEC which gave shocking recommendations. “The LEC report said the entire Aashirwad Theatre building belonged to Mishra’s CIIMC. In every bracket assessing the requirements for an institute, positive remarks ‘Yes’ was mentioned by the members,” he said.
 
 The Chandrikapure panel was set up on January 6, this year following students’ complaints. On December 9, 2017, TOI reported how the aggrieved CIIMC students approached the VC with a demand to lodge police complaint against Mishra, accusing him for not handing over transfer certificates (TCs) and depositing their exam fees with NU that led to their results and degrees being withheld.
 
 Not only they failed to seek admission in postgraduate courses, but also lost jobs in absence of valid degree certificates. The inquiry committee had to also brace with a ‘violent’ Mishra when its members were attacked during its investigation over students complaints in March. A cop was allegedly roughed up by Mishra but no police action has been taken yet.
 
 
