Fairytales and folktales are part of everyone’s childhood. Often stories with happy endings are told by our grandparents or we read them in books, filled with pictures of quaint castles and talking animals. Intrinsic to the memories of the early years of our life, these stories do make an impact on the way we look at our future. Cut to contemporary times, stories are still told and heard, but mostly in the form tweets and memes or selfies. Reimagining the art of storytelling, city-based   company   has come up with a curious piece of drama, called  . Comprising five plays, this theatrical is a set of urban folktales that shed light on the importance of holding on to our everyday stories that are easily forgotten in our fast-paced lives.

  Based on a cross-section of genres, this five-part play is written and directed by  , while the cast includes Nithya J Rao, Deepthi Bhaskar, Kalyani Kumar, Jimmy Xavier, Badarivishal Kinhal, Piyush Agarwal and Venkataraghavan Srinivasan. The actors enact multiple roles in the play that runs for 80 minutes. After a soft launch last month, this new play is set to be staged at Jagriti Theatre, from January 26-28. 
 
  Each story in Remember Remember is placed in geographies, and given identities and relevance. “Our cityscape is filled with fairytales. Not all of them may end on a happy note, but they are real stories and mostly unheard of. We are so preoccupied with byte-sized writings on social media that our city spaces suddenly seem to be devoid of stories. We either don’t have the time for narratives, or notice them only when someone converts them into memes for us. Or maybe, we don’t believe that cities can hide fairytales in plain sight,” says Prashanth, adding, “This play is an attempt to revisit those urban stories that, in many different ways, build the character of a place.”
 
  Music plays an important role in the show. “We didn’t want a background score, a recorded track or a live band performing alongside. We wanted to create music and sound on the stage that would be part of the storyline and characters. The vocals and musical instruments used in the performance add value to the plot and make an impression on the audience, just as much as the stories do,” adds Prashanth, whose writing is engaging and deceptive at the same time. An eclectic mix of instruments have been used in the play — namely djembe, flute, ektara, ukulele and the guitar.
 
  
 
 
 
