BENGALURU: Thursday, the day most parts of   responded to a bandh call favourably and shut shop, witnessed a spike in road accidents in Bengaluru and elsewhere in the state, revealed data from 108   GVK EMRI, the state-run ambulance service.

 Officials from the ambulance service said they attended to 340 road-accident trauma calls on Thursday, up by 20.56% from 282 such cases reported on an average every day across the state. Cases attended by ambulances in Bengaluru city stood at 75, up by 12% from the daily average of 67. The calls were received between 12am (midnight) and 6pm on Thursday. 
 
 Officials said the spurt in the number of accidents appeared unusual, given that roads in many parts of the state, especially Bengaluru, were deserted due to the strike. 
 
 “This trend has been noticed during earlier bandhs too. One of the contributing factors could be the lack of mass transport, which forces people to use private vehicles. In the absence of heavy traffic, people tend to speed and that could be one reason for more accidents being reported,” said the authorities.
 
 While the ambulances attended to persons with several kinds of injuries, no on-the-spot deaths were reported, said the staff, who collated the data at the call centre of the ambulance service. In all these cases, the accident victims were taken to nearby hospitals.
 
 According to Dr  , renowned neurosurgeon and founder of  , reckless driving on bandh days could be the key reason. “People are used to certain transport modalities and during bandh all that goes haywire. Not everyone is good at driving, but many take their vehicles out on such days,” said Dr Venkataramana.
 
 He also said that helmets are worn only on main roads in core areas where police are present. “Many flout rules when not being supervised. Bandh is not just a waste of money, but also costs lives,” he added.
 
 “Accidents can happen even when there are less vehicles on road. Negligent, careless driving, anxiety to reach home, not much police monitoring could be the reasons. This is the other side of the coin,” said M N Sreehari, a traffic expert. 
 
 
 
 
 However, Bengaluru traffic police did not agree with the claims made by ambulance officials. “We only noticed less vehicles on the road due to the bandh. Accidents reported at police stations do not support Arogya Kavacha data,” said R Hitendra, additional commissioner of police, traffic. 
 
 Doctors in government-run Trauma Care Centre located on   campus, which receives most of the accident cases in the city, said there was no increase in the number of cases on bandh day. “On an average, we get 7-10 road-traffic accident cases. On Friday, there was no increase,” the doctors said.
 
 
