MUMBAI: In good news for patients, Indian Patent Office has rejected a patent on Japanese major Otsuka’s anti-psychotic drug aripiprazole on grounds of ‘lack of inventive step’, thwarting yet again attempts by big pharma to seek exclusivity and prevent affordable generics from being sold in the country. Aripiprazole is approved to treat mental/mood disorders, such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and irritability associated with autism.
The rejection of Otsuka’s application prevents creation of a monopoly in favour of forms of aripiprazole covered under the patent and increase in prices, say legal experts.
 
 
 The   rejected Otsuka’s application filed in 2002 for a patent on the compound — aripiprazole hydrate — used to make the drug aripiprazole. The application was opposed at the pre-grant stage by Torrent Pharmaceuticals, since it was found to be “obvious” and lacking inventive step, violating Section 3(d) of the Indian Patent Act — a provision under which   lost the patent on its blockbuster cancer drug, Glivec in 2013. In fact, the opposition cited the Novartis judgment as part of its argument. The proceedings lasted several years with a final decision on February 20, 2018, citing the lack of inventive step and evergreening of the active compound aripiprazole for rejecting the patent. Evergreening is a strategy used by manufacturers to extend the patent life of their product with a minor tweak in the formulation.
 
 “The applicant does not provide any enhanced technical data in the form of therapeutic efficacy of the present crystalline forms of aripiprazole over the cited polymorphic/crystalline forms”, said the order, a copy of which was accessed by TOI.
 
 To pass the Section 3(d) test, the new form of a known substance must demonstrate substantially enhanced therapeutic efficacy in comparison to the known compound itself i.e. aripiprazole.
 
 The deputy controller of patents, Bhaskar Ghosh, said aripiprazole and its different polymorphic forms are already known and used in the pharmaceutical industry, the order said.
 
 Meanwhile, over the years, several domestic companies, including Torrent and  , received approval to market aripiprazole in another form (B polymorph) for treatment of mental/mood disorders. The drug is manufactured by over 20 companies in various strengths, with a pack of 100 tablets of aripiprazole 15mg priced at around Rs 800, industry experts said. Though, at present,the drug is manufactured by a host of Indian companies, a patent on the compound may have created issues in its manufacture, a legal expert pointed out.
 
  was represented by law firm S Majumdar & Co, while   Pharmaceutical by LS Davar.
 
 Coming to evergreening, the deputy controller found that better solubility, more bioavailability and improved shelf life, which are physical properties of the claimed crystal form, cannot be considered patentable under the law, in the absence of evidence of enhanced therapeutic efficacy.
 
 Earlier, Otsuka had tied up with   for marketing Abilify (aripiprazole) globally, priced up to $140 for 100 tablets, according to information on the internet. However, in 2015, US Food and Drug Administration approved generic versions to be marketed in US by Torrent, Hetero Labs, Alembic and Teva.
 
 
