KOLKATA: True to his name,   always had a big heart. On Tuesday, his family was in tears when they realised his new heart was as big. Before   could ask his elder brother how he felt after undergoing the   surgery, it was   who inquired how everyone was at home back in Deoghar.

 “Tum kaise ho? Ghar mein sab kaise hain? Un log ko phone karke bol do ki main badhiya hoon (How are you? How is everyone at home? Call them up and convey the message that all’s well with me,” were the first words that the 39-year-old uttered after he regained conscious-ness post operation. 
 
  
  
 
 “I was so happy and touched to hear my brother’s voice after such a major operation that I nearly cried in happiness. Seeing me get all emotional, he smile and asked me to cheer up because he was feeling great,” Umesh told TOI.
 
 
  
 The eldest of six siblings, the 39-year-old has been the pillar strength for the family. With ageing parents, Dilchand had taken charge of his brothers in addition to his own family.
 
 “He would take all the hardship on himself so that it didn’t affect his brothers’ studies or his parents’ well-being. In fact, he never told anyone that his heart was failing. All he would say was that he had a heart problem for which he was taking medicines. When I would ask why he wasn’t getting cured despite treatment, he would try to laugh it off. I somehow sensed the problem was bigger than what he revealed because I would find him brooding,” said brother-in-law Bhim Singh. 
 
 It was only on his way to Kolkata last Sunday that Umesh and Bhim learned that he needed a heart transplant to beat death. 
 
 When Dilchand received the call for the heart transplant at his home on Sunday morning, he told his family that he needed to rush to Kolkata for treatment and asked Singh to travel with him.
 
 “It was only when we were on way to Kolkata that he disclosed he was about to get a treatment that he had been waiting for two years. It was during that taxi journey to Kolkata that I learned that he needed a heart transplant to escape death,” said Umesh.
 
 Once doctors saw Dilchand open his eyes and look around him for a familiar face, doctors knew it was time to bring in his brother. Umesh, who was camping at the hospital, rushed to the ICU where Dilchand was recuperating.
 
 “In a foreign environment after a major surgery, it is comforting for a patient to meet and interact with a family member after regaining consciousness. That is why we brought in his brother as soon as he opened his eyes,” said Dr KM Mandana, cardio-thoracic surgeon who was part of the transplant team.
 
 While Umesh was on the way, the attending doctor asked the patient how he was. Dilchand answered he was feeling fine and thanked the doctor with folded hands. 
 
 Umesh said he was nervous when he stepped into the ICU meet his brother. But once he saw him smile, all the anxiety that had built up since Dilchand was wheeled into the OT the previous morning vanished. “They’ve changed his heart but his heart hasn’t changed at all. He is still as concerned about everyone’s well-being,” gushed the younger brother.
 
 
