CHENNAI: Ever since the Cauvery issue came to the fore about two months ago, both the   and the   have been hogging the limelight in their own way to get the   establish the  . However, this week, it was the fringe political groups in the state that seemed to have hijacked the issue with their pugnacious protests in Chennai by linking IPL with Cauvery. 

 
 Over the last couple of days, fringe political outfits like T Velmurugan’s  , Seeman’s Naam Tamilar Katchi and even Thirumurugan Gandhi’s May 17 Movement have not only come to the forefront, but have also held the city and the administration to ransom through their disruptive protests, which at times had turned unruly.
 
 While the ruling AIADMK stalled the proceedings in the Parliament for weeks and observed hunger strike across the state on April 3, the DMK not only managed to rally like-minded opposition parties for a state-wide bandh on April 5, but also kept its fight alive by taking out a march led by M K   in the delta districts. 
 
 The AIADMK had to put brakes on its stir with the administration’s attention shifting to the conduct of IPL and the PM’s visit to the city. And the DMK’s attention shifted to the delta districts. Grabbing the opportunity to fill the perceived vacuum in Chennai, the fringe outfits took centre stage, breached security cover and ambushed the administration.
 
 “The inevitability of fringe groups hijacking mainstream political agenda cannot be written off. It has happened with Kudankulam and in the jallikattu struggle, where it went beyond the expectations of even the fringe groups,” said N Sathiya Moorthy, political analyst. However, converting the flash mob into votes is a different ball game, he said, adding that Stalin has been more methodical in drawing political mileage out of the issue.
 
 “Both IPL and PM’s visit happened in quick succession. Naturally, it attracted the attention of national media, keeping these fringe elements in the limelight. Not only the AIADMK and the DMK, even TTV Dhinakaran has not been in the limelight in recent days. They have managed to outsmart actors-turned-politicians Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan,” Moorthy said.
 
 
