DHARAMSHALA: The remains of four   who died in Iraq reached their families on Tuesday morning. All four were cremated by their families later in the day. 

 All the four youths had gone to Iraq through a travel agent based in  ,  . “My brother went to Iraq through a Kharar-based travel agent, who hails from Kangra district. He had promised my brother a monthly salary of Rs 45,000 but he was getting only Rs 20,000. My brother was a poclain operator but was working as a labourer in Iraq,” said Jeevan Jyoti, sister of Sandeep Rana. A resident of Fatehpur village in Nurpur subdivision, he leaves behind his aged parents, wife and two children.
 
 “The   is very poor. His only motive of going abroad was to find a good job,” she added. She said the government should provide a job to the deceased’s family as they had lost their only earning member.
 
 Hemraj, a native of Mandi district, is survived by his parents, two children and a wife. The family’s only source of income is sale of milk. “My daughter Ananya, now 5, was born after my husband left for Iraq. She will never know the love of her father,” his wife wailed as she clutched her daughter to herself. When asked about the visa availed by Hemraj, she replied, “Job was the priority then, and we trusted the agent.”
 
 Pardesi Ram, father of Inderjeet Singh from Dehra in Kangra district, told TOI that the agent took Rs 1 lakh for sending his son to Iraq. “It was only the Himachal connection we relied on, and we sent our son to foreign land,” he said.
 
 The bereaved families are now demanding an investigation into the whole nexus of youths being sent to Iraq and those facilitating their movement. “We don’t know much who received my brother in Iraq. His only priority was finding a decent job. But what I know is that he was not given the position he was promised here,” said Raman Kumar, younger brother of Aman Kumar. A resident of Passu village, about 10 km away from here, Aman was survived by his parents and a brother.
 
 
