CHENNAI: In a grim reminder of the quality of education prevailing, the   National Achievement Survey has found that percentage of learning outcomes of Class VIII students of government and government aided schools in Chennai district in science and social studies is the lowest in the state, with less than 30% score.

 The survey was to assess competency-based learning outcomes in Classes III, V and VIII in different subjects across the country. Assessment of Class VIII students in science, where the average performance level was 29.81%, showed the lowest Performing Learning Outcomes ( ) were in measuring angles of incidence, reflection, etc., conducting simple teststo answer queries, measuring, calculating temperature, pulse rate, speed of moving objects, time period of a simple pendulum, etc.
 
 
  
  
 
 Individual report cards for each district showed that just 1.39% of students who took the questions got more than 75% of answers right, while 55% got less than 30% correct.
 
 Prince  , secretary for  , said factors like equitable access to education, appointing grade-appropriate teachers rather than one teacher for five classes, and provision of the required facilities play a role in determining learning outcomes. 
 
 A government school teacher remarked that Chennai district schools were behind those in other districts even in performance in board exams, while others felt more distractions for students here could be a cause.
 
 Educationist   said socio-economic conditions were alos a factor. “Several government school teachers have said many students were from distraught family conditions which lead to poor focus on learning. From my observation, this is not as much an issue in rural districts,” he said.
 
 In social studies, Chennai district fared the lowest with 28.8% with a particularly poor show in terms of locating important historical sites/places on an India map, application of knowledge of fundamental rights to find out about their violation, protection and promotion in a given situation, explaining preventive actions in the event of disasters and locating distribution of important minerals on a world map. 
 
 Rural students scored higher than their urban peers across subjects in Classes III and V and were only marginally lower at Class VIII level. This, said Prince Gajendra Babu, was due to the character of rural children, most of them from working class families. “There is an interest and urge to come up in life and for many of these students, education is the only option to do that.”
 
 Language was the strong point in Chennai across all three classes, while percentage in math dipped from 58.86 in Class III to 31.19 in Class VIII. More than 61% of Class III students could read small texts with comprehension identify main ideas, details, sequence and draw conclusions as well as read printed scripts, poems, charts and posters.
 
 
