done...

 NASHIK: The Nashik unit of   has threatened to stop the supply of vegetables and milk for 10 days from June 1 across the district as part of a nationwide agitation.
 
 The Mahasangh, apex body of hundreds of farmers’ outfits across the country, has decided to launch this agitation to press various demands. 
 
 At a meeting on Monday, the Nashik unit of the   has decided that farmers would not bring vegetables and milk to the markets during the 10 days.
 
 “In case farmers decide to bring such commodities to the market, it would be very less, so that there is a scarcity. This is the way we are going to create pressure on the government to redress our long pending demands,” said Shankar Darekar, the Nashik unit chief of the outfit. 
 
 Last week, the  , the apex body of farmers’ outfits in the state, had decided that farmers would not be take part in the nationwide stir as that period is crucial for cultivation. Rather it has decided to stage peaceful demonstrations in front of the houses of MPs and MLAs to exert pressure so that the Centre convenes a special session of   to discuss the problems of farmers. 
 
 “We are not concerned whether the Samiti takes part in the agitation or not. We know that the farmers’ fraternity of the entire district is with us and our stir would be successful. The youth of that fraternity is whole-heartedly supporting our agitation,” Darekar claimed.
 
 He said farmers’ organisations in 25 states have agreed to take part in the agitation and outfits from the remaining states and Union Territories too would join before the agitation begins. 
 
 Darekar demanded that loan of farmers across the country must be waived off, they should be given profitable price for their produce, and the government must ensure a steady income for farmers. 
 
 He said that such is the deplorable plight of farmers that a vast section of them is unable to garner even Rs 200 a day by selling their produce. 
 
 “The minimum wages for a labourer as per the government rules is much higher. We want the government to guarantee minimum income for farmers,” demanded Darekar. 
 
 
