PATNA: Muslim clerics on Sunday called the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill as interference with Sharia, which was unacceptable to them. 

 Addressing the ‘Deen Bachao Desh Bachao’ conference organized by   under the banner of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) at Gandhi Maidan here, member of AIMPLB-Kolkata chapter   said, “The bill calls for changes in the laws of Islam that we cannot allow.”
 
 Thousands of Muslims from   and neighbouring states of West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand took part in the conference, which was open to all. The conference passed a resolution urging the central government not to intervene in the appointment of   judges. The conference was called to highlight the deteriorating social conditions in the country.
 
 The Kathua and Unnao rape cases also found a mention in their speeches and the clerics called for protection of women and harshest punishment to the guilty so that no one dare repeat such crime.
 
 Demands were also made for protection of masjids, mausoleums and madrassas, which they said have often been targeted in the name of alleged centres of terrorism. The clerics also called for the arrest of miscreants who were responsible for the recent communal tension and violence in Bihar.
 
 The speakers also supported the dalit cause and demanded strengthening of the existing SC/ST Act. The resolution passed in the conference also called for the formation of women committees at state, district and block level in order to create awareness about Islam. The issue of illegal occupation of Wakf land under the Wakf (Amendment) Act 2013 was also raised and the speakers requested the central government to conduct a survey of these land on a priority basis.
 
 “The resolution passed in the conference is an effort to try to promote brotherhood and peace among communities. It is our request that the country should be run according to the Constitution, which promotes constitutional rights,” Imarat Shariah’s general secretary Maulana Anisur Rahman Quasmi said.
 
 Dalit leader Waman Meshram and AIMPLB general secretary Maulana Wali Rahmani also attended the conference.
 
 Stalls offering water, cold drinks and fruits had been set up around Gandhi Maidan.
 
 
