LUDHIANA: It is a dream come true for the 52-year-old Awadesh  , who is posted as a commissioner at provident fund office, Ludhiana, as he has qualified for the   by completing a national level marathon event in just 3 hours 24 minutes, which was held in New Delhi on February 25. 
 
 After completing certain parameters set by the Association of International Marathons and Distance Races in the recently held marathon of more than 42km,   Kumar Singh has secured his berth for the international events by the name of Boston Marathon scheduled to take place in April this year. 
  
 Boston Marathon is the world’s oldest annual marathon, which commenced in 1897 just a year after the first Olympics games held at Athens in   in 1896. Moreover, it is considered one of the world’s top marathons. It is going to be held on third Monday of April. Awadesh said it was his last chance to qualify for the Boston Marathon as earlier he has made two attempts to qualify but had remained unsuccessful. 
  
 “In February 2017, I participated in the national level marathon (New Delhi) and took 3 hours 33minutes to complete the same. Following this, I took part in   at Ireland in August and completed a 42km distancein hours 30 minutes 21 seconds,” he said. “However, to qualify for Boston Marathon, one should have to complete the same distance in the less than three hours and 30 minutes.” 
  
 It was the same feeling like those who qualify for the Olympic games with their continuous hardwork and dedication, said Awadesh who was on cloud nine after his recent success. 
  
 “I do not have any sporting background. I started running only to stay fit and participated in marathons just to gain experience. But after joining and participating in the initial stage of the marathons, I developed great interest and then qualified for Boston Marathon,” Kumar added. “However, my coach   has an important role in my success as he boosted my spirit and helped in fixing my aim to win the Boston Marathon. He also taught me the basic techniques to achieve success in this direction,” said Kumar. 
  
  
