CHANDIGARH: Dinesh Sharma, divisional   Ambala division marked an inquiry into the death of two person who fell from a speeding train,  , near railway gate number 122 of Sector 19 in Panchkula. “A committee is probing the case and the report is yet to be submitted by his officer’s committee,” he said. As many as two persons succumbed to their injuries after falling from a speeding train on Sunday at 9.45 pm when four passengers including Varinder, 32, Mukesh Kumar, 23, Ravi Kumar, 30, all residents of Daria and Sunil, a resident of Sohana village, Mohali were sitting near the steps of one of the doors of the coach.

 Raj Kumar, SHO of RPF, said, “A joint team of RPF and GRP on Monday visited the site to conduct investigations. A DDR is registered under section 174 of IPC.”
 
 
 He said that the information about the accident was given by the gateman that four of the passengers fall down near gate number 122 sector 19, Panchkula.
 
 Ravi Kumar, one of the four commuters in his statement to the Railway Police Force (RPF) on Monday, said that when the train started moving, they were pushed by the crowd and lost balance due to which they fell out of the train. People soon gathered at the spot, and rushed the four to Government Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, where one of them, identified as  , a resident of Sector 11, was declared brought dead while Mukesh Kumar succumbed to his injuries on Monday in PGIMER.
 
 “The overhead electrical poles which are set on the concrete poles are far from the track. The trains are plying on the tracks since past four days no such incident has happened. But, after the incident officers were asked to prepare a detailed report,” said Sharma.
 
 “The preliminary report will be submitted on Tuesday after which they will be able to identify the reasons. The railway is monitoring in routine about the distance of the pole installed as prescribed distance which is 2.135 meter. The bag of passengers was stuck in the pole due to which they fell down but the team has yet to give final verdict,” said the  
 
