PANAJI: While sharing their stories on fighting  , survivors on Monday appealed to the public to take time off from their hectic schedules to care for their health.

 Health is given least importance in our lives, but this should not be the case,  , a cancer survivor said. “We think about our career and our family and feel that when all other goals are met then we will think about our health. I want to tell you that if your health is good then you can achieve all your goals. We tend to think yoga is something to be done in one’s old age, but cancer is a lifestyle disease and if you maintain a healthy lifestyle you can lower your chances of getting cancer and other lifestyle diseases. If you do get cancer, your chances of survival will be more,” she said during a program organised at  , Dona Paula, on the occasion of World Cancer Day. 
 
 Besides family and community that supported her through difficult times, it is being an athlete in her younger days that helped breast cancer survivor Prashanti Talpankar fight the disease. “Don’t say you don’t have time. Take up at least one sport. Your body will come to your rescue,” she said.
 
 Suzette Ferreira, a cancer survivor for ten years, stressed on the importance of early intervention. “Observe changes in your body and approach the doctor immediately. Timely intervention will help you survive,” she said.
 
 The survivors, a cheerful and positive bunch, have also been able to combat the big C because of emotional support they received from each other. Muskaan a support group has not only been dispelling myths about cancer, but also helping those detected with it understand surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and immune therapy needed for the next five years. 
 
 “We don’t give medical advice, but tell patients everything they need to know. Once they’re clear about each step of the treatment, they’re better able to cope with it,” said Muskaan founder member Dr Sharmila Sardesai Correia. 
 
 With the disease becoming much more common today, people are more open about it and aren’t afraid to ask questions, Correia said. “Around a decade ago people would hide the disease from their brothers and sisters. Some couldn’t come to terms with it themselves. This has changed today,” she said. 
 
 Response to awareness sessions has been better in rural Goa, Correia said, adding that she finds that the rural population values the information more and seek additional information compared to their urban counterparts. 
 
 Muskaan also has its own lymphoedema clinic and helps patients in cosmetic rehabilitation by sourcing mastectomy brassieres and external breast prosthesis for purchase.
 
 
