THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Even though chief minister   sees the life of a hapless citizen in every government file, the 94,000-plus files still pending in various departments in the secretariat shows that the system is bogged down by red-tapism.

 Adoption of automation through systems like e-office has transformed physical files into electronic ones but there is hardly any change in mindset of officials. “The system is so skewed and disorganised that there is no accountability and therefore no one, including the secretaries, dare take a final decision. Everyone passes the buck and forwards the file to the next level. In the case of secretaries, many of them also note at the end of the file that the chief secretary or the minister may also see the file,” said former chief secretary Jiji  .
 
  
  
 
 Secretariat follows the age-old Tottenham system of file-processing, but the procedures mandated by it for the smooth movement of files are not followed. “The Tottenham system mandates that the file movement register be inspected every week by joint secretaries, monthly by additional secretaries and once in three months by the secretaries. This is never done,” Thomson said.
 
 TOI spoke to employees in four departments and the major reason attributed by them for the slow movement of the files was same: frequent intra-department transfer of staff, done by upholding the interests of employee organisations having allegiance to the ruling coalition. “Employees affiliated to organizations aligning with the party in power prefer departments where the work load is less. Employees from other organizations are forcibly transferred to designations with heavy workload like the revenue or local self-government department,” said a deputy secretary who did not want to be identified. It would take at least two years for an revenue department employee to get well-versed in revenue land laws but 90% of the staff were transferred and replaced with fresh heads when the LDF came to power.
 
 Another official said unnecessary consultations with other departments are another major cause of delay. “Most files are forwarded to law and   departments even though a decision can be taken in the concerned administrative department. This results in a delay of at least a month,” sources said.
 
 Finance department sources said the eoffice system had a significant impact in reducing the time of file movements. “Because different sections, even under the same department, are positioned at different locations, the physical movement of files was time-consuming. With the e-office system, the average time to dispose a file, if processed properly, has come down from 30-40 days to six to seven days,” said a top finance department official.
 
 The data compiled under the RTI Act shows that the revenue department that has the maximum file pendency. But considering the volume of files generated by the revenue department, the number is insignificant, said  , additional chief secretary (revenue). “The revenue department has sections ranging from A to P. In addition, two other sections that deal with chief minister’s distress relief funds generates thousands of files. Moreover, 20% to 30% matter that go to the cabinet are revenuerelated. The pendency should be taken only as a percentage of the total number of files being dealt by the department per se,”   said.  , principal secretary (general administration), refutes allegations of high-pendency. “In the e-office system, when the files move from section assistant to the secretary, it goes up by six levels, and the system shows the same file pending for six times instead of one. So, the number of pending files itself is not true,” he said. There are some files that can never be closed. “For example, if there is a file for reservation of a government facility like VJT Hall, the file is always open and can never be closed. Also, there are several files related to matters that are sub-judice which can be disposed only on the basis of court orders,” he said.
 
 In the first meeting of the secretaries, chief secretary   had instructed them to hold department-wise file adalats and report the updates regarding file disposal. Despite the efforts, a change will happen only if the officials have a clear-cut idea about their role and they ensure movement of files in designated levels. “In the union government, the files will move only to the level of joint secretaries. The role of the secretaries is limited to assisting ministers in framing policies” Jiji Thomson said.
 
