Indore: The cultural community of Indore gathered on Thursday to register their protest against acquisition of land adjoining   and   auditorium, which is currently occupied by district public relations office, a school and parking facility.

 Around fifty such people jointly raised their voice and staged protest against state government and high court, accusing them of arbitrarily acquiring the land. All the members signed a letter which will be sent to the chief minister. 
 
 The   Library, built in the colonial era, was renovated in 2009. In the same year, the Pritamlal Dua art gallery, auditorium and a general hall were made with public donation. The library and auditorium currently has a parking space of 5000 square feet, adjacent to district public relations office. 
 
 According to cultural group members, present requirement of the building is for 20,000 square feet. “If the current parking is seized, we will be forced to park on MG road which will cause chaos and traffic jam in the area,” Tapan Bhattacharya, a social activist said. Attendees gave suggestions on how the protest against this could be carried forward.
 
 “We can begin with a signature campaign, followed by complaints on chief minister helpline and then we can connect with other like-minded people and gather their support,” said Anil Bhandari, president of   which played an active role in the construction of the auditorium. Another suggestion for holding fortnightly meetings of cultural and art related people from the city, was given during the meeting. 
 
 Meanwhile the high court authorities feel that there is a dire need for expansion of the high court since there is no space for necessary amenities. 
 
 “For this we had approached the state government and demanded more land. The acquisition is not arbitrary. A meeting was held in which collector, commissioner, public representatives and high court officials took part. We have only made a demand, the state has offered us land based on their assessment,” principal registrar Tarkeshwar Singh said. 
 
 Collector Nishant Warwade could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
