PANAJI: Goa chief minister   left for a medical checkup at Lilavati   in Mumbai on Monday and may travel to the US for further treatment. Before leaving for Mumbai, Parrikar, who also holds the finance portfolio, constituted a three-member cabinet advisory committee comprising senior ministers Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar,   and Francis D’Souza and authorised them to sanction up to Rs 5 crore in his absence for emergency needs that includes administrative expenses.

 Sources said Parrikar, who had a meeting of his party MLAs and senior functionaries on Monday, gave a broad hint that he may be away for six to eight weeks from the state if he goes to the US for treatment. Senior officials told TOI that an order would be issued in a day or two outlining the arrangements that would be in place to run the affairs of the state. “It will all be spelt out in black and white,” a top bureaucrat said.
 
 Late in the evening, in a video message, Parrikar said it was due to the prayers and blessings of all Goans that his “health has improved” and he was “able to come to Mumbai for his first checkup. And for complete recovery, if the doctors in Mumbai recommend that I should go out of the country for a few days for treatment of this illness and to get well, then I may do so.”
 
 Parrikar, who left for Mumbai at 3.30pm, held meetings with his cabinet colleagues, including Sardesai and D’Souza and briefed them about his plans. “He will go to Mumbai and decide on the next course of treatment. In case, he has to travel abroad, the three-member committee will look after the day-to-day affairs of the government. The purpose of forming a committee is to have a collective wisdom of the ministers,” D’Souza said.
 
 Sardesai said the reason for forming a ministerial panel and entrusting it with financial powers was to ensure that the government machinery did not come to a standstill over financial approvals. “Any financial sanction above Rs 5 crore will be taken via videoconferencing with the CM,” he said. Dhavalikar, who was away in Delhi leading an allparty delegation from Goa to impress upon the Centre to resolve the mining crisis in the state, did not attend the meeting. The three-member committee has one senior minister representing both the allies —   president Sardesai and MGP’s Dhavalikar — while former deputy CM D’Souza is representing BJP.
 
 Parrikar, who holds charge of 20 portfolios including home, also held meetings with top bureaucrats and police officers, before leaving for Mumbai.
 
