MUMBAI: A 15-minute joyride on a boat cost three 17-year-olds their lives as the vessel carrying them and their 29 college classmates, most of them girls, capsized off   beach on Saturday morning. 

 Nine of the students swam back to the shore while 20 were rescued by locals with help from   officials. All are 17 and are Class XII students at   in Dahanu. The deceased have been identified as Sonal Surati, Janhavi Surati and   Mayavanshi. Their bodies have been recovered. 
 
 The police have arrested owner of the boat Dhiraj Ambire and the two men who were helming the boat at the time of the incident; one has been identified as Mahesh Ambire. Dhiraj has been booked under sections 304 (a), 280, 282 and 34 of the IPC. A source said that Mahesh, who has been booked under IPC Section 304 (a), also helped in rescuing the girls. 
 
 The incident took place around 11.15am when the students, after finishing college lectures, were taking a stroll on the beach in front of their school and spotted the boat. As the boat service was introduced recently, the teenagers decided to take a ride. After bargaining, Mahesh agreed to give the students a ride at Rs 20 per person. Though the boat’s seating capacity is only 10 people, Mahesh let all of them get in- —some on the lower berth and others on the top. 
 
  
  
 An eye-witness said the students were not wearing life jackets though there were some on the boat. “The students who were carrying their backpacks kept moving around and clicking selfies,” claimed the eye-witness, adding that when the pilot turned the boat to return to the shore, it capsized. “We managed to rescue 11 students. Water had entered their bodies and they were shivering,” said Mahesh Kini, a fisherman. The Coast Guard station in Dahanu immediately initiated search and rescue efforts. 
 
 A boat and a helicopter were sent for the operation. The students who were rescued said that as the boat was turning, those on the lower berth gathered on the staircase to climb up. “However, as the staircase was narrow, all the weight shifted there and that’s when the boat capsized,” said a student, Aarti Surati. Locals said the boat service started on January 10 and they had been charging Rs 50 per seat. 
 
 According to a source, the service was illegal as permissions were not in place. District officials said they are ascertaining if safety procedures were followed on the boat. “We will continue search for any missing students,” said aCoast Guard official. School principal Sopan Ingle said, “We allowed the students to leave early as there was an exam on Monday.” 
 
 Two of the rescued students are still in hospital while the rest have been discharged. Gloom descended on Masauli village, Ambedkar Nagar in Dahanu, where the three deceased resided. All the three were arts students. 
 
 Locals said they were diligent students and would take a stroll on the beach everyday after classes. Sonal’s father   as well as Sanskriti’s relatives said the boat owner should have not allowed so many students on the boat and demanded strict action against him. “We had been seeing the boat and decided to take a joyride,” said Vaishali Mayavanshi, a survivor. (Inputs from V   and Yogita Rao)
