NEW DELHI: On the eve of the  , the Delhi government hoped that the Centre would enhance its share in central taxes—a demand made for over 15 years now. The   government is also hoping that the Centre would allocate funds to boost its plans to introduce electric buses to promote ashift to clean energy.

 It has been learnt from reliable sources that in the annual pre-Budget meeting at the ministry of finance, deputy chief minister   made aspecial reference to the state’s intention to introduce electric buses. For that the government is learnt to have sought for Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 With air pollution posing an existential threat to Delhi, the government circles have been increasingly talking about shifting to greener public transport. TOI had reported earlier that chief minister   had made his keenness for a city-wide plan for zero-emission vehicles known to officials. Last year too, Sisodia had reiterated the demand for an increase in the share in central taxes.
 
 This year also, the government sees public transport and pollution as the key challenges. Electric mobility across buses, private cars, taxis, three and two-wheelers would be focused on. But sources in the CM’s office cautiously pointed out that electric mobility could not be a quick fix for pollution, though it’s part of the long-term plan. The government has been proposing to add electric buses to its public transport fleet this year. This is in sync with its attempts to promote clean energy.
 
 According to sources, the biggest challenge in making electric mobility a reality is understanding the capital costs involved. Another test would be to set up facilities to charge these vehicles. “When you think of scaling up the idea beyond buses to vehicles on the streets like taxis, threewheelers, two-wheelers and even private cars, the scope is huge and will require a detailed policy for execution,” a source said.
 
 There are plans to make way for standard-size electric buses to run on the longer routes and midi and mini-sized ones to provide last-mile connectivity between   stations and residential areas within a 5-km radius.
 
