NEW DELHI:   rubbished BJP’s allegations that   finance minister P   favoured  , accused in the   scam, through the “80:20 gold scheme”, arguing the Modi government reaffirmed the said policy in Parliament months after coming to power.

 Deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma said Nirmala Sitharaman, former commerce minister who now holds the defence portfolio, fully embraced the scheme restricting import of gold in Rajya Sabha on August 13, 2014. The   minister was responding to a question on gold trade.
 
 The 80:20 scheme announced by RBI restricted import of gold to state trading entities and “star trading firms”, with the condition that 80% of imported gold will be for domestic consumption and 20% would be mandatorily exported after value addition.
 
 Dismissing Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s allegation that Nirav Modi’s firm was approved to import gold just a day before the Lok Sabha results, Congress said orders to allow “star trading firms” as importers were issued on May 15 and 21, 2014, by the government and the RBI.
 
 “On representations from Gem and   and recommended by Directorate General of Foreign Trade, Star Trading Houses/Premier Trading Houses were also permitted to import gold under ‘80:20 scheme’ with restrictions that only those trading houses will be permitted to import who have done so prior to Aug 13, 2013 (when restrictions on gold import were imposed),” AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said.
 
 The RBI circular of August 2013 stated that “star trading firms” could be allowed to import gold.
 
 Calling BJP’s charges as “lies to distract from PNB scam and the government’s complicity in the flight of Nirav Modi”, Surjewala asked if the government would file an FIR against Nirmala Sitharaman who justified the scheme in Parliament. He said besides the minister, the finance secretary too had justified the scheme on August 21, 2014.
 
 “Why are Sitharaman and present commerce minister Suresh Prabhu silent on the issue that is their domain and why is law minister Prasad talking about it?” he asked.
 
 Surjewala said the gold scheme was brought to curb the outflow of foreign exchange as the current account deficit had risen to 4.8%.
 
 In a counter charge, Surjewala said Modi government scrapped the restrictive scheme in November 2014 after justifying it in Parliament, and the move appeared to be designed to help the business of Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.
 
 
