Panaji: With a view to confirm that all mining activities come to a stop on March 15, the state government, on Tuesday, directed the   department to immediately commence inspection of mines and complete all checks by March 16.

 Mines secretary Daulat Hawaldar called an urgent meeting to ensure that the Supreme Court is implemented in spirit and that there is proper coordination between the various departments connected with mining operations.
 
 As per the directions of the mines secretary, all leases that did not commence productions for the financial year 2017-18 will be inspected first, starting Tuesday evening, and a report confirming stoppage of production and transportation in such leases will be prepared. 
 
 Thereafter, leases that were operational after the year 2015, but which stopped production and transportation are to be inspected, followed by leases that are currently functioning, Hawaldar said, further directing that the inspections, which are to be carried out by four teams from the department, also involve representatives of other departments.
 
 Inspections will be carried out beyond March 15 and a report confirming complete stoppage of extraction activities will be submitted on March 16 in keeping with the directions issued by the mines secretary. 
 
 Meanwhile, till a legal opinion is sought with regards to transportation of extracted ore from leasehold areas beyond March 15, Hawaldar said movement of ore will have to be stopped.
 
 Expressing concern over safety of the mines, Hawaldar sought to know the number of many cases/leases where there is a need to focus on safety. He also sought to know whether, in view of the letter from the director general of mines safety, previous leaseholders should continue implementing safety measures in such leases.
 
 The regional controller of mines said that, legally, leaseholders may not be compelled to carry out safety measures beyond March 16. 
 
 However, the director mines and geology said that leaseholders have agreed to continue mines safety operations beyond March 16.
 
 
