TRICHY: With just a week left for the onset of Southwest Monsoon in the neighbouring states, the district administration in Thanjavur is yet to come out with any plan for the execution of ‘Kudi Maramathu Pani’ (desilting water bodies and canals). 

  raised apprehensions whether the government is going to execute the work as the officials from district level have not convened any meeting with the stakeholders so far.
 
  They also criticised the district administration for not divulging the details of the work done during last year.
 
 After the state government’s announcement for allocation of the fund last year for each district, administration convened a meeting with farmers to discuss the works around the second week of March in 2017. 
 
 In Thanjavur, the meeting was held on March 10. But this year there was no sign of it, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R  , alleged.
 
 “The government said that the farmers would be involved in the work. However, there was no such involvement happening during the process. What is worse, no farmer knew where the desilting was done or how much money was spent on the work and who were all involved in that particular work. Nothing was disclosed by the district administration”, Vimalnathan alleged.
 
 He had submitted a petition with the Governor of Tamil Nadu on January 2, 2018, complaining that there was no transparency with the execution of desilting works, he added.
 
 “There were a few canals where some works were done for a particular stretch just for the namesake without even removing the encroachments. Otherwise, nothing happened, not only in Thanjavur but also in the entire state”, Vimalnathan stated.
 
 When it comes to allowing the excavation of savudu sand (aquifers) from water bodies, the authorities were not clarified that on what basis it was allowed, he said.
 
 “Mostly the soil was utilised only by the realtors. They dug up to 5 meters deep, in the name of taking savudu. It is already the end of May, the district administration should come forward to hold a meeting and should execute the work with complete transparency, so that there will not be any room for malpractices”, he added.
 
 When contacted, authorities from   basin told TOI that the announcement would come within few days from the government and then meeting would be convened.
 
 
