While the first song, 'Ae Watan', from Junglee Pictures and Dharma Productions’ ' ', evoked a sense of patriotism, the next track ' ', which released yesterday, tugs at the heartstrings while taking the central character, Sehmat’s journey forward. The song delves into the feelings of a father, who sends his daughter off on a secret mission to Kashmir. Veteran writer-lyricist   was roped in to pen the lyrics for the song while the trio of Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy has composed the tunes.

 'Dilbaro', according to director  , is placed at a crucial turn in the film and is seamlessly woven into the narrative. She explains, “The story revolves around Sehmat, played by  , who gets married and moves to Pakistan. The moment of sending off a daughter is poignant and heartbreaking, any way. In this case, as she abides by her father’s (played by Rajit Kapur) decision to send her off, it heightens the level of poignancy and emotion in the song. To keep the pace of the film, it was not possible for us to break into a song, so we included it in the progression of the screenplay. It was a perfect moment for us to include a song as rich and sentimental as this one. It also gave us the chance to add a tapestry of Kashmiri instruments and words because Sehmat’s journey begins in Kashmir.”
 
 Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy brought singer Vibha Saraf on board, who is well-versed with the songs of the region. The team was also looking for a Kashmiri folk song based on the theme of bidaai to use in the opening portions of Dilbaro. Vibha sang two-three options for the team and they liked one of them. Interestingly, the essence of the lyrics in the song sung by Vibha turned out to be on similar lines as the song written by Gulzar. 'Dilbaro' was shot across Mumbai, Punjab and Kashmir. The joke on the set was that, since the shooting began, the bidaai costume was worn a hundred times. “The song encapsulates her journey from India to Pakistan, so we shot it across locations that will be seen in the film,” says Meghna, adding that her father and the composers took a day each to pen and compose the songs for the spy drama.
 
 'Dilbaro’s lyrics reflect the emotions between a father and his daughter on the day of her bidaai. While the daughter says, ‘Yeh dehleez oonchi hai paar kara do’, the father says ‘Mud ke naa dekho dilbaro’. When put into the context of 'Raazi’s narrative, the lyrics also have a layered meaning. Through the song, the father assures his daughter that he’s with her and she must not be scared. Meghna expresses, “I am sure writing the song was emotional for my father, too. The imagery and the words he has used are so sentimental and fragile. I think the extra shade of love in the lyrics is because of the father and daughter emotion involved in the song.”
 
 Alia’s father, filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, and Meghna’s father, Gulzar, were among the first few people to see the rough cut of the track, much before it released. While it moved Gulzar, Bhatt also couldn’t hold himself back. Meghna recalls, “Bhatt saab was teary-eyed which was gratifying to see because he’s not too easy to please.” 
 
 'Raazi', presented by Junglee Pictures and Dharma Productions, and produced by Vineet Jain, Karan Johar, Hiroo Yash Johar and Apoorva Mehta, releases on May 11, 2018. 
 
