BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday directed the BBMP to de-seal an Indiranagar bar-cum-restaurant which was shut down due to alleged sound pollution on December 20.

 Justice Vineet Kothari also sought a joint survey report from the BBMP and the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board ( ) regarding sound pollution from the lounge bar, Tippler on the Roof, on 100 Feet Road. The court said the authorities may either conduct surprise or notified inspections on the bar premises.
 
 Amit Agarwal, the petitioner, claimed the Tippler on the Roof operated by Pink Panther Hospitality Limited has been functional since November 16, 2015 and that the BBMP’s “illegal” action rendered around 70 employees associated with the restaurant jobless.
 
 Earlier, counsel for the petitioner told the court that the BBMP had earlier sealed its premises in April 2017 after complaints of sound pollution. Though the civic body had later allowed the bar to reopen after being satisfied with the measures taken, the BBMP shut the bar again on December 20, citing the same reason, he said. He claimed the bar has taken measures to prevent the breach of peace of the neighbourhood citizens and agreed for a joint inspection by the BBMP and the KSPCB.
 
 The BBMP told the court that a survey report on December indicated that the noise level was higher than the prescribed limits and the action was initiated following complaints and also an order passed by the high court in response to a PIL filed by the local residents' welfare association.
 
 
 
 
 The high court on Wednesday directed the BBMP to take decide on plastic ban in the city.
 
 Narrating a Singapore experience wherein placing of chewing gum by a child on the sensor delayed Metro services by two minutes and the authorities swiftly banned use of chewing gum, Justice Vineet Kothari said Bengaluru civic authorities also need to take such decisive steps regarding plastic.
 
 Disposing of a petition filed by M/s 360 Degree Prints Ltd, a business firm in west Bengaluru involved in manufacturing plastic flexes and other items, the judge asked the authorities to afford an opportunity to hear the petitioner's concern.
 
 BBMP officials said the action was initiated as per the direction of the department of forest and ecology and the notification issued in March 2016. The petitioner had approached the court against the December 8, 2017 order by the authorities to shut down their business.
 
 
 
 
 The high court on Wednesday pulled up the BBMP for not giving proper instructions to its law officers in cases pending before it.
 
 Justice Vineet Kothari wondered as to what can be expected from the civic authority if it doesn’t care to respond to the high court’s order. The judge indicated that the court will be constrained to call the BBMP commissioner and make him sit for an entire day in the court if proper measures are not put in place to give effective instructions to the law officers representing the Palike.
 
 As the advocate representing the BBMP pleaded that he did not receive any instruction, the court adjourned the hearing to next week.
 
 
 
 The high court on Wednesday passed an interim order directing the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH) to immediately treat 25-year-old Raghavendra — a person affected by Pompe disease, a rare genetic disorder — without raising any objections on his age.
 
 Justice A S Bopanna passed the order after hearing a petition filed by Sathyanaranaya Reddy, father of the patient. The treatment would cost Rs 2.25 crore annually.
 
 Pompe belongs to a group of around 50 lysosomal storage disorders that affect one in about 8,000 people. 
 
 
