PUNE: A highspeed superbike in the hands of an unskilled rider is a recipe for disaster. Add bad roads to the mix, things can turn deadly very, very fast.

 Though the Indian market for superbikes is still very niche — only a few thousand superbikes are sold a year in India — it is growing 30% annually. With the country’s roads not being of the best standards and the number of accidents involving two-wheelers on the rise, the entry of these highspeed bikes has ignited a fresh debate — should we improve the condition of our roads, to make them safer for highspeed riding, or should we keep highspeed riding off the roads.
 
 Experts and industry players say rash riding, not superbikes, are responsible for accidents.
 
 
  
 
 Girish Jalan, a member of the Roadshakers biker club, says while members of rider clubs always follow rules, the “stunt-loving crowd” is the problem. “Most people you see on the roads with accelerating bikes have a modified vehicle, with loud silencer etc. Sometimes, they buy second-hand bikes and ride them recklessly, posing a serious threat to themselves and others.”
 
 At any time, on any road, one is likely to find a youngster on a superbike zig-zagging through heavy traffic at breakneck speed. Even if the rider causes no accident, he definitely leaves alarmed motorists in his wake. ToI spoke to a student riding his friend’s highspeed bike on FC road. “It takes a while to learn to ride these bikes well. When you ride such a bike for the first time, the acceleration can catch you off guard,” he said. 
 
 “These bikes are thrilling. But they can truly be enjoyed on uncrowded highways. On city roads, it is best not to accelerate because there are too many vehicles and nobody follows lane driving,” he warned from experience.
 
 Moreover, these bikes are here to stay. “As a society, we have moved from a 100CC bike to an average of 125-150CC bike. We will keep moving further up, and superbikes are going to be there. These bikes have all the safety features, but we need to educate youngsters and teach them control when riding these bikes,” said  , assistant general manager, R&D, Hero Motocorp.
 
 Besides, there is no separate data on the accidents involving just superbikes. In the absence of concrete data, blaming superbikes for the rising number of accidents is not fair. What about our roads, then? Are they at fault?
 
 Advocate Sachin Godambe, social and road activist, holds drivers, superbikes and the roads accountable. “First, what is the need of such highspeed bikes when the speed limit in the country is much lower? Second, the roads and speed breakers can pose problems. Overspeeding riders can severely injure themselves, or harm others if they hit obstacles on the road.”   said special licence should be issued for powerful bikes. 
 
 “Roads need to improve and licences should be handed out with more care,” said  , owner of  , which works on motorcycle modifications.
 
 
