AHMEDABAD: Union home minister   announced establishment of a national portal to report crimes against women and children and a dedicated laboratory to investigate these cases. Singh was in Ahmedabad on Saturday to inaugurate 24th All India Forensic Science Conference.

 The three-day event, jointly organized by the Directorate of Forensic Science Services (DFSS), New Delhi, Raksha Shakti University (RSU) and   (GU), has about 300 participants from various national and state agencies. Over the three days, it will see over 200 paper and poster presentations along with panel discussions where national and international experts would participate.
 
 Singh in his speech mentioned that India has a long history of applying principles of forensic sciences for crime detection with Chanakya mentioning reasons for death in Arthashastra.
 
 “Many believe that stringent laws or lengthening the sentence can work as deterrent. I, however, believe that solving more and more crimes and better conviction — where the criminals are assured of a punishment — can instil fear,” he said.
 
 Singh elaborated on developing technologies such as DNA fingerprinting and profiling and said that the government is determined to develop world-class facilities in the field. “I also urge the experts to develop standard operating procedure (SOP) for all the forensic science laboratories (FSLs) so that there is no contradiction between different labs,” he said.
 
 “I was also embroiled in a controversy recently when someone had posted my morphed picture mentioning that Gujarat Police were on my feet. I had to clarify that someone had played mischief. The same tricks are used to incite the youths in Jammu and Kashmir and miscreants use it as a tool to disturb society’s peace. Sexual harassment, stalking, bullying on cyber space is a reality and we are setting up a national portal where citizens can report directly,” said Singh.
 
 Singh advocated uniform syllabus for forensic science studies and also announced setting up a council of forensic science practitioners.
 
 Vikas Sahay, director general, RSU, said that it is for the first time that the conference is hosted by universities. “Our effort is to bridge the gap between field practitioners and academia so that the research can be translated into policy decisions,” he said.
 
 Prof  , vicechancellor, GU; Dr  , DG, GFSU; Pradeepsinh Jadeja, MoS (home) of Goverment of Gujarat; A K Ganjoo, director, DFSS; and  , joint secretary, MHA were also present at the event.
 
