CHANDIGARH: The   (PCS) officer  , who had proceeded on ex-India leave in October 2016 to the United States and did not join back after completion of her extended leave period till last month, has resigned. But the Punjab government has not accepted her resignation and has started the process to chargesheet Kaur.

 In an e-mail sent to the TOI from the US, Surinder said, “I just want to tell you that I had sent my resignation to the Punjab chief secretary on December 22, 2017.”
 
 TOI had on January 20 reported that the state government was going to chargesheet her.
 
 A senior functionary of the state personnel department revealed as per rules, any officer who proceeds on ex-India leave has to join back before applying for either extension of leave or to submit resignation. The officer revealed, “Since her resignation has not been accepted and she is being chargesheeted, Surinder Kaur will not get post-retirement benefits like the gratuity amount and leave encashment money.”
 
 Surinder was granted extension of leave till December 18 last year, but she did not join the duty even after that. Having joined the PCS on June 26, 2014, Surinder was posted as Moga SDM on July 13, 2014 and was later also handed over the additional charge of commissioner of Moga municipal corporation in June 2015. On completion of just over two year service period, she had proceeded on ex-India leave in October 2016 to the US till June 2017. She moved an application for extension of leave till December last year but the state government rejected it in June last year. But the officer failed to join back.
 
 TOI in its October 25, 2017, edition had reported that the PCS officer had chosen to approach chief minister Captain   for extension of leave through ruling Congress MLA from Moga Dr Harjot Kamal Singh. Thereafter her extension of leave was approved till December 18 last year. The Moga MLA had said since Surinder was earlier posted as SDM at Moga and is an honest officer, he had recommended her case for extension of leave on humanitarian grounds. The MLA had then told TOI that as per his information, the PCS officer’s husband and in-laws were settled in the United States.
 
 
