MYSURU/MANDYA: Continuing his attack on the JD(S), Congress president  , during the   on Sunday in Mysuru, asked former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda to come clean on his party’s support to the BJP. Last week, Rahul had riled the JD(S) by calling it the ‘B’ team of the BJP. On Sunday he described it as “Janatha Dal-Sangh Parivar” and claimed it was a party with no ideology.

 “JD(S) has to make it clear whether they are the BJP's ‘B’ team and 'Janata Dal-Sangh Parivar'," Gandhi said at a public rally in K R Pet, a JD(S) stronghold. “This election will be fought on ideological principles of two national parties. But JD(S) doesn’t have its own principles.” Referring to the JD(S) top brass, he said “People of Karnataka want to hear from you about your stand on supporting BJP and RSS.”
 
 The Congress president, who is in the fourth round of campaigning in Karnataka, ended his two-day tour of the old Mysuru region, a stronghold of JD(S), with a rally that drew thousands.
 
 The Congress also went ahead with its plan to induct seven rebel MLAs from the JD(S). They joined the ruling party in the presence of Rahul. The rebel MLAs including Zameer Ahmed Khan, Chaluvaraya Swamy, Iqbal Ansari, Balakrishna, Ramesh Bandisiddegowda, Bheema Naik and Akhanda Srinivas Murthy had resigned from Karnataka legislative assembly on Saturday, a day after they voted in favour of Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha election. Along with the seven, former JD(S) MLCs M C Nanaiah, Sarovar Srinivas and B Ramakrishna also joined the Congress. 
 
 Earlier at a public rally, Rahul had accused the Narendra Modi government at the Centre of being scared to face the no-confidence motion that was moved against it in Parliament. “The logjam in Parliament has persisted for nearly two weeks,” Rahul said. “The Modi government has successfully stalled Parliament because it is afraid.”
 
 Backing his theme of the PM being afraid, he said: “Desh ka chowkidhar is just watching as rich people run away with cash worth crores of rupees. The 55-inch man will not open his mouth even if there is threat of invasion from Chinese. He just enjoys sitting in Jhula with the Chinese PM.”
 
 On the continuing violence in Jammu and Kasmir, Rahul claimed the deaths of both civilians and soldiers during Congress rule (2004 and 2014) were fewer than after BJP took over in 2014. “We had contained terrorism in J&K, but now BJP has unleased terror with more civilian and soldiers being killed in the region.”
 
 Rahul also said he was confident of his party not only winning assembly elections in Karnataka, but also the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Congress needs to fight harder at every booth and defeat BJP,” he said, adding that the fight was between two ideologies — one that created conflict and another that united the nation.
 
 The AICC president also lauded chief minister Siddaramaiah and credited him with running a clean government. 
 
 
