 performed live in concert, ‘Love For Life Begins With Music’, for the Cancer Patients Aid Association ( ) to create awareness about the ill-effects of tobacco. The event was held last night at  .

  
  
 
 Multi-talented Farhan, who dons several hats including that of a director, screenwriter, producer, actor, playback singer and television host rocked the stage. He entertained the people present with his enthralling music. The event was about music with a message that came together harmoniously. 
 
  Akhtar said, “This was my first performance for CPAA and I am happy to be associated with this important cause that can make a difference to society. I am thankful to be invited by them to use my music as a platform for spreading awareness.” 
 
 Cancer has become one of the 10 leading causes of death in India. Around 40per cent of cancer cases are due to tobacco use every year. CPAA, the   and the   came together and joined the world to observe World No Tobacco Day in India by creating awareness about the ill effects of tobacco in all forms and to wage a battle against this emerging epidemic. 
 
  YK  , founder-chairman and CEO of the CPAA, said, “This year the theme for World No Tobacco Day is: Tobacco and Heart Disease. The campaign will demonstrate the impact of tobacco on cardiovascular health of people worldwide. CPAA is a registered charitable organization working towards the cause of cancer patients since last 49 years, thereby taking care of the total management of the disease cancer from awareness to rehabilitation.”
 
  
  
 
 Farhan, known for his acting, directing and singing is a part of the band Farhan Live. This band plays around the globe and is known for their energetic performances and unique renditions of the songs they perform. The band performs hit songs like ‘Senorita’, ‘Zinda’, ‘Havan Kund’, ‘Jagoo’, ‘Rock On’ and many more. Amidst power-packed performances Farhan also incorporates a lot of his hit shayaris -- an element that wows the crowd any age group.
 
 
