BENGALURU: Distribution of books to primary and secondary school students across the state may be affected this academic year, thanks to the election code of conduct.

 Sources in the department of public instruction (DPI) said the process of floating new tenders was delayed following riders from the election commission. With schools set to reopen on May 28, sources said students may not get their workbooks and diaries in time. The DPI had submitted a representation to the election commission seeking permission to float a tender.
 
 Both DPI and   officials admitted to the delay and said steps have been taken to expedite the process.
 
 DPI commissioner PC  , confirming the delay, said: “We have received clearance from the election commission and the tender process will commence shortly.” He, however, maintained that distribution of other books won’t be affected and added: “Printing is completed with respect to 11packages and everything will be on time.”
 
 The state government is supposed to distribute 6.24 crore textbooks to students.
 
 Availability of paper an issue, says supplier
 
 Of these, 4.02 crore books have been printed. “The diary and workbooks have been introduced for the first time and we didn’t anticipate the poll code of conduct to come in the way of calling for tenders. We hoped to supply these books to students by June,” a department official said.
 
 According to the tender floated by  , printing and supply of books to block education offices should have been completed by May 15. MD of the society,  , said Rs 131 crore had been earmarked for printing and distributing 510 titles of textbooks to students from classes 1 to 10. “We’re confident of meeting the deadline,” he said.
 
 However, there could be another glitch. A textbook supplier said: “Availability of paper is a major issue. Since paper for textbooks is provided only on-demand basis, we have to procure it on time. Paper mills have been complaining of water scarcity.” He said the temporary closure of   and Papers Limited (TNPL) due to shortage of water could delay sourcing of paper.
 
