MUMBAI: The father-son duo responsible for the death of three teenagers, after their overcrowded   capsized off   beach on Saturday, settled for a   in the hope of making more money through tourism than fishing. The cost of a weekend ride was Rs50. 

 Dhiraj Ambhire, owner of the boat and his brother Mahendra, residents of Nani Dahanu, were into fishing till a few years ago. They decided to venture into the business of ferrying passengers as fishing was not getting them good money, said locals. It was the only boat that ferried people for a joyride.
 
 Dhiraj’s son Parth and Mahendra were operating the boat when the mishap occurred around one nautical mile at sea. Three girls, aged 17, drowned, while 35 students were rescued. While Mahendra is recuperating in hospital, Dhiraj and Parth were remanded to police custody till January 19 by the Dahanu sessions court. Mahendra may be arrested and produced before court on Monday. The three have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder (IPC Section 304), rash navigation of vessel (Section 280) and conveying person by water for hire in unsafe or overloaded vessel (282).
 
 Dahanu police told the court that the boat ‘Dahanu King’ did not have permission to ferry passengers. On January 10, when it began its ride, villagers had questioned his move. Dhiraj had then told locals that he would soon obtain permission. A few floating tubes and life jackets were placed in the ferry but they were not handed over to the passengers. The beach is a tourist attraction for locals and for people from across Mumbai and Thane.
 
 While Parth and Mahendra also got down to rescuing the students, fisher-folk who were at sea, threw their nets around the mishap site to ensure the victims and bodies did not drift away. The bodies of Sonal Surati and Janhavi Surati were found soon after the mishap. The body of Sanskruti Mayavanshi was found near the fishing net. Many fishermen swam to the mishap spot and pulled out the students. 
 
 Meanwhile, the second search operation by the Coast Guard air station at Daman on Sunday morning, following hearsay that more students could have drowned, was called off after all were accounted for.
 
 
