AHMEDABAD: Around 80% of the reflectors installed near the great Indian bustard Sanctuary near Naliya have either fallen down or are damaged, exposing the endangered birds to threat of electrocution. The state government has asked power transmission companies to install insulated wires or reflectors to keep birds from colliding with high-tension power cables.

  
  Government officials said that in a meeting with power transmission companies in September 2017, the   forest department had made it clear that all power cables in areas inhabited by the great Indian bustard should be underground. Sources said that after the meeting   (GETCP) had shown willingness to comply with the requirement and a private firm had sought permission of the forest department to take its cables underground.
 
 However, instead of laying underground cables, these   decided to install reflectors. The officials said that in their proposal to the forest department, these companies had said that till the lines go underground they were installing reflectors.
 
 Devesh  , a member of   and the local Corbett Foundation, says, “Recently, I realized that the quality of the reflectors was very poor. I decided to carry out a search and found that of the 100 such reflectors that I checked, over 80 were damaged or had fallen down.”
 
 Gadhavi said that quality of the reflectors was so poor that they broke down soon after installation. The collector had asked these companies to lay underground cables six months ago, but the work hasn’t yet begun.
 
 Gadhavi said “Reflectors only reduce chances of collision, but do not completely eradicate the threat. We need to take power cables underground to save these birds as there are very few left in Naliya area.”
 
 The issue of the threat posed by power cables escalated after the electrocution of a satellite-tagged Great Indian Bustard. It was in July, that after satellite tagging of two juvenile great Indian bustards, one of the two tagged birds died, after it flew into one of the several GETCO high-tension power lines passing through the area. The bird met its death within a month of being tagged, causing eyebrows to be raised.
 
 Forest officials said that in the last two years, two great Indian bustards have died in Nalia area. The main power line passing through the area has 13 cables, which is a virtual death trap for the birds, said a senior officer.
 
 
