Nagpur: At a time when Maharashtra forest department is unable to get its own elephant rescue unit at Pench in place by shifting seven tuskers from Gadchiroli, Uttar Pradesh forest department is transporting 11 pachyderms from Karnataka to Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. In one of the biggest such exercises eight elephants and three calves are being moved over 2,500km from south to north in 10 trucks. The convoy on Thursday morning took break at Fetri near Gorewada in order to protect the elephants from scorching sun, drawing curious onlookers to the spot. “The trucks carrying elephants had stopped at Gorewada for feeding, bathing and health check-up. We are taking them for rhino monitoring and patrolling. They will also be helpful for tackling man-animal conflict. We have 13 elephants at Dudhwa camps,” said Mahavir Koujalagi, deputy director, Dudhwa, who is leading the group. “To restore number of elephants in the camps, Karnataka has come to our rescue by gifting these elephants. The job becomes tougher in Terai region during rainy season when forest is dense,” says Koujalagi. He along with one ACF, three foresters, one RFO and three vets, besides 60 others including transporters, drivers, mahouts, caretakers, and labourers are taking care of the tuskers during transit. Apart from trucks carrying the elephants, there are three cars and a jeep for vets and motor pump to draw water. There are water tanks of 200 litres in the truck from which they can drink water. Two trucks carry feed like water melons, sugarcane, green grass, coconuts, and jaggery etc.  WWF-India’s senior project manager Ajinkya Bhatkar was present at the spot and coordinated team’s visit with the help of Gorewada officials. “As per request by UP PCCF (wildlife) SK Upadhyay, our field formations have been coordinating with the convoy throughout the tour. We got water tankers at Fetri and water melons to avoid dehydration to animals,” said Bhatkar. The convoy started on April 29 from Karnataka with four elephants from Shimoga and seven from Mysore. It took four days to reach Nagpur passing through Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Maharashtra. “It will take another week to reach Dudhwa,” says Koujalagi. “As there is no shade in Gorewada, we took shelter under trees near Fetri. It is a tough exercise. We bagged the contract to shift the animals. So far, we have shifted 50 odd elephants to places in MP, West Bengal and Uttarakhand,” said Mohammed Rafi, the transporter. “Our biggest problem is not feeding elephants or transporting them but food for around 30 men from Karnataka, who want rice and in Maharashtra and MP, ‘roti-sabji’ is the staple diet,” adds Rafi. Breakfast for all costs around Rs8,000, lunch and dinner even more. “This is a classic example of interstate coordination. We have failed to shift elephants from Gadchiroli to Pench to create a permanent rescue unit but UP is transporting elephants all the way from Karnataka by spending lakhs of rupees,” said local wildlife lovers.