NEW DELHI: Do women drink and drive? They don't, if you go by   statistics. 

 In 2017, not a single woman was booked for driving under the influence. This year, only one has been hauled up for the offence. Women also figure as a negligible group in all other traffic offences but form a comparatively sizeable 10% of all accident fatalities.
 
 Delhi Police says the lower ratio of male drivers to female explains why the prosecution statistics are so biased towards males, with just one woman licence holder to every 71 men in the city. 
 
 The total number of traffic fines issued in the capital in 2017 is also heavily skewed against men - of the 26 lakh challans, only 600 involved women.
 
 Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner (traffic), appeared to justify these figures by saying women were more careful when driving than men. Last year, police booked 1,67,867 drivers for jumping a traffic signal, of whom 44 were women. Only 514 women were among the 1,39,471 drivers caught for speeding. 
 
 
 
 
 The traffic police study on accidents did indicate a trend of this sort with only 2% of drivers involved in accidents shown to be women. The study claimed that while speeding was the biggest killer on roads in Delhi, women were seen to generally drive within speed limits.
 
 A traffic police officer said, “While analysing trends, we found women in general are more careful while taking turns or at intersections where the maximum number of accidents takes place. This sort of road behaviour not only means women figure very low in the number of violations, but is also an example for all drivers.”
 
 According to transport department figures, 11% of the total number of vehicles registered with the RTOs are owned or driven by females. Women might not be perpetrators of accidents, but the cops discovered that they were disproportionately bigger victims of accidents. According to the traffic police, 10% of the victims of fatal road accidents were women, while around 14% of those injured in accidents happened to be female.
 
 Police also said that the number of women falling victims to traffic mishaps has been increasing in the past two years. A major reason was because women often ride on two wheelers without helmets. Another reason according to senior officers is the women choosing to sitting one-sided on a twowheeler while riding pillion.
 
 According to one study by the Union ministry of road transport, 97 women were killed in road accidents in Delhi in 2015-16, 44 of them pillion riders. Only five people were killed in an accident in which a woman driver was involved.
 
