CHANDIGARH: For those who prefer   for its freshness, the excise department has decided to allow the non-pasteurized variant of beer at functions and marriages. Besides, the concept of microbreweries would also be promoted with relaxations for off-premise sale.

 As per the new excise policy for 2018-19 approved on Wednesday, in keeping with the demand for draught beer at marriages and other functions, it has been decided to allow L2 (retail sale) license holders to supply it to the events straight from the breweries. “All levies will have to be paid at the level of L2 licence holder,” reads the policy. 
  
 
 Amarjeet Singh, president of  , says the idea can click for small gatherings, like corporate parties held in banquet halls. Otherwise, he says, draught beer will not be a viable option at marriages where liquor is served in large volumes.
 
 “Draught beer has its own charm and is a concept worth trying. Many booze lovers feel that this method favours lagers and hoppy beers due to the freshness. As it is not pasteurized, the bacteria involved in the fermentation process aren’t killed. So, the beer should be served as soon as possible,” says Karamjit Singh, a liquor contractor from Patiala.
 
 Satish Arora, president of   Hoteliers’ Association, expresses apprehension over the move to promote draught beer. “The bars in the state are already closing down due to dipping revenue and the excise policy has further hiked licence fee that will spell more trouble for them. The state government should have taken steps to revive the industry,” he says.
 
 This time, the state government has also decided that beer bar owners will have to get supplies from L2 licence holders and not directly from L1 licencees (wholesale vending). Five star hotels have, however, been exempted from the condition. “It has been noticed that in the past the bar holders would get supply from L1 and sell it at cheaper rates to customers. The issue came up during meetings with liquor contractors in the state,” says an official.
 
 Meanwhile, the excise policy adds that to encourage setting up of micro-breweries in the state, off-the-premises sale had been allowed in 2013-14 and it continued till 2016-17. “However, the previous year’s policy did not continue with this and microbreweries were allowed to sell beer only on their registered premises. But now, the concept is growing and there is a need to promote it,” reads the policy.
 
 However, the number of model liquor shops in the state could go down in view of the reduction in group size. “Earlier, it was mandatory to have one model liquor shop in each zone or corporation where Indian made foreign liquor and beer are made available. But now it will not be possible as the number of liquor vends has also been reduced this year,” the official adds.
 
 
