NEW DELHI: The Delhi government is aiming to ensure that there are zero power cuts in the capital this summer. Based on the past few years’ trends, the power department anticipates the   peak   to touch 7,000MW.

 Rolling out its summer action plan, the department has said arrangements for surplus power have been made to ensure zero power cut. Last year, there were multiple power cuts in Delhi. 
 
 Power minister Satyendra Jain said that the department had ensured over 99% supply during peak summer months in 2017 that had witnessed an all-time peak demand of 6,526MW in June. The target is to improve this figure in 2018 by ensuring no power cut, said Jain.
 
 Following chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s directions, the power department claimed to have strengthened the consumer complaint handling mechanism for prompt and effective action. 
 
 After studying the trends in the summer months — April to September — in the recent years, the power department has made arrangements to establish a matching sub-transmission and distribution system. “Arrangements are in place to have around 700MW surplus power than the anticipated peak demand of this year,” said the minister.
 
 A new 220kV substation has been commissioned at Papankalan and another 220kV substation at RK Puram will soon be commissioned. Around 800 new transformers have also been installed across the city. 
 
 An official said that to match the increased capacity in the transmission system, the discoms have augmented their distribution system by adding new grid substations, lines and cables. The department is ready to run its Badarpur plant in case of an emergency.
 
 “The control rooms have been established to handle the situation. Dedicated numbers related to emergency and consumer complaints will also be publicised for common people,” said Jain.
 
 The government will also deploy additional manpower, vehicles and teams to meet all emergency situations. Daily reports on consumer complaints and system breakdowns will be submitted to the power department by the discoms.
 
 
