LUCKNOW: With just one day left before campaigning ends for   byelection, the third bypoll for   under the Yogi Adityanath government is turning into a major test for the   (RLD). 

 Having lost two bypolls in March, BJP is under pressure to counter the Opposition, which is collectively gearing up for the 2019 elections.
 
 With Muslim leaders returning to the RLD and the community turning up in large numbers at the rallies of father-son duo   and  , the RLD leadership is hopeful of a thaw in communal tension.
 
 Undoubtedly, the RLD is fighting to regain political significance in western UP where it stands decimated by the BJP in the 2014 general elections. In the 2017 assembly elections too, only one MLA won, who also recently joined the BJP.
 
 For the RLD, the biggest solace is the return of senior Muslim leaders, including former minister Kokab Hamid, former MP Amir Alam and former MLA  , who can play a crucial part in mobilizing more than six lakh Muslim voters to support the RLD. Another push was when Lok Dal's Kanwar Hasan withdrew his candidature in support of RLD's Tabassum Hasan. This development has also stopped a possible division of votes.
 
 In the wake of communal riots of November 2013, western UP had witnessed a deep divide between Jats and Muslims,and posing a major challenge for RLD. For the last six months, the RLD chief and his son addressed more than 100 public meetings, appealing to the two communities to return under the party umbrella. 
 
  The RLD leadership is also playing the emotional card in the name of former prime minister  , whose death anniversary is on May 29, a day after the polling date. 
 
 The RLD candidate, supported by the SP, BSP and the Congress, is posing a tough fight to the BJP, compelling it to polarize the votes on communal lines by digging out the Muzaffarnagar riots and the   controversy. "For us, polarisation of voters is the only trump card, particularly given the dominant position of the two major vote banks - Muslims and Jatavs - with both turning against us," explained a senior BJP functionary camping there. Jayant though said, "We will show how ganna (sugarcane) will defeat Jinnah. Our concern is Rs 13,000 crore dues the state government has to pay to the cane growers and the prices of petrol and diesel".
 
 
