LUDHIANA: Wednesday being the last day for getting the Swachhta app downloaded on mobile phones, civic officials were told to get the maximum downloads in order to get a good ranking in the  . Sources revealed that MC commissioner   had issued oral orders that officials who did not procure 500 app downloads during the day would be issued show cause notices for their failure. So, on Wednesday itself, MC got the app downloaded on 8,000 mobile phones, with the total tally reaching 22,000 — the highest downloads in Punjab. 
 
 Civic officials, right from morning, were busy asking each and every person they knew to download the app. Recently, a team has also completed a survey of the city for Swachhta Survekshan, and this downloading of the app is one of the important factors to get maximum marks. 
  
 Sources revealed that on Tuesday, each official was told to download the app on 300 mobile phones, while on Wednesday, the target was increased to 500. Officials even passed on messages to download the app through   groups, so that the maximum number of people could download it, and MC Ludhiana could get a better ranking. 
  
 One official claimed they had managed 22,000 downloads in the city — the highest in the state — while Amritsar was in the second position at only 12,000 downloads. He said they would get a good ranking this time, because they had achieved maximum possible public participation. Regarding the Survekshan, he said the team had stayed in the city for almost two weeks and checked everything in detail. They also took a review from the public about the MC’s working. Now, they are hopeful of getting a good ranking this time. 
  
 Meanwhile, Jaskiran Singh said since it was the last day for downloading the Swachhta app on mobile phones, MC staff had been asked to get the app downloaded in their respective areas. Notably, this app has been designed for redressal of civic issues, and residents can send their complaints through this app to officials concerned. Problems like non-lifting of garbage, choked sewerage system, lifting of dead animals etc can be uploaded on the app, which will be redressed by civic officials. 
  
  
