AHMEDABAD: Students from the state who took the   examination on Sunday had mixed responses about the exam, but almost all said the maths section was lengthy and a greater number of questions than usual were from class XI syllabus.

 Barring one or two incidents of tussle between parents and school authorities there was no untoward incident reported from the city or state. According to parents in  , authorities in a school scanned each student thoroughly and even forced them to remove their earrings, religious threads and cash. They even threw out handkerchiefs of students.
 
 Students from the state, irrespective of board, whether   or state board, found the paper tough. Several students who refused to talk about the paper said that the difficulty level of the paper was greater than in last year. 
 
 The students also claimed that in the past, adequate weightage was given to class XI chapters. There were more questions based on class XI chapters.
 
 An expert said that much of the paper was from question paper of a tuition class. Even the figures were not changed, claimed the expert. 
 
 Nirvesh Joshi, a student of the   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board, said that the maths paper was lengthy and required lot of calculation, which ate up time.
 
 Kalpesh Shah, another student, said, “Barring 3-4 questions in all the sections, I found the paper quite easy. However, for my friends the physics section was tougher than maths and chemistry. Most of the questions were asked from the syllabus of class 11.”
 
 This year over 12,000 students of Gujarat were expected to have appeared for the examination on Sunday. The JEE Main test scores are used for getting admission in premier engineering and architecture colleges in India including Indian Institute of Technology, National Institute of Technology and locally renowned institutes like Institute of Technology, Nirma University; PDPU and DAIICT among others, where admission to 50% seats is granted on the basis of JEE Main score.
 
 Gujarat had mandatory JEE for admission in engineering colleges but since 2016, the state government re-introduced Gujarat Common Entrance Test (GujCET) due to which less number of students are appearing in JEE. Sources said that earlier when 60,000 odd students were taking their JEE examination from the state, with the introduction of the GuJCET, the number has reduced to just 20%.
 
 
