CHANDIGARH:   finance minister   is not in favour of burdening the people of the state with new taxes or cess in his second budget expected to be presented in the second week of March.

 He told the TOI, “I don’t foresee any scope for tax unless some departments like the local government department want some cess to be levied which they can retain, which they are entitled to and which are not part of the Goods and   (GST). That is my logic.”
 
 The finance minister reasoned whatever tax the state government will impose, it will result in lessening of the GST compensation to the state. “If I collect Rs 100 crore from somewhere, compensation of Rs 100 crore would go minus. So why would I saddle my traders or my people with any tax when I am getting the GST compensation for it,” said Manpreet.
 
 Regarding the expectation from the   government’s second budget, Manpreet said he would try in this budget to focus on financial consolidation and would try not to spend more than the state government’s revenue.
 
 At the same time, he said he would also try to take care of some of the flagship programmes of the central government in rural and urban sectors. These schemes include smart cities project, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and drinking water schemes.
 
 “Basically, I’ll leverage every penny which Punjab can spare into these central government schemes because most schemes are either 60:40 or 50:50 ratio,” he added. The finance minister said the state government would try not to have too many state government schemes and would try to create a bank for its buck.
 
 “We are going to be the net compensation state for the next five years. So the finance department is not much interested in levying of fresh taxes or cess until necessitated by the specific department,” said the FM. He agreed that the delay in release of the GST compensation to the states by one month by the central government had affected the states badly. This has also resulted in the delay in release of salaries to the state government employees in February, he said.
 
 Sharing his vision to come out of the vicious debt circle, Manpreet said there was a need to remodel the Punjab economy from a food grain producing economy into a more industrialized or a service oriented economy. “That model has to be now put in place in the next four years,” he said.
 
 The minister further added, “If we don’t do that, then in the post GST situation when this compensation stops flowing after four years, your resources are going to be severely affected if we can’t kick start our industry and investment in Punjab.”
 
 
