Caution is central to a woman’s experience of life in the country. Rooted in a widespread anger over the everyday violence against women and the caution that they are constantly told to exercise is Mallika Taneja’s play Thoda Dhyaan Se. Conceptualised by the Delhi-based   artiste, the play is a sarcastic ‘guide’ for women on how they must be in order to avoid any ‘trouble’ they might encounter. “The play is a satire on how women should dress and behave to avoid any trouble in these ‘bad times’. It came about a year after the Nirbhaya incident and just after the   rape case. There was a very healthy discourse around victim blaming that was being generated during these times,” says Mallika.

  
 
 For over three years now, Taneja has been travelling across India and the globe with her short act  . The play is to be staged in Pune for the first time 
 
 
 The play is sort of a response to people who link women’s clothes to the abuse they encounter. The act starts with Taneja standing still for a long time, dressed in nothing. She then anxiously pulls up a pairs of shorts, wearing dresses over multiple tops, covering her feet with layers of socks and padding her throat with scarves in order to save her dignity. “This is not something people are used to being confronted with on stage. A woman's body has a lot of power. Audiences take up the challenge. In the beginning, when we are just looking at each other, it is a very beautiful moment. Some find it tough and cannot meet my eye, but many look back without shame. In fact, many look back with camaraderie and love,” she adds.
 
 
  
 Having performed the play more than 100 times, from college auditoriums and basements to intimate salons and at international festivals, Thoda Dhyaan Se has been well received by all. “The resonance that this piece finds in India is incomparable of course. But I have also had some very powerful shows abroad. Many women share their stories and struggles with me later on. Some men share their experience as well. I am yet to meet viewers who are unaccepting of this piece,” shares Mallika.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
