HYDERABAD: A blog by wedding planner ‘Shoptzers’, showing pictures of a bride heavily-decked in diamond and gold necklaces, helped Anti-Corruption Bureau nail tainted Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority official Purushottam Reddy in a corruption case. The blog was titled ‘An exquisite affair of a wedding that took place in the city of pearls’.

 The blog, written in December 2017, shared details of the gala wedding of Purushottam Reddy’s elder daughter in December 2016.
 
 Based on the information on the blog,   served notices to Shoptzers, N convention Center in   (marriage venue), Tibarumal Jewellers at   and Kota Jewellers in Jaipur, seeking information on money paid by Purushottam Reddy and his family. It mentioned the places from where the jewellery was purchased. The honeymoon was in Maldives.
 
 Reddy had surrendered in ACB court and was remanded to judicial custody last week.
 
 ACB deputy superintendent of police, J Ashok Kumar, told TOI, “They explained everything on the blog about the wedding. Photographs were posted on the blog where Purushottam Reddy’s elder daughter can be seen wearing diamond and gold jewellery. The detailed article glorifies the richness of the marriage. Under Section 91 of the criminal procedure code, we have served notices to the website based in Chennai as well as the jewellers and marriage venue.”
 
 ACB sought IP address from where the blog was written and also the source of wedding photos and information written in the blog.
 
 The ACB found that Purushottam never registered any land or building in his name, instead he entered into a sale agreement in the name of any relative, so that it doesn’t reflect in the registration department.
 
 A top ACB official said, “Most of the corruption took place in layout permissions. The accused official collected huge sums.”
 
 Reddy had invested in infrastructure projects and also purchased villas and apartments. “Purushottam used to pay around ₹2,000 per sqft when the rate was ₹6,000 per sqft and this is part of the bribe. In Kokapet, Purushottam allegedly purchased a villa for ₹1.47 crore in instalment from 2011-14 in the name of his brother-in-law Srinivas Reddy, but didn’t register it. We suspect this was done to hoodwink ACB sleuths. In real estate sector, Purushottam allegedly pumped ₹6 crore in   in the name of his family. He also floated an infrastructure company with the aim of getting ₹30 crore project at Manchirevula.
 
 
