NEW DELHI:   (NDMC) has decided to focus on improving the   in its   and bring them on a par with  . A proposal made by the civic body’s chairman, Naresh Kumar, in the final budget 2018-19 seeking to upgrade four schools into international institutions with facilities including smart classrooms, Wi-Fi, digital library, etc.

 “Two schools near Gole market and another two in Lodhi Colony will be developed into international institutions. The infrastructure will be upgraded with facilities like swimming pool, multipurpose playground, auditorium, kitchen for mid-day meal, water ATM, digital library, etc. Once complete, they will cater to over 3,000 students,” said Kumar.
 
 For the first time, a student exchange programme has also been introduced in the budget in which selected children will be sent to schools in Northeast. This step is expected to encourage students to perform well.
 
 “Last year, we sent six students to Belgium to understand the education system of foreign countries. Taking a cue from our last experience, we have decided to tie-up with government schools of Sikkim and other Northeast states for the student exchange programme. We will expand the ambit of the programme to other states based on reviews,” he said.
  
  
 A sport facility will also be developed at Mandir Marg. “We will form three under-10 girls’ football teams in schools at Sarojini Nagar, Gole Market and Lodhi Colony, which have football fields. The girls will be provided free coaching, free nutritious diet and free kits for training. In all, 30 girls from each school will be selected and trained by experienced coaches through agencies like Delhi Soccer Association,” Kumar said.
 
 The civic body will also be giving RFID-based smartcards to all its students. “The smartcards can be used for tracking students and parents will receive a notification through SMS whenever any child enters or leaves the school premises. The card will also have health report, bio-data and school performance of the student,” added Kumar.
 
 A proposal has also been made to develop mobile classrooms for children of labourers working at construction sites in NDMC area.
 
 “The redevelopment plan of Nauroji Nagar, Sarojini Nagar and Netaji Nagar will see major construction work in the coming days. The children of construction workers fail to complete their education due to migration by their parents. Each child will be given the minimum basic education through the mobile classrooms. The vans will be weather-proof and also have medical facilities along with a small library,” said Kumar.
 
 
