March 30 morning. Marketing professional Arun Sathe was quickly having a bite and glancing through an Excel sheet at his Vimannagar home before vrooming out to meet the year-end target. A message popped up on his smartphone from a prospective client.

 An e-business card! “April Fool message in advance was inside,” Sathe said with disgust, recalling the incident.
 
 “It was an unnecessary message that distracted me (from the Excel sheet) at a crucial time,” he added.
 
 Well, cellphones became a part of life at the onset of this century. From a device to call and text, it has gone smarter over the years. Touch-and-swipe sets with high “memory” have elbowed out those with buttons. Hundreds of apps have checked in too, leaving many hooked to phones even at social gatherings or official meetings.
 
 “The smartphone is a necessary evil. It helps in getting updates or locating a place, but at the same time distracts a person socially,” Pradeep Bhargava, the independent director of Persistent and several other companies, said.
 
 “I have personally seen half the people looking down at cellphones at presentations and meetings. It’s like disrespecting the person making the presentation. This is the outcome of becoming slaves to phones,” said Bhargava tersely.
 
 Smartphone is a “bug in the software” for young techie Kaushal Kishore. “The must-have gadget is a cause of distraction. But the phone does not beep itself. Always, a human being is instrumental in making it ring,” said the software engineer with IBM.
 
 Sangram Lonkar just cannot do without his “smarty” set. “My soccer pitch has gained popularity across the city because of my smartphone. But I fume when people take calls or send pictures while playing. It may cause injuries, too,” said Lonkar, the proprietor of a late night sports facility in Kondhwa.
 
 Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) feels irritated when someone intently uses smartphones in get-togethers. “Such people sometimes do not even respond to a question,” he said. 
 
 Gokhale’s wife, Meghana, could not agree more. “Excessive use of cellphones has resulted in less of reading and conversation. It is making people introverted,” she said.
 
 So, do smartphones make people selfish? “Not only selfish, the gadget leaves many isolated,” said Bhushan Patwardhan of Savitribai Phule Pune University.
 
 Basic etiquette often takes a backseat because of over-indulgence in smartphones. “Many put their cellphones on speakers and discuss personal matters in public, listen to songs, bhajans and watch video clips. Ironically, they argue if anyone requests them to use headphones,” he aded.
 
 “Selfish slaves” of cellphones often take risky strides on streets, posing a threat to their lives as well as of others. “Use of social media sites on cellphones has become addictive to some. They use these while crossing roads or driving. I have seen such instances but luckily there was no accident,” said Gokhale.
 
 Who takes the blame — the gadget or its nonchalant user? The users like you and I for sure.
 
 “Apps like FaceTime and WhatsApp on smartphones are so useful in capturing memorable events and sharing them with family and friends. But excess of anything is bad and that is the case now. On social media sites like WhatsApp, the same messages keep circulating,” said Gokhale. 
 
 Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Parag Sancheti echoed him. “Frequent beeping of smartphones is an irritant. These days, there is a flood of messages from different apps. Half of them we can do without.” 
 
 To avoid distraction, Sancheti does not carry his cellphone to the operation theatre. “If there is something urgent, the person concerned will call me on the landline,” he said.
 
 Like surgeons, getting hooked to smartphones is not a good proposition for pilots either. “Flying involves team work and conversations help in team building. It is more important than a pilot getting immersed in social media sites on a smartphone,” said Gokhale, a veteran fighter pilot.
 
 Besides making people “me-and-myself”, smartphones restrain people from exercising their brain. Patwardhan explained, “In landline days, people could easily recall phone numbers. We are losing our ‘memory’ now. There is a general rule that any organ, function or capacity may face dystrophy if not used for long. This applies to memory too.” 
 
 Dr Sancheti felt the same. “Smartphones have made our memory idle to an extent. But I still remember my wife’s number,” he said in a lighter vein, adding that cellphones were having an impact on the youth because they were getting addicted to it.
 
 A senior psychiatrist of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (CAP) 200 of Nimhans in Bengaluru advised to keep children away from cellphones. “Keep screens off. Children are human beings and they should learn from human beings, not from moving images,” said the specialist, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Patwardhan said, “The WHO/International Agency for Research on Cancer has classified radiofrequency electromagnetic fields as ‘possibly carcinogenic to humans (Group 2B)’ based on an increased risk for glioma, a malignant type of brain cancer, associated with wireless phone use. A study showed a 40% increased risk for glioma among people using cellphones for 30 minutes per day over a 10 year period. While there is no conclusive evidence in support or otherwise, these early warnings should be taken seriously.” 
 
 Some simple precautions can help. Keep conversations as short as possible, preferably not exceeding five minutes. Try to use wire connected headphones (not bluetooth) for longer calls.
 
 “If you are not using the phone for a long period, it is better to put it on the airplane mode. It cuts off all risks of cellphone radiation,” said Patwardhan.
 
 
