CHENNAI: We might have heard people fond of cocktails saying, “One cannot buy happiness, but can make a cocktail, and that’s kind of same thing.” But have you ever wondered that even such cocktails are protected under trademark rights and infringing them might cost a fortune?

 Yes, some of the most popular cocktails are trademarked by distilleries. For instance, McDowell & Company Ltd owns ‘Bloody Mary’ and ‘Screw Driver’. Though such rights have been registered by major brands decades ago, they do not protect them or enforce them as these names have become generic.
 
 Saying that enforceability of such rights depends on several factors such as use of the mark in India and globally, intellectual property attorney Raja   said, “If they have accepted the use of the marks and the marks have become generic, it is difficult to enforce. But if they have coined the marks and have taken efforts to protect them, then they can.”
 
 Selvam said he had never come across of any such infringement suit so far, but clarified that the right is for the mark/name and not the recipes. “Recipes can be protected under trade secret but here the idea is to make it available in other places. So it’s not applicable here,” he added.
 
 “Recently, Starbucks had taken legal action against a distillery for naming its beer Frappuccino. But Indian companies are rarely bothered about protecting brands. The knowledge is very limited,” Selvam said.
 
 Shatbhi Basu, the ‘first woman mixologist in India’, was taken aback by the very information that some of the classic cocktails are trademarked. “Nobody can trademark a drink, unless the owner of the drink or the person who invented it claims such right. I am sure none of the distilleries invented such cocktails except for a few,” said Basu. She gave the example of   that partly owns right over ‘Smirnoff Moscow Mule’. “But that does not mean that I cannot make a Moscow Mule. Only the one owned by the company is called ‘Smirnoff Mule’,” she said.
 
 But for  , founder of The Mixologist, an institute for bartenders in Goa, the information was not new. “I am aware that some of the cocktails are trademarked. But I have never faced or come across a case of infringement,” he said. “There is no point in trademarking a beverage and restrict its use. The more people use the recipe the more popular it becomes. And no one sticks to the original recipe,” Ali said.
 
 According to intellectual property law practitioner  , who wrote about a few of the trademarked cocktails in a blog selvams.com, “It would be very difficult to tell whether use of such trademarks amounts to infringement given that there are several factors to be considered – ownership of the mark, usage not only in India but also globally, and the fact that these marks have become generic.”
 
 
