Kolkata: After a disappointing end to their I-League campaign,   are all set to make their   debut against   at Rasmee Dhandu Stadium in Male, Maldives, on Wednesday.

 Aizawl last played on March 2 against Gokulam FC in the I-League. Although they won it 3-1, the players will hope to forget this season’s I-League as soon as possible and shift their focus to the AFC Cup, where they have been grouped with Bengaluru FC, Bangladesh’s Abahani, apart from their Wednesday opponents New Radiant.
 
 As far as their coach   is concerned, he is more than happy with the preparation after taking up the coach’s job midway through the season.
 
 “The players have had a lot of time to recover after a hectic season. We arrived in Maldives two days back and the players have been able to get accustomed to the condition well,” said Kashyap.
 
 Despite the preparation, the experienced coach is very much aware of the challenges his team will face. 
 
 “It’s a very young team and for many of the players, it will be the first time they play outside India. Also, the weather here is humid and we would be playing at 4pm when it would be quite hot,” said Kashyap.
 
 The coach, however, has no plans of playing a defensive game and wants to go all out. “We would definitely play an attacking game and try to get all the points available,” remarked the Mumbaikar.
 
 Like the last few matches, Léonce Dodoz Zikahi and Lalkhawpuimawia are expected to make up Aizawl FC’s forward line. Andrei Ionescu will man the midfield alongwith Alfred Jaryan, Albert Zohmingmawia and David Lalrinmuana, who is expected to make a comeback after being out with injury.
 
 As for their defence, a lot will depend on Masih Saighani, since their other central defender Lalchhawnkima will not be available in the group stage because he was signed past the registration deadline. Another player who will be missing as a result of this is H Lalmuankima, who joined the team on loan from FC Goa. Avilash Paul, meanwhile, will be making a comeback after he warmed the bench in the last match as Lalawmpuia got a start.
 
 As for their opponents, New Radiant are coached by former Sporting Clube de Goa and Mumbai FC coach Oscar Bruzon, and have been unbeaten in their last 13 matches. This is their ninth appearance in the tournament and in their opening match they beat Abahani Dhaka, thanks to a solitary goal by Ali Fasir, who in all likelihood will be Aizawl FC’s biggest threat on Wednesday.
 
 
