Kolkata: Literary criticism, as they say, is a minefield. And it’s not just because no two opinionated critics worth their salt would agree on something; in essence, it’s because criticism, by its very nature, is a highly subjective exercise, made more complicated — arcane, almost — by numerous schools of thought. But what if certain aspects of it could be mathematically codified? A team of scientists at the Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur, claims to have done exactly that.

 There’s still a long way to go for the endless debates to be silenced but take, for example, a relatively ‘easy’ question — easy in the sense that it can have a definite answer. For years, Tagore’s critics have spoken and written reams about who the real hero of ‘Muktadhara’ is: is it Dhananjay, often thought to be a shadow of Gandhiji because of his message of peace and inclusiveness? Or is it Ranjit, the pro-industrialisation, more aggressive protagonist? Here, even though Dhananjay seems to outshine Ranjit, can we say the latter is of lesser importance? 
 
 Here is where the algorithm developed in the laboratories of IIEST’s computer science and technology department could come handy. It basically computes several characteristics — weighted degree, closeness, tension, relationship, centrality and correlation — among characters in the text. The mathematical model can also determine the influence of one character over another to arrive at a conclusion as to who is central to the story and why. The research findings have been published in the prestigious US-based engineering journal ‘IEEE Transactions’.
 
 The scientists have applied their mathematical model to two of Tagore’s most loved works, ‘Muktadhara’ and ‘Raktakarabi’. In case of the latter, while Nandini emerges as the clear hero, the debate has always veered around Ranjan and Raja for the second slot. “We have shown why Ranjan is a clear second and not Raja through our complex graph theory that arrives at a conclusion after analysing the number of entries, the number and extent of dialogues, the reaction of other characters to those dialogues, the influence the characters wield on the progress of the storyline,” said Susanta Chakraborty, a faculty member of the department. He is the project leader and has done this research on Digital Humanities with his associate Samya Muhuri and Sabitri Nandan Chakraborty, a faculty member of Bengali from Kalyani University.
 
 The researchers say this Digital Humanities work is unique because while others have used the Natural Language Processing technology to arrive at their deductions, the IIEST team has used a complex graph theory to derive an algorithm that can digitally calculate texts. “If you are using Natural Language Processing, your calculations and graphs would be language-specific. The algorithm we have developed can be used for any language. Though we have, for the moment, used it on Tagore’s works, it can be applied to Shakespeare’s texts too,” Susanta said.
 
 The scientists explained that certain metrics have been used to develop the algorithm. “To put it simply, we have used metrics like average weighted closeness centrality, average ‘betweenness’ centrality, weighted edge contribution factor, clustering coefficient and diversity. Each character has been plotted as a node mathematically,” Susanta said.
 
 The number of times a character interacts with others is taken to be the fulcrum of the calculations and is given a weightage accordingly. For example, since Nandini converses the maximum number of times in ‘Raktakarabi’, she automatically emerges as the hero. Similarly, the number of conversations/interactions are calculated for the other characters too and plotted on a graph. Each node has been given a weightage and at the end of a mathematical computation, the scientists have shown which node ends up carrying the most weight, making it the central character. Again, they have shown how the nodes react to each other (closeness), the tension between the nodes (betweenness) and how this affects the story, how the nodes negate each other to emerge on top (edge contribution), among other things. “Finally, you are able to calculate which node is the heaviest and is hence the key contributor to the story. It is then easy to calculate values to deduce the other answers too,” Susanta explained. The graph-mining metrics that have been used in this case will next be used on Leo Tolstoy’s ‘Anna Karenina’, where the protagonist and antagonist are barely perceptible, team members said.
 
 “We have also started another project, taking off from this one, where we are trying to correlate between literary texts and the films that have been made from them. We will look at the deviation points to start with, for example, in the case of Bibhuti Bhushan Bandyopadhyay’s, ‘Pather Panchali’ and the Satyajit Ray film,” Susanta said.
 
 
