THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) results 2018 was declared on Thursday, May 3. A whopping 97.84 per cent students have been declared qualified for higher studies.

 The result was announced by education minister C Raveendranath at a press conference held in Thiruvananthapuram. Of the 4,41,103 students who appeared for the SSLC exam, as many as 4,31,162 have been declared eligible for higher studies. Last year, 95.98 percent of students become eligible for higher studies.
 
 
 
 
 The result are now available on the official website of the Kerala Board of Public Examinations (KBPE) - http://kbpe.org. `Naturally, there is a decline in the number of students appeared for the examination this year. But, percentage of students who have become eligible for higher studies. The number of students who secured A + for all subjects and the number of schools where all the students become eligible for higher studies have improved this year’’, the minister said.
 
 As many as 34,313 students secured A+ for all subjects, whereas the figures for the same during the last academic year was 20967. While Ernakulam district come first with 99.12 per cent students clinching eligibility for higher studies, the Wayanad district lagged behind all other districts, despite 93.87 percent of students appeared for the examination becoming eligible for higher studies.
 
 The students can submit the application for revaluation and scrutiny of answer papers from May 5 to 10, 2018. ``The procedure for Plus One admission process would begin on May 9. There would be enough avenues for the winners to pursue their higher studies’’, the minister said. "There is significant increase in the number of schools where all students become eligible for higher studies," he added.
 
 The minister also mentioned that the government had been trying to streamline the continuing evaluation system in schools and expressed hope that the system would matured into a faultless one in the coming years. As many as 2435 students in Malappuram education district scored A+ for all subject, the highest of such feat to be achieved by educational districts.
 
 Schools in gulf countries recorded a pass percentage of 98.9. There were nine examination centers in gulf countries. Of the 544 students appeared for the examination, 538 become eligible for higher studies. Schools in union territory Lakshadweep bagged a 83.02 percent victory. Of the 789 students appeared from the group of Islands, 655 have been declared eligible for higher studies.
 
 PKMHSS Edarikode in Malappuram district earned the distinction for having seated the maximum number of candidates for the school final examination. The school had 2422 candidates for the exam. Government HSS, Kattachakonam in Thiruvananthaouram district had the least number candidates for the examination. There were only two students from the school for the exam.
 
 The examinations were held from March 7 to 28. There were 2953 examination centres in Kerala, Gulf and Lakshadweep, together. As many as 2754 students appeared for the examination as private candidates. The evaluation of answer papers were held in 14 days, from April 6 to 23. 
 
  2018: The students can check their result here by entering their name, roll number, mobile number, email ID.
 
