NAGPUR: Yet another blatant violation has come to fore in laying of cables for  . The company’s optical fibre cables have been found laid in sewage line at Mahal, in violation of all norms. Former mayor and corporator   has demanded immediate action against the company, and also against   ( ) officials, who supervised the work.

 NMC Gandhibagh zone found the optical fibre cables laid in sewage lines while trying to trace choked points in some residential areas in Mahal on Monday.
 
 Former corporator Sudhir Raut told TOI there were complaints from some residential areas at Zenda Chowk about sewage water flowing back into houses for last 5-6 days. “NMC employees from health department started to check all chambers on the sewage line. It came to fore that Reliance Jio had broken into the sewage line and laid optical fibre cables in it. Laying anything inside sewage lines is banned. The laying of cables led to the sewage line being damaged, and caused the choking. I brought the matter to the notice of Datke for proper action,” he said.
 
 On a complaint by Datke, NMC Gandhibagh Zone has asked the hotmix department to initiate action against Reliance Jio. “We have asked for penalty and damages from the company,” an official said.
 
 Datke said action will also be taken against officials of hotmix department, who did not check while the optical fibre cables were being laid. “It is the responsibility of NMC officials to monitor and take appropriate action while laying of optical fibre cables.”
 
 A Reliance Jio spokesperson said cables will be removed immediately from the sewage lines. “Cables went into sewage lines by mistake. We utilized   (HDD) technology to lay cables in Mahal, to prevent inconvenience to citizens, and also avoid trenching the areas. It was due to this technology that sewage line could not be traced,” he said.
 
 The latest incident has also exposed the inquiry conducted by hotmix department two years ago. Reliance Jio had laid cables stretching around 500km and also erected 260 towers across the city in 2015 and 2016. NMC had received large number of complaints against the company for laying cables against the norms in various parts of the city.
 
 In January 2016, the then mayor Datke had directed officials to inspect and ensure there are no cables in service lines, including sewage lines. The department had claimed to have completed the inquiry and also taken action against the company in 2016.
 
 Activist   alleged that NMC and police department were always hand in glove with Reliance Jio. “Two-year-old girl Pinky Solanki died in an unmarked, unguarded pit of Reliance Jio in 2015. NMC and police took action in the case only after a PIL filed by me in the high court. NMC has no control over laying of optical fibre cables in the city,” he said.
 
 
