NOIDA/GHAZIABAD:The   ordered a complete shutdown of all schools and colleges on May 8 in view of the adverse weather conditions predicted over the next days in several parts of north India. The closure orders were issued by district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari late on Monday night.

 No closure orders, whatsoever, had been issued for schools and colleges in the adjoining district of Gautam Buddh Nagar. However, at least six private schools in Noida said late on Monday evening that they would remain closed as a ‘precautionary measure.’ Lotus Valley International School, Sector 126; Gyanshree School, Sector 127; Indraprastha Global School, Sector 93; DPS Noida; Khaitan school, Sector 40 and Step By Step School, Sector 132 decided to remain closed for students on Tuesday as a “precautionary measure,”parents confirmed.
 
 The India Meteorological Department has predicted thunderstorms and rain in several areas of north India including Delhi-NCR. On the basis of the IMD predictions, the Union home ministry had sounded an alert for 13 states and two union territories on May 6.
 
 According to Ghaziabad district administration, officials in several departments have been asked to remain on alert for any kind of exigency that might arise out of the rain and thunderstorms.
 
 Nearly 147 people had died last week and several hundreds injured in thunderstorms and lightning that hit five states of the country.
 
 In Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration issued an advisory to residents to “avoid driving their own vehicles or any kind travel.” The advisory states that the commuters should park their vehicles indoors and not take refuge under trees, electricity poles or hoardings at any cost.
 
 The advisory adds that residents should call up those relatives who are already travelling outside to take refuge at their nearest relatives’ home as and when the weather takes a turn.
 
 “There is no particular timing when such a storm might strike. Hence, residents are requested to keep a watch on the weather and as soon as they sense that the weather is getting adverse, they should not allow their children to move out. All electrical applicances should be switched off,” reads the advisory issued by ADM (finance) Keshav Kumar.
 
 It has also asked residents to remain patient and dial 100 in case of an emergency.
 
 
