It was a red signal the comrades didn’t see. Signs of change in Left-ruled   surfaced in July 2017 when seven MLAs in the 60-member assembly defied the party line to vote for NDA’s presidential candidate  . 

 CPM had little protection when a BJP-IPFT alliance delivered the coup de grace in Tripura, a rout that ended a monopoly as had happened in West Bengal in 2011. The party has now plunged to its lowest electoral ebb, reduced to 16 seats from 50 in 2013. 
 
 The loss of Tripura, where the Left has ruled for 25 years, is not an ordinary electoral loss. It has reduced the communists to just Kerala. The loss has laid bare a deepening divide between pragmatists and doctrinaire elements in the party’s central leadership. 
 
 Manik Sarkar had backed former CPM general secretary   when the politburo witnessed a division to decide which political line the party should adopt to battle the Sangh Parivar. Dumping party general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s call for a tactical alliance with  , Sarkar stood by Karat. Adilution of the stand crept in before the assembly polls. 
 
 A fortnight before polling day, while speaking to TOI, Sarkar said he had not advocated “equidistance” with Congress and the Parivar. The change in stance, it would appear, occurred because he recognised the bigger foe in the BJP. 
 
 Sarkar’s words, if he were to propose an amendment to the CPM draft political resolution during the Hyderabad party congress in April, will carry weight. “Manik-da is a respected leader. If he changes his stand and speaks out, it will be an inspiration to many,” a CPM leader said. Yechury said on Saturday BJP’s “money and muscle power” won Tripura and a CPM statement said BJP consolidated anti-Left votes by “appropriating the erstwhile main opposition party, the Congress”. 
 
 The Tripura result has other ramifications for CPM. First, it has virtually shut the door on Yechury’s re-entry to  . It also throws up challenges for the Kerala unit, for CM   and for former CPM boss Prakash Karat. 
 
 Vijayan is now the lone communist CM and there will be pressure on him to perform to keep BJP at bay. It has also led to questions on whether a hard-line anti-Congress approach practical in Kerala can hold good for the rest of the country. 
 
 On Saturday, while Yechury remained non-committal about the possibility of an amendment to CPM’s draft political resolution at the Hyderabad congress, the onus is on the Kerala faction to explain how such an approach can help boost party’s electoral prospects. 
 
 CPI secretary D Raja said BJP’s victory in Tripura posed a serious challenge not only to Left forces but also to all secular and democratic parties.
 
