SECUNDERABAD: The scorching heat notwithstanding, sanitation workers of Secunderabad Cantonment Board ( ) were busy removing silt and waste material from nalas and stormwater drains on Wednesday.

 The effort is to keep the nalas and drains free from muck, ensure smooth flow of sewer water in monsoon, a good oneand-a-half months away, and avoid inundation of residential colonies.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The SCB top brass is promising to clear all the nalas and drains of silt and grime by May-end so that residents do not face inundation during monsoon, which happens with great force in some areas year after year. “But not this year as we have taken up the process of cleaning nalas and stormwater drains two months ahead of the onset of monsoon. Skilled workers have been deployed to remove waste material and two earthmovers hired to excavate silt accumulated in a thick layer of 3-5 ft in the nalas,” senior sanitary official, SCB, A Mahender told 
 .
 
 He said emphasis is on lowlying areas abutting major nalas and stormwater drains which often face inundation.
 
 Desilting works will also be taken up on the major nala between   and   en route Jubilee bus station ( ). Five residential colonies face deluge whenever there is heavy rain, posing a serious threat to the dwellings abutting the nala. “We have been swept away by the deluge several times in the last three decades and we want a closure to this inundation issue once and for all,”  , a resident of Paigah Colony, said. Agreeing with the concerns of the residents, senior SCB officials blame it on rampant encroachments for the nala’s width shrinking and sewer water gushing into their homes. “We have pulled down all the encroachments along with the nala,” said an official.
 
 The SCB authorities also have the third major nala between Chinna Thokatta and Patny nala on their plate. “We take up desilting every year. But, overflowing of drains/ nalas is happening as commercial establishments are merrily dumping waste and garbage in the nala. We will not spare any efforts to penalise them this time round,” warned a senior official. Sanitary workers will also clean narrow stormwater drains spread in 10-15 km length in several areas. “We will deploy workers in narrow stormwater drains to remove silt as earthmovers cannot be moved there,” the official said. The waste material and silt removed from the nalas/drains would be shifted to the dumping yard, he added.
 
 
