NOIDA: The   in his mid-30s lay rotting for at least two days in the   that was locked and abandoned near   at Sector 108, Noida.

 Hundreds of people passed by but the cab, a white WagonR, did not draw attention as it looked like any other taxi parked by the roadside. On Thursday morning, road sweepers found a strong stench coming from the cab. A closer look revealed all its tyres were flat. Police were informed.
 
 The murdered man turned out to be 35-year-old Lokendra Singh, the owner of the cab who worked as a guard at a private company and lived in Surajpur, around 10km from the spot.
 
 The prime suspect, as of now, is Ajay Sharma, the man hired by Singh to drive the cab. A police officer said it appeared Sharma and Singh were close but had fallen out.
 
 
 
 
 Police said they were probing the possibility of a love affair as the trigger for the crime, but did not elaborate. Sharma, who also lives in Surajpur, is absconding.
 
 The car was registered with an app-based cab service but the driver, Sharma, wasn’t on the platform.
 
 It is believed Singh was murdered on Tuesday (April 17). His family last saw him that morning. Singh’s body had started to decompose when it was taken out of the cab on Thursday morning. It wasn’t clear if Singh had been murdered inside the cab, or killed and stowed in the car, which was then abandoned near Lotus Panache and its tyres deflated.
 
 “The victim had deep injury marks on his head,” said a police officer. “The police did not find any documents in the car.”
 
 Singh was originally from Bharatpur in Rajasthan and lived in a rented accommodation in Surajpur with his wife, two sons and a daughter. He had bought the WagonR in 2016 and hired Sharma last year to drive it. Singh’s brother Jitendra said, “My brother had dropped his family at Bharatpur a few days ago. He left home on Tuesday morning but did not return home. We launched a search but failed to trace him. His mobile was also switched off.” Jitendra had filed a missing person’s complaint at Surajpur police station the same day.
 
 An officer at Sector 39 police station said, “The police team that went to the spot found the cab’s doors locked from outside. The victim was dead. The body had started decomposing.”
 
 Pankaj Rai, SHO of Surajpur police station, said a case under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) of the IPC has been registered against Sharma. “Singh and his driver used to share drinks together. It seems the driver killed him and dumped his body in the car. We have launched a search to arrest the accused,” he said. The body has been sent for an autopsy and the report is awaited.
 
 
 
