Nagpur: With the Nagpur Municipal Corporation able to achieve only 20-25% segregation of dry and wet waste, it is set to lose the special grants from the state government which had set a deadline of 75% by June 30. Against the 1,200 metric tonnes (MT) that is generated every day, the civic body manages to segregate only 240-290 MT up to April this year. Waste generation was a condition for the civic bodies to continue receiving priority and incentive grants. The urban development (UD) department issued a government resolution (GR) on April 27 asking urban civic bodies to segregate all solid waste at source. It cited its last year’s GR to implement 100% segregation of waste at source from May 1. The UDD had made it compulsory for garbage segregation and set a new deadline of May 31 for rural bodies and June end for urban local bodies. All were asked to achieve at least 75% of the solid waste management target by then. It was also made mandatory for all local bodies to set up composting units for disposing off wet garbage. The state government is giving developmental grants for various projects and special grants for innovative schemes. It has started giving incentive grants recently for the local bodies which are performing well under certain parameters. Most local bodies are, however, ignoring the problem of solid waste management. The segregation of waste is a flagship programme of both central and state governments under the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ as they intend to keep the country clean by the 150th birth anniversary year of Mahatma Gandhi which falls in 2019. The GR states that 100% garbage must be segregated at source itself. Wet and dry wastes should also be transported separately to the dumping yard and compost prepared from wet waste.  The NMC’s has focused its drive in a few residential localities and slums in Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth and Mangalwari zones. It has not even been able to achieve 50% of waste segregation. A senior sanitation officer admitted that NMC was going slow on waste segregation and claimed the process to improve the target is on. “Already, the private firm engaged in collecting and transporting garbage to dumping yard has converted its vehicles by providing two separate chambers for dry and wet waste," he said, adding the NMC has also started placing two separate bins in commercial areas. The trouble for NMC has increased manifold as its private operator Hanjer Biotech had stopped its waste treatment plant at Bhandewadi.