GREATER NOIDA: Officials of the   (YEIDA) and the district administration held a meeting on Tuesday with a section of farmers whose plots have been identified for the proposed   airport, taking the first step towards   acquisition. 

 The public hearing with the farmers of Ranhra village was done on the basis of a social impact assessment report prepared by a team from  . Sub-divisional magistrate  , who is the nodal officer for the public hearings for the airport project, said land had been identified in eight villages, including Mukeempur Shivara, Ranhra, Parohi, Kishorpur and Dayanatpur. Around 5,000 hectares would be required for the project, officials said.
 
 Dwivedi said the authorities would abide by provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 2013. According to the Act, compensation for land acquired in urban areas should be twice the circle rate. “The compensation for land acquired in rural areas will be four times the circle rate. The government has notified the proposed Jewar airport as an urban area,” Dwivedi said.
 
 At the meeting on Tuesday, around 500 farmers expressed their views on the acquisition and the compensation to be offered. Some of the farmers whose land came under the notified area demanded four times the current rate, saying the airport area was rural and not urban as had been categorised by the administration. Some of the villagers also demanded jobs against their plots.
 
 In April, the Centre had cleared the site for the airport project and the home and defence ministries had given their no-objection certificates along with an in-principle clearance for immigration services.
 
 On Tuesday, Gautam   MP and Union minister   held a meeting with officials and promised to get a clearance from the environment ministry soon. 
 
 Officials said the foundation stone for the Jewar airport was likely to be laid in October, but that would depend on the timely acquisition of land. The airport project is expected to generate about one lakh employment opportunities.
 
 
