Visakhapatnam: Even though the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has permitted   to proceed with research admissions based on its own entrance test for this time, the varsity has hit another roadblock due to its own internal issues. After the written examination for 90 marks, there was an oral examination for 10 marks, which was conducted by the concerned departments.

 However, a professor from MHRM (Master of Human Resources Management) department refused to award marks to the interviewed candidates, which brought the whole process to a standstill. Due to the same issue, the varsity could not release the results of full-time research admissions of MHRM department, which were released for other departments about a month ago.
 
 According to an official of the varsity, they have scheduled two meetings with the professor in question in the last five days to sort out the issue. However, the professor did not turn up. Vexed over the things happening in the department, it is learnt that the head of the department of MHRM offered to resign from the HoD’s position. He is believed to have communicated to   officials on Wednesday that he will only continue as a professor.
 
 “Interviews for research admissions to MHRM department were conducted by a team of four professors from the same department, including its HoD. However, the professor in question did not award marks to students with MBA qualification, saying they are not eligible for research admissions. We will take a final action based on the professor’s response within the next few days. We want to release research admissions results of all the departments at one time,” said the official.
 
 On the other hand, varsity officials got a communique from the APSCHE to proceed with the admissions on Thursday. Andhra University registrar Prof V Umamaheswara Rao informed that they will soon conclude the research admission process.
 
 Andhra University released its RCET notification in June 2017, inviting applications to fill about 270 MPhil seats and 650 PhD seats. The test had drawn more than 13,000 applications pursuant to the notification in more than 92 subjects. The varsity completed the screening test in September 2017 and was supposed to wrap up the admission process by the end of January.
 
 However, in the first week of January, the APSCHE asked all the state varsities to keep the research admissions in abeyance after the state government decided to conduct a common research entrance test for all state varsities. 
 
 
