PUNE: The   has the maximum number of industrial units in the state with alarmingly high pollution index (PI).

  
 Nearly 4,826 units in the Pune region, including Pune, Satara and   districts, have been kept in the “red category” (highly polluting) of the MPCB, the State Economic Survey 2017-18 has revealed.
 
 “There are many units in the Pune region that are not following the environmental norms. The region has the maximum number of industries in the red category and we plan to take serious action against them by way of show-cause notices,” assistant secretary (technical) of the   said on Saturday.
 
 Industrial units with PI score of 60 and above are kept in the ‘red category’, while those with a score of 41 to 59 are kept in the ‘orange category’. The ‘green category’ includes the units with PI score of 21-40, while industries with a score of up to 20 are kept in the ‘white category’. The purpose of this categorization is to ensure that the industries establish in a manner which is consistent with the environmental objectives. 
 
 The survey has stated that nearly 85,882 industries are under the purview of the MPCB to check for  .
 
 To check the pollution from these units, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) plans to install effluent monitoring systems in the polluting units. It also plans to revisit the comprehensive environment pollution index and revise the existing industrial emission/effluent discharge standards while initiating special drives to control pollution.
 
 In February this year, the state environment department directed the   (MIDC) to take over all the effluent treatment plants under their domain from private industries. MIDC has powers to monitor and take decisions in every aspect with regard to efficient treatment of effluents from all industrial plants in the state.
 
 Environmentalists feel that besides monitoring, frequent checks should also be carried out to curb pollution from industries. “Strict action must be taken against the units causing high pollution,” an environmentalist, who did not wish to be named, said.
 
 The decentralising of the state environment appraisal committee and getting it at the district level too has not helped, he added.
 
 
