TIRUPUR: Residents of   have closed down a  , which resumed operations a week ago in violation of a tripartite agreement inked last year to relocate the same, saying it posed threat to public health.

 
 The plant at   near Perumanallur was allowed to operate only till November 2017. But the plant owner did not honour the agrrement, a revenue official said.
 
 The tar mixing plant was set up by a private contractor, who has taken up road laying project in Avinashi region. Though the plant was set up in a private land, farmers and villagers objected to it, fearing health problems.
 
 Villagers took out a protest when the contractor continued to operate the plant and following this a tripartite meeting was held in presence of the district sub-collector. The contractor agreed to relocate the plant after operating it till November 2017. Though the operation was stopped as promised, the plant was not dismantled, said a police officer.
 
 “However, the plant resumed operations last week,” said  , a villager. He said they had earlier visited   near Palladam, where a tar mixing plant was in operation for several months and came to know that it had caused health problems, especially lungs and respiratory problems. 
 
 “The tar and tiny metals are mixed at a temperature of 50 degree Celsius. Heavy heat, pungent smell and smoke are spreading all over the atmosphere. Dust is another problem. We could see ‘black oil’ sediment in our farms and houses. Our cattle also face health issues due to it,” he said.
 
 The villagers staged a fresh protest in front of the plant and dug a pit to prevent any vehicle from entering the plant. Police officials, however, pacified the villagers and the plant was subsequently closed down.
 
 The villagers said they would not allow the plant to function again. “There could be pollution due to the tar mixing plant, but the chances of it causing health problems are remote. In this case, the contractor did not honour the promise of relocating the plant,” said an official attached to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board.
 
