Madurai: The achievement a school for visually challenged in Madurai has done would make even the top private schools in the district envy. For the 19th consecutive year the special school has achieved cent percent pass in the SSLC results. All the 23 students, including six girls from Indian Association for the Blind School, who appeared for the SSLC exam this year, have passed with flying colours. Among them, 22 scored over 300 marks and four students scored over 400 marks. S Paunthai, headmistress, said that the support from the school authorities made it possible. They had given individual care to the students and monitored their performance continuously. The students were provided with audio format of the lessons. B Senathipathi from Tirumangalam in Madurai secured 445 marks and emerged as the topper of the school. He managed to score the marks, even though he did not get the expected marks for Mathematics. He is planning to apply for revaluation. He scored 97 marks in Tamil, 88 in English, 66 in mathematics, 97 in science and 97 in social science. “I expected around 470 marks and at least 80 for mathematics. I always wanted to pursue computer science course, but not sure whether it is available for visually challenged persons,” he said His father R Balakrishnan, a private contractor, said that he had been a bright student since childhood. He completely lost his eyesight while he was in the 8th standard and he was admitted to the special school in the 9th standard. He proved that loss of eye sight cannot stop him from achieving. He prepared using the audio recordings of the lesson, he said. S Abinaya, another student from the school, too passed the examination with flying colours. A resident of K Pudur in the city, she secured a total of 432 marks. Her lowest score was also for mathematics as she scored only 75. Her scores in other subjects are 91 for Tamil, 82 for English, 87 for science and 97 for social science. Abinaya’s father is into weighing machine sales, whereas her mother is a special teacher herself. Abinaya said that she expected only around 400 marks. Her family was very happy with the marks. She wants to pursue commerce accountancy stream in the higher secondary.