Four decades on, the craving for ‘Bajji’ (a very popular evening snack) at the Ammaiyappan snack shop on Kaliamman Kovil Street near   in the city is still growing among the customers.

 A steady flow of food lovers can be witnessed daily at the main shop in Kaliamman Kovil Street and its branch at Nandhi Kovil Street from morning till evening mainly to have a bite of either vaazhakkai (plantain) or potato bajjis.
 
 Founder proprietor  , 59, says the reason for people coming back again is due to the use of ‘asafoetida’ in the   batter, which, not only gives it a better taste but makes it light on the stomach. Also, instead of using readymade batter available in the market, homemade flour makes the bajjis stand apart.
 
 "Our shop is known for bajji which brings a unique taste. Besides, the use of quality ingredients won’t cause any health issue. In most places, people would avoid eating bajji as it would cause acidity problems. Here, the mixing of asafoetida keeps such problem away," says Kamarajan.
 
 The price of the snacks is also an added attraction for the customers who can have five pieces for just Rs 10. Other snacks that have earned a good customer base are – Paruppu vadai, Vellai Bonda, Onion Pakoda and Kaarasev. Customers who prefer a takeaway also turn up in good numbers everyday.
 
 Named after his beloved parents, the outlet remains a hotspot for savoury lovers since 1977 when Kamarajan began his business on a pushcart. He also recalls his teenage when he and his siblings went around some parts of the city to sell the snacks made by their widowed mother at home. After two decades of business on the pushcart, he shifted to a rented shop where the business is continuing till date.
 
 A humble person, Kamarajan says that utmost care is taken to ensure the quality by offering healthy as well as tasty snacks to the customers.
 
 "Customer is king of my small business which has been sailing smooth for so many years. I place my customers’ health and the taste on top of my priority chart. The nominal profit is enough for me to run the show and provide employment to four people," says Kamarajan, whose shop makes a turnover of Rs 7,000 to Rs 8,000 a day.
 
 Ammaiyappan Snack Shop on Kaliamman Kovil Street Promises Delicacies That Are Made With The Customer's Health In Mind
 
 
