KOHIMA/SHILLONG: Christian-dominated states of   and   will go to polls on Tuesday. 

 Meghalaya and Nagaland have 60 Assembly seats each, but voting will be held for 59 constituencies in the two states. The election has been countermanded at Williamnagar in Meghalaya following the killing of the NCP candidate in an IED blast on February 18, while NDPP chief Neiphiu Rio has been declared elected unopposed from the Northern Angami-II constituency in Nagaland. 
 
 Buoyed by its back-toback victories in Assam and Manipur polls, BJP is trying to make the region free of both Congress and the Left. But its success will be clear on March 3 — the counting day. The poll results will also redefine Congress position as it fights to save Meghalaya, one of the two remaining bases in the Northeast. If Meghalaya falls, Congress will be left with only Mizoram. 
 
 BJP has adopted different strategies to fight elections in the NE. In  , where the fight is over Left and Right ideologies, it is in the driver’s seat of the alliance with Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura. But in Nagaland and Meghalaya, where religion plays an important role, BJP has chosen to play a subdued role lest it should rub the voters the wrong way. The party has used its trump card — PM Narendra Modi — just once in the two states. 
 
 Modi, however, went on offensive against the Left Front in Tripura by addressing four rallies at select venues in two days. A large number of his cabinet colleagues were drafted for this tiny state only. In Nagaland, after its old ally and ruling Naga People’s Front (NPF) rejected its proposal for a pre-poll seat-sharing agreement, BJP turned towards  , an offshoot of NPF, headed by its old loyalist Neiphiu Rio, for collaboration. 
 
 BJP leaders say they have grown big enough in Nagaland to contest election on their own terms. But the party is finding it hard to shed its Hindutva tag in Nagaland after the influential Church warned voters against “invasion” of Hindutva forces in the state. Modi, during his speech at Tuensang, skipped this issue and harped on checking corruption and usheringin development. 
 
 At Phulbari in Meghalaya, where the Church has not been as vocal as in Nagaland, Modi immediately switched to religion. He spoke about his government’s efforts to rescue Kerala nurses, primarily Christians, from Iraq. The previous day, Congress president Rahul Gandhi slammed him over burning of churches and attacks on Christians in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 In Meghalaya, BJP has opted for a possible post-poll collaboration with NPP so that its image does not affect the regional party’s winning chances. Like Tripura, Nagaland has a tradition of recording high voter turnout though the number of electorate is less than half of what is present in the Left-ruled state.
 
 
 
 
