KANNUR: Two days after the CPM celebrated the victory of farmers in Maharashtra, the party workers joined policemen to tamp down a protest by local residents against the acquisition of paddy fields for construction of a national highway bypass. They also allegedly set fire to a shed erected by the protesters. 

 The shed was set on fire around 2pm on Wednesday after the agitators were arrested and removed from the venue.
 
 The residents of   in the district, have formed a collective,  , and have been agitating for months against the NH bypass, but things heated up on Wednesday after officials decided to begin a survey for the project.
 
 It was around 8.30am that more than 50 residents reached the paddy field and started raising slogans. When police approached them, some of them doused kerosene over themselves and threatened immolation. Though the police said the district administration was ready for discussion, the agitators said they would agree for talks only if the officials stop the survey. However, the authorities refused to give any commitment and the protesters continued their agitation even as the officials went on with the survey of neighbouring fields. 
 
 Soon, a fire brigade reached the spot along with a large number of policemen. They arrested the agitators, as many as 49 of them, including 18 women. Within minutes, the shed was set on fire, allegedly by CPM workers.
 
 The CPM, which has been opposing the agitation though local CPM workers were part of it, has created the impression that the agitation was hijacked by communal forces. The party has even expelled 11 party members for supporting the agitation. Later, the CPM paraded around 50 people in a press conference, claiming that they were all residents of Keezhattur and that they supported construction of the bypass, but Vayalkilikal alleged it was a fake claim.
 
 Though the BJP tried to seize the opportunity in order to make inroads into the locality and extended its support to the agitation, the protesters were not very keen about it. The   has distanced away from the protest while the CPI has announced their support to the agitation openly. After the agitators were arrested, the BJP and a few environmental groups staged a demonstration in front of   police station. Vayalkilikal members said they will continue with the agitation and will also legally oppose the project. "The CPM has supported farmers' movements nationally but some leaders here support the real estate mafia instead of farmers," said  , an activist at the forefront of agitation. 
 
 "We are not against development but the reclamation of paddy fields will block water resources and make life miserable for people," he added.
 
 
