CHENNAI: Tangedco chairman Vikram Kapur, accompanied by senior officials, visited a few sub-stations in the city on Wednesday as part of steps to ensure quality power supply in summer. The team also went through the complaint books. But residents remain wary as unannounced power cuts and voltage fluctuation continue. 

 The team visited the Taramani, Velachery and Ottiyampakkam sub-stations and inspected transformers and feeder lines, but did not meet residents. Residents of some parts of Velachery, Ekkattuthangal and   have been suffering unannounced power cuts. 
 
 Jayant, a resident of Vijay Nagar in Velachery, said, “There have been power outages almost every day. It goes and comes back in 15 minutes. We are informed prior to the announced power outages that last longer”. He added that the visit by the chairman seemed to be a hushed affair. 
 
 “Sometimes the power supply snaps at 2 am and it becomes impossible to sleep. One day it was restored in five minutes and the next day it happened only after an hour,” said Manish, who lives near the Velachery MRTS station. He added that power outages are sometimes attributed to the bridge work at Vijay Nagar junction.
 
 Residents of   and Nandanam are irked by the frequent voltage fluctuations. A resident of   in Ekkatuthangal said the area has frequent voltage fluctuations and have power cuts during the day. Ramesh, a resident of Nandanam, said “the TNEB complaint numbers and CUG numbers either do not work or the calls are simply ignored. Eventually, we end up calling the assistant engineers. They give some technical reason.”
 
 Kapur and senior Tangedco officials directed the officials and workers in the sub-stations to promptly respond to complaints from consumers.
 
 At Taramani, the chairman watched the fuse call official attending to a complaint. “He listened to the complaint from the consumer and waited to know what action the official takes next and the time taken,” said an official at the sub-station.
 
 Earlier at the TNEB headquarters, directors and other senior officials met Tangedco officials region wise and advised them to check transformers and distribution lines.
 
 Unscheduled power cuts happen during summer due to the heavy load. “We are monitoring 24X7 about the load based on the demand at each sub-station. But suddenly there may be a heavy load in an area that may lead to tripping of the distribution line. Our workers find the spot and carry out repairs,” said the official. Such problems will take some time and till then we have to discontinue supply to prevent electrocution of the workers, the official said.
 
 
