Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced a drug peddler to 10 years rigorous imprisonment after finding him guilty in trafficking 2kg charas (cannabis). The special court judge, Virinder Aggarwal, also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the convict, and in default of payment of fine, he would have to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a year. 

 On October 5, 2016, railway police station had booked the accused Lal Babu Shah alias Langar of Vinod Matti Hania village in Gopal Ganj of Bihar under Section 20/61/85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, after he was found in possession of 2kg charas. As per prosecution, on October 5, 2016, sub-inspector Balbir Singh, investigating officer (IO), and other police officials were present at platform No.2/3 of Ludhiana railway station on the Dhandari Kalan side, and were carrying out checking of rogue elements and suspects.
 
 During checking, one polio-infected person holding a stick was seen coming from the Laddowal side, carrying a backpack. Seing the police party, he tried to turn back. On suspicion, he was apprehended by the IO with the help of the police party, and he was enquired about his name and address. The IO conveyed to him about his suspicion that he was carrying an intoxicant in the backpack, and was ordered to be searched. Police found 2kg charas in the backpack, after which he was arrested. It later produced a challan against the accused in the court of law. During the trial, the accused pleaded not guilty, and alleged he was being falsely implicated, as he was caught travelling without a ticket.
 
 Additional public prosecutor for the state, SS Haidar — countering allegations by the accused that he was being falsely implicated — said it was not possible to plant such a huge quantity of charas against the accused, and pleaded for strict punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution witnesses and chemical examination of the recovered consignment. The court, after taking the evidence on record, convicted the accused.
 
 
