AHMEDABAD: The friendship between   and his  ,  , was apparent when they interacted with   of Prantij taluka in Sabarkantha at the  . Both leaders batted for use of scientific methods to increase farmers’ income.

 Modi, Netanyahu and his wife, Sara Netanyahu, also visited the nursery at Vadrad centre before meeting farmers.
 
 In his speech, Netanyahu started by thanking Modi in Hindi. “Dhanyavaad mere pyaare dost” (thanks my dear friend),” Netanyahu said. Both leaders stressed the use of modern technology which can also strengthen Indo-Israel relationship benefiting farmers of India.
 
 
  
 “We come from a land which was a desert,” the Israeli PM said. “We were farmers at the time of the Bibles. We raised dates, weeds, olives but the land lay barren. We started scientific agriculture and saw our yields increase and water usage go down. We saw crop survival and it survived much longer in storage,” Netanyahu said.
 
 He further said that they had implemented the programme called, Mashav, in many countries but its biggest use was being made here in India. 
 
 “We have 20 such centres of excellence and soon we will have 30 such centres,” said the PM of Israel. 
 
 “We want India to help itself because India has vision. India has a leader who understands that knowledge is the future. Knowledge with purpose - this is the policy of Narendra Modi. This is my policy too. We can do a lot together,” Netanyahu said.
 
 Mashav is the Hebrew acronym for Israel's agency for International Development Cooperation which was established as a division of its Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was started to focus on grassroots-level human capacity building at a time when Israel itself was still a developing country. Mashav has been developed as an extensive programme of cooperation throughout the developing world with the aim of ensuring social, economic and environmental sustainable development.
 
 Modi also acknowledged that transformation of agriculture had taken place in Israel through scientific technology. 
 
 “Israel shows the way on how to transform a nation with the agriculture sector at the core. It is important to use latest technology when it comes to agriculture. Farmers gain immensely from use of technology,” Modi said. He further said that India is working to double farmers’ incomes by 2022.
 
 “For this, optimum utilisation of land resources, minimum wastage and understanding the needs of the market become important. It is important to devote attention to irrigation and innovative methods of farming in which special focus is on organic farming,” Modi said. 
 
 He stressed that if India can go further with Israeli technology, we can also be prosperous. “Our Kutchi Patels are the enterprising community. They can do any experiment. I believe that transformation in the farm sector through technology will definitely happen,” Modi said.
 
 
