PANAJI: Goa seems to be fighting a lone battle with its two bigger neighbours,   and  , which are on a quest to set up projects to harness water from the  , not only for drinking but also for other uses.

 The feeling being at a disadvantage is reflected in Goa’s submissions before the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal. The state government recently submitted a 530-page summary in the ongoing case.
 
 “Goa has been at the mercy of its two larger and powerful neighbours, Maharashtra to the north and Karnataka to the east and the south,” the summary explains.
 
 Most of Goa’s major rivers Tiracol, Chapora, Mandovi, Surla, Ragda, Khandepar, Valvonti, Zuari and   originate just across Goa’s border with either Maharashtra or Karnataka.
 
 “For this reason, Goa is an extremely vulnerable state when its neighbours draw ambitious plans to create large storages or divert waters close to the sources of rivers flowing into the state,” the government counsel has stated.
 
 Perhaps the clout the bigger neighbours enjoy politically, though not mentioned in the summary, is also best explained by the fact that Goa has only three members of   while Karnataka has 28 and Maharashtra, 48.
 
 Goa has pointed out that by raising a bogey of dire requirement of water in its letter dated April 16, 2002, Karnataka sought a trans-basin diversion of 7.56TMC of water from the Mhadei basin. It has further stated that the Union ministry of water resources, without consulting the state or taking cognisance of its earlier objections, accorded a ‘in-principle clearance’ to Karnataka on April 30, 2002. No study of water resources was conducted by Karnataka nor did the ministry consider a single point of the dispute.
 
 “It is clear this was an attempt to thwart Goa’s case and make it a “fait accompli” before the state could seek a just decision by adjudication,” the counsel has stated.
 
 The then CM immediately took up the matter with the then PM, leading to the Centre keeping the “illegally and unauthorisedly” granted ‘in-principle clearance’ in abeyance. Goa approached the   with a plea to set up the tribunal. The apex court, passed an order on April 30, 2008, restraining Karnataka from utilising or diverting the water.
 
 
