Visakhapatnam: The city will be better prepared to tackle the   shortage this summer with the Purushothapatnam   Irrigation Project (PLIS) on the Godavari all set to pump water to the Yeleru reservoir - the major water source for households and industries.

 Water pumping from the project into Yeleru reservoir is likely to begin around April 15-20 when there will be no need to supply water from the Godavari to the Rabi crops. Two pipelines, each 13.2 km in length, have been laid for the purpose. Work on one pipeline is already over and the other pipeline is expected to be built by this month-end.
 
 According to a senior GVMC official, the water levels in Yeleru reservoir, which is the major thirst quencher of industries as well as households in Vizag city, may reach its dead storage around the same time in April (April 15-20). 
 
 “The water will flow due to gravity till 50.2 km of the project. From there, the water will be supplied through the two pipelines. Each pipeline can bring in 700 cusecs of water into the Yeleru reservoir, totalling to 1,400 cusecs a day. However, the pumping might start with 500-600 cusecs of water a day in April. This will do away with the need of pumping water from the Yeleru reservoir from dead storage. Seven pumpsets were already installed at the Godavari and work on another pumpset is about to be finished in the next few days,” he said.
 
 GVMC officials are forced to pump water from the Yeleru reservoir into the Yeleru canal once the water levels in the reservoir dip below the 71.5 metres range or the dead storage during the summer months. Otherwise, the water flows by gravity itself into the Yeleru canal and thereby to Vizag.
 
 Despite the GVMC trying every trick in the book to combat the water crisis, it was a common occurrence in the city for many residents to receive water on an alternative day basis during the summer months. Several industries were operating at reduced capacity due to the   of water. 
 
 Water levels in Yeleru reservoir had not reached its fullest level within the recent years. In all, as part of the PLIS, about ten pumpsets, each having a capacity of 350 cusecs, would come up on the Godavari to divert about 3,500 cusecs to the Polavaram left canal and thereafter Yeleru reservoir and Visakhapatnam.
 
 
