Tirunelveli: Claiming that he was attacked with a machete by a usurer, a man with bleeding injury on his hand came to the district collectorate on Monday to petition the collector on the issue. However, in the absence of the collector, the victim S Arumugam petitioned the district revenue officer (DRO) P Muthuramalingam seeking stringent action against the usurer. In his petition, Arumugam, of Kunnaththur in Tirunelveli Town area, said he had borrowed Rs 50,000 from one T Maridurai and his wife Mariammal of the same area. He claimed that he had repaid Rs 1.50 lakh as interest but the couple had reportedly demanded the principle amount with more interest in one payment. Arumugam said that after he lodged a police complaint, he was given one year’s time to repay the money.  “But on Monday (March 5) morning Maridurai and Mariammal came to my house, verbally abused me and asked me to repay the loan immediately,” Arumugam said. “My daughter intervened and they attacked her with a machete. I tried to save her and suffered a cut in my hand,” he said and feared that the police would not act against the couple as they have a political connection. Since he lost faith in the police, Arumugam said he had come to petition the collector to demand justice and seeking stringent action against the moneylender. In another incident, Shankar of Manur submitted a petition seeking protection from three moneylenders who had allegedly created fake documents that he had taken loans from them, though he had never borrowed money from the trio. “They are trying to take away the properties that are in the name of my wife and mother-in-law. Police should conduct proper inquiry and take action against those cheats,” he added. Meanwhile, Muthukutti, a farmer from Ravanasamudhram village alleged that two antisocial elements of the village were targeting women who are alone at home during the day. He alleged that they threatened women at knifepoint and sexually abused them. He claimed that they also captured obscene images of the women and threatened the victims. He wanted the district administration to instruct the police to take stringent action against the duo.