NEW DELHI: A vastly improved player since the last Commonwealth Games in 2014, when she won bronze in Glasgow, the queen of Indian badminton   heads into this year’s Gold Coast CWG as one of the favourites to reach the podium again — but this time with the colour being gold.

 
 
 
 Currently ranked third in the BWF ratings for women’s singles, Sindhu is the biggest bet from India’s CWG contingent given her status and performances over the past two years. Despite news on Tuesday that Sindhu had suffered a sprain in her right ankle while practicing at the P Gopichand Academy in Hyderabad, there is no immediate threat to her participation in the Gold Coast Games.
 
 
 
 Sindhu’s rise to worldwide fame came in 2016, when she won a landmark silver medal at the Rio Olympics - the biggest prize in the history of Indian badminton, surpassing Saina Nehwal’s bronze in London. Following the surprise exit of Saina in her second match in Rio, it had fallen upon Sindhu to carry the hopes of Indian badminton at the Olympics. In her first Games, Sindhu played some incredible badminton to become the first Indian in an Olympics badminton final. 
 
  
  
 
 On the biggest day of her career, Sindhu faced the daunting   and never stopped fighting until the Spanish champion won gold. And yet it did not feel like Sindhu had lost, for in her hands was an Olympic silver medal. For her achievements in 2016, Sindhu was crowned Sportsperson of the Year and Badminton Player of the Year at the Mahindra Scorpio Times of India Awards (TOISA). 
 
 
  
  
 
 Sindhu’s success in 2017 earned her another TOISA award at the event in February this year. In 2017, the 22-year-old claimed her first Superseries win when she beat Olympic champion Carolina Marin 21-19, 21-16 to win the India Open for the first time. Days later, she rose to a career-high No 2 in the BWF women’s singles rankings. After claiming a silver medal at the World Championships, only India’s second ever, Sindhu went on to win her second Superseries in October when she became the first Indian to win the Korea Open. Her other title was the Syed Modi International Grand Prix Gold. Other close finishes came in the final of the National Championship and the Hong Kong Superseries, where she was runner-up both times.
 
