Vadodara: A day after they were booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of construction contractor Alpesh Thakkar, all the 12 persons including some prominent builders have gone into hiding.  On Sunday, police teams visited residences and offices of the accused named in the FIR to investigate the death of Thakkar who had ended his life in his car near Meldi Mata Temple in Gokulpura village of Vadodara taluka on April 16. “We wanted to record their statements and inquire about the case as their names have been mentioned in the FIR. But none of the accused was available. They have gone into hiding,” said BD Jadeja, police sub-inspector, Vadodara taluka. “We will continue looking for the accused and if they don’t turn up for the questioning, we will take further course of action,” he added. According to the FIR filed by Alpesh’s wife, Hina, the list of alleged debtors includes Ramesh Patel of Kasata Hometech India Pvt Ltd (Rs 4.4 crore), Deepak Ambani of Ambani Builders Pvt Ltd (Rs 53.62 lakh), Bharat Agrawal of D R Agrawal for Vadodara Municipal Corporation works (Rs 14.64 lakh), Hitesh Shah of Aquafil Polymers who had stopped payments of cheques amounting to Rs 15 lakh, Shapoorji Pallonji and Co,. Ltd for work at the Sterling SEZ at Jambusar (Rs 21.32 lakh) as well as work and material for polytechnic college of Cube Construction director Nilesh Gandhi. According to Hina, her husband was also owed money by Dilip Tambadiya of Akshar Group, Nimit Sanghani and Parag of NRS Group and Ketan and Kamlesh of Akshar Public School. Hina said that Alpesh was in the construction business for the last 11 years and he had worked on projects of a series of prominent realtors in the city as well as some projects at other places. Hina has mentioned in her complaint that Alpesh had told her on several occasions that builders owed him money. Also, Alpesh had taken a loan from one Dilipsinh Chauhan who had come to his house a couple of months back and threatened him. Chauhan also took away Alpesh’s new Volkswagen Ameo car on that day. The debtors owed him Rs 6.5 crore. Alpesh and Hina had consumed poison in their car. Hina, who was still conscious, had called a relative who rushed to their aid along with others. The couple was rushed to a private hospital but Alpesh could not survive