VADODARA: M S University on Friday formed a new body titled “SIR” which will try and resolve problems faced by students. 

 The students issue redressal (SIR) was formed during the special syndicate meeting on Friday when a discussion related to repeated instances of students entering into confrontation with the university authorities and vigilance staffers cropped up. 
 
 According to the syndicate members, to begin with SIR will meet and hear representations from students on two Fridays of every month. 
 
 If members of this body fail to resolve the problems faced by the students fraternity, such issues will be taken up by the members themselves in the syndicate body for discussions and policy decisions. 
 
 On Friday, three syndicate members including Dinesh Yadav, Satyen Kulabkar and   were made members of SIR which may accommodate other members in future. 
 
 “Problems related to infrastructure, exams or other policies can be addressed through this new system,” said a syndicate member. 
 
 In another decision, the university’s syndicate body has also directed Faculty of Science to declare Brijesh Brahmbhatt as faculty general secretary (FGS) of the faculty level students association - elections of which had concluded in October last. 
 
 Interestingly, even as Brahmbhatt had got elected as FGS, the faculty had decided to cancel his candidature based on a probe panel’s report which it had appointed to inquire into violence that had broken out in the faculty ahead of the polls. 
 
 In another significant decision, the syndicate members have cleared two proposed amendments to the existing statutes of the university whereby temporary staffers of Faculty of Medicine will not get the right to contest and vote in elections for statutory bodies of the university in future. 
 
 At the same time, those members from Faculty of Medicine who are transferred by   government will be able to retain their statutory positions on bodies like university’s senate and syndicate. 
 
 The amendments to the existing statutes although cleared by the syndicate, will require a nod from university’s highest body – the senate – which will have its annual meeting on March 26. If the amendments get nod from senate, they will have to be rectified by Gujarat government as well. 
 
 During their meet, the members have also appointed  , head of Department of Mechanical Engineering from Faculty of Technology and Engineering as director of   Startup and Entrepreneurship Cell. 
 
 
