NEW DELHI: The Centre and   launched the Clean   for Delhi campaign on Saturday with an aim to bring down the air quality index (AQI) from “very poor” to “moderate” range within the next 15 days. However, experts questioned the timing of the campaign because meteorological conditions are favouring dispersal of pollutants. There is also forecast for rain and thunderstorms on Monday and Tuesday.

 Last February, 2 days were in “moderate” category, 22 in “poor” and 4 in “very poor” category, as per Central Pollution Control Board data of monthly AQI. Environment secretary, CK Mishra, said the target of the campaign will be to bring down AQI below 200. The AQI on Saturday was 320. He added that the campaign will be stretched to the entire year if it’s found to be effective.
 
 “This is not the worst air quality time for Delhi. They could have launched it in November or October end when there were smog episodes, and AQI was in hazardous category and people really suffered,” an air quality scientist said on condition of anonymity.
 
 Union environment minister, Harsh Vardhan and Delhi CM, Arvind Kejriwal together launched the   and a mobile app that will help citizens get involved in the campaign. Kejriwal said his government was trying to procure machines internationally that will help identify major sources of air pollution in the capital on a daily basis. He said that air pollution is being understood on the basis of the IIT Kanpur’s source apportionment study released in 2015, but “air pollution is a dynamic problem. The sources of pollution change with the season and we need a year-round study to analyse these sources. The environment department will commission such a study.”
 
 Kejriwal said these new initiatives to tackle air pollution will be factored in the Delhi budget. “Centre and Delhi government have come together to tackle air pollution. This is a political message. We should work together to rise above politics…the 15-day campaign is not a permanent solution.” 
 
 “I hope that the Centre will involve all concerned ministries to tackle the air pollution problem. Our cabinet can also sit with them and come up with a source wise plan if they decide to work together. As of now this is just a piecemeal approach,” he added.
 
 Vardhan, while flagging off 70 joint teams of officials of union environment ministry, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Delhi Government,   Control Committee (DPCC), municipal corporations and  , said the “Clean Air” campaign was not a symbolic effort and that it will be panned out across the country. “The reason we started with Delhi is because its pollution problem is much talked about,” he said. The teams will monitor causes of pollution and initiate remedial measures and take penal action against serious polluters on the spot.
 
 The environment ministry in a statement said besides field visits by the teams, there will be a series of seminars — workshops on air pollution and health; a mini marathon for clean air; launching a national digital forum for discussions on air pollution; Indoor Air Pollution Management, a conference of environment ministers of states and UTs. A control room has been set up in CPCB to monitor the daily progress of the campaign.
 
 
