The reappointment of bureaucrat Radheshyam Mopalwar on the same post has shocked the bureaucracy. He retired on February 28 as the vice-chairman and managing director of the   (MSRDC) and a fresh order was issued on his reappointment on a contractual basis the same day.

 Mopalwar, a 1995-batch IAS officer, was locked in some controversies for more than a decade. During the monsoon session of the state legislature, former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, leader of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, NCP leader Ajit Pawar and BJP legislator   had levelled serious charges of corruption against him.
 Chavan and Gote had submitted an audio tape to assembly Speaker Haribhau Bagde. The tape reportedly contained a conversation between Mopalwar and another person on payment of bribes.
 
 Since it was a serious charge, chief minisiter   sent him on leave and simultaneously appointed a three-member committee headed by former chief secretary Johny Joseph to probe into the charges of graft against Mopalwar. Joseph completed the entire probe in record time and granted a clean chit to Mopalwar. It was expected that in view of serious charges of corruption, Fadnavis would shift him to an insignificant department and his colleagues believed that it was the end of Mopalwar’s career. But Mopalwar has proved them wrong as Fadnavis has reinstated him on the same post.
 
 On February 28, when Mopalwar retired, it was again felt that a new bureaucrat would take over the reins, but much to everyone’s surprise and shock, the public works department issued a fresh order to provide for his reappointment as MSRDC head.
 
 “I was not surprised at all. On the day Fadnavis ordered a probe, it was well known in Mantralaya that he (Mopalwar) would be given a clean chit and he would be back in the MSRDC,” Chavan said.
 
 In the corridors of power, it is believed that while he is at the receiving end in view of corruption charges, Mopalwar is among a few bureaucrats, who has the capacity to deliver in a time-bound period. For Fadnavis, the biggest task is to complete the Rs 42,000 crore Nagpur-Mumbai Expressway as early as possible and “only Mopalwar can do it”.
 
 Ever since Fadnavis took over the reins in October 2014, it appears that he is alone to take on the opposition. Serious charges of corruption and irregularities were made against several cabinet members, including tribal development minister  , food and civil supplies minister  , tourism minister Jaikumar Rawal, woman and child welfare minister Pankaja Munde and housing minister Prakash Mehta, but Fadnavis defended his colleagues and gave them a clean chit. Even during the three-day ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ conference, it was “oneman show”. While the preparations for the event began six months ago, Fadnavis singlehandedly drafted an action plan, invited Prime Minister   for the inauguration and prepared a plan for signing of the MoUs. Most of the cabinet members and senior bureaucrats associated with the event were not visible. “Even the dais plan for all the events was drafted by the chief minister himself,” said a senior bureaucrat.
 
 A week ago when Fadnavis was locked in a row over a video on river conservation, no minister came to his rescue. It was an event organized by an NGO and the government was not even remotely associated with it. Ultimately, as most ministers distanced themselves from the event, Fadnavis stepped in to defend himself, but then it was too late, as a result, massive damage was done to the image of CM and his government.
 
