CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh: The UT   corporation’s decision to double the   has only brought uneasiness among the city residents as a lot of residents were seen saying that the hike in parking rates was against the wishes of the elected representatives and general public.

 Meanwhile, what is more interesting is the fact that the move has been made at a time when the private firm that is managing all the city’s parking lots, has failed to fulfill its contractual obligations. 
 
 The firm that was hired to run the city parking lots was told to implement smart parking solutions. It was alleged that even after three months of increase in parking rates, the firm has failed to do so.
 
 “Overcrowding and haphazard parking is a common spectacle at all the parking lots in the city. We are demanding that the new rates should not be raised untill the firm implements smart parking solutions and improves its management,” said city residents.
 
 Under the smart parking project, ticketing was to be done with electronic machines, which could enable the authorities to monitor real-time scenario. The firm is issuing electronic tickets, but the mechanism for real-time monitoring is yet to be put in place. 
 
 Not only this, the firm is yet to develop a mobile application that will enable commuters to locate and book parking lots. The firm is yet to install boom barriers on entry and exit of all the parking lots.
 
 Cones and chains for proper parking of scooters and cars are not in place. As per the contract, the firm has to earmark separate spaces for handicapped persons and women, but this is nowhere to be seen.
 
 Residents have also complained of overcharging and misbehaviour by parking staff. On March 14, three Sector 20 residents, including two women, were assaulted by parking attendants in Sector 22.
 
 “The   should have waited till the conditions mentioned in contract were fulfilled. It seems they are interested in welfare of the firm rather than residents,” said social activist R K Garg.
 
 
