LUDHIANA: Despite diesel autorickshaws being banned within the city, they continue to ply on the roads. Most of the diesel three-wheelers — which are targetted by environmentalists — run in industrial areas. They emit black smoke and cause immense pollution.

 Diesel autorickshaws were banned way back in July 2009, after the Punjab and Haryana high court ordered a ban on issuing permits to three-wheelers within the city limits of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and Amritsar. The order states: “Pending further orders from this court, the issue of permits to autorickshaws and public transport buses (city buses) run on diesel within the municipal corporation limit of three cities mentioned above (Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and Amritsar) shall remain stayed. This order will not prevent state transport authorities in Punjab from issuing permits to autorickshaws running on LPG or CNG. Autorickshaws that run on any other non-polluting fuel can also be permitted.”
 
 Yet, there is no check on the entry of autorickshaws despite the ban. Autorickshaw drivers played around the high court oder by getting permits from nearby cities, and later plying them within the city limits. The traffic police very well know this ground reality, but take no action against these drivers. The three-wheelers run in major areas of the city, not only causing pollution but also long traffic jams. Some of the cities have imposed a complete ban on diesel-run autorickshaws. But in Ludhiana, they can be seen outside the railway station, Field Ganj, and around Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), causing major problems to patients.
 
 Talking about the pollution caused by these autorickshaws,   (42), a resident of Division No.3, said: “I have a breathing problem. Going out without covering my nose is a big problem for me. There is so much pollution on the roads. These autorickshaws emit black gas which directly effects our lungs. Keeping in view the health of people, these vehicles should be completely banned.”
 
 People blame the government for not providing sufficient and regular public transport facility. “This completely shows the failure of our government to provide us with some other means of public transport. People who do not have smartphones and are not literate enough to book cabs for themselves, have no other option other than travelling in autorickshaws. Due to the absence of sufficient public transport in the city, one has to hire autorickshaws that cause pollution and spoil our environment” said   (48), a resident of Shastri Nagar. Kulwinder’s daughter said: “The city bus service — which is the only public transport available in the city — does not ply on some major routes. They have no fixed time, and for half the time of the day, they do not operate.”
 
 People are now questioning the government and asking them to fulfil their duties. “We have a proper body for each and every issue. If these officials can’t work for the benefit of people, they should resign and give their seat to a deserving candidate. It’s time for the government and administration to stop vehicles like autorickshaws, which emit harmful gases, from plying on the roads, and provide residents with an efficient public transport system,” said   (51), a resident of Sarabha Nagar.
 
 
