KOLKATA: It’s a tale of two water sources at   — A KMC-piped water tap at D Block and a tubewell at J Block. During the diarrhoea outbreak, the civic body had advised residents not to use water — contaminated with coliform bacteria — from both the sources. After necessary repair works,   declared the D Block tap as safe but the tubewell continued to remain “condemned” on paper.

 During a visit to the area on Tuesday, TOI, however, found a different usage pattern. Shaken by the goings-on over the past few weeks, the residents have shunned the KMC tap — inspite of an assurance from the civic body — and relying more on the tubewell.
 
 
  
 Rekha Dhar, a Daspara (at J Block) resident, for example, has reposed her faith on the “good old” tubewell. “I have depended on the tubewell for the last 20 years. In fact, this tubewell was the only source of drinking water and would cater to over 300 people till 2015, when KMC started supplying piped water from   water treatment plant. How can the civic body declare the water unsafe and direct us not to drink the water? We are drawing water from the tubewell even after the prohibition and would continue to do so,” she said.
 
 If Dhar was emotional, her neighbour Pralay Talukdar had a reason to share. According to him, a section of people are still using the tubewell out of desperation as the KMC-supplied water is insufficient for a growing population at J Block.
 
 The situation at D Block is just the reverse. The civic engineers had replaced the pipeline immediately after testing the water. Fresh water samples were then taken and after laboratory tests, it was found fit for consumption. However, the locals are still so scared that they are not yet convinced by the civic assurance. “We dare not use tap water. We are still depending on packaged drinking water. We don’t know how long will we be able to stay away from piped water but we don’t want a rerun of the outbreak,” said Arun  , a resident of D Block. 
 
 Ganguli and 10 others living in a three-storeyed building fell ill after consuming the tap water a few days back. Two of them were admitted to a nursing home in a critical condition. Rita Bardhan, another resident of D Block, urged the civic body to supply tank water to the affected areas. 
 
 KMC water supply department officials, however, dismissed all such fears. “The tap water is now absolutely fit for consumption,” said a KMC official. The official, however, expressed surprise over the dependence on the tubewell, which they are planning to shut down. 
 
 
