MUMBAI: The economic offences wing of the city police on Monday filed a chargesheet against builder  , his two sons Deepesh and Mukesh for duping 446 buyers who had booked flats in their Mira Road project, Riyo.

 The chargesheet says the buyers have collectively lost Rs 51 crore. In all, 2,588 people are yet to get flats in the builder’s projects including Sapphire in Dahisar, Serenity in Powai and   in Kanjurmarg. Police said a separate chargesheet will be submitted against the accused in these projects.
 
 Interestingly, the land on which   claimed to be constructing the Mira Road flats belonged to the state government. While Deepesh who was arrested in January is lodged in Arthur Road jail, his brother Mukesh and father Laxman are on the run and believed to be in Dubai. The police filed the chargesheet against the accused for cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy besides sections of Maharashta Ownership of Flats Act (MOFA). Deepesh was arrested in January after the Bombay high court cancelled the interim protection granted to him in August 2017.
 
 In its 1,200 pages chargesheet, the police said that the three directors—namely Deepesh, Mukesh and Laxman—allegedly connived with each other since 2011, started a construction company, JVPD Properties and started the Riyo project and accepted bookings from around 46 investors and flat buyers by collecting amounts ranging between Rs 10 to Rs 20 lakh. The company then set up  , JVPD properties, Phantasy Homes and GJ Investment Pvt Ltd.
 
 Investigating officer Pravin Bhagat said that the number of victims could rise and total amount involved in the crime could be around Rs 51 crore. “In the Mira Road project, the accused distributed pamphlets for sale of flats, took bookings from various persons by putting up construction sign boards,” said an officer. 
 
 There are around 100 witnesses cited in the Bhagtani-Rio projects. “Besides this. the police have frozen several bank accounts belonging to Bhagtanis. We have also alerted the Enforcement Directorate as he is believed to be into money-laundering,” the officer added.
 
 
