Mohali: Abandoned   are becoming hideouts of miscreants and   in Mohali, prompting deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra to write a letter to SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal to conduct regular checks at such sites marred with wild growth.

 There are around 52 abandoned tubewells in the district falling under the jurisdiction of municipal corporation, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada), public health department and Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation.
 
 Sapra said she had sent the letter keeping in mind the security of residents. The DC said she discovered illegal activity being carried out at an abandoned tubewell in Industrial Area while returning from a function at night a few days back. She said she spotted five to six men inside the tubewell. When she asked her security officers to check the tubewell, all of them fled. The officers informed the DC that the men seemed to be drug addicts.
 
 Sapra said, “I will also ask Gmada, MC and public health department to check tubewells falling under their jurisdiction and seal them so that they may not be misused by miscreants.”
 
 One of the tubewell operators told TOI, “We are scared to lodge complaints against people misusing abandoned tubewells. Illegal activities are being undertaken there.”
 
 In March, the local administration had taken an initiative to involve volunteers to constitute a team of drug abuse prevention officers in the district to check and curb the drug menace. The district level mission team had been constituted under the chairmanship of deputy commissioner. Around 100 volunteers had pledged to join the team.
 
 Sapra said, “In cities, these would be formed at ward levels. Sub-divisional magistrates would be chairpersons of sub-division level mission teams. All prevention officers would be properly trained so that they contribute in eradicating drug abuse from the district. Any person above the age of 18 years, not having any case registered against him or her, is not a drug addict, can become a preventive officer.
 
 In Punjab, the programme was launched ‪by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh at Khatkar Kalan on March 23, the martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh.
 
 Residents’ security
 
 Around 52 abandoned tubewells in Mohali district
 
 DC says she found illegal activity being carried out at an abandoned tubewell in Industrial Area a few days back
 
 DC says she has written the letter to SSP keeping in mind security of residents
 
 
