CHENNAI: From setting up cradles in hospitals for abandoned babies to monitoring infants at home, Tamil Nadu’s efforts to save its girl children have paid off: The state bridged the gender gap in under-five   in 2016, shows the latest report released by the Registrar General of India.

 According to the sample registration system bulletin, the overall mortality rate of children below five years in   came down from 20 per 1,000 live births in 2015 to 19 per 1,000 live births in 2016, reflecting the decline nationally. 
 
 In 2015, there were 43 deaths per 1,000 live births in the country. This was brought down to 39 in the succeeding year. 
 
 
  
 
 In addition to the decline in child mortality, another laurel for Tamil Nadu – which has for long prided itself over its maternal and child health indices – has been bridging the gender gap between boys and girls. 
 
 In 2011, there was a four-point difference between the mortality rates among boys and girls. 
 
 In 2014, the scale tilted in favour of girls. However, the state lost its momentum and the scale swung back in favour of boys in 2015.
 
 Director of public health K   said the reduction in the gender gap is a process that began a decade ago. “We have managed to bridge it through a combination of initiatives by the health, social welfare and education departments that have together tried to empower women and girls,” he said.
 
 Although the 2016 report was encouraging for public health officials in the state, some numbers remain a cause of concern – 71.7% of infant deaths continue to happen at the neo-natal stage, with 53% happening in less than seven days.
 
 There was also a chasm between the number of children saved in rural and urban areas. While the under-five mortality rate stood at 15 in urban areas, it was 23 in rural areas. 
 
 J  , expert advisor to the state government on child health under the  , said officials are striving to bridge the gap. 
 
 The state has come out with a slew of initiatives in the last four years, including setting up a network to track mothers and their infants through the facilities under the health and social welfare departments. “They have also introduced home-based care in various tribal areas,” she said. 
 
 
