MUMBAI: The state government’s ambitious project of setting up an integrated computerized system for university functions will cover the entire   of students—from admission to graduation. 

 A student’s enrolment, tests, assignments, library, hostel, eligibility, results, marksheets and degree certificates will be available on a single platform. The   (IUMS), as it is called, is likely to go live for all state non-agricultural   from the 2019 session, but in phases. All external agencies such as MKCL and MeritTrac in   will be eventually phased out.
 
 A senior government official said they will meet all stakeholders from 14 universities to understand their requirements. “We will prepare the system requirement specifications (SRS) based on what universities and colleges need. Core groups will be formed in every university to help government committees understand the diverse processes. It is a gargantuan task. There are a lot of complexities, but we want to provide solutions that will capture all the complexities. We want to offer end-to-end solutions to students,” said the official.
 
 Two government committees have been formed—one headed by additional chief secretary (higher and technical education) Sitaram Kunte and a technical committee headed by principal secretary (IT) S V R Srinivas. “Once the software is developed, a user acceptance test will be conducted before going live. All current data will have to be migrated to IUMS. We will be demonstrating the system to all stakeholders. Security audits will be done to ensure the data is secured,” said a senior government official.
 
 Not just students, the university’s academic and administrative activities will also go digital. Activities of board of studies, setting of syllabi and introduction of courses will go online. Each stakeholder will have its own log-in and password. The state government has allotted a lumpsum provision of Rs 39 crore for the next five years and an outlay of Rs 18 crore is proposed for 2018-19. The project also got the Chancellor’s approval in the recent Joint Board of Vice-Chancellors’ meeting.
 
 Though the government is confident of launching it in less than a year for all universities, principals are sceptical about the migration. “There is no uniformity in the way different processes are carried out in colleges. Barring a few, not many have automated systems in place. An overhaul of this scale requires changes at the ground level. Bringing universities’ functions on one platform itself is a mammoth task, colleges will be a different ballgame,” said a principal. Another said IUMS are successful abroad, however, they are either independent smaller entities or have fewer affiliated colleges.
 
 
