JAIPUR: The regional office of   has been told to derecognise its affiliated schools which have flouted Rajasthan Private   Act. Following the meeting between the education minister   and regional CBSE office over the exuberant fees hike by some private schools, the latter has asked the minister to provide them the list of errant schools for action.

 Devnani, in a press conference held in Jaipur on Wednesday, urged the parents to come forward with their complaints on fees hike. Since,   has decided to start a statewide campaign against the fees hike, the   has swung into action by directing the district education officers to serve show cause notices to schools which has hiked fees more than 15%
 
 Devnani said, “State grants ‘No Objection Certificate’ schools running under its jurisdiction while CBSE awards affiliation and recognition to schools. My meeting with the CBSE officials was intended to explore how both the competent bodies can regulate the fees.”
 
 The minister said that CBSE officials have informed him that rules allow them to axe the affiliation of schools in case state found guilty of violating any rule.
 
 “The CBSE officials have cleared that they will not hesitate in dropping the recognition of schools who have hiked fees not in tune with the fees act of Rajasthan. Soon, I will send the list of errant schools,” said Devnani.
 
 Responding to a question on number of complaints department has received? He said, "I have received one complaint against a school and action has been taken against it," said Devnani.
 
 The minister reiterated that they have zero tolerance for schools which have hiked the fees in unjust manner. He also pointed that schools which has disregarded it’s order preventing schools to sell books, uniforms, shoes and stationary items.
 
 "We made the rule that every school has to recommend three shops a month in advance to parents for purchasing books and uniforms. The district education officers have been asked to collect information on such schools who have not followed the rule,” said Devnani.
 
 Commenting on the Congress protest against the fee hike, Devnani said, “Congress is not aware of fees act. They have woken up only to get political mileage on the issue. The act has provisions wherein schools and parents can challenge the fees at three levels--district, divisional and state level," said Devnani.
 
 
