KOCHI: About 15% girls in   rural have never accessed the internet, said a recent study conducted among 14-18 year-olds in the rural areas of the country. 

 The study was conducted in seven districts with tier-II cities-Ernakulam,  , Mysuru, Amritsar, Madurai, Varanasi and Dehradun. It evaluated the frequency of digital use among the teenagers living in rural areas, among other things, and identified that Ernakulam scored high in access to digital devices, even though girls did not fare as well as boys.
 
 The study, the annual status of education report (rural) 2017, said that 69.8% of the subjects in rural Ernakulam had accessed the internet at least once in the week. The figure was the highest among the 28 districts covered by the study. Mysuru, for instance, recorded just 18.1%.
 
  
  
 
 Within Ernakulam rural, it was identified that boys had more access to the internet when compared to girls . According to the study, 79.0% males had accessed the internet in the week before the survey was conducted, while 61.2% girls had access to the internet during the same time period. 
 
 A similar difference in accessibility was identified in the case of use of mobile phones and computers. While 94.6% and 66% boys have access to mobiles phones and computers respectively, the access among girls was recorded at 89.5% (mobile phones) and 54.7% (computers). 
 
 During the survey, it was identified that girls in rural areas have lesser access to technology in the country when compared to boys. "Girls have far lower access to computer and internet as compared to boys. While 49% boys have never used the internet, close to 76% females fell in that category," said the study. 
 
 Preetha K K from the   said, "The development in Ernakulam is mainly only in the peripheral areas. A lot of the facilities that are available in the urban area are not accessible to the downtrodden communities. In the case of digital access, it is likely that girls coming from downtrodden communities are the ones that are left without digital access. Though   often boasts equal opportunities, studies show otherwise."
 
 A similar discrepancy also appears in other technologically related areas such as using internet banking or even withdrawing money from an ATM. According to the study, it was identified that only 2.2% girls had used internet banking, while 7.9% boys were familiar with net banking. Overall, 10.4% youths from Ernakulam rural have used internet banking. The figure is the second highest among the surveyed districts with Dehradun recording the highest at 10.6%.
 
 In the case of withdrawing money from the ATM, 21.5% boys used an ATM while the number is as low as 9% among girls in the district. 
 
 
