After successfully experimenting with diverse genres, filmmakers and actors seem to have developed a liking for sports-based films. Bollywood has been churning a lot of such films, and looks like Kollywood has joined the fray. In the recent times, the likes of  , and Chennai 600028 II: Second Innings, which had boxing and cricket respectively as its core theme, hit the bull’s eye. Films like Pandigai, which dealt with street boxing, was given a thumbs up by the critics, too. Though several movies which belonged to the genre had released over the years, with many of them making the cash registers ringing, Tamil audiences can enjoy more sports dramas in the coming days, as many such projects are in the pipeline. 

 
 
 PG Muthiah’s Madurai Veeran, which has Shanmugapandian playing the lead role, revolves around jallikattu. According to the director, the film is about how the panchayats of five villages come together to hold jallikattu and how it changes the life of the protagonist, an NRI. The movie, which was initially slated as a Pongal release, will now hit screens in February. Interestingly, a few more films on jallikattu were announced, which include Ameer’s Santhana Devan, starring Arya, and Marina Puratchi, produced by Pandiraj. 
 
 
 There was news about   directing a biopic on Paralympic high jumper  . None other than Shah Rukh Khan surprised one and all last year by presenting the first look of the project on the national hero, who won Gold at the Paralympics held in Rio de Janeiro in 2016. Though who would play the lead role in the bilingual movie wasn’t revealed, the technical crew for the project was announced. However, the film, which was supposed to be a 2017 release, is yet to go on floors. 
 
 
 There was news doing the rounds that   fame   is doing a film with boxing as its theme, set against the backdrop of north Madras. It was also heard that real life boxers were consulted for the same. The latest about the project is that Siddharth and Amala Paul are playing the lead roles in it.
 
 
 
 After the success of  , it was announced that music director-turned-actor Hip Hop Adhi’s next film will be a sports drama. Unlike the former, this yet-to-be-titled project, which will have Adhi essaying the role of a hockey player, has Parthiban Desingu at the helm. Apart from playing the lead, he will also be composing music for the movie which is produced by Sundar C.
 
 
 
 Lyricist-turned-actor   who shot to fame with Kabali, revealed a few months ago that he has plans to wield the megaphone for a project with cricket as its central theme. It was also said that it would be a women-centric movie as it revolves around women’s cricket. Arunraja has earlier said that he would get inputs from cricketers Snehal Pradhan and Devika Palshikar as both of them had promised to help him for the project. The late st about the project was that the movie will also highlight about a father-daughter relation, for which the makers were on a hunt for suitable artistes. 
 
