Urban Bengaluru’s poor voter turnout (estimated to be around 50%) was one of the most widely discussed topics by people, both online and offline. There are two schools of thought that have emerged. The first that calls the non-voter Bengalureans the ones who are fed up with the system and have given up. The other, interestingly, contest this percentage and say that the generic voter turnout must be much higher than what is being shown on social media.  , of Citizens for Bengaluru, says, “Although it is disappointing to know that statistics have marked a remarkably low turnout of voters in Bengaluru on poll day, there is no reason for us to hang our heads in shame, as this could have occurred due to a number of other factors, and not necessarily a lack of interest among urban citizens to cast their vote.”
Brand specialist   says that he is shocked and disappointed to see such low voter turnout in Bengaluru. “We should be at 70% like how the rest of the state votes. I feel that there is a certain degree of urban apathy and cynicism. This is because many people think that their vote does not count. A lot of people think it’s just one vote,” he says, adding, “We don’t believe in the power of tiny drops of water. There is a feeling of being too small in the overall governance and system that falls into place, which is a serious issue. The moment we start thinking like that, we give the power to someone else.”
 However, activist   says, “I do not buy to the thought that the average Bengalurean is apathetic. The number being projected, I feel, is bogus. I feel that the voter list is bloated and faulty. In fact, I have been running a dipstick poll on my social media page, where people intuitively feel there are more people who have voted around them. The awareness was much higher, as were the citizen initiatives. If we are to look at the bigger picture, the fact that around 45 lakh people voted in Bengaluru is a big number to celebrate.” 
 Echoing the same thoughts, Tara adds, “Given the number of awareness and outreach programmes conducted and social media campaigns done in the run-up to the state election, the percentage of voters in the city should have been more by at least 15% this time, compared with the last. But a number of reasons come into play here —namely, significant amount of mistakes on the electoral rolls in various booths, ranging from errors in the names of people; names not being entered on the voters’ list even though the formalities were completed well ahead of April 12; names of people who have shifted homes within the city not being correctly transferred or registered on to the new lists, names of deceased people still not being removed from the list; and a host of similar fallacies. Cleaning up of voters’ rolls and the entire electoral system to ensure that every citizen gets to vote should be the top priority of the election commission and the BBMP, as the figures and trends highlighted by informal surveys done in the city paint a completely different picture.” 
 
