GANDHINAGAR:   Chief Minister   called on the Gujarat families and particularly the young generation settled in other states to maintain their identity and link with the home land and add to its prestige. He exhorted the youth to live up to the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Narmad, Hemachandra Acharya, Morari Bapu and  .

 Inaugurating the Gujarat Government’s initiative titled ‘Sadakal Gujarat’ in other states, beginning with Chhattisgarh at its capital  , he hailed the Gujarati families settled in other states for several generations for having mixed with the permanent residents like sugar dissolves in milk. He described ‘Sadakal Gujarat’ as an effective initiative to uphold ‘Gujarati’ 
 
 Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh was especially present at the function held under the aegis of Gujarat Government’s Non-Resident Gujarati (NRG) in collaboration with the Gujarat community of Chhattisgarh.
 
  Rupani said that Gujarat has risen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for ‘One India, Best India’ beginning a new precedence of Gujarat establishing inter-state cultural and social link with other states, beginning with Chhattisgarh, for mutual benefit and helping one another know better.
 
  He drew a comparison of Chhattisgarh separated from   the way Gujarat was separated from Maharashtra in 1960. Both the state are developing fast with hard work and people’s participation. He recalled that when Gujarat was carved out of Bombay State, several people posed questions how could the semi-arid land of Rann (of Kutch) develop at all.
 
 Referring to the State Government’s biennial flagship event ‘Vibrant Gujarat Summits’ launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was the Chief Minister of the State, Rupani said that nearly 35-lakh people have been employed due to Rs.17-lakh-crore investments during the Summits. Gujarat has the minimum unemployment rate and tops in Startup Projects, Skill Development. People of Gujarat are more ‘job-givers’ rather than ‘job-seekers’. The state government has given 3.5-lakh tablets to college students, and plans to provide jobs to one lakh youth under apprenticeship schemes with stipend.
  
 Rupani invited the people of Chhattigarh to attend the next Vibrant Gujarat Summit-2019 and   during Shivratri
 
 Gujarat’s Minister of State for Non-Resident Gujaratis (NRG)   said the ‘Sadakal Gujarat’ is an initiative to establish link between original Gujaratis living in different Indian States and abroad.
 
 
