KOCHI: Lack of a dedicated   as specified in the   Justice (JJ) Act and deficiency in training in juvenile law are the reasons for the low rate of chargesheeting in cases of kidnapping and abduction, say experts. Chargesheeting rate in kidnapping cases is at 43%, compared to over 80% in other violent crimes.

 Criminologist   said judges, prosecutors, and policemen lack knowledge in juvenile law and there is no special juvenile unit in police. “To change this, the government should have the will power to do what is stated in the JJ Act. There should be budgetary allocation, special recruitment to police, and co-ordination between departments like labour and social justice. There is no point in doing juvenile policing if officers are burdened with regular police work,” he said.
 
 When compared to earlier laws, JJ Act brought in a mechanism that allows any person to produce a child in need of protection before the child welfare committee at any time.
 
 Though it is the greatest protection available to a child in a society, it is not working, said  , former director general of prosecution.
 
 “Not even a single child would lack protection if JJ Act is implemented properly. Unfortunately, child abduction is increasing even after the Act that was brought in. Number of missing children has increased and detection is very low. Conviction is virtually nil. Also, our state doesn’t have child-friendly police. As per the JJ Act, the police department should have a juvenile justice unit. In our state, juvenile-friendly police exists only on paper. Juvenile police stations should be set up in villages,” Asaf Ali said.
 
 Police force in its present form is not equipped to investigate cases involving offences against children, he said. Special training need to be imparted to police officers who are entrusted with duties under JJ Act, Asaf Ali said. It is essential that we have a police that is equipped to investigate cases involving children. Merely designating a police official on paper won’t do,” he said.
 
 As police officers are pressured to detect cases under JJ Act, they often take the shortcut method of targeting those who employ children at homes, instead of going after rackets who use children for begging, said Asaf Ali.
 
 “Children aged 15 or 16 years can be see distributing newspapers in the morning. Can it be called child labour? Law hasn’t clearly defined child labour, said James Vadackumchery.
 
 Parents of children, who elope and then return home, often putting pressure on police not to register a case citing future of their children. “When the children who elope in the name of love are found, their parents put pressure not to register a case citing their future. Police then reports to the court that only the child could be found. In some cases, the lover of the female child would be booked for kidnapping,” said James Vadackumchery.
 
