BENGALURU: A  , who sued low-cost carrier   over the loss of her bag containing designer clothes and cosmetics during a flight in 2015, has been awarded a compensation of Rs 75,000 after a 14-month legal battle. 

 Niveditha Lokesh, a resident of Yadavagiri in   and an assistant professor with a local college, had on October 20, 2015, booked a ticket on an Air Asia flight for Rs 6,109 to travel from Bengaluru to Jaipur on November 19, 2015 to attend an international conference.
 
 Niveditha took the flight from   ( ) in Bengaluru and landed in Jaipur a few hours later. Much to her shock, one of her bags never showed up on the conveyor belt of the Jaipur airport. 
 
 She alerted the Air Asia staff about the missing bag, which she claimed contained clothes and cosmetics worth Rs 35,000. After the airline promised to trace the bag, she left for the conference venue for which she claimed she had to purchase new clothes and cosmetics for a presentation.
 
 On her return to Mysuru a few days later, Air Asia authorities informed her that the bag was stolen from the conveyor belt in Jaipur by an unidentified man and the theft had been spotted on a CCTV camera. The airline promised a refund of Rs 200 per kg (Rs 1,400 for 7kg bag) as per airline rules and later increased it to Rs 8,000 on compassionate grounds. 
 
 Irked by the loss and the airline staff's response, Niveditha lodged a complaint with the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in Mysuru. While she demanded compensation, mainly for the expensive contents of her luggage, Air Asia through its counsel called her claims false, frivolous and baseless.
 
 Air Asia claimed that it is liable only for items on the aircraft but has no control over baggage on the airport premises, which is the responsibility of airport authorities. The airline counsel said the woman passenger had failed to declare the contents of the lost luggage with valid documents to substantiate her claims and she wanted to make unlawful gain.
 
 The forum, however, said Air Asia was responsible for the loss, holding it guilty of negligence and pulling it up for deficiency in service. 
 
 In its verdict pronounced on March 2, the forum ordered Air Asia to pay the passenger Rs 75,000, including Rs 35,000 towards the lost bag, Rs 25,000 as compensation, Rs 10,000 for causing inconvenience and hardship and Rs 5,000 towards court expenses.
 
 
