CHENNAI: Imagine a diminutive  , with a big fist, portrayed as a ‘supersleuth’ taking down a terrorist gang. Action King Kapil, Superman Sachin, Batman Dhoni, Ironman Kohli, Gayle the Hulk --- cartoons and illustrations of legendary cricketers have always appealed to youngsters across generations.

 While Indian cricketers have been worshipped as demigods by fans, there are a few cricket aficionados who have taken it a step further, portraying the stars as superheroes in comic books. Autobiographies of legendary sportsmen are nothing new, but in recent times cricket comic series have captured the imagination of sports lovers and cricketers themselves. With a portion of his autobiography, ‘Playing It My Way’, soon to be released as a comic, Tendulkar will soon make his debut in the toon world.
 
 And   is the latest addition to the list of comic heroes. Dindigul-based KS Divakar, 23, has come up with a comic book ‘The Wall’, which will be launched online on January 11 at  , when the legendary batsman and current India U19 coach turns 45. The comic will feature 15 important incidents in Dravid’s life and career.
 
 It’s been more than three decades since a comic book on Gavaskar — ‘Sunny The Supersleuth’ — came out. Former India cricketer Dilip Vengsarkar still remembers ‘Superhero Sunny’ vividly. “Kids loved reading it, and got hooked to it and the sport. That’s one way to inspire the next generation of youngsters,” says Vengsarkar.
 
 Former first-class cricketer and renowned author V Ramnarayan says cricketers are ideal superheroes. “I feel children see cricketers as role models. Such books should portray the travails of the cricketer through his journey to the top. It should act as a piece of inspiration to the children who read it,” says the 70-year-old.
 
 
  
 
 Divakar, a die-hard Dravid fan, believes that telling sports stories through visuals make it more appealing to children. “When we first started our blog, we wanted to write articles and have a cartoon based on it. We received a lot of appreciation, so when I started my website, Sportwalk, I wanted to do something unique. That’s how we came up with the concept and the official Rahul Dravid Fan Club helped gather information,” says Divakar, who along with designer Adheedhan and writer Himamshu have worked on ‘The Wall’.
 
 Even budding cricketers get motivated when they see their role models as superheroes. Tamil Nadu wicket-keeper S Lokeshwar, who earned appreciation from coach Dravid during his stint with the India U-19 team last year, is eager to read the comic book.
 
 “Dravid is jovial and interacts a lot with youngsters. A lot of us look up to him for inspiration. I’m eager to read the comic book on him and what it is like,” says 19-year-old Lokeshwar.
 
 With Gen-Next well-versed with the online medium, Divakar believes comics should be created in such a way that it connects with the readers in every platform. “With a change in the way people read content, comics have to adapt to the new mediums and the subject must connect with the readers. We have plans to bring out comics on events such as India’s World Cup win in 2011. Even adults would cherish it as memorabilia,” he adds.
 
 
