MUMBAI: After a delay of almost a year, the BMC will kickstart its   plan of residential night   in A-ward from Monday. Under the controversial policy, the BMC will allow building residents of this ward in south Mumbai, which includes Fort, Colaba and Marine Drive, to park their vehicles on the road outside their building by paying Rs 1,800 a vehicle per month. The BMC wanted to test the scheme in A-ward last year, but the plan was hit by lack of approvals.

 On Saturday, the ward office got a go-ahead from the civic chief to implement the pilot   for six months. The BMC has divided the city into three categories: A (area that attracts higher footfalls); B (general commercial-office areas); and C (commercial areas frequented more by the middle and lower middle class).
 
 Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner and ward officer at A-ward, said, “From Monday we will ask societies in the area to pay six months’ fees in advance, after which we will allot them the residential parking slots. The society residents can park their vehicles in their allotted parking spots during a designated time. They cannot park their vehicle there round the clock.”
 
 Locals in Colaba stated sounded positive, but said they would prefer 24-hour parking. Subhash Motwani, president of Clean Heritage Colaba Residents’ Association, said, “There is no point asking resident to wake up at 7am to shift their car to another location. It should be a round-the-clock facility, for which we are following up with the BMC. They must also come up with a separate plan for old heritage buildings in the area that don’t have any parking space inside the premises and where residents are forced to park their vehicles on the road. Some of us also don’t have a society as these are tenanted buildings. That’s why we will request the BMC to allow us parking spots in our personal capacity.”
 
 The BMC has said that under the new policy, they will entertain requests only through residential societies, who will have the added responsibility of asking their security guards to monitor the parking. The BMC will only put up a board at the site stating that   parking at the   has been allotted to a particular society. They also will draw yellow boxes to demarcate the parking slot for a vehicle. The society needs to pay the BMC on behalf of its members.
 
 Local corporator Makrand Narvekar said, “It’s a very positive sign. Around 38 societies in the area were waiting for implementation of the policy. People want the parking to be regulated and are happy to pay to get a parking place outside their building. Normally, they are helpless as people from other areas park their commercial vehicles outside the residential building at random.”
 
 Narvekar’s remarks are in direct contrast with the stand taken by BJP MLA from Colaba Raj Purohit who has made it clear that he represents the entire area, whose residents, he claims, are strongly opposed to the policy. He is on record saying that the BMC has not taken the people into confidence before designing the policy and has promised to write to the BMC listing the objections.
 
 “The BMC has become very arrogant, it is taking decisions without any plan. At a time when we are promoting night life, many people visit south Mumbai. What if an outsider parks his or her vehicle in the allotted parking lot of a resident? It will create a law and order problem which the BMC is ill-equipped to handle,” said Purohit.
 
 
