Nagpur: In what could be the beginning of a major crackdown, the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) has derecognized 14 BEd colleges for the academic session 2018-19 from Maharashtra over non-compliance of its revised recognition order. The derecognized colleges include four affiliated to Nagpur University (NU) and one from neighbouring Gondwana University. The derecognized colleges of NU are Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya run by General Awari Smruti Shikshan Sanstha at Siraspeth, BG Patel College of Education, Gondia, Geeta Shikshan Prasarak Mandal, Jaitala and SP BEd College of Deshpande Layout. Rest of the 10 colleges are from places like Akola, Washim, Jalgaon, Osmanabad, Nandurbar, Nashik, Satara and Thane. The decision was taken by Western Regional Committee (WRC) of the NCTE in its 285th meeting held between December 19 and 21. As per minutes of the meeting, the colleges failed to reply to show-cause notices issued by the NCTE in 2016. The notices were served between November 2016 and March 2017 to all the 14 institutions. In the same meeting, the WRC has also initiated action against around 172 BEd colleges from the neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. It has decided to issue show-cause notices to some of them, derecognized several others and permitted closure in many cases. Eversince the statutory body introduced sweeping reforms in December 2014, it has taken tough decisions against the erring institutes. A BEd college teacher told TOI that there were different reasons for derecognizing the colleges. “In 2014, the NCTE had introduced new regulation and scrapped old recognition of the colleges. The apex body had also given fresh letters and sought affidavit from colleges for the compliance of the new norms. It seems the colleges didn’t fulfil the new requirements,” he said. In one of the show-cause notices to a state college, the NCTE had ordered hiring of additional faculty, increasing built-up area, creating bigger infrastructure and funds. The colleges were asked to submit supporting documents within a prescribed time. An NCTE official said these colleges were served revised recognition order and asked to update their data. “We are continuously monitoring BEd/MEd colleges. This is just the beginning. All colleges in Maharashtra are under scanner,” he said. In the revised order, the apex education body had asked colleges to submit proof of sufficient faculty, infrastructure, funds etc. When these colleges failed to update the data, the NCTE had issued show-cause notices in 2016. Colleges affiliated to Nagpur University Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya run by General Awari Smruti Shikshan Sanstha, Siraspeth BG Patel College of Education, Gondia Geeta Shikshan Prasarak Mandal, Jaitala SP BEd College in Deshpande Layout Gondwana University Khemaji Naik College of Education, Gadchandur Rest of the state Adiwasi Deomogara Education Society, Nandurbar Amruta Vaishnavi Education’s College of Education, Nashik Anandgram Drushi Vikas Mandal, Osmanabad Adarsha Adhyapak Mahavidyalaya, Washim Nanasaheb Dr Uttamrao Mahajan Shikshan Shastra Mahavidyalaya Anil Ramdas Kambe BEd college, Murtizapur Azad College of Education, Satara Bhairavnath Nisarg Mandals, Parbhani Bab-E-Rehmat Educational Trust BEd college, Thane