VIJAYAWADA: The ruling Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has decided to field two candidates for the Rajya Sabha elections and dropped the move to field the third candidate.

 TDP national president and chief minister Chandrababu   held prolonged discussions with senior leaders here on Saturday to collect their views on the elections and filling of the TTD trust board. Naidu was closeted with AP TDP president K Kala Venkata Rao, finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and others to thrash out the names for the RS nominees and TTD board’s new chairman.
 
 According to highly-placed sources, three names have come up for discussion for the two Rajya Sabha seats, while a single name was considered for the TTD chief post. Finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, who has been waiting for the Rajya Sabha seat, finally dropped the move to go to the upper house as the TDP withdrew from the Union cabinet. Sources said that he wanted to go to the Rajya Sabha with an eye on a cabinet berth and now that the TDP has pulled out of Narendra Modi cabinet, he had decided to opt out of the race.
 
 Sources said TDP had cleared a second term for CM Ramesh, who is now in the Telangana quota and retiring on April 2. He would be filling the vacant seat of T Devender Goud, who was allocated to AP in the bifurcation and retiring on April 2. The other two seats are to be vacated by Congress members K Chiranjeevi and Renuka Chowdary. While the Congress has no chance of retaining even a single seat, the TDP has the strength to wrest one seat from the Congress, while the other seat would go to the opposition YSR Congress.
 
 Having cleared one name and withdrew the idea to file a third candidate, Naidu is now seriously considering two names for the second seat. On Saturday, he had the names of Beeda Mastan Rao, a former MLA from Kavali in Nellore district and party general secretary and AP Housing Corporation chairman   to be considered for the second seat. Though Naidu did not favour the candidature of Varla Ramaiah initially, he had to look into it following a proposal to give the TTD chairman post to Putta Sudhakar Yadav.
 
 Giving too many posts to the Yadav community at this stage ignoring the requests from Madiga community would attract criticism, it was felt. Madigas from the SC list have been a strong force for the TDP right from the beginning. With the elections one year away from now, the TDP is also weighing the option of clearing Ramaiah’s name to balance the caste equations. 
 
 On its part, the YSR Congress has already named  , who had filed his nomination. The YSR Congress is running short of two MLAs (first preference votes) for its candidates and is pinning hopes on two MLAs who have defected to the TDP earlier and not happy with the ruling party now.
 
 
