MUMBAI: Seven men were arrested on Tuesday for the murder of   deputy shakha pramukh   in Kandivli (East) with the intention of gaining supremacy in an  . 

 The mastermind, Brijesh Patel, had given a contract for killing Sawant and was to pay Rs 13 lakh in cash besides providing the assailants with houses in the Nalasopara-Virar belt. 
 
 Patel joined hands with a former associate of Sawant, Nilesh Sharma, who had parted ways with the Sainik and wanted to teach him a lesson. 
 
 Sawant was shot dead by two men on April 22 while he was returning home on a bike with a labour contractor. He took a bullet in his chest, while another bullet grazed the foot of a bystander, Shashikant Vishwakarma. 
 
 Police added the charge of attempt to murder after Vishwakarma recorded his statement two days later. Sawant was coordinating between residents and a developer for the Gokul Nagar-Durga Nagar slum redevelopment project in Kandivli (East). 
 
 Patel, who lived in the same neighbourhood, got together a bunch of members from Prabhat Welfare Society who were opposed to Sawant’s participation in the project. 
 
 Patel started his own office a year ago and started coordinating between these members and the developer. According to police, Sawant was well established, and Patel wanted to dent his business. 
 
 Sharma had severed ties with Sawant as the latter would humiliate him and hadn’t paid him the kind of money that he thought he deserved. 
 
 For the past seven months, Sharma was not in contact with Sawant. But they clashed on April 11 during an SRA survey in Kandivli. “In 2009, there had been a bid on Sawant’s life which he had survived. At that time, Sharma’s brother had rushed him to hospital. That had brought Sharma and Sawant close. But after the clash last month, Sharma was keen to teach him a lesson,” deputy commissioner Vinay Rathod said. 
 
 The accused had two meetings at Appapada in Malad (East) for plotting the killing. They also made an unsuccessful attempt to bump off Sawant last month. Patel’s close friend, Brijesh Singh, was tasked with the job of giving some money to the other accused before the murder. Post the killing, Rs 3 lakh in cash was distributed.
 
 The accused were promised another Rs 10 lakh, houses in the Nalasopara-Virar belt, benefits in other SRA schemes in future and monetary aid. 
 
 Satyendra Pal, a parking attendant with a past crime record, was asked to procure weapons. Another accused, Amit Singh, was asked to arrange transport. Shooters Lokesh Singh and Abhay Patil went to the crime scene and fired six rounds, one of which hit Sawant. 
 
 “After the murder, the accused left for Uttar Pradesh separately. Six of them were traced to Badlapur in UP. Brijesh Singh was picked up from Malad,” said additional commissioner Rajesh Pradhan. A magistrate court remanded them to police custody till May 14.
 
