HOWRAH: The   in Howrah could be a litmus test for Bengal   to try out the Uttar Pradesh model that has upturned the “minority vote bank” politics practised so far by political parties.

 Situated 16km from Dhulagori in Howrah, where communal clashes broke out in December 2016, Uluberia has all the elements for religious polarisation. Tehatta High School, which saw prolonged tension last year after Muslim students were denied Nabi Diwas celebrations in 2017 and later Hindu students couldn’t perform Saraswati Puja, comes under the Uluberia North assembly segment. 
 
 Uluberia is just 24km from Sankrail, which saw a surge in communal passions in 2008. If this is recent history, there are more trouble points in and around the Lok Sabha constituency spread over Shibpur, Kajipara, Udaynarayanpur that can make the situation worse.
 
 In such a setting, Trinamool,   and   have all fielded Muslim candidates, paving the path for a counter-Hindu polarisation by BJP. “I wonder how other parties chose to go the same way when political rhetoric is changing all over the country,” said Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu. The state BJP thus sent party’s Howrah (rural) district president Anupam Mallik’s name to Delhi as candidate for Uluberia polls.
 
 Even as Mallik is waiting for the party’s announcement, BJP activists in the area are eyeing a similar plan to give a fight to Trinamool candidate Sajda Ahmad (Sultan Ahmad’s widow) putting behind CPM’s Sabiruddin Mollah. “We have requested our leaders to invite UP CM Yogi Adityanath to take part in the BJP yatra from Digha via Purba Midnapore to Howrah,” Mallik said. 
 
 The poll arithmetic is to consolidate the 54% Hindu votes in the constituency, a polarisation Bengal has never witnessed before.
 
 However, state BJP leaders are not banking on the Hindu card only. “We will try to cash in on the growing public resentment over corruption in government schemes from MNREGS to construction of toilets,” the Howrah district president said. 
 
 Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Mukul Roy is in touch with disgruntled ranks in Howrah Trinamool. But in this case, BJP has to share anti-incumbency, if any, with CPM’s Mollah in Uluberia East assembly segment and in Congress pockets in Amta though BJP has gained support bases in this segment.
 
 So Trinamool isn’t taking the election lightly. While Sajda hopes to benefit from the “good work” of her departed husband and the   government’s pro-people programmes and schemes, the Trinamool chief has asked party leader and minister Arup Roy to oversee preparations in Uluberia.
 
 On paper, BJP is no match for Trinamool. BJP’s tally during the 2014   wave was 1.37 lakh — Sultan got 5.7 lakh. But given the communal flare-ups, it expects brownie points strong enough to emerge a game-changer in Bengal politics.
 
 
