Bhopal: Kolaras and Mungaoli voted peacefully on Saturday, with the state election office keeping a close watch on events and moving quickly to prevent untoward incident.

 “Mungaoli police station in-charge, Kushal Singh Bhadoria, was removed on Friday night, upon the report of the observer that he could be partial during polls,” said MP chief electoral officer Salina Singh. On Friday, the EC had removed TI of Indaar police station, Suresh Sharma, from election duty in Kolaras after Congress complained against the lathi-charge in which candidate Mahendra Singh Yadav was injured.
 
 The turnout in Kolaras dipped slightly — from 72.8% in 2013 to 70.4% this time. Mungaoli was steady at 77% — the last time it was 77.49%. Both parties claimed victory. State BJP chief   said: “We will win both seats, keeping the high voting percentage in mind. Congress played all tactics but chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s popularity, development agenda, public support and PM Modi’s name will help us wrest both seats in the bypoll.” Rajya Sabha MP Prabhat Jha, who campaigned extensively, said: “The high voter turnout shows there is no anti-incumbency as claimed by some people. BJP will win both seats for sure.” 
 
 Congress is edqually confident od retaining both seats. “Despite use of government machinery, money and muscle power, the ruling party will lose both bypolls. The results will spell doom for BJP,” said PCC chief Arun Yadav.
 
 More than 3.25 lakh voters turned out to decide the fate of 35 candidates. Voting was peaceful at all 311 polling booths in Kolaras and 264 in Mungaoli constituency, with 18 companies of central forces and six companies of state armed forces standing guard. ECI had deployed independent observers to keep a watch, as well. 
 
 “It was the outcome of strict enforcement of model code of conduct, where prompt action was taken in case of any violation, that the elections were held peacefully in both constituencies,” said CEO Salina Singh. Only a minor scuffle was reported from polling booth No. 248 in Madwasa of Kolaras, but voting soon resumed, she added. 
 
 Eighteen VVPATs had to be changed in Kolaras — 11 during mock polls and seven during voting — and 15 in Mungaoli, she said, adding that minor delays were reported in some places. “Overall polls were conducted in a controlled atmosphere and no incident of boycott was reported,” she said. Voting went on till late evening.
 
 
