GREATER NOIDA:   held a meeting with National Highway Authority of India ( ) on Tuesday to discuss how to provide maximum connectivity to the sanctioned international airport at Jewar with nearby cities and highways. The focus of the meeting was regarding the construction of a cloverleaf at the interchange where the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) crosses over the  . 

 NHAI has given YEIDA three design options for providing connectivity between the two e-ways. According to YEIDA officials, about 37 hectares of land is required by NHAI to construct the interchange. This plot of land falls in the Jaganpur-Afzalpur area of YEIDA and the NHAI has been demanding that YEIDA give the land — estimated at Rs 161 crore — free of cost. However, YEIDA has not agreed to the terms of NHAI yet, as they had acquired the land from farmers and had to pay them an additional compensation of 64.7%. In November last year, in an effort to break the stalemate, chairman of   had directed that the said land be re-evaluated.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Arun Vir Singh, CEO, YEIDA explained that NHAI has suggested three design options for connectivity between the two e-ways. “They have proposed two-lane connectivity at a cost of Rs 118 crore, a four-lane connectivity at a cost of Rs 164 crore and a six-lane connectivity at a cost of Rs 191 crore,” he said. 
 
 “Finding the cost steep, we have asked our consultant Rites Limited to evaluate the options in terms of design and cost. We will now explore if we can undertake the project ourselves or along with the concessionaire of the e-way, Jaypee group. The funding model will also be decided soon. A decision regarding this will be taken in an upcoming board meeting on January 22,” Singh said. “The aim is to provide maximum connectivity to the upcoming airport from numerous places from the NCR and also to provide access to our allottees in the areas of YEIDA,” he added. 
 
 The EPE project is envisaged to provide better connectivity among cities of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Sonipat, Faridabad and Palwal, as well as to de-congest Delhi roads. Once completed, it is likely to take at least 70,000-80,000 vehicles off of Delhi roads. It is also likely to benefit UP and Haryana, as it would open up hinterlands for developing commercial areas and townships along the expressway. Expected vehicular movement on the e-way is about one lakh per day by 2021.
 
 
