In the latest episode of  , the Oberois learn from Khanna that   has run away.   tells   that she has nothing against Devyani as she helped him recover from his illness. Similarly, Rudra and Bhavya are thankful to her for all that she did for them. Shivaay decides to know more about her and goes to the Chinese joint she had mentioned. He inquires about Devyani from the cook there and goes to her house. 

 When he reaches her place, he finds his family photo framed on the well along with several other photos. Devyani enters and is shocked to see Shivaay in her house. She tells him she is not a thief. Shivaay assures her he doesn’t doubt her. She then reveals how she worked hard after her husband’s death to give her sons a good education but later in life they tricked her and left her at a hospital. Since the staff at the hospital was good, they sent her to an old-age home. However, her stay could not continue for long as it was shut down due to financial crunches. Since then she shares with him that she has been roaming around and staying with several families just to feel loved.
 
 Shivaay returns to the Oberoi mansion and tells Devyani’s story to everyone. He asks Rudra to inform the press that Dadi has found her sister who got separated from her during the partition. He also tells him to release Devyani’s photo with it. This he feels would tempt her sons and bring them back. Not just this, Shivaay also invites the press on the day Devyani's son decide to come and meet her.
 
 On the given day, Devyani gets ready in fine clothes and jewellery. Her sons come and meet her. One of them is greedy to know how much wealth she has. Devyani asks them to leave and tells them how they could not be good sons. When they are about to leave, Shivaay stops them and calls them back. He reprimands them and tells them about the importance of a mother. He tells Devyani to consider them family. 
 
 Later in the episode, Shivaay is seen in the car when Anika calls him. She asks him to return to the Oberoi mansion urgently. When Shivaay comes back, he finds Om, Bhavya and Anika staring staring at Siddhi Maa. When Shivaay sees Dadi, Rudra and Gauri in awe of Siddhi Maa, he shouts and asks who she is. Daadi tells him that she goes to her ashram and he should take her blessings. Siddhi Maa looks at Shivaay and tells him how glad she is to have finally met him.
 
 
