KOLKATA: The   administration has framed rules that will treat lawyers’ strikes as interfering with the administration of justice and will place the rules before a full bench of the court for its approval.

 The HC administration recently informed a division bench of Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and Justice Arijit Banerjee, which was hearing a public interest litigation, that “rules have been framed and are waiting to be placed before the full court for approval”.
 
 The Calcutta High Court witnessed its longest ever lawyers’ cease-work in March and April this year.
 
 Advocate Srikanta Dutta, who argued before the bench, said a Supreme Court constitutional bench had, in the course of a verdict delivered in December 2012, directed high courts across the country to frame “appropriate rules under Section 34 of the Advocates Act, 1961”. This section empowers high courts to frame rules governing advocates’ rights to practise in high courts as well as subordinate courts.
 
 The apex court directions said: “Appropriate rules... (have) to be framed by high courts under Section 34 of the Advocates Act..., making it clear that strikes by advocates would be considered interference with the administration of justice and they may be barred from practising before courts in a district or in a high court. The high courts will frame necessary rules so that appropriate action can be taken against defaulting advocates.”
 
 The same 2012 judgment prompted the Supreme Court on May 7 to issue summons to the   president and secretary to appear before it. Association president Uttam Majumdar said: “We have been summoned before the Supreme Court for the cease-work but I cannot comment on these developments.”
 
 Akshya Kumar Sarangi, who filed the PIL, sought information from the HC administration in July 2015 under the Right To Information Act whether such rules had been framed. The HC deputy registrar (administration), also its designated public information officer, informed Sarangi next month that the rules had not been framed. Sarangi then filed a PIL in the HC, seeking its directions for the framing of the rules.
 
 “A Calcutta HC division bench of then Chief Justice Girish Chandra Gupta and Justice Arindam Sinha directed the HC administration in November 2016 to frame these rules and also laid down the way it should be done,” advocate Dutta said.
 
 The 2016 order said the court’s Rule Committee should give a notice to the Bar Council and invite suggestions from advocates of district courts and sub-divisional courts.
 
 
