CHENNAI: Amid allegations of favouritism towards ruling party candidates, the withdrawal of nominations for the first phase of elections in more than 18,000   in   drew to a close on Wednesday. An electorate of 2.17 crore voters will elect 1.85 lakh representatives to multiple societies affiliated to 15 departments, with the polls being seen as a stepping stone for partymen who seek to run for higher office in the future.

 Representatives of at least 500 cooperative societies have been elected unopposed in the first phase. Members of each society will elect 11 directors, who would, in turn, nominate the president and vice president among themselves for the respective societies. Officials from the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Societies Election Commission ( ) said that primary agricultural societies receive loans from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) to the tune of around Rs. 8000 crores annually for agriculture and related activities. A few societies get funding from central cooperative societies in the form of loans to members. Against this backdrop, political parties are keen to capture a foothold in these societies.
 
 Opposition parties have charged that the elections are tilted in favour of the ruling AIADMK. K Nehru, Kancheepuram district secretary of the  , alleged that candidates from parties other than the   are being refused the opportunity to contest. "Election officers are not accepting our applications in several places which is undemocratic," he said. 
 
 The TNSCSEC has made the availability of nomination forms a hassle-free process by taking it online. However, noting that it makes no difference for contestants in rural hamlets without adequate infrastructure, Nehru said those in remote villages still depend on the election officers to distribute the nomination papers. "Not just in agricultural societies, the situation is same for other societies including fisheries and weaving. The election officers are biased towards contestants affiliated to the ruling party " he charged.
 
 When contacted by TOI, M Rajendran, commissioner of the TNSCSEC, denied allegations of bias. "In fact, for the first time we have implemented a model code of conduct for the cooperative society elections (for free and fair elections). So far, we have not received complaints from any major political party regarding rigging," he said.
 
 
