NOIDA: Around 30,000 students of National Institute of Open Schooling ( ) have been affected by the Medical Council of India’s (MCI) decision to debar students who have completed Class XII examination through open and distance mode from taking the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test ( ).

 With no response from the MCI to its “protest letter”, NIOS on Tuesday approached the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry, seeking its mediation to resolve the issue. The last date for filling up of the form for the NEET exam 2018 is March 9.
 
 In a letter to the Union HRD ministry, NIOS pointed out that the MCI had in September 2012 conveyed the decision to its board of governors that students appearing in Class XII examinations conducted by the   may be considered eligible for admission to the MBBS course and there was no reason for the sudden de-recognition. NIOS has urged the HRD ministry to take up the matter with the health ministry.
 
 CB Sharma, chairman of NIOS, told TOI that last year, 2,958 students had registered themselves for NEET, of which 2,710 appeared for the exams and 864 qualified. “We are a government board which caters to an unorganised section of students, many of whom come from socially weak background,” he said. The NIOS had received the recognition from the MCI in 2012.
 
 For the past five years, there was no adverse communication from the MCI about NIOS students and their eligibility for competitive exams. But after five years, the MCI sent a letter to the NIOS seeking the details of the course content/syllabus/practical schedules for incorporating the NEET provisions. After the letter was complied with, MCI de-recognised NIOS senior secondary certificates (class XII) and it was informed that NIOS learners would not be at par with those from the regular mode,” he said.
 
 The “sudden decision” of the MCI has created panic among students who had been preparing for the examin for over two years. Around 100 students protested at the head office of the NIOS on Monday.
 
 Anjali Prabhakar, a student of NIOS regional centre — Senior Secondary Public School in Noida’s Sector 23 — said she had been preparing for the board exams and the NEET exam for the past two years. 
 
 “We approached the NIOS chairman for a resolution to the issue but we have been told that there has been no change in the situation so far. We have decided to approach the court in case no positive response comes from the MCI,” she said.
 
 
