NEW DELHI:   defeated   by four runs in a rain-curtailed thriller to register their third win of the 2018 Indian   at the   stadium on Wednesday. With the victory, Daredevils jumped to sixth in the standings with six points.

 
 
 
 
 Defending 15 off the final over, Trent Boult held his nerves and gave away just ten runs to leave Royals short by five runs in the end. Krishnappa Gowtham hit a four off penultimate ball as they needed a six in the last ball but only managed to score a single. Royals suffered their fifth defeat in eight games and fell to seventh in the points table.
  
 
 
 
 Chasing a revised target for 151 runs in 12 overs, Jos Buttler gave Rajasthan Royals a flying start as they reached 50-run mark in just 3.1 overs. Buttler smacked three sixes and a four off pacer Avesh Khan to score 23 runs in the third over.
 
 Buttler raced to his fifty in just 18 balls, the fastest by a Royals batsman, in the fifth over with a six off Amit Mishra. Buttler was in excellent nick as he smashed a four and a six off Avesh in the next over as Royals reached 79/0 after six overs.
 
 Mishra ended the Buttler blitzkrieg in his next over as the batsman was stumped for 67, which included seven sixes and four boundaries, in the seventh over. Buttler added a valuable 82 runs for the opening wicket with D'Arcy Short in 6.4 overs.
 
 Then Trent Boult struck twice in the ninth over to put a break on the Royals run chase. Boult dismissed Sanju Samson and Ben Stokes cheaply to reduce the visitors to 100/3 in nine overs.
 
 Short smacked three consecutive sixes off Glenn Maxwell, but fell while trying the fourth maximum. The Australian smacked four maximums and two fours in his 25-ball 44 knock.
 
 Rahul Tripathi hit a four and Krishnappa Gowtham smacked a four and a six off last two balls off Liam Plunkett in the 11th, the penultimate over of the chase, to make the equation 15 off six balls. 
 
 Earlier, young Rishabh Pant cracked a blistering 69 while captain   (50) hit his fourth fifty of the season as Daredevils posted 196/6 in 17.1 overs when rain stopped play.
 
 The Royals invited Daredevils to bat but were guilty of feeding the home batsmen deliveries which were either too short or too full, making the job easy for the hosts after rain made it a 18-overs per side affair.
 
 The young Prithvi Shaw (47 off 25 balls) was yet again in sublime touch and raised a 73-run stand with his captain for the second wicket after the side lost Colin Munro (0) in the fourth ball of the innings.
 
 After Shaw's dismissal, Iyer and Rishabh Pant combined to punish the wayward Royals' bowlers, adding 92 runs for the third wicket in just 7.1 overs.
 
 Iyer hit his fourth fifty in last five matches as he consumed 35 balls for his 50, hitting three sixes and as many fours.
 
 Pant hammered the Royals bowlers all around the park in his 29-ball knock, studded with seven fours and five sixes.
 
 Jaydev Unadkat (3/46) removed both of them in the 15th over but by then the Daredevils had put up enough runs on the board.
 
 Vijay Shankar (17) came out to hit some lusty hits to help the hosts get close to 200-run mark. Rain began to lash the ground yet again and brought curtains on the Daredevils innings after 17.1 overs.
 
 
 
 
