AHMEDABAD: The teenager seated among youths five years his senior caught the eyes of all guests at the   Technological University (GTU) convocation at Mahatma Mandir in  . Nirbhay  , who got a BE (electrical) degree in October last year, is Gujarat’s youngest engineering graduate.

 His accelerated education began in class 8, as he finished class 8 to class 10 in six months and class 9 to 12 in the next three months, under the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) system run by  .
 
 After his father, an engineer, and his mother, a doctor, represented his case as a special one to GTU, the Admission Committee for Professional Courses ( ) and   (AICTE) approved his admission to  .
 
 At the sidelines of the convocation, Nirbhay was upbeat about his plans. “My shortterm goal is to get 10 BTech degrees in the next three to four years,” Nirbhay said. “I have also got an offer for a PhD from an IIT besides funding. My long-term goal is to set up a research centre in India for the defence sector.” He explained that his aim behind earning multiple degrees is developing multi-disciplinary approach in engineering.
 
 Nirbhay said, “For example, making a fighter jet requires knowledge of aeronautical, mechanical, electrical, and computer engineering among other skills.”
 
 He further said that India needs such a facility as India doesn’t lack technical knowledge but the bridge between that knowledge and application.
 
 
 
 
 He said India produces about 30,000 PhDs annually but we import toys from China.
 
 His father, Dhaval, who retired from his job as electrical engineer in a top private sector firm at the age of 36 years, insisted that Nirbhay is not special.
 
 “Everybody can be a genius. The question is of method and programming – the way we program our engineers or doctors. We devised a method to follow his body clock and maximize the time of concentrated studies. The focus should be on learning and strengthening concepts and not marks or degrees. This is the reason we read in newspapers that 92% of the engineering graduates are unemployable in our country,” he said.
 
 Dhaval Thacker added that he has already approached ministers at the Centre and state to facilitate the grooming of child prodigies.
 
 About the feasibility of Nirbhay’s dream to complete ten degrees in 3-4 years, Professor Navin Sheth, vice-chancellor of GTU, told TOI that the student and family has already expressed their wish to him. “We will have to seek permission for each of the courses in question – the way it was done during his accelerated course. Nirbhay has not enrolled in any course at the moment,” he said.
 
