NEW DELHI: The  , which has claimed 17 lives, has exposed how loopholes created by the multiplicity of authorities in Delhi compromise safety of workers.

    on Monday   out that the   of the Delhi government   carry out any   of the premises while registering factories and granting them licence under the ease of business rules. An order issued by the department on December 2, 2016 states that “no physical verification/inspection is required” before giving these permissions.
 
 Hitting out at the AAP government, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “As per this order, the factories in Delhi are not being inspected before renewal of licences. The unchecked sanctioning or renewal of registration and licensing allowed by the Kejriwal government has resulted in the factory owners like the one at Bawana to easily violate manufacturing norms, use child labour and hamper labour safety.” 
 
 The order was issued by the labour department as part of the government’s initiative to simplify the procedure for approving the building plan of a factory and granting it licence. Department sources indicated they were in favour of reviewing the provision as it was difficult to ensure workers’ safety without visiting a site. The Bawana factory had only one entry/exit, which was locked. 
 
 However, the BJP-led corporations also can’t escape their responsibility as the trade licence is granted by them and they are supposed to routinely check the factories for compliance. The Bawana property was allotted to a businessman for relocating from Vishwas Nagar and granted a licence for plastic goods, which was cancelled in 2014. The corporation claims that it has not issued any licence since 2014. 
 
 The owner of the Bawana factory was not the original allottee and was getting firecrackers repacked illegally. 
 
 Taking suo-motu cognisance of the incident whose victim list includes 10 women, Delhi Commission For Women has issued a notice to DSIIDC for an action-taken report by January 29 on preventing misuse of allotted land in Bawana and names of officials responsible for ensuring norm compliance. 
 
 
