If there is a cause that she believes is worth fighting for, she picks a battle. Yes, she could be a lone warrior, but lethal nonetheless. Last year, the actress went through phases of dramatic highs and lows — clashes at the box office, raging war of words with industry folks and a scary accident on the sets of her film. And amidst all the personal and professional pandemonium, she found peace in building her dream home in Manali. She was shaken up at times, but never lost steam. She tells herself, “I have never done anything in my life without obstacles, here is another,” and moves on. That’s   — chin up, confident and all charged up. Excerpts from a conversation with BT…

 
 My accident was nerve-wracking, I was shooting an action scene and someone missed the beat and hit me on the wrong cue. That’s the thing about action, you can be sure about yourself, but there are other people too, and what if one misses the mark? The incident shook me up and I went through a phase where I thought that this is not for me. Even the greatest films are often forgotten quickly, so I was dealing with the conflict of whether it was all worth it. I had thoughts of running away so that no one could find me and I didn’t have to go back to shoot (laughs!).
 
 
 Well, it did concern me initially, because when such things happen, even the actors get hugely affected. I believe that when you are making a story based on a historical character, you have to take responsibility. You have to be precise and can’t take liberties. You can always add a disclaimer if the makers of the film are ready to compromise on that, because some things are not recorded in history. The biggest success of last year was ‘Bahubali’; it was a fantasy film, but there were inspirations and references from mythologies. A lot of artistes say that people shouldn’t get so sentimental about movies. I don’t agree with that. If I am making a film on Rani Lakshmibai, why wouldn’t I want people to be sentimental about it? Why else would I ever make a film on her life? For that matter, why would I ever make a film if I don’t want people to be sentimental about it? Generally, films shape a part of our lives, our psyche, and reflect our social behaviour. Films are always going to be a means to evoke emotions and thoughts in people. Artistes need to be respectful of that, too. I greatly admire Lakshmibai’s life — it is the story of one woman taking on an empire to save her people and motherland. For two years, I was trying to get it made and when Krish (director) came along, he had a different interpretation. For him, she is not a woman you can identify with, she is someone you worship. It took me some time to get into that space. He saw her as the reincarnation of Goddess Durga. The entire film is very well researched and is an ode to her greatness. The action in the film is extraordinary; it is the kind you see in superhero films. Initially, this was different from my understanding of the character. In that way, Manikarnika... is somewhat in the superhero space.
 
 
 Going by that logic, let’s say that we had the freedom of expression that you are talking about… I want to know what we have done with that freedom in our movies. I am not saying that what is happening is the ideal situation, but there are a lot of things in our movies that I find objectionable — the depiction of women, sexism, eve-teasing and things like that. Even after over 100 years of cinema, the world often refers to us as a premature industry. We have to see where we go from here and what we will do next. I have no problem with the mass entertainers that we are making, but that cannot be the only kind of cinema that we want to make. Today, we are rehashing stories, making manipulative cinema to titillate senses and backing movies that will make big money. It took me two years to make a film on Rani Lakshmibai, as I didn’t have the money to back it. Finally, people who truly believed in it came on board. Today, if I want to make films like Living Room Part 3 or Bedroom Part 4, it is easier, but people don’t have the money to make films on historical figures like Maharana Pratap, Rani Lakshmibai, Chandragupta Maurya, Prithviraj Chauhan and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. If people are happy watching films on contemporary heroes like Milkha Singh and Mary Kom (both did good business, too), why won’t they see stories of other great people? No one can give me this bullshit that people don’t want to see such stories. In that sense, the industry has misused its freedom. So the point I am making is, what are we going to do with the freedom that we have?
 
 
 It was unfortunate that the films didn’t do well, but they weren’t creatively disappointing for me. With  , from the point of marketing too, the film didn’t gather excitement. I’ve seen the audience going and watching so many movies only to realise later that they were debacles. Sadly, in the case of ‘Rangoon’, people didn’t even give it a chance, they didn’t care about it. It was a revelation… I think that a film has to generate excitement. Not just the book, even the cover of the book has to be interesting. ‘Simran’ was never meant to be a `100-crore movie, but we were expecting decent success. I did get some fairly good reviews, but somewhere, the feedback that I got from my friends who saw the film was that they wouldn’t recommend it to others. Well, ‘Simran’ is not a woman you want your family to be influenced by. This was a concern even when I was writing the film, as she is a woman in her thirties who has a dark side and is unabashed about it. ‘Lucknow Central’ clashing with it and ‘Bhoomi’ releasing in the following week didn’t help either. Having said that, I belong to that tribe of artistes who believe that when something fails, that’s because it lacked something. I never feel that the audience didn’t understand me, I take responsibility for it. People come to the theatres to like a film; nobody spends money to bash a film. I genuinely believe that with ‘Simran’, we lacked somewhere.
 
 
 There is only so much that you can control in life. When there are so many controversies around, you will be asked about them. Also, it gives me an opportunity to come clean on many issues and answer all the questions and doubts that people might have about me. I am not the kind of person who plans and picks one day to come clean and talk about everything. I could be talking about my craft or giving the audience a glimpse into my inner world — I personally see every interaction that I have during interviews as an opportunity to come closer to my audience. I am answerable to them for my actions. As a public figure, why pretend to give an interview when you don’t want to talk or give one? Why pretend to go around in circles when you have no desire to let the audience enter your world? I don’t do that. I’d rather not be in that space. Sometimes, I am asked questions that are very intimidating, but I make sure that I answer them. It makes me feel much closer to my viewers.
 
 
 Yes, there are, and at times, the way my past is spoken about sounds tacky. I believe in the Vedanta philosophy that your secret is very powerful. Whatever you keep as a secret has a life of its own, it starts to grow like a tree and takes over your existence. Anything that I hate and I can’t stand — whether it is about me or about my past — I speak about it openly because I feel that if it rests inside me, it will take over my life one day. I know it sounds trippy and twisted. Whenever I fear that a question will be asked, or someone’s name mentioned, I let it be asked as that is exactly what I should be doing — answering it. Why let a secret grow and flourish inside you? Would you like to let the demons flourish inside you? They will eat you up, right? Whenever I have shared horrific secrets of my life with people, they have been very kind and empathetic. It felt like detox. So many religions have given importance to confession. Whenever you confess to people, they start thinking about your miseries and battles, while you go home and get a good night’s sleep. Why else would a young woman like me bare my heart? When I share my secrets with people, it frees me. Ten years ago, when I would approach people, they would turn away. Now, they come across and give me a hug. I like the environment that I have created for myself.
 
 
 Somehow, the failure of Simran caused a setback in my plans to direct a movie. The entire onus came on me, though I was only the co-writer. I am not being able to get the kind of money that I needed for my directorial debut. I have never done anything in my life without obstacles, here is another one. Now, I need to wait for the tide to turn so that I can get a favourable environment. As an actor, people have a lot of faith in me and they value me, and I can say that with gratitude and humility. Likewise, if I am directing a film, I want people to have faith in me and invest in what I am doing without any doubt.
 
 
 Yes, I see myself as a warrior. I think fighting is underrated. A woman, who is always seen as fighting for what she believes in, is not looked upon as desirable. My team tells me that if I want beauty brands to sign me, I can’t have that image. Most brands propagate the stereotypical image of a girl whose life is a cakewalk. There is nothing dark about her and she’s not a struggler, but the lucky one. For their brands, they don’t want the face of a person who is associated with things like sexual exploitation, physical abuse and harassment. I think I am the perfect face of the young Indian woman today, but it’s a shame that they don’t think like that. Today, everything is about the survival of the fittest; if you don’t fight, how will you survive? We have to tell our women that some things are worth fighting for. It is subjective whether you are right or wrong, but you have to be strong to fight for what you believe in. 
 
 
