CHANDIGARH: An additional district and sessions   in Panchkula has turned down the request of nine accused of cash-for-job scam of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) demanding access call records and recordings gathered by the Special Investigations Team (SIT) probing the case.

 Additional district and sessions judge   accepted the argument by the prosecutor counsel that supply of the CD containing conversations and transcripts of conversations will hamper the investigations.
 
 On May 21, all the accused have moved the ADJ court saying, “It is the case of prosecution that there is recording of the conversation of all accused and other persons in regard to alleged examination scam of HSSC and if it is so, then it is the right of the accused to the copy of said CDs/transcripts and the police is bound to supply the copy of transcript/CD allegedly containing recordings of the accused and other persons.” 
 
 “On the directions of the court, CD containing the conversation of the accused and other persons and transcript of were giving to this court in a sealed cover for perusal. It is a matter of recorded that matter is still under investigations and application for taking the voice samples of the accused for the comparison of has been allowed by this court. It is to be ascertained whether the conversation is of the accused or of any other person. This court is of the view that the investigation may hamper due to providing of transcript,” said the ADJ while dismissing the request.
 
 Incident dates back to first week of April, when the CM’s flying squad had arrested nine persons, which included the staffers of HSSC in the cash for job scam. Among those arrested were Subhash Chand, Punit Singhodia, Dharmender Kumar, Anil   and Sukhwinder Singh, Rohtash Singh, Balwan Singh and Surender Kumar.
 
 A case under various sections of IPC and IT Act was registered against them at Sector 5 police station.
 
 Accused to give voice samples
 
 All the nine accused arrested in the case will give their voice samples at the   at   on June 13. While directing this, additional district and sessions judge Narender Sura said that in case any of the accused got bail by then, he shall report to SIT on June 12, and will accompany them to FSL top give sample.
 
 
