AHMEDABAD: An anonymous letter, copies of which were sent to several senior police officers, created a flutter in police administration as it levelled serious charges against the department. A confidential inquiry has been ordered to trace the source of the letter supposedly written by a  .

 A similar letter was circulated recently alleging several malpractices by senior government officials.
 
 The latest letter has pointed out “loopholes” in the promotion policy of the state government and has alleged bias against the regular recruits. It has urged all regular recruit officers to approach courts for their rights.
 
 Attacking the state  , the letter alleges that it remains silent whenever issues related to direct recruit IPS officers come before it for necessary action. The letter claims that postings in the state are being done on caste basis. “Officials of a certain caste are being given important postings,” the letter says.
 
 While handing over the probe to the state intelligence department, senior police officials warned that indiscipline will not be tolerated. “It seems that the writer of the letter is disturbed by the fact that recently 21 state police officers were promoted to the rank of additional SP, with many Gujarati police officers getting field postings. We are tracking the source of the letter,” said a senior state   official. 
 
 The letter mentions one government official — “Sahib”. It claims that no one can get promotion in the home department without his consent. It referred to two cases where police officers were allegedly abused by MLAs in the public and the IPS association preferred to remain mum. “We will have to change the structure of the IPS association,” the letter says.
 
 Citing Rajasthan DG’s example, the letter says, “The Rajasthan DGP offered to step down rather than to implement illegal government orders. Here, we follow such orders and hence are not appreciated by political leaders.”
 
 Levelling further charges, it claims that young regular recruits in the state are given only VIP bandobast duty while the promotee IPS officers have been reaping several benefits. According to the writer, even punishment for not handling any issue properly depends on recruitment process. The letter claims that recently a promotee IPS was transferred to a lucrative posting as “punishment” but a regular recruit was shunted to SRP for not doing his job properly.
 
 
