MUMBAI: The collection of profession tax—an indicator of formal sector jobs—was Rs 652 crore short of the annual target for Maharashtra in 2017-18, official figures show. Significantly, the collections actually fell when compared to the previous year by Rs 179 crore.

 This is the first decline in actual profession   collections in the last five years. It is also the widest gap between the target and actual collections in this period. The shortfall in 2017-18 is almost three times higher than it was the previous year, according to figures with the state   department which collects the tax.
 
 
  
  
 
 Economists said this suggests a possible cutback in   in the state. “The gap in profession tax figures indicates a cutback in formal sector employment, which is not surprising given the lingering effects of demonetisation,” said economist Ajit Ranade.
 
 
 
 
 Overall consumption in the state has grown, however, given the rise in GST collections compared to last year. Maharashtra also has among the highest GST collections in India. “The rise in consumption suggests jobs have grown, but in the informal sector. This is less desirable as informal sector jobs are lower paid and less secure,” said Ranade.
 
 The profession tax trend in the state contradicts payroll data released by Employee Provident Fund Organisation ( ) and   this week, which shows 2.2mn formal sector jobs added in India in the last six months.
 
 
  
  
 
 Ranade called EPFO data unreliable and said profession tax collection was a more accurate reflection of formal sector employment. “EPFO payroll data is not accurate as it can show multiple registrations for the same job. It also reflects job registrations but not dropouts. And the data could show transition from an informal sector job to the formal sector, which is not necessarily creation of a new job,” he said.
 
 Profession tax is paid by salaried and self-employed professionals. In the bulk of cases, it is paid by the employer to the government. Those covered by it are a range of professionals, including those employed by corporate bodies, as well as doctors, lawyers, architects, chartered accountants and management consultants.
 
 The target for 2017-18 was Rs 2,769 crore. Yet actual collections were much lower at Rs 2,117 crore. Collections in 2016-17 were higher at Rs 2,296 crore, according to data with the GST department. But officials with the GST department said an amnesty scheme in 2016-17 resulted in higher collections. As a result, the target for 2017-18 was set unrealistically high, they claimed. But while this may explain the wider gap in actual collections compared to target, it does not account for why collections were lower than the previous year.
 
 TISS economist R Ramakumar said the decrease “can happen due to the closing down or shifting of an establishment or reduction in formal sector employment.” But unrealistic targets could lead to a gap in projected tax and receipts, he added.
 
 Officials said they still have to analyse reasons for the decline, though fall in compliance could be a factor. The state budget for 2018 includes measures to boost compliance, including reducing the period of tax liability for those who apply late for registration. The period has been reduced from 8 years to 4 to push unregistered persons to enroll.
 
 
