KOLKATA: The   of the south Kolkata school where a dance teacher had allegedly been molesting a class-II student on the campus for last three months urged parents to send their daughters to the school from Monday to restore normalcy signifying that both the parents and the school authorities have made the safety of the children a priority over mudslinging.

 They also urged the parents to ignore rumours and give the school some time to undertake the precautionary measures suggested by the parents. 
 
 “They are human beings and need time to implement the precautionary measures suggested by us. The assurance has come from the top most authority in the school and we trust them,” said a representative of the parents after meeting the school principal and other senior members on Saturday afternoon.
 
 The thaw between the parents and the school marks a first of all sorts where both the sides have made the security of the children their main priority. In similar instances in the past the tension between the two sides continued for weeks.
 
 A group of parents reached the school around 10am and contrary to expectations of another round of protests agreed to hold talks with the school authority. The principal also reciprocated the gesture by assuring the parents to make all amends to prevent a rerun of Friday’s incident.
 
 “Co-operate with us. We have a history of a long standing relationship based on trust. There may have been some issues but we are doing our best to make the changes. Some of the parents today were students of this school. You know we wish well for our children,” said the principal.
 
 The representatives of the guardians urged other parents to send their children to school. “Everything is normal. Please send your child to school on Monday. Do not believe rumours that school has been shut down. The parents have to take the initiative to restore normalcy,” said another guardian.
 
 Many educationists termed it as a positive development and felt it will not only help the school and the parents to work in tandem to ensure the safety of the children but also save the students from terrorising images of protesting parents and the police on a warpath.
 
 “Both the parents and the school authorities have displayed exemplary maturity in dealing with the situation on Saturday,” said  , a former vice-principal. “The statement by the principal of the school suggests that the school authorities have accepted that there were some loopholes and they are willing to make amends. The response from the parents is an indicator of the fact that instead of indulging in a slugfest they want to co-operate with the school for the sake of their children. This should be an example for all the parents and the schools.”
 
 Many parents also appeared worried by the happenings outside the school which were triggered by Friday’s incident. Several organisations reached the school and tried to become a stakeholder in the protests. Many of them distributed pamphlets and put posters on the walls.
 
  “We request everybody not to stick posters on the walls of the school. It is a beautiful building with beautiful walls. Many organisations have been coming here to protest. They are within their rights to do so but please do not dirty the walls. Our daughters study here and we want a good atmosphere for them,” said a parent.
 
 Another parent who was a part of the group that met the parents requested not to politicise the matter. Since Friday evening several political parties and organisations have been agitating infront of the school and   police station. “An unfortunate incident took place but the school has been prompt to accept it and take remedial action. We will request everybody not to politicise the matter. This is having an adverse impact on our children,” said the parent.
 
