JAIPUR: A year after Vasundhara Raje government brought in a law granting government accommodation to former chief ministers for life, the law comes under the scanner in the light of Supreme Court’s order quashing Uttar Pradesh Assembly law that granted permanent accommodation to former chief ministers (CMs).

 The Rajasthan Ministers' Salaries (amendment) Bill-2017 was introduced and passed in the   during the budget session in April 2017. As per the provisions, chief ministers of the state, who serve a full tenure, are eligible for a government accommodation in Jaipur or any of the district headquarters, even after they vacate office. They are also eligible for a car and a driver, a telephone and a staff of 10. In case facility is not availed by ex-CM, government will reimbursed a fixed monthly amount.
 
 Rebel BJP   Ghanshyam  , who is opposing the law and has challenged it before the state Lokayukta, has now demanded that it be repealed. ``I have been saying this from day one. The state had introduced the bill on the lines of Uttar Pradesh, which has been quashed by the SC. Rajasthan government too must repeal its similar law,’’ said Tiwari.
 
 The senior MLA claimed that the bill was introduced as a plot by   Raje to legalise the CM's attempt to occupy 13, Civil Lines - her present residence - for life and to restore benefits akin to jagirdari system and privy purse.
 
 Raje, in the name of austerity, had refused to move into the official CM resident (8, Civil Lines) and continued to live in the much-smaller 13, Civil Lines, after she came back to power in December 2013. 
 
 Of the 12 former chief ministers,   and Ashok Gehlot are the only two chief ministers alive. 
 
 Pahadia was the chief minister from June 6, 1980 to July 13, 1981 and is a former Governor of Haryana and former Governor of  . He continues to live at 5, Hospital Road.
 
 Being a former chief minister Gehlot has been allotted 47, Civil Lines. He is a sitting MLA but that does not make him eligible for a ministerial bungalow.
 
 Two-time chief minister of the state and former vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s family too continues to hold possession of his official resident – 14, Civil Lines. He had moved into this house in 1998 after   had come to power in the state. After Shekhawat’s death in 2010, the house was re-allotted to his wife Suraj Kanwar. His adopted son Vikramaditya Singh, son of BJP MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi and Rattan Kanwar, Shekhawat’s daughter, refused to vacate the accommodation after the death of Shekhawat’s wife in 2014. 
 
 ``Raje should immediately vacate her present residence and move back to the designated CM resident, which is 13, Civil Lines. Gehlot and Pahadia too should vacate the government accommodations immediately,’’ said Tiwari. 
 
 Similarly, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Kirori Lal Meena and his MLA wife Golma Devi continue to live at 2, Hospital Road - government accommodation meant for a minister. The house was allotted to Golma Devi in 2008 when she was a minister in the Ashok Gehlot government and has not vacated since.
 
 
