Margao: Chief minister Manohar   on Saturday said that the state government would construct   for all those 70,000 households who do not yet have sanitary facilities, by October 2. 

 Speaking at a function held to mark the inauguration of a child protective home for girls of “Matruchhaya Trust” at Borda, Margao, Parrikar said that it was revealed in a meeting of the open defecation free programme held on Saturday, that 70,000 households in Goa still do not have toilets in their homes. 
 
 Parrikar veered to this topic of open defecation after lauding the Matruchhaya Trust for their service for the welfare of the girl child, for the last forty years. 
 
 “It is passion that drives some people to work for the cause of the society by dedicating their time, money and resources. One needs to be passionate about any cause,” Parrikar said, adding that his government was passionate about making Goa open defecation-free. 
 
 Speaking about the need to make Goa plastic-free, Parrikar said cloth bags will be provided in the markets by May 30. 
 
 Stating that the government would provide adequate support for any initiatives taken by charitable organisations, Parrikar, however, said that “old age homes are not under my radar (for extending support).” 
 
 “The rise in old age homes only shows the decay that has set in, in the society. Sending the elderly to old age homes is a wrong thing to do. In order to cure this disease, one needs to bring about the original cultural values in the society,” Parrikar said. 
 
 Minister for town and country planning, Vijai Sardesai, speaking on the occasion, stressed on the need to provide support and protection to charitable organisations like Matruchhaya Trust. 
 
 Matruchhaya Trust president Srinivas Dempo, in his welcome address, stressed on the need for inculcation of moral values in the children, a task which, he said, the trust, has been carrying out relentlessly for the last 40 years. 
 
 Raghunath Mane of Pentair Water India also spoke. 
 
 
