KOLKATA: A 25-year-old marketing executive was allegedly molested, abused, dragged out of a car, forced to touch the feet of a middle-aged rickshaw-puller and apologise for allegedly refusing to pay extra — for a 2km ride from   to a popular tea joint opposite  .

 The incident took place at DB Block in   around 9.45am on Tuesday. Even as torment continued with the woman and her friend surrounded by a host of rickshawpullers, no one — tea shop employees, local residents, passersby or the app cab driver who was there to pick her up — reacted, she claimed.
 
  
  
 “I have never been humiliated like this. I was forced to bend down and touch a stranger’s feet in the middle of a road, with several people laughing at me. My friend was the only one trying to help but the men stopped him and others on the road merely stood there,” said the woman at Bidhannagar Court on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 According to the woman, she and her friend got on the rickshaw at Karunamoyee bus stand around 9.30am to go to Pappu Chaiwala — a popular tea joint opposite Bidhannagar College. “The rickshaw-puller did not know the route so I guided him. I knew that the fare till City Centre was Rs 20 and our destination was barely 200km from there. I gave him a Rs 100 note and asked him to deduct Rs 30 as the fare. But he insisted it was Rs 40. When I refused, he began abusing me,” she said.
 
 When the woman argued that only an app cab would cost Rs 40 for the distance, the rickshaw-puller began abusing her. He allegedly said that a chhotolok like her could never afford a taxi.
 
 “As he continued to abuse us, we left the spot after letting him deduct Rs 40. The incident left me distraught so I decided to leave for office without having tea. I booked an app cab but then the man reappeared with a group of rickshaw-pullers and blocked the way,” the woman said.
 
 The woman alleged the men dragged her out of the cab but the driver did not help her despite her requests. Instead, he cancelled the booking and left the spot.
 
 “Then, the men held my friend and asked me to apologise to the rickshaw-puller alleging that we had hit him. When I denied, the men threatened to hit us and told us to apologise to the rickshawpuller by touching his feet. I begged them to have mercy but they wouldn’t let us go, forcing me to touch the man’s feet,” she added.
 
 At that point, a policeman on his bike stopped as he saw the crowd. The woman narrated her plight to the cop, who immediately called for backup and arrested the gang of tormentors.
 
 Based on the woman’s complaint, four rickshawpullers — Prahlad Biswas, Nirapada Manna, Palash Biswas, and   — were arrested.
 
 The rickshaw puller’s counsel, however, said the man and his friends were framed. “No one assaulted the woman. In fact, the woman’s friend had kicked and punched the rickshaw-puller against which his friends were protesting,” said Soma Mandal, Biswas’ counsel. They were produced in a Salt Lake court, which granted them bail.
 
 
