MUMBAI: A stream of followers converged at the Goregaon ashram of self-proclaimed guru Asaram after a special court in Jodhpur convicted him of having raped a minor girl whose parents were his followers. Most of them were women, and all of them felt he had been “framed”.

 
 
 The ashram is his only one in Mumbai. It is located near Goregaon (east) railway station at Peru Baug along Aarey Road. Police maintained vigil outside the centre through the day.
 
 Manager Suresh Dwivedi alias   said, “We are sure Bapu’s conviction will be overturned once we appeal in the high court [HC]. After all did the HC not grant relief to Salman Khan after a lower court held him guilty? We idolise Asaram Bapu and are convinced that there is a deep conspiracy at work against him. Otherwise why was he charged under the new Pocso Act right after it was constituted?”
 
 Dubey said, “Don’t you see how his bhakts are different from previous gurus who have been convicted of rape and molestation? Where Ram Rahim’s followers marched through the streets decrying his conviction and perpetrated violence, we continue to remain peaceable.”
 
 The epicentre of the ashram complex is a temple dedicated to the self-styled godman. An ayurvedic pharmacy and book stall are located on the ground floor.
 
 Wednesday’s visitors included a retired Dena Bank officer Subodh Naik, as well as several women and young girls who are clearly taken in by the preacher. As TOI asked if they would permit us to take pictures, a middle- aged woman broke into tears and said, “I would like to tell the world that he is innocent. But my own family opposes my adoration. I come here surreptitiously every evening after work, and hide his photograph in my handbag.”
 
 A cluster of important looking devotees discussed the verdict in the office, and directed queries to Asaram’s headquarters in Ahmedabad. Indeed even on the eve of judgement day, the spokesperson of the retreat had said, “We are awaiting a circular from Ahmedabad that will determine how we react to the verdict. We do not decide independently.” The circular was expected to factor in possible reactions to both possibilities, conviction and acquittal.
 
 Vanrai police station which oversees Peru Baug deployed a sizeable force outside the centre. It was the ashram that served sherbet and food to policemen through the day.
 
 “On Tuesday we received a letter from the inmates informing us that the judgement was due on Wednesday. Of course by then we already knew since television was announcing the countdown,” said a police officer. He declined to say if the ashram had requested bandobast.
 
