GHAZIABAD: A 21-year-old man was arrested on Monday, along with his   and three accomplices for the alleged abduction,   and   of a   girl belonging to Modinagar in January this year. The 15-year-old girl, who was the daughter of a temple priest, had left her home in a huff on December 26 last year after being reprimanded by her mother for possessing a mobile phone gifted to her by a male friend.

 The body of the girl, a student of Class X, was found in a cane field in Partapur area of   on January 12 where the main accused, Sumeet, had disposed it off after murdering her with the help of his accomplices. Sumeet, a hair-dresser who ran a saloon near the girl’s house in Modinagar, had kept her captive in   for 16 days before her murder.
 
 “I had met the girl at the wedding of the sister of a common friend. She had called me to meet her on December 26. She told me she wanted to marry and live with me otherwise she would end her life. I too wanted to marry her. But when cops picked me up for questioning a few days later, I realized that she had other male friends too. She used to talk to them over phone as well. That’s the reason I killed her. My father helped me in the murder in order to save my life. I had kept the girl with me in my home for a day after she came over to live with me. We took her to Partapur on January 10 in a hired car. First we strangulated her with a stole. But since she was still breathing, the driver advised us to run the car over her. All the accused are my friends,” said Sumeet. 
 
 Police have recovered the silver-coloured Delhi-registered Swift car that was used in the murder. The private car had been hired by Sumeet’s father, Ramesh (60), by paying a rent of Rs 1,500 to its driver Sonu. According to police, the girl was strangulated with a stole on the rear seat of the car. The driver Sonu (26) then ran the left rear wheel of the car over the girl’s chest.
 
 According to police, the girl had been kept captive in Vijay Nagar from December 27 to January 10 in the house of Sumeet’s friend Rajiv (26), who worked as a cleaner in a Noida-based call centre.
 
 “After leaving her house on December 26, the girl called up Sumeet from a public phone booth. Sumeet arrived to meet her on a bike along with another friend Arif. The three roamed around in Modinagar area on the motorcycle for the entire day on December 26. They also went to Arif’s house in Niwadi. The same night, Sumeet took the girl to his own house in Niwadi. Sumeet has told police during interrogation that he had a physical relationship with the girl on the night of December 26. The next day, he took her to Rajiv’s house in Vijay Nagar. He requested Rajiv to provide sanctuary to the girl for a few days before he married her,” said SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 However, Rajiv’s wife grew suspicious and began raising objections when Sumeet did not return to fetch the girl even after a fortnight. Police said Sumeet and his father hatched a plan to eliminate the girl after pressure was mounted on suspects for her recovery.
 
 “The motive behind killing the girl was the fear that Sumeet would be caught by police the moment they let the girl free. There was a law and order problem in Modinagar after the girl went missing, as a result of which police had intensified their search. All the five accused namely Sumeet, Ramesh, Rajiv, Arif and driver Sonu had accompanied the girl to Partapur where they killed her. They had also crushed her face with a stone. The girl had not been sexually assaulted by anyone else other than Sumeet,” said Krishna.
 
 A post-mortem was conducted on January 13. The girl’s mother had thrashed her on December 25 after being informed by her tutor that she had been using a mobile phone during classes. The girl had destroyed the SIM card of the phone before leaving her house the following day. Police had initially registered a case pertaining to kidnap in Modinagar police station on December 27. Subsequently, sections of the IPC pertaining to murder, criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence and rape were added to the FIR along with relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.
 
 
