GURUGRAM: The district town and country planning department ( ) has clamped down on an illegal residential colony that is being constructed in   allegedly on a government land. 

 According to senior officials, some local BJP functionaries have a stake in the under-construction  .
 
 Officials said the department has already slapped showcause notices on four residents and asked them to appear before the district town planner along with the site plan, registration deed and other necessary documents. “We have given them one week’s time to present these documents, failing which they will have to restore the land to its original estate and bring it in conformity with the provisions of the notified development plan. Apart from this, we will also take legal action against them,” said an official. In fact, the district authorities came to know about the  . 
 
 “Since it is a notified land, nobody can subdivide the agricultural land through selling of plots or raise any sort of construction without obtaining the necessary permission under the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act, 1975. Now that this illegal construction has come to our notice, we have ordered that the construction work be stopped immediately,” he said.
 
 “While as of now, names of only four individuals have come forward, we are not ruling out the involvement of others. There are also reports of involvement of some local leaders of the ruling party. This piece of land has allegedly been bought from a prominent private builder and there are allegations that some of these local politicians had played a significant role in getting this land from the private builder. We will be probing all angles in this case,” said another official.
 
 When contacted, BJP MLA from Badshapur, Rao Narbir Singh, who is also a cabinet minister in the Khattar government, said he was not aware of the under-construction illegal colony.
 
 “I am not aware of any such illegal construction taking place in my constituency. However, I will get this checked and action will be taken against those who are found guilty,” he told TOI. The party spokesperson though said that it will conduct a probe if the allegations are found to be true. “We would welcome anyone giving proof which can be sustained in a court of law. However, such allegations will have to be proved and should not be baseless,” said Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson.
 
 
