"I did not know what semen-flinging was. I learnt that today. My kurta tells the tale," wrote a first-year student of Lady Shri Ram College for Women ( ) in an Instagram post on Tuesday. In the post, the student describes her ordeal when a guy threw a semen-filled balloon at her in  , when she was going back to her hostel. In the run up to  , tales of   on Delhi’s streets become quite common, but this incident still came as a shock to many.
Pinjra Tod, a women’s collective, protested against the incident on Wednesday, and after similar incidents from other students were reported, more protests followed on Thursday. 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Wednesday evening, Pinjra Tod organised a protest called ‘Bura Kyun Na Manoon?’ across Vijay Nagar and Hudson Lane
  to express their collective anger and resistance against harassment on the pretext of the popular sentiment of ‘bura na mano Holi hai’. 
 The protest aimed to send out a clear message against   in the name of Holi and the "normalisation of this kind of   harassment". "The message ‘bura toh hum manenge, iss baar nahin hum chhodenge’ was loud and clear. With the presence of so many women students and their slogans, it was clear that the message and the warning reached people. Throughout the march, there were women who came out on their balconies, and clapped and cheered in agreement. Older women too cheered and joined the march to speak out against this practice. It is fairly clear that women do recognise this as sexual harassment, but the normalisation of it in the name of Holi ‘fun’ and ‘tradition’ stops them from speaking up. This collective initiative and march helped us make that point," said Avantika Tiwari, a Pinjra Tod member who was part of the protest. 
 
  
  
 
 
 On Wednesday, another incident of being targeted by a semen-filled balloon was reported by an LSR student at the Amar Colony police station. Girl students say that they have been on the receiving end of such incidents for the last few years, and the problem has come to light only when they started reporting them. "Another case has been filed by a student on Wednesday and this is just not acceptable. These are two cases that have been reported, but there are many that haven’t been reported yet," said a student from LSR. However, it was later found that the balloon in the second incident had been thrown by a girl, and the students said that they weren’t sure about its contents. The victim had also accepted a written apology from the accused’s family. 
 Following the two incidents with LSR students, their fellow-students organised a protest at the back gate of LSR on Thursday afternoon. "The idea behind this protest is how the bodies of women have been subjugated to violence. Just like increased pollution around Diwali is a concern, hooliganism around Holi also poses to be one. It’s just that no one talks about it. ‘Bura na mano holi hai’ is not the way we go about it. Boys on their bikes come outside girls’ colleges and hit them with balloons, saying, ‘Bura na mano holi hai!’ This normalisation is what this protest aims to fight. This is the worst form of sexual harassment where a festival is used as an excuse," said Abhilasha Maitra, a third- year student of LSR. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Another semen-filled balloon was flung at a second-year student of History (Hons) of Jesus & Mary College (JMC) by two men on a scooty, while she was going back home in a DTC bus. Following the incident, a protest was organised at the Delhi Police Headquarters by the students and the teachers of the college on Thursday. "Holi hooliganism nahi sahenge," shouted the protesters outside PHQ. "Luckily, she had kept a bag in front of her, which saved her. We are doing a peaceful protest at Police Headquarters, because we want the police to take proper action against those who are responsible for this. I am so enraged right now that I could thrash someone," said Prerna Vats, a second-year student of JMC. Raavi Jotwani, president of the students’ union of JMC, added, "The problem is not just a balloon with semen, the problem is balloons. The problem is this culture that is normalising the fact that since it is Holi, men can attack and harass women. This starts 15-20 days before the festival. There are girls from our college who have texted me that they can’t be here for the protest because their parents are not allowing them step out. This is like restricting and limiting women in the name of Holi."
 
  
  
 The students also handed over a memorandum addressed to the Commissioner of Police, Delhi, Amulya Patnaik, to take appropriate measures to curb harassment of women during Holi. Madhur Verma, DCP New Delhi, came outside the PHQ to address the students. He said, "I must congratulate you all for the courage that you have shown. Delhi Police encourages this effort. We have also raised the issue at an appropriate level regarding the throwing of water balloons. Delhi Police has already issued an advisory that in Delhi, a prohibition order under Section 144 is imposed. A prohibition order means that if a person is throwing balloons or playing Holi with an unwilling person, that is prohibited by law. If somebody is doing it, it is an offence. I was also told about the incidents at LSR, and we have already lodged an FIR regarding both the incidents. And regarding the JMC incident, which I have been told took place at Sagarpur – if your college committee gives us the report, we will lodge an FIR and take action."
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
