BHOPAL: The 10-day nation-wide strike by farmers from June 1 has triggered panic among the citizens of the state capital as they anticipate shortage of vegetables and milk and significant price hike in the upcoming days.

 
 Perishable goods like green vegetables and milk that cannot last for more than two days even in refrigerator have left the citizens a worried lot forcing them to find alternatives like instant food, dal-rice and may even rely on potatoes and onions in the name of veggies.
 
 Vendors at Bittan Market are expecting a price hike in vegetables like bottle gourd, bitter gourd, methi, cucumber and cauliflowers after the stock in mandis runs out.
 
 Arun Singh, who has a vegetable shop in the Bittan Market for last 25 years said, “The situation will be like last year when vegetables were in short supply and vendors were selling the limited stock at sky-high rates. The real effect of the strike will be seen after three days when our stock gets exhausted. No matter what we do we cannot make them last for more than three days.”
 
 Another vendor at Bittan Market, Sunil Sunone, who sets up his weekly shop on Thursdays said, “The prices will be doubled or tripled, if the strike lasts for more than four days because there is no stock. Besides, if we have to do our business, we will have to purchase vegetables directly from the farms, which will be more difficult for us. This will lead to a price hike.”
 
 Consumers are also nervous as they do not know what will happen, if the mandis stay empty for 10 days consecutively. “I am trying to stock potatoes and onions in my fridge because nothing else lasts that long. But I can get frozen peas and carrots from supermarkets. But I hope the strike does not last for 10 days, else the situation will get really difficult with each passing day,” said Kanchan Ahuja, a yoga teacher.
 
 Arjun Soni, a businessman said, “The situation may not be that difficult for those, who can afford to buy vegetables at high prices. But the families, who are not financially sound, the strike can cause a lot of panic and shortage of food. I just pray that some conclusion is reached and the farmers’ demands are fulfilled so that the strike ends soon.”
 
