NEW DELHI: For the students of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Jahangirpur, the opportunity to take part and dance in the   parade is a matter of pride. While showcasing a small act from their dance performance, these children couldn’t contain their excitement of representing their school in front of an audience of lakhs.

 The Vidyalaya is one of the five   performing on January 26, a part of the contingent of students from all corners of the country. Also included in the five participating schools is Oxford Foundation School, Najafgarh; Mount Abu Public School, Rohini; North East Zone Cultural Centre, Dimapur and South Central Zone, Nagpur.
 
 The students from SKV will start the school performances with a welcome dance, comprising folk dances from 5 Indian states — Haryana, Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal.
 
 Students from Dimapur will be presenting the Sangrai dance, students from Nagpur will showcase the Baredi folk dance, Mount Abu will represent the ASEAN countries, and Oxford Foundation School will perform on “Shikshit Bharat, Sashakt Bharat”.
 
 The selection of students and schools took place during September by a panel of 12-member experts from the Ministry of Defence and Indian Council for Cultural Relations representatives. “The ICCR picked the students from different states after perusing through CDs sent to them by different centres,” said Harjeet Kaur, deputy director of education (physical education).
 
 Their selection took place in September, and since then students have been practicing non-stop. Every morning from September 15 till date starting at 7am, the students have been using their school auditorium to learn and practice to perfection. The students also took to the internet to understand the different cultures that they had to depict during the parade.
 
 Kaur said this is a special event for the participating kids because getting selected to perform is not easy, considering the competition. “Students as young as Class 7 and 8 have participated in the function this year,” she said.
 
