GREATER NOIDA: The   district administration has said it will extend “all possible support” to the seven-year-old girl   by a police constable earlier this month.

 DM BN Singh said a team from the administration would soon visit the girl’s family and assure them of   so that she goes back to school. “We will talk to the girl and her family. We will also approach the school authorities so that the girl returns to attend her classes. We will provide them all possible support,” Singh said.
 
 The girl’s mother said no administrative or police officer had visited them till Saturday evening.
 
 Officials said the government might give Rs 5 lakh to the girl’s family in keeping with its policy for rape survivors. TOI had reported on Saturday how the seven-year-old girl was leading a lonely battle ever since the January 10 assault on her, with only her textbooks to give company. She is too scared to step out of home and go to school.
 
 Constable Subhash Singh allegedly raped the girl in front of her younger brother for around half-an-hour after promising to give the children a 10-rupee note if they accompanied him. 
 
 Alerted by the girl’s cries, when neighbours banged on the door of Singh’s room, the constable fled the house. When he sneaked into the room the next morning, the neighbours surrounded him and beat him up before handing him over to the police.
 
 A clip of the constable being kicked and punched and begging for mercy had gone viral on social media, becoming TOI’s most-watched video that week. 
 
 The girl, a student of LKG in Surajpur, has stopped going to school since. She lives with mother and four siblings, but mostly keeps to herself in the house as her mother works for around 12 hours at a local bakery. 
 
 The mother said they had been trying to restore the girl’s confidence. 
 
 “We keep telling her that things will get better some day. I go for work in the morning and return home late in the evening. My daughter mostly stays at home. I am trying to convince her to go to school,” she said.
 
 
