KOLKATA: Fifteen top city  , pushed to the wall by the 10-fold hike in excise licence fees, have appealed to the state government to scale down the “unreasonable” hike.

 The Bengal government has increased the licence fee for serving   at clubs and bars from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh, effective from the 2017-2018 financial year, which means all these establishments will have to pay the hiked fees by the end of this month (when the financial year ends). Among the clubs that have protested against the government diktat, after the detailed notification was re-issued on February 12, are Calcutta Club, Calcutta Cricket and Football Club, Royal Calcutta Golf Club, Calcutta Rowing Club, Lake Club, Calcutta International Club, Dalhousie Institute, Outram Club, Saturday Club and Calcutta Swimming Club.
 
 All these clubs, plus many of the other establishments that may not have signed this appeal, feel that running bars will become loss-making if this 10-fold hike has to be paid.
 
 
 
 
 The only other option is to raise membership and annual fees, which may not be palatable for most members. Most of the clubs have argued that these establishments are run like societies and should not be treated like commercially run restaurants. A Calcutta International Club office-bearer pointed out that most of the city’s clubs, which were more than 80 years old, were part of the petition.
 
 The licence fee for five-star hotels, too, has been hiked 10-fold, from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 20 lakh.
 
 Calcutta Rowing Club general secretary Chandan Roychowdhury felt it would be unfare to treat these heritage clubs on par with restaurants and new-age corporate clubs. “These old clubs are not profitable organisations. Most are affiliated as sports clubs and act as registered societies,” he added.
 
 Asenior member of another century-plus-old club pointed out that for many clubs, like the 127-year-old Calcutta Ladies Golf Club, the circular could be death knell for the bar. CLGC president Ditipriya Banerjee said the club’s average annual liquor sales varied between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh. “Paying a licence fee of Rs 5 lakh for serving liquor is absurd. We have only 240 members and our club shuts at 8pm,” she added.
 
 Some big clubs might have already seen a drop in liquor sales because of the price hike, a senior member of another heritage club said.
 
 Calcutta Club president Tamal Mukherjee said it had told the government about these concerns. Dalhousie Institute president Joyjeet Das said, “We have three bars, one main and two additional, for which we used to pay Rs 1.1lakh yearly. We now have to pay Rs 9 lakh (adding up the fees for the two categories of bars). We cannot be billed like restaurants.” Eastern Metropolitan Club secretary Sanjib Ghosh, too, felt the hike was abnormal.
 
 A senior excise department official said a lot of corporate clubs and even some restaurants had registered themselves as clubs. “They cannot get so much benefits,” the official said. “Let the clubs speak to us about their concerns and we will discuss the issue,” he added.
 
 
