 doesn't overpower, he overwhelms. Going over, playing under the snap of his wrist, the brush of the ball. Staggering range, riveting footwork. A surgeon's cut, an artist's eye. The sting in the 36-year-old's aggression lies in his precision. His ability to puncture.

 
 Hyeon Chung - some 14 years and 284 days younger than his celebrated opponent in the second of the men's semifinals of the   - wasn't outplayed, he barely played. The Korean was undone by blisters on his left foot. The 21-year-old underwent hours and hours of treatment through the two-weeks of competition, of which he spent 13-hours on court. He had his blisters shaved off and took pain-numbing injections to get on court. He started, but couldn't finish, stopping after 62-minutes of action on Friday. He clutched at a towel and shook his head to signal that he couldn't carry on.
 
 Federer had won the first set 6-1 in 33 minutes was leading 5-2 when Chung conceded after a backhand volley floated long. The Korean, ranked 58, who will now climb some 30 places in the rankings, took a seven-minute medical time out after the fifth game when the trainer had a look at his foot and re-taped it. Chung then held serve in the sixth game on a rain-hit evening when the roof was rolled over the Rod Laver Arena.
 
  
 "Many emotions come together because I am retiring in semis," Chung, who made his first charge to the lastfour of a Slam, said. "But I think I did the right thing. If I play bad, it's not good for the fans. I'm happy I made the semis of a Grand Slam. I want to be stronger next year."
 
 Federer, playing the senior statesman, was quick to applaud his opponent, who stunned the full house when he called it quits, such was the way Chung functioned. "He's going to be a very good player, going to have a lot of success. At what stage, how much, we will see. I can see why he beat players like Novak (Djokovic), Sascha ( )," Federer, who noticed his opponent had slowed down considerably in the second set, said. "He's very steady mentally. Today he was in a lot of pain, but you couldn't tell almost. I like that, the idea of hiding any problems from the opponent. His tennis is very intense. The question is, with that kind of a game, you got to take care of your body, also the schedule maybe."
 
  
 
 Federer's charge to the title round at Melbourne Park, put him in him in a seventh final, the Swiss taking sole ownership of the record of most men's finals here in the Open era.
 
 The 36-year-old, one match away from his 20th major crown, in his 30th final, will clash with   on Sunday. The sixth-seeded Croat failed to challenge the defending champion the last time the duo met in a major final in Wimbledon. 
 
