MALAPPURAM: A protest by local residents over land acquisition for widening of national highway 66 at   and Vengara regions of Malappuram district turned violent on Friday. Eleven people, including women, were injured when police resorted to lathi charge to disperse the protesters who blocked the survey on the   stretch of the highway. As many as 20 policemen also were injured in the incident.

 After stones were pelted at police, who were deployed for the protection of the survey team, the cops raided houses, which led to a clash between police and local residents.
 
  
 A girl among the protesters fell unconscious and the local residents blocked the highway for more than three hours. Police also fired smoke grenades to disperse the agitated protesters. The authorities have decided to stop the survey in Areethode region until April 11.
 
  are planning to acquire a total of 243.9 hectares in 24 villages for the development of the 76.6km highway stretch.
 
 A team of revenue officials led by deputy collector J O Arun began the survey process from   on March 19 amid strong protest from land owners. However, the survey went on smoothly with tight police security. But the officials faced stiff opposition when they began survey on the densely populated areas of Areethode near AR Nagar.
 
 The NH action council has alleged that revenue authorities have changed the alignment of the highway at Areethode without holding discussions with land owners.
 
 “As per the new alignment, more than 30 houses have to be demolished. We suspect that the authorities decided to change the alignment to avoid acquisition of land owned by a senior political leader in the area,” said Abullail Thenhipalam, convenor of the action council.
 
 The deputy collector said the revenue officials realigned the NH stretch in Areethode to protect a temple and a mosque. “If we stick on to the new alignment we will have to demolish 32 houses. The other option is to demolish a temple and a mosque. The minister has directed panchayat authorities and the local MLA to arrive at a final decision. We are ready to opt for any one of these alignments,” he said. The officials completed survey of a distance of 3.25km on Friday and will continue the survey on other areas on Saturday.
 
 “Our party had earlier demanded the state government to change the alignment in densely populated areas. It was the lackadaisical approach of government towards the issue that worsened the situation,” P K Kunhalikkuty MP said.   also condemned the police action against the protesters at AR Nagar.
 
