KOLKATA: A fire at the first-floor outpatients’ department of   led to panic on Tuesday evening after dense smoke engulfed several floors. Patients, doctors and hospital staff rushed down the staircases, causing a stampede-like situation. A surgery was reportedly stalled and the patient shifted to the ICU. The hospital, though, denied it, claiming that the flames were doused in 10 minutes. No injury was reported. 

 Around 6pm on Tuesday, smoke started billowing out of the first-floor  , which was shut. A battery at the   section of the ophthalmology department was found in flames around 6.10pm. The resultant smoke wafted upto the upper floors leading to a panic. At least two surgeries on the second floor had just concluded, but a third one was still on. The smoke had spread up to the ninth floor by then. The fire department received the fire call around 6.30pm. 
 
 Doctors, patients and hospital staff scampered down the stairs as the elevators were shut. Some patients’ kin tried to force back into the wards to check on their relatives. Amid the confusion, hospital authorities brought some patients down to the ground floor. Two patients, who had rushed out of their beds in panic on seeing the smoke, went missing for about 30 minutes. They were later located on the ground floor.
 
  
  
 
 “I rushed back to the ward on the 9th floor where my daughter is admitted. The entire stairway was filled with smoke and the lifts were not working. After 20 minutes, the staff told us that the situation was under control. Some of the relatives went down to the first floor to verify if it was true. Once they verified we were reassured but we are scared till now,” said  . 
 
 CMRI authorities claimed that the fire was a minor one and no patient had to be evacuated or surgery stalled. “There was a minor incident of short circuit in the OPD department. It was quickly brought under control and has not impacted patient service areas. Authorities have taken prompt and appropriate action. There was no need for any patient evacuation. Patients are being monitored and looked after well. Patient families are being kept updated continuously through personal counselling and public address system,” said a statement issued by the hospital.
 
 A hospital spokesperson added that all surgeries were conducted on schedule and at least two were held after the fire. “The surgeries were being held on the second floor, which was unaffected. No procedure had to be stalled or deferred. No patient was evacuated either,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The fire brigade reached the hospital around 6.35pm and swung into action. It broke window panes on the first, second and third floors to vent out the smoke. Firemen praised the hospital staff for their prompt action. “The hospital has adequate fire-fighting arrangements and did well to contain the flames. We broke the window panes to cool the building down and ensure that the smoke gets drained out. A battery had caught fire at the UPS on the first floor,” said  , officer-in-charge (headquarters) of the fire services.
 
 
