BHOPAL: Rebel JD(U) leader   on Sunday sought Modi government's resignation over the alleged multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam and accused the Centre of failing to protect the money of ordinary depositors. “A government is the most powerful entity after God. If it can’t protect public money, who else will? The NDA government at the Centre should resign immediately,” he told reporters here. 

 Alleging that 90-95 per cent of the PNB scam had taken place during the NDA government's tenure, Yadav said diamond merchant Nirav Modi was a hero in the social circles of Delhi. “The present regime claims that the country has become a superpower, but it has failed to bring back   and Vijay Mallya. The banks monitor a loan given to a rickshaw owner with the highest alacrity, but one who owes a loan of Rs 9,000 crore escapes from the country,” he added. 
 
 Claiming that the alleged PNB scam was a result of the Centre's Digital India programme, the JD(U) leader said the NDA government has failed to honour its promises, whether they are related to health, education or employment. “The people had voted the   to power to fulfil the promises made in its manifesto. Instead of fulfilling the promises, BJP spokespersons are saying this was going on since the Congress regime. They had promised two crore jobs, but on the contrary unemployment has increased,” he said.
 
 Targeting the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh, Yadav alleged that chief minister   had destroyed Narmada and Tawa rivers by allowing sand mining on a huge scale. “It is not the chief minister's job to carry out a Narmada Parikrama. On one hand, he is holding a parikrama and on the other he is allowing a plunder of natural resources. “Did they include the parikrama in the party's manifesto during the last election?” Yadav asked, adding that it is the government's responsibility to save the environment. The veteran leader also criticised the Madhya Pradesh government's Bhavantar Yojana, saying farmers should be paid the minimum support price (MSP) and not the difference of the MSP and the model price (average market price for a particular commodity over a particular period) as was being done under the scheme.
 
 Replying to a question, Yadav said Bihar chief minister and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar had deceived 11 crore people of the state by joining hands with those against whom he had contested the assembly election. 
 
 
