DEHRADUN: A team of doctors at a hospital here accomplished a rare surgical feat when they reattached the index finger of an 8-year-old boy which was severed in a fodder chopping machine. The doctors said that it was “a rare and challenging surgery” which lasted for seven hours on May 18. They declared the   a success on Friday after the boy, Shaurya Singh, felt sensation in the finger.
 
  Shaurya’s father  , a taxi driver, told TOI: “On the morning of May 18, my son’s finger got stuck in the fodder cutting machine kept on the terrace of our house in Rishikesh. Within seconds the finger was separated from his hand.”
  
  The family rushed Shaurya, along with the chopped finger, to a nearby hospital, which in turn referred him to Dehradun. In the state capital, Singh admitted his son to a private hospital at Haridwar Road, but not before being rejected by two other facilities.
  
  Plastic surgeon Harish Ghildiyal and his team took up the case and immediately started the operation. The re-plantation surgery started at 10:30pm and went on till 5:30am.
  
  Doctor Ghildiyal said that it was an “extremely complicated surgery” because a small portion of the index finger was severed in the incident.
  
  “Replanting the severed finger at the terminal level is quite challenging as the diameter of the blood vessels to be joined is less that .5mm,” said the plastic surgeon. The team of doctors worked under the microscope for seven hours to make the surgery a success. We ensured that re-plantation was done properly and the finger did not lose sensitivity,” he said.
  
  The surgeon said that this was the first case in which he and his team had replanted a completely severed body part.
  
  Doctor Ghildiyal also emphasised on generating awareness on the preservation of amputated parts while the victim is being brought to hospital.
  
  “Usually, people are not aware of the process and they make the matter more complex. The amputated part should be wrapped in a clean cloth and then placed in a plastic bag and sealed. After that, the plastic bag should be kept in ice. Time of reaching hospital makes a lot of difference, therefore the severed part needs to be brought to the hospital at the earliest,” said Dr Ghildiyal.
