Chandigarh: While seeking special category status for Punjab for restoration the 90:10 sharing pattern for centrally sponsored schemes, chief minister Amarinder Singh made a case for central assistance for groundwater conservation and expediting execution of PGIMER’s satellite centre at Ferozepur.

 At a meeting with NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar on Thursday, Amarinder reiterated the state’s demand for central assistance in key areas of development, including special package for border areas and river protection along the border, in the interest of national security.
 
 Describing the meeting as a preliminary one, an official spokesperson later said that the chief minister underlined the need for differential treatment for Punjab in view of its active border, with a hostile neighbour, and its dense population. Pointing out that the sharing pattern for Punjab had been changed to 50:50; Amarinder called for it to be restored to the original 90:10, which is now applicable only to special category states. In this context, he called for inclusion of Punjab in the list of special category states, on account of its volatile border.
 
 Amarinder also raised the issue of central support for farm loan waiver for Punjab farmers and financial assistance to check burning of crop residue, while seeking a special package for modernization of irrigation infrastructure, in order to promote sustainable agriculture in the state.
 
 He underlined the need for central assistance in conservation and more efficient use of groundwater, which is fast depleting, leading to critical shortage of water for irrigation purposes in the state.
 
 The issue of execution of the much-delayed PGIMER satellite centre project at Ferozepur was also raised by Amarinder during the meeting. Sanctioned more than four years ago, the project is yet to take off, depriving the people of the region of some much-needed medical facilities, he told Kumar.
 
 Amarinder also sought the central government’s support for rural water supply scheme under MGNREGA to help the state government fast-track the supply of the critical resource to the villages.
 
 Amarinder’s list of demands from NITI Aayog
 
 — Special category status for Punjab
 
 — Restoration the 90:10 sharing for centrally-sponsored schemes
 
 — Central assistance for groundwater conservation
 
 — Execution of PGIMER’s satellite centre at Ferozepur
 
 — Special package for border areas and river protection along the border
 
 — Central support for farm loan waiver for Punjab farmers
 
 — Financial assistance to check burning of crop residue
 
 — Special package for modernization of irrigation infrastructure
 
 Doubling farmers’ income our agenda: Aayog 
 
 On the issue of doubling farmers’ income by 2022, later interacting with the media, the NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar said, “We are about to identify four or five most high priority areas on which NITI Aayog will work with the Punjab government to draw an action plan that we can deliver in the next two to three years. It will effectively contribute towards doubling farmers’ income.”
 
 He said that the Prime Minister had asked the NITI Aayog to come up with a scheme for doubling the farmers’ income. He emphasized that their main focus would be on as to how the input cost of farmers can be reduced and how can the governments take over their risks. The Aayog will also give attention to diversifying farmers’ production so that they get transferred to production of high value crops by value addition and could develop better relations with the market, said Kumar.
 
 Kumar, however, clarified in Thursday’s meeting, the Punjab government did not raise issues with regard to increase in the borrowing limit under Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003, repayment of Rs 31,000 crore cash credit limit debt given by the central government to Punjab to buy foodgrain and and Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal.
 
 He also said, “Yojana Aayog was a failed organization. They used to frame policies for all the states by sitting at Delhi. These policies cannot be successful.” He added after coming up of the NITI Aayog, it was for the first time that he had been visiting capital cities of various states to meet chief ministers. Whereas, earlier chief ministers used to visit Delhi. “Our aim is to come up with a different agenda for every state. This is the main change,” said Kumar.
 
 
