NEW DELHI: Former India captain Sourav Ganguly believes that Virat Kohli’s form with the bat in   will be the key for the team to put up a stern challenge against the World No. 2 Test side South Africa. The first Test starts Friday at Newlands and accordingly to Ganguly, it will be important for the Indian skipper to strike a balance as leader and batsman. 

 “It’s the start of Virat Kohli’s first away series, and a tough one at that to South Africa,” wrote Ganguly in his column for 
 . “Virat’s form will be very important for the side. It is his first tour to South Africa as captain and it will be very important for him to strike a balance as skipper and a batsman. His form as captain in the two previous instances in Adelaide and Sydney were brilliant and hopefully those memories will remain fresh for him and help him."
 
 Kohli, in two Tests in South Africa, has 272 runs with scores of 119 and 96 in one drawn Test.
 
 Ganguly also pointed out that maintaining the momentum of a very successful 2017 early in the series will also be a key factor in tough away conditions. “India have had a phenomenal year in 2017 and they will be looking to continue that momentum. One must also understand that it will be a totally different kettle of fish to playing at home, but I believe that this team has the ability to make a difference,” wrote Ganguly.
 
 India are travelling to South Africa with one of their best ever fast bowling attacks, and Ganguly feels finding the right combination with the addition of Hardik Pandya would be the best bet for India to take 20 wickets. “It will be important for India to get their combination right and I would want Hardik Pandya to play. It will give them the option of five bowlers which will be important if they want to pick 20 wickets. With Pandya, Wriddhiman Saha and R Ashwin, who are capable with the bat, and Bhuvneshwar as well, it is a chance worth taking. The first Test of a series is very important and the length of the bowlers will be vital. They will need to bowl full to make sure that the ball is hitting the stumps," he wrote. 
 
 On the offspinner Ravichandran Ashwin’s less than flattering away record, the former opener opined that a good performance in South Africa will be the perfect reply for his detractors. “It will also be an important series for Ashwin, He is at a juncture where he needs to remind everyone that he is still as good as the next bowler and a good performance in South Africa will clear all questions. What he must remember is that you cannot pick 300 wickets if you are not good enough," wrote Ganguly. 
 
 
