CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of   ( ) organised a meeting on the deteriorating conditions of the government schools in Chandigarh. The meeting was attended by superintendent engineer, SDO on behalf of chief engineer, UT administration. On behalf of the education department, Chandigarh, Renu Puri, deputy district education officer, attended the meeting. 

 The officers of the engineering department apprised the commission that they have not received the inspection report from the education department so far, which will enable them to take necessary action. Renu Puri, deputy DEO, said the inspection report will be sent to the engineering department shortly.
 
 The commission decided to issue a recommendation to the education department to provide inspection report of all the schools regarding the 'deteriorated conditions of government schools in Chandigarh'. Thereafter, the commission will ask for the 'action taken report' from the engineering department.
 
 The commission also conducted an enquiry regarding a five-year-old kid who received stitches in the thumb after it got caught in the door that shut due to strong winds. The commission decided in its enquiry that every school must provide a safe and secure environment to every child in school and personal care and attention for the victim child. The commission said the school will bear and reimburse the medical expenses and compensate the family of the victim, said  , chairperson of the commission.
 
 Kaur said that another complaint against KB DAV School in Sector 7 (under Saral Ehsas), Chandigarh, has been received from the parents of the children namely Rukhsana, Shahna, Master Anmol, Master Brijesh of Class IX (2017-18) regarding discrepancy in the annual result of the school.
 
 "The commission has decided in its enquiry that the management of KB DAV School and parents be directed to resolve the issue amicably. The management needs to consult the parents. The school has agreed to provide support to the children so that they can continue their study," she said.
 
 
