Visakhapatnam: Krishna and Raju are the star attractions at the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park here. Visitors are often overawed by the mammoth size of the gentle giants. But, the story doesn’t end here. Both the elephants are chained 24/7, much to the chagrin of wildlife enthusiasts.

 What is appalling to witness is the fact that unlike other elephants kept in captivity in zoos across the country, both Krishna and Raju are chained always. While pleas to set them free are getting louder, elephant lover Padamavati Dwivedi along with some petitioners launched a campaign by collecting 9,700 signatures to unshackle the tuskers in their enclosures.
 
 “For no reason, Krishna has been imprisoned for so long. There isn’t a single day when he is free of chains. The plight of Raju is no different,” a petitioner and frequent visitor to the zoo rued. Under a notifcation issued by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), all captive elephants in zoos should be allowed to move around freely in their enclosures and that they should not be chained. “The friendly giants are traumatised because they are chained always. Harsh measures like these are a no-no,” an animal lover said.
 
 Krishna and Raju were rescued from the forests of north Andhra, zoo officials said. “These elephants were captured from the wild. But today, they are leading a stressful life which is cruel,” said Dwivedi. He urged CZA to take immediate action and set Krishna and Raju free. 
 
 When contacted, zoo curator B Vijaya Kumar said: “We are fulfilling all the criteria laid down by CZA in the zoo for the safety of animals. We chain the elephants only during the ‘musth’ period as they tend to be aggressive. Imagine a scenario where the elephants are coming at each other which is terrifying. We are taking precautions only for the safety of visitors.”
 
 There’s no question that male elephants can be aggressive and hormone-driven killers. Male Asian elephants regularly enter a state called ‘musth,’ in which their urge to mate goes into overdrive and they become very aggressive. 
 
 During musth, males are flooded with up to 10 times as much testosterone as usual and have swollen temporal glands. “They are also extremely aggressive and discharge an almost continuous dribble of urine that creates a scent trail as they walk,” a zoo official said. 
 
 Zoos maintain extremely strong enclosures to isolate males during musth. Most of the male elephants spend a lot of time hanging out. But, the Indira Gandhi Zoo’s elephant enclosure is just 10 acres, which is not even one per cent of the territory of a wild elephant. 
 
 “Obviously, the authorities need to look at providing a much larger enclosures for the male tuskers to move about and satiate their elephantine appetite,” a wildlife enthusiast said.
 
 
