NEW DELHI: Admission to nursery, KG and Class I in   (SV) have been notified by Delhi government and forms will be available from March 3 to 17. However, in case seats remain vacant, admissions will remain open throughout the year.

 Applicants living in close vicinity (1km) of the school will be preferred for admission, but those in a 3km-radius will also be accepted.
 
  
  
 
  “If the number of applicants is not adequate, then children residing beyond 3km can be enrolled,” reads a circular released by the   (DoE) on Monday. 
 
 The nursery classes will begin from April 2.
 
 The DoE circular mentions that applicants will have to be at least three years of age and below four years to be admitted to nursery, 4-5 years for KG and 5-6 years for Class I.
 
 A similar upper age limit will be applied to nursery classes of private recognised schools starting the 2018-19 academic session. Currently, there is no age bar. 
 
 “Older children have to be given admission in age appropriate classes,” the circular adds.
 
 Selection of candidates will be done through a draw of lots. However, if the number of applicants does not exceed the number of seats, then no draw of lots will be conducted.
 
 The forms will be available free of cost on the DoE website as well as the school gates. Students who are unable to furnish essential documents at the time of admission will be given 30 days provisional admission on the basis of an undertaking on plain paper by the parents/guardians. 
 
 Details of such children will have to be furnished to Cluster Resource Coordinators (CRCs).
 
 The government has reserved 27.5% seats for SC/ST/handicapped/DoE employee wards. 
 
 “In case there are no reserved category candidates, the vacant seats will be given to others on the waiting list,” the circular reads.
 
 Last year, Delhi government had announced the plan to start its own nursery classes in its 442 Sarvodaya schools, even where KG classes were in progress. Each SV will have 1-2 sections of 40 students each in nursery, KG and Class I.
 
 
