NAGPUR: At a time when Maharashtra has lost 17 sqkm of forest cover, misuse of forest and revenue land by the country’s third-biggest power plant, owned by   in Tiroda in   district, has come to fore.

 In 2014, the Adani Power Maharashtra Limited (APML) was allotted 164 hectare prime forest land, by the state government after following all procedures, for the expansion of the power plant. Wildlife experts had opposed this move as the APML was less than 10 kms from the boundary of Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary. 
 
 Out of the 164 hectare, 15 hectare was allotted for a railway siding, which was in contravention of rules. The remaining 149 hectare forest land, meant for plant expansion, was given in 2016 a year after APML had completed expansion work. A hi-tech ash dyke is now being built on the allotted forest land without the mandatory environment clearance.
 
 The APML is also dumping ash on the 110 hectare land procured from MIDC for constructing a 6 metric tonnes per annum (MTPA) cement plant. The APML plant and the MIDC land are 1.5 kms from each other. While procuring this land, the directorate of industries in its order on November 4, 2010, had strictly said that the land sought for the cement plant should not be used for any other purpose.
 
 However, even after 7 years the cement plant is not in place and every day over 20,000 tonnes of poisonous ash is being dumped at both the spots — at the ash dyke on forest land just outside the APML plant as well as the MIDC plot. Experts say this is a huge health and environment hazard for nearby villages.
 
 Interestingly, on April 22, 2010, the MoEFCC while granting expansion of the plant from 1320MW to 3300MW had directed that all the fly ash be used in the cement plant from the fourth year of its operation. But the cement plant is only on paper.
 
 MPCB regional officer Rahul Wankhede admits that not constructing cement plant is violation of conditions. Its Gondia sub-divisional officer AN   says Adani has violated environmental norms too. “We have issued notices to APML and recently issued a warning to it,” said Katole.
 
 On January 18, TOI emailed queries to Adani’s associate vice-president (corporate communications) Roy Paul. Around 10 days ago, he called to say that the Adani Power CEO had not given him any replies.
 
 In February 2017, Adani was allotted another chunk of 142 hectare forest land by the MoEFCC at two villages adjoining the plant for an ash park. A site inspection report by the then deputy conservator of forests (DyCF)   recommended the proposal saying the proposed land was outside the buffer zone of NNTR and “it was difficult to manage”. The land has not been handed over to Adani yet.
 
 Environmentalist Pushp Jain says developing an ash park is a non-site specific activity. “The thumb rule is that forest land should not be diverted for non-site specific activity,” he said.
 
 The forest land was cleared by FAC even though 400 acres of private land was available in Mendhipur village. The farmers, fed up with the dust and pollution, were even ready to sell it. 
 
 Gondia DyCF Yuvraj S said if he will verify if land allotted for expansion is being used for some other purpose. MIDC regional officer Jagdish Sangitrao was not aware whether the 110 land was being misused. 
 
 Former National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) member Kishor Rithe said, “This is simply illegal and unethical. Action should be taken against APML.” 
 
 “On one hand, the government is planting 50 crore trees to increase green cover and, on the other, Adani is blatantly misusing forest land,” said conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar.
 
 According to the greens, what Adani has done is “land grab”. 
 
 Chandrapur honorary warden Bandu Dhotre said when tigers in Vidarbha are already crying for space, industries should use “private land instead of forest areas”.
 
 
