NEW DELHI: Countering the view of the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) that “Class X examination is essentially a gateway for Class XI,” students and parents are now questioning the very basis of making the exam mandatory from 2018 once again. 

 A day after CBSE decided against holding a   for Class X maths paper, students wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, stating that “this decision has killed all our hopes for justice and faith in the entire educational system”.
 
 Parents also questioned the logic of the CBSE stating that if the Class XII economics paper — which got leaked one and half hour before the paper (according to the board) — could reach all over India; how could “the alleged   (of maths paper) remain confined to a few alleged beneficiaries” after it was leaked on social media at least a day before. Retest for the economics paper will be held on April 25.
 
 In her letter to the PM, Maanya, a Class X student of a south Delhi school, rued that the decision of not holding a retest is a big disappointment. “Sir, all of us are aware that the paper got leaked and thousands of students had access to it two days before the exam. Those scammers will be able to score perfect 100 with such ease, whereas sincere students work hard throughout the year to get that score. Please tell me which marksheet will be able to differentiate between the perfect 100 of those thousands of wrongdoers and the hardworking ones?”
 
 Requesting for a re-exam, Maanya said: “If a retest is not held then thousands of hardworking students will lose faith in examination system of the country.”
 
 On March 28, immediately after the Class X maths paper, CBSE issued a statement saying, “The board has decided to reconduct the maths test of Class X in view of the information received about likelihood of the exam having been compromised.”
 
 Claiming that the flip-flop of CBSE’s stand has worsened the situation, Pratibha Agrawal, a parent, said: “The probe instead of being aggressive is getting regressive and seems more of a face saving exercise — shielding the culprits.” 
 
 Questioning the logic behind not holding maths retest, Agrawal said, ““By what logic the economics paper travelled all over India in 90 minutes and the maths paper travelled only to Delhi and Haryana?”
 
 Yogesh Jaju, another parent, in his letter to the ministry of human resource development, wrote: “This re-exam fiasco will remain in the memory of lakhs of innocent children as a painful experience at the end of their school life.”
 
