NEW DELHI:   Rail Corporation had planned to start work on the   of the urban railway network in 2017 but didn’t receive the final approval of Delhi government. Now, with the first two months of 2018 also gone,   is looking at a crisis if the expansion work doesn’t start soon.

 Contractors engaged for the construction work of Phase III are on the final stretch and will soon wind up their machinery and workforce. If there is a delay in starting work on Phase IV, it would mean mobilising workers and machinery afresh, and this could add to the delay.
 
 Delhi government approved in principle Phase IV, with a total length of 104 km and at cost of Rs 55,208 crore, in January 2017, but delayed the final approval and financial commitment. With the Aam Aadmi Party government wrangling with the Centre throughout 2017 over various issues, including the hike fare, the delay only worsened. The state and central governments have a 50:50 equity sharing model in DMRC.
 
 Procedurally, DMRC submits the detailed project report to Delhi government, which then gives its approval and financial commitment for the project. The centre gives its go-ahead only after the final approval of the state government. Only then does DMRC commence construction work. This funding pattern has been followed for Phases I, II and III.
 
 However, the issue of funding for Phase IV created a hurdle with Delhi government seeking an exemption from paying its share of ‘subordinate debt’ for central taxes. The subordinate debt is a component of the total share to be paid by the state government when both the centre and Delhi government pay an equal share as equity. After the centre refused to provide the exemption, the state government had then said that the issue would not come in the way of Delhi Metro’s work and had taken an in-principle stand on the matter.
 
 Then, Delhi government asked for GST implications on the funding from the train company, which DMRC claims to have submitted. The government claimed the file had gone back to the Union urban development ministry for GST calculations and hadn’t come back to it yet.
 
 To save time, DMRC has started advanced work for Phase IV that doesn’t involve construction. It has floated tenders to engage a detail design consultant (DDC) for civil, architectural and building services for some corridors of Phase IV. Construction work, however, will commence only on the company receiving the approval and sanctions of the state government.
 
 DMRC recently wrote to the governments at the state and centre, requesting approval of three out of six proposed corridors of Phase IV so that it could begin work. The three priority corridors — Janakpuri West to R K Ashram, Maujpur to Mukundpur and Aerocity to Tughlakabad — have a combined length of 61.66 km, more than half the 104 km of the proposed Phase IV length. DMRC sources estimated the cost of constructing these corridors at Rs 29,000 crore.
 
 
