Coimbatore: The long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax could end up hurting non-residents and foreign investors more as the budget has disallowed the conversion of the sale proceeds into Indian currency before computing the gains for calculating the levy. Such conversion was allowed earlier under a provison of Section 48 of the Income Tax Act. This allowed taxation of capital gains after providing for any losses or gains from the changes in the value of the currency. Disallowing the conversion would be a big dampener for foreign investors in Indian markets as the Indian rupee is not fully convertible and has limited hedging options.

 The conversion was done only for assessing the gains for taxation and under the condition that the same foreign currency should be used for repatriating the funds. “Provided that in the case of an assessee, who is a non-resident, capital gains arising from the transfer of a capital asset being shares in an Indian company shall be computed by converting the cost of acquisition, expenditure incurred and the full value of the consideration received or accruing as a result of the transfer of the capital asset into the same foreign currency as was initially utilised,” provision said.
 
 “And the capital gains so computed in such foreign currency shall be reconverted into Indian currency,” it said. “The conversion of Indian currency into foreign currency and the reconversion of foreign currency into Indian currency shall be at the rate of exchange prescribed in this behalf,” the provision read.
 
 The finance bill, however, has done away with this provision. “The capital gains under sub-section (1) shall be computed without giving effect to the provisions of the first and second provisos to section 48,” the bill stated.
 
 “It would impact inflows and would be perceived negatively by overseas investors,” said Dhiraj Relli, managing director (MD) and CEO, HDFC Securities. “It would discourage NRIs from directly investing in Indian markets. They would rather invest through offshore funds and ‘Emerging India’ funds,” he said. “The government will benefit (in the form of higher taxes) if it is a long-term investment of say more than two years,” said G Chokkalingam, founder and MD, Equinomics Research and Advisory.
 
 
