GURUGRAM: Four masked men ransacked a house in   on Tuesday afternoon after holding a 29-year-old woman hostage at gunpoint and robbed her of cash and jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh. 

 Shelly   (29), who is a homeopathy doctor, told cops that five months ago they shifted to house number 673 in Sector 47. She was staying there with her husband   and 3-year-old son. The family had rented out the 2nd floor of the building. 
 
 “Around 1.30pm, I put my son to sleep and had gone to the store room to get white cement to fill a hole in our bedroom wall left open following the installation of an AC. The store room is in the third floor of the building. While climbing the stairs, I found two masked men standing near the second floor flat. They started enquiring about my tenant but when I cross questioned them, one of them took out a gun, overpowered me and dragged me to my first floor flat,” Tevtia said.
 
 The duo were soon joined by two other masked men inside the victim’s house. Tevtia pleaded the accused to take what they wanted to but to not harm her or her son. “I willingly gave them the almirah keys so that they didn’t attack us. One of the men asked me to hand over the jewellery I was wearing while the others ransacked the house. They took jewellery worth Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5,000 cash,” the woman said. 
 
 Before leaving, the accused sprayed some chemical to sedate the woman so that she could not raise an alarm. 
 
 The second floor tenant saw the men rushing out of the house and fleeing in a Santro. She informed the RWA members, who then reached the spot and informed the cops. An FIR was registered against the men under sections 392 (robbery), 34 (common intention), 452 (house trespassing), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Sadar police station. “This is the first robbery committed inside the sector. We would request cops to increase police patrolling in this area so that such incidents are not repeated,” said  , former RWA president. Tevtia told cops that the robbers seemed to be educated as they not only came with masks on their faces but also had their shoes covered with polythene to avoid leaving footprints. 
 
 Apparently one of the accused also told the others to leave the woman’s phone behind as the cops would be able to trace them by tracking the phone number. 
 
 “My wife’s presence of mind saved her and our son’s life. Thank God that my son was sleeping at that time else he would have been traumatised,” said Prashant, who is a petroleum engineer working with an MNC. 
 
 
