I don’t want my daughter to grow up and become a sugarcane juice vendor like me. We want her to have a better life and that is why we are doing all it takes to educate her,” says an emotional  , the proud mother of  , who secured a staggering 9.5 GPA in the recently-announced   exam results. 

 Durga, who helps out at the sugarcane juice stall now that it’s summer holidays, wears a rather stoic expression. But the minute her father, Babu Rao, heaps praises on her, her face breaks into a dimpled smile. “My Durga was just in Class I when she got home her first gold medal. I can’t remember for what that was, but ever since she has always been a class topper. I’m really proud of her,” gushes a moist-eyed Babu Rao, who runs a pan shop near the BSNL office at Paradise junction, 
 
 Durga Bhavani credits her parents for her success. “I just have one mission in life: to study really, really hard and make my parents proud. They have struggled all their lives to support my education and the least I can do is put in my best. I’m really happy with my marks,” says the student of Government Girls High School, West Marredpally. 
 
 The family of four, live in a makeshift single room dwelling made of muti-coloured plastic sheets, in Rasoolpura. half the room is filled up with utensils, their limited household items and books of Durga and her little brother. A make-shift wooden cot takes up the rest of the space. Outside their room, lie a dozen plastic water drums. “We get water supply once in four days, so we store all the water we can,” explains Durga.
 Making ends meet has always been a struggle for the family. “We earn Rs 10,000 a month, out of which we need to pay Rs 3,000 as rent. the remaining money is barely enough to cover the children’s educational needs and our expenses,” rues Usha.
 
 Babu Rao nods grimly: “Things were better two years ago. I used to work at a printing press in the night, and run the paan shop at day. But since the press shifted to Andhra, so I lost my job. Now, i’m dependent on the paan shop and juice stall, but it’s never enough.” Usha adds, “Initially we admitted them in a private school, but as our financial situation got worse we had no option but to put them in a government school.”
 
 Durga, however, is determined to turn her family’s fortunes around. “The only way out of this poverty is through education. I will work as hard as I can to help my parents lead a more comfortable life when I grow up,” says the 15-year-old, who has secured a free seat in Sri Chaitanya Junior College. All set to take up MEC (Maths Economics Commerce) in Intermediate, her dream is to become an   officer. “I want to make a difference in the society by eliminating corruption,” she says, signing off.
 
