AHMEDABAD: In a relief for private school managements, the   on Monday stayed the state government from taking any action till February 1 against schools who have not submitted proposals to the   ( ).

 The apex court has granted protection for at least two weeks to the school managements who are fighting against the state government’s intervention in fixing their fees. Most of the schools which had approached   high court challenging the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act, have not submitted their proposals to the FRCs to justify fees charged above the prescribed caps – Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 27,000 for primary, secondary and higher secondary schools, respectively.
 
 After the high court declined all petitions challenging the fee regulation law, the state government had set January 17 as the deadline for all schools to submit proposals for fixing their fees. As the school managements challenged the HC order before the SC, a bench of Justice S A Bobde and Justice L Nageswara Rao granted interim relief to private schools in submitting proposals till the next date of hearing, said advocate Nikunt Rawal. While the SC allowed FRCs to go ahead with processing proposals for fee evaluation by schools that have already submitted them, it has asked the government not to take “coercive action” against schools which have not submitted papers. The interim stay granted earlier by the HC will continue. 
 
 The main objection to the state government’s law is from schools affiliated to central and international boards as well as from schools run by minority institutions, both religious and linguistic. The HC overruled their objections and upheld the law saying that it is a reasonable restriction against profiteering.
 
 Meanwhile, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama stated that the SC has not stayed the government’s decision. He has demanded clarification from the Congress accusing it of cheating parents because its leaders and senior lawyers Kapil Sibal and   appeared for the school managements.
 
 
