CHANDIGARH: Motorcyclists have earned most of their traffic tickets in the city for blaring pressure horns and making the popping noise of engine backfire around colleges, university, and paying-guest accommodations.

  
  
 
 Pressure from the   and Haryana high court has forced the traffic police to penalise 431   between January 2017 and this March. Of these traffic tickets, 336 were for using pressure horn and modified silencers. The offenders were caught in Sectors 11 and 15, besides  , and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which suggests that most of them were young. The noisy machines were Enfield Bullet mostly.
 
 For modified silencers, pressure horns, and playing loud music, police fined 59 motorcyclists and car owners in Sector 26, which is an area of colleges, discotheques, and restaurants. Traffic police are in a special campaign against Bullet motorcycles with modified silencers. For this, they have fined 241 riders in 2017 and 190 in the first three months of this year. For using pressure horn, they also caught 69 motorists in 2017, and 72, so far in 2018. The traffic police have recommended tripling the fine for noise pollution and raising subsequent-offence penalty to Rs 3,000 from Rs 1,000 and Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000. They have requested the residents to post the videos of these violators on Facebook and WhatsApp. 
 
 
 
 The traffic police had issued 778 fines last year for noise pollution. Most of these were for motorcycles fitted with modified silencers and pressure horns, and loud music out of car stereo. This year, 690 bikers have been fined till March 31 and 71 motorcycles with modified silencers impounded.
 
 Traffic police have also started telling spare-part dealers and automobile mechanics not to modify motorcycles for producing a loud, popping sound. Cops had also written to the senior superintendents of police of the neighboring Mohali and Ropar for a check on the mechanics, since most of the noise-making motorcycles caught in Chandigarh had been modified in these Punjab towns.
 
 A Chandigarh resident had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court that more and more people continued to remove or modify the silencers of their motorcycles to produce a popping noise that distracted, scared, and annoyed other drivers.
 
 The petitioner reported the rampant use of pressure horns, too.
 
 
