PIMPRI  : Hundreds of motorists commuting via the busy Pune-Mumbai highway were inconvenienced for three hours due to a massive traffic jam. The clutter was caused after a container truck and goods truck got stuck in the grade separator at Pimpri on Wednesday morning.

 The   (PCMC) has widened the highway stretch passing through the city to 61 meter, comprising a central four-lane corridor and a bus rapid transit (BRT) corridor on either side as well as two service lanes for internal city traffic. In 2007,   constructed a grade separator at Pimpri to enable vehicles to skip the traffic signals at   junction and Ahilyabai Holkar junction. Heavy vehicles with a height of up to 4.5 meter can pass through the grade separator.
 
 PCMC also put up clear notice boards stating that vehicles with a height of 4.5 meter and above should use the grade separator. However, big heavy vehicles venture into the lane and get stuck routinely. 
 
 Wednesday morning’s peak hour traffic snarl affected hundreds of officegoers.
 
 Speaking with TOI, sub-inspector SH Bhagwat of the Pimpri traffic police chowkey said, “As soon as commuters informed the traffic police about the congestion, we rushed to the spot. A rather high container truck had entered the grade separator while travelling from Chinchwad and was stuck at Morwadi. Another goods truck carrying cotton bags was stuck near Kharalwadi on its way to Chinchwad.”
 
 According to the police officer, a lane on each side of the grade separator was closed to vehicular traffic thereby causing the snarl. A team of six traffic police personnel controlled the traffic.
 
 The traffic passing through the concrete lanes towards Chinchwad was diverted from   onto the service road. In the opposite direction, traffic from Chinchwad going toward Nashik Phata was diverted onto the service road from Morwadi. Essentially, increased vehicular traffic on both service lanes led to the tangle. 
 
 The vehicular traffic through all four lanes of the grade separator was stopped for half an hour when cranes were deployed to remove the two trucks.
 
 “We will submit an application to the Pimpri police station to lodge a complaint against the container driver for causing traffic congestion. The container is in our possession currently,” said Bhagwat.
 
 While there is a barricade at Nashik Phata to restrict entry of taller vehicles onto the concrete lanes, there isn’t a similar provision at Morwadi. “We will write to the civic body urging them to install barricades at Morwadi too,” Bhagwat said.
 
 
