COIMBATORE: The civic body has come under fire for releasing the draft delimitation of wards coinciding with the Pongal holidays, allegedly leaving political parties with little time to offer feedback.

 The draft of the delimited wards–100 in the city–was released on Wednesday. Political parties were asked to give their feedback within a week. When they were summoned for an all-party meeting on Thursday to discuss the issue, members of opposition parties sought more time. The representatives from opposition parties said that they needed time to study the draft and present their objections, which could not be done within a week’s time because of the holidays.
 
 Collector TN Hariharan and corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan’s offer of posting staff even during Pongal holidays to receive the objections did not cut ice with the parties.
 
 “There are several aspects that require detailed scrutiny. For instance, there are some wards where localities without geographical connectivity are clubbed together. Also, portions of one ward falls within one assembly constituency, while another portion of the same ward is annexed to another assembly segment,” pointed out a member of a Left party. 
 
 “How can the people could read the draft and find out mistakes or discrepancies, if any, and submit the written feedback immediately,” said DMK functionary from  .
 
 “Though the authorities gave details like the total population of wards as well as details about streets interchanged between the wards in the delimitation draft, street-wise population was not mentioned. Without that information, the draft cannot be assessed properly,” said C Padmanaban of CPM.
 
 “Many wards were interchanged between state assembly constituencies. For instance, many wards in Avarampalayam were transferred to Coimbatore north constituency from Singanallur,” Govindaraj said. The parties also objected to the fact that the draft was given only in English, which cannot be understood by many people. An   functionary told TOI that even ruling party members were not happy with the way the wards were delimited.
 
 Corporation commissioner   told them that the issue would be conveyed to the state delimitation commission and additional time would be sought.
 
 Collector assured that their feedback will be given due consideration and their demands will be accocmodated.
 
 
