PALAKKAD: Vadavannur, a remote village in Chittur taluk, 15km from Palakkad town, is all set to inaugurate the Magora Centre, a first-of-its-kind village story-telling space in memory of legendary actor-turned-politician, Maruthur Gopalamenon Ramachandran, popularly known as 'MGR'. The inauguration is on Saturday by minister for culture A K Balan. 

 "It is a unique cultural space in the village of MGR. There will be micro museum, performance space, documentation centre, workshops and gallery in the memorial of the iconic leader of the people of   and its former chief minister was born as the second son of Melakkath Gopala Menon and Maruthur Sathyabhama of Vadavannur," said  , regional co-ordinator of INTACH.
 
 The memorial will become a platform for a host of creative expressions, performances and conservation, he said.Palakkad has produced some of the greatest film personalities like K S Sethumadhavan, M S  , M T   and P Leela, Carnatic musicians like Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar, Palakkad Mani Iyer, M D Ramanathan and many others.MGR was the most popular as an actor, politician, humanist, nick-named 'Makkal Thilakam'.
 
 His birth centenary was celebrated in January last year in a fitting manner at Vadavannur.
 
 The ancestral house of MGR's mother Sathyabhama, named 'Sathyavilasom', is visited by a large number of MGR fans from Tamil Nadu.
 
 Though MGR was born in Sri Lanka, his father Maruthur Gopalamenon from nearby Nalleppilly village returned to Vadavannur after his retirement as magistrate of   in Sri Lanka and stayed for some time in his ancestral house.
 
 After his death, MGR 's mother left with her another famous actor son M G Chakrapani to live with her elder brother at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district.
 
 While living there, both the brothers entered the film world.MGR had married from Kuzhalmannam in Palakkad district. His first wife was Ammukutty alias Sadanandavathy, daughter of   and Mokambika Amma.
 
 After her death, MGR married actress Janaki. In fact, some of the relatives of Janaki had married from Vadavannur.
 
 Though the family left Vadavannur, MGR had visited his ancestral house on a number of times even after becoming the chief minister of Tamil Nadu.
 
 MGR maintained close contacts with his relatives and also the relatives of his wife Sadananvathy from  , the old timers of the village remembered.
 
 He used to invite his relatives to his house at Chennai and make them stay there when he was in town.
 
 
