JALANDHAR: Canada’s Conservative Party MP   has alleged that he has come under attack from a few individuals from the Sikh community “in reference to his stance on the unity of India and on the term genocide”. Obhrai’s statement comes a day after Conservative motion on “Khalistani extremism” was put on hold.

 Earlier, the MP had earlier not only announced about the motion but had even given his schedule of speaking on it in the parliament. However, he has now removed his earlier two posts — first announcing about the motion and the other about it being put on hold for at least two weeks. He had faced criticism from some quarters of Canadian Sikhs for his earlier stance on the “genocide motion” passed in the Ontario assembly and the latest episode on the motion added fuel to the fire.
 
 The Conservative motion, put on hold, read, “That the House: (a) values the contributions of Canadian Sikhs and Canadians of Indian origin in our national life; (b)”Condemn in the strongest terms all forms of terrorism, including Khalistani extremism and the glorification of any individuals who have committed acts of violence to advance the cause of an independent Khalistani state in India; and (c) Stand with a united India.”
 
 In his latest post, the MP wrote: “It is very important to respect the difference of opinions and not go for personal attacks. I have been a strong supporter of the Sikh community and have always advocated for their success….My electoral success has been based on the support from all communities, including the Sikh community…I point to the case of   who lives outside my riding, who came to my office seeking help to get an Indian visa, which I facilitated.”
 
 “As such, any person who attacks me on this issue of being anti-Sikh can expect legal action for defamation,” he has warned on his official Facebook page. However his warning has not stopped Sikh netizens from criticizing him.
 
 In April last, Obhrai had disapproved the use of term “genocide” in the motion passed in the Ontario assembly about November 1984 anti-Sikh violence. He had said that this motion would only bring disharmony to the Indo-Canadian community.
 
 
