JAIPUR: City girl  , a resident of Bani Park is among the top three (AIR-3) in CBSE Class XII overall results. Bodhraj scored 99.4% in humanities. She missed the AIR second position by a mark and first position by 2 marks.

 
  
 
 She is among the very few students to have scored 100% marks in four subjects—psychology, geography, history and fine arts while 97 in English. Chahat’s score of 497 was shared by six other students in the country.
 
 Her score could get her admission in the prestigious Delhi University or in Bengaluru but her career path revolves around animation, craft, graphics and posters. She is eyeing to pursue bachelor’s degree in design and communication from Pune. She attributed her career plan to the understanding developed while studying history, geography and psychology.
 
 “It has shaped my mind for a career in design and communication. This (communication) is a very powerful medium which relies on the blend of vast knowledge and creative mind. The critical thinking that I have developed while reading different phases of historical events, culture, traditions and rituals along with reading human mind (psychology) has made by resolve stronger of bringing a positive change in our society,” said an elated Bodhraj.
 
 She argued that all art forms circled around human beings. “My portfolios have strong imprint of bygone eras like old doors, structures, art forms etc which I would like to re-create through my work,” said Bodhraj, who is also interested in reading philosophy. “Indian philosophy is a gateway to understand the multi-cultural world. In the later stage of my life, I would like to read different schools of Indian and western philosophers,” said Bodhraj.
 
 The result came as a surprise for her as she didn’t expect to be in top 10 at national level. “I gave my 100% in every subject and I am very happy with my result ,” said Bodhraj, who remained undeterred by the ups and downs in her life. Born in Dubai, she came to India in 2007 with her parents and elder sister to visit her ailing grandfather for some days. However, destiny had other plans for her. Her grandfather didn’t survive.
 
 “My father passed away after meeting with an accident in 2015. The family broke down completely. It was an irreparable loss for us and put us under deep financial burden. The struggle continues, that is called life,” said Bodhraj.
 
