LUDHIANA: As   continue to reel under heat wave, the city on Saturday recorded the hottest day of May in the last two years at 44.6°C. On May 19, 2016, the day temperature in the city was recorded the same.

 On May 24, 2013, the day temperature in the city was recorded at 46.5 °C. However, it was on May 29, 1944, when the city witnessed a whopping 48.3 °C and recorded an all-time highest day temperature.
 
 As per the Met department, the day temperature in the city on Saturday was recorded at 44.6 °C, which is five degrees more than normal. The Met department officials said hot and dry conditions will continue in the next two days.
 
 Even as the day temperature in the city was recorded high in the last two years, the minimum night temperature was also on a higher side and was recorded at 25.1°C, which is a degree more than normal.
 
 Though the residents battled with intense heat, the Met department officials do not have any good news to share with the residents. The Met department forecast doesn’t predict any immediate respite from heat wave atleast in the coming two days.
 
 “The hot conditions will continue in the city for the next 36-48 hours and during this time, the temperatures might soar. However, on May 29 and May 30, there are chances of light rainfall of about 10 mm. The light showers might bring down the temperature,” said Surender Paul, director, Met department, Chandigarh.
 
 He also has a word of caution for the residents. He asked the residents not to venture out between 12noon -3pm in the next two days and also advised them to take precaution to battle heat.
 
 “The people should prefer not to go out between 12noon-3pm. If there is an urgency, the residents should protect themselves from direct sunlight. People should drink plenty of water to keep themselves hydrated,” said the director. The Met department website predicts night temperature to rise to 26°C till coming Monday.
 
 Meanwhile, the residents are struggling to beat the heat. “I have not experienced such hot weather conditions during the day in May in the last several years. I had to go to meet a client but the moment I stepped out of my office, I was burnt by the heat. I cancelled the meeting,” said  , a businessman from BRS Nagar. 
 
 
