Surat: A BJP leader has written to minister of civil aviation Ashok Gajapathi Raju demanding immediate transfer of joint general manager (civil), Surat airport, Radha Raman Gupta to Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) headquarters in New Delhi because a criminal inquiry was still pending against him for violating the provisions of the Aircraft Act.  Secretary of Rajkot district BJP Girish Parmar has stated in his letter that Gupta as joint general manager (civil) could jeopardize the development works going on at Surat airport. Right to Information (RTI) activist Anwar Umar Jakhiya confirmed a major security breach at Rajkot airport by RR Gupta who went on a joyride in an aircraft of the AAI violating all security rules in 2013.  Gupta, who was then the airport director in Rajkot, boarded the cockpit of King Air (VT-FIU) that had come from Vadodara for calibration of landing systems on July 9, 2013, and allegedly ordered the pilot to fly to coastal areas around Porbandar. The aircraft went out of air traffic control (ATC) radar for around 15 minutes triggering panic among security agencies. A case was filed in Rajkot district court by Jakhiya demanding criminal inquiry against Gupta for violating the Aircraft Act 1934. The court ordered Rajkot police to conduct an inquiry against Gupta in 2015. The AAI described Gupta’s act as irresponsible for boarding the aircraft for personal gain without informing the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel thereby violating the Aircraft Act.  Girish Parmar told TOI, “This officer is facing a criminal inquiry for violation of the Aircraft Act. He had undermined the national security by taking a joyride in the AAI aircraft that went out of the ATC radar for 15 minutes. Despite the criminal offence, the AAI authorities had posted Gupta close to his residence in Vadodara. I have demanded that Gupta should be posted at AAI headquarters in New Delhi so that he works under direct supervision of his seniors.” R R Gupta was not available for his comments. 