Sunday mornings are special for nature lovers of all age and sizes, which includes s tudents, housewives, doctors, artists amongst others . They head to one of the many gardens in the city to join Dr Usha Desai, 79, and  , 62, as they go around on a tree tour, stopping by at one woody member here, a shrub there to impart information or narrate a story about it. The duo started these walks almost eight years back. Armed with charts, papers, seeds and flowers, they have covered almost all the major gardens in the city but their quest for discovering more trees in the green areas of Mumbai remains insatiable.

 On hearing about the trees, its mythological and historical significance and how the ecosystem depends on it, many return home with a completely different perspective about the city’s green treasures.
 
 
  
  
 The walks work on word-of-mouth publicity and posts on social media. The duo never thought of of charging fees at any time. Says Dr Desai, “We are self-sufficient and have a supportive families. Since botany is so rich and informative, we just wanted to spread and share the knowledge with all. This is our way of giving back to the society.” The duo started with taking different courses and doing in-depth research. Says Vyas, who decided to take her fascination for trees seriously when she turned 50, “In the course of our learning, we realised that people are curious about the trees growing in the gardens, but are clueless as there are no nameplates to these trees. So, we did our research and dig out mythological details so that we also had a story to tell. We also keep the session interactive. We conduct a special walk for kids, where we carry seeds and leaves and have different stories to tell them.” The walks have garnered more attention due to the way the duo conduct them. People get to learn not only the scientific aspect of the trees like its name, properties and medicinal uses, but also the mythologies associated with it. 
 
 The duo, who have researched on around 500 trees, are indirectly teaching the art of loving trees and protecting them. “Once they start identifying and knowing more about the tree, they will start loving it. Some like the banyan trees are not of any apparent use to people so they want to cut it, but we tell them that they are important for birds who spread the seeds and it is beneficial for the environment,” says Desai.
 
 
 Among those who frequent their walks are botany students as well as young professionals. Vyas says that colleges ask them to conduct specific walks for students. “Whether it is about the tree, flower or pollination, we also talk technical along with narrating stories related to trees. So, colleges want us to take their students and teachers on field trips to help them understand botany better,” she says.
 Kiran Thumma, who works with an environmental NGO, and Jyoti Desai have been regulars at the walks since they were botany students. Kiran says that they learned more on these walks than in the class. “Now that we are working, it becomes easy for us to explain it to those around us and connect them to nature,” she says.
 
 
 
  
  Maitrayee Singh, an engineer, says the walks have helped her at work. “When it comes to creating designs, nature inspires you. Since I’m planning to do a masters in designing, I joined the group with my parents. The pods, leaves, stems, flowers have helped in designs and innovation. Besides, connecting with nature keeps you healthy,” she says. It’s the same with Daisy Naidu, an artist practicing conceptual art. “Books tell you a lot about plant species and their inter dynamics with nature, but seeing it in reality enhances your knowledge. Mythological connotations with stories built around them adds to the experience and are retained longer,” she shares.
 
 
