NAGPUR: Development of aeronautical sector and its scope in India was the gist of the first day of a three-day national symposium and competition ‘Vaimanika’ organized by the aeronautical engineering department of Priyadarshini College of Engineering in association with Aeronautical Society of India (AESI), Nagpur chapter, at its Hingna facility, on Thursday. 

 ‘Civil and military aircraft MRO and manufacturing’ is the theme of the programme. T  , former additional director of   (GTRE), was the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony.
 
 Union transport minister   and state education minister   will be the chief guests at the valedictory programme to be held on Saturday.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Venkatakrishnaiah said, “The aviation sector has seen a boom in the recent years and with the advancing technology, the need for engineers and experts has increased. Young minds will play an important role in shaping the future and this sector has a wide scope in technology and other fields.” The youths should make every effort to prove themselves in the field in near future, he added.
 
 GD Mehta, convener of the event said, “The branch is growing at an amazing pace and creating awareness about it is essential. Students need to be aware of the scope in the field in terms of research, manufacturing, aircraft and subsequent employment it will generate.”
 
 Former air vice-marshal SC Chafekar, MK Sharma, director and CEO, Bajaj Steel Industries Ltd and RK Shera, chairman, AESI, were the guests of honour while S Padegaonkar, deputy chairman, AESI, was the special guest. Principal MP Singh and vice-principal SA Dhale were present.
 
 More than 800 students participated in the symposium which included paper and model presentation, among other events. Around 67 models related to aeronautics were put on display that showcased various branches in aviation. 
 
 Commenting about the scope of engineering in future, Secretary of AESI, Nagpur chapter, said, “Aeronautics is a very specific field and very few colleges in India provide the graduate programmes in the field, which should be changed and more involvement in the field must be encouraged.” 
 
 
