By: 
  

 Even against cardiologist’s advice, they play this game of suspense with all their heart (even clubs, diamonds, and spades). A long-time bridge enthusiast, Panchkula physician Dr S P Kaushik is hooked to it after retirement. “A regular visit to the Chandigarh Bridge Association (CBA) office at the Sector 42 Hockey Stadium is my oxygen,” he says while holding his cards.
 
 It was a Saturday and the association’s hall was buzzing with activity. The weekend tournament was on and the members, a majority of them retired, were absorbed in its competitive spirit. Businessman N S Brar, who took up bridge for enjoyment during his engineering college days at BITS, Pilani, was also at one of the tables. “To recharge my batteries,” he says.
 
 Members of Chandigarh Bridge Association are into this mental sport since 1989. The 50 members include eight women. They all are passionate about the game and in it to win it, but the competitiveness has never disturbed the venue’s friendly atmosphere.
 
 They play Duplicate, a form of bridge adapted for competitions and the common variant played in clubs and tournaments. It is called Duplicate because the same deal is played at multiple tables and the results of different partnerships playing the same hand are compared.
 
 
 
 
 The start off was not easy. Colonel   (retd), current club secretary, said: “Initially, we were based at the community centre in Sector 16. During those days, we gathered members who played at home. It was sometime in 1994 that we shifted to our current base,” said the colonel, running around to ensure that the weekend tournament runs smooth.
 
 In the early 1990s, when the Bridge Federation of India took interest in training the members of this association, that was the club’s turning point. The initial tournaments were organised at the Sector-16 community centre. Association president H S Dhariwal said: “In 1994, we didn’t have more than seven tables and the tournaments used to be one-day affair. With time, we graduated to hosting nationallevel tournaments.”
 
 
 
 
 The club’s members are former bureaucrats, Army men, businessmen, doctors, and corporate honchos, most of them from Chandigarh, Mohali, and Panchkula. The tournaments on Saturdays and Sundays attract every member. At the six tables for four players each, every contest is keen. “The winners’ prize money is the sum of Rs 100 contribution from each member,” said Colonel Govinder Singh. “The pooled money also pays for refreshments. Every hour, we take a tea break.”
 
 The members reserve their best for the big, monthly tournament against members from the bridge associations of Punjab, Haryana, and  . Nearly 60 players compete for the top award.
 
 The CBA sends teams to the regional tournament in Solan as well, besides organising a three-day national training camp. The Punjab Bridge Association also hosts its tournament at the Sector-42 venue.
 
 Association’s senior member Rajesh Chaddha said: “Our squads go to even national and international tournaments. They are part of several open meets across the globe every year.
 
 
 
 
 Bridge, despite being a popular brain game in circle of friends, unfortunately hasn’t gained the kind of popularity it should have as a sport. Senior players blame it on the lack of interest among youngsters. “The new generation isn’t keen on playing bridge. We did make attempts to promote the game in educational institutes but received only a lukewarm response,” said a senior member of the association.
 
 The CBA, however, isn’t the only home of bridge in the city. The sport is popular even at the Chandigarh Club in Sector 9. “For us, it’s a hobby, not an addiction. As long as money is not involved, the piety of the game is intact,” NS Brar said. Kaushik says that all weekend tournaments are played with the same decks of cards. “We need to replace the decks to compete well in competitions,” he said.
 
 There is unanimity on the notion that once bridge becomes part of the Olympics, it will not look back.
 
