NEW DELHI: India football legend   has advocated the appointment of   club's current coach   as the next coach of the national team. 

 
 The Spaniard signed with Bengaluru FC in 2016 when they were in the I-League and went on to win Federation Cup with the team apart from guiding them to a historic first ever AFC Cup final.
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Bhaihung pointed out Roca's familiarity with Indian football and his tactical nous make him a perfect candidate to succeed current head coach  .
 
 "Bengaluru FC’s Albert Roca is a shrewd tactician, Bhaichung wrote. "This is his second season in Indian football after a memorable first where, apart from winning the Hero Federation Cup, he guided BFC to a historic AFC Cup final, the first-ever for any Indian club."
 
 "Great coaches always have the capability to bring out the best and Roca has been spot on with his signings. Bear in mind that he also steered Bengaluru to the inter-zonal AFC Cup final earlier this season. The fact that he has been able to balance Bengaluru’s hectic schedule is something which makes him stand out. Tactically, he has just been exceptional."
 
 Bhaichung terms Roca as the ideal coach for the future. "With his profound knowledge and experience in Indian football, he is the ideal coach for the Indian football team in future,"
 
 The   (AIFF) is scheduled to meet on February 7 to decide on whether to extend Constantine's contract under whom Indian football team has notched up impressive results and remained unbeaten since March 2016. However, Constantine has reportedly fallen out of favour with certain India players.
 
 Chennaiyin FC’s   and Pune City’s Ranko Popovic have also impressed the former India captain. "Chennaiyin FC’s John Gregory also hasn’t put any foot wrong since his first match when he played three defenders against Goa. His tactical acumen made him understand his error fast and after the first-half, he went back to four defenders, a ploy he has maintained since then," he wrote.
 
 "Pune City’s Ranko Popovic has also been very impressive. For a team which has struggled so far, Popovic has waved his magic wand to perfection. But I feel he needs to calm down a bit."
 
 
