TRICHY: The digital age has made communication of social issues and mobilisation of public support for them easier by leaps and bounds. But time was when the pen reigned supreme for social activists and still continue to do so for some of them. N Ramakrishnan alias   of   is one among them. Till date, the 60-year-old bachelor has written over 6,000 letters and petitions to officials and constitutional functionaries seeking solutions to various social causes.

 A graduate in physics, Kannan has been writing these petitions and letters in his own handwriting for the last 23 years. From the village administrative officer to the Prime Minister and President of India, his letters on a myriad issues have gone to a wide range of officials and dignitaries. 
 
 Kannan’s modus operandi is different in that he attaches clear-cut illustrative and supporting data with his submissions. “I would say persistent campaigning has been my success formula”, says he. “I have written letters for realising various demands for the welfare of Trichy to all levels of officials and even constitutional functionaries like the President of India. I have also got due replies from them. The latest was a letter sent to Prime Minister   appealing to him to safeguard the   from pollution. I pointed out that a large quantum of sewage was being let out at Chinthamani bathing ghat in the city”, he said. Kannan received a reply from the Prime Minister’s Office stating that the letter had been forwarded to the concerned department. “However, I sent another letter to Modi urging him to ensure steps for Cauvery akin to what he was doing for river Ganga”, he added. 
 
 His efforts have reaped success in many issues, he claimed. "Based on a memorandum submitted to the late BJP leader Rangarajan Kumaramangalam - who was then elected as Trichy MP — four road over bridges were constructed. They are all playing a major role in easing traffic congestion in the city as of now,”he says. His repeated efforts also helped stop effluent from a distillery being let into Uyyakondan canal at Ariyamangalam. All these efforts have been made under the banner of ‘well-wishers of Thiruchirappalli city development’ of which he is a member. “We have been struggling to streamline auto fares in the city but are yet to succeed in it. However, we managed to get an auto stand which was fleecing commuters at railway junction shifted", he claimed.
 
 At present, he and his team are working towards the restoration of Pallavan superfast express from Karaikudi to Trichy, he said. Attracted by former chief minister  , he also launched a separate forum called ‘MGR Nalpani Mandram’ and continue to write petitions under its banner. 
 
 “I wish certain things materialised during my lifetime. Cleaning of Cauvery at Chinthamani bathing ghat, integrated bus stand, laying of a road on both sides of Uyyakondan canal with beautification work and a ring road are my dreams”, he said. Being a bachelor activist, Kannan has few worries as his family members are also well settled. “With the help of my family members and friends I hope to continue my work towards the benefit of the general public,” he said.
 
 
