MUMBAI: In a significant order, Bombay high court on Friday stayed the trial of Zabiuddin Ansari in the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks case.

 The Delhi police through DCP, special cell, had moved HC to challenge a recent order of special sessions judge G A Sanap directing them to produce “sensitive documents" during the trial.
 
 The police claimed a right of privilege over these documents under provisions of Indian Evidence Act.
 
 Ansari alias Abu Jundal was arrested on June 21, 2012 by Delhi police. In August that year, Mumbai police got his custody. His case has been pending since 2013 and trial was proceeding on a daily basis. Jundal, who is lodged in   jail, attended court proceedings via video conference.
 
 On March 12, the trial judge directed two officers of the Delhi police to produce their passports. It also asked   to produce its passenger list from a 2012 Damam-New Delhi flight. Secretary, MEA, was directed to produce Ansari’s travel documents of June 2012, while assistant director, Bureau of Immigration, IG International Airport, New Delhi was directed to provide arrival records.
 
 The trial court passed the order after Ansari’s lawyer   sought these documents to help in his defence and cross-examination of witnesses. Ansari has claimed he was taken into custody from Damam, Saudi Arabia, by the Delhi police and brought to India on a Jet flight. He said he was “not loitering’’ outside Delhi airport as contended by Delhi police.
 
 But the Delhi police case is Ansari was arrested outside the Delhi airport when he was entering the country.
 
 On April 2, the trial court, despite privilege claims raised by the union government through special counsel  , directed the court staff to hand over copies of documents submitted by the airline to the defence team. The order prompted the Delhi police to immediately move the HC the same day for a stay. The HC granted a stay on handing over of the documents.
 
 The Delhi police said the trial court order was “patently illegal’’ and “hastily passed”. On Friday, Venegaonkar argued that the trial court had passed its order without even hearing the government authorities or considering the issue of privilege and sensitivity of documents that relate to sovereignty.
 
 Yug Chaudhary, counsel for Ansari, said these documents are vital for the defence of the accused who is facing serious criminal charges that attract capital punishment.
 
 Justice Nitin Sambre directed four other applications to be filed by the other authorities who were directed to produce documents and posted the matter for hearing on June 11.
 
