Nawanshahr: The police here have arrested 20 drivers of tippers that were spotted doing illegal mining on the Satluj bed by chief minister Amarinder Singh while he was flying over Nawanshahr district on Tuesday. Contractors of six mines have also been booked under the provisions of the Mining Act and for theft of natural resources.

 The mining department also found that the most glaring violation at the legally allotted mining sites was that in all cases there was apparent use of mechanical excavators against environment clearance for the sites. The contractors were also mining sand beyond their demarcated limits. The sudden action has also brought to light more glaring violation at Malikpur mining site as in this case the mining licence of the contractor was suspended a month back but still quarrying was continuing. Additional charges have been slapped on the contractor of this mine, Kudratdeep Singh of Ludhiana. He has been booked for cheating and forgery also.
 
 According to the police, 15 tippers were caught from near and from the passage of this mine. However, Kudratdeep said no excavator was found from his site and six tippers found near his site were empty. He claimed that he had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court against suspension of his mining licence and he was given four weeks time to deposit the money and continue with his work.
 
 Nawanshahr SSP Satinder Singh held that the mining department had reported that there was no stay on the suspension order of Kudratdeep’s contract and the mining during this period was illegal. “Fifteen tippers we seized were near this mining site or on the passage of this site,” he said. The report by the mining department after CM’s aerial raid has rather put the department and other officials responsible for checking illegal mining in the dock. According to the report, the entire mining during this period at the site was completely illegal, said an official source.
 
 Mining department’s functional manager Neeraj Thakur confirmed that demarcation of the mining sites had been violated and mining was being done beyond the limits. While mechanical excavation was not allowed at the site, the police on Monday seized 21 excavators from different places around many mining sites. A total 29 tippers have been seized from different sites. The SSP said the contractors would also be summoned now for questioning. “They are already have been named in the FIR,” he added. 
 
 Expose big fish: Drivers’ kin 
 
 When the 20 drivers of tippers were produced in a local court and the judge sent them to judicial custody, their kin and relatives were also present there. “Our men were just getting salaries for driving the tippers. The real culprits are either the contractors or their powerful associates, but none of them has been arrested,” said a relative of a driver. “Let the big fish involved in the mining operation be exposed,” he added.
 
 
