THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The law department has recommended the government to go ahead with the construction of the  's (IOC) proposed LNG terminal at Puthuvype in Ernakulam in the wake of recent order of the Chennai bench of the National Green Tribunal. 

 Law secretary B G Harindranath, in his legal opinion provided to the government on Thursday, accessed by TOI, has said that in the wake of the green tribunal's order, any other committee's findings against the project was unwarranted. He was referring to a report by a three-member committee, constituted by the chief minister after the project faced agitations last year. 
 
 "Environmental hazards have to be assessed not by laymen or non-statutory committees but by the ministry of environment & forests (MoEF) and the appellate body, the National Green Tribunal," the law secretary said. When the agitation against the project strengthened, the chief minister had constituted a three-member expert committee on June 21 last year consisting of director of national centre for earth science studies (NCESS) N  , retired chief town planner Eapen Varghese and former scientist of NCESS K V Thomas. The committee had furnished its report to the government with multiple riders to the project. 
 
 After the green tribunal dismissed a petition against the project on December 22 and asked the IOC to go ahead with the project, a high-level committee chaired by chief secretary   attended by the additional chief secretaries of industries, revenue, law secretary and IOC officials was convened on the orders of the chief minister. The committee had asked for a legal opinion from the law secretary. The green tribunal's bench had also said that any other report other than that of a statutory committee was irrelevant in the matter. 
 
 "An extra statutory committee's opinions are irrelevant and cannot be of use for any purpose and cannot be looked into rebut the findings of the statutory authorities. In this context, it has been noted by the   that the environmental clearance granted was upheld by the Supreme Court," the law secretary wrote. 
 
 
