NEW DELHI: The   Intelligence Bureau seized 2.5 lakh   bottles that were illegally smuggled into, stored or sold within the capital between April 1 last year and January 4. The data was part of an assessment done by the excise department which is devising ways to crack down on liquor smuggling and sale of bootleg liquor. Both lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister   are keen to curb the activities of the liquor mafia and regulate liquor sale keeping in view public safety, particularly of women.

 Of the 2,53,361   seized, country liquor, which is consumed mostly by low-income citizens, accounted for 1,51,819. Indian Made Foreign Liquor, popular among the middle and upper middle income groups, numbered 95,352 bottles, while 6,189 were of high-end brands.
 
 On January 19, in a meeting to review law and order, Baijal discussed the measures taken to curb the menace of drug and liquor abuse, especially among youngsters. The excise department informed the LG that smuggling in of liquor from neighbouring states for distribution mostly in slum areas and re-settlement and unauthorised colonies or for open drinking were big problems.
 
 According to the department, liquor is illegally brought to Delhi largely from Haryana. Excise intelligence has identified certain areas where such gangs operate. These include Wazirpur JJ colony, Jahangirpuri, Sultanpuri, Mangolpuri, Shakurpur, Raghubir Nagar, Uttam Nagar, Sagarpur, Sangam Vihar and Nand Nagri. Since there are very few liquor vends in resettlement colonies, the risk of illicit liquor making its way to such areas to meet demand is very high.
 
 Taking note of this, Excise Commissioner Amjad Tak held a meeting with the licensed wholesale suppliers of country liquor and asked them to ensure there was no short supply. Country liquor distillers and bottlers based in Haryana have been warned that if their role in smuggling of liquor to Delhi is ever reported, stringent action will follow.
 
 In December 2017, an attack on a 33-year-old woman for exposing the liquor mafia had reignited the issues related to alcohol abuse in low-income settlements.
 
 Tak said that the excise department is also taking legal action against restaurants and vends violating licence conditions. “Between April 2017 and January this year, 689 cases/FIRs were registered, 687 arrests made and 332 vehicles seized,” Tak pointed out. “Seven restaurant liquor licences were cancelled on account of violations and 11 suspended. The penalty imposed on those violating the licence conditions was cumulatively around Rs 1 crore.”
 
 On the challenges before Excise Intelligence Bureau are several — from the small staff strength to Delhi’s porous borders, especially with Haryana. And since the bureau staff wield no weapons, they also risked their lives going up against aggressive and violent people involved in bootlegging, including women, especially during seizure operations.
 
  
  
 
 
