JAIPUR : The state government’s recent Budget announcement to grant small   mining leases through auction has not provided any relief to realtors.

 Delays in completing private housing projects continue due to non-availability of sand as the department has not devised any policy to grant these small sand mining leases.
 
 The   ban on sand mining is threatening not only to bring the already embattled real estate sector under further financial stress but also in delaying thousands of projects, exposing the developers to the stringent penalties of RERA.
 
 With no solution in sight till the next hearing on March 13, when the court is expected to decide on whether to lift the ban or not, the real estate industry in the state met UDH additional chief secretary and top RERA officials and urged them to consider extending the time for projects lost due to sand shortage.
 
 Gopal Gupta, chairman of CREDAI, Rajasthan, said, “As there is no policy in place to mine sand from small leases, the housing projects in the state are on a standstill mode. We have requested the state government to extend the deadline of projects for developers for the same duration of time as the sand ban.”
 
 In February, the SC extended the mining ban in the state till March 13 and issued notices to the state government and the Union ministry of forest and environment (MoEF) for the move to mine sand from agricultural land.
 
 The non-availability of ‘bajri’ for construction has also posed serious problems for thousands of labourers, workers and consumers. Some developers added that nearly five lakh labourers, including migrant labourers, depend on construction and allied industries.
 
 There is also a dramatic drop in construction activities after the ban and cascading effect on real estate-related business. The rates of crusher dust/sand, a substitute of sand, has also touched the ceiling due to the ban. “After the ban, the rate of crusher sand has increased from Rs 10 to Rs 35 per feet. The operators have increased the prices as the demand has increased manifold,” said  , a developer.
 
 
