NEW DELHI: Brightening chances of early recovery of principal amount invested by home buyers in Jaypee’s housing projects, the   on   asked   ( ) to   by Rs 200 crore by May 10, which will take the total deposits to Rs 750 crore.

 JAL, the holding company of bankrupt   Infratech Ltd ( ), had already deposited Rs 550 crore on the orders of the court. A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud asked JAL to deposit Rs 100 crore by April 15 and another Rs 100 crore by May 10 and said the pro-rata disbursement of the money towards principal amount would start after April 15.
 
 However, this refund would be made to those homebuyers who have already opted for recovery of money paid to the builder and there would not be any more addition to the list following Wednesday’s order, the   told amicus curiae Pawanshree Agarawal.
 
 Agrawal informed the court that as of now 2,800 home-buyers have registered in the portal, created on the orders of SC, seeking refund and it would require Rs 1,300 crore to satisfy their claim only towards principal amount.
 
 Some homebuyers complained that despite registering for refund, the builder has been sending them notices to make balance payments. The Supreme Court restrained JAL and JIL from sending any more notice to them. 
 
 Appearing for JAL, advocate Anupam Lal Das said only 8% of the total homebuyers had opted for refund. He said the builder had collected only Rs 14,000 crore from the investors and put in Rs 15,000 crore. He said the builder was ready to complete all flats and offered to buy back the flats from refund-seekers the moment a flat was ready for possession.
 
 When Interim Resolution Professional’s move to invite bidders for completing JIL’s unfinished projects was brought to the notice of SC, the bench said IRP would not finalise anything without the leave of the court. 
 
 On learning that senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appointed to espouse the cause of homebuyers in JIL’s Committee of Creditors, has recused himself, the bench substituted him with advocate Gaurav Agrawal.
 
 When senior advocate Jayant Bhushan, representing 2,400 homebuyers, said his clients wanted possession of flats and requested SC not to abandon the rights of this class, the bench said after ensuring refund, it would take up the cause of homebuyers seeking early possession. 
 
 
