MUMBAI: Setting a precedent for unregulated fees in professional colleges, the state has exempted   in   from the ambit of the   (FRA). This decision gives the institute a free hand to fix tuition and other fees. In a letter to the  , the state government has said the move was in line with the Centre's decision to invite private companies with commercial interests to set up medical colleges. 

 "As this is a first-of-its-kind college which is registered as a private limited company established to make profit, the MCI has allowed such institutes to charge fees like deemed universities," said medical education secretary Sanjay Deshmukh.
 
 The decision has shocked the medical fraternity and activists, who feel this is the thin end of the wedge and the number of colleges that use the existing rules to opt out of the regulatory framework will increase, making medical education dearer.
 
 Last year,   was set up as  's first medical college under a private limited company. All other private colleges and hospitals in the state are set up as trusts.
 
 The state had decided that fees of reserved category students admitted to Vedantaa would not be reimbursed by the government, as in the case in other private colleges. "Five years down the line, the government will end up spending Rs 40-50 crore in reimbursing fees of reserved students admitted to this college," said a senior officer.
 
 Last year, the Directorate of Medical and Education Research exempted it from the FRA. But parents moved the FRA and in one of its hearings, this quasi-judicial body ruled that as Vedantaa was a private professional college affiliated to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, it would fall under the purview of the FRA. In a meeting on December 2, the FRA resolved that the institution is unaided, private and is running a professional course and, therefore, is subject to its jurisdiction as per the provisions of the Maharashtra Private and Unaided Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fees) Act, 2015.
 
 The minutes of the meeting read, "The institution in blatant disregard for the ad hoc fees fixed by FRA, which is Rs 6 lakh per student, has been collecting Rs 14 lakh". It added, the institution had declared the fees for NRI/institution quota at Rs 30 lakh, which was not permissible. The government has now overturned the FRA's decision, much to its dismay.
 
 "The state feels that the college should be allowed to profiteer and we feel that many other institutes will convert themselves from being trusts to for-profit companies. Here comes the start of commercialization of medical education," said an FRA member.
 
 
