CHENNAI: Residents of   are irked over the algae-filled tank of the famed  . The 30 feet deep tank, currently at 50% of its full capacity, offers a grim picture, covered in a sea of green. While the locals blamed the temple administration for failing to initiate action for clearing the   spread over the tank, officials said that water resources experts are being consulted to resolve the issue.

 Residents said the tank was revived last year after it was bone dry due to insufficient rain in 2016. Measures such as   to weed out vegetation was carried out. S Muralidharan, secretary of Vadapalani Temple Tank Square Residents Welfare Association said that the measures helped in increasing the water level in the tank, thanks to normal monsoon in 2017. “But, the formation of algae few weeks ago has given the tank a green cover. We took up the issue in person with the temple authorities. But nothing appears to have been done to address it,” he said.
 
 A popular temple in the state, the Arulmigu Vadapalani Andavar Temple falls under the administrative control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department (HR&CE). Another resident living close to the temple, under condition of anonymity, said that the lack of fish and ducks in the tank led to the formation of algae. “Absence of fish, which ate algae, has spread the organism across the tank. We do not know why fish breeding was not allowed this year despite the tank having sufficient water,” she said.
 
 Sundaram, who has lived in Vadapalani for four decades, said that formation of algae was a usual scene in the temple tank in the past as well. “Fish breeding cannot be a solution because water level in the tank depletes quickly due to the presence of numerous borewells drawing groundwater around it (tank),” he observed.
 
 When contacted, a temple staffer said that steps were initiated to remove the algae. “We do not want to use chemicals for removing algae as it may cause an adverse impact. Moreover, we have also consulted the Centre for Water Resources in Anna University and they have given us some suggestions such as introducing a particular species of fish to deal with the issue,” he added.
 
 
