LUDHIANA: In a jolt to the   government's attempt to revive of industry in the state, the   government is actively wooing garment and textile industrialists from Ludhiana, the state's industrial capital, to set up factories and shift majority of their production to  . 

 Attracted by the incentives and sops offered by the   government, the Ludhiana-based businessmen are expected to   close to Rs 1,000 crores in Dehri On  , 150 km from Patna, after top Bihar bureaucrats met them in Patna on Saturday.
 
 Taking cue from rising cost of land, labour and other inputs for industrial units in Punjab, the Bihar government has offered a list of sops and incentives to the businessmen along with offering them land at throwaway prices. In addition to this, the Punjab businessmen are also being offered low electricity rates and concessions in state taxes as well. The Bihar government's attempts to woo the Punjab industrialists have come at a point when Punjab recently announced its new industrial policy for new and existing industries with a host of promises, including Rs 5 flat electricity rate that was not fulfilled by the government till recently and that led to a lot of criticism by the businessmen.
 
 "There is a huge difference in the incentives the Bihar government is offering to the industrialists and the ones being given by the Punjab government in its new industrial policy," said  , finance secretary of the Knitwear Club.
 
 
 
 
 Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of the Knitwear Club said, “Apart from the difference in rates of subsidies in both the states, the main difference is in the cost of land acquisition that is thousands time more in Punjab as compared to Bihar. In addition to this, the availability of cheap labour in Bihar is also one of the major factors that will mean huge savings in cost of production.”
 
 Giving more information about the Patna meeting, Knitwear and Apparel Exporters’ Organisation president Harish Dua said, “Our meeting with the officials of the Bihar government turned out to be very fruitful. Along with promising lower rates of electricity, tax waivers, incentives and robust infrastructure, the Bihar government has also promised us interest subvention of up to Rs 20 crores for 5 years and subsidy of Rs 20,000 per worker for imparting apparel training.”
 
 The incentives have attracted over 15 businessmen to think seriously about shifting base to Bihar, or expanding their businesses there. “As of now we have more than 15 businessmen who are interested to set up factories there with an investment of around Rs 1,000 crore. However, a final call will be taken only once we return to Ludhiana after which we will organise a meeting of our association and all the interested businessmen will file a joint expression of interest for investment in Bihar,” Dua added.
 
 The Punjab industrialists are impressed with Nitish Kumar’s role in boosting law and order situation in Bihar and have been showering praise on him for organising the 350th anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. “The law and order situation in Bihar is now back to normal, crime rate has also come down there and that is one of the reasons why Bihar is amongst the favourite destinations for investment by business houses as well.”
 
 The Bihar government has offered Punjab industrialists a huge chunk of developed land at Dehri On Sone at a meagre amount of lease for 99 years.
 
 “Along with promising to install free common effluent treatment plants for our industries, the Bihar government has also agreed to provide us round-the-clock industrial security for safety of our industrial plants. The icing on the cake is the setting up of skill development centres and other infrastructure in industrial areas,” said Narinder Chugh, a permanent invitee to the Apparel Exporters Promotion Council.
 
 
 
