JAIPUR: The long-awaited relocation of tiger at   ( ) is expected to happen any time this week. 

 The standing committee on wildlife headed by DGP Ajit Singh on Monday inspected the MHTR to take the stock of the preparation. 
 
 The committee observed that civil work at Darrah is being undertaken speedily and tiger is expected to be relocated anytime from   (RTR) to MTHR.
 
 A committee member said, “The department is still awaiting certain permissions from National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) and   (WII). We are hoping to receive it soon. The tiger would be relocated soon after,” he said.
 
 The committee has directed the officials at MHTR to develop two-three waterhole points. 
 
 Planned in the reserve’s Darrah region, the tiger relocation is expected to be done before March 31, the deadline given by chief secretary N C Goel. The wildlife department has also sought dates from the chief minister to inaugurate the project in April.
 
 For the soft release of tigers, the MHTR has constructed an enclosure in 28 hectares. The enclosure is being built to help the animal acclimatize before being released into the wild.
 
 The forest department chose Darrah as it would give the tiger a contiguous habitat of 200 sq km, which is estimated to be larger than the core area of Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR). Before the first tiger is released into the reserve, the wildlife department will also develop a prey base and improve the living conditions for the big cat at MHTR.
 
 Directions were also issued to increase the prey base. “More cheetal from Jaipur zoo and Delhi will be shifted to the reserve to increase the prey base for tigers. Directions have also been given to develop more water points,” said a forest official.
 
 MHTR will be the third reserve in the country which will see the relocation of tigers. Following the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)’s approval, the wildlife department had initially shortlisted eight big cats—five males and three females—to be relocated from RTR. It has now shortened the list to four. Out of this, only three—one tiger and two tigresses—will be relocated to MHTR. Initially, the department will consider one male tiger, T-91, that recently left Ranthambore and reached the forests of Bundi. The tiger has been traced to Ramgarh sanctuary in Bundi district.
 
 
