BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to promote   language, the higher education department has issued a letter to the principals of the government colleges asking them not to charge fees other than hostel fees from students studying Odia as elective and honours subjects in Plus III level. 

 This direction will come into effect from this educational year 2018-19. "Students opted for Odia language in Plus III will not pay fees except the hostel dues," said  , additional secretary of higher education department, in his letter to the principals.
 
 On December 26 last year, the state cabinet chaired by chief minister   at Puri had taken several decisions to promote Odia language. It had decided to waive fees for studying Odia at the graduate and post-graduate level in colleges and universities. It had also taken several other decisions including conducting a world conference on Odia language in every five years. 
 
 The department implemented the decision by issuing a direction on Friday to the colleges to waive the fees. The fresh direction will help around 30,000 students of different colleges of the state. Normally, the colleges collect between Rs 1500 and Rs 2,000 as admission fees from the students, official sources said.
 
 Students hailed the step taken by the state government.  , a second year Odia honours student of   here, said it will reduce the burden on the poor students. "Hundreds of poor students face difficulties to pay the admission and other college fees. But this decision will give them a sigh of relief. Now more students will choose this course," he added. 
 
 The cabinet has also approved a plan to ease the criteria for getting   scholarship for students. The government has started the process to provide the   scholarship to Plus II and Plus III students securing high mark in Odia. They are entitled to get Rs 20,000 as scholarship amount.
 
 The state government is planning to increase number of teachers in Odia departments in colleges and universities and facilitate more research in this field. The government will also organise workshops in colleges and universities to promote Odia language and literature. It will give emphasis on translation of Odia books to other languages and give prizes to the people or organization for promoting the language. 
 
