It looks like actor   has taken the adage ‘health is wealth’ quite seriously. The actor was in Coimbatore recently to spread awareness about good   and prevent   as part of the Childhood Obesity Prevention in Schools initiative launched in the city. The actor addressed students from different schools across the city, who had turned up at the VOC Grounds in droves.

 Sivakarthikeyan began his speech by urging children to shun aerated beverages and  . “It’s sad that we are even talking about obesity at such a young age. If you have been eating pizzas & burgers and consuming aerated drinks, it’s time to stop that. It’s probably one of the biggest mistakes you have been making as it will affect your health in the long run. I stopped consuming soft drinks around 8 years ago when I realized that it was not good for my health. I even refused to do an ad that endorsed a soft drink brand. Instead, you should all opt for tender coconut or fresh juice, made of fruits and vegetables. They may not be very tasty, but they are good for your health. Eat lot of vegetables and fruits and ensure you only eat healthy food hereafter. And, ensure you get at least eight hours of sleep every night.”
 
 The actor cited the example of his latest outing  , in which he has addressed the issue. “And most importantly, if you see an obese kid in your school, do not bully her or him. In almost every school, you can spot children who are obese. Treat them kindly.”
 
 Sivakarthikeyan also advised the students to limit the usage of television and cell phone. “Do not use cellphone or watch television for more than 30 minutes every day. Instead, get out and play. Even today, during the break from my shoot, I would go to play cricket. It not only helps me dance better but also perform action sequences in an effective manner. If at the age of 32, it can help me to such a great extent, it would do wonders for you."
 
 The actor also recalled the days when he would visit the fairs and exhibitions at VOC Grounds in Coimbatore. “My father worked in the Coimbatore Central Prison from 2000- 2003 as a jail superintendent and I would come here during my school holidays. I have roamed Coimbatore quite a bit and I am a huge fan of Kongu Tamil.”
 
