Bhopal: Jolted by cave-in of three-storeyed crumbling hotel in Indore and loss of human lives, the civic body has decided to slap notices on owners of around 300 dilapidated building in the state capital. “A fresh review of buildings began in all 85 wards of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC),” confirmed BMC city engineer (civil) PK Jain on Monday. “Many structures were identified in the past. The list is with the BMC. However, a revision has been ordered to get an update from each of BMC zones,” said Jain. “Most of the dilapidated structures are in  ,” he said.

 The civic body wants to avoid a repeat of Indore-like tragedy, hence the action, sources said. “The structures that have been deemed irreparable would be demolished. Many structures are in urgent need of repair. For that, the BMC would notify building owners, too,” said Jain. Under Section 310, eviction order is served and under Section 309, a building owner is instructed to repair structure. 
 
 According to BMC internal assessment, at least 100 structures, which are not of more than 40 years, are marked dangerous. Most such structures are government houses or offices and need immediate repair.
 
 But there are many, who are unhappy over the civic body’s approach to the issue. “The BMC has only pulled down heritage structures in recent past. The civic body does not take action against influential people, who have many properties and the civic body does not take action against them,” said Shameem Khan, a retired school teacher.
 
 In past three years, there were a dozen instances of building collapse, leading to injuries and even deaths in Bhopal.
 
 ***
 
 No lessons learnt from house cave-in at Lal Ghati 
 
 More than three years after a house cave-in in Lal Ghati area, the BMC and the district administration have yet to take corrective action. A couple had died when the wall caved in. Experts warn the incident is a reminder of a clear and present danger from ‘illegal constructions’.
 
 Multi-storey structures have sprung up across Bhopal and many were constructed without proper inspection and permission. “The danger is not from old structures. The real danger is from poorly constructed new houses, which have come up across the city,” said  , a consultant.
 
 The BMC listed some 400 structures for demolition that have been illegally constructed, but no action has been initiated against them in four years. Buildings identified for demolition, are over four to five decades old and they can hardly be renovated. Most of these structures are in Zone 2, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
 
 Interestingly, dilapidated structures, including Narial Kheda, Qazi Camp area in Zone 3 did not figure in provisional list. Some 56 structures have been listed in the area, which include corporation's own  .
 
 ***
 
 Litigation ties BMC hands 
 
 Bhopal: Nine out of every 10 structures, identified as dilapidated, face litigation forcing the BMC personnel not to take any action to change the status quo.
 
 Civic officials said though such buildings pose a clear and present danger, still cannot be demolished. Going by BMC records, around 300 structures in Bhopal pose an immediate danger.
 
 Last year, owners of some 150 structures have been asked to carry out repair work, but there has been little or no follow-up from the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) civil wing, sources said. Zooming property rate is one of the major factors that led to litigation. For instance, many of these structures are decades old and are located in Old Bhopal area.
 
 ****
 
 
