HUBBALLI:  , popularly known as  , has been left high and dry after the  , which had taken the responsibility of restoring the park from the  , failed to do so. The Kendra was in charge of maintenance of the park earlier.

 The HDMC had promised to develop and maintain the park, renovate the toilets, provide drinking water facilities, a good walking path and other recreational facilities. But, the park has not seen any development after HDMC took responsibility of its maintenance.
 
 Visitors are now blaming the authorities for the sorry state of the park.
 
 After yielding to pressure from the public and elected representatives, HDMC officially took back the responsibility of maintenance from Nirmiti Kendra, which was working under the   DC, a few months ago.
 
 Soon after taking over from the Nirmiti Kendra, the commissioner and other senior HDMC officers formed a team which includes health, horticulture, tax, electricity, SWM and other departments to chalk out a development plan for the park, to bring it to its earlier state. Even after the team was constituted, development work at MG Park is at a standstill, and has become a sore point for the people.
 
 Srinivas Kulkarni, a resident of Deshpande Nagar, who visits the park every evening, said the park has fallen into disrepair, and there is no one to look into the daily happenings here. “The park has turned into ‘adda’ for miscreants, smokers and alcoholics. We feel scared to stop miscreants from illegal acts in the park. Security personnel are few, and are also afraid to confront them,” he said.
 
 Mohan Hiremani, corporator, said there are 40 security personnel on record at MG Park, but of them only two or three people are on duty while the rest are not found in the park at any time. “I visited the park in the morning and evening but found only two or three security personnel there. As outsiders use the park toilets, they are in a very bad condition,” he said, urging HDMC to take measures to improve it.
 
 Ganesh Tagargunti, corporator, said people are allowed to party inside the park which has spoiled the atmosphere. Sometimes, beer and liquor bottles are also found inside, but our demand to install CCTVs here is not yet fulfilled, he rued.
 
 “A comprehensive plan has been prepared under the Smart City project to develop this park at a cost of Rs 12crore. Soon, tenders will be called to take up developmental work here,” said  , commissioner, HDMC.
 
 
