JAIPUR: The state government on Thursday citied a high court order to justify the arrests of farmers and their leaders, including three former legislators, across Rajasthan in past three days. Home minister   said the court order allows rallies and protests in Jaipur only between 12 noon and 4 pm on working days while the farmers intended to stage an indefinite protest in the city.

 Kataria made the statement in the state assembly while responding to Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra’s allegation that the government was denying the right to protest to farmers who were gathering here to press for complete farm loan waiver. The government had announced to waive off farm loans up to Rs 50,000 taken from cooperative banks.
 
 The house was told that besides arresting 179 farmers and their leaders in past three days, the police detained around 2000 farmers and 50 vehicles on roads and highways leading to Jaipur from different districts till 11am on Thursday. Protesters were arrested from different parts of Jaipur, Sikar, Jhunjhunu, Churu, Hanumangarh, Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Nagaur and Baran districts, the home minister said.
 
 Even as thousands of farmers were protesting on roads across the state, there were just five Congress MLAs (out of 25)—Dotasra, Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Mewaram Jain, Ramnarayan and Shakuntla Rawat (she joined late)—and around 50 BJP MLAs (out of 159), besides a few others, in the house of 199-members when the peasant issues were being discussed in the assembly on Thursday.
 
 Raising the issue during zero hour, Dotasra said the riders put in by the government would restrict loan waiver benefit to less than half the number of affected farmers. “Instead of Rs 8000-cr figure given by the government, just Rs 2000-cr would reach the affected farmers,” the Congress legislator from Laxmangarh (Sikar) said.
 
 Dotasra said the government gave minimum support price (MSP) for just 11% groundnut crop, 34% moong crop, 1% soya-bean crop, while it did not buy bajra and maize at all in 2017-18, adding to hardships of farmers hit by natural calamities. “Farmers in the state lost more than Rs 3253-cr in a single year as government did not buy their produce at MSP,” the Congress whip said.
 
 “What did the farmers not give you? They gave you 163 seats in state (2013) and all 25 seats in Lok Sabha (2014). But, unfortunately, such a ‘useless’ government has come to power that it is sending farmers to jail and lodging fake cases against them,” Dotasra said.
 
 Countering the Congress whip’s allegations, cooperatives minister Ajay Singh Kilak presented district-wise figures of farm loans waived under the present government and the previous UPA-II government. “In Sikar district, 1,07,452 farmers will get more than Rs 465-cr benefit under our government, while just around Rs 16-cr were waived for 7,188 farmers under the previous UPA-II government,” said Kilak.
 
 
