GURUGRAM: On an average, 10-12 bikes and 1-3 cars are stolen in the city every day, indicates data available with the Gurugram police. A total of 1,939 vehicles were stolen till May 27 this year — almost a 32% rise from the 1,461   of   recorded during the corresponding period last year.

 A closer look at the data suggests Sadar area, sectors 14, 29, 50, DLF 2, IMT-Manesar and Badshapur are among the most vulnerable places in the city in terms of carjacking cases.
 
 
  
 Further, a zone-wise analysis shows a maximum of 792 bikes and cars were stolen so far this year in the western part of the district that includes areas like New Colony, Shivaji Nagar, Civil Lines, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar, Bajghera and Rajendra Park. The eastern part, comprising Sadar area, Sector 29, DLF 1, DLF 2 and  , stands second in the list with 672 thefts. While Manesar side recorded 325 such cases, the southern part of the city, consisting of Bhondsi, Badshapur and Sohna, reported 150 thefts already.
 
 Police sources claimed carjackers’ gangs mainly targeted luxury cars in the four-wheeler segment. 
 
 For two-wheelers, thieves eye for Hero Honda Splendor, TVS Apache, Bajaj Pulsar and sports bikes, which have a huge demand in grey markets, they added.
 
 A senior police officer said the gangs picked vehicles keeping in mind the demands for models and colours in grey markets. While stolen bikes are mostly sold in Mewat (Haryana) and neighbouring  , stolen cars find takers in Uttar Pradesh and Nepal, he added. A stolen bike is sold for Rs 5,000-Rs 10,000, whereas a stolen car can fetch anything between Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 depending up on the model and the brand.
 
 According to police, several gangs are active in the city. If gangs from Mewat and Rajasthan target two-wheelers, criminals from Delhi, Sonipat, Rohtak, Meerut and Baghpat hunt for cars. There are a couple of gangs, apparently from Mewat, that only look for tractors and dumpers.
 
 Elaborating on their modus operandi, an officer from the crime branch said these criminals roamed around the city in CNG autorickshaws, looking for cars and bikes parked on roadsides in residential societies, marketplaces and office areas. 
 
 “They generally come in autos, stop near a parked vehicle and wait for an opportunity. And at the opportune moment, they break open the lock and make off with the vehicle. One drives the stolen vehicle and his aides follow him in the auto,” the officer said. 
 
 According to him, these thieves carry ‘master keys’ that can open the lock of any vehicle within a minute. 
 
 After the theft, they leave the city and go underground for some time. In the meantime, they contact dealers who purchase the stolen cars and bikes.
 
 “They share details of the stolen vehicles with dealers, potential buyers through WhatsApp. They use various codes to communicate. But the main problem is WhatsApp videos, calls or chats cannot be tracked and the thieves take big advantage of this technical hurdle,” said another senior cop.
 
 As a result, despite constant efforts, the police have been failing to check vehicle thefts in the city. If 13 vehicles are stolen daily, the city cops could solve on an average only one case per day.
 
 But DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar said the police had recovered many stolen vehicles in the past few months. 
 
 “We are taking all measures to prevent vehicle thefts. But police cannot be everywhere, and thus we want people to be more proactive and careful about their vehicles, especially while parking in market places or roads,” Kuhar added.
 
 
