Sarawan Bodla (Muktsar): Family members of Punjab’s most wanted gangster Harjinder Singh Bhullar alias   and his accomplice Prema Lahoria, who were killed by Punjab Police on January 26 in Rajasthan, want that the encounter should be investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) or a sitting judge of the Rajasthan high court.

 Families of both gangsters will soon put forth their demand before the Rajasthan government. They also plan to approach the Sri Ganganagar district police, which is investigating the case, on Monday. This was announced at Gounder’s bhog ceremony that was performed at his native village of Sarawan Bodla in Muktsar district on Saturday.
 
 Apart from hundreds of residents from adjoining villages, mainly youngsters and family members of Lahoria also attended the ceremony. Members of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) termed the encounter as fake and assured the bereaved families of support.
 
 Gounder, Lahoria and their accomplice Sawinder Singh of Amritsar were killed in an encounter carried out by the organised crime control unit (OCCU), led by assistant inspectors general (AIGs) Gurmeet Singh Chauhan and  , at Tibbi village under Hindu Mal Kot police station in Sri Ganganagar. They were killed in the house of Lakhwinder Singh Lakha situated near Punjab border. Punjab Police had informed their Rajasthan counterparts after the encounter. The Sri Ganganagar police and additional district magistrate are probing the encounter.
 
 “We had gone to meet Sri Ganganagar additional superintendent of police (ASP) Surinder Singh Rathore and additional district magistrate (ADM) Nakhat Daan Barhath on February 1 but both were not available. We will again approach the officials on Monday and impress upon them to do justice in their investigations. If we fail to get justice, we will approach the state government to mark the investigations to the CBI or a sitting judge of the Rajasthan high court,” said Gounder’s father Mehal Singh and maternal uncle Gurbhej Singh.
 
 Gurbhej said they had also visited the house where the encounter took place and saw there were two gates from where   and his accomplices could have escaped. “The location of the house made it clear that to reach there one has to cover a long distance from a kutcha path. Insiders would immediately know if anyone was coming there. It points towards that no encounter took place whereas police said they were killed in retaliatory firing while they were called to surrender,” he said.
 
 Lahoria’s wife   said her husband had called her on January 26 and had told her that they wanted to surrender. “We heard of their killing in the encounter that points that something is definitely wrong. We want thorough a probe into the matter,” she added. Lahoria’s mother Manjit Kaur and brother Gur Puran Singh said they were certain that the three were killed in a fake encounter that needed to be probed. They said Lahoria had been implicated in false cases.
 
 On the other hand, OCCU AIG Chauhan said, “We have evidence to prove the authenticity of the encounter and we have provided the same to the   There is not an iota of truth that the encounter was fake or the gangsters wanted to surrender as their families are now claiming.”
 
