JAIPUR: Around 28,000 students appeared in the   at 63 centres in Jaipur on Sunday under strict security. At several centres, students were confronted by security guards for carrying articles like ink pens, pencil box, sacred wrist threads, niqab etc. Till the last report, no incidents of cheating, wrong paper distribution or violence were reported.

 Jyotika Sachdeva, spokesperson of IIS School which was one of the two coordinator of   exam in Jaipur said, “Exams were conducted smoothly without any major problem. The number of absentees is being compiled from all centres.” The exam was conducted from 10 am till 1 pm. The last minute rush at several exam centres created panic among the students.
 
 Reports said that no student was prevented from entering the examination hall unlike what happened in several states. Confrontations between students and security personnel were reported at several exam centres. “As per the instructions, those who wore full sleeved shirts, caps or broad collar shirts among boys were frisked thoroughly while in the case of girls those who wore multi layered tops, bottoms and hijabs were frisked,” said a security in-charge at a school near Moti Doongri temple.
 
 During frisking, some parents or guardians objected to the long security process adopted by the centres. “For every child they were taking over five minutes and in some cases they frisked students repeatedly making them conscious. I have never seen or read that even the sacred thread that my son got from a temple was not allowed inside,” said Prem Prakash, a father.
 
 The sweltering heat troubled both students and parents who had to wait for three to four hours outside. Officials said no student faced any problem due to the elaborate arrangements of water campers, additional fans in the corridors and classes and a medical team on the stand by at every center. However, parents complained that no arrangements were made for them outside exam center. “Ideally, they should have made seating arrangements or shed for parents to protect them from the sun,” said Manmeet Singh, who is from Jaipur. He had to spend 4 hours outside the exam centre at Mansarowar in the car.
 
 
