PATNA: Following a slight plunge in mercury column owing to isolated light showers in the region on Tuesday and Wednesday, majority parts of the state would now witness surge in temperature. Weatherman claimed the mercury will witness a rising trend in the absence of any weather system in the region.

 Temperature slightly plunged over the past couple of days under the influence of a north-south trough stretched between sub-Himalayan West Bengal and north Chhattisgarh along with a cyclonic circulation. Minimum temperature in Patna, which was recorded in the range of 16-18 degrees C in the last week, was measured at 14.7 degrees C on Wednesday.
 
 Several places in Bihar and neighbouring Jharkhand also witnessed isolated thundershowers owing to the twin systems.
 
 However, Bihar is now set for   in coming days even though neighbouring Jharkhand may witness isolated light showers around March 10 under the influence of an approaching western disturbance.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent, especially in the winter season.
 
 Deliberating on the expected weather conditions in Bihar, Patna meteorological centre director S Sengupta said: “We do not expect any system to affect the weather conditions in Bihar over the next few days. Accordingly, the weather will be mostly dry and hot.”
 
 The Met office has predicted the maximum temperature at Patna to be in the range of 31-33 degrees C over the next four to five days, while minimum is expected to be in the range of 16-18 degrees C.
 
 Gaya witnessed the lowest minimum temperature in the state at 13.1 degrees C. The minimum reading at Bhagalpur on the other hand was 16.4 degrees C.
 
 Weather experts have also claimed that Nor’Wester thundershowers may start occurring soon with the gradual rise in temperature. The Nor’Westers hitting Bihar normally originate from the   plateau region, when air over the plateau heats up and gains altitude with moisture support from an anti-cyclonic circulation or similar weather system in  . The frequency of Nor’Wester squall and thundershowers is highest in April and May, when the summer season is at its peak.
 
 
