VADODARA: The stalemate over the handing over of the   located in the heart of   in Warasiya for the slum rehabilitation project may end soon. The plot earmarked for the social welfare department had become a bone of contention between the   (VMC) and the developers as the civic body had not been handed over the land.

 The VMC demolished 1,841 dwellings and against this 2,637 houses will be constructed at the site for the urban poor under a public-private partnership project under the   (PMAY). The settlement was notified as a slum by the committee formed under the PMAY and tendering was done.
 
 The civic body razed the slums in July and the developer started paying rent to the beneficiaries whose houses were razed. The land parcel for the project comprises of survey number 384 measuring 89,234 square meters, survey number 417 measuring 3,940 square meters and survey number 814 measuring 52,813 square meters.
 
 It came to light that the survey number 384 was earmarked for imparting agriculture training to inmates of a beggar’s home of the social welfare department. The land was never put to that use and slums existed at the site. The district collectorate wrote a letter to the social welfare department regarding the land.
 
 The department wrote back stating that it wanted to make a university for disabled persons at the site. The issue was taken up with the state government and after a meeting with the chief secretary last year, it was decided that the land should be given for the project. In January, the district collector has again written to the revenue department giving approval to take the land from the social welfare department and hand it over to the VMC.
 
 Vadodara district collector P Bharthi said that the social welfare department had agreed to hand over the land to the revenue department. She said that this was expected to happen shortly and following the handing over the land could be given to the VMC for the slum rehabilitation project. If this happens, a major roadblock in the way of the project will be cleared.
 
 The VMC will still have to find a solution for another complication as the parcel of land to be used for the project includes one on which houses for the economically weaker sections have already been conducted several years back. Also, encroachments still exist on another part of the land.
 
 
