PANAJI/DABOLIM: By ferrying close to 2,500 people to and from the Goa International Airport on Friday, 35 buses of the state-run Kadamba Transport Corporation Limited ( ) served as an alternative means of transport for passengers who would have otherwise been left stranded owing to the ongoing taxi strike across the state. 

 The corporation, which kept adding buses to the service after gauging demand, had 73 buses plying on Saturday, earning a revenue of over Rs 3 lakh each day. The special service catered to passengers from 7am to 2am and will continue to be in force until January 25, KTCL chairman Carlos Almeida, said. 
 
 Almeida also said he roped in more KTCL staff at the airport on Saturday to hold placards indicating the destination of each bus and also to help senior citizens load their luggage. However, while a majority of the tourists were heading to Calangute and Candolim and didn’t have to wait for long for their respective buses to fill up and sent off, those travelling to   and Margao were left waiting, uncertain of when their buses would depart from the airport. 
 
 Senior citizens Shaila Jha and her husband, who were visiting Goa from the US, had reserved a room in a Panaji-based resort, were among these. They said they were forced to wait for over 30 minutes in a non-AC bus as there were no other takers for the shuttle service to the capital city. “This is our first trip to Goa and we are left with a bad impression. We left at 5am from   and are exhausted. Buses must run whether there are enough passengers or not. We would have cancelled our trip to Goa had we known about this situation some days ago,” Jha said. 
 
 A majority of the buses deployed by the KTCL, especially the older ones, also had no provisions to accommodate luggage, forcing passengers to place them on the front seats. 
 
 Moreover, despite the government’s efforts, many airport-bound tourists found it hard to locate the alternative means of transport due to a lack of awareness. “We had to come from Calangute to Panaji by an overcrowded local bus. It was only when we arrived Panaji that we learnt of the special airport bus service. There were neither banners/hoardings indicating the bus was available in Calangute, nor did the hotel management inform us,” Kadasha Mishra a tourist from Bengaluru, said. 
 
 
