SURAT: Midway through the nine days of fasting during  , even the most staunch believers get tad bored of eating the routine starch rich, high calorie food allowed for consumption. In Surat - the city of foodies - there are endless options to indulge in fat free varieties too,  

 Even if I say so, this columnist’s mother prepares the most exotic version of   khichdi - the sago is succulent and jelly like - yet, the composition is grainy, infused with grated potatoes with their skins on, crunchy and coarse roasted peanut tidbits, zingy green chillies and fresh nutritious curry leaves. What brings out the best of this combination’s flavour is her bespoke curry, peanut chutney with the goodness of jaggery and lemon. Sabudana actually has 0% fat, but its versatility makes it eligible for crunchy pakodas, kheer, chakris and wafers, which are high in calorie. Depend on this tapioca pearls for high energy providing carbohydrate. Another local favourite is steamed dhokla made of samo rice (moriyo chawal). This Indian barnyard millet is also prepared as a delicious stew cooked over low heat in buttermilk .
 
 Those who are diabetic or calorie conscious can opt for buckwheat (kuttu) preparations instead of starchy water chestnut flour. Benefits of buckwheat are several - from lowering cholesterol and blood pressure, this gluten-free flour provides protein in a highly digestible form along with supplying vitamins and minerals. To avoid deep fried puris, one can opt crispy bhakris, cottage cheese stuffed parathas cooked on a non-stick skillet without fat or good old khichdi instead.
 
 Foodies with a sweet tooth often depend on ‘fast friendly mithais prepared with milk, but those rasgullas, mawa malai pendas and shrikhand bowls will just send the glucose index soaring.   on a handful of walnuts and almonds instead , mixed with teenie weenie bits of half a date or chomp on a rajgira chikki . Chilled Greek yoghurt (probiotic goodness) mixed with fresh fruits such as grapes, strawberries or mango chunks tastes heavenly and mixing half a teaspoon of chia seeds in the same before devouring turns it too good to believe!
 
 A lesser known ingredient – ube yam – purple in colour, rich in antioxidants, contains almost no fat, is high in potassium and is just what a doctor would recommend for a nutritive dose. Whether boiled, steamed, sautéed or fried, it retains its distinct flavour and is a favourite with the locals. Relish thin baked crispy chips sprinkled with fresh lemon juice and coriander chilli chutney. Trust me, it gladdens the soul.
 
 Superfood sweet potato, shakkaria as Gujaratis call, is nature’s gift to diabetics. While the rest of the earth is discovering its greatness, Surtis have been including it in their diets since ages. For fasting, its oven roasted version with sprinkles of salt and pepper is suffice to survive through the day. High in fibre, low in cholesterol and fabulous in vitamin A among other beneficial composition, it’s a great source of vitamin C. 
 
 
