KOLHAPUR: Senior   leader   was cremated with full state honours at the Sonhira sugar factory in Wangi village of   taluka around 5pm on Saturday. 

 The former minister passed away following prolonged illness at   hospital in Mumbai on Friday.
 
 Thousands of mourners, including ministers and political leaders, gathered to bid adieu to Kadam. Among those present were chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, ministers Chandrakant Patil, Pankaja Munde, Congress leaders Ashok Chavan, Prithviraj Chavan, Prakash Mohan, Rajiv Satav, NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and Jayantrao Patil, MPs Udayanraje Bhosale and Sanjay Patil, RPI leader Ramdas Athawale and senior leader N D Patil.
 
 Fadnavis said, "Kadam was the leader of common people and 'ajatshatru' (had no enemies) in Maharashtra's political circles. When he was minister, I still remember that he appreciated me whenever I raised important issues against the government."
 
 The casket bearing the body was brought from Pune to the Sonhira sugar factory in a private helicopter in the afternoon. His son,   who is the Maharashtra youth Congress president, and other family members accompanied the body.
 
 Born on January 8, 1944 in Sonsal village in Kadegaon taluka of Sangli district, Kadam completed his school education in Sangli district and worked as a part-time teacher before joining politics. He later founded Bharati Vidyapeeth. 
 
 Earlier on Saturday, hundreds of supporters and family members paid their last respects to Kadam after his body was brought to his bungalow in Pune around 7am.
 
 A six-time MLA, Kadam was often referred to as 'CM in-waiting'. He had been active in state politics for the last 30 years. He headed important ministries like revenue, forest, rehabilitation, education, cooperation and industry in the state cabinet during the Congress-NCP rule.
 
 Though he hailed from a small town in Sangli district, Pune was an important city for Kadam since he established Bharati Vidyapeeth, an educational institute, in 1964. 
 
 Among the prominent leaders who paid their last respects to Kadam at his Pune bungalow were Pune's guardian minister Girish Bapat, former President Pratibha Patil, former Congress leader Suresh Kalmadi, mayor Mukta Tilak and former minister Harshvardhan Patil. 
 
 After a halt of around three hours at the bungalow, Kadam's mortal remains were taken to the Bharati Vidyapeeth campus in Dhankawdi, where people from all walks of life paid respects. 
 
 Pratibha Patil said, "Kadam will be remembered for his work in education and his dedication during his political career. "Kadam was very humble, had a good sense of humour and was friendly with everyone," she added.
 
 
