Mumbai: India has jumped 11 ranks from 92 to 81 in the   ( ) for the year 2018 — which covered 119 countries and 90 cities — on the back of its strengths like talent growth and global knowledge of the talent pool. According to a statement, this year’s report investigated the theme of ‘Diversity for Competitiveness’ and included three types of diversity:  ,  , and   (or value).

 The theme of diversity (collaboration between people with different personalities, knowledge sets, experiences and perspectives) was chosen because it plays a critical role in linking talent policies to innovation strategies. While India improved its overall ranking, it remained at risk of continuing to lose its best talent. Although the country ranked high on the ‘global knowledge skills’, India had a low rating in ‘talent retention and attraction’, ranking 99 and 98, respectively, out of 119 countries surveyed.
 
 Among cities, Mumbai and Delhi ranked at the bottom of the ‘Global City Talent Competitiveness Index’, with a ranking of 89 and 90, respectively. The cities were identified on the basis of their reputation and growing footprint in attracting global talent rather than as a function of their size or national-capital status. However, the report states that overall low performers are not without ammunition in the market for talent, and that this creates ample room for strategy and planning to improve along this dimension.
 
 Priyanshu Singh, country manager & MD,  , said in the statement, “Attracting global talent needs to be the main aim of India in order to compete with other countries and improve its talent retention rate. Through adoption of a culture of diversity and inclusion, we can further foster growth and increase the level of innovation. We need to recognise the need for understanding different cultures and make international skills an integral part of education.”
 
 Vinod Kumar, CEO and MD,  , stated, “As digital transformation becomes a priority for more and more organisations, highly automated technologies fuelled by AI are entering the workplace. As humans and machines start to work side-by-side, businesses must start viewing talent and diversity generated competitiveness as extending beyond humankind to include machine. In accepting the primacy of digital infrastructure, neither talent nor diversity will be considered as exclusive to people alone.”
 
 Within the regional sub-group ‘Central and Southern Asia’, India is ranked 2nd behind Kazakhstan. Among its income group of ‘lower-middle income’ countries, India ranked 5th. All the BRICS nations have seen an improvement compared to last year, though India continues to rank the lowest among them. China rose to the 43rd rank, Russia is 53rd, South Africa 63rd and Brazil 73rd, according to the report.
 
 Switzerland maintained its numero uno position, followed by Singapore and the US. European countries continue to dominate the GTCI rankings, with 15 in the top 25.
 
 Among the non-European countries ranking high this year are Australia (11th), New Zealand (12th), Canada (15th), the United Arab Emirates (17th), and Japan (20th).
 
 Latin America often leads in producing female graduates (Argentina ranks 5th globally).
 
 On the other hand, efforts in education (compared to GDP per capita) are high in Africa (Botswana is 1st, Lesotho 2nd, Senegal 5th).
 
 
