MUMBAI: Even before 32-year-old Rajesh Maru’s family was done grieving over his death, they suffered another loss on Tuesday. Laxmi Solanki, the relative for whom Maru had carried an oxygen cylinder into the   room and got pulled into the machine, died early on Tuesday at Nair Hospital.

 Solanki (65) was admitted at Nair Hospital on January 26 and was being treated for meningitis and pneumonia in the intensive care unit. “She had high fever for the past two months. She was being treated at a private hospital but returned home on January 25 as she was feeling fine. However, a day later, she took ill again and this time, we decided to take her to Nair Hospital,” said her son, Harish. She died around 12.30am and the last rites were held in the afternoon.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The doctors had ordered to get an MRI of the brain done on Saturday evening. “We were getting an appointment for February 8 but the doctor gave a recommendation as it was urgent. Hence, it was scheduled for the same day,” Harish’s wife  , who is Rajesh’s sister, told TOI.
 
 Harish said the MRI was not done after the mishap but Solanki’s treatment continued. “We were told that her health deteriorated in the evening on Monday and we rushed to see her. There were four policemen and a woman constable outside the ICU. We got to meet her only for a few minutes,” he said.
 
 Rajesh who was pulled into the MRI machine with the oxygen cylinder on Saturday evening died due to pneumothorax, a condition where excess air in the chest cavity causes the lung to collapse. “He was visiting us and decided to wait and help us as we took my mother for the MRI. We are unable to come to terms with the loss our family has faced in less than a week,” said Harish.
 
 Meanwhile, the family is waiting to hear from the authorities about the compensation and job for Maru’s sibling Leela. “Our families are going through bad times and we also stare at a financial uncertainty. We have heard about compensation only from the media. We are waiting for authorities to reach out to us. We also hoping   gets a job,” said Maru’s elder brother Yogesh.
 
 On Monday, Maru’s relatives along with BJP MLA Mangal Prabhat Lodha met   officials to demand that a job be given to Maru’s other sibling as well.
 
