 has portrayed the pleasant guy next door who is troubled by his demanding girlfriend so convincingly that when you meet him, you wonder if he is terrified of girls in real life, too. However, he denies it and breaks into peals of laughter as you ask him about his role in the upcoming film, '  Ke Titu Ki Sweety' ( ). In an exclusive interview with BT, Kartik admits that he loves all the attention he is getting. Excerpts...

 
 
 I have seen that youngsters seek their best friends’ approval in almost all important decisions of their lives. In real life, I do have a friend like Sonu and I am someone’s Sonu, too. If I am dating a girl, I will seek my friend’s approval. Maybe, after you see the film, you will crave for someone like Sonu in your life. I can say that Luv Ranjan (director) is my best friend. I am lucky because it is tough to find best friends in the industry. The people here are so caught up with their daily lives that it becomes too much for someone to pick up the phone at the end of the day and ask ‘What did you do today?’ 
 
 
 
 It is too early in my career to comment on the genre of films that I enjoy doing. I have done only six films so far and it has been a conscious decision to be part of movies that will appeal to the youth. I don’t want to change people’s perception about me. Very early in my career, I got known for my monologue ( ) and the youngsters connected with me. I am in no hurry to change my viewers. In fact, I feel that they will grow with me. 
 
 
 
 I love social media to the extent that they don’t ruin my personal life. Actually, like many others, I too have been a victim of it at times. I had gone out for dinner with a lady friend, when people clicked us and posted the photos online. It’s not as bad for me as it is for the girl. I think you should give some privacy and respect to everyone. 
 
 
 
 I have played a regular in all my films. But one day, Luv sir startled me by saying that he wants me in a ripped look for a sequence. It was very tough. Apart from training for three hours in the gym daily, I had to go completely off sugar and consume less carbohydrates, which was even more difficult because I have a sweet tooth. After every meal, I crave for a gulab jamun or halwa. And here I was, consuming only four-five teaspoons of water a few days before shooting the sequence. However, when the final results were seen, people appreciated it.
 
 
 
 Well, I am not the one who chooses my co-actors. Also, we have not done typical romantic films. In fact, our pairing — the scared boyfriend vs dominating girlfriend — has worked with the masses. We may share great chemistry on screen, but we do have our share of fights and bickering off it. We quarrel over small things, but at the end of the day, we are great friends. People often ask me if I am dating her, but I have not even thought about it. 
 
 
 I don’t want to comment on my personal life and relationships.
 
 
 
 Before 'Pyaar Ka Punchnama', I had my share of struggles — travelling ticketless in local trains and sharing a flat with 12 other people. After 'PKP', I never thought that ' ' would not work. And then, when ' ' also did not do well, it was a big blow. But you have to take these things in your stride, as box-office results are not in your hands. Finally, it was 'PKP 2' that changed the tide in my favour. And now, I am happy with 'SKTKS'; it is the best film I have done. 
 
 
 I am a traditional guy, who believes in being in love with one person. I have seen my parents’ marriage and I want the same kind of relationship for myself. I take time to be in a relationship. I would like to know the girl well before I take any decision about her.
 
 'Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety', produced by T-Series, Bhushan Kumar, Krishan Kumar, Luv Films and  , releases today.
 
