AHMEDABAD: A transporter,  , 82, a resident of   in Memnagar, was cheated of Rs 1.18 crore by cyber thieves, who posed as officials of the enforcement directorate and ‘insurance claim forum’.

 The cheaters lured Patel into paying the sum into more than 35 accounts at banks in Delhi, Noida and Mathura, promising him returns of Rs 1.92 crore on his three insurance policies which Patel had invested about five years ago, in the name of his son, Rajesh Patel, who is also in the transport business.
 
 “The cheats made Patel pay the money on pretexts such as ‘transaction charge’, ‘service charge’ and 18 % goods and services tax (GST) for about a year. Patel, did not disclose this to even family members and kept paying money into these different bank accounts. Only after he told his son Rajesh about the insurance policy returns, they realized that they had been cheated and lodged an FIR,” said a senior cyber cell official.
 
 According to complaint lodged by Patel, he started getting calls from one Tripathi who identified himself as an official of ‘Insurance Complaint Forum’ of Hyderabad, since March 2017.
 
 “The man told Patel that the money he had invested in insurance policies had matured into Rs 24 lakh which they had invested in the share market. The total payable amount had become Rs 84 lakh, but to claim the money he would have to pay transaction and service charges,” said a senior cyber cell official.
 
 Tripathi then put Patel in touch with another person, called Shukla, who identified himself as an official of an investment company based in Delhi. Meanwhile, Patel kept getting calls from people identifying themselves as   and  , of the same company. “They told Patel that amount payable to him was now not Rs 84 lakh but Rs 1.92 crore. Patel started depositing money in account numbers given to him by the gang. In November 2011, Patel got a call from one Piyush who identified himself as an official of enforcement directorate and talked Patel into depositing 18 % of Rs 1.92 crore amount as goods and services tax (GST) to claim the amount,” said an investigator.
 
 As a year passed by, Patel grew suspicious and told his son Rajesh about the payments over the last eight to nine months. Later a complaint was lodged with cyber cell of the city crime branch.
 
 
