AMRITSAR: High alert was sounded in the border districts of  , Gurdaspur and Amritsar after two unidentified persons in Army fatigues were spotted moving close to the international border by local Gujjars in Bamiyal sector on Sunday night. Following their input, police launched a manhunt in the border villages to search for the suspicious persons but in vain.

 In the terror attacks on the   station and Dinanagar police station, attackers were in Army fatigues. Following these incidents, the Army had issued guidelines to banning sale of the combat pattern Army and   (BSF) uniforms, shoes, and beret caps.
 
 On Sunday night, a resident of Bamiyal in Pathankot district Maskin Ali told police that he was going to drop his brother-in-law Kalu to   village in his car, when on the way he saw two persons on a motorcycle. They were wearing Army outfits but had their faces covered.
 
 “They read the number plate of my car, stopped their motorcycle and asked me to drop them near the Ravi, where, they said, their vehicle was parked,” said Maskin. He thought that soldiers were in need of help and he must give them lift up to their vehicle, he added. They left their motorcycle there and got in the car.
 
 Maskin told police that when he was driving them, one of the ‘soldier’ took out mobile phone from his pocket and in the brightness of phone’s light he saw in the rear mirror that they had beard but no moustache.
 
 “I panicked, when we reached near the destination. There was no Army vehicle there but a private vehicle. I pulled over and shouted to my brother-in-law to immediately run to safety,” he said. Later, police recovered his car but there was no clue of the suspected persons’ whereabouts.
 
 However, sources in the police department claimed that the whole incident was allegedly concocted by Maskin who was neck-deep in debt and wanted to divert attention.
 
 “We keep receiving such reports. Even one and a half months ago, there was a similar report of spotting of suspicious persons. Whenever a local person gets suspicious of someone, they inform police. We take every report seriously,” said IG border range police S S Parmar.
 
 Pathankot SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said police had carried out searches but didn’t spot any suspicious element. “Information keeps coming. This is not first such incident,” he said, adding that whenever some input comes, they carry out the search operation. He said police had not found anyone so far.
 
