SIDDHPUR: His house, located amid farmland on the outskirts of Kayan ( ) village near Siddhpur, cannot be missed. When the nation celebrates its 69th Republic Day on Friday, many people here will salute the Indian tricolour that flutters all the year round on the two-storey house of Ahmad  , 85, fondly called ‘Jhandawala Kaka’ (The Flag Uncle).

 Nandoliya’s is one of the few private properties in the state where the tricolour can be seen flying round the year. The Flag Code is followed here strictly so much so that Nandoliya has hired a person to hoist and lower the flag daily.
 
  “I had approached the   in the 1990s to seek the right to hoist the tricolour at my residence,” said Nandoliya. 
 
 “At that time, I met Naveen Jindal, former MP and chairman of  , who had submitted a petition on the same subject,” he said. “We had the same argument in our respective petitions. When several nations allow their citizens to proclaim their love for their country by hoisting a flag, why can’t we?” Nandoliya said.
 
 He recalled that Jindal had told him that whatever be the court’s judgement, it will apply to both their cases. 
 
 “I was very happy by the 2004 ruling that allowed private citizens to hoist the flag if they followed the rules,” said Nandoliya. He has been hoisting the flag ever since.
 
 Nandoliya had joined the   in 1953 for three years when there was an acute shortage of soldiers. After leaving the army, he shifted to Mumbai where he joined the dairy business of his family. He has cowsheds at his native place and in Mumbai. “I was about 13 years old when India got Independence,” he said. 
 
 “Memories of euphoria across the nation are still fresh. Stalwarts such as Jawaharlal Nehru had visited our area in Mumbai. They inspired an entire generation,” Nandoliya said.
 
 He said he had the opportunity to meet  , the then PM, when she came to campaign for him. “I believe that that is when I decided to unfurl the national flag on my house,” Nandoliya said. He further said that he had actively participated in flag hoisting ceremonies since his childhood.
 
 Nandoliya used to hoist the Tricolour himself but now because of his age, his employee, Gambhirsinh, takes care of the daily unfurling ceremony. Nandoliya is always present to salute the flag in the mornings and evenings whenever he is at his residence. 
 
 January 26 and August 15 are celebrated as major festivals at his household. “I have told my children to continue the custom even after my death and have made adequate arrangements for this,” he said. 
 
 He accepted that times have changed. When he first started the practice, the khadi flag used to cost about Rs 150. “Now it costs Rs 1600. Due to wear and tear in windy conditions, a flag, on an average, lasts about three months,” Nandoliya said.
 
 The village also takes pride in ‘Jhandawala Kaka.’ A fellow villager, Shahid Nandoliya, said they had grown up seeing the national flag on Ahmad Nandoliya’s residence and this instills pride and also spreads the message of unity and patriotism. “Youths from the village participate in the flag hoisting ceremony at his residence on Republic Day and Independence Day,” Shahid said.
 
 
