NEW DELHI: Commuters travelling on Delhi Metro’s   (Dwarka-Noida/Vaishali) faced a harrowing time on Saturday afternoon as train services were reportedly affected by a  . A   spokesperson later confirmed that services were affected due to loss of control (signalling) for interlocking stations of Karol Bagh and Kirti Nagar at 12.22 pm, which led to a loss of train IDs. 

 “Control for trains was lost for nine minutes, till 12.31 pm. As a result, trains between Karol Bagh and Dwarka Sector 21 stations were manually controlled. This led to bunching of trains. However, as soon as control was restored, all trains were given fresh IDs and normalcy on entire Blue line was gradually restored,” the spokesperson added.
 
 “I boarded the metro from Vaishali at 12.15 pm to travel to Preet Vihar. The train, however, didn’t move and soon there was an announcement that a passenger had misplaced his bag and that he should collect it from the security check point,” said Karuna Sharma, a commuter. “The train finally started trudging at 12.45pm and after reaching Karkardooma, again stopped for over 15 minutes. There were announcements that the train has been delayed due to some technical problem,” she said.
 
 Sharma said that during this time, the lights inside the train were turned off and the air-conditioning stopped functioning too. “It was suffocating and one passenger even started vomiting,” she said. “I finally reached Preet Vihar after 1pm and a journey that usually takes 15 minutes, took more than 45 minutes on Saturday,” she added.
 
 Commuters, however, complained that they had to face unusually long delays on the Blue Line on Saturday afternoon. “Avoid blue line #DelhiMetro route. It’s running late. Due to signal problem, I'm already stuck for the past 30 minutes!” Anshumaan Vishnu tweeted.
 
 “I was stuck at   metro station for more than half an hour with train operations coming to a halt. Announcements were made that there was a problem but no information was given about when the problem is expected to be rectified,” said  , another commuter.
 
 
