

 
 
 
  I'm not at all happy with the circumstances. I had made a lot of promises to the people, and I wish I had become CM with a majority. But the people did not have that kind of faith in me and the party. I'm aware of the criticism, people think I am an opportunist. I've become the CM to prove otherwise. 
 
  
 
 
  Well, this not how I wanted to become CM. But that's not important now. What is pertinent now is to form the government and run it efficiently. So far as Siddaramaiah goes, I have a lot of regard for him. Whatever we said before the elections are in the past. I am forward-looking. 
 
  
 
 
  I am accepting this responsibility not because it is an opportunity. I see this more as a test that god and people have put forth and I will dedicate my life proving my commitment to people. I know the circumstances under which I am becoming CM, they are the same as in 2006 and I will ensure that the same mistakes are not repeated. 
 
 
 
 
 
  I am committed to 
  but decisions cannot be taken based on emotions. I want all to understand that we are now in a coalition. We will analyse what the burden on the exchequer will be and find the best possible way out. We also have take into account the promises made by Congress and I am committed to implementing them too. 
 
  
 
 
  We will come out with a common minimum programme and have a coordination committee in place. While we have not yet decided who will be part of this committee. Siddaramaiah, with his experience of having run a state for five years, will be needed. We will take all decisions by taking Congress leaders 
  into confidence. 
 
  
 
 
  Both Shivakumar and I have matured as politicians and understand the situation at hand. We have decided to join hands and are confident that we can keep aside our personal equations and work together. 
 
  
 
 
  We have collectively put in a 'man of the match' performance, every leader mattered and that is why we were able to succeed. In my opinion, every leader has played his part in stitching together this coalition and keeping BJP out of play. 
 
 
