ALLAHABAD: The   (UPSEB) would start the new academic session, which begins Monday onwards, with the introduction of a revamped syllabus based on National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).

 The new syllabus would be taught in class IX to XII and would also include a course on Vedic Mathematics derived from a book written by former Shankaracarya of Govardhana Matha, Bharati Krisna Tirthaji Maharaja.
 
 “The state governemnt had directed the board to send a proposal about a course on Vedic Mathematics, based on a book written by the Shankaracharya. This was formally approved by the UP secondary education department on March 19,” said aUP Board official, on condition of anonymity.
 
 Secretary of UPSEB, Neena  , said, “We are introducing Vedic Maths in the form of a booklet to help class IX to XII students solve complex mathematics problem using traditional formulae. The students will only be taught Vedic mathematics in classes and would not have to take an examination for the course.”
 
 Srivastava said that the booklet would be made available to students after some time because of a delay in the finalisation of the course contents.
 
 Refusing to divulge details about Shankarcharya’s book, the   secretary said, “We have incorporated all traditional methods of solving complex problems of subtraction, multiplication and division, algebra, and trignometry. The students will also learn about mathematicians like Aryabhatta and Varahamihira.”
 
 Vedic Maths was earlier taught to classes IX to XII, under the name of ‘Bharat Ka Paramparagat Ganit Gyan’, during the regime of the Kalyan Singh-led Bharatiya Janata Prty government from class IX to XII in the early 1990s.
 
 UP Board officials said the subject was later removed by the successive state government and has now been re-introduced by the Yogi government.
 
 The   government in Haryana has also introduced Vedic Mathematics from classes IX to XII.
 
 Meanwhile, UP Board plans to introduce NCERT books to make the academic standard in its schools on par with that of (CBSE).
 
