GURUGRAM: Their primary focus was on whether big private   in the city were treating as many poor   as they are obligated to. But a   of Haryana legislators that went on an ‘inspection’ of the city’s major private hospitals on Thursday appeared intrigued by the number of   undergoing organ transplants here.

 A number of queries that the hospitals had to field from the MLAs focused on transplant  , like how many in a month, how many of those on foreign patients, where the donor organs came from, etc. The hospital said transplants on foreign patients were few and far between, and donors accompanied the patients.
 
 The MLAs also inquired about the percentage of Caesarean deliveries vis-a-vis normal deliveries at the hospitals, cases of dengue that were registered — both suspected as well as confirmed — how much money they had allocated for research, and what kind of research was being carried out. On Thursday, the panel visited Medanta, Artemis and Fortis. 
 
 The seven-member committee, led by Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal, said the visits were “routine” but sources said a string of medical negligence complaints filed in Gurugram were a factor. Besides Aggarwal, the committee comprises Karan Singh Dalal (Palwal), Kuldeep Sharma (Ganaur), Om Prakash Yadav (Narnaul), Ramchand Kamboj (Rania), Jasbir Deswal (Safidon) and Nasim Ahmed (Ferozepur Jhirka). Called ‘Subject Committee on Education, Technical Education, Vocational Education, Medical Education and Health Services’, it offers recommendations at the end of each year. 
 
 “We got repeated complaints that the poor were not being treated properly and were being overcharged. Preliminary findings indicate the hospitals are not treating as many poor patients as required,” said Aggarwal. Aggarwal also said the panel had sought relevant records from all hospitals for scrutiny. 
 
 Before the committee started its visits, Gurugram’s civil surgeon Dr B K Rajora told the legislators the state, while allotting plots to these hospitals, had mandated that 20% below poverty line patients had to be treated free of cost. “Apart from this, another 10%   (economically weaker section) patients are also eligible for free   at these hospitals,” he said, adding all EWS patients were eligible for a 30% discount in superspecialty hospitals. 
 
 A monitoring panel for treatment of EWS patients, Rajora said, had been set up with the civil surgeon and Red Cross Society’s Huda estate officer among its members. 
 
 Medanta was the first hospital the MLAs visited, and was also the place where they spent most of their time. The MLAs observed that the EWS/BPL helpdesk was difficult to spot and signage informing patients of free treatment was small. The hospital responded by saying even though its helpdesk was located at the back, employees directed patients to respective desks.
 
 According to the numbers the MLAs had with them, the government had recorded that only 118 EWS patients had been admitted in the hospital out of the total 64,000 in the in-patient departments in 2017. Medanta chairman and MD Dr Naresh Trehan protested the committee’s concern that not enough EWS patients were being treated. Trehan said a number of poor people, even if they were not BPL, were being granted free treatment at the hospital. He said it was not the hospital’s prerogative to find poor patients and treat them if enough such patients were not showing up. While the committee asked Trehan to carry out outreach programmes, Trehan asked the committee and civil surgeon to refer more EWS patients to the hospital. 
 
 
