HARIDWAR
  A woman who sold liquor illegally in Haridwar alleged that she and her daughter were raped by three people, including a sub-inspector who was posted at   police station. Police registered a case against the officer and two others who are allegedly involved in liquor smuggling in the city.
 
  Meanwhile police also transferred the accused officer from Jawalapur police station to Pathri police station.
  
  Police said that the women in her complaint said that the accused have been assaulting her for several months and recently they even raped her daughter in front of her. When she opposed they threatened her of dire consequences and allegedly beat her up, police said.
  
  However, it is not confirmed if the woman approached the local police for registering the case before sending a written complaint to the DGP office about the matter. After the woman complaint, ADG law and order   sent a letter to the district police for registering a case against the sub-inspector.
  
  Sub inspector   has been charged under section of 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Two others,   and  , both residents of Lal Mandir Colony under the Jawalapur police station were also booked in the case.
  
  Rachita Juyal, circle officer of Sadar area, said, “We have registered a case against the sub inspector and two others. Statements of the victims have been recorded. As of now we have transferred the officer, but after investigation we will take stricter action against the accused.”
  
  Meanwhile, it is revealed that the case was registered on December 28 but police did not disclose the matter before mediapersons. On Saturday, the matter came to light and a senior police officer also confirmed the incident.
  
  Police said that the woman sold liquor illegally in Jawalpur area with the help of accused Kumar and Chand and the accused sub-inspector also had relations with them. She was sexually abused by them but when they raped her daughter she finally decided to speak up, police said.
