NAGPUR: The   (ABVP) got a clear majority winning six of the 10 registered Graduates Constituency seats of   on Wednesday morning. Besides the four seats from reserved category won by ABVP on Tuesday, two more open seats came its way.

 Senate Parivartan Panel (SPP) had an impressive run on its maiden contest. The SPP won two open seats and stood second in four reserved seats, which it missed by narrow margins. The SPP presence proved costly for Secular Panel (SP) and   (YTA) who failed miserably this time after registering thumping wins in the Senate and Board of Studies (BoS) polls.
 
 Besides SP and YTA, Nagpur University Teachers’ Assocaiton (NUTA) too didn’t get a single win.
 
 Except ABVP, all groups blamed the mistimed graduates registration process for their loss.
 
 Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad’s (VVSP) Manmohan Vajpai was another winner for the jumbo alliance, that has come off now. Sarita Nimbarte of Padvidhar Mahasangh (PM) is another winner from the so-called alliance. VVSP, SP, YTA and had formed a pre-poll jumbo alliance.
 
 The graduates heavyweight   said everyone was fighting on his/her merit and there was no alliance.
 
 ABVP office-bearer Vikramjeet Kalane said his group has been working for students and educational growth. “This time, we would work to make higher education affordable and quality education. For rural students, we would be asking authorities to provide resting rooms for rural students by utilizing facilities which are not in use,” Kalane said.
 
 SPP was at number two in four reserved seats and lost by narrow margins. The difference between winners and SSP candidates in the reserved category ranged between 88 and 1,200.
 
 SPP working president Pratik Bankar said we are yet to decide with whom our group will align with. He blamed the cancellation of 1,200 registration of SPP graduates for the lost by narrow margins.
 
 NUTA former secretary Anil Dhage too blamed the registration process for his group’s poor show. “We could have gone into the elections with better preparation. But, not many of out teachers could register themselves,” he said.
 
 VVSP’s Bajpai too blamed the registration process for the poor show by his group.
 
 
