KOLKATA: With the Centre on Friday issuing two back-toback notifications elevating Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya as the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court and also formally appointing four judges to the HC, the possibility of an end to the longest cease-work by the lawyers — which had begun on February 19 — appears imminent.

 
 The   in its resolution on Thursday had indicated it will automatically withdraw the cease-work once the formal appointment of the judges come through. Besides, the high court was functioning without a permanent chief justice for the last three years.
 
 According to sources, the lawyers’ cease-work will possibly be withdrawn on Monday, though no official confirmation was made on Friday.
 
 The appointment of four new judges — Biswajit Basu, Amrita Sinha, Abhijit Gangopadhyay and Jay Sengupta — will take the high court bench strength to 37 against a sanctioned strength of 72. The lawyers went on a cease-work on February 19 in protest against the large number of vacancies at the high court.
 
 The   collegium had sent the names of these four advocates along with three others to the SC collegium on May 4 last year recommending their appointment as judges. However, the SC collegium comprising CJI Dipak Misra and Justices J Chelameswar and   decided to interact with the seven to ascertain their suitability.
 
 The SC collegium on March 26 recommended five names to the government for appointment to the Calcutta HC. However, the government on Friday issued orders for appointment of only four while holding back the recommendation for Sutanu Kumar Patra.
 
 The Calcutta HC lawyers’ bodies had on Thursday decided to extend their cease-work till May 11, but resolved to withdraw it the moment the four new judges are appointed.
 
 The fractured general body meeting had to be adjourned after lawyers appeared split on whether or not to continue the cease-work after association president, Uttam Majumdar, proposed that the strike be withdrawn as the appointment-process had begun at the Centre. A majority of the lawyers decided to extend the cease-work till May 11 and meet on May 14, but also decided to call off the strike when the formal warrants of appointment reached the designate-judges.
 
 
