CHENNAI: In an attempt to pull up those responsible for accidents involving buses,   cameras may soon be installed on government buses across   including those operated by the Metropolitan Transport Corporation ( ) to keep an eye on the road and help to readily ascertain the cause of accidents.

 The proposal came up for discussion during the road safety review meeting of various state transport corporations, held at   on Monday. “We are planning to use the fund allocated by the state transport department for improving road safety,” said a top MTC official. “Once we get their nod, tenders would be floated,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 Nearly 75% of accidents involving MTC buses have reported damage in front of the vehicle, creating an impression that the bus driver was responsible for it. In such cases, invariably government bus drivers are booked without much investigation and the onus is on them to prove themselves innocent, said   from  . “Particularly in Chennai, most accidents are caused because of rash and negligent driving by two-wheelers. But unless the bus drivers go out of their way and collect CCTV camera footage from nearby educational institutions or commercial establishments, cases are filed against them,” he added. The proposed cameras would be fitted on the exterior of the vehicle above the left rearview mirror so that investigating agencies can identify who caused the accident. 
 
 Another MTC driver, requesting anonymity, said they were always made to pay as their driving licences are suspended for six months after a case is filed. “It is difficult to run a family during that period as there is no alternate source of income.”
 
 Opposing this, advocate VS  , who deals with road accident cases, said MTC drivers violate traffic rules and are responsible for most accidents. 
 
 He, however, admitted that police tend to file cases against the larger vehicle involved in an accident. “There are no scientific measures adopted in this entire process,” he agreed. MTC officials hope that fitting CCTV cameras in buses will put an end to all such uncertainties. Besides this, discussions were held on possibilities of installing CCTV cameras at bus stands. 
 
 In a related development, the transport department on May 15 released Rs 69 crore towards the Chief Minister’s Accident Relief Fund. Of this, Chennai and its suburbs would be receiving Rs 22 crore. Collectorates are authorised to release funds towards road accident victims based on severity.
 
 
