LUCKNOW: Having taken a serious note of BJP’s shocking defeat in byelections and the recent resentment shown by four Dalit MPs against the state leadership, Prime Minister   is learnt to have expressed his concern to chief minister Yogi Adityanath over the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh.

 
 During his Delhi visit on Saturday, Yogi also met   national president  , who also expressed his reservations over the failure of the state leadership in certain areas. Shah will now visit Lucknow on April 11 to have a first-hand assessment of the ground situation.
 
 An explanation sought by the Prime Minister and the party president from the UP chief minister assumes significance in the wake of a three-day visit by two top RSS functionaries to the state. Krishna Gopal and Dattatreya Hosabale collected feedback after interacting with the two deputy chief ministers, ministers, party office-bearers, RSS leaders, grassroots-level volunteers and the public during their visit to UP.
 
 Officially, Yogi’s meeting with   and Shah is being described as a courtesy call and routine discussion. However, party insiders revealed that its impact could be visible very soon it would not be surprising to see some drastic changes in the BJP-led state government and in the organization in the days to come.
 
 Already, RSS inputs have alerted the BJP leadership about the consolidation of the SP and the BSP in the state and the swift mobilization of Muslims and Dalits against the BJP. A rattled Modi, had called Yogi to Delhi late on Saturday evening. During the meeting, he reportedly told him to resolve issues as soon as possible.
 
 In an unusual development, four MPs from the SC community — Savitri Bai Phule, Chhote Lal, Yashwant Singh and Ashok Dohre — have expressed their anguish before the state and central leaderships over atrocities against dalits. Yogi, who has already suffered a blow after losing his bastion Gorakhpur to  , is facing the heat once again less than a month after it.
 
 In view of the escalating tensions in the rank and file of the BJP, crucial changes in the government and organisation are on the cards.
 
