KOCHI: The   model of health that is lauded globally has been facing a tough challenge over the years. Increasing cost of medicines and hospitalisation has made affordable healthcare a distant dream. The only way to overcome this would be to increase allotment on health in the budget and focus on prevention programmes rather than cure.

 The total budget allocation for medical, public health and family welfare in 2017-18 is Rs 7,515 crore, up from Rs 6,323 crore allocated last year. While the outlay for health services is Rs 724 crore, Rs 470 crore has been allocated for medical education. While Rs 49 crore has been earmarked for ayurveda, homoeopathy got Rs 31 crore. While this looks impressive, the real picture is not quite as rosy.
 
 
 Annual health expenditure of the state government at present is 0.6% of the GDP and needs to be increased per annum at the rate of one per cent to reach five per cent mark. This was one of the promises in the   manifesto for 2016 assembly elections but is yet to become a reality.
 
 “The budget should reflect the provisions for improving the health of the people and for this budgetary allocation needs to be increased. There should be comprehensive and practical programmes and policies for prevention of communicable diseases, prevention and treatment of lifestyle diseases and providing safe drinking water and food,” said Dr VG  , vice-president,  .
 
 “Health cess can be implemented which will give sufficient fund allocation for implementing universal health care programmes. Free medical treatment plan for trauma and accident victims should be initiated,” he added.
 
 In the last budget, the government had promised free medicines for patients with lifestyle diseases, cheaper drugs for organ transplant patients, eradication of leprosy and elephantiasis and patient-friendly government hospitals.
 
 The finance minister had said that transplant drugs would be supplied at 10% of its present price by the  . “Fund shortage is a reality. We have to start a stateowned pharmaceuticals company to ensure that everyone gets cheaper medicines,” added  , state secretary,   (IMA).
 
