COIMBATORE: Affected with a growth retardation syndrome that left her stunted and immobile, 17-year-old CB Preethi had to depend on others to carry her to the Government Higher Secondary School at Seeranaickenpalayam. She attended classes lying on a table, as she was unable to sit or stand. Yet she secured 471 out of 600 marks and came third in the school when the Class XI board exam result was announced on Wednesday. At the school, her friends and teachers remembered Preethi — who passed away on May 18 after a brief illness — dabbing tears from their eyes.

 Preethi has scored 93 in Tamil, the highest mark in the school and 94 in Accountancy. The education department had reopened Commerce stream in the school, which was closed in 2009, so that she could continue studies.
 
 The physical condition was never a deterrent for her and she had started preparing for Class XII, teachers said. “She had attended Business Mathematics class that I conducted for a selected students for nearly a month,” said V Saravanan, the school’s headmaster.
 
 Tamil teacher R Sudha said Preethi was one of the brightest students she had ever seen. “After the Class XII results were announced recently, she called me to say that she would get 195 marks in Tamil in Class XII, the highest scored by any student in the school,” she said.
 
 “After classes, we would have a short discussion session. Preethi was the one who would always ask questions and would want to discuss the day’s lesson. She would eagerly ask questions from grammar, which other students would shy away from,” said Sudha.
 
 “She had bought Class XII books and was eagerly reading them. She had called me to say she had already studied four quotes from the memory verses in Tamil,” said Sudha, adding that Preethi used to participate in elocution and poetry recital events also.
 
 Preethi’s father   supplies confectionery and newspapers to shops. Her mother B Bhuvaneswari, who used to carry her to the school, said even on May 18, the day she died, Preethi was studying. “Her bones had stopped growing when she was a child. Doctors had said she would not survive for long. Her teachers were very supportive and motivating, it was because of that she had held on for so long,” she said.
 
 “She wanted to become an collector,” said Bhuvaneswari. “I hope her life would motivate others like her.”
 
 
