GURUGRAM: A 35-year-old man was sentenced to 10-year rigorous imprisonment for raping a 30-year-old married woman after attacking her husband in June 2017. On the basis of the medical report, forensic evidence and police investigation,  , a resident of   village was held guilty under section 307 (attempt to murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) by the court of additional session judge Major (rtd) Phalit Sharma.

 The court in its February 22 order while pronouncing the verdict observed that a rapist not only violates the survivor’s privacy and personal integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process. “Rape is not merely a physical assault, it is often destructive of the whole personality of the survivor,” the court said.
 
 The woman and her husband were labourers at a poultry farm in village   of Rewari. On June 20, 2017, while she was sleeping, an unknown person came near her after hitting her husband on his head with a stick, removed her bed sheet and dragged her into a nearby field and raped her. Her husband didn’t know what was happening since he fell unconscious. The attacker also threatened the woman that he would kill her if he divulged it to anybody. The complainant somehow managed to flee and later informed the poultry owner about her ordeal.
 
 During the investigation, police found out broken bangles and torn clothes of the rape survivor and the stick used by the accused. Owing to the injuries inflicted on his head, her husband has become handicapped and is unable to speak now. He couldn’t even record his statement in the court. However, the court relied on the rape survivor’s statement, medical and forensic evidences to decide on the verdict. “This court is of the view that in the interest of justice and to set an example for the society to deal with such kind of heinous crimes, it would be apt to awarded stringent punishment,” the court observed.
 
 The accused has sought leniency from the court, claiming that he is the only breadwinner of the family and has aged parents, but the court rejected his arguments and observed that a person convicted for rape do not deserve any mercy as he leaves a permanent scar on the mind of survivor. 
 
 
