As the second level of the Gandhipuram flyover, which was originally designed as an underpass, goes above 60-foot height, residents and activists have raised concern about its safety and usage.

 The flyover’s second level starts near the seventh cross at 100 Feet Road and will end near the   covering a distance of 1.5km. "It will be constructed above the first level of the flyover and the slope is slightly steep. It may look dangerous but there are steeper elevated corridors constructed in the country in the past. It is the first time that in Coimbatore, we have seen a steep slope. It is as per norms and the safety of the commuters has been taken into account," said a highways department official.
 
 However, activists and industrialists say that the highway design was completely changed after land acquisition failed. "This new design will serve no purpose and is a total waste of funds," said  , president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. President of Resident Awareness Association of Coimbatore C R Swaminathan said the people should have been informed about the changes in the design. 
 
 "We were totally unaware when the designs were changed. At least they should have roped in consultants to ensure that the flyover is constructed in a way that it will be used by the public," he said.
 
 Arun Prasad, a private architect, said that the volume of traffic was very less on this stretch. "A flyover is a need of the hour near the Gandhipuram town bus stand at the   signal. But they have wasted funds by constructing it there," said Arun Prasad.
 
 Commuters in the area were also very scared to climb on the flyover. "This looks really steep. There will be lot of accidents if people use the flyover. Moreover, it is so high that it is very dangerous," said Guna M, a techie.
 
 The officials said that to ensure the safety of the people, they will set up grills on both the sides of the flyover instead of just hand rails.
 
 Activists added that even the subways, the ramps and various other aspects of the original design were scrapped after the land acquisition failed.
 
 "More than 30 cases were filed in the high court and the government could only acquire land worth Rs 1crore. So they held meetings and redesigned," said an official. 
 
 A resident, R Muthu said all the bus depots were located under the first level of the flyover. So, there is no point as people in this road either come for shopping or to board a bus. "Just connecting   with   makes no sense," said Muthu.
 
 The first flyover has been completed and is being used by commuters. The second flyover will be opened to public by June. There is a proposal to extend the second flyover as well, adding another 350m distance to it. It will be taken up simultaneously once the chief minister approves it. The second level will have 53 spans and 52 piers if the extended area of 350m is also included.
 
 
