MANDSAUR:   on Thursday rolled out a ‘contest’ among party leaders aspiring to snatch a party ticket for coming assembly polls in Mandsaur and surrounding districts. Whoever brings more crowd to AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s rally in Pipliamandi on June 6, will win the ticket. The ‘contest’ will be officially monitored by ‘judges’ who will keep track of the crowds mobilised by every contestant, in every assembly segment.

 “Show your might. Let those who got more people to Rahulji’s rally get tickets; those who failed to do so will understand why they did not,” AICC secretary and Madhya Pradesh in-charge Sanjay Kapoor announced the contest before a crowd of party leaders from Mandsaur, Ratlam, Neemuch and Ujjain.
 The leaders had gathered to chalk out strategy to mobilise farmers to Rahul’s rally that aims to commemorate the death of six farmers, allegedly due to police firing and atrocities during agitation in 2017. Kapoor also dubbed the rally as the launch of Congress’ election campaign in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 “I have appointed observers for every assembly segment. They will be in touch with you (ticket aspirants). Carry your crowd under banners and posters made by you.., showing your work. Tell the observers. They will keep a record,” the AICC secretary said.
 The Congress meeting organised in Pipliamandi saw party leaders of various factions come under one umbrella, including former MP   and her supporters who had quit their respective posts against appointment of Rajendra Singh   as party state coordination committee member. Gautam was removed from the party for six years after he contested against Natarajan in parliamentary elections in 2009.
 
 “This is not an issue to worry. We will work it out within the party,” Kapoor later told TOI.
 But the meeting resonated Congress intentions to project Mandsaur as the epicentre for its election campaign for the coming elections. Former state minster Narendra Nahata, who addressed the leaders, gave details of how Congress sprung back to power against the Jan Sangh after starting the campaign from Mandsaur.
 
 Congress MLA Jeetu Patwari echoed his sentiments and called out to leaders knocking party office doors for tickets to first show their might. “We should not falter here. If we put our might together, we will get over 2 lakh people to the rally. It would send a message to BJP that Congress will be in power in Madhya Pradesh this year and at the centre next year,” he said.
 Congress is expected to complete the process of declaring party candidates before rains arrive. Party state campaign chief Jyotiraditya Scindia had declared in Ujjain recently: “We will get the names of candidates out by August so that it will give them ample time to reach out to people in their constituencies.”
 
