CHENNAI: In case of a medical emergency,   are less likely to receive cardiopulmonary resuscitation ( ) than men, due to cultural taboos and societal attitudes. That’s why on March 5, ahead of International Women’s Day, ALERT We Care kickstarted the #SHEneedsCPR  .

 “In India, awareness about CPR is very low; it is estimated that 98% of the population doesn’t know about it. But even when people do, they are hesitant to come to the aid of a woman because as a society, we have inhibitions about letting a man touch a woman,” says Mahalakshmi  , executive – social initiatives at ALERT, a group of young professionals working to make basic medical life support available to all in times of need.
 
 Research has shown that men are more likely to get CPR than women. According to a 2017 US-based study, in the event of a sudden heart attack in a public place, men are more likely to receive CPR from bystanders than women. Only 39% of women suffering cardiac arrest in a public place were given CPR as against 45% of men, and men were 23% more likely to survive.
 
 “By uncovering this disparity, we’ll be able to think about new ways to train and educate the public on when, why, and how to administer bystander CPR, in order to help save more lives – of both men and women,” said Audrey Blewer, assistant director at University of Pennsylvania in the US.
 
 Davapalani Alagappan, emergency care head, Apollo Hospitals, says that people do hesitate to administer CPR, when the patient is a woman. “CPR involves placing your hands on the centre of the chest to give compressions. In a professional environment it is easier, though there are a few paramedics who are hesitant,” he says. “In public spaces, people are reluctant to do so but one needs to understand that even with CPR, the person in need has slim chances of survival and if even that is denied, it is wrong.”
 
 CPR is needed if the person is unresponsive, is not breathing (the chest and abdomen are not moving) and there is no pulse, he adds. “Raising awareness and getting people to practise with mannequins will help so that people will not see it as a man’s chest or a woman’s chest but as just someone in need of medical aid,” he says.
 
 The #SHEneedsCPR campaign will strive to create awareness among the general public. “We are getting video bytes from celebrities who support the campaign, posting it on social media and approaching gyms, beauty salons, and supermarket chains to put up posters and show the video bytes to reach out to the general public,” says Ganesan. “When it comes to saving a life, the gender shouldn’t matter.”
 
 ALERT will also conduct WOW – Empowering Women in case of Emergencies, a free workshop for women, on March 10 at Backyard, Adyar, from 2pm to 4pm. The idea is to promote emergency response awareness and preparedness among women. “When you educate a woman, you are ensuring that it is passed down the generations. Women are strong propagators of knowledge,” says Ganesan.
 
 As there are limited seats, interested people may register on http://alert-wecare.org/care/wow
 
 
