BATHINDA: Chimneys of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant ( ) in   went silent on New Year day. Electricity generation from four units of the 460 MW thermal power plant was stopped officially on Monday. The officials and employees attended the office as usual, but they wore black badges in protest against the shutdown of the plant.

 It was 43 years ago that the plant had started operation, and given the township a prominent landmark. The first unit of the plant was commissioned in 1974. Now shut, it has left the employees perturbed and facing a bleak future. There are nearly 950 regular employees and nearly 600 contractual employees at GNDTP. The process to shift the employees is under way.
 
 On December 20, 2017, the   cabinet had announced to permanently shut down the GNDTP from January 1, along with two units of   thermal plant. The reason cited was that power generated from Bathinda plant was costly. 
 
 A visit to the thermal plant on Monday revealed minimum activity. The turbines have yet not been stopped and were rotating, though not for power generation but for fear of them jamming. Till the time some of the ongoing contracts for various jobs are still there, the plant would not be dismantled.
 
 “The entire nation is celebrating the New Year but here at the thermal plant we are seeing it as black day. We are uncertain about our future as any time we may get transfer orders to any other place. We have spent many years at GNDTP and may not be able to make both ends meet (if posted) at any other place,” said a contractual employee Sukhwinder Singh who was on duty near turbine area.
 
 The power engineering body   members claimed the plant still had a lot of life but it was being shut just to favour private players and sell off the nearly 2,000 acre land. GNDTP chief engineer-cum-general manager   said, “From today, the generation facility has been stopped as per government orders but employees are working as usual. The process for the transfer of employees is being put in motion and the modalities being worked out to completely shut down including turbines. Soon, the meeting will be held at Punjab state power corporation limited to settle all the things.”
 
 The nearly 600 contractual employees of thermal plant on Monday started the indefinite protest dharna outside Bathinda district administrative complex against the shutting down of the plant. The family members of the employees too sat on the protest. “We want the state government to review its decision of shutting down of the plant. We will continue protesting till the government not takes back its decision,” said contractual employees union convener  .
 
 Earlier the regular and contractual employees marched from thermal plant to the deputy commissioner office and burnt the state government effigy.
 
 
