KOLKATA: Come March 7 and night owls will not have to depend only on app-cabs, hired cars or personal transport — they will have buses too. The routes of the buses have been designed to touch upon all major transit points like  , Sealdah and airport, besides major government hospitals and crematoria.

 Bengal transport minister Suvendu Adhikari flagged off 112 such buses on Friday. “Each bus — to play between 10pm and 6am — will be fitted with panic buttons and GPS so that a passenger can raise an alarm in case of emergency. We are also talking to the Railways and airport authority to synchronise our services with late arrivals and early departures.”
 
 Out of 112 buses, 43 will be run in the city by   and rest by NBSTC and SBSTC. Initially, 24 buses will ply touching upon Howrah, Sealdah, airport, Sector V, Karunamayee, Kasba, Gariahat and Ballygunge Phari. The fares will remain unchanged and the buses will do two round trips on every route. A transport department official said police in Kolkata and Howrah and the public vehicles department have given the necessary clearances. The buses will start from Howrah, where cops will be heavily deployed to instil a sense of security among passengers, the officer said.
 
 A senior officer said there had been a demand for buses at night from Howrah station. “The fleet strength is expected to go up depending on the response. Both the Howrah and Kolkata police have assured help regarding security. We are thinking of one or two routes initially. If the demand peaks, other parts of the city will be included,” said an officer.
 
 The transport department official said complaints from passengers had been reaching   that they have to either be stranded at Howrah station or pay high because of unavailability of buses. Fliers, too, face the same difficulty due to lack of public transport.
 
 “There are places beyond Howrah and Sealdah that are not covered by cabs or appcabs. The target passengers include call-centre employees, catering staff and eatery employees,” said an officer.
 
 On Friday, Adhikari also flagged off six modern vessels to ferry passengers between Naihati-Chinsurah, Manirampur-Seoraphuli, Rishra-Khardaha, Radharghat (east)–Radharghat (west), Raichak-Kukrahati and Nandigram-Haldia.
 
