KOLKATA: Two of the grandsons of the Rs 3,000-crore   Group patriarch Shree Kumar   have filed a petition in the Calcutta high court for division of the group’s assets, prompting the court to appoint a mediator and ask the grandsons and the respondents (S K Bangur and his sons, Virendraa and  ) not to sell any of the assets till the next hearing on March 26.

 The petitioners, both less than 18 years old, are Virendraa’s sons. The grandsons, being minors, have not been named in the case and it has been instituted through their mother, Nitya Bangur, who hails from the B M Khaitan family, owners of dry cell battery major Eveready and tea giant McLeod Russel. Nitya is B M Khaitan’s granddaughter and the late Deepak Khaitan’s daughter.
 
 The two grandsons, along with mother Nitya, left the Bangurs’ Alipore home in June 2017 and have been living separately since then. The suit says the grandsons apprehend denial of their rights over the group’s assets and properties. It contends that the companies and various divisions of the S K Bangur Group have not been run successfully.
 
 The HC last Friday directed members of the Bangur family (S K, his wife,  , their two sons and grandsons) to maintain status quo vis-a-vis all assets and properties, both movable and immovable.
 
 The HC also directed the involved parties to attempt a settlement through mediation by retired Calcutta HC judge Aloke Chakraborty. Former state advocate general Anindya Kumar Mitra appeared on behalf of the grandsons and another former state advocate general, Jayanta Kumar Mitra, appeared on behalf of S K Bangur and his family members. The mediation proceedings might commence from next week.
 
 itself, those in the know told TOI.
 
 S K Bangur declined to comment on the issue when contacted by TOI. But Fox & Mandal partner advocate Debanjan Mandal said on behalf of the two grandsons: “The development is confirmed but I cannot comment further as the matter is sub-judice.”
 
 Advocate Amit Agarwal said on behalf of S K Bangur and his sons: “It is a minor family issue that will be resolved through mediation under the aegis of the Calcutta HC.”
 
 The petition seeks a partition of the assets and properties that are now with S K Bangur, which he received after the larger Bangur family split in 1992. A property at 16 Alipore Road, measuring more than 175 cottahs, was also partitioned in 1995 and the S K Bangur Group received its share of around 75 cottahs. Several trusts were also partitioned along with other family assets. The group holds more than 55% stake in its flagship company, West Coast Paper, and substantial holdings in other operating companies.
 
