ISSURU (Shivamogga district): Issuru doesn’t find a place in history textbooks. This   was the first in the nation to raise the banner of freedom from British Raj and declare independence in 1942. Six brave villagers were hanged by the British but all that is in the past. In democratic India, Issuru figures nowhere in the itineraries of top leaders crisscrossing the state; it does not even merit a mention in their campaign.

 Issuru is located in   where BJP’s CM candidate BS Yeddyurappa is a contestant. It has a population of 6,000, including 4,800 voters.
 
 “In office, Yeddyurappa sanctioned Rs 12 crore for the development of the village and projects like concrete roads, box drains and housing for the poor were sanctioned. But, after his reign, the village has been forgotten,” says local lawyer Rudrappaiah, who was previously the BJP president in Shikaripura.
 
 Issuru’s history now lives on in the memories of its surviving freedom fighter R Basavanappa, 86, and the widow of Marohalli Budhappa (102).
 
 A small non-descript black granite memorial carries the names of Gorappa, Eshwarappa, Jinahalli Mallappa, Surayanaryanachar, Badkahalli Halappa and Goudrashankarappa who were hanged on March 8, 1943 for revolting against the British and for their alleged involvement in the death of a local revenue inspector. For decades now, villagers have been demanding a bigger structure for the memorial.
 
 Over the last two months, Congress president Rahul Gandhi and BJP president Amit Shah have stopped 47km short of Issuru, at Shivamogga. PM Modi is visiting Shivamogga on May 5 but locals brook no hope of him visiting the village either. Even CM Siddaramaiah, they point out, has not visited the village after taking office.
 
 “There is a lot of development opportunity for Issuru but parties are not interested in it. We have seen Yeddyurappa come and go, but when it comes to employment there are no avenues,” said a grocer.
 
 Gram panchayat secretary Pramod says a proposal to develop the memorial under MGNREGA in convergence with the state horticulture department has been placed. “But due to the  , development works may happen only after the polls,” he said.
 
 A villager says Issuru is paying the price for Shikaripura being known as a BSY bastion. “When it comes to the development of the memorial, BJP is scared of giving credit to Congress. Congress too is not keen on sharing credit with BJP which is ruling the gram panchayat. The real loser in this scenario is Issuru and its rich legacy of the freedom struggle.”
 
