PATNA: Chief minister   on Sunday congratulated the people of   for making the human chain against child marriage and dowry a success on Sunday. He said the fight against the twin social evils along with developmental work would continue in the state.

 “The impact of any development can be seen only after social evils are removed from the society,”   told media persons after standing for 30 minutes in the human chain at Gandhi Maidan. He said like the study conducted by the state and independent agencies on the positive effects of prohibition in the state, the government would also conduct an audit of the effect of the campaign launched against dowry and child marriage on October 2 last year.
 
 The CM used the occasion to appeal to people for boycott the marriages involving dowry or under-aged bride and groom. “Though there is law against dowry and child marriage, only firm stand against such practices will remove these evils from the society,” he said.
 
 Counting the negative impact of both the evils, he said child marriages have led to high maternal mortality rate as well as birth of stunted children. 
 
 He also said the state government would launch a common telephone number within a couple of months for people to inform the police about any violation of prohibition law in their respective areas. “The new technology is being put in place and it will be operational within two months,” Nitish said. He said a DGP or ADG rank officer would be assigned the task of monitoring the calls and action taken thereon. “Grievances or complaints related to violation of liquor ban will be recorded and prompt action will be taken. The record of disposal or progress made in such cases will also be maintained,” CM said. 
 
 Nitish, who was accompanied by deputy chief minister   and assembly Speaker   and several other ministers and VVIPs in the human chain, also took a dig at opposition parties and said those who criticised the event were actually harming themselves as it was formed for a social cause. However, he did not take name of any political party or politician in particular.
 
 It is to be noted that the human chain formed on the same day last year in support of liquor ban in Bihar was supported by   and Congress, who were then alliance partners of JD(U) in the state. 
 
 Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, however, said both RJD and Congress should have participated in the human chain on Sunday. “Previous year they were supporting the CM in prohibition and now they are making a fun of it. Last year, despite being in the opposition, we had supported the social cause,” he said.
 
 
