MUMBAI: The government is preparing to move the apex court against a recent Bombay high court ruling that makes medical postgraduate aspirants from outside the state who have done their MBBS here eligible for state seats. 

  (DMER) has sought the law and judiciary department's opinion and is likely to move court soon. "Once the department deems the case fit to be taken to the  , we will appeal," said Dr  , director, DMER.
 
  
  
 Students from the state who will be affected by the court ruling are planning to intervene in the case if the state moves the Supreme Court.
 
 The state had made domicile mandatory for PG admissions to 50% state seats in government, civic and private colleges last year. Before 2017, admissions to state seats were open to all students who completed their MBBS from the state. In private colleges, 50% seats are for state quota and 50% are for institutional quota, of which 15% is for NRI.
 
 The policy made 400 students, who did their MBBS from   but were not domiciled here, ineligible. They moved court and got relief. This year again, the affected students moved court, and the policy was quashed.
 
 "The state government did not present a strong case. We are eligible only for 50% of seats in state, civic and private colleges. These seats further drop when students from outside the state also take about 10-15% of the share. Students from outside the state apply under the Maharashtra quota, they apply even under the 50% all-India quota and also to colleges in their respective states," said a state aspirant from  , who along with other MBBS graduates staged a silent protest on Monday at Azad Maidan in Mumbai.
 
 The students met medical education minister Girish Mahajan, seeking intervention. "Once the state government appeals in the apex court, we will intervene in the matter. The aspirants from outside state complete their one-year bond and leave for their respective states. We are hit the most," said another student. An official said the state spends huge amounts of public money on medical education but faces shortage of doctors in rural areas.
 
 
