HYDERABAD: Fertility and reproductive health experts have found that problems related to ovaries are the leading cause of infertility among women in the city. 

  An analysis of the medical data at the gynaecology outpatient department in two major hospitals in Hyderabad during January-December 2017 revealed that ovary-related factors were responsible for infertility in 40% of the women patients.
 
 
  
  
 
 The result of the research study was presented at the 28th annual meeting of the   and Fertility (ISSRF-2018) held in Hyderabad. Leading experts in fertility and reproductive health from different parts of India and several countries participated in the ISSRF-2018, which coincided with the first World  .
 
 In all, about 1,000 women attended the obstetrics and gynaecology outpatient department in   and Research Centre, and Princess Esra Hospital, Hyderabad, between January 2017 and December 2017. They were part of the study. Besides them, about 100 infertile women operated at these two hospitals were also part of the research.
 
 Out of 100 cases of infertility that were operated on, ovarian causes were found in 40%, tubal (fallopian tubes) factors in 24%, uterine factors in 14%, cervical factors in 3% and pelvic factors in 2%. Normal findings were reported in 28% of women at the hospitals.
 
 "Ovarian factors accounted for the majority of cases in infertility," said researchers Dr   and Dr Roya Rozati of the  . Describing infertility as a "disease of reproductive system", she said a woman is said to be infertile if she fails to achieve a clinical pregnancy after 12 months or more of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.
 
 Stating that infertility is a growing concern, the researchers said in many cases the exact cause of infertility may not be elucidated whether it is tubal, ovarian, uterine, or combination of factors.
 
 Out of 1,000 patients studied, 280 were infertile, said Rozati, who is also the organizing secretary of the World Congress on Reproductive Health. Researchers said that research is being going on to develop effective treatment procedures.
 
 Experts at the ISSRF-2018 said India is the first country to reach phase-III clinical trials for male contraception. Research in female contraceptive medicine has favoured remarkable outcomes including the non-steroidal and poly-herbal drugs.
 
 Referring to reproductive tract cancer in women, the experts said new milestones have been achieved in treating such carcinomas. The infection in the reproductive or genital tract that affects women of sexually active age group are not easy to detect as symptoms come at a very late stage.
 
 
