Ludhiana: Civic officials seem to be waiting for another direction from the   and Haryana High Court for taking action against commercial buildings where there is no parking space, and complexes have been constructed violating building bylaws.   officials have recently completed a survey of 148 commercial complexes, out of which 105 are without parking space, while the rest have only partial parking facility. As per norms, commercial complexes should have adequate parking space, so that there is no traffic chaos on the roads.

 Information obtained under   by city-based activist Rohit Sabharwal has exposed the careless attitude of MC officials in taking action against violators. It was after a complaint made by the activist that the additional chief secretary of   department asked MC officials to conduct a survey of these 148 commercial complexes and take suitable action against them. However, first of all, officials kept delaying the survey of such complexes, but now, even though they have all the reports, they have taken no action against violators.
 
 Intriguingly, for some complexes, MC had approved a residential building plan, but they constructed a commercial establishment. Now, the situation is such that even though officials have complete details about violations, they are unable to take action against violators for reasons best known to them. Most of the complexes are located in Ghumar Mandi, Rani Jhansi Road, Ferozepur Road, Model Town, Model Town Extension, BRS Nagar, and Kochhar Market. The complaint made against these commercial complexes was on the ground of violation of rules regarding parking spaces, which is mandatory for commercial establishments as per building bylaws.
 
 In his complaint, Sabharwal had mentioned that provision of parking space in commercial complexes is the legal as well as moral responsibility of the building owner. He had mentioned that 148 showrooms and commercial buildings had either not left the earmarked parking space or had provided inadequate parking space according to building bylaws and approved maps. He said officials are still wasting time and would act only when somebody knocks on the doors of the high court.
 
 MC Commissioner  , however, said officials had completed the survey, but some irregularities in complexes were compoundable, while some were non-compoundable. Therefore, they would have to first cross- check all the facts. He said they would seal complexes where there is no chance of regularizing the violations. 
 
 
