PUNE: Right wing group   leader Sambhaji Bhide’s   will stage a march to all district collectorates of the state on March 28 demanding immediate withdrawal of charges against him.

 A day after the Koregaon Bhima violence on January 1, the Pimpri police had filed a case against   as well as others under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act and other sections of the Indian Penal Code, including attempt to murder. One person was killed in the clashes. 
 
 Parashar Mone, city head of the group, on Friday said Bhide did not have any connection with the Koregaon Bhima violence and his name was “deliberately dragged” into the incident. 
 
 He added, “Bhide had not visited the violence-affected villages in the last three years. In Pune, the protest march will start from   and end at the district collector’s office.”
 
 Mone claimed that the Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan has received support from other right wing groups. “We expect thousands of supporters of the Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan and other right wing groups to participate in the protest. We have sought permission from the police for the  ,” he said.
 
 Bhide, founder of the Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan and one of the two main accused in the Koregaon Bhima violence, recently said he had no role in the incident. He claimed it was Prakash Ambedkar, president of the Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh, who was behind the caste violence.
 
 Bhide’s comment was in response to Ambedkar’s demand that the state arrest him for the January 1 violence. The Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh said Hindutva leader   and Bhide were “the main conspirators behind the violence”.
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday, a Pune rural police team visited Sangli to verify Bhide’s alleged role in the matter. Police sources stated that Bhide was out of Sangli during the course of their visit. Instead, the police questioned some members of his organization regarding the violence. The team was also in Sangli to gather evidence in connection with the case. In particular, the police team will gather information regarding Bhide’s whereabouts before, during and after the Koregaon Bhima violence.
 
 
