NEW DELHI: Oil and Natural Gas Corporation rode the higher oil price wave and lower statutory levies to end the 2017-18 fiscal with an 11% increase in profit but the flagship explorer still lags downstream leader   as the most profitable government-run oil company.

 
  late on Wednesday ended the fiscal with a profit of Rs 19,945 crore. In the January-March period, the company's profit rose 35% to Rs 5,915 crore, the highest in 17 quarters.
 
 In contrast, the country’s largest refiner and fuel retailer   last week posted a record profit of Rs 21,346 crore in 2017-18, marking a 12% increase from Rs19,106 crorein 2016-17.
 
 The comparison has given some food for thought to policymakers to scrutinise margins of fuel retailers as they look for long-term solutions to cushion consumers from volatility in global crude prices. Pump prices have in the last fortnight hit record levels on the back of relentless rise in crude prices, which have appreciated 60% in a year.
 
 Since the government does not want to reduce taxes for fear of upsetting revenue calculations for infrastructure and welfare schemes, there have been suggestions to ask ONGC and OIL to offer discount on crude — in a throwback to the subsidy regime — or levy a windfall tax beyond $70/barrel oil price.
 
 But the numbers clearly don’t leave much scope for ONGC — or OIL — to extend any support to refiner-marketers. This is because oil exploration and production is a capital intensive and risky business. ONGC alone has an annual capex plan of around Rs 34,000 crore, most of it being spent on maintaining or raising production from vintage fields. Discounts or windfall tax will hit the spending capability and affect output.
 
 ONGC and Oil India had till June 2015 picked up to 40% of the annual fuel subsidy tab by providing discount on crude sold to refiner-marketers IOC, BPCL and HPCL. This discount helped the retailers make up part of the losses they incurred on selling petrol and diesel below cost under government orders.
 
