BENGALURU: A police constable’s wife, working as a domestic help to raise her three kids, fought nearly six years against the police department and its life insurance provider to finally gain a rightful insurance amount after the death of her husband while in service in 2012.

 The police department and   had denied money stating that the cop met with the accident two days before a government order upgrading the life insurance scheme for police personnel from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 10 lakh, though the former passed away a month later.
 
 It all started on March 10, 2012 when 52-year-old Janabai of   received the shocking news that her husband Shivanand Keera Naik, a chief head constable attached to Adarsh Nagar police station in Vijayapura, met with a road accident and was critical. He died on April 10, 2012.
 
 Janabai’s ordeal began when she tried to get a general insurance claim awarded to police personnel following their demise while in service. An older policy granting Rs 3 lakh was upgraded to Rs 10 lakh through a government order on March 12, 2012, two days ahead of Naik’s accident. But Janabai, the nominee, was denied the higher amount by the police department and the firm. The mother of three had to run from pillar to post for more than three years with documents showing her husband died days after the new scheme came into effect, but the authorities claimed the date of the death was immaterial and the accident occurred two days prior to the new policy coming into effect. She was granted Rs 3 lakh as per the old policy.
 
 A determined Janabai approached the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Vijayapura, on July 23, 2015 with a complaint against the   director general of police (DGP) and the insurance company demanding an additional Rs 7 lakh. The litigation lasted for 30 months.
 
 On January 24, 2018, the forum slammed the department, saying the scheme was in place on the day of his death. The judges ordered the divisional manager of the company’s Vijayapura wing to pay Janabai Rs 7 lakh with 9% interest from the time of her filing the case. The firm was asked to pay Rs 5,000 to the woman for causing agony and Rs 2,000 towards court expenses. The complaint against the state DGP was dismissed.
 
 
