PATNA: The universities in state will now utilize government   (GeM) portal for all purchases with a view to ensuring financial discipline. At the same time, the bank accounts of teachers and non-teaching staff of colleges and universities will be interlinked at the earliest for facilitating payment of monthly salaries through RTGS.

 These decisions were taken at a high-level meeting held under the chairmanship of governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik at Raj Bhavan here on Tuesday. The meeting was attended by education department principal secretary R K Mahajan, governor’s principal secretary Vivek Kumar Singh and the vice-chancellors of all the universities in the state.
 
 Addressing the meeting, Malik exhorted the VCs to expedite implementation of all the decisions aimed at reforming the ailing system of higher education as the people were looking at them with high hopes. He made it very clear that any obstacle coming in way of implementation must be sorted out at the earliest and no excuse should be tolerated at any level. He thanked the vice-chancellors and local administration for conducting elections to the students’ unions of different universities peacefully and in a fair manner.
 
 The chancellor reiterated his resolve to ensure regular attendance of students and teachers in educational institutions and strict adherence to academic and examination calendars. He said the proposed combined entrance test for admission to the two-year BEd course in all the teachers’ training colleges in the state should be held as per rules and regulations and fairness should be maintained at all costs.
 
 Expressing concern over irregular payment of salaries and arrears of teachers and non-teaching staff in different universities and inordinate delay in payment of retirement benefits, Malik pleaded for initiating necessary steps for ensuring timely payment.
 
 Mahajan announced that the state education department will hold a separate meeting of registrars for discussing the issue of affiliation of degree colleges. Allocation of funds under different heads to the universities would also be discussed at the meeting.
 
 Vivek Kumar Singh said now onward the reports of VCs at their monthly meeting at Raj Bhavan would be discussed at micro level and a system of online reporting would also be developed. Besides the universities, the colleges will also be linked as information point to the new reporting system so that the developments going on at college level could be directly evaluated, he added.
 
 The meeting expressed its satisfaction at the progress made in the execution of choice-based credit system (CBCS) and it decided that the new syllabi based on CBCS would be released in June so that the same may be implemented from July this year.
 
 The VCs were directed to introduce biometric system and install CCTV in all colleges and university departments for ensuring regular attendance of teachers, employees and students.
 
 It was decided that L N Mithila University and Magadh University will announce the dates of ‘Tarang’ (inter-university cultural activities’ competition) and ‘Eklavya’ (inter-university sports competition) at the earliest so that the universities may make necessary preparations for participating in these events. 
 
 
