Nagpur: In a ray of hope for engineering and pharmacy colleges in the state, there is a big jump of over 52,000 in number of   aspirants in comparison to last year. State’s most popular entrance test would be conducted on May 10 and results would be out by June 3, after which the admissions would be conducted through centralized admissions process (CAP).

 
  
  
 Officials from the directorate of technical education ( ) speculated that the number could increase further as there were still two more days left for completing online registration on payment of Rs500 late fee. Apart from engineering and pharmacy, this year even the admissions for BSc (agriculture) courses would be conducted through the MHT-CET.
 
 At a time when a majority of colleges are facing dearth of students, the increase in number of MHT-CET takers would provide them some succour. Three colleges have already applied for closure in Nagpur division, while many of them have sent letters for closing down their non-performing branches like information technology and electronics and telecommunications.
 
 “It’s certainly a good news for the colleges offering engineering and pharmacy courses. In Nagpur division comprising six districts, we’ve designated 71 examination centres for the convenience of aspirants. This time, BSc (agriculture) candidates would also appear in this test, although their admissions would be conducted by Pune-based Maharashtra   (MCAER),” joint director of technical education in Nagpur Gulabrao   told TOI.
 
 As per latest statistics released by Mumbai-based competent authority for conducting the test, seven out of eight divisions have witnessed a steep increase in the number of candidates applying for MHT-CET led by Pune with over 10,000 students, while Nagpur division has an increase of over 4,700 students. Curiously, Mumbai division witnessed a sharp drop of almost 2,000 students.
 
 DTE officials, however, cautioned that just rise in numbers couldn’t be taken as guarantee that all of them would be taking admissions in the engineering and pharmacy courses. Even last year, the number of candidates was more than the total seats, but very few ended up actually taking admissions thus leading to vacancy of over 60,000 seats in state colleges.
 
 
