Hyderabad: Rooting for startups and smaller companies,  , the founder CMD of the country’s largest biopharmaceutical company Biocon on Wednesday said the future will belong to these companies as they will be more agile and innovative in their approach.

 “I believe the future will belong to a vast number of fast moving companies that are small, nimble and entrepreneurial. These companies will constantly evolve and reinvent themselves to adapt with the changing pace and face of new technologies. We today live in a world where creative disruption is radicalising the marketplace such that leadership is transient and innovation is king,” Shaw said while addressing students at the convocation of the 2018 batch of the Institute of Management Technology (IMT), Hyderabad. She also suggested that the institute consider setting up an incubator to nurture student entrepreneurs. Citing the instances of Eastman Kodak, National Semiconductor, Sprint and US Steel that could not withstand the onslaught of time, she said it is the new age companies such as Facebook, Uber and Netflix that have taken over and are successful. She pointed out that data is quickly becoming the 21st-century’s economic fuel, replacing oil as an essential resource for the global economy. “Data science, which allows us to make sense of Big Data, is helping us find relationships between distinct kinds of information, thus generating new insights, creating new knowledge and leading to breakthrough innovation. Big Data can be the most potent instrument for transformative social change the world has ever seen,” she added. Shaw added that the country is gaining global recognition for the quality of its data scientists and said that the exponential growth in the fields of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning is also leading to a huge demand for highly skilled professionals. “Over the last one year, the number of analytics jobs in India has almost doubled. As more data analytics projects get outsourced to India, due to a dearth of such skills across the world, we are likely to see a boom in this field in the years ahead,” she added.
 
 Stating that technology is evolving at a rapid pace, she said new technologies like Cloud Computing, Blockchain, AI, Data Science and Quantum Computing will provide multiple opportunities for “disruptive innovation” as well as new employment opportunities in the coming days. 
 
 
