GURUGRAM:   has taken over the responsibility for maintenance of civic infrastructure and basic amenities in industrial areas across Gurugram, giving in to a long-pending demand of city industrialists who have so far been carrying the burden of double taxes to get regular civic services.

 Now, with MCG signing an MoU with Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) in this regard, industries operating out of sectors 18, 19, 20, 34, 35, 37A and 37B will no more have to pay maintenance charges to   for civic facilities. They only need to pay property taxes, as per the existing rates, to MCG, which will, in turn, maintain and repair roads, sewer lines and other infrastructures. 
 
 “Under the new agreement, MCG will collect property taxes as usual while HSIIDC will work as the maintenance agency. At the end of the year, HSIIDC will have to submit the details of expenditures incurred to MCG which will pay up,” said an MCG official. “The new arrangement will provide a big relief to industrialists, who will not have to pay maintenance charges anymore.”
 
 Till now, businessmen have been paying   at the rate of Rs 5 per square yards to MCG and maintenance charges at the rate of Rs 14-16 per square metre to HSIIDC. An operation and maintenance committee has been deciding the maintenance charge for individual unit every year based on the upkeep and repair work required in that particular year. 
 
 Also, a committee will be formed to discuss and sort out any differences that may crop up in future between MCG and HSIIDC. If it fails to come to a consensus on any particular matter, it will be forwarded to  , principal secretary, the department of urban local bodies. Industrialists welcomed the move and said it would improve the quality of basic services in industrial sectors. “The industries have for long been facing the burden of double taxes. We welcome the development and hope HSIIDC will continue maintaining the areas as it has been till now,” said  , president, Udyog Vihar Industrial Association.
 
 
