 Every time his teammate visited him at his Taleigao residence,   broke into tears. Even on his last birthday – his 89th -- when a group of former footballers showed up without notice, Abreu took some time to recognise them, and when he did, the tears flowed again, as he listened to tales from the good old days when he was almost unbeatable in a four-man defence.
 
  The sprightly Candu, as he was called, was looking forward to his 90th birthday on April 23. There would have been more visits, another cause for celebration and another vivid recollection of those good old days when he was, by some distance, the best defender that Salgaocar   Club and Goa had.
  
  Unfortunately, that won’t happen. One of Goa’s oldest footballer, Abreu died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, but that won’t stop fans from remembering the heroic defender known to his teammates as Salvatore (Portuguese for saviour).
  
  “He was indeed Salvatore,” remembered  , his teammate at Salgaocar in the early sixties when Salgaocar won the Primeira Divisao – Senior Division League – four times in six years.
  
  “Candu used to give everything he had on the field. He was extremely disciplined and would rarely commit a foul. His discipline probably enamoured him to everyone,” said Sadekar, 83.
  
  Salgaocar had assembled a crack side when the club was formed in 1956 and Candu simply towered over everyone else. Born in Taleigao, Candu’s boots started doing the talking at his village club, Clube Sao   de Taleigao, after making his debut aged just 15.
  
  In 1950, Candu joined Academica and, for some time, was the only Goan in the pack which comprised mostly of Portuguese academics. He represented Academica for about seven seasons as a dependable left-back before he was recruited by Salgoacar in 1957 where he became Salvatore for rescuing the cub time and again with his feats of dare devilry.
  
  “I saw Candu only towards the fag end of his career but his commitment was total. Even after retirement, he led a disciplined life,” said Arjuna awardee Brahmanand Shankhwalkar, his neighbour and regular visitor at his residence.
  
  Candu pulled on the famous Salgaocar jersey for 12 years and retired only in 1969 with plenty of juice still left in his boots. He was part of the Salgaocar squad that was invited by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at his official residence in 1962 and was bitterly disappointed that Salgaocar didn’t go too far in the DCM Trophy that year.
  
  His teammates suggest there was nothing that Candu could not do on the field. Whether it was being ultra-defensive at the back with some of the cleanest tackles you could see, to scoring some stunning goals, notably from corner-kicks, Candu could do it all.
  
  Goa’s Salvatore is now no more and leaves behind bagful of memories. Besides, of course, tears.
