CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh District Consumer Protection Council has decided to call cinema   in Chandigarh for a meeting to discuss exorbitant prices of eatables and beverages inside cinema halls and prohibition of outside   in cinema halls. 

 
 
  
 A decision to the effect was taken in a meeting called on Wednesday after representations were made to the CPC. Also, the Bombay high Court recently raised the issue of exorbitant prices of eatables and beverages inside cinema halls and prohibition of outside food inside.
 
 An official said on condition of anonymity, “The meeting was organised taking cognisance of the Bombay high court ruling and representations received by the DC office. We have decided to call cinema owners for a meeting. We are waiting for minutes of the meeting to be approved as we will know when the next meeting will be called only after that. But it will be held in 15 days.”
 
 The DCPC is waiting for a detailed order from the Bombay High court before coming to a conclusion. Sources said based on the meetings and court order, a policy might be framed to regulate prices in cinema halls.
 
 On Monday, TOI reported about two city-based advocates raising the issue and requesting the deputy commissioner to intervene.
 
 Advocate  , a member of DCPC, who had also been raising the issue said, “First of all, multiplexes and cinemas should provide free water, which is a basic human need. About food, either there should be no sales in the complex or the patrons should be permitted to carry their own food stuff. Restricting movie goers from carrying their food stuff and selling their food stuff at exorbitant prices is unfair and restrictive trade practice. Moreover, many patients also go to movies and can’t eat outside food. Finally, there is no law which provides such powers to owners of multiplexes/theatres.”
 
 On April 7, advocate   wrote to the deputy commissioner-cum-chairman, consumer protection council about control of exorbitantly-priced food and beverages in cinema halls and multiplexes, FSSAI markings and approvals on food products sold in cinema halls/multiplexes and unauthorised restrictions on cinema-goers.
 
 “Customers do not have a choice and vendors use their monopolistic position to exploit them. The   is the appropriate body to take corrective action in this regard. Mutiplexes function on the basis of licence issued by the district magistrate and ticket prices are also subject to regulation and approval. Therefore, all activities and sales at the licenced premises should be regulated, especially with regard to price and quality,” he said.
 
 
