By: 
 

 The state government had announced last year that they would improve the standards of school education, a thrust in the right direction but the state needs to focus more on quality improvement in higher education sector.
 
 The first thing I would like to hear from finance minister Thomas Isaac’s budget speech is an announcement that the government would provide special funding to select colleges and universities that would help them raise standards and earn a respectable place in the league of prominent institutions, nationally. The colleges and universities should be chosen based on their potential. Both government and private institutions should be made eligible to become part of this result-oriented initiative. I would suggest that it should work on a project mode under a central monitoring system. The funding should be for a fairly long period of time and there should be a mechanism to ensure that the institutions strive to achieve the professed goals.
 
 Second, I would like to see in the budget a marvellous proposal for setting up a premier state institution for higher learning. This institution, like the most successful IITs or the   in the country, should be on par with any other state owned/ state funded premier institutions in the country. This institution should, over the years, be able to become the synonym for excellence in the area of discipline it focuses on. As of now, we don’t have any institution of such grandeur.
 
 It’s high time that we focus on research activities. I would like to see the state government announcing a major research project in the lines of   car project and the like. The fully state-funded project can either focus on a local or global needs that would positively touch the lives of people in the years to come.
 
 There is also a need for technology intervention in agriculture. We were an agrarian society and several factors scared people away from it. Technology should play an important role in making agriculture more profitable, effective and professional. There should be proposals and programmes to explore the use of technology in agriculture.
 
 Internationalisation of higher education by making   as the hub of education is a long cherished dream. A special purpose vehicle may be formed for this exclusive purpose. Also, I would like to see the finance minister announcing a government company for carrying out the software development of universities and to conduct the logistics of examinations. This would improve the efficiency of universities to a greater extend.
 
