CHANDIGARH: Alleging ‘deep-rooted conspiracy’ in the April 13 clash between Hindu right-wing activists and a Dalit group in   on the issue of renaming Goal Chowk as Sambhidhan Chowk, Union minister   has demanded that the police should make it public as to who fired bullets.

 
 A Dalit youth, Yashwant (19), who was hit by a bullet on his head in the incident had died in Ludhiana’s Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) on April 29. The clash took place after Hindu right-wing activists had installed a board at the chowk with Dr B R Ambedkar’s picture on it. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sampla raised various questions. “Why can’t the police make the names public of those who fired shots? Why did the local authorities failed to intervene for three-four hours when a group was there at the spot to install the board?” The Union minister further added, “If the two groups were at a distance of around 40 feet of each other, how can a pistol or revolver bullet directly hit the victim’s head from such a distance?” Sampla said it was ridiculous that the police have videos of the dispute or arguments but not of the firing incident. He added that the police should give details about those having unlicensed weapons.
 
 The Union minister alleged that it appeared that the state government had planned a conspiracy because it was being propagated that the RSS was involved in the incident. “Rather   workers were fuelling the dispute from both sides,” alleged Sampla.
 
 Kapurthala   Sandeep Kumar Sharma told TOI that it was difficult for the police to say as to who fired bullets till the forensic examination report comes and the investigation is complete. “We have not yet received the forensic report about the first bullet sent to the Chandigarh-based Central Forensic Science Laboratory. Since we have received the second bullet from DMCH, Ludhiana, on Tuesday morning, we will soon be sending it for forensic examination,” said Sharma. He added that it takes around 15-20 days for a report to come.
 
 The SSP said the Hindu right-wing leaders present at the spot during the clash were not accompanied by the police personnel provided to them for their security. He claimed that bullets were not fired from any police personnel’s weapon, otherwise they would have reported it. Asked about police or local administration’s failure to control the situation when activities of installing board at the site was on for two to three hours before the firing incident, the SSP said the police were present at the spot and were persuading both sides to calm down. “But the bullets were fired in the dark. We did check the   footage of the area but who fired shots is still a mystery,” said the SSP.
 
