MUMBAI:   such as autorickshaws, Kaali-Peeli taxis and aggregator cabs like   and Uber were unavailable for thousands of daily commuters in the suburbs on Wednesday afternoon when drivers preferred to stay off roads due to fear of being attacked. The worst hit were the domestic and international airports where scores of fliers were stranded for want of cabs. “It is frustrating arriving in Mumbai and being welcomed by a deserted taxi stand,” said  , who arrived from Bengaluru.

 Other passengers too fumed, while waiting for taxis for over two to three hours and calling up their relatives and friends for assistance. The autos were plying early morning and the number dropped gradually before all autos were off roads by noon. For passengers who took autos in the morning, some of the drivers charged fixed rates—Rs 300 to Rs 500 to drive to the airport or railway stations such as LTTor Bandra Terminus.
 
 Passengers who had booked tickets for long-distance journeys or who had to catch their flights paid a hefty price.
 
 Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros admitted that there were no taxis in suburbs in the afternoon. “During the entire day (till 5 pm when the bandh was called off), just about 30% taxis were plying on the streets-—most of them in the island city,” he said. The problem with the suburbs was that protesters were in large numbers and pelting stones at vehicles on Western Express Highway (which is close to the domestic airport), at   and   (close to T2 international airport). This prevented drivers from aggregator cabs to come to airport for the pick-ups, sources said.
 
 The sources further stated that most Ola and Uber drivers had logged off the platform in the suburbs, fearing attacks from those agitating on streets. “Nobody wants to take a risk. We lost business for a day, and passengers also faced inconvenience as lot of them depend on Ola, Uber or autos for travel in suburbs,” said an Uber driver partner. In the morning, some of the aggregator cabs were available, but they were at a surge price upto 2 x and some for 3 x. “We were stranded as the public transport on road was crippled on bandh day,” said  , who regularly takes an aggregator cab or autorickshaw. Many preferred staying back home as shops downed shutters.
 
