NOIDA: The new  , which was to be implemented in December and then postponed till January, is now likely to be put in place only in February. The   on Thursday said it has extended the old agreements of parking contractors for 41 parking sites in the city till January 31.

 The decision to extend the old contracts has been taken as the companies for   in 96 sites are yet to be finalised, officials said.
 
 “There has been a need to extend the old parking contracts, which ended on November 30 last year, as we are yet to finalise the companies who will take up the new contracts,” said Sandeep Chandra, chief projects engineer, Noida Authority. “We had initiated tenders for hiring contractors, but in November out of the four zones, we received 14 bids for only two small clusters. The other two clusters did not receive a single bid. Hence, we cancelled the tender and floated it again after dividing the city into six clusters instead of four,” he added.
 
 “The technical bids for the fresh tender will be opened on January 10. Since we could not leave the city without any authorised parking attendants, we extended the agreements of old contractors,” he added.
 
 In its effort to de-congest the city, the Noida Authority had on November 3, 2017 revamped its old parking policy. The new policy is aimed at regulating parking on the roads and ensuring removal of illegal parking lots, besides placing a restraint on the use of public spaces by vehicles.
 
 Meanwhile, the Authority on Thursday opened the financial bids to appoint an agency to manage the Rs 212 crore multi-level parking facility in Sector 18 and short-listed a company, which is likely to handle it. 
 
 Once the multi-level parking facility is operational, motorists will be charged a parking fee as per the location of parking of vehicles, which will be either in the facility or on the street. Within the parking complex, four-wheelers will be charged Rs 30 for the first two hours and then will be charged Rs 10 per hour additionally. Similarly, two-wheelers will have to pay Rs 10 for first two hours and Rs 5 per subsequent hour. In an attempt to deter motorists from parking in the congested market area, the Authority also set the parking on street rates at Rs 20 and Rs 10 per hour for four-wheelers and two-wheelers respectively.
 
 
