NAGPUR: A video of 20-year-old Nisha   committing suicide by consuming poison and allegedly sharing it with her boyfriend went viral on Friday. The Bhandara police, however, are not jumping the gun and have registered it as an accidental death. On Saturday, the police recorded statements of Nisha’s family members. 

 Nisha, a third year science student, had dramatically ended her life by consuming poison on January 24 at her residence at   village in   tehsil of Bhandara. She was rushed to the district hospital at Bhandara where the doctors declared her dead. 
 
 Nisha was scheduled to have an arranged marriage on February 4.
 
 In the video, Nisha can been see consuming a ‘thick dark-coloured potion’ which even overflowed from her mouth. She is alleged to have sent the video to her boyfriend, identified by police as  , while taking the drastic step. 
 
 The police, who have sent the liquid for a chemical analysis, have now prima facie claimed that it was not poison which may have killed her. As per a source in Lakhandur police, there was another bottle close to Nisha’s body which had some liquid in it. 
 
 Reports had Nisha’s brother   blaming Borkar for blackmailing and harassment that led her to take the drastic step. Borkar lives in Lakhandur town and the two apparently met while Nisha used to go to college. Police are not sure how deep or old the friendship was. 
 
 Bhandara police sources said Nisha, in her suicide note which was found in the mobile phone cover, has not blamed either Borkar or anyone else for her decision. An officer said Nisha had written that she was in no position to marry Borkar and also bid him adieu. 
 
 “Nisha has also claimed in the note to have taken the step unable to cope up with the stress building upon her,” said the officer. “She added that she had take medicine to alleviate the piling tension insider her.” 
 
 Pauni sub divisional police officer Prabhakar Tikkas said the mobile phone call details of the concerned persons are being sought now. “We have seized the deceased’s mobile phone for a forensic test. The suicide note will also sent for authentication. We are not going to register any offence arbitrarily,” he said.
 
 Borkar has been called by the police for questioning.
 
 
