THANJAVUR: Alleging anomalies in settling claims pertaining to crop insurance, specifically with the primary agriculture cooperative credit societies ( ) and agriculture department, farmers staged a black flag protest at the grievance day meeting held in   on Tuesday. The district collector has assured to initiate criminal action against erring officials in the cooperative as well as agriculture departments.

 Farmers alleged that out of the 92,000 farmers who had insured their crops, the claims of 12,000 have not been disbursed. Also, farmers who got their claims complained of anomalies with their settlement, they said.
 
 Speaking at the grievance day meeting,  , secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, said that farmers had received varying amounts to claims from nationalized banks and primary agriculture cooperative credit societies.
 
 “A farmer from   owning four acres of land had insured two acres with a nationalized bank and another two with PACCS. Though the area of land and crop damage were the same, the claim received from PACCS was meagre when compared to the claim received from the nationalized bank,” he alleged.
 
 He also alleged that it was found that the premium amount collected, to the tune of Rs 15 lakh, from farmers hailing from   in Peravurani taluk was not properly credited to the concerned insurance company. This amount was collected by the agriculture department directly from the farmers, he added.
 
 “Actually the claim should have been disbursed to all the farmers who had remitted their premium amount before the end of May 2017. However, it was not done. During the tripartite meeting convened by the collector to discuss the crop insurance anomalies, the district collector assured to settle everything within 15 days. The meeting was attended by the joint director and deputy director of the agriculture department, joint registrar of a cooperative society and Lead Bank manager along with functionaries of farmers association. However, nothing has fructified so far”, he said.
 
 “At this juncture, the collector has again told that he would convene another tripartite meeting to amicably settle the issue. Meanwhile, the samba paddy crop cultivated during this season has started to wither. Farmers are clueless on what to do,” he added.
 
 
