VADODARA:  , the former student of M S University’s Faculty of Fine Arts, who was in the centre of an ‘obscenity row’ that had rocked the university 11 years back, allegedly set   on fire.

 On Friday afternoon, Chandra Mohan, who is a native of Madan Pally village of Andhra Pradesh’s Warangal district, reached the university head office to meet MSU vice-chancellor (VC) professor Parimal Vyas to make a representation against the delay in declaration of his result. Chandra Mohan himself admitted that he had set the office on fire as he was “frustrated” by the delay in declaration of his final year results for which he is waiting since last 11 years. 
 
 It was on May 9, 2007 that ‘obscenity row’ had hit the university’s famed faculty when Niraj Jain, who was then with the  , had entered the faculty premises and objected to paintings of Chandra Mohan, the final year student of masters in visual arts, who had painted Gods and Goddess nude as part of his final year evaluation work. 
 
 “I have made written representations before MSU officials at least 40 times in all these years. But nobody bothered to give me a reply,” said Chandra Mohan, who was first apprehended by university’s vigilance staff and later picked up by Sayajigunj police from the university office. 
 
 Chandra Mohan had reached the waiting room located just adjacent to VC’s chamber at around 4 pm. While both VC and registrar Neerja Jaiswal were in Gandhinagar, VC’s personal secretary Jayakumar Nair had asked the former student to give his representation in writing. “When he inquired about the VC, I informed him that the VC was not in town and he can write down his representation which will be handed over to the VC,” Nair told TOI. 
 
 “I even handed over some blank papers to him and he was sitting on the sofa and writing down something on the blank papers. Suddenly, he came in front of me and showed me a revolver. He threatened me not to move from my place and locked the waiting room from inside. Later, he took out a plastic bottle from his bag and started throwing petrol from the bottle on the door of VC’s chamber and lit it with a match stick,” said Nair. 
 
 “When the fire started, he asked me to move out of the premises and I rushed out of the room,” Nair added. 
 
 Commotion broke out started inside the university head office as fire that had started from the waiting room area spread to adjacent chambers and smoke covered the entire building of the head office. 
 
 University staff at the head office rushed out of the building while fire brigade officials and police reached the spot.
 
 Syndicate member Jigar Inamdar received minor injuries on his head when he rushed inside the waiting room of the university head office. Inamdar was trying to help in the rescue work by breaking glasses of windows of the waiting room when a small portion of the false ceiling of the room fell on him. 
 
 “We are verifying whether the weapon that the former student used to threaten the university staff was fake or real,” said Gautam Parmar., deputy commissioner of police 
 
 Fire officials said that by the time they reached the head office, the ground floor lobby where the VC’s chamber is located was engulfed by smoke. “Two teams were formed to handle the situation. One battled the flames on the ground floor while the other ensured that those on the upper floors were brought out safely,” said station officer (fire) Parth Brahmbhatt. Furniture and other items as well as papers that could be documents were gutted
 
 Had got distinction, my life ruined: Chandra Mohan
 
 Vadodara: Chandra Mohan, the artist, who had set university head office on fire, said that he poured petrol as his life was ruined. “I had got distinction in my class. In fact, I had scored better than all other students in my batch. But since 11 years, they are not disclosing my results and they have ruined my life,” he said to media persons, before he was picked up by Sayajigunj police. 
 
 ‘MSU decided to withheld results in 2009’
 
 Vadodara: While Chandra Mohan is claiming that the university is not declaring his results since 2007 – the year when ‘obscenity row’ had rocked MSU, according to a former syndicate member the university has already decided never to declare the former student’s results. “A committee which was formed after the fine arts incident had submitted its report in 2009. The committee had already recommended that the results should not be declared by the university,” said former syndicate member Pragnesh Shah.
 
 Science faculty staffer also picked up
 
 Vadodara: Amid the chaos at MSU head office, a staffer of Faculty of Science was also picked up by the cops, which sparked another controversy. D K Patel, who works with Faculty of Science, was questioning preparedness of MSU to tackle such emergencies as a couple of staffers who were on the first floor were coming down using a wooden ladder. 
 
 The emergency exit gate near the canteen side was locked at the time of the incident. Patel was questioning why the university is keeping such doors locked.
 
 But the cops picked up Patel. When Sayajigunj police inspector Haresh Vora was asked about his name, he mocked that his name was “Ramo Bharwad”. 
 
 Facing repeated questions by media persons on the spot, Vora claimed that as per Supreme Court’s directive, nobody can ask name of the person who has been taken in custody. Interestingly, the cops had registered no offence against Patel nor shown anything on record. 
 
 Head office to remain dysfunctional 
 
 Vadodara: M S University head office will remain dysfunctional for at least a week now due to Friday’s fire. MSU engineer N K Ojha said the fire has destroyed the entire waiting room, visitor’s room near the VCs chamber and the cabin of the personal secretary to the VC apart from the passage of executive wing and door of VC’s chamber. 
 
 “All the documents, furniture and computer system have been damaged while fire has not damaged VC’s chamber,” said Ojha, adding that the power supply at the head office has also been cut. 
 
 “It will take nearly a week to restore the power supply as we will have to do the electric wiring in the wing again and provide an undertaking before the Madhya Gujarat Vij Company Limited restores the power supply,” he said, adding that alternate arrangements will also be done for the VC and registrar to carry out their day to day work. 
 
 
