After a BTech student going to college in an autorickshaw on Wednesday was allegedly sexually harassed by the driver, who played a vulgar movie on his mobile phone, we speak to   women who share their personal experiences of travelling in autos and cabs and traffic regulation authorities on what necessary steps are being taken to ensure the safety of female commuters.

  
  A news- clipping from TOI
 
 
 
 Tulika Arora, 24, a software consultant and resident of Rajendra Nagar, says, “I frequently travel in cabs and autorickshaws. A few days ago, I took an auto from my residence to my office in  . I had to pick up one of my colleagues on the way and so, we took a longer route via Rampur Garden. On the way, the autowallah kept staring from the rear-view mirror. These days, it feels unsafe to travel in the autos and I feel cabs are much safer.”
 
  
  Often auto-drivers give awkward stares from the rare- view mirror
 
 
 
 Priyanca Khan, 26, an architect and resident of a colony on University Road, says, “One of my close friends recently booked a cab for Station Road from her residence in Civil Lines. After reaching the venue, she started receiving vulgar calls and messages from unknown numbers. It continued until the next day and she was forced to block everyone and later, change her number. One of the callers told her that the cab driver had shared her details with his contacts.”
 
  
  Sonal Kapoor (in blue top) and Swati Yadav pose for us with an auto driver at DD Puram. Autowallahs start playing lewd songs and videos during rides, say Bareilly women
 
 
 
 Prachi Nagpal, 23, who works with a real-estate company and resident of Old City, says, “Around a month ago, I took an auto from my house to office in Civil Lines. On the way, the driver gave a lift to someone known to him, who sat next to him. Within a few minutes, they started holding an obscene conversation and the two started browsing through some lewd pictures on their phone. I immediately stepped down and took a rickshaw instead, as I had already covered more than half of the distance.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 An MBA student and resident of   by-pass road, on the condition of anonymity, says, “A few days ago, I took an auto in the evening from my coaching in Rampur Garden to my residence. In the middle of the ride, he took a detour and rode on a deserted road. Upon questioning him, he said, ‘yeh route thoda sa lamba hai but ismein traffic jam nahi milega, kyunki aaj shaadiyan bahut hain toh bahut rush hoga.’ I insisted that we take a longer route but he started arguing, used abusive language and dropped me on a deserted road.”
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
