BENGALURU: Eleven days after the education department launched a portal for parents to apply for 1.4 lakh school seats under the   quota in the state, the software has developed glitches, activists alleged. 

  The site not only hangs while details are being entered, but it also delays entering of OTPs. Server errors and system crashes have left hundreds of parents helpless, said the activists, adding that with online applications being the only way for parents to apply, it is crucial the system functions optimally. 
 
 Ramakrishnappa, an autorickshaw driver, has been trying to submit an application for one of his three children since February 20, the day the facility was launched. Despite repeated visits to BengaluruOne centres and block education offices where citizens can apply under the quota, he was only able to submit the form on March 2.
 
  "I want at least one of my children to get a good education. They ask for Rs 30,000-40,000 fee for admission in private schools, so we thought this is a good scheme. On the first day itself, we were told there is a server problem. I made it a point to go two-three times a week to check if the application will go through, but it didn't until Friday," said the resident of  , west Bengaluru. 
 
 According to members of the   (RTE STUPA), an organisation of 600 parents and activists, the government needs to take responsibility for such glitches.
 
  RTE STUPA is setting up 32 online application centres in the city, and one each in Mandya, Mangaluru and   districts from March 3 to help parents file applications till March 21. 
 
 "While the authorities are claiming a few thousand applications have been received, we are facing a tough time helping parents. The server is still posing a problem, applications sometimes go through if they are filed at odd hours. Even the software development centre executives using the portal are having trouble with it," B N Yogananda, RTE STUPA, told a press conference here on Friday. 
 
 Ramesh  , member of Indus Action, an NGO, said, "The act is being misused and deserving people are missing out. If more needy people apply, the chances of fraudsters securing seats will reduce," he said.
 
  
 
 
  Dial helpline number 7022422495 or 08030474949, a toll-free number started by partner organisation Indus Action, to know your nearest online application centre. 
 
 
