KOLKATA: The   Mentor Group — set up in 2011 with 10 members to provide recommendations for turning the prestigious university into a “pre-eminent institution of international repute” — has sought its own dissolution. The move comes a day after the university’s bicentenary celebrations came to an end on Friday. 

 The mentor group’s recommendation was part of its sixth and final report to CM   on Saturday. This finally brings the curtains down on the bittersweet relation between the mentor group and the Presidency administration over the past six years. 
 
 The group has had illustrious academics, including  , Nobel Laureate and a celebrated alumnus of the institute, as an adviser to chairman Sugato Bose. 
 
 “Now that the   and other statutory bodies of the university are functioning, our work is done. We understand that the Presidency University Act says the government “may” set up a mentor group as and when needed, but it is not a requirement. Our role was to provide a broad and long-term strategic vision during the transition from college to university and its immediate aftermath,” Bose said on Saturday. 
 
 The mentor group’s reports should continue to serve as a guide for the university in the future and should be readily available on the university website, Sugata Bose said. 
 
 The chairman added that he had mentioned in his report to the CM that the mentor group be dissolved on a suitable date during the 2018 calendar year because it may not be possible to do so immediately. “We have advised that the Governing Board should always have eminent academics and educationists as members since the university will continue to need independent, outside advice for some time to come. We, the mentor group members will be happy to extend any suggestion in our capacity as and when required,” Bose said. 
 
 Differences often cropped up between the mentor group members and Presidency authorities in the past six years, primarily over allegations of senior teachers being “forced” to leave the university and seat vacancies. 
 
 According to government sources, the vice-chancellor is likely to be put in the helm of affairs without any external committee to suggest or recommend on issues related to the university any further. “The Governing Board shall remain the highest decision-making body which will now have to evaluate proposals and also implement them. The government is unlikely to appoint any more external experts,” an insider said. 
 
 In its final report, the mentor group has expressed concern over vacancies in four of the five Distinguished University Professorship chair. It has suggested that the professorships may be offered to outstanding candidates who may be prepared to come for at least two years with leave from their home institutions. 
 
 
