AMBALA: The district police in a joint operation with   police seized a huge cache of illicit liquor from a factory property on Jalbera road in   city on Friday. The police have confiscated a consignment of 1,639 boxes of liquor which was being smuggled to the Gujarat.

 
 Mehar Singh, Ambala Sadar police station head officer informed TOI that the property belongs to Anil Shahi, a resident of Kanch Ghar, Ambala who is out of the city since the demise of his father.
 
 The cops contacted Anil through phone and during the questioning he revealed that 15 days ago he had rented out the facility to   and Suresh Kumar, contractors from Punjab. The Gujarat police on May 21arrested Kapla, a truck driver, ferrying illegal liquor in Amraivadi area of Gujarat. During the interrogation Mohammad disclosed that the liquor was laden from Ambala district in Haryana. Further investigating the case, the Gujarat cops reached Ambala along with the driver. They approached Ambala police and excise department officials for assistance to zero down on godown from where the booze was loaded. The teams conducted a search operation for 4 to 5 hours and finally located the godown from as the driver was unsure of the location. The police during the raid found 1,639 boxes of liquor of different brands stored in the closed factory property. A liquor making machine was also seized from the property.
 
 Balbir Singh, excise inspector was summoned to identify liquor brands. Crazy Romeo rum, whiskey in plastic bottles and Blue Sky Dry gin quarters in glass bottles without any batches pasted were found aplenty. The labels pasted on the bottles, signify that Crazy Romeo Rum and whiskey were manufactured in Sirhind and  , whereas the Blue Sky Dry Gin is a product of   and Bottlers Private Limited in Banur. The consignment includes 641 boxes of rum, 904 of whiskey and 94 boxes of gin quarters. All the boxes had ‘For Sale in Arunachal Pradesh Only’ imprinted on them. Ajit, a watchman and his wife, who are caretaker of the property were present at the place during the raid. Ajit informed police that the owner of factory was Anil Shahi. Mehar Singh, sub-inspector, said, “We have registered a case against Anil Shahi, the factory owner tenants Sohan Singla and Suresh Kumar, truck driver   and other accomplices under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code and various sections of Excise Act.
 
 
 Mehar further stated that Anil clarified that he had rented the facility, but he has not produced any documentary evidence supporting his statement.
 
