Bhubaneswar: The fire mishap at a garment store in Cuttack on Sunday has put the the housing regulatory bodies in the districts under the scanner for allegedly approved building plans by compromising on safety norms. 

  "Our law (Orissa Fire Service Act 1993) does not permit us to check each and every highrise and commercial building across the state. It clearly says the onus of applying for fire certificates lies on the owners of the buildings concerned. They must first apply for fire safety licence. Only then can we inspect the buildings and grant certificates," said a senior fire services officer. 
 
 At present, the development authorities in the districts are authorized to approve building plans only if the applicants (owners of buildings) comply with the necessary fire safety norms besides other riders set by the authorities.
 
  "We receive very few applications, referred to by the development authorities. Law also permits defaulters to approach us directly, seeking inspection of their buildings and subsequent fire safety certificate. But people ignore the fire safety norms," the officer said, adding that the housing regulatory bodies should not approve such plans if they find violation of fire safety compliance. 
 
 Ever since the Orissa Fire Service Act 1993 was framed in October last year, the fire personnel have been conducting surprise raids on shopping malls, hotels, hospitals and apartments. Officials were shocked to find little fire prevention and safety measures at those units. Deadlines were issued to the defaulters for putting in place adequate fire safety mechanism, but to no avail
 
 "We do not think the owners of buildings will wake up unless stringent action is taken against them. Police cases should be registered against errant builders for endangering the lives of people," said Siddharth Das, a senior lawyer. 
 
 The Odisha fire services has planned to launch online receipt of applications for quick delivery of fire safety certificates. All fire stations will be equipped with computers to start the online system at the earliest. 
 
 The state has over 310 fire stations across its 30 districts. The issue of fire safetyassumed significance in the wake of the fire tragedy at SUM Hospital in October 2016. At least 20 patients had died in the fire. 
 
 
