NEW DELHI: The income tax department has filed four prosecution cases against former finance minister  's son Karti, wife Nalini and daughter-in-law Srinidhi on Friday under the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) Act for allegedly failing to disclose properties and investments in the UK and the US estimated to be worth Rs 9.5 crore. The charges were denied by the trio, who said omissions, if any, had been corrected in revised returns.

 
 The tax department listed investments made by the family members in acquiring a property in Cambridge worth about Rs 5.4 crore, apart from two investments by Karti's   in the US and UK estimated to be worth over Rs 4 crore, a senior official said. Besides the Cambridge acquisition, Karti allegedly invested over Rs 3.3 crore in a company in the US through Chess Global, which the tax department claims is associated with him. Karti allegedly made another investment of Rs 80 lakh in a company in the UK.
 
 If convicted, the Act provides for "rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to seven years and with fine".
 
 A source in the I-T department said Karti, his mother and his wife had failed to disclose these assets and investments in their income tax returns despite the fact that they were earlier given an opportunity through the one-time amnesty scheme to disclose all their foreign assets.
 
 The Chidambarams were treated as wilful defaulters for not disclosing their foreign assets, a ground to face prosecution under the Black Money Act. Responding to the cases, Karti's chartered accountant said his client had "not defaulted" in disclosing foreign assets in the income tax returns for assessment year 2016-17 (FY 2015-16). Karti's wife and mother too filed identical responses and said the disclosures were made in the revised returns filed by them.
 
 "Omission, if any, in the original returns under Section 139(1) was corrected in the revised returns under Section 139(5) of the I-T Act. The original returns and the revised returns were filed on the advice of her chartered accountant," the reply by Karti's wife Srinidhi said.
 
 The Chidambarams have demanded that the case be dropped, arguing that "it would be totally unreasonable and perverse to conclude there has been any wilful failure to disclose any information about the foreign asset".
 
 The I-T department had earlier summoned the three and asked them to appear before it. However, they refused and instead approached the Madras high court seeking exemption from such proceedings. The HC rejected their plea and asked them to submit before the investigation.
 
 Karti is facing a series of cases and was twice questioned by the   last month in a money laundering case in the   matter. He was recently arrested by the CBI after the agency claimed that he was refusing to cooperate.
 
