NAGPUR: Almost 100% voter turnout in Amravati and 99.72% in Wardha-Chandrapur-Gadchiroli marked the polling on Monday for the two legislative council seats. Counting of votes will be on Thursday (May 24).

 The election is significant as minister of state   is seeking re-election from Amravati while BJP is desperate to retain the other seat in which it has fielded party strongman Ramdas Ambatkar. All elected members of zilla parishad, panchayat samiti chairpersons, municipal corporation, municipal councils and nagar panchayats form the voters who elect their representative to the state’s upper house of legislature.
 
 All the listed voters exercised their franchise in Amravati at their designated sub-divisional offices across the district. In Wardha-Chandrapur-Gadchiroli seat, all but three — one each from Arvi, Chamorshi and Hinganghat — of the total 1,059 voters cast their votes.
 
 Pote’s continuation in the government is hinged on his getting re-elected from the seat. Hence, BJP has taken no chances and worked out a strategy accordingly. The high voter-turnout should not be a surprise as normally in this election, much more than party affiliation and ideology are at play .
 
 That was the reason the   seems to have thrown into fray candidates with non-political background from both the seats —   from Amravati and   from the other seat of Wardha-Chandrapur and Gadchiroli.
 
 It is widely speculated that the candidates and parties have to be generous with their purse-strings to woo the voters. The seat was held by BJP which had last time fielded irrigation contractor Mitesh Bhangadia. But this, time the party has nominated its senior functionary Ambatkar. Of the 17 polling stations, turnover was 100% in 14 while one voter each was missing in three stations.
 
 In Amravati, 488 of the 489 voters exercised their franchise at 14 tehsil level polling stations across the district. The voting began at 8am and ended at 4pm. The Congress’ challenge to Pote came on the last day of filing nominations. But by that time, the guardian minister had covered the entire ground. Lack of enthusiasm among local Congress leaders came as another setback for the candidate, who is relatively new in politics.
 
 (With inputs from   & Mazhar Ali)
 
