JAIPUR/ALWAR: Tigers do not seem safe even in   (STR) as their habitat is being increasingly encroached by unscrupulous elements, including ‘sadhus’ and religious groups. Interestingly, one of them, a sadhu (holy man) was found by TOI to be exploring business projects on the encroached forest land. TOI secretly recorded his conversation in which he was seeking suggestions to open a college or a restaurant. on the encroached land.

 
 The sadhu, famously known as  , has reportedly encroached over 12 bighas of land, adjoining the Alwar biodiversity park in the buffer zone of   Tiger Reserve (STR).
 
 According to reports, encroachers have grabbed over 200 bighas of forest land in separate areas in STR, which is spread over 881.11sq km.
 
 About 10 sadhus have allegedly encroached forest land and some have even constructed two-storey concrete buildings and boundary walls in the forest area. Police and forest administration are also not allowed to enter these illegal areas without permission. 
  
 
 Another sadhu, Baba Balbeer Das Meena, has encroached nearly 3 km of forest land in STR’s Raika region, which comes under the core area. This land falls between two hills, where the forest department had once constructed an enclosure. 
 
 Meena has also put up a signboard warning the people at the gate which reads, “Bina ijajat koi bhi andar aaya toh bura bartaav hoga (Anyone who enters the premises without permission will be treated badly).”
 
 On condition of anonymity, a local woman said, “People are scared to enter as the Baba pelts stones and mouths abuses. He has a gun and, recently, shot a man in the leg. No one, including forest officials, is allowed to enter the forest area ‘under his occupation’.”
 
 Yet another sadhu, Suraj Bharti Baba, is running a dog breeding business in Jammusuna area of the STR buffer zone in Alwar. Bharti has allegedly encroached three bighas of land recently and constructed a wall.
 
 TOI also found religious structures, including temples and mosques, in the forest area. At present, there are 15 tigers in Sariska. There’s the real possibility of these tigers straying out of the forest if human interventions increase. For instance, tigress ST-5 has been missing for the past 20 days from STR.
 
 The government, meanwhile, remains a mute spectator, promising action and little else.
 
 Speaking to TOI, STR’s   (DFO) Balaji Kari said, “The matter has been brought to our notice. There are few places where ‘babas’ have ‘reconstructed’ the forest wall. We will check the records and take action if there is any encroachment. At present, our staff is deployed for a search operation to find the missing tigress ST-5. The drive will start once the operation is finished.”
 
 Conservationists and wildlife enthusiasts believe that the state forest department is not making any effort to protect the forest area. Sunayan Sharma, a retired IFS officer and president of the  , says, “Authorities are turning a blind eye towards encroachments. The forest department claims to be converting the buffer zone into the core area and developing a corridor for tigers. However, they have failed to protect the land in the core area. The situation is dismal in STR as they have not deployed the required staff.”
 
