BENGALURU: Little did Bengalurean B S Basavaraju realize that his attempt to use an ATM card for the first time would result in harassment from the bank and a court battle.

 A resident of Kumaraswamy Layout, Basavaraju, 59, tried to use his ATM card issued by the Karnataka State Co-operative   for his savings account on February 26, 2016. He visited the   and   branches but his attempts to withdraw Rs 10,000 from their ATMs went in vain; the machines beamed a message that his card wasn’t ready yet.
 
 A few days later, Basavaraju visited Apex Bank’s Chamarajpet branch where he had his account and got his passbook updated. He was shocked to notice that Rs 10,000 had been withdrawn from his account on February 26. He lodged a complaint with the local branch manager who promised to fix the matter and get the money back into his account in three months. He also approached the ICICI and Axis Bank branches where he had tried to withdraw money.
 
 After waiting in vain for five months for his bank to sort out the problem, Basavaraju moved the District Consumer Disputes Redressal  , Bengaluru (Urban), with a complaint against Apex Bank, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank. Bank authorities asserted in the court that Basavaraju had filed a false complaint against them by stating that he wasn’t able to use the ATM effectively and pointed out a typing error of Rs 10 lakh instead of Rs 10,000 entered in the ATM during the failed withdrawals.
 
 After examining the claims, the forum pulled up Apex Bank authorities for failing to refund him the amount he’d lost. The bank’s counsel said Basavaraju’s claims were false but did not produce any evidence, mainly   footage from the ATMs to prove it, the judges noted.
 
 The forum ordered Apex Bank to refund Rs 10,000 to Basavaraju with 9% interest from the day it was lost, and pay Rs 4,000 towards court expenses. The complaint against ICICI and Axis banks were dismissed.
 
 
 
 
 Three unidentified miscreants made a futile attempt to break open an ATM at an Axis Bank kiosk in Avalahalli, near Talaghattapura, South Bengaluru, late Sunday night.
 
 Police said the kiosk was unguarded and the miscreants used stones to break open the machine. They only damaged the screen and the rear portion of the kiosk. “The cash inside the machine was intact,”they added.
 
 “ Bank officials have erred by not deploying security personnel. According to officials, the machine had around Rs 14 lakh cash,” police said. 
 
