ALIPURDUAR:   chief minister   on Tuesday raised the ante against the updating of the 1951 National Register of Citizens in  , days after the   police registered a case against her for inciting regional sentiments.

 “We have information that more than 1 crore people have been left out of the 3.9 crore population in Assam in the first draft. They include Hindi-speaking people from Bihar and Rajasthan. I would appeal to you to give shelter to them with love even if Assam drives them out,” she said. 
 
 Saying so, Banerjee pointed out that many people from Bengal’s Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Siliguri, Malda, Murshidabad and Nadia had gone to Assam in search of jobs and settled there. “They have settled in Assam like many people from other states such as Gujarat and Rajasthan have settled in Bengal. Why should Assam drive them out?”
 
 The CM saw a deep-rooted conspiracy in BJP-ruled Assam’s   plan to create divisions among people and trigger riots. “People in this country have the right to settle anywhere in the country. Don’t pay heed to some NGOs that are spreading canards,” she said, days after Trinamool MPs took up the issue in both Houses of Parliament, prompting home minister Rajnath Singh to allay fears among those “left out” of the NRC first draft. 
 
 To a claim by senior Trinamool MP Saugata Roy in Lok Sabha that 1.3 crore of the total 3.9 crore population in Assam had been left out of the first draft, the Union home minister said that bona-fide citizens can approach the tribunal set up for this purpose with valid documents.
 
 Banerjee held that people in Assam can remain happy only if neighbouring Bengal, too, was happy. “It happens in families as well. Families having problems within can’t stay happy. People blow conch shells, recite hymns only when they are happy,” she said. 
 
 The CM added that her government was tolerant of all religions and languages. “Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar gave shelter to people from Assam when riots broke out a few years ago,” she said.
 
 
