AICC general secretary and former chief minister   completed his 116th day of Narmada Parikrama and halted for the night at Hatnora village in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Budhni constituency on Monday. Dipping his feet in warm water after the daylong walk, he spoke to Suchandana Gupta on his spiritual circumambulation and meeting with rural folk. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 We have walked more than 1,900km. I had some kind of a vision after which I decided to take the Narmada Parikrama. It is not what you see, but the experience that is important. Narmada is the only river for which Parikrama is done. No other river has so many temples on its banks. It is also considered the oldest river in the country. According to our Puranik scriptures, one acquires the same ‘punya’ by bathing in the Ganges as by the mere sight or ‘darshan’ of the Narmada.
 
 
 
 
 Whatever experience I have had will be made public once I have completed the circumambulation. It is not to be revealed right now.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know if it will be turbulent. But maybe, it will have some political implications.
 
 
 
 
 Farmers are annoyed and unhappy that the government is no longer acquiring their produce on Minimum Support Price. The dues of acquisition of pulses have not been paid for a long time and the recently introduced Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana denied MSP, which they deserve. There is a lot of discontent over the way prices fluctuate and the way Bhavantar calculations are being made. Prices of soyabean went up after Bhavantar payments were stopped. Farmers feel betrayed that the government has not stood by them. The onion crisis was also the same — prices shot-up soon after the government’s acquisition from farmers was over.
 
 
 
 
 Gujarat is different in different constituencies. I did not pay much attention to it though the situation there is as good or as bad as Madhya Pradesh. Rural Gujarat is, of course, worse than Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
 
 
 Well, if   plays its cards right, there is a fair probability that it will form the next state government in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 
 
 
 I will certainly contribute in whatever way I can. I will be active in bringing all the factions of the party together.
 
 
 
 
 I have seen massive machines being used to extract sand from the river, which is a violation of National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order. Whenever we arrive at a village, the sand mining is immediately stopped. Two or three days after we leave, it resumes. Chief minister   has been formulating new mining policies and promising that sand mining will be handed over to the village panchayats. But so far, no government order has been issued to that effect.
 
 
 
 
 I can tell you that standard of education still remains very poor. There is a huge difference between enrolment and attendance in government schools. Teacher absenteeism is a common phenomenon.
 
 
 
 
 It was a hype and facade that the BJP created. At that time, state government funds from the NDA’s central taxes were a pittance. They gave us just about 28% of central taxes, which now is 42%. Because of increase in the central tax collection, devolution to the states has also increased. States now have more money for power and roads. Water was never a problem during my tenure. However, because of the bifurcation and creation of Chhattisgarh, all power generating plants went to the new state. They became power surplus and we had none. During the UPA regime, the Centre started giving more funds to the state for construction and maintenance of national and state highways.
 
 
 
 
 A: Only one. Narmade Har.
 
 
