If you pass by Gateway of India or the harbour off Colaba in the afternoon and look outwards into the sea, you will see it dotted with little  , smaller   and little hulls. But these aren’t your regular sea faring-folk. This is a younger lot, who is increasingly taking to   as a   and getting competitive with it, too! BT caught Mumbai’s young sailors as they learnt nautical lingo, set up their masts and got into the water, on a balmy Saturday morning…

 
 At the Indian naval watermanship training centre at RC Church, Colaba, there’s a bunch of pre-teens straightening out their wirelines, ropes, mainsheets and adding a few last minute-touches to their boats before they set out on the water. They come to learn sailing here and while some will participate in a weekend regatta, for others it’s prep for a clear ride out on the water. 
 Karl Hansotia, class six student at Campion School, who’s halfway through setting up the mainsail of his six-foot optimist boat, says, “I can do this all by myself. I just have to put the mast in the socket and tie the main sheet to it.” Having taken up sailing since last year, he’s here on weekends practising his hobby. “It’s not that tough to sail, I realised I just needed to juggle my time for both studies and sailing, so I cut short my playtime for this,” he explains. Like him, others who are regulars here, are also fueled by their desire to learn the sport. 
 
 
  
 
 
 Adhvait Menon of the   Children’s School, who’s tweaking the fittings on his lightweight boat, comes here every day post 3 pm. “I sail after school hours in all seasons except the monsoon and I love being alone out on the water,” he says. A few kids have taken a page right out of their father’s book. Like Adhvait, whose dad is in the Navy. “I used to go out on the sea with him and got used to it. I want to be a professional sailor and go for the Olympics now,” he declares. For 15-year-old Krisha Mongia of Bombay International School and daughter of Arjuna Award-winning sailor,  , a few pointers from her dad are always on top of her mind. “He always says, ‘Start with a clear mind’ and that ‘the start is always 60 per cent of the race’,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 For 12-year-old Anhad Singh of class seven, who’s rigging his sails, actual science goes into that task. “A lot depends on the wind conditions, as well as the water/tide conditions and the sailor’s own body weight. The air has to flow smoothly across both sides of the   and they must be trimmed according to all of this.” If you are a beginner, you can easily go solo on the water, after taking the right guidance and training. “That’s true,” he affirms, adding, “Theory is a must as you need to know the nautical terms. Being out in the sea means you have to be agile on your feet and do quick thinking. It teaches you to appreciate the power of nature, which we otherwise find tough to do in concrete Mumbai.”
 There’s also a thrill in store. He adds, “With a  , the engine does everything, but here you have to manage to manage it all. When the wind catches the sails, it gives a beautiful feeling of achievement.” Adds Krisha, “There is a point when you are out there gliding on the sparkling waters; it’s when I am totally at peace with myself.”
 
 
  
  
 
 The tranquility apart, there are also a fair share of challenges when you are pushed and pulled by the wind and currents. But these youngsters are far from daunted. Says nine-year-old G Pritha of the Army Public school, “Oh yes, I have capsized many times and no, I wasn’t scared. I simply turned the boat upwards and bailed out the water.” An avid swimmer, she’s bagged several trophies, including one for being the ‘Youngest Sailor.’ 
 Adds Vinil Vivin, student of class nine, who is also a bronze medal winner at the  . “Sailing is definitely a tough sport because there are changing conditions and so you can’t predict anything. But it also prepares you like nothing else can.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Captain Tribhuwan Jaiswal, Director Training, of the yachting association of India, is hopeful for more youngsters to take up the sport in the city. “Earlier sailing was just restricted to defence services or the wealthier lot, and very few participated in competitive sailing. But all that has changed now. Sailing is catching up as a sport as the youth want something different to do and they are looking at adventure on the water. I think more kids in our city should learn sailing as it is environment-friendly, it teaches how to deal with the natural elements as well as how to make a correct analysis. I hope that more schools and 
 colleges include it in their curriculum,” he says. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Mumbai’s parents are glad to involve their kids in sailing at an early age. Says Akhila Menon, “We were posted in National Defence Academy (NDA) Karwar, and that’s where my son took to sailing. I am glad he did so as sailing teaches kids to make calculated decisions while they keep a track on the wind and water. Today’s generation is so engulfed with gadgets so parents should let their kids take up this hobby as it takes them away from these distractions.”
 Adds Viraf Hansotia, “When you sail, you learn how to control factors like your boat, the wind and the tide. As you grow in any business, you also have to work with factors going with you and some, against you. Sailing is something that gives the child the capability of going forward and against the tide, too.”
 
 
 
