PATNA: The shooting of ‘Super 30’, a biopic on Patna-based mathematics wizard and founder of acclaimed Super 30 tutorial Anand Kumar, started at Varanasi on Tuesday.

 Phantom Films, which is producing the film, and Bollywood star  , who is playing the role of Anand, shared the first look of the biopic on their respective Twitter handles on Tuesday.
 
 Delighted over the film’s shooting, Anand said he was amazed with the look of Hrithik and the detailed homework done by the actor and filmmakers for the biopic. 
 
 “The way Super 30 director Vikas Bahl has started shooting the film is worth appreciating. I was amazed when Bahl sent me the snap of the first look of Hrithik. It felt like reliving my student days. Bahl said the shooting was about to commence and he wanted my best blessings. I said my best wishes will always be there,” Anand wrote on his Facebook account.
 
 Bahl has previously directed Queen and Shaandaar, produced by Preeti Sinha. Anand signed the contract for the movie in Patna with Preeti and Bahl on May 9, 2016.
 
 Recalling his connection with Varanasi, Anand said: “My younger brother Pranav Kumar studied violin at Banaras Hindu University (BHU). Whenever I visited Varanasi to meet him, I used to sit at the Ganga ghats and read books in the BHU library.”
 
 Phantom Films termed the first look of the biopic as “the first page in Benaras”. “From the first page in Benares! @ihrithik as Anand Kumar! #Super30 @Super30Film @RelianceEnt @NGEMovies @anandteacher,” Phantom Films tweeted.
 
 The picture shows Hrithik with beard and tousled hair in a bid to resemble Anand during his prime youth days. Sources said Hrithik watched a number of videos of Anand teaching in his Super 30, where underprivileged students are prepared for IIT entrance exams for free since 2002.
 
 Sources said Hrithik is also learning the basics of Magahi, Anand’s mother tongue, and is likely to visit Patna for the film shooting. The shooting is slated to conclude on June 30 this year and the film is likely to be released on January 25 next year. Sources said the contract for the film stipulates that 12.5% of its profit will be used for the expansion of Super 30.
 
 Over 400 students from Anand’s Super 30 have cleared the IIT entrance exams in the last 15 years. Anand selects total 30 students through a screening process every year for the yearlong residential course and more than 20 students crack the entrance exam every year.
 
 
