MUMBAI: Here’s your chance to step out of that wired world of gizmos and take a trip down memory lane by playing ancient Indian games. 

 The   of Mumbai has planned a weekend where you can play a few of those games. The Centre for Extra Mural Studies (CEMS) is working on revival of such ancient Indian games, many of them board games in which citizens can take part and perhaps take a few home.
 
  
  
 For instance, you can play ‘Pachisi’, the game of dice in which Yudishthira lost everything to the Kauravas. The game was central to the playing out of the Mahabharata. Today, it is played as   or Parcheesi. The ancient game was played on a cloth board with a long dice (phasa) and cowries or seeds for pieces. Or even more familiar the game of snakes and ladders invented by the Jains to teach children moral values.   or Mokshapatam is played with a long dice. If you land on a virtue like compassion (daya) you climb a ladder and ascend to   or Vaikuntha. If you get into bad habits like arrogance (ahamkara) or bad friends (kusangata), you lose all your gains and slide down a snake. 
 
 The game was found to be ideal by Hinduism, Islam and Christianity to instil moral values. “While Arab traders introduced it to the Muslim world, the British took it back home to  ,” said  , student of archaeology at the CEMS. The idea of this event was floated by Radha Sinha, a retired architect studying archaeology at the centre. Students researched and hunted for ancient games that could be played today. 
 
 The board can be drawn on the floor or paper. A regular dice can be used for these games, said Kurush Dalal, assistant professor at the Centre. “The Navakankari or Nine Men’s Morris game came to India probably with the Indo-Roman trade in the first century Common Era. It is found etched on the walls of the Siddeshvara temple (12-16th century) at Upla in Maharashtra,” said  , director of CEMS. The students have arranged over a dozen family games. Also available will be Ashtapada, a game so addictive it annoyed the Buddha himself. 
 
 There will be some field games like gilli danda. 
