LUDHIANA : A day after chief minister Captain   issued orders for bearing the Rs 748 crore industrial power subsidy on account of reduction of power charges to Rs 5 per unit, and concession of 50% in retrospective charges levied on industrial consumers, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has confirmed receiving a copy of the orders, but say the reduction of power charges and other decisions of the government will come into effect only when the   ( ) gives a go-ahead to  . It is very likely that industrialists will be able to get the much-awaited relief only on Monday, due to holidays on Saturday and Sunday.

 PSPCL chief engineer (Commercial)   said: “The Punjab government has decided to pay the subsidy for reduction of power charges, and 50% retrospective charges of industrial consumers. It has conveyed its decision to regulator PSERC, a copy of which has been sent to PSPCL as well. The main decisions taken by the government include bearing the amount of 50% arrears on account of retrospective charges of industry from April 2017 onwards, and also paying subsidy over and above the variable rate of Rs5 per unit for MS (Medium Supply) and Large Supply (LS) for all categories. Apart from this, the government has also ordered fixing of maximum overall rate and minimum monthly charges for industry, which will be decided by PSERC. We have made all necessary arrangements for the implementation of these orders, but we can go ahead only after we receive formal confirmation from PSERC.”
 
 City businessmen, on the other hand, have welcomed the development. According to  , president of Chamber of Industrial and Trading Entrepreneurs: “With PSPCL now admitting they have received a copy of the orders, decks have been cleared for the much-awaited relief to industrial consumers. Now, the ball is in the court of PSERC, which should ensure that all orders of the government are implemented at the earliest, without wasting any time. Our association has decided to honour Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and power minister   once the decisions come into effect.” 
 
 
