NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday sealed 135 out of the 153 shops operating out of the basement and the first floor of   for violating Master Plan 2021. 

 The drive, carried out on the directive of the three-member monitoring committee appointed by the Supreme Court, started at 12.30pm after the panel members — K J Rao, former adviser to Election Commission; Bhure Lal, chairman of Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority; and Major General (retd) Som Jhingan — inspected the complex on Lodhi Road in the morning and asked SDMC to seal the shops for illegal use and unauthorised construction. 
 
 The drive continued till 5.30pm and the shops that faced action included general stores, restaurants, lounges and retail shops. No establishment on the ground floor was sealed.
 
 Senior corporation officials claimed that when the   was made freehold, owners were allowed to carry out commercial activities only on the ground floor. “However, in the past few years, they have extended the operation either to the basement and the first floor, or new shops have come up on the first floor,” said a senior official. Two banks, SBI and Dena, have been given a few days to wind up operations as   a bank would directly affect people, he added.
 
 However, the market association claimed that since 2008, they had been pursuing the corporation to get their building plan approved. “The shops were initially allotted to Partition refugees and the market was made freehold in 2006. We then paid the fees to the corporation and requested it to approve our building plan so that we can carry out construction if required. However, it din’t reply,” said  , president of   Market Traders’ Association. The corporation has neither issued any notice nor carried out any inspection in the past few years, he added. 
 
 Shashi Bhusan, a shop owner, said, “We have been religiously paying property tax to the corporation for all these years. We should at least get a notice so that we can remove our goods.” 
 
 SDMC mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said the corporation was trying to find out a way to help traders. “We are executing the SC committee’s order. The market association may seek approval for their building plan but we cannot go beyond the building bylaws amended by the Centre,” she pointed out. 
 
 
