TRICHY: There is a high chance that you will be writing, literally, with this news article rolled into a pencil few days or weeks from now. Intrigued? Don’t be. A 25-year-old mechanical engineer hailing from   has designed and fabricated a machine that can roll old newspapers into pencils, at an affordable cost, besides saving wood used in manufacture of pencils. 

 D Madan, a resident of Perambalur town, came up with the innovative product in January after almost two years of experimentation. Paper pencils, as it is called, being environment friendly has received rousing response from rural students.
 
 Madan, after graduating in 2014, said that he wanted to do something unique. He was motivated after coming to know of the concept actively pursued in Nigeria.
 
 The manufacturing process comprises three stages - In the first step, a sizing machine that performs the task of chopping papers into the desired dimension (in this case, 7 inch X 8 inch). This is followed by rolling the chopped paper with non-toxic graphite in a rolling machine. 
 
 In the final stage, a cutting machine would cut down the rolled papers into pencil units. “We source old newspapers at Rs 14 per kg from scrap dealers. After passing through the three stages, 140 of paper pencils can be manufactured from 1 kg of old newspapers,” D Madan told TOI.
 
 Stating that making pencil from paper is a famous concept in Nigeria, Madan said that after two years of hard work without any pioneers in the field to guide, he rolled out the first successful paper pencil in January. “Till now, we have sourced non-toxic graphite from Sivakasi. As demand is soaring, we have planned to source non-toxic graphite from New Delhi,” Madan added. 
 
 Compared to conventional wooden pencils that are 173mm in length, paper pencil will be 169 mm in length. Madan’s pencil have an edge over pricing as they are sold at Rs 2.5 while conventional pencils are priced at Rs 5 each. For making a paper pencil from old newspapers, Madan said that process would usually take 3 days as paper pencils would be dried at room temperature and sunlight (each process requiring 1.5 days) to avoid wrinkles.
 
 Since February, Madan and his family have been involved in the paper pencil making process, including his parents Desikan and   and his sister Nivetha. They have distributed close to 10,000 pencils in rural Perambalur, while a majority of them were distributed free of cost. Madan said that social media was useful to take down the message of environment friendly pencils to larger crowd.
 
 
