Nagpur: While the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment has issued guidelines to include patients of thalassaemia and sickle cell in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, on January 4 this year, the Maharashtra government is yet to implement the amendment. The guidelines has identified 19 other disabilities for inclusion in the differently abled category too. Last week, paediatrician and the director of Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Centre, Nagpur, Dr Vinky Rughwani met Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and submitted a memorandum requesting him to make provisions for the patients so that they can get a certificate of being ‘differently abled’. The state government will have to issue letters to appropriate authorities such as the medical board which will then certify the patients. “It has been over two and a half months since the guidelines were issued. It also proposes reservation for patients in education and employment. The central government has done its job, the state has to act now. If a disability certificate is not given to the patients who have been newly included in the Act at the earliest, they will miss an academic year,” said Rughwani. Nagpur alone has about 6,000 patients of thalassaemia and an equal amount of sickle cell patients. “States such as Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat have already started handing out disability certificates to patients of new included diseases,” claimed Rughwani.  Rughwani added that the state government has been functioning at a slow pace due to seemingly less manpower. He added that an officer should be appointed to look after the process in order to implement the task faster. In order to bring patients of thalassaemia and sickle cell at par with other individuals, this reservation is crucial, says Rughwani. “Thalassaemia patients require frequent blood transfusions, while sickle cell patients suffer from pain crisis, making it difficult for them to perform like other students as they are admitted to hospital frequently,” he said. North Nagpur MLA Dr Milind Mane and Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s standing committee chairman Vicky Kukreja were also present at the time of submitting the memorandum. The chief minister has promised to do the needful at the earliest, according to Rughwani.