KOCHI: The 114-year-old mango tree, which was declared as the ‘grandmother tree’ of the district by   of the   years ago, is facing threat to its existence.

 Located near   Junction on the Kakkanad-Muvattupuzha Road, the tree is most likely to be axed for the four-laning of Kakkanad-Muvattupuzha Road.
 
 Public works department has already approved the alignment for the road, which is passing through Pattimattom Junction. The alignment shows that the old tree comes in the middle of the road when the road work gets over.
 
 
  
 
 Standing tall on the roadside and giving shelter to a lot of birds and shade to passers-by for more than a century, the tree has weathered many a storm.
 
 The trunk, which is marred by nails hammered in for hanging advertisements, has a 150-inch circumference and the tree is 60 ft high. 
 
 Besides declaring it ‘grandmother tree’, no steps were taken to protect the tree after that.
 
 “During my childhood, there were a lot of big trees on the roadside here. We used to get sweet mangoes from it. But all the trees, except this one, could not withstand the advance of development works in the area. We have grown up under these trees. I want to see the   here. When the temperature rises, people relax under its shade,” says retired KSRTC employee E P Ebrahim. But not everyone has the same view about the tree. There is a workshop and a rag collection godown functioning under the tree. 
 
 
  
 
 “When it rains, I leave the shop early as chances are high for the decayed big branches to fall on the tiny shed of my workshop,” said Shaju K N, the workshop owner. 
 
 “The local body is also not willing to take steps to protect the tree by removing parasites and decayed branches. Every monsoon, branches from this tree fall on vehicles and injures some passer-by. We don’t want it here. When the road is widened, the tree will be chopped,” says Pattimattom ward member Shyamala Suresh.
 
 “We don’t have any scheme to protect a single tree standing on PWD road. But if Kunnathunadu panchayat or any NGO approaches us, we are ready to protect it,” said Anas A M, district social forestry official. 
 
 “The old tree should be allowed to stand in the middle of the road as we see in other parts of the world, while developing road on both sides. We will take up the matter with officials concerned,” said environmentalist S Sitharaman.
 
 
  
 
 
