Ever since he made a comeback of sorts with Devi(L),   has become a busy actor in Kollywood. Until then, there was a break, and he wasn’t seen in Tamil films for a few years. But the actor-choreographer-director, who is presently part of half-a-dozen films, says that he does not plan anything. “I just go with the flow. I was busy directing until Devi(L) happened. It became a hit and I started getting a lot of acting offers from here. If it hadn’t become a hit, would producers have called me after that?” he asks. 

 First in the line among his upcoming films is Mercury, directed by  . It is also the most exciting, especially because it is a silent film. Talking about his initial reaction when Karthik approached him with the film, he says, “The first thing I asked Karthik was why he wanted me for that role. And he said that he felt I would suit the character the best. After that, it was just ‘Go ahead’ from my end. I felt the film was very novel and would be a very different one in my career,” he says. He elaborates, “Even character-wise, I have never played someone who is this aggressive — and a villain. And it was silent film, and once I considered that factor, everything else became new.”
 
 Was it easier for him to adapt to a silent film because of his dancing background? He says that he cannot say for sure, but admits it could have influence him “maybe, subconsciously”. “I don’t think Karthik cast me because of this,” he adds. 
 
 He describes Karthik as a jolly person, and a nice guy. “This was such a difficult film to make because it’s a silent film, but he made it so easy for everyone. Portions that I felt would be difficult while listening to the script never felt that way while shooting,” he says, and credits the director’s clarity of thought for this. “I have seen his films Pizza and Jigarthanda. I’d seen Iraivi, in parts, on a flight. But I have not been here for some time, so I did not know that he got a break through Naalaya Iyakkunar. So, I asked him who he had worked under as an assistant, where he learnt filmmaking and how he thought of such a script, which is brilliant. He just smiled and said, ‘Interest, sir’. I think he needs to be applauded just for the thought behind this film,” he praises. 
 
 Prabhudheva calls Mercury a commercial film, and reveals that the last one-and-a-half hour forms the climax. He says it’s a thriller with lot of action and a social message. “That’s Karthik’s brilliance — weaving a message in an action-packed, edge-of-the-seat entertainer,” he says. 
 
 The actor also informs that he did not have to do any homework for his role. And there was a reason behind this approach. “This was a new genre for me, and I felt that it wouldn’t come out well if I planned my performance; vekkam illama pannanum. Karthik would narrate the scene and ask me if I needed a rehearsal, but I’d mostly tell him to go straight for the take. So, whatever I felt should be my body language and expression, I’d do it in that first take. We could always go for another take, so I did not hesitate to do what I felt initially,” he reveals.
 
 Prabhudheva says that more than what to do, all these years of experiences have taught him what he shouldn’t do. “When the camera is on, without realising it, I used to perform the action at a faster clip. Take shots where I have to turn towards the camera. I used to turn at a different pace for a high-speed shot and a slow-motion shot. Now, I don’t do that. I turn as I normally turn, and let the camera capture it the way it wants to. Even while uttering a line, I’d be focusing on the next one, and that made my performance very affected. The audience shouldn’t know that I’m performing. It has to be casual — and there lies the magic,” he says. These days, he listens to a scene, and whether right or wrong, does what he feels instinctively.
 
 Talking about his other films, he says, “All the characters are different from each other. Most of the directors are young filmmakers with new thoughts. So, it is exciting to work on them.” Another film, apart from Mercury, that he is looking forward to, is the dance-centric Lakshmi, which sees him teaming up once again with his Devi(L) director Vijay. “When Vijay narrated Lakshmi, I told him that ABCD is popular across India, so we should do the film only if this one is also up to that level. And he has done that now, choosing kids from across India for the film,” he informs. Though he was not involved in the casting process, he reveals that he suggested Vijay to check out   (the girl who now plays the film’s lead) on the Hindi reality dance show Super Dancer. “He liked her dancing skills, but he chose only after her looking at her acting skills,” he quickly adds and predicts that Lakshmi will become a pan-national film when it releases.
 
 Right from his debut, he says the only thing he looks for while choosing a film is to see if it is entertaining. “I want the audience to leave the theatre happy — like how they feel after visiting a fair,” he says. But he also feels that every kind of film can work at the box office — not just entertainers. Which is why he insists that the success of a film is not in the hands of filmmakers. “You do what you think will work, but whether the film runs or not is not in your hand,” he says.
 
