NEW DELHI:   Manish   on Tuesday told TOI that the government was hoping to get   from the Delhi   in the   case. He said they had “no regret” and believed there was nothing wrong in chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal’s decision to appoint parliamentary secretaries by way of an administrative order though there was no provision in the law that gave them immunity against disqualification. He believes that the 20 disqualified MLAs will get a hearing from the high court that the Election Commission had “denied” them. “We have full faith in the court. There are instances of courts reversing anti-people decisions,” he said.

 At the same time, he sharpened his attack on the EC, alleging that it had acted at the behest of the Centre. “What’s the reason for the EC not daring to do the same in Haryana and Chhattisgarh? Action against the parliamentary secretaries in these states will lead to the fall of the government,” he pointed out.
 
 The EC recommended disqualification of the 20 AAP MLAs on Friday, the last working day before retirement of CEC AK Joti. New CEC Om Prakash Rawat assumed charge on Tuesday. On Rawat’s assertion that AAP MLAs had two opportunities to request the EC for a hearing but they didn’t, Sisodia cited the June 23 ruling of EC which stated that the commission would intimate them of the next date of hearing. 
 
 Pointing out “contradictions” in the CEC’s assertions, Sisodia said: “The EC on June 23, 2017, said that the commission will intimate the next date of hearing to all parties. Where is that hearing? Judicial and quasi-judicial decisions cannot be made without a hearing. No date for a hearing was intimated or fixed.” He said written notices were not enough. 
 
 Giving reasons for his optimism about getting relief from HC, he said: “In the appointment order of the parliamentary secretaries, it was made clear that none of them will get any financial benefit. It was stated that they may use official vehicles and be given office space in the minister’s office for assisting in work. In the case of Jaya Bachchan, the appointment order had mentioned that she would get monetary benefits. The SC order on office of profit says that no pecuniary benefits should be there. So where is the office of profit in the case of our MLAs?”
 
 “People are supporting us on the issue. Even our critics are supporting us and saying that it is a wrong judgement,” asserted Sisodia.
 
 “We do not have any regret over appointing parliamentary secretaries before bringing a law to exclude these posts from office of profit. In fact it was a good move. In many other states, parliamentary secretaries get the position of state ministers but here our decision was clear, “ he asserted. “In the process of governance, acts are not always important. You do a lot through notifications and later legitimise it through a law.” 
 
 “On a complaint by somebody, you disqualified the MLAs without hearing them. This is an insult to the public which elected these MLAs. It is an insult of the public mandate,” he added. “The public is watching. An unnecessary election is being forced on them,” Sisodia said. “And we know why this conspiracy is being hatched. They (BJP) want to derail this process of development steered over the past three years in fields like education and health and the work that is to happen on doorstep delivery of services, ration and school of excellence to name a few things.” 
 
 On elections, he said there were many ifs and buts. When asked whether in case of bypolls, they would go with the same 20 MLAs, he said they had no reason to change them but that was not the question right now. He also made it clear that Kailash Gahlot will continue as a minister.
 
 
