NAGPUR: The   (NU) has allegedly assigned the work of starting a new portal for its first-ever online admissions to post graduate courses to private agency   without a tendering process.

 It was expected that the university would be hosting the online admissions on its existing website, developed by another private agency,  . However, it has come to fore that a new portal would be launched to process the online applications from June, and give information about courses offered by NU departments and affiliated colleges.
 
 While NU top officers made the decision about online admissions public, they failed to disclose how it was planning to implement the process.
 
 Promarc is already operating the contract for exam work, after   was kicked out by the university over allegedly poor services in 2012. Soft Polynomials is also a third party contractor of MKCL, through whom it was taking care of NU exam work. The private contractor is experienced in conducting online admissions through MKCL at several universities in India and abroad.
 
 An official from Promarc said running the portal was more important for the agency than the university. “Promarc hasn’t done online admissions, so it would be a learning experience, and at the same time the university would get services free of cost,” the official said.
 
 An official from Soft Polynomials said it was unfair on the part of a public university to handpick a private agency. “There was no harm in calling for bids through tendering. If any agency was indeed interested in offering free services, then it would have quoted 1 paise in its bid, and bagged the work order in a transparent manner,” the official said.
 
 Vice chancellor   initially said the university would be doing it independently. When asked whether an IT cell has been started for digital initiatives, he replied in the negative but couldn’t explain exactly who would be developing and maintaining the new portal.
 
 It was only after TOI broached the name of Promarc did the VC divulge further details. “It is not a big work. There are less 10,000 students, and Promarc is already carrying out the exam work for the university. It was mentioned in the MoU with the private agency that it will have to do other online works for the university without charging any additional fee,” Kane said.
 
 He also admitted that no terms and conditions or any formal agreement have been signed with Promarc for the admission work.
 
 
