NEW DELHI: Recent job fairs organised by Delhi government revealed a mostly ignored reality: unemployment is not limited to unskilled or semi-skilled aspirants, but also educated youth. 

 To harness the technological skills of today’s educated youngsters, Delhi government is looking at a   to promote entrepreneurship that will stimulate a healthy business environment and ensure job creation. At a meeting on Wednesday to discuss a draft policy on startups, the industry department considered the challenges and opportunities for such enterprises.
 
 “We want to   a world-class   ecosystem in Delhi through strategic investments and policy interventions,” said Mohanjeet Singh, principal secretary, department of industries, and MD of Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation. The introduction of such a policy would benefit the large number of startups already located in Delhi.
 
 The stakeholders in the meeting, including those from trade associations such as NASSCOM, FICCI and CII who participated in the meet, said the policy could boost economic growth. The use of innovative technologies, which forms the core of the startup culture, has the potential to solve many of the city’s socio-economic problems.
 
 “The key reasons for encouraging and fostering the growth of entrepreneurship are to create jobs and to fuel economic growth,” explained a government official. Unemployment is one of the capital’s big problems, and at recent job fairs it became clear that even educated youth were hampered by this.
 
 “The creation of a world-class start-up   — which the policy aspires to — can also bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system and facilitate generation of innovative technology solutions for social impact,” said an official, who added that a startup policy would leverage the existing enthusiasm in the “robust” startup climate in Delhi.
 
 The state government is already working on setting up a technology incubation hub in Delhi, having already identified land for the project. In the recent past, government representatives have met the information technology minister of Telangana to understand how that state’s government is fostering an innovation ecosystem through its various initiatives.
 
 “The goal of establishing the incubation centre is to provide infrastructural support and to create an environment conducive to the growth of a startup ecosystem,” said an official. Since it came to power, the   government has accorded top priority to education and making education intuitions innovation oriented.
 
 
