PUNE:   has claimed that its recent survey on civic works taken up by corporators received a cold response as only two respondents provided feedback within a set time period. As many as 18 corporators, including mayor Mukta Tilak and standing committee chairman Yogesh Mulik, did not respond to the survey.

 The questions were posed on the work taken up by each elected representative in their respective panel over the last one year. Issues under consideration were equitable water supply, relocation of hawkers and ban on illegal hawkers, action against encroachments, solid waste management, better footpaths and action against illegal parking. 
 
 Twenty corporators from five panels were contacted as part of the survey. The questions were sent on the postal addresses of every corporator. The questions were also sent to city unit chiefs of political parties to remind corporators to respond. However, despite a follow up, corporators chose to keep mum, the city-based organization has claimed.
 
 Qaneez Sukhrani of Nagrik Chetna Manch said, “Based on the poor response, it looks like elected representatives do not care about people’s opinion even after being elected. It was shocking that the list of corporators, who did not response, includes the mayor and standing committee chairman,” Sukhrani said.
 
 Besides questions on basic amenities, the organization had also sought details on the list of projects that corporators had approved under the Prabhag budget for 2017-18 and 2018-19 with details like the name of work, cost, date of commencement and completion.
 
 Encroachment was a major concern mentioned in the survey. Apart from questions relating to zero tolerance for unauthorized encroachers of all categories on public space and unauthorized structures on private land, the questionnaire also sought to know details about work undertaken to ensure footpaths are used for pedestrians not for illegal encroachments.
 
 The organization said that the responses were received from   (BJP) and Pramod Bhangire (Shiv Sena). The letter sent to Hemant Rasne, corporator from Prabhag 15 returned back to the  . The five panels were selected on a random basis.
 
 
