In the latest episode of  ,   stops   from distributing the ‘ladoos’ made by her. He asks her to eat one from the plate and only then will her followers have it. Siddhi Mai willingly agrees and asks Shivaay to pick any ‘ladoo’. However, in return, she tells him he would have to then become one of her ‘chelas’ and distribute the offering she has prepared amongst the gathering. Shivaay agrees to her demands.

 Siddhi Mai eats the ‘ladoo’ and nothing happens to her. Shivaay then shares it with her followers present there. After they begin to rejoice and dance, all of them become unconscious in no time. Later at night, Shivaay's brothers are seen in their rooms, along with their wives, dead asleep. Siddhi Mai’s man goes and informs her about the same. 
 
 Siddhi Mai then goes to Dadi’s room and wakes her up for the ‘pooja’. She asks her to bring all the prized possessions which could be causing hindrance to the family peace. Dadi opens the locker in front of her and takes out jewellery, cash and property papers. They begin the ‘pooja’ and Dadi hands it all over to Siddhi Mai. While they are in the middle of the prayer, Dadi faints and this gives Siddhi Mai a chance to run away with everything. 
 
 As she is seen walking towards the door, the lights turn on. Shivaay, Omkara, Rudra,  , Gauri and Bhavya appear in front of Siddhi Mai along with the media. Shivaay then exposes Siddhi Mai. He reveals how he tricked Siddhi Mai by replacing the intoxicant she intended to use in the ‘ladoos'. He also shares how he joined hands with all her followers and instructed them to faint on eating the ‘ladoos’. He further shows everyone how Siddhi Mai’s chair could be lifted up with a remote and how her ‘mishri’ was stored in the bangle she wore. 
 
 This leaves Dadi, Gauri and Rudra shocked. After the police takes Siddhi Mai, Dadi apologises to Shivaay and thanks him for shattering her age old beliefs in spiritual gurus. The next day, Shivaay gets up and doesn’t find Anika next to him. He wonders how Anika got up before him. Anika them comes with his black coffee and is seen in a great mood. This makes Shivaay wonder what she is up to. 
 
