NEW DELHI: The   has registered a case against  , former chairman-cum-managing director of  , and two private companies and their directors and some chartered accountants for allegedly cheating the public sector bank of Rs 737 crore.
 
 
 According to sleuths, the loan amount sanctioned to the two firms, Era Engineering Infra India Ltd and Altius Finserve Pvt Ltd, is Rs 621 crore, though the current outstanding after adding interests stands at Rs 737 crore.
 
 After registering the case, CBI teams on Saturday raided 10 places in Delhi and Mumbai, including Kaul’s residence, premises of the CAs and the two firms. Kaul will be questioned soon, said sources. He was the CMD of UCO Bank between 2010 and 2015, before government refused to extend his tenure.
 
 CBI has recently investigated several CMDs of public sector banks for swindling public money or favouring private companies by abusing their official positions. 
 
 In March this year, CBI filed a case against former CMD of United Bank of India, Archana Bhargava, for amassing assets worth Rs 3.63 crore, more than her known sources of income between 2004 and 2014. 
 
 In another case involving a bank chief, CBI had arrested former CMD of Syndicate Bank Sudhir Kumar Jain and five others while accepting Rs 50 lakh bribe from a private company for enhancing the credit limit by bypassing rules.
 
 In the present case, besides Kaul, the agency has named Era Engineering Infra India Ltd. (EEIL), its CMD Hem Singh Bharana; two chartered accountants, Pankaj Jain and Vandna Sharda; and Pawan Bansal of Altius Finserve Pvt Ltd and unknown private persons and public servants.
 
 It is alleged that the accused persons, in pursuance of criminal conspiracy, defrauded UCO Bank to the tune of Rs 621 crore by diversion and siphoning of the bank loans. Kaul allegedly facilitated the accused company in obtaining the said loan, sources said.
 
 “It is alleged that the loan was not utilised for the sanctioned purpose and was secured by producing false end use certificates issued by the chartered accountant and by fabricating business data etc.”
 
 In its complaint, now part of the FIR, the bank has alleged that two loans were issued to the company in 2010 — first of Rs 200 crore in March and then Rs 450 crore in October. In the case of Rs 200 crore which was issued for repayment of high cost debt to Central Bank of India,   and IFCI, it was found that the company did not utilise the amount for the purpose for which it was disbursed and diverted the funds.
 
 “...no amount was used to repay the dues of Central Bank of India and PNB while only Rs 59 lakh were repaid towards dues of IFCI while purpose of the loan was to repay the dues of these banks,” it said.
 
 The chartered accountant Pankaj Jain fraudulently did not mention the details of utilisation of term loan in the end use certificate.
 
 In the case of loan of Rs 450 crore too, the funds were utilised for purposes other than stipulated in the sanction and the end use certificates given by the chartered account was intentionally ambiguous and against the fact, it alleged. “The account was declared NPA as on July 7, 2013 by the bank and the present balance as on December 31, 2017 is Rs 737.88 crore,” it alleged.
 
 
