MYSURU:  , conservator of forests and director of  , died after being attacked by a tusker around 1.30pm Saturday at Katihundikere beat in DB Kuppe forest range close to the Kabini backwaters.
 
  
 He had gone to assess the damage caused by a minor fire allegedly set by miscreants on Friday evening.
 
 Officers said Manikandan, 46, accompanied by RFO Subramanya Swamy and around 15 staffers including guards and watchers, were walking to take the GPS reading of the fire damage when a lone tusker charged out of a bush. While others fled to safety, Manikandan and RFO Subramanya stumbled and fell. DRFOs Sanjay and Murhuraj were with the team.
 
 “While Subramanya immediately got up and ran away, Manikandan took a few seconds more to regain his footing. The tusker trampled him on his chest,” an officer said.
 
 The staff tried to drive away the elephant. Even before the staff lifted Manikandan and shifted him to HD Kote Government Hospital, he was dead. Foresters rushed him in their vehicle to Hosahalli Gate checkpost, the border of the tiger reserve, to a waiting ambulance. RFO Subramanya, who suffered shoulder injuries, was admitted to hospital for treatment.
 
 As per procedure, Manikandan’s body was brought to the KR Hospital mortuary in an ambulance and later shifted to Aranya Bhavan, Ashokapuram where state honours were presented.
 
 DC D Randeep, his wife Arpitha, IFS officer R Gokul, who served as Nagarahole director, APCCF Bengaluru (Project Elephant) Manoj Kumar, DCF (wildlife) V Yedukondalu, Bandipur Tiger Reserve director Ambady Madhav and others were present.
 
 Forest officers said Manikandan’s wife Sangeetha, daughter Mithila, a class 9 student, and son Kavilesh, a class 3 student, who stay in Yelahanka, Bengaluru were informed about the incident.
 
 
 
 The mortal remains of Manikandan were shifted back to the KR Hospital mortuary for the postmortem. The body will be later taken to Madurai, Tamil Nadu for the last rites.
 
 Manikandan’s driver Ravi told reporters that forest staff were busy dousing the flames at the spot since morning. “I took Manikandan Sir to the spot and parked the vehicle 60 metres away. We started walking in the forest on the small track. Suddenly, some staffers shouted that an elephant was charging at us,” he said.
 
 He said Manikandan and RFO Subramanya stumbled and fell on the ground and the tusker trampled Manikandan. “It tried to attack Subramanya but he managed to escape. ”
 
 Illustrious career
 
 S Manikandan, born on July 5, 1972 in Tamil Nadu, did MSc (Entomology) in Theni district, Tamil Nadu. After joining the Indian   in 2001, he worked in Ballari, Bidar, Raichur districts, was conservator of forest and director (IT) in Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation. He was director of Nagarahole Tiger Reserve for the past two years.
 
 
