PATNA:   MP   on Wednesday criticised the Nitish Kumar government for alleged failure to maintain law and order in  . 

 Addressing a presser, she cited the recent incidents of Jehanabad where a minor girl was molested by a group of boys and the Motihari bus accident and said the state government had become insensitive towards people’s problems.
 
 The Supaul MP, who is also the AICC secretary-cum-spokesperson, further said, “Incidents of rape, murder and loot have become order of the day in Bihar.” She also called CM Nitish’s Saat Nishchay (seven resolutions) programme a total failure and said the government was only robbing the money of the poor. “No work has been done under Saat Nishchay programme,” she claimed.
 
 Ranjeet blamed the BJP-led NDA government for delaying the review petition against the Supreme Court ruling on the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “The Centre, with RSS support, is moving menacingly towards achieving its goal of depriving SC/ST and backward people of the benefit of reservation,” she alleged.
 
 Applauding the dalits for observing Bharat Bandh on April 2 to protest the alleged dilution of SC/ST Act and showing their strength, Ranjeet said the NDA government was shaken. “Now, CM Nitish has announced special grants for civil services aspirants from the SC/ST categories for clear the preliminary exams. He is playing such tactics to woo the voters and insulate his party from the perceived resentment among the dalit community,” she said and asked, “Why Nitish remained tight-lipped on dalit issue and special category status to Bihar. Since Nitish has joined hands with the BJP, the special status issue has lost its pace. But the Congress will fight for it.”
 
 Ranjeet further said, “The youths need education and employment, but the Union government has been trying to divert important issues by raising not so important issues.” 
 
 Commenting on PM Narendra Modi’s rank in the Forbes magazine as the most powerful leader in the world, she said the US people are not going to vote for him in the next Lok Sabha election.
 
 
