HYDERABAD: With a high mortality rate for   patients in India, experts have called for strict adherence to the ‘four pillars of cancer treatment’ to bring down deaths and make   affordable.

 Union for International Cancer Control (UICC), which leads the World Cancer Day, has emphasized the need for empowering individuals and cities to lever treatment for all four pillars of cancer treatment and care. In a statement on World Cancer Day, the   has released data on cancer cases in India and other countries. It has called for improved quality of cancer data for public health use, increased number of people with access to early detection and accurate cancer   and greater timely and quality treatment for early and metastatic disease. At aminimum, basic supportive and palliative care service for cancer patients is needed.
 
 “Today, on World Cancer Day, ‘We can. I can.’ improve access and deliver on the global target of a 25% reduction in cancer and non-communicable diseases premature deaths by 2025 in line with the targets of the  ,” the UICC said.
 
 
  
  
 
 There is a global equity gap in accessing early detection, treatment and care services. The global target of a 25% reduction in premature deaths from cancer and non-communicable diseases by 2025 is possible. However, to deliver on this global commitment, the current inequities in risk factor exposure, and in access to screening, early detection and timely and appropriate treatment and care, must be addressed, it added.
 
 Prof Sanchia Aranda, president of UICC, said inequality in access to prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care makes reducing premature deaths from cancer difficult. “If we are committed to achieving this goal, we must act quickly and decisively to make access to cancer services more equal all around the world,” he observed.
 
 The world cancer day is spearheaded by the Union for International Cancer Control. Just as cancer affects everyone in different ways, everyone has the power to take action to reduce the impact that cancer has. World Cancer Day is a chance to reflect on what you can do, make a pledge and take action, experts said.
 
 
