MUMBAI: The assault and subsequent death of Gamdevi police constable   has brought back to memory another shocking instance of a cop being killed two years ago. Constable   had intercepted a juvenile biker at Bandra when the latter's brother struck him on the head with a stick. The juvenile and his brother are awaiting trial, after the police obtained the  's (JJB) approval to try him as an adult.

 
 Attacks on police have been frequently reported in the last decade. The reason, according to retired officers, could be loss of   due to politicisation of the police force and corruption. “No policeman could be touched by a member of the public in our times. The fear for the law is lost now because the law is being enforced selectively. Every time someone violates the law, he needs to face the consequences irrespective of his caste, religion or political affiliation,” said retired police commissioner  . “Unfortunately, nobody thinks the police will do their duty any more. Citizens believe policemen will do what the political party in power asks them to do,” he said. Ribeiro added that people have lost respect for the force as corruption is spread across ranks, whether it is among the officers or the constabulary. “A person feels that if he commits a crime, he can bribe the police and get away,” he said. 
 
 Retired DGP   said it is also necessary for courts to appreciate facts in cases like these and not release the accused on bail. “When an accused walks out, it only brings do-wn the morale of the force as well as the society at large. Cases of assault on law enforcers should not be tolerated,” he said. 
 
 Bike racers, who throng the Western Express Highway at night, have been known to attempt to run over policemen. Two years ago, the special IGP (law and order) had directed traffic policemen to not argue with offenders. They were instructed to let the offender go, if things are getting ugly, after noting down vehicle registration number. Former IPS officer   believes this isn’t a good idea. “If an offender starts to misbehave with the police, he should be booked under section 110 of the Bombay Police Act. Letting him go sends a wrong signal that the police are cowed down. There are other motorists watching on the road who would spread the word among people they know. Deterrence cannot be sacrificed at the altar of expediency,” said Singh. 
 
