Jaipur: With the increased cases of cheating and robbery on pretext of selling various commodities varying from car to mini bus through OLX advertisements, the Bharatpur police on Sunday initiated a massive awareness programme on these activities. Superintendent of police, Bharatpur has also asked station house officers (SHOs) concerned to display signboards urging people to be beware of cons and police will also write to the OLX to display the numbers of the online website. 

 In the year 2017 at least 30 such cases were witnessed where people from various parts of India visited areas including Kaman, Deeg, Pahari and Jurhera dominated by the Meos after seeing various billboards. After they visited these places they were robbed. The seller whose number were put on the OLX site asked the customers to visit their village and after latter visited they were cheated.
 
 Most interesting part is that all these advertisements are in English since people from southern parts became major victims of these gangs.
 
 “We are also creating awareness among people who visit Bharatpur in their vehicles with registration of other states. These people are specifically asked if they are visiting the areas including Deeg, Kaman, Jurhera or Pahari to buy some vehicle and are advised to avoid it. Similarly, we will also displace such advertisements to make people aware of the malpractices of these cons,” said Anil Kumar Tak, superintendent of police, Bharatpur. 
 
 The modus operandi in most of the cases that were witnessed in 2017 cleared that these conmen post advertisements to sell with their contact numbers. After the interested parties contact them and reach the addresses given, they are cheated. Likewise, in a few cases some requirements of event managers were posted online. “In one particular case an event manager of Delhi was asked to organise a wedding at Pahari village. He was asked to visit the spot and see the area for tents and other set ups. After he visited he was robbed at gunpoint and was threatened not to lodge any police case,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
