I've always liked musicians, especially guitarists. “I will marry a long-haired rocker dude," I would emphatically tell my family while busily thumping down on some sinful number. "But first lose some weight", this used to be the standard reply. 

 Luckily for me, I did lose weight, a whole lot of it. Ten kilos to be exact. While looks don't matter and so on, but nobody broods this much at the age of 21. The more weight I lost, the more confident I became. It was during this time that I decided to pursue my dream of writing and shifted to Mumbai on a whim. 
 
 So, with nothing but a head full of dreams and one too many clothes (with matching accessories and shoes), I relocated. I soon realized that I was barely making enough money to pay for my accommodation, let alone buy a decent meal. I quickly packed my bags and ran back home to mommy and daddy. 
 
 Despite the hardships (of being broke, living alone and pissing off my parents), I met quite a few interesting people during my short stint in Mumbai. One amongst them was my husband (of course, I didn't know he’s the one at that time). My first assignment as a reporter was to interview an upcoming metal band from the city. My husband was the lead guitarist of this band. He was a happy-go lucky college student who had ample time in his hands to pursue all his musical dreams. He had formed multiple college   over the years, had met fellow musicians from the Mumbai’s "metal scene" during his college festivals and managed to form bands even outside his college circuit.
 
 Over the years, I've seen this young man record, mix, compose and perform live. He, along with his bands, has created full length albums, band T-shirts, posters, badges and what not. The glitz and the glamour you see on-stage take a lot of effort, man-hours and hard-core practice. They put in their sweat, blood and sometimes even money to sell their music. 
 
 In the past decade, the biggest constant in his life has been his love for music. From a carefree college kid, he has morphed into a responsible family man. He manages to do shows in multiple cities despite his hectic work commitments. And while I say work commitments, I don't mean 9am-6pm. He works 24 hours from Monday to Sunday, flies to multiple cities during a week, and still finds time to meet his band, make new music and record them. 
 
 I've heard him play his   at all odd hours of the day and night. He constantly invests in valuable musical equipments to improve his craft. And the happiest I've ever seen him is on the days he goes to meet his bands for jams. 
 
 While I don't align with his musical preferences, his dedication and commitment to create better music every day is something I truly admire.
 
 Salute to you and all your band members who lead this gruelling dual life. If this isn't raw  , I don't know what is.
 
 -By Gayatri Bhadran
 
 
