Veeres  ,  ,   and Shika Talsania reached Delhi to promote their upcoming film, ' ' recently. At a press conference organised at a city hotel, the actresses talked about why their film should not be put under the category of a ‘chick flick’. They said that it is a movie about four friends, and should not be put under a ‘specific’ category. 

  
  Swara Bhasker and Sonam Kapoor Ahuja 
 
 
 
 Right after the trailer launch, people started calling the movie a chick- flick. When a similar question was posed to Swara here, she replied, “Aisi koi film jisme mahila kirdar hai ya woh film women- centric hai, hum usko chick-flick bana dete hain. Kya hum kabhi bhi ye male-centric film hai ya dude flick hai kehte hai? Jab male-centric films ko ek category mein nahi daal sakte, toh hum ajeeb si category kyun banaye iss film ke liye?”
 Agreeing with Swara, Sonam added, “It is the first time that four mainstream actresses are doing a film together. I think that is empowering in itself. Subject aisa nahi hai, subject is about four regular women, ye chaar kirdaar ladke bhi kar sakte thay. But it is a very entertaining film, I think people will be able to identify with the characters of the film.”
 
  
  Kareena Kapoor Khan
 
 
 Another question which was asked repeatedly to the cast was about the ‘bold’ language that the characters in the movie are using. “I don’t think the language that the characters in our film are using is bold. It is how everybody speaks with their friends. So, I don’t think we were trying to be bold with that. We were trying to tell a story which was very relatable, which is about four friends and their lives,” said Shikha. 
 
  
  
 Kareena, on the other hand, was very excited about the film and said she didn’t feel any pressure regarding the content of the film.“I have no pressure. I am used to working with male actors but this time we are a group of four women and I am waiting to see the reaction of my audience and fans. How will they take this kind of film. Iss film ki bhasha bohot alag hai, the concept of the film is one-of-a-kind and I think we are ready for a film like this,” she added. 
 
  
  Shikha Talsania
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
