PATNA: Altogether 675 graduate and postgraduate students received their   at the annual convocation of   ( ) organized on the campus of   on Tuesday. Of the 90 toppers, who were awarded gold medals, 63 were girls.

 Sucheta Sharma (MSc mathematics), Rohit Kumar (integrated BSc+BEd), Puja Kumari (MSc computer science), Fauzia Parween (MSc life science) and Premlata Kumari (MSc biotechnology) got the ‘Chancellor Gold Medal’.
 
 Abhishek Dwivedi (MA development studies), Sucheta, Anumeha and Fauzia (MSc life science), Shreyasi, Shishukesh, Jaya and Shalini (MA psychology), Binita, Shabdita, Aditi and Anu Priya (MA English), Rakhi, Shabina and Pragti (MA mass communication), Rohit, Snigdha and Ruby (MA economics), Puja, Rachna (MSc environmental science), Md Shah (MTech computer science), Anju (MA political science), Pankaj (MSc statistics) and Premlata received the ‘School Gold Medal’.
 
 Students who received the ‘Centre Gold Medal’ were Abhishek Sucheta, Anumeha, Shreyasi, Binita, Rakhi, Rohit, Snigdha, Puja, Rachna, Shalini, Anu, Ruby, Fauzia, Md Shah, Pragti, Shishukesh, Shabdita, Shabina, Anju, Pankaj, Premlata, Aditi, Jaya, Astha (MSc statistics), Indrajeet and Sadiya (MA economics), Prabhat, Ankita and Nishu (MSc computer science), Nayak, Atif and Jyoti (MTech computer science), Dipinti, Tulika and Asha (MSc biotechnology), Nandan, Shweta, Nijeta and Shahbaz (MSc bioinformatics), Dhirendra, Rashmi and Amita (MSc environmental science), Ravi (BA+BEd), Anand, Priyanka and Andrija (MA development studies) Salma and Vandana (MA political science), Sooraj (MA sociology), Anuradha and Avinita (MSc mathematics), Soumya (MSc life science), Ambika (MA Hindi) and Aditi (MA English).
 
 Nalanda University (NU) chancellor Prof Vijay Pandurang Bhatkar, who was the chief guest on the occasion, congratulated CUSB for starting six new postgraduate courses and for its new building in Gaya that would be functional from July this year.
 
 “When we were students, we had to work really hard to collect any information from various sources. Today, however, students have access to everything. They simply need to utilize the facilities efficiently,” Bhatkar said and urged students to follow tradition and values.
 
 CUSB vice-chancellor (VC) H C S Rathore also presented the annual report of the university. Many dignitaries like NU VC Sunaina Singh, National Institute of Technology-Patna director P K Jain, Mahatma Gandhi Central University (Motihari) VC Arvind Agarwal, CUSB ex-VC Janak Pandey, pro-VC O P Rai and exam controller Rashmi Tripathi attended the programme.
 
 
