They have ruled the silverscreen and have created a niche for themselves in the world of acting. But when actresses  ,   and   decided to get behind the camera, they literally took the reigns in their hands and delivered noteworthy projects. Tisca’s short film Chutney garnered a lot of appreciation from critics and viewers alike, while Priyanka’s Marathi stint   bagged three National Awards. 

 Anushka’s production   was appreciated because of its strong content, and the actress was also appreciated for her foray into a less-explored genre through Phillauri. While there’s no dearth of actresses stepping into the world of production, there are many who, despite carrying the tag of an ‘outsider’, are making waves through content-driven films. 
 
 Priya Sreedharan, who’s debuting as a producer through 3 Storeys, thinks that with more women getting behind the camers, there’s a shift in the kind of content films have. “You have women directors and women  , then you have content which is better for women and you have female-led stories that also results in more women coming into theatres,” she says, adding, “It is difficult and exciting because when you are an outsider, you have to go an extra mile to prove yourself. You cannot get easy access. I am not saying that people who have their family in the business get easy access, they also have to work very hard.” Keeping the same sentiment in mind ahead of Women’s Day, we have the women in business talk about how life is like in a field “fairly dominated by men” and how they’ve had to prove their mettle as a producer in the industry – a profession less explored by women.
 
  
  Priyanka-chopra
 
 
 
 Priyanka Chopra’s Purple Pebble Pictures aims to make movies where the story is the hero. They have produced films like Bam Bam Bol Raha Hai Kashi (Bhojpuri), Ventilator (Marathi) and other regional movies. The production house has backed regional cinema extensively and Priyanka said in a statement in 2016, "Today, entertainment has a wide canvas which is not restricted by language or medium. At Purple Pebble Pictures, we are aspiring to erase boundaries and create an environment where the content of the story is the hero. We are a country filled with exceptional young talent and our endeavour is to provide a platform for talent across the entertainment business to showcase their abilities."
 
 
 She’d added, "We are storytellers and that is only enhanced by being able to tell stories in varied languages. Regional cinema in India has such amazing depth and great cinematic talent. It’s been a long cherished dream to be able to tell stories in various languages. There is a huge audience for these films."
 
  
  Anushka Sharma
 
 
 
 Anushka Sharma is the co-founder of Clean Slate Films with her brother and has produced films like NH10, Phillauri and Pari. Talking about the challenges that she faces as a producer, the actress told us in a previous interview, "Every day there will be a different challenge, every day there is something you have to deal with because it’s a collaborative effort. You are working with many people, so there’s always going to be difference of opinion. Then the idea should be to get everyone on the same page. That’s especially true of us since we make films that are off-centre but yet in that commercial zone." Though the actress has acted in all the three movies that she has produced so far, she points out that she has not turned producer to create more acting assignments for herself. "That wouldn’t be very intelligent. If I fit the part, then why not? But at the same time, we are also pitching films to other actors where I don’t fit in... ‘Clean Slate’ means to start anew without any prejudices or any so-called baggage of a hit," she says.
 
  
  Priya Sreedharan
 
 
 
 Lucky! Lucky Oye! and Shanghai. She has now started her own production house, Open Air Films, and 3 Storeys is their first film. Priya tells us the about the struggle of being an ‘outsider’ in the industry. "In our business, there are many women who work behind the camera and in front of the camera. It is difficult in the sense that the distribution and the business of it is fairly male-dominated. Because more women are becoming producers and directors, you see a certain shift in the content, which is great. It is like a chain reaction. You have women directors and women producers then you have content which is better for women and you have female-led stories that also results in more women coming into theatres. It is a beautiful circle that has been formed and created and the business has already understood and identified it. That is why people are willing to put money into female-oriented films, so I don’t feel the pressure of being the boss,” she says. But did she ever feel the pressure of being an outsider in the industry? “It is difficult and exciting because when you are an outsider, you have to go an extra mile to prove yourself. I am not saying that people who have their family in the business get easy access, but if you are talented and focused, you will find the way to get your foot in," she concludes.
 
 
  
  Tisca Chopra
 
 
 
 Tisca Chopra’s production house, The Eastern Way, has produced short films like Chutney and Chhuri. The actress says that she turned to production because of her love for content-driven films. "I think one wants to make sure that the stories one loves get made in the way they should be made. The right team, the right time and the money being spent in the right way. I have been in films where a lot of money has been wasted on things which never end up on screen and not enough spent on writing. I turned to production basically for the love of story, certain stories," she explains. 
 
 Tisca continues to act and says that being a producer is an add-on. "I enjoy it thoroughly. The sense of responsibility for everyone’s well-being and also making sure that you don’t waste time or talent is the most important thing. When you start anything new, there is always that challenge because you haven’t done anything in a particular way. Other than that, I found it extremely welcoming and warm. Being a female actor, people helped and were all the more generous in every way. People who give lights, people who give you post-production facilities and all my director friends came forward and helped me. Whether it was a Shakun Batra or Imtiaz Ali, they mentored me and helped me through the process for the creatives and introduced me to the best editors, to the best team."
 
 The actress tells us that she is not treated as a ‘female producer’ on the sets. "I have never thought of myself as a woman producer while doing the job. The men are doing what men can do and women are doing what women can do, I am not a combative feminist. We need to be absolutely collaborative and I have had no problem dealing with any of the men on the sets. ‘Oh, we have a woman producer’ is not a thought which crosses anyone’s mind on my sets," she elaborates. 
 
 --With inputs from Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
