It's not just another tree in the verdant premises of  . For generations of students, the   has been synonymous with romance, first love, and a unique puja that takes place on 
  each year. The tree has witnessed countless love stories that began under it, and many believe they lost their single status thanks to 'Damdami Mai ki puja' on Valentine's Day. For the annual puja, the tree is decorated with balloons and posters of  , who is an actress picked by hostel students each year. 

 No one can tell exactly when the tradition of the Virgin Tree puja started, but the Virgin Tree has existed with its matchmaking powers at least since the '70s, as students believed they would find 'the one' under it. Over the years, a puja and a deity were added, and after objections from women students over 'objectifying women as Damdami Mai', a male actor joined her, who, this year, has been christened the 'Love Guru'. 
 
 Alumni have many stories to share about their memories of the tree. While some were scandalised to witness the puja for the first time, others believe the Virgin Tree should be "made the college's logo". But with time, the tree becomes an integral part of any Hinduiite because it is also a place to chill. It's one place where students from the entire university, not just Hindu, have celebrated the last days of their single life.
 
 
 
 I have not spent that kind of time in classrooms as I have at the Virgin Tree, so it is very close to my heart. My heart almost broke when I got to know that the tree was being cut, but that was a big rumour. It clearly proves that the tree is one big celebrity in its own way. I wish I could relive those moments because so much has happened around that tree. I had the weirdest proposal at the Virgin Tree. It was one of those random days like Rose Day and one guy came to me, very sweet fellow, and instead of giving me a flower, he gave me a laddoo. And the custom around that time was that all the hostellers, if they wanted to ask a girl out, they had to do it with a laddoo and not with a rose. So I was really confused and I did not feel like laughing at that time, but I ended up laughing. So he clearly got the idea that I wasn’t interested in going out with him or his laddoo.
 
 
 Rajesh Kumar
 
 The weirdest memory I have of that tree is that I was kidnapped from there. I was organizing a fashion show in college and we were discussing the event when a car pulled up near the tree and I was kidnapped. These guys thought I was having an affair with a particular girl and did not ask me anything. Mere muh pe patti laga di aur le gaye. When they stopped near the Badarpur border, one of the guys saw my face and said, 'Arey, Rajesh tu hai? Hum toh dusre Rajesh ko lene aaye thay'. For me, the Tree is an ideal place for introductions. I think Hindu College ke logo ke saath Virgin Tree ka logo laga dena chahiye!
 
 
 
 
 Every year, there used to be a puja in front of the tree on Valentine's Day. And the Mr Fresher would do the puja, he would be the 'pandit' for the whole ceremony and there would be pictures of actresses around. It was a gala event, and that was why it was such a big deal to be doing that on this day in college. I don't think that it is weird, but when I was in college, there were pictures of Katrina Kaif, Priyanka Chopra and Kareena Kapoor on the Virgin Tree and people would do a puja around it. I have also seen a lot of girls proposing guys on V-Day. It was considered very auspicious. It was said in the college that if you propose to a girl in front of the tree on Valentine's Day, she would never say no.
 
 
 
 On February 13, the members of Pinjra Tod issued a statement against the Virgin Tree puja. It read, "Hindu College, which is very proud of its 'Virgin Tree' celebrations, is at it again. Apparently, this 'ritual' holds a special place in the hearts of Hinduiites, who seem to be amused by the visibly sexual representation of Damdami Mai. In a university space where any conversation about the 'sexual' is regarded as taboo, this kind of celebration is often termed as liberatory, the fascination for a kind of a 'celebration' which doesn't shy away from acknowledging sexual desire, fantasy, use of condoms."
 It added, "Every year, several students gather around a tree amidst a lot of fanfare to paste a picture of a woman and proclaim her as the object of male desire. When questioned about how their 'tradition' might reek of misogyny, they defend their position by asserting that, 'The condoms are used for AIDS awareness and not as an act of desperation and vulgarity.' Let's be clear, there is no problem with condoms being used for a public installation, but the ends that this event serves and the intention behind it has very little to do with spreading 'AIDS awareness'. In fact, it is possible that those seeking to 'spread awareness' are participating in a highly masculinist event which might even be encouraging intolerance towards other forms of sexuality and gender identity. There is no real attempt to celebrate sexuality on an equal footing, amidst an audience charged with masculine aggression."
 
 
 
 
 For this year's Virgin Tree puja, the third-year students of the boys' hostel have picked   as Damdami Mai, the reigning deity of their Valentine's Day puja. Joining her is   as the 'Love Guru' for girls participating in the puja. It was only last year that a male actor was also included in the puja, and this year, the students have named the male deity as Love Guru.
 
  
  Jacqueline Fernandez has been choosen as this year's Damdami Mai
 
  
  Ranveer Singh is chosen as Love Guru this year
 
 
 
 What is common between Katrina Kaif, Disha Patani, Sunny Leone, Lisa Haydon and Sonakshi Sinha? They all have been Damdami Mai at Hindu College's Virgin Tree puja on V-Day over the years. Lalit Kumar, president of the boys' hostel at Hindu, tells us, "Till last year, we had second and third-years choosing the Damdami Mai. We either choose those actresses who have given blockbuster movies in the last one year, or those who have been in the news. This year, the competition was between Aditi Rao Hydari, Nargis Fakhri and Jacqueline Fernandez, and Jacqueline got the highest number of votes. A lot of people last year said that we were objectifying women, so the girls decided to have Love Guru from this year."
 
 
 
 
 
 While this puja has continued for around ten years now, reports in 2015 suggested that the college authorities had chopped off some parts of the tree. Though celeb alumni and current students were ready to stage a protest against this, the college authorities assured everyone that the tree wasn't being cut, but due to construction, it was barricaded for some time only.
 
 
 
  
  The Virgin Tree featured in Rockstar as   aka  's performance spot
 
 Nobody from the recent batches of students knows when exactly the tree became a symbol and place for love and proposals. TV actor Rajesh Kumar hazards a guess – "70s mein shuru hua tha." When we ask him if he's sure, he says, "Main bhi toh guess maar raha hoon. But you know what, I have met people from the '70s batch and they also had memories about the Virgin Tree. So tab toh tha."
 
 
 The ceremony in 2009
 
 Rajesh also tells us that till the year he graduated in 1998, it was only a hangout spot for couples and for those who were single with the hope that they might find 'the one'. "It was only about proposals till our time and with time, it slowly started evolving. The concept of this puja is only a decade old." Evolving from the time when it was a place to find love, singles and hostellers from the college started doing this puja. The ceremony is done by a fresher from the college, or Mr Fresher. On Valentine's Day, the fresher is dressed as a pandit and performs the rituals. Students believe that those who participate in the puja will find a partner 
 .
 
 
 
 
  
  Virgin Tree at Hindu College
 
 
 "When I was in my first year, it was something I could not ever imagine, it was way too dramatic. I had so much fun when I witnessed the ceremony for the first time and each second, it got even more interesting. What I witnessed was capable of freaking out anyone. Condoms hanging on a tree on campus is not something you’ve heard of before," says Saurabh Singh, president of the western dance society.
 
 
 "When I enrolled at Hindu College, the first bizarre thing that came to my knowledge were the stories and traditions attached to the Virgin Tree. I was amazed to see this custom which has been existing for such a long time. The whole thing about posters and condom balloons and the 'prasad' was a huge shock for me," says Gaurav Yadav, library secretary, Hindu College
 
 
 "Being a Hinduiite, it's always fun to participate in all the rituals which are performed during the Virgin Tree puja. Hanging water-filled condoms on the Virgin Tree's branches is the most interesting part. One of the weirdest memories I have of the tree is when one of the water-filled condoms fell on someone's head, and everyone burst out laughing," says Akhil, a third-year student and member of Ibtida
 
 
 "My friends made me kiss the poster of Damdami Mai and the crowd got shouting like hell. Although I felt a bit awkward later, but now when I think of it, I laugh," says Rishabh Tanwar, president of the fashion society of the college.
 
 
  
 
