Gurgaon: Admitting the allegations by the sister of deceased businessman Hitesh Saini, Gurgaon police booked his wife and in-laws for allegedly murdering him. Complainant Vani Chaudhary also raised doubts about her father’s death three years ago at home of her brother’s in-laws. 

 Hitesh Saini was found dead around 1-1.30am on Monday, after he allegedly fell from the 10th floor balcony of his flat in Uniworld Gardens 1, Sector 47. His wife claimed he had got drunk at the New Year’s party they had hosted, and fell off the balcony. 
 
 But Saini’s sister insisted there was foul play and alleged that his wife and her family members had murdered him to get their family property in Delhi’s Sainik Farms.
 
 Following this, police sent the body for post-mortem and then handed it over to Saini’s sister, before filing an FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of IPC against Saini’s wife Yasha, sister-in-law Isha Sharma, father-in-law Krishan Kumar Sharma and mother-in-law Krishna Devi, at Sadar police station on Tuesday night.
 
 In her complaint, Saini’s sister alleged she had many reasons to suspect the accused. “My father had died under similar mysterious circumstances at Hitesh’s in-law’s house three years ago. On that time, they had hurriedly conducted his last rites. I got to know of his death only after that,” recounted Chaudhary. 
 
 “Ever since Hitesh had got married to Yasha, in December 2010, her family had an eye on our property. They used to live in a rented house, but had earlier fraudulently sold a part of our property, with which they hosted their son’s wedding in Singapore and also bought a house nearby. They were pressuring Hitesh to transfer the rest of the property in their name, and he’s been killed for that,” she alleged in her complaint. 
 
 She further raised suspicion that the accused have made fake documents to sell of the Saini property. “Once earlier, they had sold off a part of our 1,000 sq yd Sainik Farms property through fake papers. I suspect they may have fabricated more papers to get the entire property, and then killed him. I want police to do a thorough background check of the family and probe both my brother and my father’s deaths,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Yasha and her family also approached police on Tuesday, saying Saini was depressed and had been having fights with his sister, which could have prompted him to commit suicide.
 
 “As per the complaint, we have registered a case against the wife of the deceased and others. We’re also verifying his sister’s allegations. Action will be taken as per law,” said inspector Vijay Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.
 
 
