LUCKNOW: The   was an hour of terror unleashed on them, recall eyewitnesses to the crime.

 Chhatrapal Yadav (65), who is undergoing treatment at  , said a chill runs down his spine when he thinks of Tuesday’s incident. Shaken to his core, he said, “I can only thank god. When I recall the incident, iron rods and crowbars flash before my eyes. They were brutal, barbaric and felt no mercy on our cries. I am surprised as to what they were made up of. Under their piercing eyes and commanding voices, we could not utter a single word.”
 
 Ankit, an eight-year-old boy in  , said he was asleep when the attackers struck.
 
 “I heard sudden banging on the doors...as soon as my uncle opened it, he was thrashed. Later, they also slapped my face,” he said.
 
 Ekta, who stays in the house in front of the one attacked, was shivering while recollecting the event. She said the whole incident was like a nightmare. “They struck like a bolt, thrashed them and looted them. Their eyes were red and faces were covered,” she said.
 
 “We will have to work harder to cope with the loss of wealth but the shooting of Shamu has shaken us,” Ekta, a relative of the Rawats, told TOI.
 
 Reema Devi, a relative of   victim Shiv Kumar Kanaujiya, could not stop sobbing while narrating the incident.
 
 She told TOI over the phone, “It was like hell’s fury on us all at once. The robbers entered the village and barged into the house of my brother-in-law, brutally attacking him.”
 
 Ashish Kumar, a BA student in Sarawan village, said he had lost all hope in policing in his village.
 
 “Despite the dacoity in   and prior to that in Chinhat, the police made no effort to crack the cases,” he said.
 
 He also alleged there was no patrolling in the village and that police were not seen after dusk.
 
 Uttam Kumar, a carpenter in of Sarawan village, said, “I was asleep and woke up with a start when I heard an unpleasant sound. Some men were entering a house with big iron rods. It was very frightening. I still tremble recollecting it.”
 
 
