MUMBAI: The entire team and support staff of Young Boys, a club from  , are facing a life ban from the   (MDFA) for assaulting players from the opposing team after a super division match of the   at the   on Tuesday.

 
 A couple of players from Young Boys weren’t happy with the referee’s decision regarding an offside towards the end of their 4-2 loss to Salsette FC (Thane). After the final whistle, a couple of players started arguing with the referee, threatening to punch him. The referee immediately pulled out a red card which further irked the revolting player.
 
 After a player from Salsette FC tried to calm the situation, the Young Boys’ player attacked him. Immediately, all the Young Boys players joined the fight and began beating up players from the Thane team. If that wasn’t enough, the spectators who had turned up to support the Madanpura club also entered the ground and began running after the players from Salsette FC.
 
 A video of the match which was circulated on social media shows about 10 men ganging up on 25-year-old Siddhant Shetty, continuously kicking him. Shetty was injured just below his eye with stud marks clearly visible. A little higher and his condition could have been a lot worse. A shaken Shetty told TOI later that he’s never witnessed such hooliganism in the eight years he has been playing in this league.
 
 “They surrounded me, put me on the ground and started kicking me. I had no idea what was happening and all I wanted to do was run away,” the bio-medical engineer said. “Since they also beat up the on-duty medic mistaking him for a player, I had to come to Thane and then go to the doctor. These people have no right playing football.”
 
 While there were three   officials present at the ground, they could do little to control the fight. An official said that there were no security personnel present at the ground, which is a prerequisite to host any match.
 
 An official from the disciplinary committee, who did not want to be named, told TOI that the team could be banned from playing any official match in Mumbai and Maharashtra.
 
 “The video evidence is conclusive enough. The way the players hit their opponents was brutal and contrary to the spirit of the game. No team should suffer like this and therefore when this issue comes up in front of the disciplinary committee of the MDFA, I’m sure they will be banned for life,” the official said.
 
 While it’s believed a hearing will be held before the end of this week, Salsette FC players are set to lodge an FIR on Wednesday.
 
