NAGPUR: With the First Division League final finishing on Tuesday, the   ( ) successfully conducted yet another season of region’s various football leagues. The season, however, got delayed due to unavailability of grounds but the district body added some positives this year.

 
 The annual football league played in four divisions — Elite, Super, Senior and First — witnessed a participation of 62 teams including a handful of teams from Kamptee and Gumgaon.
 
 A total of 212 matches were played on five grounds including SECR Motibagh Stadium, Police Line Takli Ground, Parade ground in Police Line Takli, Central Railway Ajni Institute and  . All these 212 matches were officiated by 30 qualified referees.
 
 This year, the NDFA got success in attracting JSW as their title sponsors, who gave away 7.5 lakh as the sponsorship fund. The NDFA distributed a prize fund of 5.5 lakh.
 
 While the top-ten affiliated teams of the NDFA played 59 matches in the Elite division in which city’s oldest club the Young Muslim Football Club from Mominpura once again underlined their supremacy.
 
 The surprise package of the season was Nagpur Academy FC team, who stunned the seasoned campaigners to finish second. Kamptee’s   were relegated to the lower division and will be replaced by GRC Kamptee — the champions of the Super League.
 
 Much like the Elite format, 12 teams fought for supremacy in the Super division and played out 60 matches amongst them. As a champion of the Super division, GRC Kamptee will stake their claim to be amongst the top-ten teams next season. The experienced Nagpur Blues FC missed the qualifying berth with a second place finish. While Ansar will replace GRC next season.   were relegated to the Senior division. They will be replaced by MOIL Eleven from Gumgaon — the champion of Senior division.
 
 In the Senior division, 30 teams, divided in four groups, fought around 70 matches with the Gumgaon outfit emerging as the best followed by IFC Chankapur. With the NDFA allowing all those interested teams to participate in Senior division this year, the district body decided to relegate as many as 12 teams to the first division.
 
 In the junior category, 23 matches were played in first division between 10 teams and the champion Big Ben Juniors got the promotion in next season’s Senior division.
 
 On the entire league this season, NDFA president Haresh Vora said, “This time the league went in a very appropriate manner and with the support of JSW, Police and Railway department everything was conducted smoothly. The biggest positive this year was that we created a new generation of football players by making it compulsory for Elite teams to field at least three U-19 players. We did this on the lines of Santosh Trophy and I am satisfied to see the performance of these young players competing against the best.”
 
 The only negative this season was the criticism by Nagpur Football Club on the decision of referees during the matches. Elaborating on the negative side, Vora said, “There were a few incidents when the club officials and supporters of NFC created minor problems to the league by criticizing the referees but the disciplinary committee took proper sanctions. The matter, however, is kept on hold as NFC went to the court and we are waiting for the decision. Barring this small hurdle everything went well.”
 
 While the NDFA league in four divisions went well, matches for the school students will be conducted in April after the completion of examination period, informed NDFA secretary Iqbal Kashmiri.
 
 
 
 
  divisions where the teams were divided in JSW NDFA League
 
 
  teams divided in four divisions participated this season
 
 
  total number of matches played
 
 
  referees officiated in the league. Same No. of teams participated in Senior division
 
 
  prize fund distributed
 
