Hunger strikes, slogan shouting agitations and attempts to besiege railway stations and airports rocked the state on Tuesday as parties across the political spectrum staged protests demanding the setting up of the   Management Board. 

 On a day when chief minister   and his deputy O   joined the hunger strike by   workers in Chennai, the BJP slammed the protests as an eyewash. Talking to reporters in Coimbatore, BJP state chief Tamilisai Sounderarajan also dared AIADMK MPs to quit. They said they will quit, only to quickly backtrack,'' she said. She slammed DMK for the state-wide protests by the party and said these will not yield results. The BJP is very firm on fighting till the end to get Tamil Nadu its rightful share of Cauvery water. Protests are an eyewash. Rather, the solution can be achieved through legal means, which the BJP is pursuing,'' she said.
 
 But across the state, the BJP came in the line of fire in all the protests.
 
 The protest spots in Cauvery delta districts turned virtual battlefields with police struggling to control the agitating party men. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader T T V Dhinakaran along with farmers association leaders P R Pandian and P Ayyakannu and hundreds of farmers besieged the   raising slogans against the BJP. At one point, the protesters attempted to barge into the airport. However, a large posse of police and CISF personnel blocked them. After several minutes of commotion, police arrested Dhinakaran, Pandian, Ayyakannu and scores of farmers.
 
 With the AIADMK and the DMK vying with each other to stage the protests, workers of both parties blamed each other for the failure to form the CMB. "The DMK has done great injustice to the people on issues like Mullaiperiyar and Cauvery. They did not act when they were a part of the central government. They are play-acting now to win the favour of the people," said minister Sellur K Raju, who was leading the agitation along with minister R B Udayakumar in Madurai.
 
 In Coimbatore, more than 5000 AIADMK workers sat on a fast at Gandhipuram condemning the Centre. Meanwhile, their DMK counterparts attempted to protest in front the Coimbatore International Airport. However, they were stopped by police at SITRA junction and arrested. In Tirunelveli, a large number of AIADMK workers participated in the fast led by Adi Dravida welfare minister V M Rajalakshmi, AIADMK organising secretary P H Manoj Pandian and Radhapuram MLA I S Inbadurai. In Tuticorin, minister for information and publicity Kadambur C Raju led the fast in which thousands of workers participated. In Coimbatore, Trichy and several other places, shops downed shutters to express solidarity with the protesting farmers.
 
 
