HYDERABAD: With human influenza (swine flu) activity refusing to subside, the World Health Organisation( ) has warned that vaccination may not provide 100% protection against the new variants, though it may serve as the first line of defence.

 The reason is increase in cases of swine flu B viruses. Though A type viruses continue to be dominant, B viruses are fast increasing. About 40% of the swine flu activity in India is due to type B viruses. There are two types of B viruses and of them,   lineage contribute to about 90%c of the cases in these parts. The other B lineage virus is Victoria.
 
 Among the A type, Michigan lineage has taken over the California strain in  . This explained the increased activity in swine flu cases during 2016-17. However, during 2017-18 the B type virus of Yamagata lineage is resulting in spurt in swine flu activity.
 
  
 According to experts, the change in virus strains may change swine flu dynamics necessitating new vaccines and drugs. However, the WHO expects “currently circulating seasonal flu strains to be susceptible to (drugs like) oseltamivir and zanamivir for treating flu”.
 
 The WHO report is based on the data collected from 108 countries including India for the period December 25, 2017 to January 7, 2018. As many as 2.25 lakh samples were tested to arrive at the conclusion that B type viruses are increasing. The WHO table on swine flu activity shows about 40% of the cases reported in India belong to B type viruses.
 
 In fact, the flu season of 2016-17 continued in 2017-18 without a let-up in Hyderabad. While Michigan type in the A virus took over in the initial months, it later gave way to Yamagata type in the B virus.
 
 The world’s apex health body has urged nations to take steps to shore up case management, compliance with infection control measures, and vaccination of high-risk groups against the disease.
 
 Referring to the vaccines, the WHO report released on Wednesday said “though flu vaccines might not provide full protection, they remain the best line of prevention.”
 
 An analysis of the flu activity map of the WHO reveals that many parts in India including Telangana has 11 to 20% positive cases, which is “low” when compared with other regions in the world. Many countries had above 30% positive cases.
 
 
