MADURAI: Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB), which is in the eye of a recruitment scam storm, has told the Madras high court that it would make the selection process fool-proof by taking additional measures, including discontinuation of the practice of outsourcing recruitment process to private agencies.

 A submission to this effect was made before a division bench of justice M Sathyanarayanan and justice   on Friday, when the court took up the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) initiated on the basis of The Times of India’s article published on January 26. The article narrated the anatomy of the scam and laid bare how TRB had compromised the selection process by outsourcing the entire process, right from printing the OMR sheets to uploading the final marks of candidates. The court had taken suo motu note of the piece and issued notices to TRB and TNPSC asking them as to why not the   or a special investigation team under the supervision of the high court probe the scam.
 
 On Friday, however, TRB member-secretary D Uma submitted an affidavit before the court stating that board had taken all necessary steps to maintain the integrity and secrecy at all levels for the past 30 years without room for any complaint. Now, the board has decided to further improve the process by taking some additional measures which are under active consideration.
 
 After TRB received complaints from a few candidates over discrepancies in their marks, it rescanned all OMR answer sheets. Then, after 119 representations were received from candidates, TRB lodged a complaint against M/s Datatec Methodex (P) Ltd., she said. 
 
 On his part, TRB standing counsel V R Shanmuganathan informed the bench that police had arrested nine people and the case was under investigation.
 
 Counsel for   (TNPSC) D Sivaraman said the scam related to the TRB, in which the TNPSC had no nexus. The TNPSC already has a fool-proof system, he said, adding that it involved private agency only for the purpose of receiving applications and uploading hall tickets of candidates in website and printing OMR sheet. Once the selection process started, there will be no role for private agencies in the process, he said, adding, “as far as TNPSC is concerned, there is no chance for manipulation.”
 
 The bench called for a report from TNPSC chairman, and adjourned the case to March 9 for further hearing.
 
 TRB’s proposed additional measures: 
 
 1 Not involving any private agency in recruitment process
 
 2 Purchasing of equipment including scanning machines
 
 3 Procuring separate server from NIC currently and purchase own in future with the assistance of ELCOT
 
 4. Taking care of server maintenance and related technical works by using ELCOT
 
 5. Printing of OMR answer sheets in government press and assigning barcodes by TRB itself
 
 6. Bringing 2 parts in OMR – Part A for having examination details of the candidates and Part B for answers, which will help anonymity in the process
 
 7. To convert a specified area as strong room with double lock system as in the case of election process to keep electoral voting machines, where all confidential works will be done
 
 8. Bringing all area under CCTV surveillance, storing the backup for minimum one year
 
 9. Introducing biometric based entrance system to access the area
 
 
