
  A massive blaze caused by drums of chemicals catching fire at a house in a Meerut village led to the death of a woman and two minor girls.
 
  The incident happened on Friday afternoon in Siwalkhas village, 15 km from Meerut city. Chief fire officer Ajay Kumar Sharma said, “There were around 15 drums containing an unspecified but highly inflammable solvent in the two-room dwelling. Another 15 of them were kept in the outer part of the house. It was the stock kept inside that caught fire and blasts started occurring, involving other drums also. We reached the spot with a few minutes along with five fire tenders and were able to save five of the family members but those trapped in the inner room could not be saved. Three of the firemen also got singed by the heat but not too seriously.”
  
  Superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “In the preliminary investigations it has come to light that  , the owner of the house, is a small-time trader who sells adulterated diesel after mixing solvent in it. He was also involved in filling of gas cylinders and the reports we have received suggest that he was filling a cylinder which caught fire, that later spread to the drums.”
  
  Eight members of the family used to stay in the house. Fire department staff managed to rescue Babu Ram, his son Suraj and others but Babu Ram’s daughter Rakhi (30) and his granddaughters aged 6 and 12 perished in the blaze. Even those who survived have varying degrees of burns and are admitted at the district hospital.
  
  Villagers, meanwhile, had heated discussions with police as they alleged that police were well aware of the illegal activity but did nothing to stop it. Ramesh Kumar, a neighbour said, “It was an open secret that Babu Ram’s family was in the illegal business of mixing diesel with solvents and selling it at a profit illegally. Besides, he was also into refilling of cylinders. We had complained to police so many times, but they had turned a blind eye towards this activity as they probably were getting a cut from the profits.”
