MUMBAI: With a key navigation aid switched off for upgrade, the city airport witnessed severe air traffic congestion leading to an average 45 to 60-minute delays in arrivals and departures on Friday. Close to 230 arrivals and 350 departures were delayed, according to flightradar24, a flight tracking app. 

 
 The Instrument Landing System (ILS), a life-saver for congested airports, will not be available on runway 27 till June 5 as new and better equipment is being installed. “With no ILS, the separation between aircraft approaching to land is now up from 10km to about 12km. Each aircraft takes longer to carry out an approach, touch down and vacate the runway. As the day progresses, the airspace gets more and more congested,” said a senior air traffic controller.
 
 
  
 
 A senior airline commander said: “Normally, we are instructed to carry out 1-2 holds (the circling above a city) over Mumbai when coming in to land. On Friday evening, most pilots had to carry out 4-5 holds.” 
 
 One holding pattern is completed in about six minutes. “Most flights to Mumbai would have flown in with extra fuel to avoid a diversion,” he added.
 
 Passengers scheduled to travel into or out of the city this month, especially those booked on morning and evening peak-hour flights, could expect similar delays. 
 
 With the ILS on the main runway switched off from Thursday, delays had begun from last night itself. Weather woes added to it in the morning as strong winds whipped runway 27, forcing flight operations to be moved to secondary runway 14 between 9.53am and 11.40am, said a   spokesperson. Though the ILS on runway 14 was operational, it isn’t as efficient as runway 27 as it has a poor taxiway network and so landing aircraft take longer to vacate the runway post touchdown. Also, the day saw a lot of charter movement, which tends to slow down air traffic. 
 
 “One flight was cancelled. There were no flight diversions,” said a   spokesperson.
 
 Among the passengers who were the most hit were those on   flight IX 247. The 1pm departure was moved to 2pm, and then at 2.15pm, after the passengers boarded the aircraft it stood on tarmac till about 7.30pm. “First, they cited air traffic congestion and then there was an engineering problem. It was unbearably hot and humid inside the aircraft. We requested the crew to deplane us, but they were rude,’’ said  , one of the 180 passengers on board. An   spokesperson said passengers were not allowed to de-board as it would have taken time to board them again. “We were trying to solve the engineering problem as fast as possible. Then 10 passengers said they didn’t want to fly and so we had to take their bags out,’’ the official said.
 
 Unlike most major airports where flight operations are carried out simultaneously on parallel runways, Mumbai operates out of a single runway. “If Mumbai had parallel runways, then they could have moved the departures on the runway with no ILS. This then is a unique situation as hardly any major airports the world over would be handling over 400 arrivals in a day without the aid of ILS,’’ said a commander. A source said: “Efforts are on to finish the installation and calibration by June 2.”
 
 With no ILS on runway 27, aircraft doing an approach to land have to slow down earlier. “When ILS is operational, landing flaps and gears need to be lowered only when the aircraft is down to 2,000-1,500 ft,’’ said a senior airline commander. But without an ILS, when what’s called a VOR/DME or non-precision approach is carried out, the aircraft should be configured for landing with flaps and gears down by as early as 2,600-3,000 ft. The aircraft speed needs to be reduced before flaps and landing gear are lowered. For instance, an A320 aircraft carrying out an approach to land on runway 27 will need to reduce its speed from about 300kmph to 240kmph when it is about 2,600ft to touch down. “When the speed is reduced, the distance between two aircraft on approach to land increases,’’ said the commander. In a non-precision approach, the pilot looks out for the runway and should spot it to continue descend below 1,070ft.
 
