PUNE: Amol Kale, who was arrested in connection with the murder of journalist-activist   in Bengaluru, is a "simple and quiet man", often spoke about   as a way of life. Once in a while, he would accompany vans selling books on Hindu and Vedic cultures. 

  
 This is how residents of Akshay Plaza in Pune's Manik Colony described Kale, one of the three murder suspects arrested from the Goa-Karnataka border on May 21. "We can't believe such a simple man with a simple lifestyle can be involved in a heinous crime," said a resident. Akshay Plaza, where Kale lives, is a modest four-storeyed building without elevators. Its staircases are congested and residents are mostly middle class. Kale's wife, Jagruti, refused to comment on the arrest. "I don't want to talk," she said. 
 
 Residents claimed a police team visited the building a few days ago. "They asked for Kale's address. We don't know what happened after that," said one.
 
 According to neighbours, Kale, about 48 years old, stays with his wife, elderly mother and a five-year-old son in a small apartment on the first floor. His father passed away about six months ago. "His son goes to a nearby pre-primary school and the couple leads a very simple life," a neighbour said. A resident of Manik Colony said, "The family has lived here for 15-18 years. His father ran a paan shop. Kale and his wife hardly interacted with residents of the colony; he would be out of the city most of the time and visited home sporadically."
 
 Another resident said, "Kale has done some diploma course. He is not employed and supplies some minor machine parts to companies."
 
 The neighbour said a van selling books visited the locality a couple of times a year and Kale would accompany it. The van, which Kale used to refer to as a library, sold books on Hindu and Vedic cultures. "We don't know if he was affiliated to any right-wing group or organization. But he always talked about Sanatan Dharma and its way of life."
 
 DCP (zone III)  , said, "Kale was detained in an attempt-to-murder case on May 21. Subsequently, a   police team came to Pimpri-Chinchwad on May 23. They wanted to search his residence and our team accompanied them. They (Karnataka team) seized something from his house, but we don't have any details." Shinde added that Pune police don't have any record of Kale. 
 
 
