NEW DELHI: Around 50,000   are trafficked to or through India every year and around 5 lakh Bangladeshi women and children aged 12 to 30 years have been illegally sent to India in the last decade.

 Citing data from various reports and estimation of NGOs, a   study reveals, human trafficking from Bangladesh to India has grown to such a magnitude that it now works directly on the principle of demand and supply with a well lubricated machinery of touts working on both sides of the border with the first link in the chain being  .
 
 The human trafficking syndicate operating in various cities/states of India raise their demand to touts in Bangladesh directly or through agents in Kolkata, following which the syndicate based on the other side of border supply the victims. The Indian syndicate demands young girls and women mostly for brothels, low grade hotels for prostitution, dance bars, massage parlours, employment as domestic workers, and forced marriages besides feeding the market for unskilled or semi-skilled labour.
 
 In order to meet targets, BSF says, there is a network of touts in whole of the Bangladesh starting from the capital city Dhaka and further linking to border districts till the last village. There are agents and sub-agents who have contacts with people in border villages. 84% of these touts are male while 16% are female.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi in the study titled “Human Trafficking: Modus Operandi of touts on Indo-Bangladesh border”, BSF says the Bangladeshi syndicate lures people by promising them a better life in India with good jobs, household work, offering work in movies, false promises of marriage other than abducting young girls.
 
 The Bangladeshi touts typically look for girls from poor and vulnerable families in Bangladesh. “…….there is so much of poverty in Bangladesh that the touts easily gets their target at bus stands and railway stations across the country,” says BSF. The victims, it says, are mostly Bangladeshi internal migrants.
 
 According to the BSF study, most of the victims are trafficked from Jessore and Satkhira to Gojadanga and   in Bangladesh. The border here is completely unfenced and population resides till zero line, making it easier for touts to bring people into India. The Benopole border crossing, known as the south-west transit point, is also most commonly used by the touts as it is the easiest land route to India.
 
 Other districts of Bangladesh - Kurigram, Lalmonnirhat, Nilphamari, Panchagarh, Thakurgaon, Dinajppur, Naogaon, Chapai Nawabganj and   are also used for human trafficking, says BSF. “Over a period of time, Bangladeshi touts have built up powerful bases in the border districts and these are now favourite transit points of human trafficking,” it says.
 
 Victims, arrested touts and locals interviewed by BSF for the study claimed that for every person to cross over to India, tout has to pay 200-400 takas (Bangladeshi currency) to the Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) but BSF’s involvement was not found at organisation level. “Often there were instances of individual involvement (of BSF personnel),” says the study.
 
 Post trafficking, the victims are kept inside border villages for some time before they are further sent to Indian cities. For this also, there is a well-oiled network of touts. In India, the most favoured destinations are Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru while other cities preferred by the traffickers include Raipur and Surat.
 
 The researchers have recommended focus on border patches which are vulnerable to trafficking, cooperation from Bangladeshi authorities and self-employment projects in India so that border population on India’s side does not indulge in trafficking.
 
 
