NAGPUR: An   on Tuesday served as an excellent consolation to the students appearing for Std XII CBSE board exam after facing tough papers earlier. 

 Experts as well as the students were pleased with facing an uncomplicated exam, with the passing percentage sure to shoot up.  , a chemistry teacher at Delhi Public School, Kamptee Road, said, “The paper was mostly conceptual-based, so the students having a thorough study of NCERT textbook will definitely excel. It was a well-constructed paper and moderately exhaustive. I think the students will score marks effortlessly.”
 
 The students outside the centres looked quite content with their performances. Student  , however, felt the crunch of time regarding solving numerical questions. “CBSE should allow calculators for numerical questions as most of our time gets wasted in finding values from the log book. The exam was definitely easy and despite electrochemistry posing some difficulties, I managed to do well,” she said.
 
 Vidisha More also shared the same concern and said, “I had solved many sample papers to practice time management, but even then, the calculation part of chemical reactions took up a lot of my time. The use of calculators must be allowed.”
 
 The students are currently using ‘Log Books’ for the calculation part in chemistry as well as physics as usage of calculators is prohibited. Pisipati said, “Students should be aware of the usage of log books, and with enough practice, they can master the technique. Unfortunately, all the tough and lengthy calculations were asked in the paper today which might have proved to be an obstacle.”
 
  said, “The paper was a piece of cake other than the chemical reactions from organic chemistry, which were a bit difficult.”  , her batch mate, said, “Our prelims were tougher than today’s paper and I had definitely prepared for a harder exam. The calculations of chemical reactions and even nomenclature were quite easy to my surprise.”
 
 Chemical reactions were apparently a sour patch as maximum students faced problem in it. Vanshika Mediratta said, “The questions were straightforward and I only had difficulty in solving the reactions. Rest, the paper was smooth.”
 
 Tanya Verma said, “Organic chemistry has the maximum weightage of marks, so it took up a lot of my time. But due to our teacher’s proper guidance, I could solve it in time. Overall, it was easy.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Moderate
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Lengthy
 
 
