In 2008, the Vasantrao Naik Institute of Social Sciences and Arts ( ) got a full-time director after a long gap. Though the institute offers only humanities courses, the new director   had a ‘pure’ science background. Khobragade, hailing from a remote village of Mohadi in Nagbhid tehsil, started his career as a science teacher after completing his MSc from Institute of Science in Nagpur. Yet, he accepted the challenge and is credited with Morris College’s development.

 The Morris College charge was handed over to him after he cleared the   (MPSC) exam in 2008. The college, which badly needed an impetus then, saw a series of development and infrastructure upgrade and even earning 27 medals in a single Nagpur University convocation. Similarly, the Institute of Science at Gadchiroli became one of the most popular among students after the Khobragade touch. At both postings, he has left behind a legacy of excellence and hard work.
 
 Currently, he is assigned the   (IFS) which is having a full-time director for the first time after it was set up in 2011. IFS is being run from its temporary premises at Institute of Science.
 
 In this interview with TOI, the IFS director speaks about his vision for the institute, and how forensic studies have changed him as a person. Excerpts...
 
 
 
 A. Rising crimes, especially new types of offences, had led to the state government’s decision to start IFS in Mumbai in 2009-10. The then   (FSL) director   led a study group comprising police officers and experts deliberated on starting such an institute. Their philosophy was not just to teach investigation of crimes but also how forensic science can help prevent them for peace to flourish in society. Aurangabad and Nagpur institutes came up in 2011. Today, the number of activities held here surpasses that of other two cities.
 
 
 
 
 A. The course offered by these institutes too was designed by the Krishnamurthy-led group. Since then, whatever relevant updates are available we have incorporated. But, the original framework is same as it was in the beginning. We are also having a sort of student exchange with the local investigating agencies. Sometimes our students visit police stations to learn, sometime they come to seek solutions.
 
 
 
 
 A. Our focus is to teach how forensic expert can help in justice delivery. Presently, the major study area is focused on recovering deleted data from social media and gadgets, make investigation 100% perfect, recover fingerprints, evidence gathering and secret features of currency. Our alumni is helping society in some way or the other. Some of them have also started their own companies. This was a neglected field for a long time. Now, with trained human resource we can make up for the lost time and achieve new breakthroughs.
 
 
 
 
 A. In fact, I learned a lot. Coming from a different area of study, this field has changed me a lot. The saying ‘All that glitters is not gold’ is true. I was amazed to know that cases of poisoning can be traced from hair or for that matter I was under false impression that if I delete SMS or WhatsApp it is lost forever. Through the subject human psychology, I realized there is evidence even in words. So, I now pay more attention to my vocabulary.
 
 
 
 
 A. This week, the government has allocated six acres for IFS at Mihan. I am planning to make it world class. In  , there is a forensic university. Every subject currently being taught here can be made a branch of study itself. There are six subjects — forensic science, forensic physics, forensic biology, forensic chemistry, forensic cyber and psychology. I would like to see all of them as independent branches at the new facility.
 
 
