Wrong-side driving claimed two lives on May 6 when a Scorpio speeding down the wrong lane of   ploughed head-on into a cab inside Sikanderpur underpass. A young IndiGo pilot in the back seat, who the cab was taking to the airport, sustained severe injuries. 

 TOI launched a campaign on the problem of wrong-side driving that is common in the city as well as other parts of NCR the next day. We found that at some places, wrong-side driving was just a bad habit that keeps festering because there is no punishment, like a spot fine. But on several other places, lengthy detours for a U-turn encourage people to break   rules. These are road design and engineering issues that need to be immediately looked at. But in the course of our campaign, we constantly received feedback and suggestions from our readers, who offered their views on how to curb wrong-side driving. Here is a selection.
 
 Stringent laws needed against violators
 
 The situation today calls for strict enforcement of traffic regulations and stringent action against violators. Wrong-side driving is most rampant on Golf Course Road, Hamilton Court Road and St Thomas Marg. Why can’t police target these areas and impose heavy   on violators for a period until everybody falls in line? — Kishore Rao
 
 There is a solution to wrong-side driving, and we should follow it. In Bangladesh, Dhaka traffic police have introduced a new device to prevent vehicles from travelling in the wrong direction. Named ‘Protirodh’, the device has metal spikes that will retract if a vehicle runs in the right direction. The spikes puncture tyres, immobilising vehicles travelling in the opposite direction — Jayant Kochar
 
 The only way to stop wrong-side driving is to impose strict punishment on violators. Increase in the fine is of no help, which is very evident. The law must be more stringent — Anand Raj
 
  Breaking rules common across city
 
 Right outside the Airtel and Micromax offices in Udyog Vihar, the service lane is one way, but people drive in the wrong direction to avoid taking the U-turn which is, comparatively, very far — Aviral Agarwal
 
 The road coming from Galaxy Hotel in Sector 15 opens to the service lane, where commuters have to travel for about 1km before they can hit the Gurugram-Delhi expressway. Commuters drive on the wrong side of the lane for about 200m to enter the expressway — Alexander Aloysius Toppo
 
 If you are coming from Golf Course Road, going under Sikanderpur Rapid Metro station and taking a turn towards Cyber City, the autos always take a wrong turn. Create police flying squads and fine people driving on the wrong side — Rakesh
 
 Many vehicles drive in the opposite direction in front of the CNG gas station just before Huda City Centre — N Balachandran
 
 At Sohna Road, people prefer going on the wrong side of the service road, instead of taking a U-turn. This leads to traffic congestion, especially near Vatika Business Park building — Ruhani
 
 People drive on the wrong side on the Old Delhi-Gurugram Road, especially outside the Maruti Suzuki plant, to avoid a longer route — Ishan Mohan
 
 Awareness about consequences necessary
 
 Fines are just not enough, drivers must be reminded of the consequences of their behaviour. Therapy sessions could be one solution to the problem. Accidents could be reduced if traffic violators go through these sessions — Mamta Malik
 
 Government should take strict steps to reduce speeding on roads. This includes better education for motorists and stringent fines. Police officers are needed to ensure people don’t drive on the wrong side — Pallavi Joshi
 
 Proper awareness is mandatory; the driver must be aware of the consequences of their driving. Videos can be a wonderful idea to teach people about the right way to drive — Aarti Shrivastav
 
 
