Years ago, this four member band began as ‘SQS Project’. Though there were names changes post that, the four member band still comprises the same artistes,   S (bass guitars, backing vocals),   (lead vocalist, piano),   Dhanraj (drums and percussion) and   (lead guitarist). 

 In 2003-2004, Venky,   and Sanam, played in a school band during their year in Indian School, Muscat. Years later, Venky introduced Keshav to Samar,   when he’d moved to Mumbai to work in a music distribution company. Keshav says, “We hit it off well at my garage, where we jammed on original compositions and got our first chance to perform them live at the Times Music   competition. We ended up winning with Venky joining us at the finals and this is how our journey began.” In 2010, post their win Supastars win, they changed their band name to SQS Supastars. And in 2013, they rechristened the band, Sanam. 
 
 The fact that they were friends first, helped in the music making process and in discovering their sound. Venky says, “We love pop music and like the catchy hooks and melodies, and that’s what is common between our personal musical influences. We like to highlight the melody in each of our songs and adorn with pretty arrangements and harmonies. Whether the song production or the aesthetics of our music videos, we like to keep it clean and de-cluttered - as the saying goes, less is more.”
 
 Samar adds, “Our music compositions revolve around a strong vocal line, catchy melodies/hooks and an overall easy listening vibe”
 
 The band has composed and continue to compose a lot of original music apart from doing occasional covers. Sanam says, “We will be releasing many of them this year. Since we compose, record, direct, shoot and edit most of our songs and videos, this pretty much takes up all our time. This year, you will hear many of our original songs and some of our earlier ones include ‘Itni Door’, ‘Garmi Di Tu’, ‘Ishtyle’, ‘Agar Tum Suno’, ‘Aaja Aaja’, ‘Jaanta Tha’, ‘Nazron Ko Nazron Se’, ‘Khushnaseeb’ and ‘Shama Hai Jali’. 
 
 The band is not just into music but is also health freaks who exercise, eat healthy and do yoga. The foursome is also into social work and support NGOs that work for human rights, child sexual abuse. 
 “Over the years, we’ve been getting numerous messages from fans, saying that our music has brought their entire family together. This spreading of love and happiness through our music is what we consider as one of our greatest achievements,” signs off Sanam.
 
