BHUBANESWAR: The aroma of spices and fresh pickle intermingled with that of mouth-watering dishes as customers stopped to treat themselves to good food while shopping for embroidered clothes and handicrafts at Sisira Sarasa - the annual rural fair that has helped women entrepreneurs across India make roaring trade. 

 The 10-day fair, at the Exhibition Ground in the capital city, will conclude on Monday. 
 
 "I have been coming to this fair for the last several years and I have some regular customers who place their orders in advance and collect it from here," said Kalpana Bindhani from  , who sold pickles, jaggery, rice, papad and various other food products. Kalpana's small organization employs seven women. 
 
 Rukmini Munda, a tribal woman from   district sold organic products like neem leaf powder, neem oil, tamarind paste, tulsi leaf powder, turmeric powder and arrowroot powder. "All our stuff was sold out in the first few days, so we had to bring more products from our village. Ten women from our village have formed a self-help group and have been collecting these items from the forest and selling them after processing and packaging them," said Munda. 
 
 Organized by the   (ORMAS), an autonomous body under the Panchayati Raj department, the fair made business worth Rs 4.9 crore by Tuesday. "The government has targeted sales of Rs 11 crore this year; last year sales were above Rs 9 crore. The artisans have received a huge response this time," said ORMAS director, B N Das. As many as 653 rural artisans from 24 states displayed their products at 398 stalls in the fair. Besides, live demonstrations of golden grass craft, kotpad weaving and terracotta works are being held. "The fair is a platform for us to display products and also share ideas with people from other parts of the country," said Madhuri Kumari, a seller of Madhubani print works from Bihar.
 
 Carpets, crockery, lamps, tussar silk sarees, brasswork and bamboo crafts from the Northeast have proven to be the most popular. "I bought a woollen jacket from UP and a cotton saree from Kerala," said Padmalaya Sahu, a college teacher. 
 
 
