Kanyakumari: In an effort that could be remembered for long, members of a local village WhatsApp group in Kanyakumari district has constructed houses for two villagers who lost their homes to cyclone Ockhi by mobilising Rs 4.5 lakh. Construction of a third house is under way and is expected to be completed in a month . Gusty winds that caused thousands of tree falls damaged more than 7,000 houses in the district on November 29 and 30. It included more than 20 houses from Madathattuvilai, near Thuckalay. “We realised that the mere Rs 5,000 (or lesser) relief from the government is not going to help these affected villagers,” said member of the group, Christo Sebastin L. It was then that the WhatsApp group named after Madathattuvilai village with around 200 members stepped into action. The members are mostly youth, who consist of students and employed, of whom a few are NRIs. They studied the background of the families and the group. The local church too decided to build houses for a few. “The church took up construction of three houses and has completed two so far. We on the other hand started our work independently. We wanted to build houses for V Anasthasi, 68, a widow who was abandoned by her sons and for S Arul, 40, a differently-abled man,” Sebastin said. Construction began as and when money started coming in and last week they completed two houses for 250sqft each. The small houses have a hall, bedroom, kitchen and a toilet. While one of them has a concrete roof the other house has a tin sheet. On Sunday, the houses were handed over to the beneficiaries after prayer. Anasthasi said that a major portion of her mud walled, tile roof, house was damaged when a giant tree fell on the house. Stating that she was lucky to survive the incident, she added that she stayed with a son for a few days till a new house was constructed. Her eyes were filled with tears of joy as she thanked the boys from her village for building her a house. On the other hand, Arul’s family of four including two little daughters were also lucky to survive the tree fall that crushed two of the three rooms in their small mud walled house. Since then, the family has been staying in the room that had not fallen apart. The family thanked the group members for their gesture.