TRICHY: With online portal for registering citizen feedback as a part of Swachh Survekshan 2018 thrown open on Thursday,   City Corporation has planned to rope in all the Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) in Trichy for recording feedback to a set of questionnaires ascertaining city’s cleanliness. There are a total of 320 resident associations in the city. The online portal to record the feedback for corporation’s cleanliness efforts is said to remain open till the   (QCI) conclude all their field inspections across the nation.

 Even as Trichy managed to fetch a place in top 10 slots for cleanest cities across the nation for the past three straight years, citizen feedback category has always been the vulnerable point for the civic body in maintaining as well as in improving their standings. 
 
 With about 35% of total 4,000 marks earmarked for citizen feedback and also with an exclusive form on the online portal, www.swachhsurvekshan2018.org, opened for recording citizen feedback,   has started roping in the RWAs to help city fetch more positive feedback.
 
 “All the RWAs are co-operating and helpful in registering their feedback on the online portal. This year, we are very hopeful about scoring good marks in citizen feedback category as we have satisfied the RWAs with our impeccable waste collection,” a senior corporation official told TOI. 
 
 Even as the date scheduled for a team of representatives from Swachh Bharat Mission to grade the cleanliness of the city is not disclosed,   said that till then they will be focusing on roping in all the RWAs to record their feedback for Swachh Survekshan 2018.
 
 Through the feedback form available online, it is said that city’s pulse would be checked by collecting response from citizens against six specific questions covering issues around general cleanliness, solid waste management and sanitation related progress made by the civic body over the year. 
 
 Official sources said that WhatsApp groups and   pages following city’s development were helpful to them in spreading the word for recording the feedback for Swachh Survekshan 2018, which is the largest survey covering about 40 crore urban population. 
 
 Besides the online platform, the urban local body has appealed common public to provide feedback on cleanliness through helplines 1969 and 1800-111-969. 
 
 
