New Delhi: The bids have been received and one contract has already been given for out for the National Highways Authority of India’s ( ) project to build the Dwarka Expressway.

 But nothing can happen on the ground because NHAI has not been handed over suitable land by either Haryana or Delhi. As a result, the highway ministry may not be able to follow through with its plan of   laying the foundation stone for the project next month.
 
 Dwarka Expressway is running more than a decade behind schedule because of a series of legal cases. It was originally conceived by the Haryana government. NHAI took over the project only in 2017.
 
 NHAI had floated bids for three out of the total four packages of this 28 km access-controlled highway connecting Delhi with Gurgaon. NHAI has awarded one package to construction major L&T and in two cases the works have not been awarded even after finalising the lowest bidders.
 
 Sources said NHAI chairman Deepak Kumar has written to Haryana chief secretary D S Dhesi saying that the authority cannot give the appointed date to L&T since the required land parcels are not available. “It’s being developed as an expressway and without getting land for the entire stretch, building small stretches won’t help,” said an official, who did not wish to be named.
 
 In his recent letter to Dhesi, NHAI chief has referred to a meeting held in last week of February where the Haryana government officials had committed to resolve the land related issues and provide the required right of way (RoW) for carrying out construction. But even after three weeks the state has not fulfilled its commitments.
 
 The commitments included removal of all structures and hindrances in Palam Vihar barring 68 structures where there is stay by High Court, confirmation to reimburse the cost of 14 hectare land acquired by NHAI in Haryana and transferring 4.25 hectares of state government land to NHAI without any cost.
 
 Though flat buyers had pinned their hopes in NHAI of fast tracking the construction of the high-speed corridor after Haryana government had handed over the stretch to the authority, work is yet to begun. It will take at least two years from the day work starts on this expressway.
 
 Meanwhile, builders, who have projects along this corridor, have been projecting that the expressway will be completed soon in their bid to exhaust their inventories.
 
 
