Anatoly Karpov,   and now  . The last named has announced plunge into chess politics/administration by declaring his candidature for the   ( ) president’s post.

 
 
 Confirming what has been discussed in chess circles for quite some time, Short told Mirror that his main agenda is to find the money of the Fide account that was frozen by United Bank Switzerland ( ) on April 30.
 
 “My biggest question right now is where is the money? Last week, the bank accounts were closed. There are millions and where is that money? This actually is a question that must be addressed to the Fide presidential board. Mr (DV) Sundar (a member of  ) is a vice-president. You can ask him. We know that it is no longer in the UBS. The money has been transferred. Why are they (Fide) not telling us. Is it in somebody’s mattress? Or is it in a private account? If it is not in a private account, then where,” Short told this paper confirming his candidature for the president’s post. The Fide election will be held in October.
 
 The account was frozen by the Swiss bank because of Fide president Kirsan Ilyumzhinov coming under US sanctions because of his alleged links in Syria. But Short said the money is being handled by the deputy president Georgios Makropoulos, who has also declared that he will contest.
 
 “We know it is no longer the responsibility of Kirsan. It is the responsibility of Makropoulos, who has taken over the financial dealings of Fide,” he said.
 
 When asked if he is really serious about his chances in the election, considering that Karpov and Kasparov had failed in their bids, Grandmaster Short, a former World Chess Championship finalist, said it is a different scenario. “(Unlike in the past) it’s a three-horse race (Kirsan, Makropoulos and Short). It is completely different dynamics and you need less votes in the first round,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Sundar said the Fide money should be in the same UBS account. “My guess is it is in the same account and it will be transferred once we open a new account,” he said.
 
 
