CHANDIGARH: A major controversy erupted in the   ( ) senate meeting on Sunday when a member said the   found guilty in two sexual harassment cases has not raped or even attempted to rape anyone.

 Professor Chaman Lal, while taking part in the discussion on the penalty to be imposed on the assistant professor, said whatever the assistant professor has done is a certain kind of misconduct, so, he should be punished proportionately to his crime.
 
 Lal said his social concern is for Dalits (the assistant professor is a Dalit), adivasis and women. “I don’t know this person at all, I have not even seen him. My concern is social and legal. Social concern is for Dalits, adivasis and women because they feel victimised. Unfortunately, on one side we have a Dalit teacher and on the other a woman student.” “There is a scope for reformation in every person, even in the worst of persons. In that sense, I proposed that a person should be given maximum chance to reform. This man is not accused of rape, he is not even accused of attempting to rape. Whatever he is accused of is a certain misconduct. These are not the kind of things that a teacher should be doing,” Lal said.
 
 Prof Ajay Ranga, another senate member, said several cases of sexual harassment are being reported in the university but this assistant professor is being targeted since he is a Scheduled Caste (SC).
 
 Senate member Pam Rajput, however, came down heavily on Lal. “Prof Chaman Lal said rape to nahi kiya (he didn’t rape). Matlab rape ho jaye fir hum candles lekar chalein (Means rape should be committed and then we hold candlelight protests). Violating the modesty of a woman is a crime. In this case we have already made a mockery of the Act. This case has been going on for the last three years, however, as per the Act, the case should have been probed and the decision taken within 90 days.”
 
 Lal later told TOI that he did use the word rape but he was trying to say that there are many variations in sexual misconduct. “The highest crime is rape, then attempt to rape and then come the lower kind like abusing and misbehaving. This is the case which falls in the verbal abuse category. For rape, you have a life sentence or 10-year jail term. For attempt to rape, you may be having a five-year sentence. For a lower category of crime, you lower the punishment. Our plea was that this man is already recommended for major penalty. In major penalty, you can either choose to demote him and give him a chance to improve himself, or you throw him out of the university. I was going for the legal procedural thing.”
 
 “My only concern is that there are three sections which are victimised, Dalits, adivasis and women. Unfortunately, a woman here has complained against a Dalit teacher. He should be punished but proportionately to his crime. His complaints are of verbal abuse. He is not a mentally sick person. Then he needs psychiatry treatment. Major penalty has three forms. We were insisting on one and the other senate members were on other. Only dispute is whether you hang him or give him life sentence, figuratively speaking,” Lal said.
 
 
 
