Jaipur: Acting on the directions of medical and health minister Kali Charan Saraf who represents Malviya Nagar, the Jaipur Development Authority ( ) on Wednesday carried out a massive drive near Shatkar Shopping Centre to widen the road. 

 To widen the Shivanand Marg up to 80 feet, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) demolished 25 structures on Wednesday. These structures include shops, houses and a garage. 
 
 According to sources, Saraf has asked urban development and housing minister Srichand Kriplani to remove the structures to widen the road. Following this, the JDA officiala were directed by the UDH minister to take widening work on priority.
 
 “Notices were issued to the owners. The drive was carried out after these structures were not removed voluntarily,” said a JDA official. 
 
 Sources in the department said, there are many structures also which are hampering the road widening, however, work is not taken up due to interference of the local MLA. “On Ajmer Road, the JDA has to widen the 400 metre stretch between Sushilpura Puliya and Cremation ground. Efforts are been made to widen the road for past three month. However, the work is delayed as MLA is adamant not to carry out drive before election.”
 
 With land acquisition posing a major problem, JDA is also struggling to construct the missing stretches. Last year, the civic body decided to work on 14 stretches in the first phase to interlink all roads in various zones. Recently, officials were directed to prepare a proposal for this. However, till date, no groundwork has been done and the project has been taken up again,
 
 A senior official affirmed, “Earlier, the process of connecting the links started and land acquisition was done. But the authorities faced many hurdles while taking possession. So, construction in many areas never began.”
 
 Explaining some of these problems a JDA source said, “Due to many large houses and bungalows constructed on these links, the task of acquiring them has become a major roadblock. Some of the houses are even stuck in litigation."
 
 The source added, "JDA also faces the problem of rehabilitating the displaced residents and compensating them duly. A decision in this regard will be taken only after the state government's approval.”
 
 
