NEW DELHI:   Teachers’ Association ( ) has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the   of the university as it would pave the way for privatisation of education.

 In the letter, sent as part of an   petition, DUTA president Rajib Ray said the education sector required an increase in funding from the government, and not a cut. The petition, till Saturday evening, had garnered over 16,000 signatures.
 
 In the letter, Ray said the recent pronouncements by the government “reveals the intention to slash public-funding, thereby paving the way for privatisation and commercialisation of education.” He criticised the order of the 70:30 funding formula where the institutions are expected to generate at least 30% of additional expenses on revision of salaries due to the 7th Pay revision. He also criticised the shift from grants to loan-based funding for infrastructure and the alleged push to introduce self-financing courses through the autonomous college scheme.
 
 This scheme, he said, would raise the cost of education and bring down quality. “The slash in public expenditure on higher education is evident across the spectrum of IITs, IIMs, NITs, central and state universities. The CSIR too, has already asked research labs to generate their own resources. Undoubtedly, this will not be beneficial for the future of science and research in the country,” Ray wrote. 
 
 “Access to good quality higher education is a crucial precondition for positive social change and inclusive development. If the government promotes privatisation and commercialisation in higher education, it will be turning a blind eye to the enormous aspiration of the common and poor people to access higher education,” Ray said.
 
 The JNU protesters had also raised concerns over the danger of rising cost of higher education and its impact on women, socially and economically marginalised and differently-abled students.
 
 DU students have lent their support to the cause and have been attending DUTA protests. They have also called for a ‘People’s March’ to the Parliament on March 28 against the Centre’s autonomy decision.
 
 
