They say dance like no one’s watching. But you can’t follow that if you want to make a career in dancing. Dancers, especially those participating in dance reality shows, follow the motto ‘joh dikhta hai, woh bikta hai’. These shows have bombarded the small screen with umpteen number of dancing talents. Unlike other reality shows, where participants often return to the state of anonymity after momentary fame, most participants of dance reality shows have managed to carve a niche for themselves. On International Dance Day, we talk to some of the former contestants for whom participating in a dance reality show proved to be a game changer.

 
 
 One of the talented Mohan sisters, Shakti won the second season of  , which paved the path for her successful career in dancing. Like elder sister Neeti, who is a playback singer, Shakti climbed the success ladder without having a godfather in the industry and by just showcasing her talent in the dance reality show. She says, “It changed my life completely. I just started out dancing and had no clue about what to do next. Right from getting a chance to showcase my talent in front of the world to judging reality shows, everything happened because I got a platform. After the show got over, I started getting offers, not just for dancing but acting as well. I did my first show, 'Dil Dosti Dance', and then participated in 'Jhalak Dikhla Ja' as a choreographer as well as a celebrity. I also appeared in a few dance numbers in Bollywood films and then got opportunity to judge 'Dance Plus' and 'Dance Singapore Dance'. Had it not been for dance reality shows, I think it would have taken me longer to reach where I am now and the journey would have been more difficult.” 
 The dancing star, who last appeared on 'Dance Plus 3' as a mentor, believes that more than skill and technique, patience and hard work help in achieving big. She adds, “It seems glamorous from outside, but it requires continuous hard work and perseverance. Dance reality shows are a great platform to show your talent to the world, but one needs to work really hard to continue with the popularity and meet the expectations.”
 
  
   
 
 
 
 Though the king of slow motion Raghav Juyal couldn’t win the show (Dance India Dance), he managed to create a spot for himself with his comic timing and dancing style. He says, “Sitting at my home in Dehradun, I used to dream of becoming a performer. Back then, YouTube hadn’t emerged as a platform to exhibit your talent yet, and when I got to know about the show, I decided to give it a try. DID gave me a chance to be judged only on the basis of my talent.” Raghav, who is now a TV presenter and hosts Dance Plus, adds, “After the show, I did a film called 'Sonali Cable', which ended up being a flop, but helped me learn a lot. I did 'ABCD 2' with with   sir and two of my films, 'Nawabzaade' and 'Mayur', will release soon. Apart from acting, I also got an offer to be a mentor on Dance Plus, but I cannot sit and tell contestants what went right or wrong, so I refused the offer. But then they asked if I want to host the show, and I thought why not?”
 
  
   
 
 
 
 He participated in 'DID Li’l Masters' as a cute 13-year-old and came out a winner. After participating in the show, there has been no looking back for Faisal Khan, who is now an actor as well. He says, “My life flipped after winning that show. I bought a house for my family, which is a huge thing for me. It would have been very difficult for me to pursue this career had I not participated in the show. Agar yeh show nahi hota toh shayad main dance main aage nahi badh pata. I would have gone into academics to make my parents proud. Because of the show, I got recognition. Since then, I have participated in several other dance reality shows, acted in many TV shows and also got a show of my own, 'Bharat Ka Veer Putra –  '. Now I am fully into acting. I have done a Marathi film, 'Prem Kahani', which has been released and another Gujrati film is at its initial stage.”
 
  
    with Abigail Pande
 
 
 
 Unlike many of his co-contestants in dance reality shows, Sanam Johar didn’t venture into acting until recently, when he appeared on a TV show with girlfriend Abigail Pande. He says, “Participating in a dance reality show helped me become a better person. I not only honed my skills but also learnt other skills required in this field. Right after the show, I started receiving acting offers. My mother is very happy to see me achieve my dreams.” Sanam not only got a successful career but also met the love of his life, Abigail Pande, after participating in the show. Together, they participated in the last season of ' '. He adds, “After my first dance reality show, I got many offers for acting in TV shows and a few to judge events. But I was more inclined towards dancing and therefore didn’t take up acting then. Just to improve myself as a dancer and choreographer, I participated in many seasons of 'Jhalak Dikhla Ja' and choreographed celebs.”
 
  
   
 
 
 
 Salman Yusuff Khan, who was the winner of the first season of 'Dance India Dance', is a successful choreographer now. After winning the show, Salman appeared in a song in Salman Khan-starrer 'Wanted' and 'Raktra Charitra'. He has also acted in films like 'ABCD' and 'Love You Family'. Like other reality shows stars, this handsome hunk also gives the credit of his success to dance reality shows. He says, “I came from Bangalore and knew nothing about the industry. I got to learn many things, got to meet people and establish connections through the shows. It might seem like I had it easy after winning the show, but I have had my share of struggles. I was in a contract with the channel and couldn’t explore other avenues for two years. The channel was not doing anything substantial for me at that time and I was sitting idle. I was neither a choreographer nor an actor, so couldn’t do anything else. I assisted Remo sir and learnt about camera angles and the differences between choreographing for reality shows and movies.”
  
 
 
