Mumbai: Markets regulator   said on Thursday that   investors who participate in initial public offers (IPOs) and are eligible to receive shares, should be compensated monetarily if merchant bankers fail to allot shares to them. In addition, the merchant bankers to the offers will also need to pay an interest of 15% to those investors if the bankers fail to resolve their grievance within 15 days.

 Putting in place a framework to compensate retail investors who fail to get securities in an  , Sebi said there should be a uniform policy for calculation of minimum compensation payable to investors.
 
 While calculating minimum compensation, several factors need to be taken into account — like opportunity loss suffered by the investor due to non-allotment of shares, number of times the   was oversubscribed in the relevant category, probability of allotment, and listing gains (if any) on the day of listing. “It is also proposed that in case of issues which are subscribed between 90-100% — that is non-oversubscribed issues — the applicants would be compensated for all the shares which they would have been allotted,” Sebi noted. However, no compensation would be payable to the applicant in case the listing price is below the issue price, it said in a circular, which would come into force with immediate effect.
 
 While the process of Applications Supported By Block Amount ( ) has resulted in almost complete elimination of complaints pertaining to refunds, Sebi said there have been instances where IPO applicants have failed to get allotment of specified securities and in the process have suffered an opportunity loss due to failure on part of bankers to process the applications even when they have been submitted within time.
 
 Other factors are — failure on part of the Self-Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) to make bids in the concerned exchange system even after the amount has been blocked in the investors’ bank account and any other failures on part of an SCSB which has resulted in the rejection of the application form. “Any applicant whose application has not been considered for allotment, due to failure on the part of the SCSB, shall have the option to seek redressal of the same within three months of the listing date with the concerned SCSB.
 
 “On receipt of such application, the SCSB would be required to resolve the same within 15 days, failing which it would have to pay interest at the rate of 15% per annum for any delay beyond the said period of 15 days.,” Sebi noted. In case bankers fail to redress such grievances within the stipulated time, additionally “Sebi may initiate action as deemed fit”.
 
 The regulator has asked bankers to resolve all pending issues related to non-allotment of specified securities whether on the regulator’s complaint redressal system — SCORES portal — or otherwise.
 
 
