CHENNAI: Nine seasons, seven finals and three titles - CSK can easily be rechristened Consistent Super Kings. The consistency factor stems from the team management's belief in sticking to the tried-and-tested formula as they made their way back to the tournament after a two-year hiatus. Their first move was to retain the talismanic MS  ,   and   ahead of the auctions earlier this year.

 
 
 
 
 Post the auctions, many questioned the franchise's logic of investing in players who were thought to be well past their prime. Once the tournament kicked off, the team hit a bump when Cauvery protests forced them to shift base from their den - Chepauk - to the MCA Stadium in Pune. The team was built to suit conditions in Chennai but they only played one game here. 
 
 Despite the roadblock, CSK were able to regroup quickly and make swift changes to their game plans. Considering that the wicket in Pune aided the quicks, CSK's attack became more seamer-oriented. One saw the likes of  , Ngidi Lungi, Shardul Thakur doing the bulk of the bowling with the experienced   rolling his arm towards the later stages in the innings. "The strong spin line-up we possessed had to be on the sidelines. It was something which wasn't in our control but we had to make the move," said Fleming on Monday.
 
 The team returned to the city in the afternoon and by the time Dhoni & Co reached the team hotel, there were a few hundred people ready to greet the heroes. The players, after a bit of rest, headed straight to a party organized by the franchise owners.
 
 
 
 
 Not often do professionals stay back for a day to attend a party, but then, this is CSK. The players, time and again, insist that it's the best franchise to play for, because there's hardly any owner interference when it comes to game strategy. Dhoni and Fleming are the bosses and even though they take inputs from the likes of CEO Kasi Viswanathan and the other members who follow the developments in the game, at the end of the day, it's the captain's call.
 
 That was precisely the reason why   and Deepak Chahar were picked up from the auctions. While Dhoni has always appreciated Rayudu's gutsy cricket, Chahar played for   last year and both the captain and the coach felt the duo could do the job. "CSK is a meticulously planned side and we just go more by our gut feel on a particular player. We invest a lot on people. We are not a stats driven (team) but people driven," said Fleming.
 
 And then of course, there's Dhoni himself. While the captain takes a lot of pride playing for this team and considers Chennai as his second home, the management has complete faith in him. And Dhoni keeps delivering, both as a batsman and a captain. "Dhoni has a strong effect and influence on the players who play in the side. He gives players the belief and as team management we provide roles to each of the players," Fleming said. 
 
 While the franchise has successfully overcome the odds this season, Fleming and Dhoni will already have one eye on retaining the crown next season. Fleming, though, looked to play it down for the time being. "It's still 12 months away and we are in the euphoria of last night's win. But we hope that the senior players that we have taken stay professionals and look after their fitness through the year," the coach explained the mind-set of the 2018 champions.
 
