Singer   talks about her career, independent music and more. Excerpts: 

 
 Last year was a roller coaster for me. I went on my first US tour with  , I sang in Gujarati, Marathi and also in Hindi. I also won a the Filmfare Award for the first time in Malayalam and Marathi, which was special. I got three Nandi Awards in a row, and also received a Tamil Nadu State Award. So, yes, awards were special. But I also had my low days.
 
 
 
 I don’t think we are running a race. We, as artistes, bring different things to the table. There will always be space for someone with a certain skill set. It doesn’t matter how many people come and go, everyone will have their slice from the pie.
 
 
 
 Right now that works as a promotional thing for a singer. But if I go about making independent songs, I would end up spending a lot of money in it. Sometimes, it is daunting because monetising is the biggest problem. I am unable to comment on its future, but it’s a good thing because people have found another avenue to get into playback singing. In this country, for many singers, the ultimate goal is to become a playback singer. They don’t think of being an independent artiste or being a stage performer. After reality shows, this is works as a great platform for singers. People have been able to grow their brand and that is nice.
 
 
 
 Even now people remind me of songs like Sandhipoma and people way younger to me say that their favourite song is Deivam Thantha Poove. And songs like  , which released in 2006, still has the craze. I think it is in the strength of the composition that decides the shelf life of songs.   and   sir have sung 30,000-plus songs. From that you can pick 800-1000 songs and say that it is their biggest hits across different languages. So, the ratio is 
 . For me, if I have sung 1,000 songs, maybe 100 songs would have reached the people. A lot of people have come up to me and said ‘I didn’t know you sang that’. Even my husband didn’t know that I sang Chinama Chilukama. People have come up to me and said Sara Sara Saara Kathu was sung by  . Though I have received awards for that and have spoken about that song, people have their own perception. I don’t think the shelf life has reduced. Back in the day, there were only radios that used play songs and people listened to a song maybe once or twice in a week. Now, it is like information overload. If someone likes a song, they listen to it multiple times a day. They would quickly move on to the next song when their interest dies. I think the concept of shelf life is relative because we are now exposed to the content a lot more compared to the previous era.
 
 
 
 Composing itself is a different process. I don’t think a patch work or use of a tool is going to change anything. The tool that is available to Anirudh is available to anybody. Everyone knows what is available in the market. There is something about Harris sir’s songs, Rahman sir’s songs and Raja sir’s songs. Everybody gains from the advancement of technology and things become easier, that’s what it is and you can’t say the quality has gone down.
 
 
 
 Despite having a dream debut, I also had people commenting that I am not a good singer. They said my songs would become a flop. But after Sahana, things got better. The first 4-5 years were crucial. Despite having a dream debut and singing songs like Sandhipoma, Oru Thadavai Solvaya, work was very rare and hard to come by.
 
 
 
 I never planned this. In fact, this was something I resisted. When I was singing for Sillunu Oru Kaadhal in Rahman sir’s studio, they were looking for a voice artiste and he wanted me to give it a try. That’s how it all began. Until then, people used to say that singers shouldn’t use their voice for anything other than singing, and that singers should be dignified and shouldn’t be a performer. When I started voice acting, a lot of people said what I was making a mistake. But SPB sir had done it all — he was a voice actor, singer, producer and director.   changed things for me not just in Tamil, but in Telugu, too. I was surprised with people’s response. So many people said that they watched the film again for my voice and it certainly gave me a different set of fans. I think I have done about 80 films now. And honestly, I don’t actively solicit dubbing work. I have probably turned down opportunities more than taking them because it is not my mainstay. As long as   is around, I’ll do. And if there is anything special, I’ll do it. But they are one of the most underpaid talents in our industry... most of the artistes don’t get paid for the amount of effort and time they put into a film. But I am extremely happy that I got the opportunity to explore something new and I understood so many things about making a film. I also got to know dubbing artistes can actually make or break a film and realised how significant it is.
 
 
 
 It’s an insult if I do that. You can easily figure out if someone is singing live or doing lip sync. I will never do that because I won’t be able to remember the order of songs to follow. I am an extempore artiste and anybody who has trained in classical singing wouldn’t want to lip sync. It makes sense to lip sync when there is a dance performance and there are about 6-7 artistes coming and going on stage. But I don’t know. I have sung for Rahman sir, Harris sir and we have sung live. 
 
 
 
 Deivam Thantha Poove from Kannathil Muthamittal was very special. Tera Bina and Titli for having turned things over in Hindi. Compositions I was grateful that I got to sing were Idhayam from Kochadaiiyaan and Sara Sara Saara Kathu. These are few of the songs that are on top of my head. 
 
  
 
 
 
