PUNE: A protest by   and   on Monday is likely to disrupt commute for thousands of people relying on the app-based services.

 The one-day strike is being organised to protest what drivers have described as “faulty policies” by Ola and Uber. Taxis in other cities, including Mumbai, are expected to participate.
 
 
 Guru Katti, president of the  , told TOI the taxi drivers who were plying their own vehicles as Ola or Uber cabs were facing “many problems”. “We are supporting this strike, which has been called by the   (MNS). On Monday, we don’t expect to see Ola or Uber cabs plying in Pune. As per our estimates, this city has nearly 5,000 Ola or Uber taxis. Almost all of them will be off the roads on Monday,” he said.
 
 However, according to Pune’s regional transport office (RTO), there could be as many as 7,000 to 8,000 app-based cabs plying in the city.
  
  
 Drivers claim there has been a dip in promised pay. “Both firms had promised partner drivers monthly incomes of Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh. Believing that commitment, several people bought cars on loans and started using them as cabs for the two firms. But business has not even been near the promised amount,” Katti said.
 
 He added that fuel prices and a drop in the per-kilometre fare were causing more problems. “Incomes currently hover around Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 per month. This, coupled with rising fuel prices, have left drivers worried. Many are unable to even pay the monthly installments for the loans on their cabs. We are not demanding that salaries match the promised Rs 1 lakh a month. All we are asking for is decent pay. Also, amid the rivalry between Ola and Uber, the fare per kilometre has dropped from Rs 10 to Rs 6. The cut left customers happy, but drivers are in a financial distress,” Katti said.
 
 There were also allegations made against the way the two companies were dispatching drivers. “The companies themselves own some of the cabs. They are being favoured during dispatch,” Arun Gadge, a cab driver, said. “For instance, if a person books a cab and even if I’m just five minutes from the spot, the booking will still go to the person driving the car owned by either of the two companies — even if he is further away from me. Both companies must ensure all drivers are treated equally,” Gadge told TOI.
 
 A statement by Ola said cops in Mumbai had taken “necessary steps” to ensure commuter safety. “We have been informed by   that they have taken all necessary steps to ensure safety of commuters during their cab rides in the city,” the statement read.
 
 Sources said providing a statement that was Punecentric was “difficult”.
 
 “The strike has been called by a third party and not by drivers or any association of drivers. It has also originated in Mumbai. So, giving a Punecentric statement is difficult,” an official said.
 
 Uber, meanwhile, did not offer any comment.
 
