NEW DELHI: The   ( ), cricket’s world governing body, has started a drive to build its ‘independent identity’. In its update on the global strategy for cricket, the council’s Strategy Working Group ( ) has cited over-reliance on India as its biggest weakness in in its effort to make cricket a global game.

 
 
 The SWG has also pointed out that ICC isn’t exclusively responsible for regulation of world cricket as the game is governed by laws formulated by the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC).
 
 The SWOT analysis in the report, a copy of which is with TOI, says that cricket is not a truly global sport because of heavy dependence on revenues and fans from India. It also asserts that there is lack of aggressive expansion/growth strategy to counter over-reliance on India.
 
 The report is set to be discussed at a meeting of the ICC working group and the Indian cricket board (BCCI) officials in New Delhi on Thursday. Interestingly,   CEO   is a part of the SWG which has pointed out high disparity in distribution of world cricket’s income along with lack of financial sustainability of leading members.
 
 BCCI got into a heated negotiation with ICC over revenues last year. And if the report is anything to go by, then the ICC is looking at further cutting BCCI’s share from its income to sustain other members. “There is an attempt to cut BCCI to size. How can a body which generates maximum revenue be asked to let go of what it deserves? The report hasn’t been backed up by numbers,” a senior BCCI official told TOI. It is learnt that board members are planning a meeting to counter ICC’s stance.
 
 The report has mentioned that there is a lack of engagement by other communities (non-south Asian, Caribbean) in non-traditional ‘growth’ markets. The report also states that competitive tension in broadcast markets is diminishing and the sport is seeing uncontrolled private investments by “commercial operators whose interests are aligned with short-term financial gain”. It can be recalled that Star has bagged mega deals in Indian cricket this year.
 
 ICC has also noted Anglocentric norms as one of its weaknesses. “The Spirit of Cricket is often seen as a fundamental part of the sport’s attraction but does not always translate identically in different cricketing cultures. Furthermore, the regulation of the international game is exclusively in English and decisionmaking is undertaken in English,” the report stated.
 
 Interestingly, BCCI and the English and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) and Cricket Australia (CA) had formed the Big Three in world cricket when it came to revenue sharing. That model was later abandoned.
 
 Sources said ICC is clearly driven to be a global sport and hence it has identified the reliance on a small pool of cricket players to drive audiences and revenues as a hindrance. It also talks about the need for the game to be included in multisport events.
 
 According to the report, the game is hampered by the lack of common vision/unity on key areas and context/ structure to international cricket scheduling.
 
 Torn between Tests and shorter formats
 
 While the ICC is striving to sustain Test cricket, it is still uncertain about short-format leagues. Interestingly, the report has listed events like T10, a ten-over event, as one of its threats but it has also accepted that the format is as an opportunity to popularize the game.
 
 The report also cited the time taken to complete a game and the short attention span to be a hindrance.
 
 
