MUMBAI: Investigators are trying to piece together what went wrong at the   birthday party that led to the   of   (21). 

 The family members of some of the youngsters who have been detained said most guests at the party, held at a bungalow, were high on liquor or drugs; one was found slung on a gate by a passerby. 
 
 Twelve youngsters have been detained by the police so far, largely from affluent families. Among them are the birthday girl, whose father is a Marathi movie producer, and another teenage girl whom Atharva had accompanied to the party. The parents of the detainees drove down to Aarey police station in high-end cars, including a  , and camped there throughout Thursday. 
 
 The police say a fight occurred at the party; CCTV footage shows Atharva running out. 
  
  
 “Locals now recollect spotting him by the lake (where his body was found),” said an officer. 
 
 Atharva, whose father is with the economic offences wing of the police, had stayed over at bungalow No. 212 on Monday night, like most of the others. The bungalow is in a gated community overlooking the hotel  . There is a single entrance to the complex adjacent to the   Estate sales office. There are two other gates, which are boarded up. An officer said the police are not sure how Atharva reached the lake which is a half km from the complex’s main gate. 
 
 A police team, along with sniffer dogs, visited the spot on Thursday. Parents said the police picked up the youngsters on Wednesday. 
 
 “My nephew told me guests at the party were high. Some were getting intimate,” said the relative of one. “My nephew had an argument and there was some jostling. But it was sorted soon after and he returned home in an auto the next morning. He is scheduled to fly to   on Friday, but the police aren't letting him go. Our lawyer visited the police station and gave them a notice for illegal detention (police detention exceeding 24 hours) on Thursday.” 
 
 Not everyone at the party knew Atharva. One of those who attended the party had injured his knuckles; his parents claimed he had banged his hands against the wall repeatedly, but the police weren't convinced of this as the reason. 
 
 Locals say the bungalows at Royal Palms are regularly rented out for parties for around Rs 30,000 per night. Loud music was heard from bungalow No. 212 on Monday night. Its caretaker and staff have been detained for questioning.
 
