THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala, which has achieved a neonatal mortality rate (NMR) of 6 per 1,000 live births, is maintaining the figure for the past three years. However, in the light of a recently-released UNICEF report that puts India with an NMR of 25 at 31st position among 184 countries, UNICEF Kerala–Tamil Nadu region chief Job   said that newborn deaths in Kerala can be reduced further through proper breastfeeding practices and by treating congenital heart disease (CHD) in newborns.

 Focussing on the urgent need to end new born deaths, UNICEF on Tuesday launched ‘Every Child Alive’, a worldwide campaign to end death of newborns in the first month. The UNICEF report says that every year 26 lakh babies die before turning one month old across the world and another 26 lakh are stillborn. More than 80% of the newborns die due to complications during birth or infections.
 
 
  
 Japan with NMR of 0.9 deaths per 1,000 live births has been ranked as the world’s safest country for a baby to be born, while Pakistan is the riskiest country with NMR of 46. Kerala’s NMR of 6 is better than Argentina, which has an NMR of 6.2 and ranked at 120. Higher position indicates less newborn death rate.
 
 “The rate would come down by promoting initial breastfeeding of babies within one hour and exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months and improving the quality of delivery care. The Hridyam project of the Kerala government to treat CHD is likely to further reduce the NMR in the state,” Zachariah said.
 
 Kerala state commission for protection of child rights chairperson Shobha Koshy said, “ Improper breastfeeding and malnutrition also lead to newborn deaths, which is preventable through proper awareness, timely nutrition and health care”.
 
 “About 24% of the children with CHD can be saved through timely surgical intervention. The facility offered in Thiruvananthapuram initially has been extended to two more hospitals, at   and Kozhikode. It has also ensured tie-up with four private hospitals for CHD treatment,” Zachariah said.
 
 Earlier, health minister   said that by 2020 around 8 lakh surgeries would be conducted for children with CHD.
 
