GURUGRAM:  , having failed to get relief from Punjab and Haryana high court, is now planning to approach Supreme Court to vacate the stay over rehabilitation of oustees of  , in order to complete work on the road.

 In March 2017, the high court had stayed the allotment of alternative plots to a group of oustees who had general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA) for the land on which they had built houses. The stay stopped work on the expressway, along which thousands of people have invested in residential and commercial projects. Since then, completing work on the expressway has emerged as a major challenge for state agencies.
 
 The acquisition of land for the expressway was challenged before Punjab and Haryana high court in 2008, by residents of New Palam Vihar whose houses fall in the alignment of the road. After years of litigation, the court, in May 2015, suggested settlement with the petitioner, according to which, Huda would give alternative plots to all those who would lose their houses.
 
 As per the   direction, Huda had to complete the allotment of alternative plots to oustees by March 2016, but it failed to meet the deadline. In the meantime, Huda acquired land in sectors 110A and 37C to rehabilitate oustees. More than 568 oustees — from Chauma, New Palam Vihar, Kherki Daula, etc — applied for alternative plots under the final terms of settlement (FTS). 
 
 Meanwhile, Huda had identified only 232 oustees as eligible for rehabilitation and, between May-September 2016, handed over allotment letters to 148 of them in Sector 110A and Sector 37C. Few months later,   of Sector 110A filed a petition before the HC, challenging the allotment of plots to oustees with GPA/SPA. Thereafter, in March 2017, HC stayed the allotment of alternative plots to GPA and SPA holders, putting a brake on work on the road. After a series of hearings, the matter was referred to a large bench, but Huda failed to get any relief.
 
 “We’re now planning to approach the SC, as delay in vacation of stay has stalled the project. The completion of the road is crucial,” said a senior Huda official, adding they hope the apex court will consider their submission that completion of the road will benefit a large number of people.
 
 The official said possession of land for the road is to be given to NHAI so they can start work on its elevated portion. “The main issue now is allotment of alternative plots to GPA and SPA holders, removal of structures coming in the road’s alignment, and demarcation of land in New Palam Vihar for the removal of encroachments,” said the official.
 
 Some oustees from Kherki Daula could not be given possession of alternative plots due to variation in plot sizes and existence of a high tension tower on a plot. “A proposal for giving alternative plots to such oustees has been sent to the chief administrator for approval,” said the official.
 
 He said their legal department was asked to file an appeal before the SC against the HC stay order, as well as permission to remove residential structures of oustees who have got alternative plots. 
 
 
