MUMBAI: A resident of a Bandra building, Raju Kanal, has been accused of misleading his housing society to surrender a portion of its property to the  , and claim FSI benefits for himself. 

 Kanal, a former secretary of Happy Home society, had claimed that the BMC needed the plot for road widening. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Kanal’s neighbours claimed that that BMC sanctioned additional floor space index (FSI) to the society in the 90s, which he surreptitiously cornered to illegally build over an open terrace adjoining his own flat. The matter came to light only in 2015, when the society wanted to redevelop its building.
 
 The housing unit of the economic offences wing (EOW) recently registered an FIR against Kanal, and architect Jaikishan Vatnani for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy.
 
 Police said the Kanal and Vatnani convinced the society that the BMC would take over about 95 sq m of the building’s compound for road widening. However, Kanal allegedly concealed the fact that the corporation would grant extra development space for the building in return and, without the knowledge of his neighbours, he used the extra FSI to extend the area of his own flat. 
 
 Kanal rubbished the allegation and said he had not done anything “illegal’’ and society members were trying to frame him. “In 1974, when my father bought this place, the flat was covered with asbestos sheets, for which BMC had sent us a notice. We then filed a suit before the Bombay city civil court challenging the action,” said Kanal. 
 
 He said he eventually won the case and the covered terrace was declared as “existing prior to 1964” for which he paid “assessment charges”. “Individual members and the society were aware that it was getting 650 sq ft as additional FSI and we paid a sum of Rs 24,430 to the society for it,” said Kanal.
 
 Happy Home housing society has 23 flats and is located on Saint Martin’s Road in Bandra west. 
 
 Last week, the EOW, along with the Bandra police, carried out a search of Kanal’s apartment and Vatnani’s office and claimed to have recovered some documents pertaining to the case. 
 
 Police said Kanal is accused of submitting forged documents and using the FSI of the ‘setback scheme’ for his personal gain and causing the society a loss of Rs 9 crore.
 
 Since Kanal had failed to hand over the society’s records in spite of the deputy registrar’s order, the society obtained the building file and plans from the BMC under the Right to Information Act.
 
 Vinay Madnani, managing committee member, said a study of the file made it evident that the ‘setback area’ had been fraudulently utilized by Kanal for personal gain, all under the pretext of constructing a lift for personal use.
 
 “Kanal induced the society to demolish the compound wall to hand over the setback area and a new wall was constructed at the society’s expense, all for his personal gain and benefit,” said Madani.
 
 “Of the FSI of 95 sq m generated, which belonged to the society, almost 40 sq m was allegedly utilized by Kanal to regularize the unauthorized enclosure on the third floor terrace, adjacent to his flat and the balance 55 sq m was proposed for an additional flat on the common terrace level of the society, which he did not construct as his fraud would then have been very obvious,” said secretary Geeta Nayak.
 
 Sachin Patil, investigating officer of the EOW’s housing unit, said, “Further action is in the works. We are in the process of recording the statements of Kanal and Vatnani. Despite repeated efforts, Vatnani could not be contacted.
 
 Kanal rebutted the allegations saying, “Whatever we have submitted has been done through our architect and through legal procedure. I say that the FIR is a fabricated one and the society members are trying to frame us. Some have a vested interest and they are appointing a consultant for the redevelopment project for their personal benefit.” 
 
 
