LUDHIANA: Remembering the contributions of nine firefighters, who died in the recent fire and factory collapse incident near   in Mushtaqganj, the Ludhiana municipal corporation has decided to construct a memorial in their memory.

 At this memorial, tributes will be paid to the firefighters on every April 14, which is observed as National Fire Services Day.
 
 The technical advisory committee of the MC is expected to give its nod to this proposal in the upcoming meeting.
 
 The officials have proposed to construct this memorial in Mini Rose Garden in   which is near to the incident site. The firefighters had died in the incident on November 20 that had left the department in shock.
 
 The officials, including superintending engineers   and   along with assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh, have prepared this proposal.
 
 The officials said as people might forget about the incident and tragic deaths of these fire fighters, they wanted to give due honour to these nine bravehearts through this memorial. It will be a simple memorial with a wall painted with graffiti or some message related to the fire brigade.
 
 The officials have proposed a public park for the memorial as they won’t require extra manpower to keep it neat and clean. Moreover, people who will visit the park will also get to see this memorial and acknowledge the role of firefighters.
 
 Superintending engineer of building and road department Pawan Sharma said they have discussed the idea with the MC Commissioner who has given in principal approval for the same, but final approval will come when they will put it in the technical advisory committee.
 
 MC Commissioner   said that they want to do something to pay homage to the firefighters who lost their lives in the incident. This memorial will be based on a very simple theme. He said instead of installing the statues in the chowks or anywhere else, the memorial wall is better option.
 
 
 
 
 Kin of nine firefighters are still waiting to get compensation and job. Earlier, the MC officials were waiting for the declaration of three missing firemen dead and now when the administration has declared them dead, the civic officials are waiting for the release of ex gratia amount through state government. The state government had announced Rs 10 lakh compensation for the families of firemen out of which Rs 5 lakh was to come through government and Rs 5 lakh was supposed to be given by MC. The MC officials said some of the employees have given their one day salary for the families.
 
 MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh said that money has been released by the government and it has reached the treasury of district administration, but it hasn’t been transferred to MC so far. He said they will organize a small function at the MC office where they will hand over the compensation amount along with appointment letters to the family members of nine firemen.
 
 
