BENGALURU: Hulimavu police in southeast Bengaluru have refused to register a case in an incident of alleged molestation, insisting that the woman who was attacked personally appear before them. The case appears open and shut as the woman’s employer has provided   footage of the incident to buttress the complaint. Yet, the police have refused to act. 

 The woman, who was in charge of caring for two pet dogs belonging to Dr  , an industrialist in Basavapura, Bannerghatta Road, was on duty when she was allegedly molested on the night of January 10.
 
 As soon as the woman raised the alarm, Kota’s employees called the police control room. A written complaint was filed with the Hulimavu police the next day. But the police refused to register an FIR. Police say they had tried getting in touch with the victim, but since she wasn’t available at Kota’s residence they could not register a case. However, police top brass says a case can be registered on the basis of the CCTV footage alone. Kota has now petitioned the police to register the complaint.
 
 In his petition, Kota identifies the pervert as a staff of a company whose premises adjoins Kota’s residence in Basavapura. Kota says the man entered his premises at 9.54 pm by scaling the compound wall. He then accosted the woman, verbally abused her, touched her inappropriately and later assaulted her. 
 
 “I was not in Bengaluru the day the incident took place,” Kota states. “The woman was on the premises to take care for our two pet dogs. Along with her, there were two male staff members as well. They called the police control room that night and sought help. A formal complaint was lodged with the Hulimavu police station by one of our company staffers the next day.”
 
 Kota says he has not received any intimation suggesting an FIR had been filed. “I retrieved data from our CCTV cameras, analyzed the footage and summarized the incident in photographs,” Kota said. “I provided this along with this letter (petition). It is abundantly clear that the miscreant verbally abused and molested the victim.”
 
 Kota has requested police to register a case under   sections 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 354 (sexual harassment) and 441 (criminal trespass) against the pervert.
 
 Hulimavu police admitted that they have not registered an FIR. They say police who went to the spot to record statement of the woman were told that she is not available. “We have asked Kota to bring the victim to the station. We will register a case if she complains about the incident,” Hulimavu police inspector Sanjeevkumar J Mahajan said.
 
 CCTV evidence enough: DCP
 
 However, MB Boralingaiah, deputy commissioner of police (southeast division), insisted that there is no need for the woman to appear personally for an FIR to be registered since there is CCTV proof of the incident. “I wasn’t aware of the incident,” Boralingaiah said. “I will look into it and get an FIR registered if there is proof like CCTV footage to prove the allegations.”
 
 
