The last time around in 2013, just about half of Bengaluru got inked. Only 52.8% of Bengaluru Urban voted, which in itself was an improvement over 2008. While that is nothing to crow about, all signs this time are that urban Bengaluru will show up with gusto today to be counted.

 Ever since the #SteelFlyoverBeda protest of the Citizens for Bengaluru (CFB), and its resultant cancellation, civic and social activism in Bengaluru has become mainstream. While the CFB released the grassroots people’s manifesto in December 2017, 20 other manifestos have been subsequently formulated by numerous locality, RWA, civic and social groups, including CIVIC, Whitefield Rising, Bangalore Apartments Federation, Langford Town Civic Action, and runners and cyclists! It is history in the making that citizens are setting the agenda for Namma Bengaluru, and socializing it with their MLA candidates and party manifesto committees. This is both the result, and itself a cause for tremendous voter enthusiasm this time.
 
 Localities, RWAs, apartments and other aggregates have held ‘Meet Your Candidates’ and ‘Candidate Debates’ for their constituencies. Again, for the first time on such a scale, groups like Malleswaram Swabhimana, I Change Indiranagar, Whitefield Rising, Bangalore Apartments Federation and Langford Town Civic Action have all held candidate interviews and debates, putting their aspirants to the test of meeting voter expectations. This is a loud and clear signal of enthusiasm about the election.
 
 This is the first WhatsApp election. From political parties and candidates to the Election Commission and civic groups, everyone is spreading their messages of candidates and booths through WhatsApp. This is simply an election information revolution, as sharing across and between voters was never simpler. Indeed, the challenge is with managing the deluge of information and enthusiasm. Everyone has received tens of messages about voting tomorrow, plus booth and other data made seamlessly accessible via mobile apps of parties, the Election Commission and numerous public-minded NGOs. Add to that, WhatsApp posters announcing rewards of filter kaapi, tiffin and more, for voting.
 
 While all these are positive signs, voters’ lists are notorious for errors and there is always a disclaimer that the crowds at the hustings may not all get to be inked.
 
 (The writer Tara Krishnaswamy is an urban activist with Citizens for Bengaluru, political commentator and author)
 
