NOIDA: A 32-year-old gangster, wanted in several cases of murder and loot, was shot dead by a police team in a green belt near   in Phase 3 after he fired at the cops from an   rifle on Sunday morning. 

 Police said the accused, Shravan Chaudhury, and his accomplice had fired at them when they asked the duo to stop their car for a checking at 6.30am. Shravan apperently tried to flee in the car and entered a greenbelt enclosure through a small passage. The police claimed the accused had driven the car into the greenbelt in a bid to escape and got trapped. He was killed in the shootout that followed.
 
 In a press conference in the morning, additional DGP, Meerut Zone, Prashant Kumar claimed that the crime branch had received a tip-off about the movement of Shravan and his accomplice in a car. “The police had signalled the suspects’ Maruti Dzire to stop. The criminals, instead, opened fire at the police team and the shots hit the bullet-proof jackets of policemen. The cops opened retaliatory shots and the criminal was fatally injured,” Kumar said. His accomplice managed to escape, jumping off the boundary wall, he said. 
 
 Three policemen — inspector Balwan Singh and constables Sanjeev and Satveer — suffered minor injuries and were admitted to a private hospital, Kumar said.
 
 Shravan was rushed to the district hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police seized an AK-47 rifle and a .315 gun from the spot.
 
 Shravan died before he could be questioned and the source of AK-47 could not be established, the police said. His mother is from Nepal and it is suspected that the weapon had been transported from there, they added. 
 
 Shravan was a resident of Vijay Nagar in  . He was wanted in 14 cases of murder, abduction, loot and vehicle thefts in Delhi NCR. He was the mastermind of the gang that had snatched a Toyota Innova from the driver of a media group outside Garden Galleria on October 22 last year. The gang then roamed around the city for three hours and later dumped the driver, Ramu (50), in Raj Nagar Extension before fleeing with his vehicle. On November 15, Noida police had arrested three criminals — Irfan, Vishal and Rohit — and recovered the Innova from them in Bisrakh area. Shravan had managed to escape with two other accomplices — Mohit and Sagar. The gang members used to snatch SUVs at gunpoint and sell them to unscrupulous buyers in Naxal-infested areas, the police said.
 
 The police said the .315 rifle recovered from the spot belonged to a security guard in Bisrakh area, who had been robbed of the licenced gun on September 9 last year. The guard, Surendra Verma, was returning on a bike when the criminals overtook him in a car and forced him to stop. Two criminals got down from the car, snatched the rifle at gunpoint and fled . The car used in the crime had been stolen, the police said.
 
 The police said Shravan was involved in criminal activities for the past five years. He got married three years ago and allegedly killed a man in Delhi in 2016 as he suspected him of having an affair with his wife. The Delhi police had registered an FIR against Shravan and announced a Rs 50,000 reward on his arrest. The UP police had also announced Rs 50,000 on his arrest and launched a manhunt for him.
 
 According to the police, Shravan was trying to strengthen his gang and planning to murder the witnesses in cases filed against him in Delhi NCR.
 
 
