NAGPUR: What if Chhatrapati   Maharaj lived in today’s era? “He would have adapted to the changing world and upgraded his knowledge of technology, which is essential to survive in today’s times,” said advocate  , founder president of Maratha Seva Sangh. 

 Khedekar was delivering a lecture on ‘Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and present condition’ organized by   on the occasion of 388th birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on Monday
 
 Citing Darwin’s theory about survival of the fittest, Khedekar said it applies to everyone. “Shivaji was one of the great examples of this theory as he fought against all odds to establish the Maratha empire. So, he would have emerged victorious even today due to this ability,” said Khedekar.
 
 Talking about the respect Shivaji earned even from his enemies, Khedekar said they would consider every ‘Mawla’ as Shivaji. “The Maratha king never distinguished a person on the basis of caste, creed, religion or colour. That is why he was considered a people’s leader. People today must follow his ideals to create a just and peaceful society,” added Khedkar.
 
 Every soldier of Shivaji was called a ‘Mawla’, irrespective of his caste. “Same way, every person living in this country is an Indian first. It is our identity irrespective of caste or religion,” said Khedekar.
 
 Emphasizing on dedication towards education, the well-known littérateur said, “Shivaji Maharaj always believed in theoretical as well practical knowledge. It is the duty of every individual to promote and educate members from his family and society, because then only a civilized and progressive society can be created.”
 
 Speaking about globalization from Shivaji’s viewpoint, Khedekar said, “The world has become an global village. So, we must learn different languages. Shahaji Raje, Shivaji Raje and even   learnt several languages as they understood importance of effective communication skills.”
 
 He added that imbibing ideals of leaders of Maharashtra like Shahu Maharaj, Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj, Mahatma Phule and others, will help develop a prosperous society.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane, Pro-VC   and registrar   were also present. 
 
 
