BENGALURU: Dressed in his trademark white kurta-pyjama, the man of the moment on Saturday was Congress leader  , who paced restlessly outside Vidhana Soudha for the best part of the day, working the phones and constantly checking his watch. 

 All this to ensure that the 78 Congress and 37 JD(S) MLAs were not poached by BJP at the last minute inside Vidhana Soudha after hectic efforts were made to keep the flock intact. Barring two of his party MLAs, who gave some anxious moments, everyone was accounted for. Not surprisingly, a familiar scene in the assembly's opposition lounge was of MLAs, both Congress and JD(S), falling at his feet. The party's hatchet man, troubleshooter and spin doctor, 56-year-old Doddallahalli Kempegowda Shivakumar's political rise since 1985 has been steady.
 
  Sources close to him said over the last week, keeping Congress MLAs together in a resort, ferrying them by bus to Hyderabad at short notice after permission to fly to Kochi was denied, organising the dharna outside Vidhana Soudha when B S Yeddyurappa took the oath as chief minister and even organising caps for MLAs sitting under the blazing sun were all in a day's work for him. He's also trusted by the Congress high command, considering that he was given the responsibility of hosting Congress MLAs from Maharashtra in early 2000 and Gujarat legislators in 2017 to prevent them from being poached. 
 
 
 In Karnataka, he has ensured the victory of every bypoll he was tasked with, except Hebbal, in 2016. Hailing from a middle-class agriculturist family in Sathanur, 30km from Bengaluru, Shivakumar's early schooling was at the reputed National Public School, which he was asked to leave in Class 8 for failing to meet the academic requirements. 
 
 A staunch believer in numerology, his favourite number is six, which he says is ruled by planet Venus and attracts power. After plunging into politics, he did not complete his undergraduate course and became a graduate only after writing the examination as a minister in early 2000. "My children are good in academics. I wrote my degree exams as a minister because my children shouldn't ask me why I'm not a graduate," he had told mediapersons.
 
 He's been rather open about his ambition about becoming the chief minister, but knows he'll wait for his turn. In election speeches this year, Shivakumar said: "Is it wrong to nurture ambitions of becoming a CM? I'll wait for all communities, including Dalits, to become chief ministers and wait for my turn. Age is on my side.'' Unfazed by the income-tax department raids on his residence and offices in August 2017, he is said to have rebuffed feelers from BJP to cross over with offers of positions. Popularly known as DK in political circles, he has as many detractors as supporters. 
 
 Seniors in the party dislike him and that was the main reason he lost the race for the KPCC president’s post. He was made the Congress campaign committee chief for the 2018 assembly polls.For now, his aim is to emerge as the Vokkaliga leader in Karnataka. The space is now occupied by former PM HD Deve Gowda and his son Kumaraswamy.
 
 
