Mumbai: Of the 1.1 lakh consumer grievances received by the banking regulator during its current accounting year so far, only 251 — or 0.2% — concern mis-selling of financial products. According to   sources, this could possibly be due to lack of awareness that anyone who is sold an inappropriate product can have grievance redressed through the banking ombudsman.

 One reason for the low-level of awareness is that it was only with effect from July 1, 2017 that mis-selling of financial products was made one of the grounds of complaints under the RBI’s Banking Ombudsman Scheme. July 1 marks the beginning of the RBI’s accounting year and all data is collated for this period. Under the ombudsman scheme, 21 offices receive complaints on various grounds, including ‘improper/unsuitable sale of third-party financial products’.
 
 According to data collated by the RBI, of the total 251 complaints received from July 2017 to April 24, 2018, the maximum (82) have been against the largest lender  , followed by   (33) and HDFC Bank (32). Overall, only 166 complaints have been found to be tenable.
 
 A bulk of the complaints received against banks are for failure to meet commitments or non-observance of fair practice code, followed by complaints in respect of debit and credit cards. The other big category of complaints is non-receipt of pension payments.
 
 Given the small number of complaints, the RBI is not treating mis-selling as a systemic problem and is looking at it more as individual complaints. As a result, no bank has been penalised for mis-selling till date, although banks have been fined for other violations like non-compliance with Know Your Customer ( ) norms.
 
 The issue of mis-selling of insurance by banks has gained significance because of two factors. First, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India has allowed banks to sell products of more than one life insurance company. Second, insurers with bank promoters have developed a clear lead compared to those who do not have banking promoters.
 
 
