Chandigarh: A signal to stop a suspicious looking vehicle triggered a 2-km chase between a police control room (PCR) van and the Maruti Gypsy in heavy traffic that ended with a haul of 24 boxes of illicit liquor in the city on Wednesday morning.

 Head constable Hira Singh was deputed at the Sector 20-21-33-34 roundabout (commonly known as old labour chowk) along with Home Guard volunteer Rajesh Kumar when he noticed the Gypsy coming from Sector 22 side around 8am. With all its flaps closed and a police department sticker on it, the vehicle drew the attention of Hira Singh. He signalled the driver to stop, who instead, pressed the accelerator. Hira Singh just about managed to save himself from being hit.
 
 Hira Singh said he started following the Gypsy. After spotting the police van, the Gypsy driver increased the speed. With children going to school on their cycles and a number of school buses on the road at that time of the hour, Hira Singh feared the Gypsy could cause a major accident. “I blew the hooter of the van to alert the commuters so that they could keep their vehicles or themselves away from the Gypsy,” said Hira Singh.
 
 The police siren scared the driver, who took a right turn from the Sector 18-19-20-12 roundabout, hit the vehicle on a divider near the Sector 20 mosque and abandoned the Gypsy. 
 
 When Hira Singh searched the Gypsy, which bore a Himachal Pradesh registration number plate, he found 24 boxes of liquor and a mobile phone of the driver in it. Hira Singh informed Sector 19 police station.
 
 Ashwani Attri, station house officer, Sector 19, said they have   the liquor and the vehicle. Officials of excise department were told about the seizure. “If the car owner fails to produce bills and permit of the liquor, he will be booked under the Excise Act,” said an official.
 
 Although liquor smuggling from Chandigarh to other parts of the country has almost stopped in the last few years due to rise in the rates in the UT, the prices in Chandigarh were still cheaper than those in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 
