HYDERABAD: Heavy flow of traffic, a buzzing nightlife and rampant commercialisation, has led to a steep rise in noise pollution levels in city’s upscale   locality over the last three years.

 According to data tabled in the   recently, pertaining to noise levels in seven metro cities across India, the average recorded night-time decibel (dB) levels in this swanky neighbourhood stood at an alarmingly high 66 dB in 2017 – 23% higher than its 2015 figure of 53 dB. Not surprisingly then, it was found to be the noisiest of 10 areas, within Hyderabad, surveyed for the report. As per official standards, the permissible noise level (during the night) for the area is 45 dB, while the day-time limit is 55 dB.
 
  
  
 
 Locals attribute this exceeding rise in noise pollution levels to the slew of pubs/clubs that have found their way into this pocket, and resort to playing loud music, during late hours, to entertain guests. “Residents staying in and around Road No 45, 36 and 10 are the worst affected as a lot of pubs have opened up in these areas, over the last few years. On several occasions we have urged the police to ensure that these pubs stick to their permitted deadlines, to curb noise pollution, but to no avail,” said  , secretary of Jubilee Hills Residents Welfare Association.
 
 Industry experts say, as many as 15 new small and medium-sized pubs/clubs have opened in Jubilee Hills, in recent times.
 
 The ire of residents is palpable even in social media that’s flooded with posts of residents, agitated with the unending pollution menace. “I live close to the Jubilee Hills club. We are having noise and parking issues on Road no 13 for the last four months. Complained to the management but to no avail. We hope your team can provide some relief at the earliest (sic),” tweeted  , seeking help from city police.
 
 Pollution control board officials also cite the increased traffic flow in the area as a reason for the spiralling noise pollution levels. “The traffic in Jubilee Hills has increased over the past few years resulting in this crisis,” said P  , a senior environmental scientist from the Telangana State Pollution Control Board.
 
