Chandigarh: The UT education department, on Friday, sent a notice to city-based private schools to stop pressurising parents from economically weaker sections to submit affidavits saying they will pay fees once they cross the suggested   income limit. The action came in the wake of a complaint filed in this regard. 

 The letter issued by district education officer Anujit Kaur, a copy of which is with The Times of India, directs unaided private schools to not force any parent to submit the documents mentioned in the affidavits.
 
 Members of the Chandigarh Parents Association (CPA) sent the complaint to Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Wednesday. 
 
 The issue was taken up at the summons meeting of the commission on Wednesday in which UT education department officials were also present.
 
 In the complaint, CPA president Nitin Goyal said parents of students studying in the EWS category approached the association and informed them that the school is pressurising them to submit a comprehensive affidavit along with a large number of financial documents. These include income tax returns of five years, bank statements for five years, investment in shares and mutual funds, loan statements, Aadhar card, PAN card, TV, fridge, AC, gold jewellery, health and life insurance details, household expenditure, phone bills, electricity bills, water bills, details of other children's school, details of vehicles, list of domestic items valued Rs 10,000 or more, all sources of income, rent agreement, details of rental income etc.
 
 The education department also directed schools to strictly adhere to instructions issued by the department on January 16, 2012. 
 
 Academician and activist Nitin Goyal said, “It’s good that the department has issued directions to schools without delay. We hope this will bring an end to the practice. This demand is clearly a tool to harass and discourage parents from continuing the education of their children under the economically weaker section category.”
 
 
