NAGPUR: In a new twist to the lecture controversy, academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra has decided to return the lifetime achievement award conferred on him by   (NU) to condemn vice-chancellor SP Kane’s refusal to allow ‘First Matoshree Memorial Oration’ at the Convocation Hall in December.

 The chancellor of   at Karad was the first to be conferred the prestigious award by the Kane administration in 2015. Well-known lawyer VR Manohar and Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram are the other recipients of the ‘Jeevan Sadhana Puraskar’ conferred by the current NU administration.
 
 Mishra said, “I have served my alma mater (NU) as elected member of various statutory bodies for the last three decades. This is the ‘reward’ of selfless service. I pray to God that he gives Kane the wisdom and sanity not to insult motherhood and womanhood because mother is the only absolute in this universe.”
 
 Kane didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 The award was instituted during ex-VC SN Pathan’s tenure and was given to multiple persons until the new administration under Kane restricted it to one during each NU Foundation Day ceremony. The previous awardees include — noted litterateur Mahesh Elkunchwar, senior journalist Suresh Dwadashiwar, ex-law dean of NU Thrity Patel and ex-HoD of radiotherapy at Government Medical College Dr Krishna Kamble.
 
 In a strongly worded emotional letter to Kane, Mishra said, “Let me know the day and time when my messenger would return the citation and the shawl that was conferred on me as a part of the ‘Jeevan Sadhana Puraskar’ to your office.”
 
 Last month, Katol MLA Ashish Deshmukh had lodged a complaint with the governor Ch   Rao, who later sought a ‘report’ from Kane, on the issue of not allowing the lecture.
 
 Deshmukh had said that Kane’s decision was a ‘definite insult to woman and womanhood’.
 
 Deshmukh was the guest of honour for the ‘First Matoshree Memorial Oration’ on the theme ‘Mother the only absolute’ to commemorate the second death anniversary of Shivkumari Mishra, mother of Dr Vedprakash Mishra. The lecture was finally held at IMA Hall on December 11, 2017.
 
 Interestingly, a lecture on Shivkumari Mishra’s first death anniversary was held at the NU Convocation Hall in 2016 and Kane had presided over it. This time, however, Kane refused permission calling it ‘private and family function’ which cannot be allowed on the university property.
 
 Box
 
 Lecture Controversy
 
 Dec 11, 2016 | Adaranjail Samaroh to commemorate first death anniversary of Shivkumari Mishra is presided over by VC SP Kane
 
 Nov 30, 2017 | Organising committee chairman DK Agrawal seeks permission to rent NU Convocation Hall to hold lecture as part of second commemoration
 
 Dec 5 | VC SP Kane denies permission stating that the hall can’t be given for private/family function
 
 Dec 11 | The lecture delivered by ex-VC of KKSU Uma Vaidya is held at IMA Hall
 
 Dec 14 | Agrawal seeks details of NU policy based on which the VC rejected the request
 
 Dec 20 | Katol MLA Ashish Deshmukh, who was guest of honour, lodges complaint with the chancellor
 
 Jan 16 | Deputy secretary to governor Ujjwala Dandekar seeks report from the NU VC
 
 Feb 10, 2018 | Dr Vedprakash Mishra announces to return lifetime award conferred by NU
 
 
