There is something about House 57 in Chandigarh’s Sector 5. A step inside and one is transported to an era when the neighbouring Shivalik Hills were visible from the backyard of a house.

 Except for a plaque declaring the inauguration of this UT administration property a year ago, everything else in this two-storeyed building has that distinct Chandigarh architecture —a perfect play of light and wind, even in the darkest corner; windows placed haphazardly on walls, but still making a symmetry; and, of course, Brise Soleil (concrete structures and brick ‘jaalis’ that dot almost all buildings constructed in the city before 2000).
 
 At the entrance, welcome notes let you in on a rarely celebrated fact: about a “foreigner” who touched almost every sphere of life in this laidback, grid-shaped city of roundabouts. And, no, this foreigner is not the city’s master architect, Le Corbusier. He is the other man who made Chandigarh, who shaped the buildings in which this city studied and lived, and whose ashes now rest in the waters of Sukhna Lake.
 
 If Corbusier is the brain behind Chandigarh’s oncefamed and now fast-fading architecture,   is its soul and this soul continues to breathe life into the city. You can see it in the one-storeyed type 13 houses in Sector 16, which are meant for clerks, and the most palatial residence — that of the Punjab CM — in Sector 2.
 
 He is there in the red-sandstone building of   at PU, too. A cousin of the celebrated French architect, Swiss-born   lived in this house from 1954 to 1965, when he was the chief architect of the then newly born city.
 
 It is late afternoon when Deepika Gandhi, the director of  , drops in at the house which she curated into a museum, the  , in 2017. “I took about a year to collect photographs and restore the house to its original design,” says Gandhi, a specialist on Corbusieresque architecture. Sunset’s about an hour away, and faint sunlight has lit up all rooms of this west-facing house. Standing next to a red-brick, concrete fireplace, Deepika explains how a majority of this house’s design, a work of Jeanneret himself, underwent many renovations and lost its original self.
 
 Sector 5 happens to be home to several government houses. This one, too, was occupied by IAS officers and other top people in the government machinery in the years that followed Pierre’s departure. Over time, eachfamily that stayed in the house made a change and Pierre’s designs were lost behind the layers of concrete.
 
 The fireplace in the living room of this house did not exist for some years as some of the residents had covered it up, reveals Gandhi. “The administration did not have building plans, and I had to reconstruct the design by going through photo archives and arranging photos of this place,” she says.
 
 
 
