GURUGRAM: Two cousins, both students of   in Gurugram, were among three killed in a head-on collision between a car and a dumper truck on Pataudi-Rewari Road on Thursday night. 

 Police said Jitender (24) and Keshav (26) - first-year and a third-year students, respectively - along with their domestic help Arjun (30) were going to   village in a white   to attend a wedding around 11pm. Near Pahari village, A dumper, which was coming from the Rewari side, collided with their car, killing all the three on the spot. The dumper's driver abandoned the truck and fled. 
 
 Both Jitender and Keshav were residents of   near Pataudi and used to study at Amity's Pachgaon campus. Arjun was from Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Local villagers saw the two vehicles - the Creta's front portion was completely damaged - on the road and called police.
 
 A team of cops, who rushed to the spot from Pataudi police station, had to struggle for almost half an hour to drag out the bodies, which were stuck inside the wrecked car.
 
 "We took out the three with the help of villagers and rushed them to hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead," said investigating officer ASI Krishan Kumar.
 
 Later, family members of the two students reached the hospital and identified them with the help of the registration number of the car, which belonged to Keshav. 
 
 On the basis of a complaint filed by Vishal Kataria, a relative of the students, an FIR has been filed against the unidentified dumper driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by endangering life), 304A (causing death by negligence), 427(causing damage) of the IPC at Pataudi police station. The dumper has been seized. The bodies were handed over to the kin after the post-mortem on Friday.
 
 "Prima facie, it seems that both the vehicles were speeding. Medical tests did not find any trace of liquor in Keshav and Jitender's bodies. We are trying to identify the driver with the help of the dumper's registration number. He will be arrested soon," said ASI Kumar. 
 
 Earlier this week, four members of a family, including two minor girls, were killed while another member, a one-year-old boy, suffered injuries as the bike they were riding was rammed by a dumper near Sohna late on Tuesday. The dumper had also smashed a Fiat Punto and grazed past a Scorpio, just before knocking down the bike on Sohna-Ballabhgarh road. Both the car and SUV drivers were injured. The dumper's driver is yet to be arrested.
 
 
 
