CHENNAI: In a move expected to protect homebuyers from paying inflated guideline value, the registration department has directed officials not to increase the guideline value for registering new apartments above the existing rates. This follows complaints about some sub-registrars raising the value irrationally for newly-promoted housing projects over and above the prescribed rates leading to increase in the cost of purchasing new flats. 

 In a circular, inspector general of registrations   said though there were no specific orders mandating fixation of a new rate for newly-promoted apartments, it had come to the light that a few sub-registrars had "unnecessarily" sent proposals to the district   concerned for fixation of new value for the flat premises and the district registrars had also mechanically fixed a new rate.
 
 "In cases of newly-promoted flats/apartments situated on a street with an existing value, the same rate should be followed for the new flats. In such cases, no new rate should be fixed for the new premises," he said. Fixing higher guideline value for an apartment on a street, for which guideline value is available, will result in two (guideline value) rates for the same street, he said, leading to an unrealistic situation.
 
 Developers said they were facing hardships while registering the property for sale at primary locations as the sub-registrar would fix the guideline value of an adjacent road that attracted higher guideline value. "Then, we need to file an appeal to fix the correct guideline value ending up in delay in registrations," a builder said. Registration department sources said the move will largely help those residing in major cities and towns where this issue was largely reported.
 
 Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India (Credai) Chennai chapter vice-president   welcomed the development saying it ended the ambiguity in fixing the guideline value for new flats. "This will help in customers not paying higher guideline value over and above the fixed rate," he said.
 
 
