MUMBAI: Will all 124 flat purchasers in an under-construction residential tower in   get apartments after the builder decided to construct only 36 storeys, down from the 48 storeys originally proposed? 

 The Bombay high court wants the answer to this question and has asked the developer to submit details of the flats allotted to 124 members of the RNA Exotica Flat Purchasers Association. Justice Shahrukh Kathawala has also directed the developer,  , to file an affidavit about the reduction in sale price to the flat purchasers who had paid a premium for apartments on higher floors, but will now be given apartments on lower floors. RNA Exotica has been engulfed in controversy for some time, due to the delay in completing construction of the luxury residences that were promised to flat purchasers. According to the association, the flats were sold with the promise that the residential towers would be of 48 floors. However, subsequently, the developer decided to construct only up to 36 floors due to the height restrictions imposed by the Airports Authority of India. Flats were, however, sold between the 36th and 48th floors. "The developer has till date not conveyed the exact flat numbers and floors on which they have now been allotted flats. The developer has also not informed (the flat purchasers) the reduction in sale consideration that they will be entitled to, for being taken down by 12 floors," the association claimed. 
 
  The developer had in a separate litigation undertaken to complete the construction by October 2019, but the association claimed that nothing was happening at the site and the work was being done at a slow pace. The builder had promised the flat purchasers that the tower would be fully residential, but had without informing the flat purchasers, the plans were changed to allow commercial establishments, the association alleged. Another grievance of the association was that the developer had taken a loan of Rs 100 crore from Axis Bank and had agreed to deposit the money received from the flat purchasers into that account, though the designated account under the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act was with SBI. 
 
  Last year, the economic offences wing lodged an FIR against the developers for failing to deliver the promised luxury apartments. Earlier this year, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority had asked Skyline to refund Rs 1.23 crore received from a flat buyer for an apartment in the project. Justice   has appointed independent architect Amol Shetgiri to visit the site and submit a report to the court about the progress of construction work. "The developer shall handover the latest approved plans to Shetgiri who will ascertain that the work carried out is strictly in accordance with the approved plans," said Justice Kathawalla. 
 
 
