BHOPAL: In what are being seen as the most crucial local body polls before the November assembly elections, voters of 20 municipalities and town councils in Dhar, Barwani, Khandwa, Guna and Anuppur districts will exercise their franchise on Wednesday.

 Presently,   holds the reigns in 13 of these local bodies and   in seven. Wednesday’s elections spread over six districts from Badwani and Dhar in the south to Guna and Shivpuri in the northern parts of the state will send a political message before the Kolaras and Mungaoli assembly bypolls.
 
 With assembly elections just nine months away, the campaigns for these polls witnessed dramatic incidents. In Dhar district, BJP’s internal dispute came to the fore when the party’s candidate for Dhamnod municipal council polls, Dinesh Sharma, was greeted with a garland of shoes by his own party colleague while campaigning on January 8.
 
 A clash was reported between the Congress and the BJP in Guna district after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s roadshow for the Raghogarh-Vijaypur municipality. Congress workers allegedly raised slogans in the chief minister’s public meeting there and later the situation turned grave with workers of both the parties and local Congress MLA Jaivardhan Singh staying put at the police station till wee hours in the morning.
 
 AICC general secretary and former chief minister   even sent a message over whatsapp asking citizens to maintain peace and calm.
 
 In Dhar district, Pithampur, Dhar and Manawar municipalities and Sardarpur, Rajgarh, Dharampuri, Dhamnod, Kukshi and Dahi town councils will go to polls. Elections in Barwani will be held for Sendhwa and Barwani municipalities and Paansemal, Khetia, Palsud, Anjad and Rajpur town councils. Polling for Omkareshwar town council in Khandwa district and Raghogarh-Vijaypur in Guna will also be held on Wednesday. In Anuppur district, polling will be held for Jaithari Nagar Parishad. Counting and results to be declared on January 20.
 
 There will also be bypolls for Semaria town council in Rewa district and certain wards in municipal councils of Singrauli and Sarni in Betul, Mandla, Sidhi, Sagar, Chhatarpur, Jhabua and Dhamoh, two wards in Satna and three wards of Balaghat. Elections will also be held in town councils of Akoda in Bhind, Karnawad in Dewas district and Khilchipur in Rajgarh district after the council chairpersons have been recalled under Section 47, Sub-section 2 of the MP Municipality Act 1961.
 
 
