BENGALURU: A   scam seems to be brewing in the   ( ). In the past few months, the   has found irregularities associated with the  , and cancelled over 500 khata certificates issued in Bommanahalli and RR Nagar zones.

 It suspended at least 10 officials for facilitating the illegal documents.
 
 The BBMP is yet to register a police complaint on the scam. Senior officials said an internal inquiry into the matter is still on and declined to reveal the exact number of officials suspended.
 
 Khata scam: BBMP advises public to exercise caution
 
 The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has cancelled more than 500 khata certificates issued in Bommanahalli and RR Nagar zones. It has also suspended 10 officials for issuing the fake documents.
 
 Khata is a document that assures a property owner that his or her property is recorded in the property register maintained by the local body. Such a property is assigned a number, assessed for tax and records the person primarily responsible for paying the tax. While it is true that any titleholder of a property within the Palike’s jurisdiction can apply for a khata, the same should be backed by relevant documents and validated by the assistant revenue officer.
 
 M Venkatachalapathy, joint commissioner (revenue), BBMP, said that in Bommanahalli and RR Nagar, they found khatas issued using fake documents or without the backing of required documents. “Involvement of revenue officers and assistant revenue officers was clear, and they have been suspended. In RR Nagar, a joint commissioner was relieved of his job as he had failed to curb the malpractices,” he added.
 
 Another senior BBMP official said public should be careful and not try to obtain khatas without the necessary documents.
 
 “As per norms, those applying for a khata for the first time should first file a return of property tax, available in the property tax self-assessment book. Then they should pay improvement charges. Once this is done, the ARO should be contacted to ascertain property details and after that pay the khata transfer fee, which is 2% of the value of stamp duty of the sale deed. The tax and fees should be paid through a demand draft in favour of the commissioner, BBMP, along with an application for the issue of khata,” he added.
 
  
  
 
 
 
