HYDERABAD: Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday made a strong case for 'growing states' to be given liberty by the Centre to take decisions that would benefit them. He said subjects of agriculture and rural development should be totally handed over to states. 

 "Disincentivising a growing state (sic) by the government is a not a wise thing. The growth of a growing state implies growth of the nation. The states should be allowed to play a bigger role,"   told the chief economic advisor to Government of India, Arvind Subramanian, at a meeting he had with him at  . "It can be implemented in one state and this case study should be taken by the Centre to arrive at a decision," he said. 
 
 The CM also said CAMPA (Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority) funds that were collected from states should be rolled back to the respective states as per their entitlement for green cover development. 
 
 During the two-and-a half-hour meeting, Subraniam was briefed by the chief minister about various programmes undertaken by the government. Lauding the land records updation undertaken by the Telangana government, Arvind Subramanian said it was something   should look as a case-study. Subramanian described the land records updation programme as being the "heart of good governance". 
 
 Subramanian, who also took keen interest in the KCR kits programme, said details of such a beneficial programme should be provided to the Government of India. "It should become a learning point for other states as well as to the whole country," he said. KCR kits are provided to mothers at the time of delivery of a baby in a government hospital. It compromises various things the mother and child need. 
 
 On being told about the investment support scheme for agriculture which would be launched on April 20, 2018, Arvind Subramanian showed interest in being present at such an event. 
 
 Finance Minister  , chief advisor to government Rajiv Sharma, advisor  , chief secretary S K Joshi, DGP  , MP Balka Suman, government whip in the Council Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, CMO principal secretaries S Narsing Rao and Shanti Kumari, principal secretary (finance) Ramakrishna Rao and others were present in the meeting. 
 
 KCR used google maps to brief Subramanian about the Kaleshwaram irrigation lift project. To complete the project in time, about 2,600 workers are working in three shifts, he said.
 
 
