VILLUPURAM: Police on Monday arrested a 37-year-old history-sheeter, who murdered an eight-year-old dalit boy and attacked his sister and mother leaving them severely injured at   village in the district. The arrested was identified as V   from   in Cuddalore district. 

 Police recovered six sovereign gold jewels and silver articles and nine mobile phones stolen from the victims from his possession. Police also arrested his girlfriend identified as Ambiga from Melbhuvanagiri, who helped him in selling or pledging the stolen valuables. Police produced the two before a court in  , which remanded them in judicial custody.
 
 Inquiries revealed that Thillainathan was wanted in five assault and burglary cases each in Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai districts and a case in Cuddalore district. He was evading arrest.
 
 His modus operandi was to target women and children living on the outskirts of the villages and attack them and loot gold and other valuables from them. 
 
 Armed with an iron rod he always operated alone. He never used a mobile phone as he realised that police earlier managed to trace his location using his mobile phone signal. Moving around in a lungi and a shirt to give an impression of a local villager, he struck after midnight after removing his clothes and entering the houses wearing just an underwear.
 
 Earlier, he was convicted in eight cases in Ariyalur and Nagapattinam districts and was lodged at Cuddalore and Trichy central prisons. Since his release in June 2016, he used to visit his friend Ramu alias Padaiappa at Thirukovilyur frequently.
 
 Thillainathan confessed to murdering the Dalit boy Samayan and attacking his sister, 13, and mother, 46, on February 21 at Vellampudur village under   police station limits. The women, who sustained severe injuries, were undergoing treatment at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research Institute. The murder created ripples in the state. Police had interrogating more than 300 people during the course of the investigation. 
 
 
