NAGPUR: State finance minister   has assured to sanction special financial assistance/grants for the city, considering it as the second capital. He ruled out chances of bringing entertainment duty and professional tax under municipal corporations.

 Mungantiwar will present the state’s budget for 2018-19 on March 9. He held a meeting with officials and public representatives of the divisions’ six districts at divisional commissioner’s office on Friday to know about projects and also demand district planning committee (DPC) annual funds from them.
 
 In a press conference,   said there was a demand from legislators of the city for special grants in the meeting. “The BJP-Sena government in the state had sanctioned special grants of Rs20 crore per annum for the city between 1995 and 1999 considering the then PWD minister Nitin Gadkari’s demand. The Congress-NCP government released only Rs5 crore per annum for a couple of years and discontinued it. I have considered the demand positively. Special grants will not be returned to the government if not spent in a particular year,” he said.
 
 Guardian minister   and legislators have demanded special grant of Rs100 crore per annum for the city that will come to the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ), if sanctioned.
 
 Replying to a query related to statehood for Vidarbha, Mungantiwar said BJP was always in support of small states and will go for separate statehood once it gets majority on the demand in the legislative assembly and council.
 
 On the demand for entertainment duty and professional tax under municipal corporations, Mungantiwar said civic bodies can be at loss if given powers of recovering these taxes. “The state is giving GST grant to municipal corporations every month, that too in advance. We will have to reduce GST grant in that case. It is seen that recovery is not done properly by municipal corporations. In that case, the revenue from these taxes will come down and municipal corporations will be at loss,” he said.
 
 Also ruling out increase in GST grant of municipal corporations, Mungantiwar said the quantum of grant is finalized as per a formula based on corporations’ five years revenue from LBT.
 
 Claiming that the state’s agriculture growth rate increased to 19.3% from 12.5% since the BJP came to power in the state, Mungantiwar said a slew of projects will be launched for farmers’ overall development in the budget.
 
 “Allocation for agriculture and farmers-related heads increased from Rs21,000 crore (2010-11) to Rs63,000 crore (2017-18). Group farming will be encouraged to give various types of benefits to farmers holding less land. Action rooms will be set up where farmers will get to know about schemes and success stories of farming and subsidiary occupations,” he said.
 
 Claiming that the state’s overall growth rate increased from 5.8% to 9.4%, Mungantiwar said the target is to achieve ‘no compensation state’ status soon. He also assured that the Centre will bring diesel and petrol under GST within five years.
 
 On withdrawal of 30% cut on DPCs, Mungantiwar said that cut was imposed for giving loan waiver to farmers, but later taken back as the money remained unspent following direct benefit transfer (DBT) system in some departments.
 
 
