 Nagpur: Aiming to streamline handling of plastic waste, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) plans to establish plastic collection centres across the city. At an event organized by India Peace Centre and St Francis de Sales College to mark the World Earth Day on Sunday, mayor Nanda Jichkar said that a special committee would be formed for door-to-door public awareness campaign.  “Segregation will depend on the type of plastic. Another committee will monitor recycling and reuse of plastic waste. We must support the state’s decision to ban plastic and focus on finding biodegradable alternatives. The ban will reduce strain on landfills and economy,” Jichkar said. Speaking on the occasion, ecologist Milind Pagare said, “Due to its varying qualities and easy availability, plastic has become an integral part of our lives. Humans have spread plastic waste right from streets to Mount Everest. Currently, six great plastic patch have formed in the oceans around the world. If we don’t change by 2050, our oceans will be flooded with pliable waste endangering the aquatic life.” Suggesting simple techniques to curb use of plastic, Pagare said, “Your waste is your responsibility. Think about eight billion lives creating the same waste everyday despite knowing the price paid by our ecosystem for it. Refusing to dispose plastic waste in the open can make a lot of difference.” Pagare also highlighted harmful side effects of plastic additives like plasticizers, dyes, compatibilizers are carcinogenic on human health. NGO Green Vigil Foundation (GVF) also conducted an outreach campaign on Sunday. With help form Earth Day Network, GVF actively interacted with crowd to spread awareness and urged citizens to say no to plastic. Speaking with TOI, founder Kaustav Chatterjee said, “The plastic ban is a right step. However, the state government is yet to be implement it properly. Citizens need to be made aware of alternatives to plastic.” Recently felicitated with Rising Star award by EDN, GVF member Surbhi Jaiswal said, “Eradicating plastic pollution must be our goal. For people to understand and shift their focus from plastic, we need to look out for few viable, cheaper and degradable alternatives.” 