JALANDHAR: With Illegal sand mining emerging as the biggest political issue, local bodies minister Navjot Singh   has announced that the three-member cabinet sub-committee will go in all the details of sand mining – including looking into the role of politicians and officials, apart from examining the policy issues.

 “There is no smoke without fire. Saare podte pholaange, (we shall expose everything) whether they be politicians or officers or police officers. For this, we shall take every possible step and will meet all the stakeholders, including the contractors who left the mining contractors after bagging these. We will ask them what and who made them to abandon their contracts,” he said while responding to the queries. The cabinet sub-committee includes Sidhu, finance minister Manpreet Badal and rural development minister  . “We will expose politicians involved in sand mining. Of course we shall also go into the details of the mining policy as we shall be getting feedback from all the stakeholders,” he said.
 
 Sidhu said that their committee would complete their work in one month and would then submit the report to the chief minister who would take a decision on the report.
 
 He also held that state government could have its own corporation for sand mining and supply. “It is a state resource and government could itself handle the things while pushing out the cartels. It would not only bring sand prices down but also would increase income of the state government. Some other states have such corporations,” he said.
 
 Notably, Sidhu has already been batting for strict action against   even before CM himself saw illegal sand mining in river   in district   and made it in public by tweeting the pictures from his twitter handle on Tuesday, which brought the issue to the centre stage and even gave ammunition to the Centre.
 
 When reports of involvement of some MLAs of ruling party are also doing rounds, opposition leaders have even named a minister and has asked the CM to take action against him.
 
 
