Madurai: The indefinite strike called by transport workers’ unions affected normal life in Madurai and its surrounding districts with people who planned advance trips bearing the brunt of it. Trade union representatives like R Vasudevan of CITU claimed that more than 90 per cent of the buses were not operated in Madurai. However, official figures claimed that the numbers were better. 

 Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that they managed to operate over 34 per cent of   buses and over 50 per cent of SETC buses. 
 
 However, by 8 am only 18 per cent of the buses were operated. The percentage of buses increased only gradually. TNSTC Madurai has around 7,000 employees with a bus fleet of 1100. The collector assured more services on Saturday. 
 
 A TNSTC official said while they had displayed the transport minister’s appeal on notice boards in the evening, workers were also being called up over phone to return to work, he said. Tension prevailed in one of the TNSTC bus depots on bypass road in the morning. 
 
 This was after officials led by Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao tried to get some of the buses to operate with the help of workers affiliated to AIADMK’s Anna Thozhil Sanga Peravai. A large number of police were deployed at the depot. 
 
 They used mild force to control the workers who blocked the buses. The employees also resorted to a road block protest. 
 
 A posse of police personnel was deployed at bus depots throughout the district. Policing was also seen at bus terminals and popular city routes to protect the few buses in operation. 
 
 However, a TNSTC bus was attacked by two unidentified bike-borne people in front of   flower market in the evening. While the windshield was damaged in the incident, driver Kudiyarasu sustained a minor injury. 
 
 While city residents somewhat managed to travel on mini buses and share auto services, those travelling to the city from rural parts and back were affected to a larger extent. 
 
 All the bus terminals in Madurai like MGR and Arappalayam bus terminals, which handle long distance buses, as well as Periyar city bus terminal were found deserted. Only a few government buses were spotted in the bus terminal. 
 
 The crowd was less than that on a normal day in the few services operated by the government and private buses. 
 
 Mini buses operating in the city and rural parts were put to use to connect important routes with city, where they were needed the most. 
 
 In addition to the route buses, a few private tourist buses too were operated in the city..
 
 
