LUCKNOW: It was an embarrassing moment for at least 15 newly wed girls in   district when they found that the silver jewellery gifted to them in the state-sponsored wedding ceremony were fake. 

 The revelation came to fore on Tuesday when the girls went to local jewellers to find out the worth of ornaments given to them. As per reports, silver items given to them as part of the gift - 'payal'(anklet) and 'bichhiya - were found to be made of iron. The girls felt cheated more so because these items are considered of extreme religious and emotional importance. 
 
 The girls were among 48 who married on February 18 in a ceremony organised by the Auraiya district administration under UP government's 'samukhik Vivah Yojana', a scheme launched by Yogi adityanath government to hold group weddings to discourage the tradition of dowry. As per director, backward welfare department, Om Prakash Rajbhar, "the scheme, which covers girls from backward classes and poor families, entails an allocation of Rs 35000 per wedding. As per rules, Rs 20,000 is transferred to the account of the   while Rs 5000 is spent for organising the ceremony while the remaining Rs 10,000 is to be used on clothes and gifts." The gift items normally include mangal sutra, toe-rings, anklets, two sets of sarees, a sewing machine and a hamper of 11 utensils among other things. Eight days after the wedding ceremony, six of the 15 girls Rachna Kumari, Sarbeen, Pinki, Yasmin bano,   and   gave a written complaint to the district magistrate Shrikant Mishra. Taking a note of the matter, Mishra got the compliant verified. 
 
 "The girls were proved right when we got the jewellery tested by a local jeweller. Thus, an FIR has been lodged against the supplier. Besides, a probe has been ordered to investigate how the   made it to the gift for girls. The role of district social welfare department is also being assessed," Mishra said.
 
 The DM also said that an Etawah-based firm had been selected through e-tendering process to supply the gift box. The faulty jewellery has been taken back from the girls as evidence. District social welfare officers   told reporters that the firm has been black-listed and its payment had been stopped. 
 
 
