Nagpur: Members of   Cooperative Credit Society should take up new challenges and make efforts to keep themselves technologically updated, said social worker Girish Gandhi on Thursday.

 Speaking at the platinum jubilee celebrations of the society, Gandhi asked the members to stand on an equal footing with other government departments. Commenting on current scenario of the printing press where technology still lags behind, he said, “The quality of our products is not up to the mark and the private sector delivers better output. Our machines are not advanced and we have still not adopted modern techniques. Members should approach the higher authorities and pitch for implementation of new methods so that they make profits,” he said.
 
 According to him, Government Press in Nagpur should have made progress by leaps and bounds by now considering the prime location at Zero Mile. Unfortunately, the present scenario is exactly opposite with new recruitments coming to a standstill, leading to decline in employment ratio. He insisted on adopting human resources management techniques to improve efficiency of employees and sharpen their expertise. 
 
 Gandhi advised the young generation to rack their brains and come up with plans that are beneficial to the printing house and not just to help it stay afloat. They should try to boost productivity. Increasing digitalisation is hampering the growth of Government Printing Press as most of the people are switching to online means for official documents, he said.
 
 Member Sreedhar Tarade said, “Previously we used to receive hard copies of samples to be printed which were then sent to the proof reading department for scrutiny. Now, we are given orders to simply print the file from pen drive or e-mails which is adversely affecting the workflow at the reading department.” 
 
 “Switch over to EVM machines from ballot papers during elections has badly affected the business,” he added. 
 
 Ravindra Durugkar, president of Gandhibagh Sahakari Bank, gave information about new benefit schemes for employees and hinted at lowering the rate of interest. 
 
 Gandhi also felicitated members of the society.
 
 
