CHENNAI: Several senior scientists, including Nobel laureates and Padma awardees, besides national science academies, have appealed to the people of Tamil Nadu to support the setting up of   (INO) proposed to come up in   district in south Tamil Nadu, assuring that all environmental regulations will be adhered to and there was no need for residents to be relocated for the project. 

 “It is absolutely safe and would not affect either the environment or the water table,” they said. The appeal comes in the wake of protests by local residents, activists and political parties after the   gave its nod for the project recently. Incidentally, MDMK chief Vaiko is on a padayatra against setting up of the lab in Theni.
 
 The signatories of the appeal include Nobel laureates Arthur McDonald and Takaaki Kajita as well as Padma awardees Ashoke Sen, Ajay Sood, Jogesh Pati, C S Seshadri, JNU professor Ram Ramaswamy and several others. A total of 95 scientists have responded to the appeal. 
 
 Three national science academies, the Indian National Science Academy, New Delhi, the  , Allahabad, and Indian Academy of Sciences, Bengaluru, said, “The INO is purely a scientific research project of fundamental significance.” The science academies have extended their support for the establishment of INO experimental facility for its intrinsic scientific value. 
 
 An appealed drafted by Chennai-based Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc) professors emeriti G Baskaran and T R Govindarajan, said the observatory was initiated two decades ago by Indian high energy physics groups. “The motivation was purely academic and not commercial. It is part of Indian scientific community’s sincere ongoing attempt at a deeper understanding of nature,” said the draft.
 
 The scientists said the lab will have a telescope, built under a hill, to detect billions of neutrinos that are passing through us continuously without any effect. “The INO proposal is the creation of a large number of dedicated Indian high energy physics researchers with several universities and research centres taking part. This project is feasible and will bring back active experimental neutrino research that was given up by the science communities in the late 1980s”, said the appeal.
 
 It warned that any further delay in setting up the lab will affect the future generation of young research students, particularly from South India. “Already more than a decade has been lost. Immediate acceptance of this proposal will enthuse a lot of researchers and students, mainly from Tamil Nadu,” said the scientists. They appealed to political groups and state government to give approval to the programme and support it.
 
 The science academies in a joint statement said the INO experiment was a pure science experiment that will lead to creation of a new Inter-Institutional Educational and Research Centre for high energy physics in Madurai. “These benefits are not just for the short term: the INO is one of a set of major experiments that can consolidate our position as a leading scientific nation,” they said.
 
 The site selected in Bodi West Hills has been chosen after an extensive nationwide site survey. “In addition to enabling Indian researchers to make a unique contribution to our understanding of several fundamental problems of physics, a major effort on this scale will also contribute significantly to the development of education and research infrastructure in Tamil Nadu,” the statement said.
 
 
