PUNE: Barely three to four teenagers in the age group of 16-18 applied for driving licence in the 2017-18 fiscal, prompting a dip in the total number of learners’ licences issued by the Pune regional transport office.

 The officials of regional transport office (RTO) attributed the significant drop in the number of applications for gearless 50cc vehicles’ licences to the introduction of the norm of providing the registration number of the vehicle to be used by the applicant.
 
 Underage candidates are issued licenses only for gearless 50cc vehicles. These are hardly manufactured anymore. An RTO official said many parents made their children apply for licences in the above category so that the latter could drive any two-wheeler.
 
  
 Pune deputy RTO Sanjay Raut told TOI, “Last year, we issued   only to three to four persons in the 16 to 18 age group. Under the Motor Vehicles Act, people in the above age group can get a learners’ licence for a vehicle below 50cc.” 
 
 He said, “Up to 2016-17, quite a few people used to apply for the licence though two-wheelers of the above power are seldom manufactured now. Last year, we started a system under which applicants were asked to provide the registration number of the vehicle to be used by them. As we expected, the numbers dropped drastically. We came to know that most of the parents of these teenagers agreed to their demand for the licence under pressure.” 
 
 Another RTO official said the parents of those seeking such licences were called for verification in some cases. “The teenagers want to drive and the parents agree so that they can go for their tuitions and do household jobs. Parents should buy them battery operated two-wheelers, if they want to drive. They should understand that strict action is taken against parents too if underage children are caught driving vehicles they are not supposed to drive. In one such case in  , the court fined a parent Rs10,000 for the offence and made him sit in the court for the day,” the official added.
 
 In 2017, the Pune police dealt with 610 cases of minors driving two-wheelers and a fine of Rs3.05 lakh was imposed on them. From January 1 to March 22 this year, the police registered 124 cases and Rs62,000 was collected as fine. “In majority of the cases, the teenagers were caught driving without any licence,” a police official said.
 
 Flouting traffic norms is a menace in the city. From jumping signals to speeding or wrong-side driving, road rules are bent left, right and centre. The RTO’s new norm of asking the driving licence applicants in the age group of 16-18 the registration number of the vehicles to be used would partially put a cap on underage driving.
 
 
