THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ahead of the 10-day-long Painguni fest at Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple from March 23, the ceremonial ‘Mannuneerkoral’ will be held on March 17. Work is also on to spruce up the temple ponds, to construct roofing structure to offer shade to the visiting devotees. Security will be strengthened by installing around 150 surveillance cameras.

 “Conservation measures will be to upkeep the heritage precinct and temple ecosystem. Roofing structures will be laid to offer shade to the devotees so that they need not wait in the scorching sun. A pathway will be laid connecting North gopuram to Thiruvambadi nada,” said temple executive officer V Ratheesan. In addition, an information centre and a toilet complex will be set up near the north gate. It is also planned to ensure solid waste management, food residues will be converted to fertilisers and dried flowers will be used for making agarbathis, he said.
 
 As part of the Padmatheertham pond cleansing work, de-watering is complete in the first phase and now stone pavements are laid around with restoration of bathing ghats, he said, after the inspection visit to the pond with Nirmithi Kendra officials and temple police security personnel led by chief security officer. For temple pond restoration works, the government has set aside Rs 5 crore and now the second phase work has begun.
 
 “It is also planned to strengthen the temple security with 150 more surveillance cameras to be installed in the permissible area around the temple periphery. It is also proposed to set up shamiyaanas with security gadgets outside the temple entry gates. Instead of the digital multi-function detector (DMFD) scanners inside the temple, it is planned to install DMFD scanners outside the entry gates of the temple,” he said. 
 
 “There is no point if an explosive material is brought in and gets blasted, instead it has to be prevented outside the temple entry gate,” Ratheesan said explaining the reason behind ensuring security gadgets and scanners outside temple entry.
 
 Part of the restoration work at the temple will be completed by March 23 and it will be halted till the completion of the 10-day-long   at the Temple here from March 23 with a Kodiyettu or ceremonial flag hoisting. 
 
 The royal family head of erstwhile Travancore will lead the procession for the arattu carrying the ceremonial sword and wearing the traditional green cap. The male members of royal family of Travancore will escort the deities in the procession and devotees line up to offer their prayers to the deities. The arattu or holy bath ceremony of the idols in the sea at the   marks the end of the festivities. Then the idols will be taken back to the temple.
 
 
