MUMBAI: A labourer was arrested on Thursday for allegedly murdering the   at a construction site in   and fleeing with his   and mobile phone. Within half an hour of the   on May 4, the accused, Shadab alias Rahul (33), withdrew Rs 30,000 from the victim’s bank account in three transactions from an   kiosk in BKC, said the police. He later withdrew Rs 35,000 in two transactions—one in Nashik and the other in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh—taking the total to Rs 65,000.

 
 “Manoj Singh (24), who was in charge of over 250 labourers, had a separate room at the construction site,” said an officer from BKC police station. “On May 4, around 1pm, Singh was having lunch alone in his room. A few hours later, some   came to talk to him, but found the room locked. They alerted other supervisors at the site, who informed the police.” When the police broke open the door, they found Singh lying on the floor bleeding from the head and a 3-ft iron rod next to him. He was taken to hospital where he was pronounced ‘brought dead’. “He was hit at least six times of the head with the iron rod,” said the officer.
 
 Zonal DCP Anil Kumbhare formed a team, led by senior inspector Kalpana Gadekar, comprising officers Sagar Shivalkar, Pradeep Khanvilkar and Bhagwant Garande. “We questioned all labourers and found one labourer, Shadab, missing. During investigation, we found that Singh’s debit card, mobile phone and some other belongings were missing,” said the officer. “When we checked Singh’s debit card records, we found five transactions were made in three days—three in BKC on the day of the murder, one in Nashik and one in Jabalpur.” CCTV footage from the ATM kiosk at BKC showed Shadab withdrawing the money. “We picked him up from his residence in Jharkhand and recovered Singh’s phone and debit card,” said the police officer. 
 
 During interrogation, Shadab told the police that last month he had accompanied Singh to an ATM kiosk and had seen the latter’s debit card PIN. “Since then, I was trying to steal his card. I got my chance on May 4, when all labourers went for lunch. I entered Singh’s room, hit him repeatedly with an iron rod, stole his card and phone and fled,” Shadab reportedly told the BKC police. 
 
