GURUGRAM: Health officials have instructed General Hospital, Civil Lines, to not refer patients and newborns from gyneacology and pediatrics wing to other hospitals, after three cases of negligence in delivering babies within five days. Notably, over 1,100 patients from the hospital’s gynecology ward were referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital in 2017. However, this tendency of doctors has led to three emabarassing emergency situations in a week, this February.

 On February 9, a 25-year-old woman delivered a baby girl outside the gate of the emergency ward in General Hospital, Civil Lines. The woman was asked to get an ultrasound done despite being in labour. For the ultrasound test, she was asked to produce her Aadhar card, which she was not carrying. This resulted in delay and she delivered a baby girl in the open courtyard near the cycle stand.
 
 The very next day, a baby boy was delivered in the hospital at around 10am. However, the doctors and nurses in the operation theatre overlooked the physical deformity in the baby. As per rule, they are supposed to conduct a thorough physical examination before handing over the newborn to attendants. At around 1:30pm, the baby started crying due to discomfort and it was revealed that his ears were lopsided. The doctors referred the baby to Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, where it was revealed he also had cardiovascular disease. He is currently undergoing treatment.
 
 On February 14, a 23-year pregnant woman delivered a baby in an ambulance. The woman was infected with Hepatitis B. As per government guidelines, such a woman should always get a cesarean to cut down transmission of infection from the mother to the child. The woman had arrived at General Hospital with labour pain but to avoid the procedure, the doctor on duty referred her to Delhi. She was on her way when she delivered a boy near Rajokri at around 5:50am. Salman, an emergency medical technician, and Rajvir, the driver in the ambulance, helped in the delivery. Besides the discomfort she experienced and the risks due to delivery in an ambulance, the woman also ended up having a normal delivery.
 
 In all three cases, the   and newborns were lucky to survive. However, to avoid such incidents, chief medical officer Dr B K Rajora has now instructed that no pregnant women and babies would be referred to other hospitals from the gynecology and pediatrics department. “All doctors and medical staff have been asked to receive every pregnant woman through the newly-established Pregnant Woman Reception Room (PWRR). A doctor and nurse will be stationed there at all hours to receive them. They will be taken to wards concerned and put under the care of doctors, depending on their health condition. Also, a newborn will be handed over to attendants only after the baby has been thoroughly examined. The boy who was referred to Delhi is now being registered under the early intervention programme and his medical expenses will be borne by the health department,” said Dr Rajora.
 
 
