BENGALURU: Marriages may be made in heaven, but these days election officials are keeping a close watch on them.

 After the model code of conduct came into effect on March 27, officials are tracking weddings, especially those attended by politicians and their supporters. April and May are considered the peak wedding season. The EC has put all wedding and community halls under watch as such places could be used to distribute freebies to voters.
 
 “Marriage and community halls must obtain prior permission from us for any event involving politicians,’’ said an official at the Karnataka chief electoral office.
 
 There have been reports of some politicians organising ‘fake’ wedding receptions and mass marriages for the poor. Thousands of people flock to such events, lured by badoota (a non-vegetarian spread), free liquor and goodies given to guests.
 
 The Congress, BJP and JD(S) have instructed their candidates to stay away from weddings to avoid election observers adding the cost of the ceremony to their campaign expenditure, where the limit for each candidate is Rs 27 lakh.
 
 A Congress ticket aspirant in Kolar had to give up plans of a mega feast with thousands of people, lest it be seen as an attempt to influence voters, and the bill made part of the party’s campaign expenses.
 
 Fund worries for BPL families
 
 The elections have cast a shadow over the wedding of BPL families as the authorities, citing the poll code, have stopped release of funds from the social welfare and minorities department. The department provides Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh to poor parents to conduct the weddings of their daughters. The scheme also covers widow remarriage. “My parents had been running around for the past few months to arrange my marriage on April 14. But we’re told we won’t get money from the government. We’ll have to do everything all over again,” said Ravi Kumar, a resident of Davanagere.
 
 Clash of dates for groom
 
 Ramesh from Kolar (name changed) had been planning his wedding, but the polls have disrupted his plans. The 26-year-old’s wedding was scheduled for May 12, the day the state goes to the polls. The family has postponed the ceremony. Several weddings have been postponed because of the clash with the polling date. Most families fear inconvenience to the families of the groom or bride as the vehicles may be seized by the administration and there would be limited access to some roads in the city. According to astrologers, May 5 to 16 are auspicious days for weddings. Owners of marriage halls and music bands are also unhappy as April-May are lucrative months for them.
 
 
