

 MUMBAI: Early Sunday morning, as traffic jostled along one carriageway of the busy Linking Road in Bandra, the other carriageway was occupied with   residents and pedestrians focused and ready to claim their right to walk on Equal Streets, an initiative of The Times Of India. 
 
 While most serious walkers continued with their routine, the jovial atmosphere at equal streets remained undisturbed. Twinkle Tharwani, a yoga instructor and gymnast, was in the midst of her sessions.  , her associate, and she were teaching a bunch of 10 participants each session—basic gymnastic exercises along with exercises for conditioning. “We believe that we compete the most with our own selves and so we are using exercises and yoga to make people understand the same thing,” said Bhatnagar. The duo also run a start-up based on a similar theme. 
 
 Given the enthusiasm of her participants, Tharwani said, “Next week, we hope to bring in more instructors who can assist us with teaching our participants.” 
 
 The street ahead was lined up with groups of people laughing, giggling and making chalk graffiti on the road, some of them had travelled from   as well. A distance further, one encountered a small group of children engaged in painting cloth bags in green, red and blue. On enquiry, Namrata Goel, who was conducting the workshop, said that they were making children take an oath for the upcoming World Environment Day to use cloth bags for which, they were teaching them how to paint them. “The aim is to facilitate consciousness into children since children learn best when they are able to make sense of their surroundings and understand their community.” 
 
 Among them, were two engineering aspirants from Pace Junior College—Naman Mohite and Lakshita Shetty—who had taken time off from their schedules. “We love walking, but rarely find the time to walk due to our study schedules,” said Mohite. “A place like Equal Streets is a luxury for us. We make time to come here on Sundays.” 
 
 Shetty added, “We really don’t have to worry about hawkers, uneven footpaths or cars while we are walking.” As the deadline for Equal Streets approaches, the crowd starts waning out, with many people eagerly waiting to come next Sunday as well.
 
