NAGPUR: Chief national badminton coach   said India needed to revive the culture of physical literacy rather than focus too much on alphabetical or numerical literacy.

 
 
 The badminton legend was speaking at the inauguration of   at Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur, here on Sunday.
 
 “We had given lot of importance to literacy in the last 50 years. We had always said everyone should learn and read. At the same time we forgot the importance of physical literacy where everyone should play. One should talk to one’s own body by doing something with the body,” said Gopichand.
 
 He said it was time to revive the physical literacy in India that was prevailing earlier. “For learning, alphabets, words and sentences are important and the sequel is known as alphabetical literacy. Similarly, crawling, walking, running, throwing, jumping and balancing is called physical literacy. In the last 40-50 years the focus was on literacy but time has come to change that,” said Gopi.
 
 He said such programmes would inspire all of us to regain physical literacy in India. The Dronacharya awardee said   were not everything and time had come to promote our own traditional sports.
 
 “Every country promotes its own sports. Nations that have plenty of big grounds, they mostly play cricket or golf. We don’t have that luxury. Therefore sports like yoga, malkhamb, hockey and wrestling were very popular among us in earlier years. These are our traditional games. The common thread among these sports is it requires less equipment, less area and less money,” said Gopi, who came to city after attending selection committee meeting at New Delhi.
 
 He said there was no dearth of talent in our nation and it was important to provide kids enough opportunities by organizing sporting events regularly.
 
 "This event should encourage every MP and MLA to conduct sports in their respective region. It would not only give chance to every youngster to participate in their favourite sports but also create a positive energy among the society. I thank Gadkari for organizing such a big sports festival in Nagpur. Several new talents will emerge from this meet,” said Gopi, who was all praise for the local performers of the cultural event held at the start of the function.
 
 Convener of the Khasdar Krida Mahotsav Sandip Joshi and   ( ) vice-president Arun Lakhani were also present during the function.
 
 
