THANE: The first phase of the inland   route linking Vasai-Thane-Kalyan has received an in-principle approval from the department of Union surface transport and waterways paving way for the Thane Corporation to start work towards making it operational.

 The   for the project followed a presentation about the latest developments on the project by TMC commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal on Tuesday to Nitin Gadkari, union minister of surface transport and waterways in the presence of Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde at a closed door meeting in Mumbai. The approval comes close on the heels of Jaiswal recently announcing that 54km-long inland water   could be made operational by December 2018. 
 
 Gadkari has instructed the TMC to form a special purpose vehicle along with the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) and the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) for executing the project costing Rs 661crore. Of the approved amount, Rs 511cr will be spent on construction of jetties at the halts enroute while the rest will be spent on purchasing necessary boats or catamarans.
 
 “We made a presentation before the Union minister and he has given his in-principle approval for the project. The estimated cost of the project is now Rs 661 crore including the cost of constructing jetties and purchasing boats for transport,” said an official present for the meeting.
 
 The first phase of the waterways route will link Kalyan to Vasai,   route via Thane. The water route will have approximately nine stop overs in either directions. The ministry has okayed the construction of jetties at   fort, Jesal park at Mira Bhayenser, Ghodbunder, Naglabunder, Kalher Bhiwandi, Parsik Retibunder, Anjur Dive, Dombivli and Kalyan with Kolshet to be transformed into a multi-modal hub.
 
 Officials say the mode will help a lot in reducing the pollution problems or delays often caused due to road travel. The present travel time of nearly three hours required to reach the two destinations in addition to the multiple mode of transport required will be cut down to just 70 minutes through the waterway. The first phase will have only passenger boats while a roll-on roll-off facility including freight could be added later on, informed an officer.
 
 
