NEW DELHI: The   will have to purchase 4,368 buses by the end of the year after the Centre accepted and notified the Supreme Court-approved comprehensive action plan to deal with pollution in the national capital region (NCR). According to the action plan, the bus fleet of the capital should be 10,000 by December to encourage people to use public transport.

 The Centre told an SC bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta on Thursday that it had notified the plan prepared by the Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) and agreed to implement it within the fixed time frame. Additional solicitor general A N S Nadkarni, appearing for the ministry of environment and forests, told the court that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had been asked to pass directions to different authorities to enforce the plan.
 
 The Centre has also set an April deadline to make the Eastern and Western Expressways around Delhi operational.
 
  
  
 
 The comprehensive plan to combat debilitating pollution in Delhi and its neighbourhood contains measures to be taken by various authorities in a time-bound manner, among them increasing the number of buses in the national capital to 10,000 by the end of 2018.
 
 Currently, there are 4,020 buses in the DTC fleet and the Delhi Integrated Multi-Model Transit System (DIMTS) runs another 1,612 buses under the cluster bus scheme to ferry more than 32 lakh passengers every day.
 
 DTC buses form the backbone of the public transport system as they carry more passengers every day than the Delhi Metro. Despite the demand for more buses, there has been no addition to DTC’s fleet in the last couple of years. However, there has been some augmentation in the cluster bus services managed by DIMTS.
 
 The SC bench asked the Centre not to focus solely on Delhi’s pollution as many cities in the country were more polluted than the national capital. “Patna and Raipur are more polluted than Delhi. What are you proposing to do for the rest of the country? Each city has to be treated differently,” the bench said.
 
 Nadkarni told the bench that the Centre was alive to the pollution problem of other cities and plans for them would be formulated soon.
 
 The Centre did not accept two points in the action plan — implementation of BS VI norm and imposing a pollution cess on SUVs run on diesel which would be decided by the court.
 
 According to the plan, more monitoring stations were needed in NCR to keep tabs on air quality. It also stressed on strengthening the public transport system to encourage people to use buses and Metro. The report said urgent steps were needed to make Delhi’s air breathable and to meet national air quality standards.
 
 “According to the 2009 national ambient air quality standards, the daily and hourly standards for pollutants must be met 98% of the time in a year and they should not exceed the standards on two consecutive days. Delhi will have to reduce PM10 levels by 74%, PM 2.5 by 70% and nitrogen dioxide by 37.5% to meet the standards. Similarly, key NCR cities and towns need significant reductions to meet the   standards,” it said.
 
