GREATER NOIDA: A 55-year-old woman was killed when her nephew fired around 12-13 gunshots in   during a wedding ceremony in Shadipur Chidoli village of   on Wednesday.

 Sadaam (28) fired in the air around 9.30am when the wedding procession of his cousins Firoz and Nadeem was preparing to leave the village for Dostpur in Baghpat, where their wedding was scheduled to be solemnised.
 
 According to the sources, as the DJ played loud music, Sadaam took out an illegal country-made pistol and fired indiscriminately in the air. Some villagers were allegedly drunk during the ceremony.
 
 “There were around 100 people who had gathered to see the grooms. Many relatives and friends were busy in dancing and merry-making. As the DJ played the song ‘Tamanche pe disco’, suddenly Sadaam started firing bullets and one of those bullets hit his mother’s sister Ikrar Begum,” Aslam, a villager, said.
 
 Ikrar was killed on the spot. The shooting brought an abrupt halt to the celebrations and the music was soon replaced by wails.
 
 After receiving the information, police arrived at the spot and sent the body for postmortem. However, Sadaam fled with the help of his family before cops reached the spot.
 
 The death divided the family as Sadaam’s kin tried to stop any police proceedings. A group of women from Ikrar’s family, including one of her sister, got into heated arguments with the youths who had come to attend the wedding of the brothers.
 
 “You do not know what has happened. I have lost my sister,” screamed a relative to a group of youths sitting outside Ikrar’s house.
 
 Mukesh Kumar, SHO of Badalpur told TOI an FIR has been lodged against Sadaam under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. The pistol used in the crime is yet to be seized. “Sections of the Arms Act will also be added when the weapon is recovered,” said Kumar.
 
 The SSP has now released phone numbers of the city control room 8800199955 and PCR numbers 9454417376 and 9870395052 and appealed to the public to inform police if a DJ performance or any music system is being played loudly after 10 pm.
 
 
