MUMBAI: The prosecution strongly opposed the anticipatory bail plea of absconding Mojo’s Bistro director   in the   fire case on Thursday. The court will pronounce its order on Friday.

 In a four-page reply submitted through Prakash  , the newly appointed special public prosecutor in the case, the police said despite not having a smoking zone on the premises, hookah was being served at Mojo’s illegally to attract customers. Tuli had entered into a contract with another party for carrying out the hookah parlour on the establishment and his custodial interrogation was necessary to investigate this. “You can’t have just love for money; love for people and their safety is very important,” said Shetty, opposing the plea.
 
 The hookah parlour contract was given to Nirvaana and during investigation, the employees preparing hookah on the premises said embers from the hookah coal flew off because of fans and started the fire at Mojo’s Bistro, the police said.
 
 The prosecution said Tuli had knowledge that such fanning and flying embers could lead to a fire and risk the lives of the patrons, and it establishes his complicity in the crime. Prima facie, Tuli could not absolve himself of his responsibility as the hookah parlour was being run illegally and he knew that. Further, it said, Tuli’s negligence towards the establishment and its business was also established.
 
 Cops said a case was registered with the N M Joshi Marg on November 20, 2017, under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) and action taken against manager Yashwant Bugade and a waiter for consuming and serving hookah. Time and again, action has been taken against the premises for flouting rules and conditions, the prosecution added.
 
 Contrary to Tuli’s claim that he is one among many directors, official records show there were only two partners and owners of Mojo’s and Tuli was one of them. The police also said Tuli had not cooperated with the investigations. Moreover, there were several illegal alterations on the premises, including an illegal partition, and they needed to interrogate him to identify the contractor.
 
 Referring to arrested director  , the prosecution said his questioning has revealed that Tuli’s family was in the hospitality business and he was well aware of the nitty-gritty of the business. Pathak had said that several licences needed for starting the bar were procured by Tuli and this needed to be probed. It added that it was necessary to question both Pathak and Tuli together as the former was giving evasive answers.
 
 Shetty added that being recently married cannot be grounds for relief for Tuli. Victim Parul Lakdawala’s husband too submitted a reply through advocate Satish Maneshinde, opposing the plea, citing Tuli’s influence and the possibility of tampering with evidence.
 
 Tuli’s advocate   said the fire report, the basis for the case against Tuli, was based on information received from social media accounts, which had no credibility. “Anyone can open such accounts and say anything they want,” he said.
 
