PATIALA: A day after 16 teachers, including the principal of government school at   in Patiala district, were transferred amid inquiries into allegations of caste discrimination by a dalit girl, the victim’s family has demanded action and registration of a police case against the accused.

 The victim’s family, who claim to be living in fear at their house in Rampur Shahiwal village, allege the accused and other villagers had announced their boycott from Gurdwara Sahib on January 11, when several dalit unions were on protest march in Patiala over the issue. The family members claimed discrimination at the hands of some upper caste men in the village, saying they were once refused supply of drinking water which they used to take from some villagers. 
 
 The girl’s father Hari Singh claimed the boycott was announced to pressurize them over the issue. “The boycott was announced at the behest of Bobby Singh, Bachittar Singh and a local   worker Beant Singh. They claimed that the village is being defamed because of us, for which they also abuse us. Some upper caste men in the village gather around our house whenever someone visits us regarding the discrimination issue. There are some in the village who believe that study in the school is being affected because of us. The Gurdwara Sahib is in the centre of the village while our house is near the school at Tohra village.” 
 
 The 17-year-old girl, a topper in her school, had alleged discrimination for a long time and was even thrashed by upper-caste boys after she refused to help them cheat in a class X board exam in April last year. 
 
 “Our ordeal began after we lodged a police complaint over the thrashing of my daughter by her upper caste classmates in May last year. We used to borrow drinking water from some upper caste men in the village. Angry after our complaint, the landlords refused us water during peak summer months. We faced really tough few weeks before social worker Kuldip Singh came to our rescue and he got a water pump installed in our house. 
 
 “Later, we even entered into a compromise with students who had assaulted my daughter after she refused to help them cheat in exams. We did the same with the school teachers, who had made casteist remarks against my daughter. The school principal had even placed his turban at my feet in front of the police at police station,” Hari told TOI.
 
 “As the discrimination against my daughter did not end in school, we filed another complaint with the Punjab SC Commission in November last year. The accused principal, clerk and three teachers besides those students who had thrashed my daughter should be booked and the staff members involved in discrimination should be suspended,” he added. 
 
 Rampur Shahiwal village sarpanch’s husband Hans Raj feigned ignorance about the boycott of the dalit family but admitted that the family should get justice.
 
 Gurdwara Sahib head granthi Vikram Singh, too, denied making any announcement for boycott, saying: “I had just made a simple announcement, that villagers gather at a common place when cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot visited the village. My own son studies in the school.”
 
 Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Welfare Federation generation secretary Jatinder Singh Mattu said, “The victim’s family is facing boycott in their own village.”
 
 According to Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit the “transfers have been done by the DEO to ensure that the school environment remains hassle-free”.
 
 Takht’s 5-member committee fails to hold meeting
 
 Taking cognizance of the case of alleged casteist remarks, Akal   jathedar Gurbachan Singh on Saturday formed a committee to look into the matter. The panel, members SGPC member Satwinder Singh Tohra, Markfed ex-GM Balwinder Singh, Gurdwara Baba Ajaypal Singh Nabha preacher   and Patiala-based Gurdwara Sahib Dukh Nivaran head granthi and manager, was to hold a meeting on Sunday. However, none was held.
 
 SGPC member Satwinder Singh Tohra said, “We will hold a meeting by tomorrow (Monday) and submit the report to Sri   Sahib jathedar soon.” 
 
 
