MANGALURU: Expressing concern over   or in their free time in school, the   has sent a circular to all   to   and, if needed, install public telephone coin boxes in schools.

 The January 1, 2018 circular states that teachers must dedicate their entire time in school to quality teaching. The state government has repeatedly told teachers in a series of letters not to use cellphones in school. Despite that, it’s learnt that teachers were speaking to their bosses during working hours which has been deemed as indiscipline. 
 
 “If anyone wants to convey a message to education officials, they must do it through email or send a written query after school is over and not use cellphones,” the circular states.
 
 
 The rule is applied from Class 1 to 2nd PU teachers, as well as clerical staff. The circular states that cellphones will be confiscated by authorities if anyone carries it to the campus. The school head is exempted from using mobiles outside class and she will be held responsible if anyone else is found them.
 
 
 
 
 To curb usage of cellphones on campus, the circular also stresses forming of an implementation committee which will deal with confiscation of cellphones. It’ll be headed by the school head/ principal, senior teacher and physical teacher.
 
 Their role is to ensure that no one carries cellphones within the campus and educate them about the rule, confiscate phones when the rule is violated and inform higher-ups about it.
 
 Lastly, if there is a need, they should install a coin booth in the campus.
 
 
 
 
 Teachers said all of them should not be punished for the mistakes of a few. “In Dakshina Kannada, there are no instances where teachers have been caught wasting time on cellphones instead of teaching kids. We live in a technological era. Banning cellphones during class is welcome but not outside class,” a teacher said.
 
 Official speak
 
 We have come across some teachers using cellphones during class and free hours. There’s no official complaint against anyone. It is OK to cellphones for academic purposes.
 
 Y Shivaramaiah | DDPI, DK
 
 
