Mappilapattu reverberates from the ashramam of Father Severios Thomas at Anikkadu, Pathanamthitta. With his passionate rendition of mailanjipattukal in his mellifluous voice, in a way he is breaking religious norms and blending art and love. 

 In between singing Malabar’s famous mappila songs that capture the joy and sorrow, hope and despair of common man, the   says, “I love singing ishals of mailanjipattu as I believe they bring great delight to those around me. Each line of these songs holds ethos and triggers emotions.”
 
 Fr Severios’ tryst with mappilapattu began when he was studying in Class 10. “When my neighbour, Benny chettan heard me singing, he told me that my voice would be ideal for mappilappattu. He introduced me to the world of mappilapattu through audio cassettes and I soon fell in love with the intricacies of its tune, mood and rhythm. It touched my heart; the language is so simple and pure,” he recollects. 
 
 Coming from a musical family,  , who is a native of Prayar, Chengannur, fell in love with the genre. “I used to be part of church choir back then, and I also started singing at wedding functions and parties. Everybody started admiring my efficiency in rendering mappilapattu,” he narrates.
 
 After two years, he got ‘the divine call’ and joined the ashramam to become a priest. “I continued singing but not mappilappattu,” says Fr Severios, who has brought out three Christian devotional albums. However, his love for mappilapattu remained intact.
 
 
 
 Things changed when his video, singing a mappilapattu during a get-together went viral in October 2017. “I became popular online. That was when my superiors realised my talent. I was appreciated and was supported by them,” he says. The humble priest didn’t have to look back since then. In the past three months, he has conducted more than 25 stage shows in the Middle East and India. “While I performed Christian devotional songs in our church at Ras Al Khaimah, I sung mappilapattu at family meets and Malayalis’ get-togethers,” he says, with a smile. The remuneration from the shows is given to the ashramam which is being used for charity purposes. “I am getting a lot of invitations from Malabar, especially Malappuram. I am unable to go for all as I have my responsibilities at the ashramam,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 The priest, who loves the fast numbers in mailanjipattu especially Moinkutty Vaidyar’s songs, divulges that he is overwhelmed by the love and affection of the people from the Muslim community. “I have no words to express my happiness when they address me as ‘njangalude achan’,” he says, while adding that there are a few in his community who are upset about him singing mappilapattu.
 
 “I was delighted to see that there were no negative comments posted under my viral videos on social media, especially when I have seen many priests facing flak for dancing. However, being part of the Orthodox Suriyani community, I have certain restrictions. Sixty five per cent of my community are taking it positively,” he says.
 
 However, Fr Severios is clear that he doesn’t want to mix art and religion. “Faith is only one aspect of mappilapattu. Though I know that it belongs to the Muslim community, I am focusing on the underlying beautiful art. They are folk songs which are rich in culture, language and emotions. Malabar has many unsung mappilapattu composers and singers like   who believe in the purity of the art form,” he says.
 
 Fr Severios along with a few artistes including   are planning to promote and support such singers across the State. “I am also doing a comparative research on ancient 
 Suriyani songs (kalyanapattukal and mailanjipattukal of Knanaya community) 
 and Malabar’s mappilapattukal,” he says.
 
