Actress   has always believed in living life on her own terms.  , there is pressure — from family and the society — to tread the conventional path and get married, but Sayantani wants to follow her heart. 
She says, “I belong to a middle-class family and till a few years back, my parents were concerned about my marriage. However, over the last two years, they have accepted that it is okay for me to be single till I find someone special. There was a time when I wanted to get married and settle down. I still think marriage is important, but I can’t enter matrimony just because I have a crossed a certain age. I am pretty happy with my life. It is better to enjoy each day then stress about something which is not in your hands.”
 Sayantani, who was rumoured to be in a relationship a few years ago, is disillusioned after seeing so many marriages fall apart. She says, “With relationships failing every day, you don’t want to take the plunge just like that. A certain impatience has crept into modern relationships... Nobody has a perfect marriage, but earlier, people were willing to adjust and compromise. My parents have accepted that I am single and they want me to take a decision only when I feel it from the heart. Getting married is an emotional decision more than anything else. People think that single women are lonely, but if you ask me, I am lonely not because I don’t have a husband; I feel lonely because I don’t have my family living with me. In Mumbai, you can make friends, but you can’t have a consistent friendship because of the long distances. You have to think twice before taking that cab from Andheri to   because of the traffic woes. Back home in  , we meet neighbours, relatives and friends more often, which does not happen here.”
 While personal life is all about living in the moment, professionally, the actress recently wrapped up her track in the show, 'Naamkarann'. Sayantani feels lucky to have been part of the show even after her co-stars’ tracks wrapped up after a time leap. “The makers were trying a different concept and it was Mahesh Bhatt’s story. I am happy that Bhatt saab saw me in that role, but unfortunately, the story did not work with the masses and the makers decided to go for a time leap. People keep cribbing that there is nothing to watch on TV, but when we try something new, they reject it and continue to watch the run-of-the-mill shows.”
 The actress, who has essayed bold roles and is known for her stylish outfits, also had no qualms about playing mother to   on the show. She says, “If given a choice, I would have loved to continue with the show. In fact, for the first time you had a show which had good production values, was shot well and had good music associated with it.”
 
 
