NAGPUR: City police will soon be available for citizens in distress through an app, which is being developed by cyber experts and their software partners. A citizen-oriented quick response security system of police department would be put in place after the initiative named ‘Suraksha app’ is made functional, for which the modalities are being fine tuned.

 Sources in the police department said the app, now at conceptual stage, would help a citizen get police assistance at any place within the shortest possible time. The app would generate an alert at the police control room on being activated by the user. The police control room would divert the closest police vehicle to the location from where the alert has been generated, irrespective of the jurisdiction. This system would complement the existing, traditional ‘100’ for reduction of response time.
 
 An officer close to the developments said the app would be developed in such a way that while an alert would reach the control room, another message would simultaneously land in the mobile phone of the most trusted family member of the user. “At one go, an user can approach police and also his or her family member for help. It would also indicate the location from where the alert has been generated on a digital screen at the control room,” he said.
 
 City police department, under city police chief K   and Jt CP Shivaji Bodkhe, is learnt to have made two other internal functions — leave applications and duty distribution — completely app-based. These two systems,   app (for leave application) and   (for duty distribution), have taken forward the city polices’ digitization efforts ahead of other units.
 
 A cop said ‘Dhruva’ app has made it possible for personnel, whether constable or an officer, to file a leave application from his or her mobile phone, from wherever he is. The application would reach the senior PI or unit in-charge of the applicant for sanction. If the application is rejected, the unit in-charge would need to furnish an explanation through the app.
 
 The MD Police app has now made it possible for cops to get details of the allotted duty or responsibility on mobile phone. The alerts come with the mention of the time and place of the duty allotted. “Irrespective of ranks, a cop gets an alert on mobile phone app nowadays regarding their duty, which has ensured efficiency and transparency in the system,” said a senior officer.
 
 
