CHANDIGARH: Family members and relatives of a BCA third-year student, who allegedly committed suicide on Sunday evening, created ruckus in Postgraduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, on Monday, alleging she was murdered and demanded the registration of an FIR (first information report) against the college authorities.

 Bhawna Vig, who hailed from  , had allegedly hanged herself with a duppata from a ceiling fan in the hostel room of a friend.
 
 At the college, her family members thrashed a staff member and manhandled DSP (south division) Deepak Kumar and other cops. Police were forced to call extra men to control the angry protesters, who later sat on a dharna on the college premises. They called off their protest after being provided with a copy of DDR (daily diary report) from Sector 36 police station. They were also assured that erring college officials would be booked.
 
 Relatives said they thrashed the college staffer as he was “trying to remove a CCTV camera from the gate”. When they objected, he allegedly pushed Bhawna’s mother and ran away. It was then they thrashed him, family members said.
 
 Rakesh Vig, father of Bhawna, said they submitted a written complaint to the Sector 36 police station demanding an FIR against college principal and hostel warden, as “both are responsible for his daughter’s death”. Rakesh alleged his daughter was murdered and then hanged in her friend’s hostel room.
 
 College principal  , however, termed the allegations baseless. The college provided the CCTV footage and details regarding the student’s death to the police, Dogra said.
 
 The parents also accused the college authorities of informing them late about the incident. The family was told about the death at 7 pm — Bhawna’s body was found at 5.30pm. “Even the house of the local guardian of Bhawna is a 10-minute drive from the college, but he was not informed about the incident,” Rakesh alleged.
 
 The parents said Bhawna was the eldest of two sisters and a bright student. She got 85% in Class XII in commerce and secured more than 90% in Class X. She wanted to pursue MCA after completing BCA. She had already started taking coaching for MCA. Recently, her father had sold a plot for the studies of their daughters.
 
 The DSP said, “Police are scrutinizing the CCTV footage of hostel and college premises. We are investigating the case from all angles. If anybody is found guilty, stern action will be taken against him or her,” he said. 
 
 Later in the day, the body was handed over to family members after post-mortem. They returned to Ambala in the evening.
 
 
