MUMBAI: They are separated by bars, and jails, and though joined as alleged conspirators in the Sheena Bora murder case, prime accused   has now moved to end her ties of matrimony with   Mukerjea. Indrani sprung a surprise on current husband and co-accused Peter by seeking to serve him with a notice for an amicable, mutual consent divorce.

 
 “It was a love marriage,” the notice states. It asks Peter to agree to a mutual consent divorce by complying with the financial settlement already drawn up. The settlement plan would include dividing properties and assets, including properties in Spain and London, and bank fixed deposits and other financial investments in domestic and foreign banks.
 
 The two-page notice was sent by Indrani through her advocate   on Thursday via speed-post to Peter, who is in   jail.
 
 
 
 
 Amit Ghag, Peter’s lawyer, when contacted later, said he was not aware of any such notice being sent or received (a notice is considered served when received).
 
 On Thursday, the accused trio, which includes Indrani’s ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna, appeared in court before special   judge for their trial. The Mukerjeas sat next to each other, Indrani in the middle, between one ex-husband and one perhaps soon to be ex. They said nothing to each other. The notice to Peter says he and Indrani were married under the Special Marriage Act on November 8, 2002 and as per Hindu rituals on November 10, 2002 at Marlow, Worli, in flat number 18.
 
 “My client states that there are no issues from said wedlock. And the marriage has been irretrievably broken down and there is no chance of reconciliation,’’ it adds. It also says “this fact has been acknowledged’’ by Peter, “calls upon” him “to execute the agreed amicable financial settlement no later than April 30” and wants him to “proceed to dissolve the marriage by mutual consent.”
 
 “Neither party will file either civil or criminal proceedings against each other in respect of the divorce proceedings,” the notice says. “My client has instructed to call upon you to concur with filing the divorce proceedings by mutual consent.
 
