Nagpur: Though the Centre has announced new health cover of Rs 5 lakh for 10 crore families in the budget, the beneficiaries in the state are likely to get an even greater coverage, if local health officials are to be believed. As per the announcement, the existing centrally sponsored health insurance scheme ‘Rashtriya Samaj Beema Yojna’ (RSBY) offers Rs 35,000 to APL, BPL and other low-income groups, will be replaced by the new national health protection scheme. In that 10 crore families will get Rs 5 lakh per year to cover secondary and tertiary hospital expenses. In 2012, state had already stopped using RSBY introducing its own health cover of Rs 1.5 lakh under the name Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana, which was later transformed into Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (JPJAY). Nagpur district coordinator of the scheme Dr Dhiraj Wasekar said, “At present, JPJAY is also in the process of being revised. The state has given one year to a committee to make decision and formulate the policy for increasing the health cover and include packages like knee and hip replacements which were earlier not covered. The new scheme will also cover media persons having accreditation.” Now that the central government has announced a much bigger health cover than JPJAY, state is rethinking on its initial plan of revising it. Wasekar said, “I think the state will be launching its own health cover utilizing centre’s contribution going by the ratio of 7:3. It is likely the ultimate cover will be more than Rs 5 lakh.” The announcement of setting up 24 new Government Medical College (GMC) is not being taken positively by the officials of existing GMCH. A senior professor from GMCH said, “The plan is not real. Considering the condition of existing GMCs, the government should learn a lesson and take opinion of academicians and existing faculty rather than bureaucrats before form such a plan.” The professor said, “At present, GMCH here does not have sufficient faculty, due to which it is unable to have PG seats. Everybody is interested in bulk purchase irrespective of requirement. Advanced equipment is given to GMCH but there is no trained person to use it.” Reacting to the announcement of upgrading the existing district civil hospitals into GMCs, another professor said, “The state may not be in a position to execute such a plan unless the bifurcated medical education department and state public health department are combined into one, all over again.” As per Indian Medical Association (IMA), the move to open 1.5 lakh health and wellness centres is appreciable. However, meagre allocation of Rs1200 crore translates to only Rs 80,000 per centre. Still IMA promises to support this move in a PPP model.  KB Tumane, nodal officer (TB) of NMC, said, “Government’s move to support TB patients with Rs 500 per month during the course of their treatment was much needed. Those patients come from poor families and this amount is meant to provide them nutritious food while they get free treatment and medication from government.”