KOCHI: Declared a no-horn zone on Thursday amidst much fanfare,   Road was back to its high-decibel self on Friday.

 Unimpressed by the turn of events, the Kochi   Rail Ltd (KMRL) chief, A P M Mohammed Hanish, who launched the initiative, said he would call a meeting of the stakeholders to prepare a sustainable action plan to ensure that it becomes a reality.
 
 Regional transport office admits that the main hurdle for implementing the decision is that it is more of a moral responsibility than a legal binding. 
 
 “We cannot legally enforce it as there is no provision to slap fines on violators. The police can enforce no honking at the high court area because there is a legal provision. They also enforce the no-horn zone next to City Hospital, which falls on the stretch,” said RTO Reji P Varghese.
 
 Shebir Khadir M, who runs a shop in the no-horn zone between Madhava Pharmacy Junction and Maharaja's College Metro station said, “I have been paying extra attention to see if there would be any difference because of the announcement yesterday. Now, my head is paining because I am constantly paying attention to the honking sound, which is same as ever.”
 
 On Tuesday, Hanish had declared a part of the MG Road as no-horn zone as part of the Indian Medical Association’s campaign in association with KMRL, Kochi city police and motor vehicles department ( ). 
 
 While the MVD suggested that the police could impose fine on violators next to the hospital, police said the   should install signboards to spread awareness.
 
 On Thursday, student police cadet members were seen along the stretch, spreading awareness about the hazards of noise pollution, but on Friday, there was no such activity.
 
 “The students cannot stand out there every day, it is too hot. But it very important that we pursue this initiative constantly otherwise it will not work. I would be calling a meeting with the voluntary organization to see what we can do to make this campaign a success,” said Hanish.
 
 “Taxis and autos are on the road most of the time, and don’t honk unless it necessary. This no-horn zone cannot be realized unless it is implemented as a law,” said Ratish M, an autorickshaw driver.
 
 City police commissioner M P Dinesh said enforcing it by imposing fines would be counterproductive and that creating awareness would be more effective.
 
 “If fines are imposed, people would not respond positively to it. Criminalising honking must be the last thing we must do. We are not planning an aggressive approach from our side. As part of the awareness programme, IMA would place signboards along the region,” said the commissioner.
 
 Dr Varghese Cheriyan, president of IMA, said that they already placed around ten boards next to the Metro pillars on MG Road. “We are focusing on creating an awareness about the issue and getting people to act on its basis. It will take time to create an impact,” he added.
 
 
