PANAJI: Even a week after civic authorities imposed a ban on the use of plastic bags of less than 50 microns, vendors in local markets are yet to find an alternative.

 Fish and poultry vendors were still seen packing items in plastic bags in the absence of any other way for customers to carry their purchases.
 
 While the intent behind the ban, implemented as part of the government’s plastic-free Goa mission, is good, citizens rued that the move has not been thought out properly by the civic bodies.
 
 “We can wrap small quantities of vegetables in newspapers. But for the bulk orders, we have to make eight-ten packages at a time, which is very time consuming. Business has slowed down by 40% due to this,” said vendor  .
 
 Meanwhile, several vendors have alternatively started stocking cloth bags worth Rs 10 or Rs 20, depending on size, although the move has not yet worked out in their favour. “Customers will not purchase a bag worth Rs 10 to carry greens worth Rs 20. People must also be advised by the government to carry bags from home,” said vendor Hyder Ali.
 
 While vegetable vendors are still managing to function, those who sell of pulses and grains are in bigger trouble. “The government should have thought of an alternative for businesses like ours. We approached the   and they said to charge people for paper bags. Doing that will further decrease our customers, since they will prefer to go to the mall and buy readymade packets of rice instead of coming to the market. We have already seen a 45% decrease in profits after the ban,” said vendor  .
 
 Many others, however, are very optimistic about this change. Miramar-resident   said, “In olden days we used to carry our own bag to the market. Now, that good practice is making a comeback.”
 
 “We sell high-value vegetables like cherry tomatoes whose cost goes up in hundreds per kilogram. Customers don’t mind paying an extra Rs 10 to purchase a cloth bag. We make Rs 5 on the bag, so the ban has actually worked in our favour,” said vendor Sadiq Shaikh.
 
 Naomi M from   said, “The services of some self-help groups must be utilised to make and provide newspaper bags. They are very common in Mumbai and the practice can be adopted here as well. The vendors can charge a nominal amount for it. This way, plastic bags are replaced, paper is recycled and someone gains employment.”
 
 
