IMPHAL: Amid growing demands for justice, Manipur chief minister   and BJP Rajya Sabha member   have requested Union home minister Rajnath Singh for a CBI probe to investigate the mysterious death of Manipuri boy   in Noida last year. The duo, during their meeting with Rajnath in New Delhi on Thursday regarding various issues of the state, requested the home minister to instruct the UP government to hand over the case to CBI at the earliest, a statement issued by the CM's secretariat said. 

 A resident of Uripok area in Imphal West, Chanam (22) had gone missing after attending a concert in Noida on the night of September 8 last year and his body was later found in the Nithari village the next day. Chanam had, however, been admitted to the district hospital after he had passed out at the concert venue. But CCTV footage showed that he slipped out of the hospital at 6 am the next morning and police later informed that they have cremated his body as it could not be identified even after keeping it in the mortuary for three days. His brother, Ravikanta Chanam had, however, filed a missing persons complaint at the Knowledge Park police station in Noida on September 9 and his cousin, Lin had alleged that they did not get any updates even though the family kept visiting the police station. The postmortem report, showing that shock and haemorrhage due to blunt force injuries had led to the death, further raised suspicions and there have been persistent demands since then to hand over the investigation to the CBI. A group set up by Uripok residents and various civil bodies has been putting pressure on the government for justice.
 
 CM Biren and Bhabananda, in their meeting with the home minister, also held discussions on sanctioning additional IRB battalions for the state, helicopter scheme, vacating of old Koirengei airfield currently occupied by Territorial Army, and introduction of a new rehabilitation policy for surrendered rebels, the statement said. They also officially invited Rajnath to attend the celebration on of the first anniversary of the BJP-led state government in Manipur scheduled on March 15, 2018.
 
 The CM also met BJP national president Amit Shah and discussed about the various ongoing development projects in the state. The Imphal-Delhi direct flight services to be offered by Air Asia and providing parking space for planes in Delhi airport were part of the talks. 
 
 Biren also met the BJP national secretary and northeast in-charge Ram Madhav and talked about various development projects being taken up in the state.
 
 
