PANAJI: Sydney Lemos had access to the who’s who of world   not so long ago. He came into prominence in 2015, when his company, FC Prime Markets—FC denoting forex and commodities—became the principal sponsor of FC Goa, the Goan franchise in the ISL. As principal sponsor, he had a front row seat to Indian football’s glamorous league and easy access to some big names like Sachin Tendulkar, Abhishek Bachchan and  , all of whom are associated with the cash-rich league.

 Lemos, along with his wife  , also had no difficulty in rubbing shoulders with football’s biggest names like Zico and even Ronaldinho, who they were introduced to at VIP Room, a popular nightclub in Dubai renowned for its celeb clientele. But it’s a short five-second personal video recorded by Brazil superstar   for Valany that takes the cake.
 
 Recorded in Portuguese, Neymar can be seen delivering a personal message for Valany and sends her a “big hug and kiss.” 
 
 “Sydney was a footballer during his younger days and continued to play even when he was in Dubai,” said a source who has known Sydney from his time in Dubai. “We knew he loved the sport but his sponsorship of FC Goa took everyone by surprise.”
 
 Even FC Goa was surprised that it got a sponsor from an unlikely quarter. The Goan franchise was in the market for a principal sponsor after Videocon D2H said they wouldn’t be able to provide the Rs 3.5 crore they had paid during the inaugural season in 2014. Sydney, who met officials during the team’s pre-season camp in Dubai, stepped in and surprised FC Goa by agreeing a five-year deal that cost him Rs 3.25 crore plus taxes in the first year.
 
 “For everyone, this was too good to be true,” the source said. But it was convenient for both parties. While FC Goa got the sponsor they were looking out for — nobody else had shown interest — Sydney found legitimacy and plenty of fame.
 
 Sydney was running FC Bardez, a popular team in Dubai for many years, and also invested in a team of the same name that was provided direct entry in the Goa Professional League. But it’s his FC Goa connection that gave him the biggest returns.
 
 “The FC Goa connection helped him attract more investors,” said another source, whose son invested in the scheme and got good returns at the start. “When people saw that he was sponsoring FC Goa and hobnobbing with some big names, including those from Bollywood, it gave him and his business legitimacy.”
 
 The bubble had to burst one day. And it happened sooner than anyone expected. In late 2016, when complaints of fraud were filed against Sydney and his company, FC Goa — now with new owners in place — decided to pull the plug. They sent his company a notice and immediately terminated the contract.
 
 He was eventually arrested in January 2017 and has now been sentenced to more than 500 years in prison.
 
 
