MUMBAI: A Panama-flag merchant   that was hijacked with 22 Indian crew members on board was released on Tuesday. The ship,  , which is loaded with 13,500 tonnes gas oil, was at anchorage at   Coast of West Africa (see map) when pirates hijacked the vessel on February 1. The pirates released the ship at 0400 Singapore time (2am IST) from an unknown location after a “successful deal” with the shipping company. 

 The tanker vessel is owned by Ocean Transit Carrier SA, a Japanese company, whereas the 22 sailors have been appointed on the ship by a Hong Kong firm, Anglo-Eastern Shipping.
 
 Anglo-Eastern’s spokeserson in the UK, Pat Adamson, said that they managed to negotiate and get the ship and crew released.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Malini Shankar, Director General of Shipping in Mumbai, said, “It was a piracy attack. The ship will now be sailing to her destination. The company too has confirmed the release but did not mention about the ransom paid to the hijackers. All the crew members are safe.” 
 
 Anglo-Eastern tweeted on Tuesday morning: “We are delighted to report that MT Marine Express, which was hijacked by pirates on Feb 1, is now back under the command of the captain & crew since ~04:00 SG time today. All crew members are reported to be safe & well & the cargo intact. We thank you all for your well wishes (sic).”
 
 The hijacking was observed after Ango-Eastern lost contact with the vessel on January 31 when it was in Cotonou anchorage at Benin. On February 2, Ango-Eastern had tweeted: “We regret that contact has been lost with the AE-managed MT Marine Express while at Cotonou, Benin. Last contact was at 03:30 UTC, Feb 1. Authorities have been alerted and are responding. Our top priority is the safety of the crew, whose families have been contacted (sic).”
 
 Adamson had told foreign news agencies that the Panama-registered Marine Express was part laden with a cargo of 13,500 tonnes of gasoline but refused to part with details of the Indian crew. One of the sailors on board is   (25), son of Perilavallap Ashokan of Udma in Kasargod, Kerala. Another crew member, also from Kerala, is from Kozhikode.
 
 Minister of external affairs   said in a tweet: “I am happy to inform that Merchant Ship Marine Express with 22 Indian nationals on board has been released. We thanks Governments of Nigeria and Benin for their help and support.”
 
 
