Ludhiana: In a major boost for the   ahead of MC elections, prominent members of Christian community on Saturday announced unconditional support to the party and also decided to campaign for it in all wards.

 Albert Dua, a member of the state minority commission and president of   (CUF), along with senior church leaders and youth members of   announced the support during a press conference.
 
 Dua said, “The Christian community of city has decided to give its full support to Congress in MC elections as the party has shown its full commitment to stand with our community by giving ticket to a Christian candidate from ward number 54. The entire Christian fraternity has decided to campaign for the party in every ward and our community members from all over Punjab will come to Ludhiana and join us in the campaign.”
 
 Dua also said, “We have close to one lakh voters in all the 95 wards and we will provide support to the Congress throughout the wards to ensure that the party wins with a thumping majority and gets the mayor’s post so that our dream to see Ludhiana as smart city comes true.”
 
 District Congress president Gurpreet thanked Dua for announcing his support. Others present on this occasion included Johnson Gill, Vikas Waraich, Raj Pal, Nikk Chabra, Denis Fanta, Raj Sidhu, Dharminder Masih, Dominic and Sushil Kumar.
 
  leaders when contacted however claimed that these were the claims of only a section of community. 
 
 "It is very unfortunate that one person is making claims of him representing the entire community. Such leaders are there in every religion who have their own fan following but they do not represent or reflect the entire community. We are always thankful to the Christian community for their contribution to city and state and we know they will vote responsibly and for development. Results would show the real picture. The Congress party which is deliberately adopting such tactics to gain publicity and misguide people," said Ravinder Arora, District BJP president. 
 
 
