KOCHI: Vice-President  , while taking a morning stroll through the   here, had words of advice for mayor Soumini Jain, district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla and city police commissioner M P Dinesan - top honchos of the city administration- who accompanied him, regarding the overall development of Kochi. 

 Naidu, who held the portfolio of housing and urban affairs prior to becoming the country's Vice-President, said the corporation should tap the city's potential for generating revenue.
 
 The Vice-President started the morning walk, that lasted one hour, around 6.45 am. "The VP said that we should adopt measures for increasing revenue without introducing new taxes. Looking around the high-rise buildings surrounding  , he said that the corporation could generate more revenue if all such constructions are assessed properly," said mayor Soumini Jain.
 
 Naidu also underlined the need for ensuring people's participation in all the development activities of the city, she said. "Activities like sanitation are not the responsibility of local self-governments alone. People also have responsibility. The VP said that this is the spirit behind the Swachh Bharat Mission," Jain said.
 
 He also said that projects should be designed in consultation with the public. "The development projects should be designed with people's participation. The Vice President said the public won't accept projects imposed on them without their approval. So, the suggestions by the public, which may be crude, should be translated into projects," Soumini Jain said. He also told the mayor that Kochi is the city he loves most after Hyderabad and  . During chats with the mayor, commissioner and collector, Naidu expressed his wish for leading a normal life. "He said that around 25 security personnel would accompany him wherever he goes. He was of the view that four security personnel can ensure his security," Jain said. "Kochi is the third most loved city by the Vice-President. Hyderabad and Vizag are his first and second most loved cities," she said.
 
 Venkaiah Naidu, according to sources, did not want his morning walk to disrupt the routine of other joggers in the park. "On seeing the motorcade, some of them went back. Some others couldn't make up their mind whether to pursue the daily walk or not. But, the cops asked everybody to enjoy their walk," Jain said.
 
 Naidu also found time to interact with the public and some of the contingency workers of Kochi corporation who carry out the waste disposal in the city. The Vice President, later, took a ride in Kochi Metro.
 
 
