CHENNAI: The  , Tangedco, tops the list of debtors of   since April 2014. Of the total Rs 1.77lakh crore released as loan to 22 states by the corporation, Tangedco secured 21% of the amount towards loans — that is Rs 37,598crore. It is also the period during which the losses of Tangedco began to reduce and the credit worthiness of the discom increased. 

 The PFC has financed three thermal units for the North Chennai Thermal Power Station and Ennore Thermal Power. Of these, one unit has been commissioned and other two are likely to become operational later in the year. The total loan taken from the PFC for the three thermal units is Rs 14,724crore. 
  
  
 A Tangedco source said the discom has been availing loans from PFC because of the ease with which it could access it. “PFC and   are specialised agencies for financing power plants, both thermal and hydro. They have various parameters for giving loans to discoms,” said a senior Tangedco official. 
 
 The parameters include the financial status of the discom and repaying capacity. “Taking loans from these specialised agencies means we get more time to repay, that is a longer repayment period. The interest is time-based. We can get loans from both the agencies at 11% per annum,” said the official. 
 
 Tangedco’s financial status improved in the last few years due to lowering of its losses after several measures were taken. They include use of more wind power which cost less, stoppage of coal imports and installation of digital meters. Of the total debt, the state government took over a major portion of it under the Uday scheme. “But for our improved financial health, we would not have been able to get loans from any agency to fund our own power units,” he said.
 
 PFC has also financed two hydro units in Tamil Nadu. “The financing agency provided Rs 75crore loans for two units of one MW each at Periyar-Vaigai and two units of 1.5MW capacity each at the same place with Rs 57crore loan,” the official said. 
 
 Tangedco has also received the maximum funding from PFC due to its dependence on thermal units, unlike other states. “Our main stay is thermal and we will have to increase our capacity for meeting future demand. Other states have avenues to tap power from hydro sources. But, our state is poor on hydro,” said the official. 
 
 EOM
 
 
