Ludhiana: More than 3 months have passed since the fire and building collapse incident in Suffian Chowk, but family members of three firemen, whose bodies were not traced and were declared dead later, are still struggling to get compensation and other benefits from the government. The family members met deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal and municipal commissioner Jaskiran Singh on Tuesday with their demands. They have been assured to get the compensation within 2-3 days. 

 District vice-president of the BJP Parminder Mehta had taken them to the DC and the MC commissioner and asked the officers to get the compensation amount released. The families have been assured that they would get the money in the 2-3 days. Of the 9 firemen, who had perished in the fire, kin of 6 of them were released the compensation amount. However, families of three firemen Manohar Lal, Sukhdev and Manpreet had to wait because it took time for the district administration to declare them dead. Later the matter was further delayed as civic body elections were announced and due to imposition of election code of conduct the department could not release the amount. 
 
 The family members claim that they have been running from pillar to post for the compensation. They rued that they had not even received the bodies and now they were not sure whether they would get compensation due to departmental delays and other formalities. They have demanded that the officials should take their case on priority basis and release the money. 
 
 Deputy commissioner Agrawal said they would release the money as soon as possible and families had also been assured about the same. 
 
 Meanwhile, an inquiry report of Amarson Polymers that had collapsed on November 20, 2017, is still pending. Patiala divisional commissioner VK Meena was assigned the inquiry and local officials had provided all information regarding the factory to the inquiry officer. One of the officials requesting anonymity said that they had no clue about the inquiry report. 
 
 
