Rajkot: The body of a 20-year-old youth, chopped into pieces, was found dumped in a 60-foot borewell of 12-inch diameter on the outskirts of Mota Bhadiya village of Mandvi taluka in Kutch on Tuesday. 

 The deceased was identified as Devang Gadhvi, a resident of Mota Bhadiya village. He had been missing since February 12. Police booked two local bootleggers and arrested one of them for allegedly murdering Devang and trying to destroy evidence. According to police, Devang, who had been involved in bootlegging, had left his house on February 12 and did not return. His family members lodged a missing person’s complaint with Mandvi taluka police station on February 13, following which a search operation was launched.
 
 During investigation, police checked the mobile phone call records of Devang and found that he was in constant touch with listed bootleggers Rambhai Gadhvi and Khimraj Gadhvi, also from Mota Bhadiya village, before he went missing. Since Rambhai was already in jail for bootlegging since February 14, police detained Khimraj and interrogated him on Monday evening.
 
 Police said that after hours of questioning, Khimraj confessed to murdering Devang along with Rambhai on February 13. He also told police that they had chopped Devang’s body into pieces and dumped it into a defunct borewell outside their village. 
 
 On being asked about the reason for killing Devang, Khimraj told cops that he had borrowed Rs 50,000 from Rambhai few months ago and had not returned it. On February 12, the two accused called Devang outside the village on the pretext of giving him some work and allegedly killed him.
 
 Based on the information, Khimji police along with fire officials reached the spot and tried to fish out the body parts. Since the opening of the borewell was very small, local authorities ordered digging of the nearby land to take out Devang’s body parts. The excavation work will be completed by Wednesday morning, said police inspector M R Gamit of Mandvi police station.
 
 
