Myriad pattern are emerging in Bengali theatre. Sansriti’s Debesh Chattopadhyay is directing Swapnasandhani’s next, 
 , Anjan Dutt is playing the lead role in Kaushik Sen’s new production Taray Taray   is directing Purba Paschim’s new production Athoi Jol, Kanchan Mullick has debuted as a director in Indraranga’s Ekdin Aladin
  the list goes on. Though collaborations have been there in Bengali theatre for many years, the frequency is rising. 

 
 Thespian Bratya Basu says it is the need of the hour. “It is a fight for our existence. I have experimented with collaborative works for many years. Together, we have already created Mephisto, Winkle Twinkle and several other productions. I have understood that there is no market for an individual actor or director. Clearly, an ensemble cast and crew can save the state of Bengali theatre,” the thespian tells us.
 Thespian Suman Mukhopadhyay, who returned to Chetana with Sujan Mukhopadhayay’s Don — Taake Bhalo Laage as an actor, agrees. “When I did Mephisto in 2004, it was a breakthrough. We had involved everyone in Bengali theatre to create something against the Gujarat riots. Gautam Halder, Kaushik Sen, Bratya Basu — everybody was involved. One fine morning, we decided that we have to do this. Those were the early days of collaborative work in Bengali theatre. Before that, it used to be a repertoire system with one director and his group’s actors. In our generation, we broke that shackle,” he says.
 Besides his own group Sansriti, thespian Debesh Chattopadhyay has been working in several other groups as scenographer, advisor and director for some years now. Before directing 
 for Swapnasandhani, he has collaborated with Pancham Baidik, Minerva and other groups. “I believe in collaborative work. I, as a director, learn from the cast and crew of other groups. The exchange of ideas and work procedures help an artiste grow,” Debesh tells us. In fact, Sanskriti and Pancham Baidik collaborated to stage Chand Manasar Kissa early this year. While Subhasish Gangopadhyay of The Blind Opera directed the play, Pancham Baidik’s   designed the costume and Debesh did the scenography. “I always try and work with other groups,” says Arpita. “When you are confined to only one group, you get into a comfort zone. Breaking out of that comfort zone is a challenge and that helps you grow,” adds the thespian, who has worked under many eminent directors including Manish Mitra. 
 Swapnasandhani’s Kaushik Sen shares a similar opinion. “My team members in Swapnasandhani are too familiar with me. I am the only director they have ever worked with. I wanted them to get out of that comfort zone. I wanted them to meet a new director, talk to him and understand what he wants. Debesh is a dear old friend and my group members chose him to direct the new production,” the actor says.
 
 
 Besides artistic explorations, collaborative works can also be financially helpful to the cash-strapped theatre industry. The production cost of 
 , for example, was undertaken by both Sansriti and Pancham Baidik. “Yes, it is financially helpful if there is a collaboration. But such collaborations are not as common as artistic collaborations,” says Arpita. Kaushik Sen, on the other hand, banked on crowdfunding for his production, 
 . 
 
 
 Is the heritage of group theatre being diluted by these numerous cases of collaboration in Bengal? Is company theatre the future? Well, some tend to agree. Indrajit Chakraborty of Indraranga clearly stated that his group is a company theatre. “We invite directors and actors from other groups or freelancers. For example, Kanchan (Mullick) directed and acted in our Ekdin Aladin, and Anirban (Bhattacharya) acted in Awdyo Sesh Rajani. Besides, there are members in our group — they are all salaried,” he says. Apart from Indraranga, Bratya’s Kalindi Bratyajan too operates using the company theatre model. 
 However, there are many theatre activists who passionately root for group theatre.   said she believes in togetherness. “For me, theatre is all about love. I can only be creative when I can share my love and be loved. This comes from being together for a long time. My group members understand my emotions and I understand theirs. Unless this faith is there, for me, the creativity of theatre goes missing. I have worked with several directors in other groups as an actor. But I am the happiest when I am at Nandikar. That’s why I am a bit sceptical when it comes to big collaborations in Bengali theatre,” she says. 
  of Sangharam thinks theatre is performed better in a group. “We tend to open up more easily when we are in familiar surroundings and hence, a theatre worker performs better when he works with his own team. In case of company theatre, one has to take his craft to the point where his surroundings cannot affect his performance. That is tough. However, I do agree that it is high time that we re-evaluate our ideas of group theatre and make it more robust and experimental,” says Anirban, who is often seen acting outside his own group.
 
 
