BHOPAL: Seven months ahead of   elections, the   government accorded minister of state status to five Hindu religious leaders on Tuesday evening, drawing sharp reaction from   for "exploiting religion for political gain". 

 
 The five are Computer Baba, Bhayyu Maharaj, Pandit Yogendra  , Narmadanand Maharaj and Hariharanand Maharaj.   and Mahant, a former Congress corporator, had in fact planned a statewide campaign named ' ' against the Chouhan government for alleged irregularities in last year's   Sewa Yatra and the 'record' plantation of 6 crore saplings along the riverbanks.
 
 
 
 After getting the MoS status, they dropped the campaign, with Computer Baba telling reporters that "there was no need for it now". The campaign was scheduled to begin on April 1. But on March 31, the five leaders were appointed to a committee set up for the conservation of the Narmada river. 
 
 Mahant is the only person from Indore to have the rank of a minister as no BJP MLA from the state's commercial capital has found a place in Shivraj's cabinet. BJP members in Indore expressed displeasure over the development and said Mahant was a vocal critic of Chouhan. A few days ago, Mahant was seen marching with Congress veteran Digivijaya Singh, who is walking 3,400km to complete a religious Narmada parikrama. 
 
 "The question of a campaign against Narmada yatra does not arise as we will work together with the government for conservation and awareness," Mahant told TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 Computer Baba said: "We have cancelled the campaign because the state government has fulfilled our demand to form a committee of saints and seers for the protection of the Narmada." When asked if there was any "deal" with the government, He said: "I never pressured the government in the name of any ' ghotala ', nor demanded any status. It was the CM who called and honoured us." He added that was "a recognition for my service to society and religion". 
 
 Political insiders feel the CM's move is not only aimed at roping in these religious leaders, who have a massive following, but also at blunting Digivijaya's parikrama during which he is believed to have touched base with lakhs of villagers. Computer Baba on Wednesday dismissed the parikrama as a "political march for his political ambition". 
 
 Congress criticised the BJP government for "exploiting religious sentiments for political gain". "It's a political gimmick, an effort by the chief minister to wash his sins," said party spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi. State BJP spokesperson Rajnish Agrawal said the opposition "dislikes anything done in reverence to saints". Sources in the secretariat said this is the first time that the government has granted MoS status to a religious leader. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Represents Digamber Akhada of Ahilya Nagar in Indore and says he has a "computer-like brain and sharp memory". Hence, the name. Apparently one of the first sadhus to use computers in the '90s, he loves gadgets and is always armed with a laptop, smartphone and other gizmos. He has a chopper, too. He tried unsuccessfully to get a Rajya Sabha ticket from AAP in New Delhi. He had planned a campaign against Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for 'irregularities' in last year's Narmada Sewa Yatra but dropped it after getting into the committee to save the river, and subsequent MoS status.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  Once a model, and now a popular spiritual leader and social reformer and motivator, who runs Satguru Dutt Religious Trust in Indore. He has good contacts in political, social, film and religious circles. Conducts social activities through free education, helps farmers, patients and villagers through welfare programmes. Is said to have played a key role in persuading Anna Hazare to call off his fast in 2011.
 
  
  
 
 
  Has an Ashram in Omkareshwar and another in Dindori. He was very active during Narmada Sewa Yatra to propagate cleanliness, environment conservation and awareness among public.
 
 
 Was in the core group that spearheaded Narmada Sewa Yatra last year. A 'Mahamandleshwar', he has an ashram in Amarkantak. Deeply involved in environment and river conservation and 'swachhta' campaigns across MP. Runs awareness campaigns on afforestation and organic farming.
 
 
 A former Congress corporator turned sadhu, he launched a campaign against the MP government during Narmada Sewa Yatra last year. Mahant and Computer Baba formed a forum for social activities and planned to launch a campaign against 'irregularities' in Narmada Sewa Yatra. Known to be a close supporter of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh. Strangely, he is now the only Indorean to get ministerial status - no BJP MLA figures in the Shivraj cabinet.
 
  
  
 
