PUNE: Two days after the Chatushrungi police filed a case against the vice chancellor and two top ranking officials of   for allegedly forging their PhD certificates, the investigating officers were clueless about their whereabouts. 

 A police team that had gone to arrest the three persons was unable to locate them as searches at their respective houses failed to yield any result.
 
 Assistant inspector Dhananjay   said, “We had gone to the university and their houses, but they were not there. Their relatives, too, didn’t know where they were. They are missing at the moment, but we cannot call them absconders.” We are trying to trace them, he added. 
 
 When TOI tried to call them, their cellphones were switched off.
 
 Earlier on Wednesday, a social activist filed a complaint against the university’s vice chancellor  , chief financial officer Rathnasamy Jeyam and School of Arts and Social Sciences dean Chacko Paul alleging that their PhDs from the Manav Bharti University in Himachal Pradesh were fake. 
 
 Kapre, who had sought copies of the degree certificates and had approached the authorities of Manav Bharti University, said, “The university officials said they had not issued the doctorate degrees to the three office-bearers. It is clear the degrees were fake.”
 
 Known as Spicer Memorial College, it was granted university status by the State Legislative Assembly in June 2014. Since then, it is known as Spicer Adventist University. The university belongs to   and the Southern Asia Division of the worldwide Seventh-day  , according to the official website.
 
 Meanwhile, some alumni of the university expressed shock over the turn of events at their alma mater. Rumours have been going around for months now with many discussing the alleged fake degrees on social media.
 
 “It came as a shock to me that such respected people can have fake degrees. We belong to the church and it hurts to know that the very people who are supposed to uphold the ideals of educational institute are embroiled in a controversy,” an alumnus said.
 
 
