NOIDA: UP   chief Thakur Karan Singh was arrested by Kasna police on Thursday for leading the protest against the film  , and subsequent vandalism in the twin cities. The accused, a native of Falonda Bangar village in Rabupura, had been absconding for four days after masterminding the ruckus in Greater Noida, and leading the mob that vandalised DND toll plaza in Noida on Sunday.

 Greater Noida 1 circle officer Amit Kishore Shrivastava said Singh had played an active role in mobilizing people for the protest in Noida and Greater Noida. “In Noida, the mob vandalised the DND toll plaza. Two cases were registered against Singh under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting), 188 (disobedience of order promulgated by public servant), 283 (criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty), 427 (mischief causing damage) of IPC in Kasna and Surajpur,” he said. The police station at Noida’s Sector 20 had also registered a separate case against 200 people and arrested 16 accused involved in the vandalism, even as Singh went absconding.
 
 Shrivastava said on Thursday, police received information about his movement in Kasna. A police team reached the spot and arrested him. “The accused was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” he said.
 
 The protesters had gathered at Ghodi Bachera village on Sunday afternoon to hold a meeting. Half of them had protested outside shopping malls and multiplexes in Greater Noida while the rest had taken part in the DND Flyway vandalism in Noida. The latter had manhandled some security guards during the half-an-hour protest. They had also damaged cabins, smashed window panes, cameras, computers, chairs and other equipment. A police team later arrived and arrested 16 people.
 
 In Greater Noida on Thursday, Padmaavat was released amid tight security at multiplexes inside Omaxe NRI City Centre, Ansal Plaza, Grand Venice Mall, etc. Moviegoers who watched the film said they did not find it offensive. “I am a   and I watched the film. The film-maker has depicted a positive image of the community. I feel fringe elements with vested interests made an issue without watching the film,” said Vishal Singh, a resident of Sector Alfa 1.
 
 In Noida, the second days’ show at DLF Mall of India, GIP, Dharma Palace, Spice and Wave malls, etc, remained peaceful. Bouncers and private security guards were posted at DLF Mall of India. Police personnel were also placed outside and inside the mall. Police said there was no unwanted incident during the screening in the twin cities on Thursday.
 
 
