GURUGRAM: Government authorities and experts unanimously put the blame for the spike in the city’s air pollution levels over the last decade on five factors — construction dust, diesel autos, use of diesel  , burning of garbage in the open and lack of  . 

 While there are over 1,200 construction sites in and around  , it has over 10,000 diesel generators that emit pollutants equivalent to 50,000 heavy trucks. Unchecked   and dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) still takes place, as authorities fail to come up with a proper waste disposal system. 
 
 Besides, lack of public transport causes more pollution, as over 7 lakh people visit the city every day from neighbouring cities.
 
 Talking about rising construction dust, Faridabad-based environmentalist Jitender Bhadana said, “With so many commercial complexes and highrises, with construction of many others still in progress, Gurugram and Faridabad have become the dustiest cities in Haryana. We’re also losing trees that used to play an important role in controlling dust.”
 
 Former EPCA member Niranjan Raje, a vocal critic of diesel pollution, said, “Nothing pollutes the city more than diesel autos and generators. Despite repeated promises, authorities failed to chalk out a plan to convert diesel autos into CNG.” For many, the 16,500 diesel autos that ply in Gurugram are the only means of transport.
 
 Use of diesel gensets has also increased over the years. According to an estimate, more than 80% of households depend on these for power backup, in a city where the average daily shortfall is nearly 103MW. Every day during peak summer, diesel gensets produce 80.75MW of power consumed in New Gurugram.
 
 Many residents are also concerned about unchecked waste burning and dumping of C&D waste, which are known to raise PM2.5 concentration. On average, seven cases of waste burning were reported every month in 2017, though residents claim many more go unreported. “The problem is not waste burning, but a lack of proper waste disposal system. We’re forced to live in such polluted surroundings, despite paying huge taxes and maintenance cost,” said Savita Singh, who lives on Golf Course (extension) Road. 
 
 Dependence on cars is another culprit. According to data released by Centre for Science and Environment, there are 88 vehicles per thousand people in Delhi, 30% of whom use cars or two-wheelers, against corresponding figures of 323 and 41% for Gurugram.
 
 Yet, authorities have been delaying crucial public transport projects. They proposed a fleet of 500 buses in 21 routes by April 2016, which got postponed to March 2018, and is now postponed to August 2018, even though the operator is yet to be finalised. The project to extend the metro line from Huda City Centre to Gurugram railway station has also been hanging fire for four years.
 
 
