PATNA: Residents can expect respite from prevailing scorching heat conditions as the   ( ) has predicted scattered showers across the state on Wednesday and isolated showers till Sunday.

 In its weather bulletin issued on Tuesday, the IMD stated that thunderstorm accompanied with squall and hail may hit isolated places over Uttarakhand, Bihar and Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim on Wednesday. It further stated that wind speed reaching 50-70km per hour may also be experienced. 
 
 Weathermen have attributed the prevailing weather conditions in the region to a cyclonic circulation lying over sub-Himalayan West Bengal and adjoining Bihar.
 
 Entire Bihar remained dry on Tuesday and the highest maximum temperature was recorded at 43.6 degrees Celsius at Dehri. The highest level in the mercury column in Patna, on the other hand, was recorded at 39.4 degrees C.
 
 The state capital has also been experiencing a sudden surge in humidity in the past few days. Relative humidity in the city was recorded at 75% on Tuesday morning. Weathermen have attributed the sultry conditions to moist easterly winds amid high temperature conditions.
 
 “The temperature at present is being recorded in the range of 38-40 degrees C, but the present heat wave conditions may be due to a rise in relative humidity. Humidity in itself has a characteristic to produce a warming effect. If the relative humidity is between 60-80 %, the day is called a hot day,” said Pradhan Parth Sarthi, associate professor, Central University of South Bihar.
 
 Sarthi, also the secretary of the Indian Meteorological Society’s Bihar chapter, added the present persistent hot days may be due to a moisture-laden wind blowing from the Bay of Bengal.
 
 “The city may experience thunderstorm or dust storm with partly cloudy sky on Wednesday and Thursday. There is also a possibility of rainfall on both the days,” a Met official at Patna said on Tuesday. 
 
 As per a report by private weather agency   on Tuesday, weather conditions were favourable for another round of rain, thundershowers along with dust storm and thunderstorm across north India. “We can expect mild to moderate intensity of dust storm, thunderstorm, lightning, rain and thundershowers in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, north Madhya Pradesh and parts of east and northeast India,” the agency’s weather report stated. 
 
 
