KOZHIKODE: The merger of   with SBT and other associate banks might have created a banking behemoth, but it has created a strange crisis for  . The state's largest varsity - which had maintained all its accounts in the erstwhile SBT - has almost run out of cheque leaves. After merger, SBI is yet to deliver new cheque leaves in adequate numbers. 

 Varsity officials said that while the varsity sought 15,000 cheque leaves, SBI has provided only around 500 leaves after January 1, crippling the varsity's examination-duty related payments to teachers and vendors. This has forced the varsity to withhold the remuneration given to teachers for exam-related duty. This in turn angered a section of teachers, who then boycotted evaluation duty for one day at a centralized valuation camp last week.
 
 "We have almost run out of cheque leaves as we have received only 500 leaves from SBI. We had asked 15,000. The varsity needs around 150 cheques each day. The validity of old cheque leaves of SBT had ended on December 31, said finance officer Velayudhan M.
 
 He said that bank authorities at   had maintained that the cheques are printed and issued in a centralized manner and that they have raised the matter with SBI authorities concerned.
 
 Syndicate member and examinations standing committee convener CL Joshi said that shortage of cheque leaves have hit various payments to be made by the varsity, especially the remuneration for teachers on exam duty. "The payments for evaluation duty (for teachers of BA and BSc courses) are pending for one year. We had decided to clear all dues by March 31, but the shortage has created a hurdle," he added.
 
 University sources said that as per the  , the varsity can maintain varsity fund only in SBI and its associate banks or the government treasury. "Varsity has taken steps to amend the Act and statutes to maintain accounts in other banks as well. But the amendment is yet to get the assent of the chancellor," a top official added.
 
 SBI's Tenhipalam branch manager, Sunil Kumar said that since cheque leaves are required in bulk quantities, they are issued not as normal cheque books but as 'continuous stationary' from SBI offices outside the state. "We had raised the requirement through the system and it will be supplied directly to the varsity," he added.
 
 
