AURANGABAD: Dr   ( ) cancelled its first-year MBA examination on Monday following the leak of question paper through WhatsApp at a local college. 

 The incident took place during the conduct of examination for Accounting for Managers paper between 10 am and 1 pm.
 
 Acting Controller of Examination (CoE) Digambar Netke, Bamu, said  , who was writing the exam at  , allegedly clicked photos of the question paper and sent it to two friends outside through WhatsApp.
 
 While the question paper soon went viral on a WhatsApp group, called Future Manager, within an hour of the start of the examination, an alert security staffer helped in exposing the wrongdoing.
 
 He noted suspicious movements of   and his two 'aids' and handed them over to the vigilance staff for interrogation. The panicked duo spilled the beans and named their friend taking the examination, Netke said. As soon as the question paper leak news spread among candidates taking the examination, they gathered on the college campus and demanded cancellation of the examination.
 
 Bamu authorities, who reached the spot to take stock of the situation, decided to cancel the examination. While initially the authorities decided to conduct the examination afresh during second half of the day, candidates opposed such move following which re-examination was announced on January 3.
 
 Altogether 2,028 candidates registered for the examination, which was conducted at two centres, including Deogiri Institute of Engineering and Management in   along with four centres in other areas under BAMU jurisdiction.
 
 Asked how the accused student could take mobile phone inside the examination hall despite ban on carrying such gadgets by candidates, CoE said the student could have hidden it inside his innerwear. Meanwhile, an offence was registered at CIDCO police station against Shaikh and his two accomplices based on complaints by Bamu authorities.
 
 CoE Netke said that the accused student, who belongs to Deogiri Institute of Engineering and Management, would also face university-level action after formal inquiry. The student will be subjected to stern punishment and be barred from appearing in examinations in future, he said.
 
 
