Tirunelveli: The Tirunelveli District Administration has launched ‘Namma Nellai’, a mobile app to take the district administration and government closer to the people through m-governance. The app can be downloaded from Google Play Store and users need to register their mobile number to start using it. The software was developed with a multi-pronged approach to engage the public. “From e-governance the world is moving towards m-governance. Everyone has one or two smart phones and are active on social media using their phones. We have launched the app for the growing number of such users. Every week we get hundreds of grievance petitions from people who travel across the district. Now they can submit their petitions through the app from their place,” collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI. Work on the application began about two months back and was made ready on Google Play Store. But it was popularised only during the New Year. “Initially the app only had contents on government initiatives and schemes and information about the district. Now we have added interactive features and started popularising it,” the collector said. ‘Namma Nellai’ has the mobile numbers of the local minister, MLAs, MPs and top officials in the district, across departments. It also has information on the district, five different maps of the district, information on tourist spots, native made in Nellai products and information on the latest initiatives of the district administration. Work is under way to add more information under various topics including public utilities. “We trying to develop the public utilities section in such a way that people on disclosing their location will be able to know toilets, hospitals, schools and government buildings near them,” Sandeep Nanduri added. Namma Nellai is yet another citizen connect initiative by the district administration in recent months. Launch of call your collector on 9786566111 and reach the collector by WhatsApp on the same number and connecting with the collector on Facebook and Twitter (@collectortnv) are the other initiatives. The app was last updated on December 31. Users can also submit suggestions for improving the app.