It is gathering dusk at   and as the lights come on, a chorus of ek do ek, ek do ek reverberate through Pantsachiv ground.

 Little girls in blue dresses with scarves around their necks and boys in steel grey shirts and navy blue trousers march in unison, occasionally raising their hands in salute as the Scoutmaster barks commands at them.
 
 It’s a bandh day across the state but in the true spirit of the Scout and Guide movement, the ‘troops’ are in full attendance.
 
 “We are open on all days of the week and there is no holiday for us,” says  , a retired lecturer who has been associated with the Scout movement in Pune for more than 50 years.
 
 
  
 
 It is on Pantsachiv ground where the Scout movement in the city has blossomed and flourished since the late 1920s though it had its early birth in January, 1919, on the premises of the NMV High School.
 
 While Scout chapters elsewhere across the country have had to deal with waning popularity due to boring camps, dirty infrastructure, lack of trainers, academic pressure and lukewarm government support, the Scout movement in Pune has been alive and kicking for over a century.
 
 As the Pune City Bharat Scouts and Guides Local Association (PCBSGLA) and Shri Shivaji Kul (SSK), a scout group, celebrate 100 years of their existence this year, they can draw satisfaction from the fact that they have been able to keep the love for Scouting alive among the city’s youth.
 
 
 
 
 In fact, over the years the city chapter has witnessed a surge in students interested in scouts. Currently, around 10,000 students, comprising both boys and girls, from around 50 schools in the city are registered with association, which is connected with Scouting activities in schools. These apart, around 400 students are associated with Shri Shivaji Kul, an open Scout -Guide troop.
 
 “One of the main reasons why we have been able to sustain the interest of students is because of the contemporariness of our scout syllabus. Scout education was initially designed to help boys join the military. But over the years, several elements have been added not only to develop young boys and girls into good citizens with leadership capabilities, but also to impart skills training that will enable them sustain themselves later on in life.
 
 “For example, we have introduced training in different trades such as mobile repairing, cycle repairing, scooter repairing etc. We have started offering programmes in computer education, in solar energy and also AIDS awareness. Solar energy programmes entail making models of solar equipment. We offer proficiency badges in more than 100 disciplines,” says Aditya  , another member.
 
 
 
 
 “In fact, nothing is ‘outside the syllabus’ for us,” points out Madhav Dhaigude. “We customise our training according to students’ interest. For example, if a student has an interest in gardening, we try to develop his or her interest in that specific field and frame a syllabus according to the age of the student. Badges are handed out to the students on successful completion of the course and on passing a practical examination.” Encouraged by these proficiency badges, many scouts have now started their own businesses. “One of our old Scouts started a successful laundry business in the city after he got a badge in laundry. Another student started a business in manufacturing medals. Many of our Scouts have established themselves in various fields — academics, medicine, administration, railway service etc,” Dhaigude says.
 
 In fact, the Scouting movement received a boost in Maharashtra with the state government officially including Scout Guide as an academic subject in 1972. “Currently, it is not a compulsory subject. Students in Class IX and X can take it as an optional subject but nevertheless, interest in Scouting among parents and children has remained the same, especially among the younger age groups.”
 
 According to the 2015-16 census of Scouts and Guides, there were 1,39,785 Cubs (boys between 5 and 10) and 1,17,059 Bulbuls (girls between 5 and 10) in 2014-15 across the state.
 
 
 
 
 Initially, the local association was affiliated to the Indian Boy Scout Association, founded by  . However, as the Indian Boy Scout Association merged with Boy Scout Association of India, the local association also changed its affiliation to Hindusthan Scout Association formed in 1938 by nationalists Pandit Hridayanath Kunzru and Pandit   Malaviya. After Independence, all the scouting associations working independently were merged into one national organisation, the Bharat Scouts and Guides. Since then the association has been affiliated to Bharat Scouts and Guides. Over the years, two more Scout groups came to be formed in the city. Pune District Scout Association was formed in 1960 and Sangam, one of four Centres of the World Association of Girl Guides and  , was set up in 1967 at Yerawada.
 
 There have been several occasions when the Scout troops in the city stepped forward to help such as during the Panshet dam collapse and at other times. “Many of our boys participated in the rescue work and a centre was opened on Pantsachiv ground. Also, every year, we tie up with the city police during the   and palkhi processions. A few years ago, our boys had also helped the forest department by planting 5,000 trees on Taljai hills. In fact, we are trained to make ourselves helpful in all walks of life,” says Madhav Dhaigude.
 
