New Delhi: An   racket operating from   Jail was unearthed after two sharpshooters associated with wanted gangster Chhenu were arrested from Jafrabad in northeast Delhi. The two men were escaping after firing multiple rounds at a velvet manufacturer’s office.

 The accused have been identified as Sa ddam alias Sonu (28) and Mohd Anees (30). Both are close associates of gangster Asif alias Lambu, who is lodged under judicial custody at Tihar, DCP (northeast) Atul Kumar Thakur said.
 
 On May 10, the two men came on a two-wheeler and fired multiple rounds at the shop. The owner, Monis, told police that while fleeing, the   skidded and they left it on the road and fled on foot. The incident was caught by a CCTV camera installed near the road. The scooty was found to be stolen a few months ago. The duo was arrested on Wednesday.
 
 Cops stumbled upon the extortion racket while examining the phone records of the businessman where multiple calls had come from unknown numbers. They also found WhatsApp calls on the phone. Monis had not told police about the calls believing them to be pranks.
 
 A probe revealed that the calls were made by Asif and his brother Danish. The duo is lodged at Tihar under judicial custody. They are close associates of Chhenu. Danish is married into Chhenu’s family.
 
 Monis said that he had been receiving the calls since April wherein the person on the other side of the line had threatened to harm him if “security money” was not given. “Saddam and Anees were also found to be in constant touch with the gangsters who are behind the bars,” an officer said.
 
 The gangsters had planned to scare Monis through the threatening calls, but he didn’t pay heed to their demands. The two sharpshooters were then told to fire at the shop’s shutter so that he got the message.
 
 Saddam, who was booked for an attempt to murder case in 2013, was the one who gave information about the movement of the businessman. Anees, who was earlier a property dealer in Ballimaran, is a sharpshooter and has multiple cases registered against him, including that of murder and under Arms Act.
 
 Tihar officials said they didn’t have any information regarding the incident.
 
 
