CHANDIGARH: In what may add to trouble of the previous   regime led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda, which is already facing several land-related scams, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led   government in Haryana has decided to conduct a vigilance probe into the transfer of around 122 acres belonging to   (ACC) cement factory to a Mumbai-based builder.

 “An FIR in the issue was registered by Haryana police after our government came into power. During the investigation some startling facts have emerged, and the state government has decided to get a probe conducted by the Haryana vigilance bureau,” education minister   told the state assembly on Thursday.
 
 The minister was responding a question raised by Kalka MLA Latika Sharma alleging land scam in the transfer of factory’s land to a Mumbai-based builder, in connivance of some higher ups or government officials during Hooda’s regime.
 
 Latika, along with Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta, had demanded probe by CBI into the alleged scam. Speaking in the assembly, Latika had stated that as per the lease deed of the factory, the land could be used only for industrial purpose but during the previous government’s tenure, it was transferred to a Mumbai-based builder for the purpose of developing a township. When Latika alleged some land scam in the entire issue connected to the Congress , some of the opposition party legislators strongly objected to it.
 
 On this, minister Sharma, who was responding to the question, said Haryana Police had got some very “strong material” regarding the alleged irregularities in the entire issue and the government had decided to get the matter probed by the state vigilance bureau.
 
 The cement factory — Bhupendra Cement Works, which had the distinction of having supplied cement for Bhakra Dam construction — was established at Surajpur near Pinjore by the   of the ruler of erstwhile Patiala princely state in 1937. The factory later became a part of the ACC that continued its operations till 1997, when it was closed due to environmental concerns.
 
 Around 615 workers, however, were allegedly denied around Rs 40 crore closure settlement amount by the company. According to the factory workers union, around 122 acre lands worth around Rs 2,000 crore was sold on payment of Rs 197 crore in 2007 to a Mumbai-based renowned builder in contravention to the lease deed of the land executed in 1937.
 
 On December 16, 2014, a complaint was given to Prime Minister   by the factory workers association for a CBI probe into the entire issue. Finally, on October 17, 2017, Pinjore police had registered a case for cheating, criminal conspiracy, breach of trust and other similar sections in relation to the allegations on the basis of a complaint received from Beni Prasad, president of the workers union and others. The matter was pending for investigation till date.
 
 
