PUNE: The patience of more than 200 people — who had booked tickets on two   — was sorely tested by delays and cancellation on Monday.

 A flight from Pune to Bengaluru (G8-293) was first delayed and then cancelled, while a flight from Pune to Nagpur (G8-283) was delayed by three-and-a-half hours. 
  
  
 In fact, passengers booked on flight No. 293 — originally scheduled for take-off at 1.25am on Monday — were made to wait for more than three hours before they were told the flight was called off. “Around 11.15pm, the airline sent a message stating that the departure was delayed to 2.55am. Then, at 1.19am, we got a text message saying the flight was cancelled. When we enquired with GoAir authorities, we were told an alternative flight was being arranged from Bengaluru. 10 minutes later, they took back our boarding passes, bizarrely stating a lack of pilots,” said Abhilash Sanap. 
 
 He said some passengers were given refunds, while others were transferred to other flights (of other airlines) or given hotel accommodation. “In the morning, they told us we would have to go to Mumbai and then fly to Bengaluru at 2.30pm. So I have been moving across two airports for more than 12 hours now,” a frustrated   said.
 
 The passengers on flight No. 283 alleged they were informed of the delay too late. “The flight has been re-scheduled for departure at 11am against its timing of 7.40am. And the information has been sent by the airline at 7am,” Sandip Raje had tweeted. 
 
 The airline blamed operational and technical glitches. “Flight G8-293 was cancelled due to operational reasons ... All passengers were taken care of. GoAir accommodated some passengers on alternate flights as per availability; some were provided hotel accommodation for the night at Pune and put on flights the next morning. Flight number G8-283 was delayed due to technical reasons in Bengaluru; an alternate aircraft that was organized got delayed due to NOTAM in Pune. All passengers were provided alternate travel options. The flight (became) airborne from Pune at 11.10,” a GoAir statement read. 
 
 
