NEW DELHI:   of ‘Peepli Live’ co-director   in a   has been   in the Supreme Court with the survivor filing an appeal challenging the Delhi high court’s verdict giving the “benefit of doubt” to him.

 The appeal has been filed by the US-based complainant who had alleged that he had oral sex with her against her consent. She approached the apex court through her lawyer Anandita Pujari and the case is likely to be taken up by a bench of Justices S A Bobde and L Nageswara Rao on Friday.
 
 Challenging the HC verdict, the complainant said the HC erred in acquitting the   in the case and there was sufficient evidence against him. In a controversial verdict, the HC had said “No” might not always mean no and that there were examples of “woman’s behavior (where)... a feeble ‘no’ may mean a ‘yes’ in cases of past intimacy”. The 35-year-old woman had alleged that Farooqui, a writer, director and story-teller, had raped her at his Delhi home on March 28, 2015.
 
 A fast-track court had in 2016 sentenced Farooqui to a 7-year term. Quashing the trial court order, the HC found the claim of rape unreliable, noting that the woman had faked an orgasm during the alleged crime, justifying it on the grounds that she feared violence similar to the Nirbhaya case if she resisted. “In an act of passion, actuated by libido, there could be myriad circumstances which can surround a consent and it may not necessarily always mean ‘yes’ in case of ‘yes’ or ‘no’ in case of no,” the HC had held.
 
 In the judgement, HC had also taken into account factors such as past intimacy between Farooqui and the woman, noting that they had kissed twice in the past. It remains in doubt, the court said, “as to whether such an incident (the rape)... took place, and if at all it had taken place, (whether) it was without her consent, and if it was without her consent, whether the appellant could discern/understand the same”.
 
 Citing the woman’s testimony in the trial court, the HC had noted that “physical contact with Farooqui in the nature of a kiss or a hug was being accepted by her without any protest”. The HC discussed how in early February 2015, the complainant met Farooqui at Hauz Khas village with a friend, where he was drunk. 
 
 The HC had also noted that Farooqui’s wife had read the communication between her husband and the woman and informed her that he was under a rehabilitation regime for a bipolar mental condition. The trial court had observed that Farooqui had taken advantage of the situation when the victim was alone in his house. Police had on June 19, 2015, lodged an FIR against Farooqui and arrested him. On July 29, 2015, police filed chargesheet against Farooqui alleging he had raped the research scholar from Columbia University.
 
 
