CHANDIGARH: In a respite to patients suffering from life-threatening disabilities who were left in the lurch due to a change of policy by the   ( ), the   and   high court has stuck down the denial of healthcare to such affected patients, some of them battling for life in hospitals.

 The ECHS — when introduced in 2002 — had kept under its purview the admissibility of healthcare to dependent children of ex-servicemen until the age of 25. However, the age limit was not applicable to children physically or mentally disabled, and unable to earn a livelihood. Such children were granted lifetime healthcare entitlement cards.
 
 However, the facilities were withdrawn from such dependants abruptly in 2017 on the ground that under the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) applicable to civilians, it had been clarified that such benefits would only be granted to those suffering from disabilities such as blindness and locomotor disabilities, as mentioned in Section 2 of the Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995. Based on the communication, healthcare was withdrawn from petitioners   and Satendar Kumar Chauhan, who were undergoing regular dialysis for renal failure, and they were asked to surrender their cards.
 
 Challenging the decision, they filed a writ petition averring that once they had been granted facilities ‘for life’, those could not be withdrawn by way of a retrospective operation of a new policy. The petitioners also pointed out that the Persons with Disabilities Act and ECHS operated in different fields, since the intention of ECHS was to provide healthcare to contributing members, while that of the Act was to provide equal opportunities to disabled persons in employment, education, and access to public spaces, and the action did not have any connection with the objective sought to be achieved.
 
 Allowing the petition, the bench of Justice   has directed the continuance of medical facilities to the affected children, further holding that any future change cannot be applied retrospectively by taking away the life-long facilities already granted to patients. The court has observed: “Law cannot be changed retrospectively other than by legislative action, and even if the legislature has the power to legislate retrospective laws, it cannot take away accrued rights.” The high court has further observed that “the respondents have attempted to tacitly extinguish the rights of the petitioner in a retrospective manner, and that too through an administrative action, which is clearly impermissible in law.”
 
 
