CHANDIGARH : The Punjab and   high court has made it clear that an employee cannot be denied the arrears of salary for the period spent by him out of job before his acquittal in a criminal case under the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. HC passed these orders while setting aside the decision of Haryana police through which a cop was demoted and denied arrears of his salary for the period he remained out of employments on account of his implication in a criminal case.

 “If the police department initiates criminal action against the members of its own force and fails to secure conviction on a criminal charge, then the prosecution department is responsible for the agony of trial and judicial custody and the period spent during the trial. The innocence of the petitioner is declared by virtue of the order of HC from the date of registration of FIR…. If that is so, then the petitioner cannot be made to suffer nonpayment of the arrears of salary on the principle of ‘No Work No Pay.’ In such a case, this principle will not apply,” HC has held.
 
 Justice   of the HC passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by   alias  , an employee of Haryana police. He had challenged the order passed on June 24, 2016 by the IGP (railways and commando) Haryana through which he was demoted from the post of ASI to head constable and was also denied arrears of salary because he was booked in an old case and had to stay inside jail.
 
 Though he was later acquitted from the charges by the HC but while reinstating him in the job, police department denied payment of arrears of salary for the period of absence till reinstatement. He was also demoted by one rank. The petitioner had approached the HC for grant of back wages from the period he remained out of service in view of his acquittal of the criminal charges.
 
 Hearing his contentions, the HC, in its detailed order released on April 23, ordered to set aside the police department’s decision of denying arrears of salary and demoting the petitioner to head constable without holding disciplinary proceedings. It further ordered the department to pay the arrears of salary be calculated and paid to the petitioner within three months.
 
 
