LUDHIANA: Even though senior officials of the Punjab government on Monday claimed that the state industrial policy was far better than that of any other state,   representatives who returned from   after a meeting over setting up of factories said the state government can’t match the offers being made by the Bihar government.

 The businessmen have now decided to organise a meeting of their respective associations and other businessmen from the city who would be interested in setting up factories in Bihar.
 
 The agenda of the meeting will be to ascertain how much land is required by the industrialists and what other requirements they want the Bihar government to fulfil, besides subsidies and incentives already being offered by the government.
 
 Harish Dua, president, Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, who led the delegation of businessmen to Patna, said, “We will hold a meeting next week of prospective businessmen who are interested in setting up factories in Bihar. In addition to garment manufacturers, we are also receiving queries from other allied industries like dyeing and yarn manufacturing who are interested to know more about the package being offered by Bihar.”
 
 Dua said the overall offers of Bihar government cannot be matched by Punjab government and “therefore it makes more sense to set up new units in Bihar.”
 
 “One of the most important aspects is availability of developed land that too in approved industrial area and at a cost of Rs 18 lakh per acre for 99-year lease, which makes the lease amount just Rs 18,000 per year. There is no such lease scheme in Punjab and therefore if a businessman has to set up a factory in 1 acre in Ludhiana today, only the land would cost him fortunes. Besides, the interest subvention scheme under which Bihar government will pay off interest on our bank loans up to Rs 20 crore for initial five years is praiseworthy in itself.”
 
 Pawan Garg, garment manufacturer, who was part of the delegation, said, “We are hopeful that we will be able to file an expression of interest with Bihar government by next month and it is very likely that the number of investors ready to set up new units in Bihar may touch 50. We will organise a meeting with all the prospective investors and try to reach a consensus on whether or not anything else is required in the package being offered to us. After that, we will organise a final meeting with the officials of Bihar government.”
 
 Arvind Goyal, city-based garment exporter, said, “The plus point of setting up of garment units in Bihar is that more than 75% of labour for industry comes from Bihar and neighbouring states and if we have units there we will not have to face any kind of labour shortage which is becoming common phenomena here. Moreover, the wages in Bihar for both skilled and unskilled labour are lower as compared to Punjab.
 
 D P S  , director, industries and commerce, said, “Our industrial policy is far ahead than any other state. We offer 100% exemption of state GST for seven years which is not there in other state. Secondly we have waived stamp duty, CLU and even property tax for the new units.”
 
 “People are enthusiastic in investing in Punjab and it is evident from the fact that we signed a MoU worth Rs 2,265 crore in single day in World Food India Conference held recently in Delhi. Like Bihar, we too offer land on lease on demand. Moreover, Punjab government has pooled land of public sector undertakings and merged these into Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation. Now you name any place in Punjab and you can get the land at reserve price,” he added.
 
 “As far as the question of 99-year lease offered by Bihar is concerned, we have chunks of land available at far lesser rate, which depends upon the kind of industry and where the land is required. Our policy is just 45-day old. We know people will come to know of its merits once they take a plunge. As far as the proposal of Bihar government is concerned, I can only say that the businessmen should go into merits of industrial policies of both the states and then take a call,” added Kharbanda. 
 
