MOHALI: An aspiring Punjabi singer, aged 22, was found shot dead with five bullet injuries to his body, all in the torso, in a vacant plot on Barwala road, near  , here on Sunday night.

 Police said the body of   was found in a pool of blood when they reached the crime scene, 2km from his home in Berha village. As per the post-mortem report, victim was shot at pointblank range.
 
 
  
 
 Cops are looking at multiple angles in the   case. They suspect it to be a case of a love affair gone wrong or property dispute. They have ruled out any gang connection. Three bullet shells and two live cartridges of a .9mm pistol have been recovered. Navjot’s car, a Nissan Micra, was found a few metres from his body. His father, Sukhbir Singh, and a cousin found the body around 12.15am and they informed the police around 1am. They had ventured out to search for Navjot, after he did not respond to phone calls.
 
 Assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Harmandeep Hans said Navjot, who went by the stage name Issapuria Virk, was shot between 11pm and 12am on Sunday, when he was returning home after band practice at Eco City in  . Navjot was still a struggling artiste. He is survived by his parents and a sister.
 
 A team from Derabassi police station reached the spot. Forensic experts and crime investigation agency (CIA) were also called in to collect evidence. ASP Hans added they were yet to ascertain the weapons used in the crime. “All bullets are of a .9mm width; it is used in many weapons, including country-made ones,” the cop added.
 
 
 
 
 Sukhbir said his son left for band practice around 3pm. “He last spoke to his mother around 11pm. He had been learning music for two years,” he said. All five bullets pierced singer Navjot Singh’s body, according to the autopsy report. According to the document, the body had entry and exit bullet wounds. This, said the report, indicated that Navjot was shot at pointblank range.
 
 Navjot Singh’s friends informed that he was working on a new song and it was almost ready. One of them said Navjot, who went by the stage name Issapuria Virk, had spent around Rs10 lakh on the track. “He had already three songs,” he said.
 
 The investigating officer, Narinder Kumar, said they had registered a case of murder.
 
 
