NAGPUR: Special judge SS Deshpande on Tuesday issued bailable warrant to  , former deputy SP of Nagpur unit’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), to enforce his appearance before him on January 4.

 The judge, appointed in the special court to deal with corruption cases, was miffed as Kolwadkar had remained absent on Tuesday even after the court asking him to remain present to furnish his opinion into the discharge applications of 12 accused in the recruitment scam of   (Mafsu). The case was registered in 2012 after an inquiry which lasted for around two years. 
 
 Kolwadkar, who was investigating the case, had filed a chargesheet in 2015.
 
 There was a drama in the court room after the judge expressed his disappointment in stringent words over Kolwadkar’s absence. Additional SPs (in-charge)   and Milind Totre were at the receiving end of the judge’s wrath. The court learnt to have asked Mahulkar to bring his superior before the court. As Mahulkar said SP PR Patil was outstation, the court issued the bailable warrant against the former deputy SP in his presence.
 
 Earlier, the local ACB top brass was rattled after the judge nearly issued a non-bailable warrant against Kolwadkar to enforce his appearance before him on January 4. Kolwadkar is now posted as vigilance officer of RTO in Mumbai.
 
 The court had issued summons for Kolwadkar’s appearance towards the end of December last year. Special public prosecutor   too had communicated the court’s summons for Kolwadkar to the ACB office. Kolwadkar, who was present before a different judge on December 4 in the same matter, opted to stay out as the unit had named a fresh investigation officer after his transfer. 
 
 An offence against almost 50 people, including the then Mafsu vice-chancellor Dr Arun Ninawe, was registered by ACB in 2012 for various irregularities in recruitment and misuse of official position and power. There was an enquiry into the matter for around two years before the case was registered.
 
 ACB had dropped charges against 37 people. The chargesheet, made by Kolwadkar, was sent before the court only against 13 out of 50 accused. In the meantime, one of the accused died. The remaining 12 accused, including Ninawe, appealed for discharge around a year ago. The application for discharge, pending before the court for one year, is yet to be decided.
 
 It is learnt that a team of ACB has already left for Mumbai to serve the warrant to Kolwadkar in person. The ACB also requested the court to give some other date, but the judge opted to stick to his earlier diktat.
 
 
