BENGALURU: From inter-connected CCTV cameras and mini Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT), a slew of cutting-edge technologies will soon be employed in   to make it the city’s and state’s first smart ward.

 The government has joined hands with defence   (BEL), whose homeland security and smart business unit will implement the project on a pilot basis.
 
 “The ward is adjoining BEL, and the idea is to show the project’s feasibility. If the ward works efficiently, the initiative will eventually be scaled, first across Bengaluru and then in other parts of the state,” a source from BEL said. So far, the plan is to provide both governing agencies and citizens a host of interlinked facilities to create a better ward, added the source.
 
 BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad confirmed the development and said: “The pilot will be executed in ward number 10. Right now, the plan is for BEL to implement the project and show us that it can be emulated in other wards.”
 
 Officially called Doddabommasandra, ward number 10 is more commonly known as Vidyaranyapura.
 
 “The idea entails putting in place smart signalling systems for traffic movement, an inter-linked CCTV camera network that enables police to track movement of both people and vehicles across the ward, use of technology for continuous monitoring and review of ongoing projects — this may include use of mini UAVs — and a host of other IoT and AI technologies,” the source said.
 
 As far as citizens are concerned, the source said special software applications are being developed to make the ward completely automated. “An entire repository of information about the ward will be available on their smartphones,” the source added.
 
 The objective is to provide citizens complete access: They should be able to know where to rush to in case of a snake bite, or which doctor is available at what time, or why just three houses on the street have no power. “Besides, systems for smart management of stormwater drains, rainwater harvesting and other infrastructure projects are also being built,” the source said. Both BEL and the BBMP didn’t want to reveal the project’s cost, which they claimed will be launched this month.
 
 Meanwhile, the   government is actively pushing the use of UAVs in governance, and is considering places like Sarjapur in Bengaluru, Badami municipality in Bagalkot district and   district — based on recommendations of the   — for implementation.
 
 
  
 
 
