The latest episode of   starts with   entering Arjun's room with ice cream and decides to follow the RJ's advise. Aditya starts searching for   who is not in his room and decides to wait. Meanwhile, he gets an idea of calling and asking about Mahi's wounds. He then calls   and tries to get some reaction from her. Zoya picks his call and starts shouting at him for calling late at night. Meanwhile,   walks in Zoya's room and asks her who it is. Mahi gets happy as she comes to know that Aditya called and is concerned for her. 

 In another scene, Arjun talks to his colleagues at the radio station and informs them about a new intern that he requires at work. Noor is hunting for a job and hears an announcement which says that a famous jockey requires an intern. In the morning, Aditya wakes up and finds Arjun beside him and he asks to wake him up. 
 
 Aditya reaches office and sees Mahi entering and she waves her hand happily. Aditya ignores her but as he sees Zoya walking up behind her, he starts having an intimate conversation with Mahi. Zoya gets uncomfortable seeing Aditya and Mahi talking and she takes away Mahi. Later as Zoya is busy in a meeting with her colleagues, she notices that Aditya is smiling at Mahi. Meanwhile, Mahi gets a call and even Aditya gets a call. Zoya thinks that Aditya called Mahi and she sees both of them walking out of the office. She starts following them and feels that Aditya will cause harm to Mahi.
 
 But Aditya was speaking to Arjun, who came to give his wallet and Mahi is talking to Birju. Later, Arjun notices that Mahi is talking to someone and tells Aditya about this. He hears Mahi's conversation and is shocked to know that she has stooped to such a level. 
 
 Aditya confronts her but Zoya stops him and takes away Mahi along with her. Zoya screams at Aditya and tells him to stay away from her. But Aditya smiles and thinks that Zoya has asked him to stay away, but he will come close to her. 
 On the other hand, Mahi is worried about Aditya telling Zoya everything, she pulls Aditya and tells him that she will explain it all to him. But Aditya tries to calm her down and says that she is not a bad person and ask her if she wants him to save her. Mahi is impressed with Aditya's gesture and is lost in his thoughts.
 
 
