Nagpur: Aiming to promote the notion of self-development along with social development, social organization ‘Udaan — Ek Jhep’ organized the third edition of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam memorial   competition 2017 on the topic ‘Justice delayed is justice denied’ at Sai Sabhagruh, Shankar Nagar, on Saturday. Girish Gandhi, president of Vidarbha Gaurav Pratishthan (VGP), celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar and Khan Musib Ahmad, former deputy revenue commissioner were the chief guests.

 More than 50 participants took part in the competition which tested their knowledge of the judiciary system in the country. Ankush Mankar won the first prize while Deepali Tekama and Aniruddha Mahajan came second and third. Samruddhi Khamgaonke and Vyankatesh Naidu won consolation prizes.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Gandhi said, “Today’s generation possess opportunities that were not available in the yesteryears. Different sectors and career opportunities have come up that no one could imagine earlier, But, the same has come at a price. The fierce competition, though has raised the quality, it has also raised the unemployment. Young minds must work hard and make full use of the opportunities laid before them to hone their skills and be ready to face the world.”
 
 Manohar said that youngsters must be aware of the happenings in the country and world. He added that such events help participants broaden their perspective and understand the world views. Khan echoed the views adding that youth is the future of the country, hence they must open their minds and educate themselves to develop self and the society.
 
 Each participant was given five minutes and they had to talk on the topic about their views on justice and its timely occurrence. Quoting various examples of delayed justice in the past they expressed their point of view on repeated incidents of injustice and the drawbacks of untimely procurement of right decision.
 
 Secretary Ajinkya Aney said, “Our main aim is to provide a platform to the youth to speak and share their views. We help a person build his/her personality before working to change the society. The selected topic resonates with the public and guides them to acknowledge the reality of life.”
 
 ends
 
 
