KOLKATA: The death of a senior Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) professor, C A Murthy, in an accident in front of the campus on BT Road on Wednesday night has brought the lens back on the spot that has long been a veritable death trap for pedestrians and motorists alike. When TOI visited the accident-prone area on Thursday, ISI students, faculty members and staffers could not have complained more about how the stretch between the Dunlop flyover and the Bonhooghly crossing on the Shyambazar-bound BT Road had become a nightmare. For them, walking across to enter their campus on the opposite side is a risk that they have to take every day.

 Pedestrians face a similar situation at BT Road’s   crossing, where vehicles converge on the spot from Barrackpore and Dakshineswar.
 
 
 Residents of the area pointed out that the location of the Dunlop flyover just before the ISI main entrance made the stretch perilous. Be it a car, a bus or a truck, the driver speeding down the elevated corridor never slowed down even as he headed for the first crossing after the flyover where ISI’s main entrance, popularly known as Gate 203, was situated. Moreover, vehicles plying below the flyover also meet at the same point. Murthy’s colleague professor   said, “It’s a matter of life and death waiting for buses or autos on the Shyambazarbound flank of BT Road opposite our institute’s main entrance.” Headed for home on Wednesday evening, Murthy was trying to board an auto at that very spot on BT Road, when a private bus speeding down the Dunlop flyover crushed him under the wheel.
 
 Professor Bhargav B. Bhattacharya, another colleague of Murthy, said, “This 120m stretch between the point where Dunlop flyover descends onto BT Road and the first crossing in front of ISI’s main gate is a death trap. The danger zone extends further from this crossing along the Shyambazar-bound flank right up to the Tobin Road crossing. Buses, trucks and autos converge on the spot from Barrackpore and Dakshineswar. Traffic cops hardly man this stretch despite repeated requests. Buses race to overtake each other. Those walking across BT Road from Gate 203 or waiting for a bus and auto opposite the ISI’s entrance can get knocked down at any moment.” Sodepur’s Snighdhendu Banerjee, who studies at ISI in the second year, takes almost 15-20 minutes to walk across the road to reach enter the ISI campus. “Police should take immediate action to discipline traffic,” he said.
 
 ISI sources claimed the spot had witnessed several accidents, most victims belonging to their institute. In 2015, former chief administrator of the institute S K Iyer suffered multiple fractures after a bus knocked him down. Former ISI professor   told TOI, “In December 2008, a bike hit me. I sustained deep head injuries and my right femur bone was fractured. I still can’t walk properly.” Her colleague Krishna Dutta was run over by a truck a couple of years later.
 
 DCP (zone II) of Barrackpore police   admitted to the mess that the stretch is: “We’re looking to set up a traffic guard at the point where the flyover meets BT Road. But after an intense Safe Drive Save Life campaign, fatal accidents have declined here.”
 
 Times View
 
 There needs to be some area-specific plans around big educational institutions. Traffic on B T Road has become more disciplined over the years but, as this death shows, there needs to be much stricter monitoring of the usual culprits (like buses and autos).
 
