PANAJI: The days of the ubiquitous   milk bags and plastic bags for fish are numbered with chief minister Manohar   announcing that all polyvinyl chloride-based (PVC) plastic bags will be banned in the state by December 19, this year. Parrikar promised to come out with a legislation to tackle plastic and announced that the phasing out of plastic in the state would start from January 26.

 “Phasing out of plastic will commence on January 26. By May 30 the second phase will commence. When I say plastic, I am referring to PVC-based plastic,” Parrikar said, while inaugurating the waste management facility at Patto, which has been built by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) at a cost of Rs 3 crore.
 
 “The law will apply for milk bags. Companies will have to change their packaging to biodegradable plastic,” Parrikar said.
 
 Speaking on Liberation Day in December, Parrikar had said that the state would be free of   by December 19, 2018. He had announced that food packaging and the use of plastic bags for marketing would be banned, but pharmaceutical products would be exempt.
 
 Parrikar asked companies that manufacture or sell plastic bags to look at biodegradable bags.
 
 “Now there are plastics available that are degradable. So, if somebody wants to take their own bags to buy fish, they can still use bags, only these will be made of starch. PVC-based plastic bags will be banned and by December 19 no plastic packing will be allowed. We will bring in a law,” Parrikar said.
 
 Parrikar added that the use of starch to make bags is beneficial because the cost of these bags is close to that of plastic bags, with the advantage that they decompose in 60-100 days. “Let us make Goa free of plastic because it is the biggest problem we face,” Parrikar said.
 
 The chief minister also proposed to introduce a new triple layer membrane technology to treat garbage at the new organic and slaughter waste treatment facility opened behind Heera petrol pump near KTC circle.
 
 “Once this is implemented here, the garbage handling capacity will be increased to 15-20 tons per day. It will take care of half of Panaji’s wet and organic waste,” Parrikar said.
 
 Parrikar also announced that the government would crack down on dumping of debris along highways and roads. “I am also warning those truck owners who dump debris along the highways and main roads. From January 26 their trucks could be confiscated or a stiff fine will be imposed,” Parrikar said.
 
 
