AHMEDABAD:   issued by city police became a political issue ahead of the elections last year as parts of the city, especially in the east, threatened to boycott the polls over the issue. The state government suspended the system temporarily and assured citizens that it would not make a comeback till installation of cameras under City Surveillance and Intelligent Traffic Management System ( ) was complete. The system is slated for a reboot in late March or early April.

 City police, in a report submitted to the state government, stated that only 2.8% of those who  , issued at the rate of about 6,000 challans per day at peak capacity, had filed complaints. Complaints ranged from wrong number of vehicle, wrong offence mentioned, duplicate challans and unclear photographs. However, only 20% of challans have been paid. If one considers the number of complaints to the challans issued, the number of disputed challans is less than 1%.
 
 A senior police official said the system has brought transparency and a way to identify habitual offenders. “Fixing of cameras at major junctions is under way. The net will be wider once it makes a comeback. We have considered citizens’ suggestions but the definition of a violation can’t be changed. If someone uses a vehicle outside their home, they will have to follow traffic rules,” said the official.
 
 50m from crossroads declared  
 
 A notification issued by the city police commissioner on Saturday declared the area of 50m from all sides of crossroads ‘No Parking’ zones. According to the notification, the decision was taken as illegal parking more often than not causes traffic bottlenecks near crossroads. The only exception will be pay and park areas already established by the AMC. Except for public service vehicles such as ambulances and fire brigade vehicles, all vehicles are covered under the notification and they will not be allowed to park even for a short while. No Parking zone boards will soon be installed by   for the purpose of this notification.
 
 
