Board exams are known to evoke a sense of fear among students. Hitherto evaluated by their teachers, students are for the first time being assessed by people they do not know. And while the red nib of the unknown evaluator may worry students as the day of results approaches, new changes in the examination pattern across different boards from this year have added to those worries.

 With the   season starting this week, counsellors said it was important for children to accept the changes and deal with them in a healthy manner.
 
 
  
 
 After the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation ( ) system was scrapped last year, CBSE students from Class VI to Class X will for the first time in eight years write annual exams covering lessons taught throughout the year. Earlier, students would prepare for frequent tests and two main exams split with 50% of the syllabi. The new system has done away with the option of school-based exams for Class X students who now will have to prepare for the compulsory board exam.
 
 “We have a lot more to read than our seniors. Exam preparation now involves large portions that we were not used to earlier. We have been used to CCE all these years, but now it is a sudden change,” said a Class X student of Bala Vidya Mandir School in Adyar.
 
 Uniformity in examination and assessment patterns from Class VI had triggered mixed reactions. “Following objections to CBSE applying the same rules from Class VI to VIII, the board had withdrawn the earlier circular issued in April and given the freedom to schools to follow the annual exam pattern or frame their own pattern. However, most schools in   are following the annual exam routine,” said  , advisor to Chennai Sahodaya School Complex.
 
 State board students too are not a relaxed lot as they prepare for three consecutive years of board exams at Classes X, XI and XII. The government introduced board exams for Class XI for the first time, it will start from March 7.
 
 Dealing with such changes might not be easy, but it is essential that students learn to adapt, said counsellors.
 
 “How we adapt is important because it shows our capability to graduate to the next level. Change is very important for transformation so learn to perceive it in the positive way,” said a counsellor from 104 health helpline.
 
 The counsellor said children must remember that they were not alone in facing these changes. “But if the student is extremely stressed, teachers and parents must make the child feel comfortable,” the counsellor said.
 
