PUDUCHERRY: Puducherry-based archaeologist and   (TAC) assistant professor (history) Ravitchandirane Perumal and his students, have excavated the remains of the   Fort, believed to have been built by the French in 1704 in the Union territory. 

 The   East India Company demolished the   fort completely after it crushed the French East India Company in the third Carnatic War in 1761.
 
 Ravitchandirane and his students, who unearthed the remains on Thursday after a 10-day effort, propose to undertake similar excavations at various sites in the present-day Bharathi Park, where the magnificent fort once stood. The aim is to unearth the remains of the fort wall and floor of the chambers behind the fort wall. Government Museum and TAC’s department of history had jointly launched this ambitious project.
 
 “This is the first time archaeological remains of any structure of 1700AD is excavated in  . The entire town was razed by the British in the Carnatic War,” said Ravitchandirane.
 
 Outlining the colonial history of Puducherry, Ravitchandirane said the Dutch were the first imperialists to reach Puducherry and establish a town with a small fort, in as early as the 1600s. The French later received Puducherry from the Dutch in 1700.
 
 “The French constructed a massive fort and named it after Louis XIV in 1704. The star-shaped fort had chambers that were used for storing arms and ammunition. The fort was surrounded by a moat, a deep ditch with water. The present-day petit canal and grand canal in the town were once rivers, that were fed by bigger rivers in the adjoining region, via present-day Krishna Nagar and Saram. The French also raised huge walls around the town,” he said.
 
 After Puducherry was razed down by the British, the French rebuilt the town over the ruins in the 1800s. The French established the la Rade et Phare (port and lighthouse) with Aye Mandapam in the centre of the fort’s ruins. The Puducherry government would later establish the park currently standing on the historic site, and name it after revolutionary Tamil bard Subramania Bharathi.
 
 The team, during the course of excavations, also unearthed remains of la Rade et Phare. Ravitchandirane has undertaken several similar excavations in and around Puducherry and was a part of the team headed by archaeologist Vimala Begley, who excavated Arikamedu, an erstwhile port which flourished during ancient times (between 1BC and 1AD), in the 1990s.
 
 
