With the   over the sale of dead chickens refusing to die, there is not just a decrease in   sales, but also a sharp decline in demand for chicken dishes in restaurants across the city. And that includes Kolkata’s age-old eateries serving iconic dishes like chicken kabiraji and chicken a la Kiev.
Since its inception in 1920, Mitra Café has been known for its chicken kabiraji and chicken dopiaza. But for the last two weeks, after the news of chemical-rigged dead chickens broke, this iconic café has registered a 40% drop in sales in both the items. Explaining the situation, owner Taposh Roy said, “People are afraid as they don’t know what they are eating. We take extra precautions while buying our ingredients but people are not always aware of that. There is a general distrust among people customers”.
 Olypub, the iconic watering hole on Park Street, is facing a similar situation. The authorities said customers are now replacing chicken a la Kiev and fried chicken legs with fish fingers and other items. “This is happening for more than a week and from our past experience, we know this will go on for some more time,” said an official from the bar.
 The sale of chicken   at many Arsalan outlets has also gone down. Different branches of the restaurant have registered a drop of 5% to 10% in chicken dishes, including their famous biryani. “Our customers are not facing any problem because we have a number of fish and mutton dishes. So, people are choosing from these instead,” said Md Shamim, an employee.
  
  
 Constant enquiries
 There are also restaurants like Mocambo and Peter Cat, whose sale of chicken dishes hasn’t gone down, but are facing constant enquiries from customers. The demand for Mocambo’s chicken a la Kiev and Royal’s famous chicken chaanp are the same, but, before ordering chicken dishes, they ask questions regarding the quality of the chicken. Nitin Kothari, owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat, said that the signature dishes in two of his restaurants use chicken extensively. “The chelo kebab at Peter Cat and chicken a la Kiev at Mocambo are very famous and many people visit us just to have these dishes. The demand for these may not have been affected, but their scepticism is growing,” he said.
 Md Irfan, director of Royal Hotel, is experiencing a similar problem. Before ordering chicken biryani or the famous chicken chaanp, people are asking all sorts of questions. “From where do we get our chicken? Do we clean it properly? Once we assure them that our food is safe and explain from where we source our raw material, they seem okay,” said Md Irfan.
  
  
 Special precautions
 Almost all restaurants and eateries are taking special precautions while procuring and cooking chicken items. According to the standard rule at Mocambo and Peter Cat, two employees are responsible for buying raw materials from the market. Now, at the present situation, two more people have been added in the process. “They check the cooked dishes in every possible way, so that our customers do not get a chance to complain,” added Kothari.
 Royal, on the other hand, is buying fresh live chicken from the market and processing it themselves. “We always use fresh chicken and in this scenario, we are taking extra care,” said Md Irfan. Mitra Cafe has also added some extra hands to supervise the procurement of chicken from suppliers.
 
 Small restaurants affected more
 More than the big eateries, the roadside stalls selling rolls and momos are most affected. Raghab Mondal, the owner of one such shop at Ruby junction on EM Bypass, said whenever there is a crisis in chicken supply they face hardships. “Every time bird flu hits, people stop eating chicken. Thank god there is no problem with the eggs this time,” he said.
 
  
 
 
 
