AHMEDABAD: The results of the chartered accountancy final examinations were declared on Wednesday, with Ahmedabad centre recording a passing percentage of 28.33%, compared to the all-India rate of 22.76%.

 The results declared on Wednesday revealed that this year the percentage of successful exam-takers in both the groups was 1.55 percentage points higher than last year. This year, 1,020 students took the exam and 289 of them cleared it. In Group One, the passing percentage this year was 19.73% and in Group Two it was 13.98%. Three students from the Ahmedabad centre made it to the top 50 in the country.
 
  
  Kalyani Mehta: For  , standing 31st in the country and third in Ahmedabad was like history repeating itself. Kalyani said she was among a topper in class X and XII. “In the integrated professional competence course, I ranked 20 in the country and first in  . For me, I have always tried to achieve the best and have done so through my hard work,” she says. Kalyani’s father   is a chartered accountant. She says she be part of the walk-in campus interviews and will join a corporate entity. Kalyani says she is also pursuing the company secretary course.
 
  
  Prapti Pancholi: To give her children the best possible education, Usha Pancholi, a native of Halvad in   district, has been staying in Ahmedabad with her four children. Her daughter Prapti’s hard work was rewarded when she secured the first position in the Ahmedabad centre and the 13th rank in the country. Prapti said, “After the death of my father  , I wanted to achieve something in life and the decided to crack the CA examination. I want to now join a corporate firm and get a god job.” This was Prapti’s best performance and it came in her final year. She said her elder sister is also working after completing her Master of Computer Applications course.
 
  
  Kishankumar Mer: Hailing from the remote area of Bagasara in Saurashtra, Kishankumar Mer says his father Raju owns a stationary shop in Bagasara. “I am staying in Ahmedabad at a rented place to achieve my goal of becoming a chartered accountant. I had to stay in Ahmedabad as there are no facilities in Bagasara.” He said that he had not achieved any rank in class X or XII, but this came as a big surprise. Kishankumar ranked second in Ahmedabad and 29th in the country. Mer also wants to take up a job now and settle down in life.
 
 
