BHOPAL: More than six persons allegedly hijacked and robbed a bus, which was acquired by Bhind district administration to ferry farmers from   in Rajgarh district to   rally in Bhopal on February 12. They allegedly threatened the driver and the conductor by pointing knives at the duo and thrashed them for more than an hour.

 When the bus reached near a petrol pump on Imliya Bypass in Sukhi Sewania, the assailants slowed near a locality and after throwing out the two on road escaped with the bus. The duo informed police and a case of loot was registered against unidentified accused on charges of loot and transferred the case diary to Kurawar police station.
 
 Sukhi Sewania police station SHO Mahendra   said victim conductor  , 48, a resident of Naya Gaon in Bhind district, told police the robbed bus belongs to Sachin Sharma, a resident of Bhind.
 
 Officials instructed driver Mukesh Rathore and I to reach Biaora, from there to Narsinghgarh. When he reached Narsinghgarh on February 11, officials told him they were to take farmers from Kurawar to Bhopal. Officials asked them to stay in bus at night and they would be joined by a couple of others to give them directions to take farmers for the rally. Next day, around 5.30 am , two unidentified men came and woke them up. Without suspecting any foul play, the driver and conductor did as they instructed the two.
 
 After travelling some distance, two more accomplices and later two more accomplices got on the bus posing as farmers. They then forcefully took the bus in their control at knife point and assaulted victims. The driver sustained injures in his hand in his attempt to resist the accused. The accused even took SIM cards of their mobile phone with them. The victims then reached a petrol pump and informed police about the incident on Dial 100. SHO Mishra said, “The Sukhi Sewania police registered a case on victim’s complaint and transferred the case diary to Kurawar police station.”
 
 Talking to TOI, bus owner Sachin Sharma said, “My bus was acquired by the government for official work. No section of obstruction in government work was added to the FIR. I am running from pillar to post, but do not have a clue about the bus or the accused.”
 
