In yet another episode of high decibel drama, Sri Reddy, fed up of being trolled relentlessly by Pawan Kalyan’s fans, gave the actor-politician a dose of his own fans’ medicine. Talking to media at a press conference, she used the choisest of expeltives to address   and called him out for letting his “mob of fans” loose on happless women. “You, Pawan Kalyan, who is thrice-married and has no respect for women, how dare you give us suggestions on what to do... I once called you anna (brother), but I take that back today,” she fumed, before taking her slipper off and slapping herself with it! “From now on, no woman will call you ‘anna’. Pawan Kalyan ma*****od,” she lashed out and raised her middle finger, emphatically, Arjun Reddy-style! It all began, when Pawan Kalyan, thought it is okay to advise   and co., to go to the cops if they have an issue instead of resorting to “sensationalism”. He was referring to Sri Reddy’s month-long tirade against the casting couch menace in  . 

 Incensed by his patronising comments and angry that PK, despite being one of the most influential stars in the industry, refused to address the real issue, Sri Reddy took to social media, yet again, to express her disappointment. And that was enough to earn the ‘wrath’ of Pawan Kalyan fans, who have the dubious reputation of trolling anyone who as much as disagrees with their ‘Power Star’. This time, they went to the extent of issuing rape threats, and threatened to kill Sri Reddy and anyone else who dare to speak against PK. Sample this: “Sri reddy first shut up your va**ina, and learn how to talk with respect. Be careful, you won’t live, If you still speak in this way. If you want money, i will give you a better idea as to open a red-light area in Hyderabad and do business, it is the apt one for the wh**es like you, mind your words “wh**re Sri reddy” read one of the many threats that have been flooding her timeline. 
 
 Though visibly disturbed, Sri Reddy proved that she wasn’t one to cow down in fear. Joining hands with a few fellow artistes, she called for a press conference, to send out a strong message to the actor. “Pawan Kalyan needs to warn his fans; they are not fans, they are a mob of criminals who are hiding behind FB, Twitter and Instagram handles and sending out abusive messages,” thundered Sri Reddy in the presence of many student organisations, political leaders and women’s rights activists. 
 She further added, “If he can’t stop them, I will take legal action against him, and not his fans. His fans have been abusing me on facebook and twitter and his silence is encouraging them.” 
  
 Activist   of Women’s JAC, echoed Sri Reddy’s thoughts. “Nobody can tell a woman how she should protest; the fact that she has to come out on the streets to protest is a grave matter in itself. it’s because women have lost faith in the system that they are voicing their concerns this way,” she said.
 
 The activists and junior cine artistes said they were miffed with the fact that despite being a politician now, Pawan Kalyan wasn’t acting responsibly. “He must realise he is a politician now, he can’t feign innocence and disassociate from his fans. Just like how we as commoners respect all politicians, even if they have a different ideology, he should respect us and rein in his fans,” said Sajaya.
 pointing out the actor’s lack of clarity, she added, “He came on the streets to demand action in the case of the 8-year-old Kathua rape victim, and asked women to react to harassment immediately and not be quiet. But when we protest about our harassment and speak up, he says go to the police. Why this double standards for women in the film industry?” 
 Vowing to continue her protest, Sri Reddy added that they will not take it lying down if Pawan Kalyan cannot control his reckless fans. “I will not apologise to Pawan Kalyan (for abusing him). respect is a two-way street. The most horrible things have been said to me and the women who are with me in this fight. Don’t we deserve respect? Is it only Pawan Kalyan’s mother who deserves respect.”
 
