Prasailing on land was a crowd puller at the three-day Adventure Sports organised on the   in Tuticorin. However, aqua sailing on water was not performed at the beach and could not be performed either on   due to strong wind. This disappointed tourists and enthusiasts who wanted to have a first-hand experience of it.

 The free adventure sports event was jointly organised by the district administration along with Indian Aero Sports and Science and was sponsored by SPIC. However, there was disappointment among enthusiasts as only two of the five events – parasailing and commando net – were organised at Harbour Beach. On the other hand only zorbing and river crossing were organised at Manapad.
 
 More than 170 people participated in the parasailing event at the Harbour Beach. Interestingly, more than 50% of them were women. On Sunday, many women, including college girls and adults took part in the adventure sport. All the participants underwent a basic health check-up before tokens were issued to them to participate in the event.
 
 Director of Indian Aero Sports and Science ‘Glider’ Babu told TOI that the response was very good at Harbour Beach. "On the first day, we used a four-wheeler for parasailing. Since the wind was strong it posed a threat of the vehicle getting lifted. So we started using a tractor on the second and third day. This gave a steady and enjoyable ride for the participants on the beach," he said.
 
 J Priyanga, 22, an MA English Literature student from   in Tuticorin, who had a long wait for her turn to parasail, said, "The view from above was very nice." Her cousin A Vajra, 16, a Plus-One student, was lucky to enjoy parasailing on Saturday and Sunday too.
 
 While around 70 people managed to parasail on Sunday, a section of those who were issued tokens but could not fly due to poor light picked a quarrel with the organisers and district administration officials. The enthusiasts alleged that the officials permitted their relatives to fly without tokens and denied chance to those who underwent medical check-up, got tokens and waited for hours.
 
 
