In his illustrious career of more than 2 decades,   actor   has finally won his first ever Screen Actors Guild award. The 59-year-old actor won the Best Actor award at this year's star-studded ceremony for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in Joe Wright's 'Darkest Hour'.

  
  
 In his acceptance speech, the 'Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy' star thanked SAG-AFTRA for the honour and said that he is thrilled and overjoyed to be in the room tonight with such amazing fellow actors. He said, "There are giants of acting in this room tonight. Two of them share my table:   and  . Robert DeNiro, Morgan Freeman and of course the extraordinary, my old sparring partner, Denzel Washington".
 
  The star concluded his speech with a quote from Churchill. Oldman concluded by saying, "They are telling me to wrap up, and that very sad music seems to follow me everywhere, so I will just say that Winston Churchill reminds us that we make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we have given".
 
  He previously won Best actor in a drama at the Golden Globes for 'Darkest Hour'. Oldman beat out fellow nominees Denzel Washington for 'Roman J. Israel, Esq.', Timothee Chalamet for  , Daniel Kaluuya for 'Get Out', and James Franco for 'The Disaster Artist'.
 
  Meanwhile,  's portrayal of a grieving, outraged mother in 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' has landed her the SAG award for Best Female actor in a leading role. McDormand began her speech by saying, "Golly gee whiz. I have a couple things to said.
 
  Touching on the importance of 'representation' in the entertainment industry, the actress shared, "We, those tireless men and women who represent us truly, our desires, our dreams, our individual strengths and our ethical beliefs, to them, we owe a great deal. To mine, Frank, Brian, Simon: Full credit, gentlemen, full credit."
 
  The actress also praised the director of the film and shared that "he just didn't string together a few words, but meticulously crafted a tsunami and then allowed his troupe of actors to surf it into the shore". McDormand concluded her speech by saying, "I also want to say this is really great and I thank you. I come out of the woods every few years and you invite me to the party, but there are a lot of young ones coming up and they need doorstops, too. Let's think about that."
 
  The star previously won the award for her performance in 'Fargo' more than 20 years ago. The actress beat a trio of serious Oscar contenders in Sally Hawkins ('The Shape of Water'), Margot Robbie ('I, Tonya'), and   ('Lady Bird'), as well as two-time SAG Award winner   ('Victoria & Abdul'). 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
