AHMEDABAD: The 15-minute ‘bulletin’ by Asaram sent from inside  , after he was convicted of raping a minor girl, has made the   seek a way to prevent recording of such calls by persons at the other end of the call.

  
  Asaram’s call from Jodhpur Jail was recorded from the other end and circulated among his followers and ashrams across the country. In the audio clip, Asaram is heard saying that first he will get Sharat Chandra and Shilpi out of the jail, and then he will work his way out. Asaram says in the audio, “ Taja bulletin sabhi ashram ko bhej do” ( Send this fresh bulletin to all ashrams across the country).
 
 Jodhpur jail authorities said they had a staff meeting on Sunday in which the issue was discussed. “We have now identified a loophole in the system, and until the whole system is made foolproof, calls from jail have been discontinued,” said DIG Jails (Rajasthan) , Vikramsingh Karnavat.
 
 Karnavat said they have also de-registered the number of one Jadhavani Nishant to which Asaram had had made the call from Jodhpur jail’s official STD on April 27.
 
 During the meeting, it was also pointed out that if someone from the other end dials a conference call then the prisoner can easily talk with someone who has not been registered or verified by the ATS, DIG Karnavat said.
 
 “We have to sort out the issues and only then we will resume the phone service for inmates. We will report the loopholes to the DGP, Prisons (Rajashtan) on Monday. The report can be forwarded by the DGP Prison’s office to the government to take a decision,” said DIG Karnavat.
 
 Meanwhile, Asaram’s official spokesperson Neelam Dubey told TOI that Asaram had registered his request two days before the phone call, but as the waiting list was long he could make the call only on April 27.
 
 “According to the rules, we were informed about the time of the call and four to five followers of Asaram gathered at one place, recorded the call and circulated it,” said Dubey.
 
 In the audio clip, Asaram is heard expressing his gratitude to his followers for maintaining calm and rushing to Jodhpur on the verdict day. He is also heard cautioning people not to do politics regarding the alleged rape case, and giving a warning that some people are conspiring to take control of his ashrams.
 
 When Dubey was asked about who is conspiring and who framed Asaram in the case, she said that the people who have left the ashram could be behind the conspiracy to frame Asaram and take control of his ashrams across the country.
 
 
