Bengaluru: A five-year-old boy, abducted for a ransom of Rs 35lakh, was rescued after 36 hours in captivity, after police shot at and injured one of his abductors in west Bengaluru.

 Chandan, the only son of Manjunathnagar residents Rajesh M and Malashree, and an LKG student of a private school near his residence, was allegedly abducted by his father’s employer,   and neighbour, around 12.15pm Sunday. KP Agrahara police returned the boy to his parents in the early hours of Tuesday.
 
 Abhishek C, Rajesh’s employer, allegedly hatched the   plan as he was aware that Chandan’s father Rajesh had recently sold his ancestral property in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. After his father Chandra Rao’s death recently, Abhishek had taken over his father’s travel business and also invested in a Kannada film, titled Battasu, which never saw the light of day.
 
 DCP (West) MN Anucheth said Abhishek’s three associates, Srikanth alias Sree, 19, of Vithal Nagar, Harshith V, 18, of Kasturba Nagar, and Divyateja alias DJ, 22, of Kasturi Nagar, were also arrested. Divyateja was injured when police shot at them.
 
 Police said the gang hired a Santro from a certain Arif, saying they needed the car to attend a wedding in Chikkamagaluru on Saturday.
 
 Rajesh, a bus driver, came home from work around noon and noticed that Chandan was missing. Chandan’s friends told Rajesh that two men on a bike had taken him away. Rajesh searched for the boy in his neighbourhood and approached KP Agrahara police around 5pm. 
 
 Around 9pm, Rajesh received a call. The caller told him that they had kidnapped Chandan and would be sent home safely only if he paid a ransom of Rs 35lakh. Police began tracking the caller and DCP Anucheth formed three teams to investigate the matter.
 
 Abhishek, meanwhile, kept Rajesh company in his search for Chandan. But police found that Abhishek was in telephonic contact with the number from which Rajesh had received the ransom call. Police immediately picked him up for questioning. Soon, Abhishek spilled the beans and provided information about his associates, who had the boy in their captivity.
 
 Abhishek also revealed that the plan was not to confine the boy in any house. Accordingly, his associates kept moving around the city in a car. Police managed to track the vehicle, with the boy and his three abductors in it, moving on Kommaghatta Road, near Kengeri, around 2am, and cordoned off the road. 
 
 DJ, who was driving the vehicle, allegedly tried to attack police with a machete. Inspector Manju fired at DJ’s right leg in self-defence. Police overpowered and arrested the trio in the car and rescued the child.
 
 DJ was rushed to Victoria Hospital and Chandan was handed over to his parents after first aid.
 
 Police suspect that two more people are involved in the kidnap, and are on the lookout for them. 
 
 ON KIDNAP TRAIL
 
 SUNDAY
 
 11.30am: Chandan goes out of his home to play with friends
 
 12.15pm: Parents learn that Chandan is missing
 
 5pm: FIR registered
 
 9pm: Father receives ransom call
 
 11pm: Grandma receives another call from abductors
 
 MONDAY
 
 1pm: Main accused Abhishek picked up
 
 Midnight: Whereabouts of vehicle with child traced
 
 TUESDAY
 
 1am: Police open fire at one of the accused, rescue child
 
 2am: Police hand over child to parents
 
 
