MUMBAI: The battle for   heats up with the Lakshmi N Mittal-led   on Monday moving   over its disqualification even as JSW alleged that allowing defaulting promoters to participate in the bidding process was “nothing but a mockery” of the  .

 
 According to ArcelorMittal, the resolution professional — appointed by Essar Steel’s creditors — rejected its bid on technical grounds as it was still listed as a promoter of defaulting firm   on the stock exchanges despite having sold its 29% stake in the firm before making an offer for the beleaguered company. On Saturday, ArcelorMittal was declassified as a promoter of Uttam Galva following regulatory approvals.
 
 ArcelorMittal made the legal move a day before its only opponent Numetal’s eligibility plea for Essar Steel comes up for hearing in NCLT-Ahmedabad. Last week, the resolution professional had disqualified both the participants after they failed to meet the eligibility criteria under the bankruptcy code. 
 
 JSW Steel, which is disallowed from participating in the bidding process as it had not submitted an expression of interest in the initial round, is upset with the way the auction process of Essar Steel is being handled. Without naming anyone, JSW’s chief   tweeted: “Any attempt to declassify any promoter on some technical ground to make oneself eligible to bid for the stressed asset is nothing but circumventing the system. Qualifying such promoters as non-defaulting is nothing but a mockery of the bankruptcy code.” Jindal said that “it is against the interest of the stakeholders who invested/lent money to such defaulting companies relying upon the credentials of the defaulting promoters”.
 
 Bankruptcy rules prohibit companies that hold interests in non-performing assets (NPAs) for more than a year before the commencement of the resolution process from participation. ArcelorMittal had divested its stake in Uttam Galva days before submitting its offer for Essar Steel. 
 
 With stock exchanges now declassifying ArcelorMittal as Uttam Galva’s promoter, the India arm of the $69-billion company on Monday moved the tribunal challenging the resolution professional’s decision of disqualifying it. It took the step as it wanted to “protect its rights in the process given the legal challenge by   against the decision”, the Luxembourg-based company’s local unit said.
 
 Numetal was disqualified as one of its shareholders was connected to Essar Steel’s founders and bankruptcy rules prohibit defaulting promoters as well as persons connected to them from participating in the resolution process of insolvent assets. 
 
 
