NEW DELHI: The   ( ) agreed to an urgent hearing of a petition by teenage Malayalam actress  , who's seeking the quashing of FIRs lodged against her and film makers for a song that some fringe groups feel offends the religious sentiments of Muslims.

 
 The SC said it will hear the plea tomorrow, after   Varrier's advocate Haris Beeran requested an urgent hearing on the petition.
 
 The actress who won millions of hearts with her expressions in the song 'Manikya Malaraya Poovi' in the yet to be completed 
  '
 ', moved the Supreme Court on Monday. 
 
 In the10 days since its release on social media platforms, the 'wink' song - as it's being called - notched up a record 34 million views. But soon, it turned into a nightmare as the 18-year-old BCom student found an FIR lodged against her and the filmmakers at Falaknuma police station in Hyderabad. The FIR alleged that the song had hurt the religious sentiments of Muslims.
 
 
  
 Two more FIRs - one by the secretary of Raza Academy with Mumbai Police and another by Janjagran Samithi at Jinsi police station in Maharashtra's Aurangabad - forced Priya Prakash Varrier, director Omar Abdul Wahab and producer Joseph Valakuzhy Eapen to move the SC through advocate Beeran. They invoked artists' fundamental right to speech and expression and sought quashing of the FIRs.
 
 The petitioners said 'Manikya Malaraya Poovi', a Muslim folk song of the Malabar region of Kerala, was written in 1978 by PMA Jabbar in praise of the love between the Prophet Mohammed and his first wife Khadeeja.
 
  "What is hard to fathom is that a song which has been in existence for the past 40 years, which was written, sung and cherished by the Muslim community in Kerala, is now being termed as an insult to the Prophet and his wife," said the director.
 
 "The film 'Oru Adaar Love' is yet to be completed and Rs 1.5 crore has been spent on it. Such flimsy and baseless complaints and FIRs cause nothing but hindrance in the freedom of speech and expression," the petitioners said.
 
 
  
  
 
