LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) police arrested an NRI from New Jersey (USA) after it recovered 2kg of heroin — the estimated cost of which is around Rs10 crore — from him at   in   on Saturday evening. The accused was identified as Amarjit Singh (58) of   village in Dehlon, who lives with his wife and two daughters in New Jersey.

 Giving details, senior superintendent of police Ludhiana (Rural)   said in the drive against drug peddlers, the Crime Investigating Agency (CIA) team had set up a police checkpost at Bridge Drain near Malak Chowk in Jagraon. The police officer said during checking, cops saw a white color Brezza car (registration No: PB10 GL-7401) coming from the direction of Malak village, but immediately on seeing the police party, the car driver tried to turn back his vehicle.
 
 Police said that on suspicion, they chased the car, and three persons in the car came out and started running towards the fields, but the police party nabbed the car driver and seized the car. The SSP said that on questioning, the accused disclosed his name as Amarjit Singh of Mukandpur. He added that on searching the car, police recovered 2kg heroin from under the driver’s seat. Cops said that during the initial investigation, Amarjit disclosed that he belonged to Mukandpur, and in 1988, he went to USA and settled in New Jersey along with his family. He told cops that he usually came to India, and after staying for a long period here, he would start smuggling heroin. Then, after making enough money from the sale of smuggled drugs, he returned to the US and lived off that money. Police officials also said he had the biggest house in his village, and owned about 45 acres of land. They added that the accused runs a travel agency. Passports and travel tickets of 2-3 persons were also recovered from his office.
 
 “In 2016, the accused went to Jammu and Kashmir to get a consignment of heroin and was arrested by Gangyal police of J&K — along with his accomplices Muhammad Rafiq, Muhammad Saif, and Nassar Ahmed — and was booked under relevant sections. After getting bail in that case, he continued smuggling heroin,” said the police officer. “During questioning by Ludhiana (Rural) police, he revealed that he got this consignment of heroin also from J&K, and was to supply it in the state.” He added that the accused was being questioned, and more disclosures on drug trade were expected from him.
 
 Police officials said a manhunt had been launched to arrest the accused who ran away from the spot. They added that the estimated cost of the recovered consignment was around Rs10 crore, as a kilogram of heroin cost around Rs5 crore in the international market. Police sources said the accused had received six consignments from J&K, one of which he had brought himself from there. They added that the accused was into this business for the past six years. SSP Surjeet Singh said with the arrest of the NRI and other accused, the supply chain of heroin from J&K has been busted.
 
 
