KOLKATA: The raw material supply problem continues to plague burger and fries major McDonald’s in Kolkata with restaurants staying shut on Monday. This is the fifth time since December 2017 that its operations had to be suspended due to supply issues.

 “We are facing major challenges concerning the raw material supply network. Each time there’s a hiccup, the management assures us the problem is temporary and would get sorted out soon. But it has not been resolved yet. The uncertainty in operations has affected customer confidence and employees’ morale,” an employee at one of the outlets told TOI.
 
 A section of the staff has quit, forcing   (CPRL), the estranged partner of McDonald’s India that runs these outlets, to advertise walk-in interviews to fill the vacancies.
 
 The five McDonald’s outlets in Kolkata and one in Howrah had downed shutters before Christmas after Radhakrishna Foodland Pvt Ltd, the authorised supplier to McDonald’s restaurants in the east and north India, discontinued the supply after sales plummeted in the wake of growing uncertainty over the future of these outlets. The Vikram Bakshi-owned CPRL is locked in an acrimonious battle with the American quick service restaurant (QSR) giant with the latter barring CPRL from using the brand, trademark and other intellectual properties in September.
 
 Though CPRL managed to hastily open its restaurants ahead of New Year’s eve by sourcing its supplies from logistics partner ColdEX, operations have been anything but smooth.
 
 McDonald’s has refused to certify the vendor. On the contrary, it has warned customers about the quality and safety standards.
 
 The management at malls that leased out prime space to CPRL for a song and entered into long-term contracts expecting the golden M to turn into the proverbial goose that lays gold eggs are in a quandary.
 
 “We have been trying to speak to CPRL without success. To have a store at the entrance of a mall shut adversely impacts the mall image. Declining sales have also affected the mall’s revenue since the pact with CPRL is heavily skewed towards revenue share,” said the owner of a mall, who is frustrated with the development but cannot do anything as CPRL has not defaulted on payments.
 
 CPRL is also locked in a litigation over the Park Street property, where its flagship restaurant is located. While   Ltd that owns Karnani Estate that houses the restaurant has won a case against lessees Sanjay and Dipak Singh, CPRL has challenged its eviction citing a 30-year agreement that was signed by the Singh brothers as well as Park Street Properties.
 
 ”We have lost the case and moved out. But our investment of over Rs 2 crore in furniture and machinery are stuck as CPRL has refused to move out and has gotten into a legal battle with Park Street Properties at the Calcutta High Court,” said Sanjay Singh.
 
