She's dominated the silver screen and graced the stage. But at 83, veteran actor and danseuse   has rediscovered the joys of a long-forgotten passion -  .

 
 "My husband had introduced me to the sport; we used to play often in Mumbai and Delhi. I have resumed after many years, thanks to my friends," says Bali, who has always loved sports. "I played table tennis and badminton, and got certificates for horse riding."
 
 With her balanced diet, disciplined lifestyle, passion for dance and love of sports, it's little wonder that 'Twinkle Toes' has remained lithe and agile. Dancer, teacher, researcher and performer, she dons all these hats with ease.
 
 "My Bharatanatyam keeps me going. People ask me how I still sit and take intricate positions when they can't even bend their knees, but when I dance, somebody else takes over. I leave everything to my matha," says Bali, an ardent devotee of Alvar saint Andal.
 
 She gives two or three performances a year, the latest being one for Bharat Kalachar in Chennai last month, where she shared the stage with her six-year-old granddaughter Svara and a few of her students. "Performing during the December music and dance season is a must," she says.
 
 Though she doesn't practise every day, she has picked a few girls to teach. "They are talented and I want them to continue my style of dance," says Bali, who teaches thrice a week.
 
 The rest of the time she devotes to research. "I am trying to revive rare, forgotten dance forms performed in the old temples of Thanjavur," she says. 
 
 Her active lifestyle is complemented by a simple, vegetarian diet. "I eat light, normal south Indian food, and not too much rice," says Bali, whose breakfast consists of oats, some dry fruits and tea. "Luckily, I don't have a sweet tooth though I have chocolates once in a while," she says.
 
 There are times when her son requests her to take it easy but Bali is not one to give up. "He asks me to go slow as I have been dancing from the age of 8 to 80. Though I have cut down on performances, the passion is still there," she says. "And I can judge how much to do or how far to go."
 
 
