Expressing doubts over the veracity of the report filed by AP chief secretary Dinesh Kumar that they have to pay a mere 62 crore as dues to farmers for the land they acquired for various purposes all over the state, particularly in view of the huge land acquisition in the state, the the Hyderabad High Court on Wednesday directed its registrar general to obtain independent reports from principal district judges of all the districts about the dues to be paid in both AP and   and cross-check the figures furnished by the chief secretaries of both states with the DJ reports.

 The HC registrar general has to compile a final report and file it before the court by March 31, 2018. Telangana chief secretary   also filed a report in which he said that their dues to the farmers are to the tune of 457 crore and that they have earmarked the funds for the same in the 2018 budget which will come into effect on April 1, 2018. “Within eight months from there we will pay our farmers all their dues in six instalments,” the CS said. The court recorded the same and said it would cross-check Telangana’s figures too with the DJ reports.
 
 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice   made this interim order after hearing a public interest petition that charged both the states with acting in an insensitive manner in respect of land losers. The PIL was the result of a letter written by G Venkata Krishnaiah, a principal district judge from Telangana, who said the state was not paying the money despite court orders and the pending execution pleas (EPs). The bench sought reports from the chief secretaries on the status of such EPs.
 
 On Wednesday, the Telangana government told the court that 1,669 execution petitions are pending and it has to pay 458 crore. It said it will clear the dues in six instalments between April to December. AP told the court that 918 execution petitions are pending and 84 crore is to be paid. It has already deposited Rs 22 crore and said it will pay the remaining Rs 63 crore within three months. The bench expressed dismay at the figures and called for reports from each district court. The registrar will get these details. The case has been adjourned to April.
 
 
