JAIPUR: The stage is set for the January 29   on three seats, including two  , with both   announcing the names of their   on Sunday.

 While the BJP, which announced its candidates for Ajmer and Alwar along with its candidate for Mandalgarh assembly seat, Congress, which has already fielded Dr Karan Singh Yadav from Alwar, announced its candidates for Ajmer Lok Sabha and Mandalgarh assembly seats. All the names were on expected lines.
 
 As speculated, cabinet minister   Yadav is the BJP candidate for the Alwar Lok Sabha seat. The party has fielded former MP Sanwarlal Jat’s son Ramswarup Lamba for Ajmer LS seat, who would be contesting against Congress’s former Kekri legislator Raghu Sharma.
 
 
 
 
 
 JAIPUR: In Bhilwara’s Mandalgarh assembly seat, BJP’s district president Shakti Singh Hada will contest against Vivek Dhakar of Congress.
 
 BJP’s Alwar candidate, 65-year-old Jaswant Singh Yadav, is currently the cabinet minister for skills development, labour and employment in the   government. He represents Behror in the Rajasthan legislative assembly. Even before the official announcement, Yadav not only picked up the nomination form on the first day of filing, but also started campaigning in the constituency.
 
 A three-time MLA, Yadav has previously represented Alwar in Lok Sabha from 1999 to 2004. After being denied a ticket in 2004 by the BJP, he joined Congress but soon returned. Speculations hint that even if Yadav does go on to win the Alwar seat, he may continue as state labour minister till June.
 
 Hoping to encash the sympathy wave in Ajmer, the BJP, drifting away from its stand on dynastic politics, has decided to field Ramswarup Lamba from the LS constituency, which was previously represented by his father and late MP, Sanwarlal Jat. The bypoll for the seat was necessitated by the demise of Jat on August 9,
 
 217. Thirty four-year-old Lamba is an arts graduate and is professionally associated with the mining sector.
 
 On the other hand, Congress’ 63-year-old Raghu Sharma has been associated with the party since his student years. The former MLA is among the most experienced Congress leaders and has been hand picked by state president Sachin Pilot for his own political turf, Ajmer. A PhD holder, Sharma understands Ajmer's caste equations well as the district is his hometown and has the ability to attract scrowds.
 
 
