It was a reunion of sorts for the 1984 batch of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA), when one of the ex-students, Somesh Goyal, currently posted as DGP (Prisons),  , invited his batchmates for his son Kartikeya'
s wedding in Delhi. Goyal’s bureaucrat friends got together for this wedding, keeping their promise to each other – to not miss their children's weddings. And so, when these batchmates got together, there was laughter, backslapping and lots of teasing, making it one lively evening.
 
  
  Saba Thevanayagam and Vasuki Thevanayagam
 
 
  
  Somesh Goyal and Savita Goyal
 
 
  
 There were endless reunion hugs and ‘look at you’ moments. When Deepak Mishra, Special DG, CRPF met  , Cabinet Secretary, they had a long chat. Johri said, "We keep meeting with people who are posted in Delhi at different functions. But only on occasions like these do we get to meet those who are posted outside Delhi. It’s the Academy (LBSNAA) bond for us, which is still strong after all these years. We make it a point to not miss the weddings. When my daughter got married, wahan bhi sab aaye thay. Kisi bhi state mein function ho, hum log milte zaroor hain."
 
  Dharmendra Kumar, DG, RPF (Railway Protection Force), was bonding with Gurbachan Singh, DG NHRC, and said, "We are all batchmates, and it’s so good to be together again at this gathering."
 
  
  Shefali Verma and Alok Verma, CBI director
 
 
  
  Sanjeev Jindal, Joint Secretary, Disaster Management, MHA and Vikas Kumar Arora, DIG, SSB 
 
  
  
 The senior officials and former officials of intelligence agencies were also present, and jokes went from 'Now, at least I can tell people what I do,' to 'See, now I have a visiting card'. While at most parties food and weather become topics of discussion, at this gathering the discussions were about 'who's coming back to Delhi,' 'whose next deputation is in which city,' and 'which posting one is expecting'. A senior official remarked, "Yes, it’s the group which talks about work at weddings too!"
 
 
 
  
  Baljit Singh Sandhu, DG Haryana with his wife
 
 
  Before his posting in HP, Somesh Goyal was posted as ADG, SSB in Delhi, and so some of the functions were organised at the SSB mess in Ghitorni where the SSB band played for the couple too. After the wedding rituals, Somesh Goyal called his batchmates, "Aa jao, 1984 batch walon – saath mein ek photo lete hain." Goyal told us, "I had invited my friends, batchmates, seniors, juniors for the wedding. It’s occasions like these when we get the time to meet each other. It was a wonderful reunion, it had to be!"
 
  
  (L-R) Gurbachan Singh, DG NHRC, Harishchandra Singh, Advisor to SBI, Dharmendra Kumar, DG, RPF, Somesh Goyal, DGP (Prisons) Himachal Pradesh, SS Deswal, Additional DG BSF, Vivek Johri, Cabinet Secretary and  , Principal DG Income Tax (HRD), Gurdarshan Singh, retired ADG (Railways) and Deepak Mishra, Special DG, CRPF (BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 
  
  Brigadier Bhupesh Goyal
 Rakesh Kumar Gupta, Principal Resident Commissioner, J&K Govt 
 
 
  
  Mohammad Wazir Ansari, DG, (Prosecution)   and Abhishek Dixit, SP, Tamil Nadu Special Police 
 
 
  
  Renu Sharma and KK Sharma, DG BSF 
 
 
  
  Rohini Aggarwal
 Ajay Mittal, Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
