Nagpur: The state information commission (SIC) has directed the collector office to register FIR with the police department if it does not have sanctioned building plan of Vidarbha Cricket Association’s (VCA) Jamtha stadium in its records. For over two years, the collector office is not providing the stadium’s sanctioned plan to RTI activist TH Naidu saying it was not in their records.

 Naidu received copy of SIC order on April 16. The state information commissioner Dilip Dharurkar also directed the collector office to submit in affidavit to Naidu that stadium’s sanctioned building plan was not in its records. “FIR should be registered as per Maharashtra Public Records Act 2006. Also, action taken report should be submitted with the commission and also given to Naidu,” he said.
 
 Dharurkar slammed the first appellate authority, deputy collector (revenue), for being not present for the hearing. “It is mandatory for the officials as per the state government’s norms to be present during the hearing when directed by the SIC. First appellate authority was not present in the hearing without any intimation. Therefore, first appellate authority should submit report for not being present in the hearing within 30 days,” he said.
 
 Under the RTI Act, Naidu had submitted an application with the collector office seeking information about the stadium on January 12, 2016. It was mandatory for the collector office to provide the information in 30 days.
 
 Naidu told TOI collector office did not provide him with sanctioned building plan despite two orders passed by the SIC. “Collector office also violated SIC’s orders. Still, the SIC did not take any action. Only silver lining is that SIC has asked for FIR and action taken report,” he said.
 
 “Collector office only says sanctioned plan was not in its records. It is not ready to tell whether sanction was given to the stadium or not,” he said.
 
 Naidu along with activists Prashant Pawar, Ankita Shah and Jai Jawan Jai Kisan had alleged stadium’s building plan was not sanctioned. They also alleged the stadium lacked required permissions from environment department and MPCB. Despite complaints, the collector office, police department, MPCB, environment department and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) are not taking any action on violations.
 
 
