In 2007, Singanallur lake was not just a hotspot for illegal dumping of construction debris but a den of anti-social activities. People would drink and smoke on the tank bunds and dead bodies were found floating on the lake’s water surface. This was the case with other lakes in the city as well. 

 A decade later, these lakes in the city have seemingly been transformed and revived after the ‘no let-up’ fight put up by various NGOs and environmentalists for the common cause. 
 
 These volunteers have not just taken up lake conservation measures but have created awareness that it had turned into people’s movement. Every Sunday, a group of volunteers can be seen cleaning or planting saplings on various lake bunds.
 
 The journey though looks all delightful it was not easy. Getting permissions and creating awareness among residents was difficult. “Despite creating awareness, the residents in and around the lakes continued to dump garbage on the tank bunds. So we set up check posts and even appointed security guards to stop it,” said Vinny R Peter of Centre for Urban biodiversity conservation and education (CUBE), a non-profit organisation. Some had to even fight it out with the politicians. “We got a lot of threats when we constantly pushed for the removal of encroachments on the Vellalore channel but it was all worth it as we know that the lake will finally get water after a decade,” said Manikandan.
 
 Slowly, it has turned into a movement as a group of residents in Chinnavedampatti area took a vow to revive the lake in October, 2017. One of the residents who did not want to be named said it all began when the bore wells in their area went bone dry. They have already cleaned 5km long channel all by themselves and have another 2km to complete. “Water flowed into the lake five years ago. We are confident that we can make it happen again and have taken all possible measures for it,” said a volunteer.
 
 Sanjay Prasad and Arun Krishnamurthy of Environmentalist Foundation of India, said, “We have no idea when it turned into a movement and now, we have cleaned nearly four lakes and undertake various other activities to sensitize people living around the lake,” said Sanjay. Similarly, Deepam Swaminathan started the Kurichi Kulam Paathugaapu Iyakkam to save Kurichi lake. 
 
 These groups also ensure that change takes place at policy level so that their efforts do not go waste. “Most times, we clean a place and then find it stinking with garbage again. Unless, the government takes it up and enforces laws it becomes difficult to sustain our efforts,” said a volunteer.
 
 To mark to the ‘World Wetland Day’ on Friday, these volunteers along with school and college students organized rallies, cycle rally, lectures and speeches on the need to conserve the wetland. While a group of students of AJK College of Arts and Science took out a rally, an army of corporation school students and private college students undertook a cycle rally on Trichy Road. While some gathered at Ukkadam Lake for training on bird watching, a few gathered to plant saplings at Singanallur lake. 
 
 Lectures and speeches on the need to conserve wetland was hot topic at universities and colleges in the city. 
 
 
