MUMBAI: City   chief   on Wednesday ruled out the possibility of an alliance with Raj Thackeray-led   for the ensuing   or state assembly polls. 

  "Congress will have an alliance with like-minded parties, including NCP, Samajwadi Party, PWP and Communist Party of India. But there is no possibility of an alliance with MNS. There is no substance to the reports on a Congress-NCP-MNS tie-up in the state," Nirupam said. 
 
 Nirupam pointed out that ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi "failed" on all fronts, Congress has launched a campaign to dislodge the NDA government. "We are in favour of Modi-mukt Bharat, but we will not join hands with the MNS to achieve the goal. The people of India have already launched a drive for Modi-mukt Bharat, which is evident from the outcome of the recent bypolls in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh," Nirupam said.
 
 The Congress is wary of aligning with the MNS, which has resorted to violence to further its agenda. "The MNS has resorted to massive violence, and made several attempts to divide people on the basis of language and culture. Raj Thackeray is in the habit of resorting to violence, from the outcome of the state assembly and civic polls, it has been established that he has been rejected by the people. We will never associate with him," Nirupam said. Ever since Raj Thackeray interviewed NCP chief Sharad Pawar at a public meeting in Pune, followed by his meeting with him at Pawar's residence, speculation is rife over the possibility of an alliance between the MNS and NCP for the ensuing Lok Sabha and assembly polls. According to reports, while the MNS will extend unconditional support to NCP for the Lok Sabha polls, in return, Pawar's party will offer some seats to the MNS for the assembly polls in Mumbai, Pune and Nashik. 
 
  Nirupam condemned the violence unleashed by the MNS against Gujarati traders and vendors in Mumbai. 
 
  "Several hotels and establishments in the Vasai-Virar area were vandalised by MNS workers over Gujarati signboards. We will never support such kind of violent acts," Nirupam said.
 
 
