BENGALURU: Friday’s fire at   has sparked off worry among hundreds of residents living in apartments on the periphery.

 Giridhar V, a resident of   apartments, said burning grass near the lake in summer was a common sight. “It’s surprising to see grass catching fire at this time of year. If the wind was blowing in the direction of the apartment, we would have had a tough time. The authorities should ensure this doesn’t happen again,” he said.
 
 A senior official from the urban development department said a team of officials had inspected the lake banks, and reported that the cause of the fire could be arson. “While most of the 900-acre lake has been fenced, there are still pockets which are open to trespassers. Some miscreants might have gained access to the lake banks and set the dry grass or garbage piles there on fire. Floating grass on the water body was also on fire. The government is likely to take a decision to cordon off the entire lake till the STPs under construction are completed. The   has been directed to check the chemical levels in the lake and we expect a report on Saturday,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 By afternoon, the fire on Bellandur Lake started spreading towards the defence area nearby. Hundreds of armymen jumped into action and after several hours of operations, they managed to douse the blaze and stopped it from entering the army area.
 
 In a statement, the defence PRO said, “There was an outbreak of fire at Bellandur Lake area around 12noon. This started spreading towards the Army area. The fire which had come up to the perimeter of the Army location has been put out due to the untiring efforts of more than 5,000 Army personnel and fire-fighting equipment of   and Centre. Army personnel are still alert to prevent its spread into Army and adjoining civil area. The 5,000 Army personnel was led by  , deputy commandant and chief instructor, ASC College and Centre. This immediate action resulted in effectively containing the fire..."
 
 
 
 
 This is not the first time the lake has spat fire. In 2017, taking suo motu cognizance of the state of the lake following a similar fire incident in February, the National Green Tribunal ( ) had come down hard on the city’s civic agencies for failing to clean up the lake.
 
 However, the actual cleaning of the lake and its redevelopment is possible only after 2020. Officials of the high level panel constituted to chalk out a plan to rejuvenate the water body informed the NGT a few months ago that the lake can be cleaned only when sewage flow into the water body stops.
 
 The   (BWSSB) which is installing sewage treatment plants (STPs) to stop waste from entering the lake, will be able to complete these projects only by 2020.
 
 “Desilting or cleaning work at the lake can be taken up only after 2020, when sewage flow stops. Otherwise, it would be a waste of money as the revival would cost us around Rs 500 crore. The same has been informed to the Tribunal,” said a senior BDA official.
 
