HYDERABAD: The government railway police arrested a 43-year-old man on charges of carrying stolen gold ornaments on Rayalaseema Express early on Saturday.

 The accused was identified as Mohammed Ahmed Siddiqui, a plumber and a resident of Golconda. Police recovered 59 tolas of gold worth ?18 lakh from the accused,after nabbing him at   railway station.
 
  
  
 
 Siddique, a habitual thief, is an accused in 10 cases lodged with the railway police stations at   and Vikarabad, police said. Finally, he landed in the net during a massive raid conducted in trains and stations on Saturday, and was subsequently arrested at Vikarabad.
 
 Questioned by police, the accused   confessed to have committed thefts in Mahbubnagar. Later, police also impounded stolen property from his rented house at MS Maqtha Raj Bhavan Road in the city.
 
 G  , superintendent of police, Secunderabad railway police district, said they conducted the raid to clamp down on the illegal transportation of gold and contraband, following the instruction of T Krishna Prasad, IPS, director general of police.
 
 The government railway police (GRP) team for the drive comprised A Srinivas, IRP, Hyderabad line, P Raghavender Goud, SIRP, MahbubnagarB  , SIRP and officials from the crime wing of RPS Mahbubnagar, who are being led by S Rajendra Prasad, DSRP of Secunderabad urban.
 
 The police have begun investigations, and a probe into the case is underway. GRP are interrogating the accused to find out whether all the recovered ornaments had been stolen in trains, and to acertain locations of thefts commited elsewhere.
 
 Of late, cases of theft in running trains have gone up, according to GRP sources. In the past one year alone, a total of 423 thefts were committed on running trains, while the number is at 237 cases for stationary trains halting at stations.
 
 “We have strengthened our action plan to curb the peddling of contraband and ornaments through railways, and we will continue conducting surprise drives at different trains and platforms, which are more vulnerable to thefts, in our jurisdiction,” the SP said.
 
