If you see their  , Chandini Bakshi and her husband Tarang Vasisth come across as typical millennials who earn well and spend fast. In the past 18 months, the Delhi-based couple have taken five vacations, but unlike many other millennials, the couple doesn’t swipe plastic or rack up loans to fund their getaways. Instead, they put aside Rs 12,000-15,000 every month into a liquid fund for their  .

 
 The couple represents a small but growing section of millennials who save and spend rather than accumulate debt to fund their desires. For many millennials,   is more important than other financial goals such as buying a car, saving for a house or even investing for retirement. Take Delhi-based Shikha Upadhyay. She has created a separate travel fund for her holidaying and puts Rs 10,000 in it every month. “This has enabled me to fund my holidays without depleting my regular savings,” she says.
 
 Where should you put the money when saving for your travel plans? Leaving it in your savings account is an option because it gives you instant access. But this also means the money might get used for other expenses. You need to put it away where it is out of sight, yet accessible at short notice. Since the goal is very short term (usually 6-12 months), the returns don’t really matter.
 
 You can also consider liquid funds, short-term debt funds and even a recurring deposit in your bank. “Ultra shortterm debt funds are ideal since there is no exit load. Also, the investments are subject to low volatility, making it suitable for short-term needs,” says Suresh Sadagopan, Financial Planner, Ladder7 Financial Advisories.
 
 Another money-saving strategy is to do some research on hotel bookings and flight tickets well ahead of the trip. Capitalising on the plethora of deals on offer can help you tick destinations off your bucket list without burning a hole in your wallet. Conveyance and hotel bookings account for the largest chunk of travel budgets. So it pays to be on the lookout well before your travel date, to seize the best deals.
 
 
