Kolkata: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday referred to a ‘gaddar’ who was once in her party fold. Ironically, her political adversary Dilip Ghosh, the Bengal BJP president, too uttered the same word, albeit in a different context, the same day.

 Neither the CM nor Ghosh named the person they meant but it was enough to trigger speculation on whether they had a common target in mind.
 
 Ghosh’s remark raised eyebrows in his party because his reference to ‘gaddar’ was aimed at some black sheep in the state BJP, giving credence to the rumour that a section of state leaders had informed the central leadership that Ghosh could not resume normal functioning for another six months and the BJP brass should look for an alternative.
 
 “Our central leaders are very much aware of my surgery because it was planned in consultation with them. Our party national secretary Anil Jain, who is himself a doctor, monitored the surgery. They also sought the latest medical report. Maybe, some within the state BJP have been nursing the idea of replacing me. But our central leaders never told me this,” Ghosh said.
 
 But Ghosh dropped enough hints about his annoyance at such a plan. “It’s true that I am not being able to reach out to places. But I am holding meetings with district leaders and am very much in party activity,” he said. Ghosh is to meet the state general secretaries on February 2 and state BJP office-bearers on February 4. Yet, the rumour refuses to die down. In fact, it started doing the rounds soon after Mukul Roy’s entry into BJP, prompting Roy to announce at public meetings that Ghosh was the team captain in Bengal.
 
 According to sources, the rumour gained momentum on January 22 when Ghosh was rushed from Kharagpur to AMRI Salt Lake after he complained of lower back pain. Diagnosed with a prolapsed intervertebral disc, he had to undergo surgery. Initially, the surgery was to take place at AIIMS but didn’t because the surgeon was leaving for the US.
 
 On January 27, AMRI doctors issued a statement advising his discharge the next day. The hospital advised rest and physiotherapy for a month. Curiously, that day, BJP issued a communique that the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya had overridden the medical advice and asked him to take further rest in hospital. Vijayvargiya’s intervention, given his relations with Roy, fuelled the speculation about the change of guard.
 
 The Trinamool chief, on the other hand, didn’t use the word against a party insider. She used it against someone (Roy) in the context of the Tripura assembly polls on February 18. Explaining that her party had the public acceptance to contest the polls but lacked the financial wherewithal, she said: “We had a ‘gaddar’ in the party ranks. He is no longer in the party. He has now joined BJP.”
 
 “Now, Sabyasachi Dutta (Bidhannagar mayor) is looking after the party organisation there. We could have contested every seat there,” she added.
 
 
