MUMBAI: In a major relief for Alfa, a store popular for imported goods in   (West), the   on Thursday ordered   officials to release all goods which they had seized during a raid conducted last week. The goods worth Rs1.5 crore, which included expensive cell phones, food and stationery, were to be returned by 5.30pm, a bench of Justices S C Dharmadhikari and P D Naik ordered, granting not even a day’s time. They were returned in the evening.

 Taiyab Khatri, proprietor of Alfa, had moved court on Wednesday after the April 12 raid by Deepak Pandit, assistant commissioner of Customs. The raid was “completely unlawful and gross abuse of power by the assistant commissioner,” Khatri’s counsel   argued. He also pointed out that the operation was conducted in the presence of TV crews in an “uncalled for move as only the Customs commissioner can address the media.” No panchanama was prepared on the spot of the goods seized or a tempo detained, he told the bench. A tempo carrying air freshners, chocolate, hair spray, stationery, toys, schoolbags etc was detained. All good seized were “freely saleable” and hence their seizure was illegal, Kantawalla argued.
 
 
 The customs officials had gone to Alfa, shop number 2 just when it was closing hours at night and pointed at he “costliest phones displayed openly for sale…and took away 300 mobile phones and 13 branded pens,’’ said Kantawalla. The officials went to two other Alfa shops and took mobile accessories.
 
 Sham Walve counsel for the department, in the presence of Pandit, stated that the seized goods and documents, if any, would be released by 5.30pm.
 
 The HC order said it should be done in presence of an Alfa representative and all details of seized goods should be recorded. “When we pass this order we neither absolve the petitioner from any alleged evasion of relevant tax laws nor any other penal consequence that follows from the acts allegedly indulged into by him. The respondents can proceed against the petitioner, but strictly in accordance with law,’’ said the HC order, disposing of Khatri’s plea.
 
