GREATER NOIDA:   Kumar was all of 24 and had begun taking over the reins of his family when an earthmover hit him from behind and rendered him visually disabled at work.

 The youth, now 27, alleged he had made several rounds of the company he worked for and visited administrative officials but is yet to get the   due to him.
 
 It was a usual day for Vivek at work in May 2015 when the earthmover carrying coal to the metal recycling plant — Metenere — in   hit him in the head. The youth lost a bone in the skull and one of his eyes gorged out. He gradually lost vision in both the eyes.
 
 “I was crushing coal with the glander machine when the blades jutting out of the earthmover’s bucket hit from behind. The main orbital bone was broken and I remained on ventilator support for a few days at the trauma centre in AIIMS. I was taken there by the company officials, who informed my family a day later,” Vivek said.
 
 The youth claimed he had been promised a permanent job and an eye transplant by his company, but there was little headway two years on. Vivek rued he now has to depend on his elderly father ؙ— who works as a security guard — to raise his two kids.
 
 “They promised to give me the insurance amount, a permanent job and get the eye transplant done. My family was told not to approach the police,” he said.
 
 Vivek’s mother   agreed they preferred to wait for the company to fulfil the promises than lodge a police complaint.“Neither did the company give us any provident fund nor the insurance benefits,” she said.
 
 According to the family, around Rs 20 lakh was due to them. Vivek, who said he suffered from occasional pain in the skull, alleged his medical file was with the company general manager Ranjeet Yadav and human resource head Ajay Agrawal.
 
 “We had asked them for his dues and the file of his treatment. But they refused to give any,” Vivek’s brother Rahul told TOI.
 
 Having waited for two years, Vivek had approached Dadri SDM Amit Kumar Singh and district magistrate BN Singh on Tehsil Diwas — a monthly event to address grievances — on June 20 last year. Seven months on, he is still waiting for the compensation. The youth said he had written to the district magistrate on June 27 last year and the matter was referred to deputy labour commissioner BK Roy.
 
 “The letter had been forwarded to labour inspector  . I make frequent calls to him but he only gives us assurance. It has been seven months now,” he said.
 
 Sharma said that after receiving the complaint, he had got the Employees State Insurance Corporation form filled for Vivek, which had not been done by his company.
 
 Ranjit Yadav, the GM of the plant Vivek worked for, asserted the company had extended all help to the youth but declined to give details.
 
 DM Singh said he would look into the matter. Sitting at home, Vivek rued at his disability at the prime of youth.
 
 
