RIYADH: The decision of the Saudi Arabian government to lift the 35-year-old ban on commercial theatres and screening of commercial films from abroad would augur well for Indian film industry also.

 There is an estimated 4.1 million Indians, which accounts for 13% of the population - live in  , making them the biggest expatriate group. There is also a sizable population of expats from South Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, who also watch Hindi films from India. Moreover, the Kingdom also has residents from other countries, such as  , where Bollywood has had a strong fan following. The opening of movie houses could also open up a market for South Indian films, including Malayalam.
 
 The Kingdom has the second largest Malayali population outside India. Saudi cities such as  , Jeddah, Dammam, Abha, Jizan, Yanbu, Mecca, Madeena and Taif etc have sizable Malayali population. Saudi Malayalis would be able to watch movies on the global releasing date.
 
 Now, Malayalam films are released in Bahrain and the UAE on the same date of release in Kerala. 
 
 
 
  A Malayali working as a driver in Saudi Arabia was found hanging in Bahrain. Rajesh  
 
 (36), a native of Anchal in Kollam went to Bahrain with his employer, a Saudi citizen, on Wednesday. During weekends Rajesh used to frequent Bahrain by road with his employer. After dropping off his employer at the diplomatic towers he went to the drivers’ quarters where he usually stays during such visits. On Saturday morning he was found hanging. The body is now kept at Salmaniya hospital in Bahrain and arrangements have been made to send the body to Kerala shortly. His wife Akhila is also working in Saudi as a nurse.
 
 
 
 A Malayali nurse died of heart attack at Abha in Asir province of Saudi Arabia. Jansi Dominic (49) has been working with the ministry of health in   near Abha town as staff nurse for the past 20 years. Jansi, a native of Peravoor in Kannur, leaves behind husband Shibu and two daughters Jafeena (16) and Jain (14). Shibu is working in Abha as a driver.
 
