PUNE: Eight   were stolen from the premises of   High School and Junior College at   between January 12 and 24.

 The series of thefts came to light after the school manager, Sister   AC (Apostolic Carmel), registered a complaint under Section 379 (theft) with the   police on Wednesday. The big and small sandalwood trees were stolen while branches of a tamarind trees were chopped.
 
  
  
 
 Sister Divya (66) stated in her complaint, “Sandalwood trees are being stolen every year before the admission process.”
 
 A visit to the spot revealed that a maid servant had discovered a rope tied on a tree and cut mark on its trunk outside Mount Carmel Convent official quarters of sisters. The gardener,  , then found three trees, including one from the garden opposite to the quarters and another from the primary school garden, stolen. 
 
 Sister Divya told TOI, “Four trees were stolen on the night of January 12. Peon Sunanda Tribhuvan found stumps of two trees on January 22. Two big trees behind the kitchen were stolen on the night of January 24.”
 
 She said, “I had gone to teach in the primary school when I found a tree from the orchard missing. Shirmane checked the entire premises and found eight sandalwood trees were chopped and stolen. We want the police to detect the case at the earliest.”
 
 She said, “In one of the incidents a woman working in the kitchen had heard a stray dog barking and running away late in the night. We switched on the lights and opened the window but could not see anyone. We heard the noise of an electric machine being used for chopping the trees.”
 
 She added, “We will conduct a survey to identity the exact number of such trees and take necessary steps to prevent them from getting stolen.”
 
 Another official, Sister  , said, “There are a large number of sandalwood trees on a hillock behind the school. Thieves chop and steal trees from there and politicians hold us responsible for them on the pretext of seeking admission in the new academic year.”
 
 Kondhwa police’s senior inspector   said, “I and my colleagues have inspected the crime scene and issued a slew of measures to the school authorities to intensify the security on the campus. We are checking the criminals on record and working on certain clues.”
 
 
