HOSAPETE (BALLARI):   president   launched the Janaashirvaada (people's blessing) Yatra here on Saturday by taking on PM   for delving into history to ridicule Congress. He likened Modi to a driver who steers the vehicle by looking in the rear-view mirror. 

 "The country is concerned about the future. Learn governance from Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah, who is forward-looking. Modi is not worried about oncoming vehicles. That's why he commits mistakes like demonetisation and Gabbar Singh Tax (GST)," Rahul said during a huge rally in Hosapete city. Karnataka is scheduled go to polls this summer.
 
 In his hour-long speech, he endorsed Siddaramaiah as CM for a second term. 
 
 On Modi dubbing the Congress government as a '10% commission sarkar', he said the   was trying to come to power when their party president   faces corruption charges. 
 
 
 
 
 On Modi dubbing the Congress government in Karnataka a 10% commission sarkar, he said BJP was trying to come to power when their president B S Yeddyurappa faces corruption charges. “Modi talks about graft. But he forgets it was the BJP government led by Yeddyurappa that broke the record in corruption. The Rafale deal is another example of major corruption in the NDA government,’’ he alleged.
 
 Rahul asked why the NDA government has superseded Bengaluru-based HAL for the ‘offset contract’. “The Rafale deal during UPA was handed to the governmentundertaking HAL. But Modi stole it from HAL and handed the deal to his industrialist friends. He stole employment from Bengaluru youth,” he alleged. He concluded by saying: “I share a special connection with Ballari. You stood with Sonia Gandhi and chose her when she needed you. I’ll never forget this.’’
 
 
 
 
 B S Yeddyurappa tweeted: Dear #Election-Hindu @OfficeOfRG, did the #RearView-Mirror help you spot Santosh Lad, Anand Singh & Venugopal seated behind you and remind you of the land, mining & ‘rape scam’ (sic)? Are Objects in the mirror closer than they appear? #Dare2Answer.
 
