MUMBAI: A four-decade-old ‘pyau’ outside Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus ( ) may be forced to move out as the trust managing it has alleged that the civic authorities are harassing them, and in the last few months have got them to drastically reduce their space.

 The potable drinking water facility alongside Bhatia garden caters to over a lakh commuters and BEST staff, like conductors and drivers, as a bus depot is besides it.
 
 At any given time, at least a dozen people drink water from it. Paramhans Ganeshji Charity Trust, which is managing the  , said trouble started in March last year when   directed it to occupy less space. In December 2017, they were served a notice to vacate the back portion for beautification purposes.
 
 “We allowed them to work on the back portion and surrendered the open space to the garden department. But we were shocked to see that the garden department constructed two toilets, a bathroom and wash basin too. Building a toilet adjoining it is definitely not hygienic. We met civic officials but nothing concrete has emerged. If this continues, we may be forced to move out,” said trust member Rajiv Singhal. Apart from CSMT, the trust runs such facilities at Juhu, Kalbadevi and Flora Fountain.
 
 Trust members added that daily, around one lakh commuters use the facility, and for their benefit, they had placed water filters to supply hot and cold water. “However the filter now is not functional as our space has been reduced. There is inadequate space to place the filters, so commuters now are being provided regular water supplied to us by BMC,” said Pawan Badetia, another member.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (A ward) Kiran Dighavkar claimed they only reduced the excess area which the trust had taken. “Neither was their capacity or services affected. Years back, they had taken a lot of space but in view of awareness about open spaces, maximum space on any recreational ground is being made available for public use,” said Dighavkar.
 
 
 
 
 It is strange that the  , which is lax about protecting the city’s open spaces, gives the ‘open space’ argument to cut access to a ‘pyau’ which has for years been providing much-needed drinking water to lakhs of commuters and office-goers. The city has several such ‘pyaus’ which have been doing similar service for decades. Why they should be touched and not encroachments or netas grabbing open spaces is baffling.
 
 
