Kolkata: The Trinamool Congress government in Bengal, which is facing discomfort following the resignation of Saoli Mitra from Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi, might get relief soon as she is likely to join back. 

 The veteran theatre artiste had resigned about three weeks ago because she said she was facing difficulties in carrying out her duties and wanted a free hand to work smoothly.
 
 Talking to TOI, Mitra said: “Partha Chatterjee, higher education minister, talked to me about the reason for my resignation and assured me that all hurdles would be removed so that there would be no problem in my functioning. It is likely that I will rejoin soon.”
 
 She added that “there should be a proposal from the government’s end so that I can rejoin”. “On Thursday the Sahitya Utsav started, so it is difficult for me to remain out of office. But I want my dignity to be protected at all cost. What I wanted from the government is proper infrastructure for working, nothing personal for me,” she said.
 
 “There is too much red tapism; rules should be minimized for better working, which I conveyed to Chatterjee. If the government fulfils my demands, then I have no issues in rejoining office soon.”
 
 Meanwhile, a Nabanna source said CM Mamata Banerjee was unhappy at the manner Mitra’s resignation was treated. It was kept in abeyance. Chatterjee was asked to intervene this week to iron out differences between the state government and Mitra. Nabanna sources said the CM was unwilling to allow Mitra to step down, for which her resignation was not accepted and Chatterjee was given a free hand to iron out issues.
 
 Sources pointed out that Mitra is considered one of the faces of ‘Paribartan’ — who had condemned the atrocities of Nandigram in 2007 while Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was CM and had always been balanced in her actions making her a neutral figure. So the CM wanted her to continue and moreover she has a soft corner for Bengali theatre and particularly for Mitra’s parents Sambhu and Tripti Mitra.
 
 The CM, meanwhile, visited artist Suvaprasanna’s home in Salt Lake along with several cultural personalities on Thursday evening and even played the piano. “She sang and played piano, and had a chit-chat session for over an hour over snacks,” Suvaprasanna said and added that they also discussed development issues. Suvaprasanna’s home had been the hub of intellectuals who were pro-change during the post-Nandigram days and had gathered there to voice their protest against the Left Front regime.
 
 At Thursday’s informal meeting, several cultural celebrities such as Joy Goswami, Subodh Sarkar, Manoj Mitra, Indrani Halder, June and Arindam Sil were present.
 
 
