KOCHI: When S   was told that his daughter   G had secured the first rank in the country by scoring 499/500 in the  , he was quiet for a moment. He softly reconfirmed what he heard and then laughed with joy.

 
 “What 499! That is just a mark short!” said the senior government pleader at the high court who was overwhelmed with joy. The only grief he had was that his daughter was not alongside him to celebrate the news as she had recently moved to   to prepare for her medical entrance at Brilliant Study Centre.
 
 “I wish I could spend this moment with my parents who helped me a lot throughout the year. With continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) gone, this year’s exam pattern was different and hence difficult. The added pressure of CCE system being removed helped me do well,” said Sreelakshmi. She knew she had done well, but the rank came out of the blue.
 
 She added that her teachers were clear about completing the syllabus on time. “At first, we took it lightly. Towards the end of the first-term exam, it was clear that we won’t do well if we postponed studies to the last minute," said the student from Bhavan’s   who got full marks in English, Sanskrit, science and social studies.
 
 She said that she had no big secret to share or a success recipe. Completing syllabus on time and studying helped her. She added that she took much-needed breaks, enjoyed her music and movies to focus on her studies.
 
 “Both my parents work and they would come home by evening. So, I would prepare in advance and take a break to spend time with them and in hindsight those moments were important for me. It helped me stay calm and focussed even when I was feeling a bit overwhelmed,” said Sreelakshmi, who has already started preparations for the medical entrance exam.
 
 “Medicine is one of those fields that creates a special feeling within you at a young age, I fell for its charm and I have been aiming to be a doctor ever since. Whenever I would go to a hospital, I would be overwhelmed by the sight of doctors rushing around, their focus and determination. As years went, that calling only grew stronger," said Sreelakshmi, who added her Class X results has motivated her to work harder.
 
 But Gopinath was not willing to miss the moment. He and his wife LP Rema went to Pala to celebrate her rank. “She said that she was going to do well in most exams and that she was a bit worried about maths. We were hoping that she gets A1 in all subject. This was beyond our expectations,” he said.
 
 
