The latest episode of   starts with Ballu scolding Neela. Bebe calls DD and asks about Neil as there are riots in the city. After that, she calls Ali and asks him to come home and look for Neil.

 Ali comes home and discloses that he has exchanged cars with Neil, so Vidyut's men will mistake him for Neil and followed him. She asks him to make her talk to Avni and Ali promises to take her once the riots are over.
 
 Neil stops at the checkpoint and talks to DD. He tells DD that Ballu has run away with Neela. DD says that he will call the special unit to find her.
 
 The scene shifts to Sunehri who is seen in pain with a few police constables in attendance. The doctor is unable to make it because of the riots. Avni, who has some medical knowledge, steps in to save her. The doctor guides her through a video call as she removes the glass pieces from the wound.
 
 Anvi tells a semi-conscious Sunheri that she had laid the trap for Vidyut and   but she fell victim to it. She apologizes for the mishap.
 
 Ballu calls the doctor who tells him that they have to do Vidyut's surgery as his other kidney is also on dialysis. He further tells him that they need the consent forms to be signed first. Ballu says that he will arrange for Gurumaa's digital signs. Neela, who is lying on the backseat of the car, overhears him and thinks Vidyut has gone to Mexico for his kidney surgery. 
 
 Balu calls the jailer and asks for Gurumaa’s digital signs. Gurumaa answers the phone and asks him to check on Neela. Jailer asks Gurumaa about her plan. She says that Sunehri foiled the entire plan. Gurumaa resolves that she will put an end to Vidyut and Avni's love story. 
 
 
  
 On the other hand, the Commissioner tells Neil that a prisoner is injured. The latter tells him that he wants to go there and check on Avni. Neil says that he can become Onkar Singh again and get proof against Vidyut. The Commissioner permits him to do so on the condition that the department won't help him if he gets caught.
 
 The commissioner visits the jail where Avni is being questioned. He asks about the story behind Sunehri's injury and if she tried to escape. Avni says that Gurumaa is behind this and that Sunehri got injured while trying to stop the former from escaping from prison. The Commissioner questions Gurumaa and the jailer and then declares that he will decide the former's punishment.
 
 
