BENGALURU: Jyothirmayee Swaminathan — who has topped PSBB Learning Leadership Academy in Bannerghatta securing a whopping 495 out of 500 (99%) in the CBSE Class 10 exams — nurtures a simple dream: to become a teacher. 

 With centums in mathematics and Sanskrit, 99 in social studies and 98 in both English and science, Jyothirmayee says her mother and sister, both gold medallists in mathematics, are her biggest inspiration. “That is why maths was easy for me but I loved studying English too. I plan to take up science and have enrolled in RV PU College. I wish to be a scientist some day,” she says. 
 
 A multifaceted personality, Jyothirmayee loves poetry, has a flair for writing and is a trained Bharatanatyam dancer as well. She said these co-curricular activities helped her de-stress during exams.
 
 Another school topper, G Chaitra from Kendriya Vidyalaya, DRDO campus, wants to conduct research in medicine. “I thank my parents, grandparents and tuition teachers for my success. I thought I would score 90%. Chapter-wise revisions and school tests turned out to be very helpful. I wrote boards just like other school exams and didn’t stress much,” said the girl who also scored 99%. 
 
 Vatsal Gupta from DPS East has secured 494 out of 500. “I consistently studied for three hours after school every day, paying more attention to subjects I felt I was weak in. My mother, a paediatrician, took leave to support me,” he told TOI. The school topper wants to study computer science in an IIT and is fascinated by coding and hacking, designing and animation. He has bagged a centum in French.
 
 Ila Manish has bagged the first rank at   (HSR Layout) with 98.8%. She visited her native state Kerala to relax after exams. “I studied for two hours after school on weekdays and three or four hours during weekens. I have scored centums in mathematics and social science. I attended Allen coaching classes also and took tuitions for French,” said Ila who loves poetry and wants to become a teacher.
 
 Veeresha R Sadarad from BEL Vidyalaya secured 98.6% with centums in social studies and science. “I studied rigorously and restricted use of my mobile. I am happy to have surpassed my expectations. Though maths is my favourite subject, I’m upset I couldn’t notch up the perfect score having fallen short by three marks,” said the aspiring doctor.
 
 (With inputs from Dhanyatha M J, Madiha Abrar, Harshita Saraf)
 
 
