MUMBAI: Even before it takes off, the Mumbai Cricket Association’s latest and perhaps most ambitious venture, the   has got into troubled waters.

 
 TOI has learnt that one of the six successful bidders for a team in the city-based tournament, real estate firm, the Shree Naman Group of Developers, has backed out, expressing its inability to submit the bank guarantee due the stringent rules imposed by banks in the aftermath of the Nirav Modi-Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam. “Yes, the Naman group wrote a letter to Probability Sports (the company formed by IIFL and Wizcraft to run the league) CEO   today, informing of their decision to back out from the league due to difficulty in arranging the bank guarantee.
 
 Post the Nirav Modi-PNB scam, the banks have become much stricter in these cases. Earlier, the bank guarantee could be arranged at the managerial-level, but now, one has to contact the head office of a bank, which takes around a month. It’s a sensible decision on the group’s part to inform us right now, as we can give that team to the next-highest bidder after due diligence,” a top   official told TOI on Monday. “We’ve still given them (the Shree Naman Group) time till tomorrow to sort out their issues, but it looks unlikely,” he added.
 
 “As per the rules of the league, all the owners are supposed to submit a bank guarantee which is five times the value of the bid amount of the team which they’ve bought. Shree Naman Group will also have to cough up Rs 1cr caution money, which is forfeited if you cancel your bid at this stage,” informed the source. This development wouldn’t be music to the ears of the organisers, who were ironically supposed to hold a workshop for the team owners on a day when one of them backed out. Considering that the tournament is just a fortnight away - it’s supposed to be played at the Wankhede Stadium from March 11 to 21 - time is fast running out to put everything (squads, support staff, telecasters) together. The teams too haven’t been finalised yet.
 
 The MCA has already been under-fire from many quarters for allegedly allowing the agencies running it to make more moolah out of it than the association itself. Last Thursday, batting legend  , signed up as the brand ambassador of the League, hailed it as an opportunity to showcase the talent from Mumbai who don’t get the opportunity on a bigger stage.
 
