Nagpur: Now, those planning to visit Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) at a short notice can avail the tatkal facility by paying Rs4,000. This is in addition to Rs2,200 Gypsy charges, Rs300 guide fee and camera charges. In a bid to curb malpractices by resort owners doing online booking in fake names, government has decided to scrap add-on facility. Now, resort owners will have to book tickets with names of those who will actually visit the park. A decision to charge same fee for Indian and foreign tourists has also been taken. As reported by TOI on November 27, almost all decisions in the proposal sent by PCCF (wildlife) were approved in a meeting called by forest and finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar at Mumbai on Wednesday. Additional chief secretary (ACS) Praveen Pardeshi, principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge, and senior forest officials also attended. Sources close to the minister said, “The meeting approved tatkal entry for Rs4,000. A quota of 10 has been earmarked for tatkal. The bookings will open three days earlier at 8am and close at 5pm on the third day.” Sources said tatkal quota has been pulled out from online quota of 92 vehicles. Now 76 entries will be available online from all gates. The remaining quota of six vehicles has been converted into a mini bus and one Canter as per NTCA formula of 1 canter equalling to 3 Gypsys. The quota of three vehicles for foreigners has also been converted into 1 Canter. Now overall six Canters will operate from Tadoba. This will include four from Mohurli and one each from Navegaon and Kolara gates.  The booking period of 120 days in advance is also being restored. But, strangely, for booking between 120-60 days in advance the charges will be Rs4,000, same as tatkal. Bookings less than 60 days in advance will cost Rs1,000. The same bookings on Saturdays and Sundays will cost Rs8,000 and Rs2,000 respectively. Besides, entry through discretionary quota will cost Rs2,000 instead of present Rs1,000. There will be no spot booking. The meeting is learnt to have approved individual vehicle registration fee for Rs5,000 with security deposit of Rs20,000. For resorts located in buffer and paying conservation fee, it will be Rs15,000 with security deposit of Rs25,000. It was also decided not to register any new vehicle, barring the 16 whose registration was cancelled by the field director. The cancellation included vehicles of some resorts owned by influential people in Kolara and Khutwanda. The move seems to be to please them as many top officials stay at these resorts. The meeting also approved entry time restricting it to 30 minutes after opening time after which it will be taken as no show. Tourists will end up losing money. The Canters can be booked via telephone. Besides, mini bus, which was shut earlier, will be available now offline from Tadoba office at Chandrapur.