NEW DELHI: For the first time since the   crossed the halfway mark of 272 on its own in the   by winning 282 seats in the May 2014 general elections, the party’s individual tally now stands reduced to the bare minimum majority mark of 272 (excluding Speaker).
 
  Even this tally is delicate as one BJP MP, Kirti Azad, stands suspended from the party, and another MP   is on a rebellious course.
  
  This does not make the Modi government a minority regime as BJP plus NDA allies still have a comfortable majority in the Lok Sabha. But it signals two things: first, BJP has been losing many Lok Sabha bypolls even as Opposition parties, either by tapping the anti-incumbency mood or through strategic realignments, have wrested these seats.
  
  The BJP’s shrinking individual tally also makes the party depend more on NDA’s allies during key floor tests in the Lok Sabha when some of them such as the Shiv Sena is upping its ante. It also makes rebellious BJP MPs valuable in the number calculation.
  
  “Ever since I raised the issue of corruption in DDCA, I was suspended from BJP even as the government refused to probe the charges I raised. Since then I was not invited to attend the BJP parliamentary party meeting,” said Azad.
  
  The BJP individual tally coming down to 272 on Saturday –– after the LS Speaker accepted the resignations of BS Yeddyurappa and B Sreeramaulu as MPs after the duo took oath as MLAs of the Karnataka Assembly –– ironically, coincided with Yeddyurappa resigning as three-day chief minister of Karnataka. The two bypolls in Karnataka, whenever they are held, could see BJP fighting against the new JDS-Congress alliance.
  
  The May 28 bypolls to four Lok Sabha seats is turning interesting as BJP needs to put up a better show to climb above the 272-mark. Two of these bypolls are in Maharashtra, caused by the resignation of BJP’s Nana Patole from Bhandara-Gondia and due to the death of BJP MP C Wanga from Palghar. BJP candidates here are now pitted against the recently revived Congress-NCP alliance candidates.
  
  In the third bypoll, caused by the death of BJP MP in Kairana in UP, the BJP nominee faces RLD candidates backed by other Opposition parties. In the fourth bypoll in Nagaland, laid vacant by CM Neiphiu Rio’s resignation from LS –– a BJP ally is fighting.
  
  The BJP’s number dip in the LS coincided with Opposition parties wresting some BJP bypolls. While BJP retained seats in the bypolls in Vadodara in Gujarat, Shahdol in MP and Lakhimpur in Assam, BJP lost its sitting seats Gorakhpur and Phulpur in UP (to BSP-backed SP), Beed in MP (to Congress), Gurdaspur in Punjab (to Congress) Alwar and Ajmeer in Rajasthan (to Congress).
  
  While BJP ally PDP lost its sitting seat of Srinagar in the bypoll to NC, another bypoll is not being held for almost two years since CM   quit her LS seat Anantnag. BJP ally and Meghalaya CM Cornard Sangma is also scheduled to resign his Lok Sabha seat.
  
  
 
  
