KOLKATA: A 41-year-old teacher and her private tutor husband reportedly committed suicide by hanging themselves at their rented residence at Nayabad, close to   off EM Bypass. The deceased was identified as Utpal Ghosh(51) and his wife  . The incident was reported around 9.40pm on Sunday.

 According to cops, a suicide note recovered from the second floor of the rented residence indicated they had loaned some money to start a new venture but were unable to do so. The victims’ relatives, however, alleged   had recently ventured into real estate business at   in Hooghly and was receiving threats from some locals there. The Purba Jadavpur police, who is investigating the case, said so far they have not found anything that can act as evidence against the complaint.
 
 Police sources said Ghosh was a private tutor while his wife Kole was employed at a government school in Rashbehari. The duo had another rented apartment at Lake Gardens and they stayed off and on a both the apartments.One of Ghosh’s nephews Tarik Ghosh, who hails from  , used to stay with the two teachers as he is presently pursuing higher studies from a college in the city.
 
 On Sunday, he had gone to his maternal uncle’s residence and upon his return, he found the second-floor entrance was locked from inside. He then took help of neighbours and tried to break in.
 
 Cops, however, finally managed to break in and recover the two. “”Preliminary investigation revealed the duo was suffering from frustration and depression due to financial hardships,” said an investigating officer.
 
 Both of them were declared brought dead at the MR Bangur Hospital. Prima facie, cops say it is a case of suicide, but the final decision will be given after the post-mortem report.
 
 “We are not certain if it was a suicide pact or one of them committing suicide after finding out that the other was no more,” said an officer. The forensic experts are visiting the spot to preserve evidence, said sources The victim’s nephew Tarik, however, claimed Ghosh was receiving threats and extortion calls from Bhadreswar ever since he made business plans there. “We have registered a case of unnatural death but we will probe these fresh allegations too,” added the investigating officer.
 
