NAGPUR: Shopkeepers and traders from   erupted in joy after city MP and Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin   agreed to their demand to shift the road widening project. However, NHAI officials maintained that they were yet to get any written communication to shift the start point of the project from Old Katol Naka to New Katol Naka and beyond.

 At the same time, they also didn’t deny the claim by the project opponents that the road widening from 30 metres to 45 metres on the stretch has been called off. The news also brought cheers to environment friendly residents who were concerned about the fate of several old trees dotting the stretch from Old Katol Naka.
 
 At 10am on Saturday, over 400 protesters accompanied by MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, corporators from BJP and Congress gathered at a   ground. District guardian minister   too was present. Later, a delegation along with the political leaders met Gadkari at his Gokulpeth bungalow and sought his intervention as they were facing demolition of homes and shops.
 
  chief Vyari Sangh told TOI that the minister has accepted their demand. “The widening will start from New Katol Naka, Gadkari assured us,” he said.
 
 Gadkari himself couldn’t be reached for his comment. His personal assistant didn’t respond to TOI’s SMSes.
 
 An NHAI official associated with the project said the minister accepted the representation and discussed damage control measures. “The existing width of this road is 30 metres. NHAI wants to widen it to 45 metres to include service road for locals that will give them right of way as well as keep NHAI’s carriageway free of hindrances and check accidents,” he said.
 
 The official added that NHAI would start the proposed widening from Fetri somewhere at Outer Ring Road point if it has to exclude the city stretch. He said the NHAI did try to make a case for its project, which it believes was essential for development.
 
 The decision on the starting point of the widening project would be taken in a week, the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, many shops remained closed till 2pm on Day 2 of the bandh call given by the organization. This forced residents to travel to nearby localities to make their daily purchases of groceries and other items. As the news about positive outcome spread, several shops were opened by evening.
 
 
