Mumbai: Within few months of banks initiating insolvency proceedings against a dozen large corporates, insurers have put together a customised cover to protect the professionals appointed to run these defaulting firms. 

 The cover is aimed at ensuring that the insolvency professional ( ), who takes on the role of the firm’s CEO at the behest of lenders, can take big decisions without fear of legal action.
 
  has put together a cover for three of the 12 companies and is in talks with the remaining nine. “The cover is a combination of a Directors & Officers (D&O) policy and a professional indemnity cover with lot of improvisation and client requirement included in the policy wording,” said Amit Agarwal, director, JLT Independent   Brokers.
 
 The D&O cover protects top management of a company against unproven claims from employees, shareholders and regulators, while professional indemnity covers are usually taken by professionals against legal action by their clients.
 
 Once lenders are successful in getting an insolvency petition admitted, the board of directors of the company is dissolved and the committee of creditors become the owners and they appoint an insolvency professional to run the company. 
 
 IPs are licensed professionals. Most often they are attached to accountancy firm. In the recent cases, the IPs are attached to one of the big four accountancy firms.
 
 “The IP functions as a quasi-director and also as a professional. The risk is higher as this is an outsider who has come in for six months,” said Agarwal. While it is the lenders who appoint the IP to run the company and give him blanket permission to take day-to-day decision they do not provide him indemnity for his actions. This has compelled the IP to look for insurance.
 
 The size of the insurance cover depends on the size of the company’s debt and the fees of the insolvency professional. Covers usually range from $2 million (Rs 13 crore) to $25 million (Rs 1,625 crore). Despite the modest size (compared to the net worth of the Indian insurance companies) these covers are almost entirely issued on the back of global   support.
 
 “One of the reasons why these covers have to be backed by special reinsurance agreements is that the they are not covered by the open-ended treaties that insurers have with global reinsurers. This is because the IPs are usually partners in the Big Five accounting firms and these firms are often targets for litigation because they are seen to have deep pockets. 
 
 According to Agarwal, class-action suits also cannot be ruled out because most of the companies are listed. “The specific worry is the defence costs. While most of the claims would be in the nature of allegations and would need to be proved, there would be legal expenses involved,” said Agarwal.
 
 
