CHENNAI: Four lakh civil engineering graduates are produced every year but only an estimated 24,000 architects come out of colleges in the same time frame. Stating that there is a shortage of architects in the country, M Thirumeni, dean of School of Architecture & Interior Design, SRM University, said the country met only 20% of the recommended requirement of 1lakh architects per year.

 
 “With 400 architecture colleges which have an approximate intake of 60 students, we produce around 24,000 graduates per year. This is only 20% of the national requirement,” he said.
 
 He was speaking at a seminar — Celebrating Indian Architecture, a tribute to the 90-year-old Pritzker prize winner   — here on Saturday. The event was organised by   and Architecture Swarnabhoomi ( ).
 
 Thirumeni advised students to join independent architecture schools rather than architecture courses offered in engineering colleges. This is because, he felt, architecture students tended to adopt the theoretical mindsets of engineers when combined together. “There are two components to architecture: one being the creative arts that involves the drawings and the technical component that involves learning of building systems that converts drawing into built form. We need more hands on application and more of free thinking individuals, who will experience different ideas and cultures,” he said.
 
 Proprietor of Design Action Group, Zoyab Kadi also shed light on Doshi’s style of architecture spanning over six decades. “Human comfort, climatic conditions, and a respect and understanding of local traditions – these were the three key stones used by Doshi in his work. It was never frivolous and there was no ornamentation. He also said the perception of architects catering only to the wealthy and affluent needed to be debunked,” he said.
 
  members from MIDAS also opined that architecture industry needs a disruption to make people think differently, and that it is crucial for architecture students to first unlearn what they have learnt earlier for real learning to take place.
 
