Launched in September 2012,   is a monthly rating index based on several measurable parameters, including the stars’ Box-Office performance, their ability to stay in the news across print, TV and online, their brand endorsements, and their popularity among fans on the Internet and social media. These are taken cumulatively to assign the actors a final rank called the ‘T Score’. Times Celebex is a scientific and robust ranking system based on data collected from 60+ publications and 250+ TV channels, making it the first ever ranking system for Bollywood. We have put together the stars’ ranking for the month of February 2018.

 Akshay Kumar’s turn in R Balki’s Padman was applauded. The actor played a part modelled on Arunachalam Muruganantham, a social worker and inventor.   made news for the response her period drama Padmaavat received. She, too, was appreciated for her turn as a princess.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 leaps from the 22nd rank to the 15th rank 
 
  leaps from the 13th rank to the 9th rank 
 
  leaps from the 25th rank to the 21st rank 
 
  leaps from the 37th rank to the 12th rank 
 
  leaps from 9th rank to the 3rd rank 
 
  leaps from the 42nd rank to the 19th rank
 
 
 
  
  
 
 leaps from 63rd rank to the 3rd rank
 
  leaps from the 40th rank to the 7th rank
 
  leaps from the 18th rank to the 5th rank
 
 leaps from the 9th rank to the 4th rank 
 
  leaps from the 31st rank to the 26th rank 
 
  leaps from the 50th rank to the 32nd rank 
 
 
 
  He announced his return to TV with 'Dus Ka Dum' as a host and 'The Great Gama' as a producer. 
 
 His film 'Aiyaary' was in the news for the change in its release date and its reviews. 
 
 : He made news for taking over Rakesh Sharma’s biopic and flagging it off later this year. 
 
  Apart from his professional commitments, his sudden hospitalisation made news.
 
  There was news around his Twitter account which was hacked into and his new American series. 
 
 After a noteworthy performance in 'Padmaavat', he moved on to his next film, 'Gully Boy'. 
 
  After pleasing reviews for 'Padmaavat', he started shooting 'Meter Gul Batti Chalu'. 
 
 : The promotions of 'Raid', featuring the actor in the role of an Income Tax officer, kicked in. 
 
  His first look from Shoojit Sircar’s 'October' was widely appreciated. 
 
 
 
 
  While there was talk about her marriage, she flagged off her next film with her father. 
 
  She was appreciated for her performance in 'Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety'. 
 
 : The promotions of 'Welcome To New York' and her forthcoming projects made news.
 
  She made news for her turn in Sidharth Malhotra’s 'Aiyaary'. 
 
  She joined   and the cast of 'Brahmastra' for the first schedule of the film. 
 
  Her performance in 'Padman' was widely appreciated. 
 
 : Her forthcoming projects and interviews with international glossies put the spotlight on her. 
 
  She was in the news for her on-going projects, 'Sui Dhaaga' and 'Zero'. 
 
  News around her film 'Race 3' continued to make the rounds of social media. 
 
 
