Kolkata:  , the US president’s son now in India to launch   before his father was elected, said in Kolkata on Wednesday he would again push for projects in India after five to seven years, despite losses The Trump Organization has incurred, indicating his father would run for a second term.

 Trump Jr also reiterated what he had said a day earlier, about the company hav-ing to suffer business losses because of his father’s election. He said The Trump Organization has had to put at least half a dozen projects in India on the back burner bec-ause of the presidency. 
 
 On Tuesday, Trump Jr had twice talked about losses in business opportunity because of his father’s presidency, first at a media interaction in Delhi in the afternoon and then at a private dinner in Kolkata in the evening. 
 
 “We were discussing about 12-15 deals in India. Of these, five to seven deals could have happened, but couldn’t due to my father’s presidency,” Trump Jr said. He and his brother Eric took charge of the company after their father was elected president. But their continued involvement with the company, particularly Trump Jr’s India trip, has led to accusations that they were seeking to cash in on the first family status by offering exclusive dinner and conversation to investors in Trump properties across the country.
 
 Trump Jr said he wasn’t even sure if the deals that were in the pipeline would remain after the Trump presidency, but said he would use the interim period to foster relationships with partners in India.
 
 At the dinner event in Kolkata on Tuesday evening, Trump Jr had remarked that he looked forward to renewing relationships and partnerships after politics, referring to resumption of business as usual after the presidency. On Tuesday, and again on Wednesday, he talked about the “self-imposed” rule of not striking any new deal as long as Trump was in power. 
 
 Trump Jr, on Tuesday, had said that he had learned to do business in India the hard away after visiting it multiple times in the past decade. “I have been coming to India since I was in the late 20s. Now I am 40. It has taken a decade to create relationships in India. The irony is that, having taken so long to get this far, we can now only complete existing projects and not venture into new ones,” he had said. On Wednesday, he said he would return to further the relationships in the years ahead and look at the vibrant hospitality sector. Though The Trump Organisation is primarily a real estate company, it also has interests in hospitality, golf courses and resorts.
 
 On his maiden trip to Kolkata, Trump Jr said he was pleasantly surprised. “Kolkata is a great city; it is clean, there are lots of open spaces and parks,” he said, adding he was struck by its warmth. “I have received an amazing welcome. Even the construction workers (at Trump Tower Kolkata) greeted me. I will return to this city,” he said.
 
 
