PUNE: The   ( ) — the Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) provider in the city — is planning to introduce a mobile   refilling station after commissioning 51   in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad .

 The CNG refilling unit will go to those areas of the city where the MNGL has still not commissioned gas stations. The proposal is at the testing stage and awaiting the required permissions pertaining to safety and security.
 
 According to MNGL, the number of vehicles running on CNG is constantly on the rise. According to the latest report, about 1.77 lakh vehicles in the city have installed CNG units so far. These include cars, autorickshaws, private buses and PMPML buses.
 
 
 
  
 
 MNGL’s managing director A M Tambekar said that a mobile CNG station would be a breakthrough. “We have been working on the concept for the past few months. The proposal has been tabled. Pune will be the first city to have this facility. The unit will be placed in a particular area for a week or so. It can keep moving to different places as well. We will chalk out the movement plan of vehicles once the sanctions are given. MNGL will certainly be able to reach the areas where its services are not available,” he said. 
 
 “The use of CNG, which is known as a cleaner fuel, is on the rise in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Private car owners are preferring CNG because of better mileage, low cost, low maintenance and better availability,” he said.
 
 He said, “MNGL is providing the necessary infrastructure to cater to the people. We have commissioned 51 stations so far . That will go up to 55 in the next two months and a total of 75 refilling stations will be made operational in the district by March 2019, including the urban areas of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The 75 stations will the capacity to meet requirements of vehicles”.
 
 MNGL said it was constantly communicating with the   to provide vacant spaces for CNG stations besides allowing the digging up of roads to lay pipelines to extend CNG and PNG’s reach in the city. 
 
 PNG is piped natural cooking gas that the MNGL supplies to homes. “Of the 51 stations operational in the city, some are round-the-clock. The waiting at stations to refill gas has dropped considerably in the past few months,” a senior MNGL official said.
 
 
