JAIPUR: After its inclusion in the ‘iconic sites’ programme of the central government, Amber Fort has now been identified for the ‘Adopt a Monument’ scheme that aims at ‘softer intervention’ by a private company to improve facilities in and around the historic fort.

 Sources in the state tourism department said that Noida-based V Resorts, a travel solution company that provides standardized premium experiences in the leisure travel space, has submitted a proposal for adopting Amber Fort.
 
 
 
  
 
 “The department is examining the proposal but it is too early to comment anything about it. Yes, we have identified two monuments in the state but the Amber Fort will be the first monument to be covered under the scheme,” said the official.
 
 Last week, Union tourism minister K J Alphons and secretary Rashmi Verma were in Jaipur to attend an inbound travel mart.
 
 
 
 
  During the visit, they also held a stakeholders’ meeting for conducting a gap analysis and preparing a master plan for developing Amber Fort as one of the iconic sites in the country with a project cost of Rs 60 crore.
 
 It is learnt that a top official of the private company was also present at the stakeholders’ consultation meeting. However, it is not clear if both the schemes – iconic site and Adopt a Monument – will be merged to avoid overlapping of work and responsibilities.
 
 The Adopt a Monument project plans to entrust heritage sites or monuments and other tourist sites to private sector companies, public sector companies and individuals for the development of tourist amenities. They would become ‘Monument Mitras’.
 
 Under the scheme, they will provide basic and advanced amenities at tourist destinations, and look after operations and the maintenance of amenities.
 
 The Monument Mitras will associate pride with their CSR activities and get visibility on the monument premises and in the Incredible India website. The project aims to develop synergy among all partners.
 
 The scheme has come under criticism of historians and archaeology experts. Even the   party attacked the BJP government at the Centre after the   won a contract last week to adopt the   in New Delhi. The opposition party alleged that the government was privatizing monuments with the scheme. However, the government maintained that the contract is for five years and being given on a no-profit basis.
 
 Rajasthan has tried the model in the previous tenure of  . But the scheme ran into rough weather as the Archaeological Survey of India was not a party in the arrangement. But the new scheme is a tripartite one, involving the state, ASI and the private or public entity.
 
