NAGPUR: Mahametro has submitted a proposal to   (NIT) seeking to take over the entire   to minimize shifting of amusement rides. NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar has given in principle approval to the proposal and the modalities are being worked out. The amusement park, located near Ambazari lake, is being run by Haldiram Foods.

 Interacting with the media on Tuesday, Mahametro managing director Brijesh   said that the solution had been reached at after several round of meetings with NIT officials and owners of the concessionaire firm. “We told NIT that changing the alignment of our corridor was just not possible. It had been finalized through a gazette notification of central government. It would take another gazette notification to get it changed, which is very difficult,” he added.
 
 The MD pointed out that it was NIT, which had finalized the alignment of the Metro corridor as it had asked Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for prepare the detailed project report (DPR).
 
 Dixit explained that Mahametro needed a 20 metre wide patch of land below the viaduct as per Metro safety norms. “Access is needed to the viaduct from ground in case of an accident. This was the biggest reason for our need to acquire 3 acre land of Krazy Castle. It could only be waived off if the entire land belongs to us,” he added.
 
 The MD further said that if the amusement park land was handed over to Mahametro, the agency would ensure that minimum shifting of rides was required. “However, the ticketing office and a few rides will have to be shifted in this case too,” he added.
 
 Haldiram had developed Krazy Castle on NIT’s 6.4 acre land on built operate and transfer (BOT) basis in 2002. The civic agency had given land to the concessionaire on 20 year lease. 
 
 When Haldiram learnt about Mahametro’s proposal to acquire part of its land it told NIT that it was ready to close down the park provided it was given a compensation of Rs162 crore. According to the concessionaire, the park would lose all its charm if half of the land was acquired by Mahametro.
 
 
