GURUGRAM: Government schols in Gurugram have fared poorly in the results of the senior secondary (Class XII) Haryana School Education   (HSEB) exam, whose results were released on Friday. Gurugram’s ranking, in terms of pass percentage, was 18 out of 21 districts in the state. 

 Gurugram had a pass percentage of 56, which was an improvement on the 52.01% it recorded in 2017 (with 20th rank), but it was still far behind state   Rewari, which had a pass percentage of 72.43, followed by Kaithal with 70.40% and Jind with 69.05%. Palwal district came last, with 44.54% students getting pass marks. This year’s result is also far worse than two years ago, when, in 2016, it had recorded a pass percentage of 60.85, with 14th rank.
 
 
  
  
 
 Experts in the district education department believe the reason behind Gurugram’s poor results is the high number of children of migrants who are enrolled in government schools. Prem Lata Yadav, district education officer said, “This year’s results are not good. There is a shortage of teachers, which we hope to resolve in the coming year, by ensuring that vacancies get filled. But the results are also negatively affected by the number of students who join or leave mid-session, as they arrive from or leave for other states.” 
 
 Ram Kumar, district education officer of Kaithal, agreed, saying, “There are many migrant students in the state, who invariably don’t perform well. Most of them join school mid-session, and some leave school early. There was a shortage of teachers in government schools in this district, but that has now been fulfilled.”
 
 Toppers in the district said they heard of their performance from their teachers. The rest had to wait till 10pm on Friday for results to be uploaded.  , a student of Holy Child Senior Secondary School, Hisar, who came first in the science stream with 98.2% marks, said, “I studied for 4-5 hours daily. I never took tuition.” He wants to become a doctor. 
 
 Monika of Government Girls Senior Secondary School (GGSSS), Kaithal, who came first in the commerce stream with 96.8% marks, said, “I’ve always been a bookworm. People say government school students don’t study, but that’s not true. There are many students like me who are studying in government schools and can compete with those from private school. For now, I will perhaps party for a day, but then I’ll get back to studies.” She wants to become a chartered accountant.
 
 HSEB has declared from now on, board examination results will be released on digital lockers. Board chairman Jagbir Singh said, “The board will now provide digital lockers to students.” The board will deposit their marksheets and certificates in the central government’s cloud-based depositary facility DigiLocker, which will facilitate easy access to documents from smartphones.
 
 
