A seven-year-old girl from Lamington Road fell off a horse in Matheran and suffered grievous injuries to her head on Saturday morning. Rasheeda Radiowala’s family rushed her back to the city and admitted her to ICU in Saifee Hospital. The incident brought to fore the fact that despite several fatal horse-fall incidents at the hill station, Matheran’s B J Hospital is yet not equipped to handle emergency cases.

 BJ Hospital’s Dr Uday Tambe said, “The girl suffered injuries around her brain. She was administered eight stitches before being relocated to Mumbai. She also had a swelling on the right side of her head.”
 
 The accident took place around 11am when   was on ahorse ride and was being followed by her mother on another horse. According to a source, when the child and her mother were at Alexander Point, a monkey jumped on the tree branches overhead, distracting Rashida’s horse. The handler couldn’t control the horse as it panicked and went amok, throwing Rashida on the ground. The Class II student’s head hit some rocks and she went tumbling along, said the police.
 
 Assistant inspector   said, “The girl and her mother were part of a group of 10 persons. We have not yet recorded the statements of the family members. The handler,   (45), said a monkey distracted the horse, leading to the accident but this is his negligence. A station diary entry has been made.”
 
 Rashida’s father   said, “My family reached Matheran on Friday and we were out on Saturday morning.”
 
 Head constable S M Patil said, “None of the riders were wearing the safety gears. The horse is owned by one Rahim Walage.” The   (MHSMC) on February 29, 2016 had set aside Rs 5 lakh for purchase of helmets for horse riders but nothing has moved since then.
 
 MHSMC chief officer Sagar Gholap said, “We cannot purchase helmets for private business. The police are the licencing and enforcement authority for horse riders. They should make helmets mandatory.”
 
 “We will make safety gear mandatory and will also penalize violaters,” said Acharekar.
 
 Activists too blamed lack of safety measures in Matheran. “The horse owners and handlers should be trained,” said an activist, Janardan Parte.
 
