CHENNAI:   is hoping to get third time lucky as the Indian made the main draw of the Australian Open on Sunday defeating Canada's   1-6, 6-3, 6-3 in the final qualifying round in Melbourne.

 
 This will be Bhambri's third appearance in the main draw of the first Grand Slam of the year. In his last two appearances in the main draw, Bhambri had lost to Andy Murray in 2015 and was knocked off by   in the first round in 2016. But the former junior world No 1 said he was hoping to break the first-round barrier this time. "Making it to the main draw is definitely a great feeling. But I don’t want this to end here. I had lost earlier in the first rounds but this time I hope to carry on for a few more wins at least," Bhamri told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Bhambri struggled with his serve in the first set and could barely hold on to one service game before Polanksy pocketed the set with ease. However, the Indian bounced back in the second set as his first serve win percentage rose from 29 to 75 and he did not drop a single point on his second serve and went on to break the Canadian twice to force a decider.
 
 "I didn't have a great start today. So I just had to fight back and keep the score tight in the second set and I am happy that I managed to convert my chances when I got it," he added. Bhambri grabbed the only break point that came his way to book his berth in the main draw in an hour and 55 minutes.
 
 Bhamri began last season after coming back from an injury at the Chennai Open. From there he went on to have a stellar season defeating top players like   in the Washington Open and giving Denis Shapovalov quite the scare in   on the way. Reflecting on last year the India No 1 said that he hopes to carry on the good form into 2018 as well. "Think I did a good job last year. I was coming back after a long injury and my rankings had dipped. I tried to find the right balance between playing tournaments and working on fitness to keep myself injury free. I am happy with the results I got. Hope this year gets even better," Bhambri sounded confident.
 
 But it was all over for Chennai boy   as he failed to clear the final hurdle and went down fighting to another Canadian Vasek Pospisil . World No 139 Ramkumar came back to win the second set but eventually lost 4-6, 6-4, 4-6 in one hour, 44 minutes.
 
 
