BATHINDA: A day after getting admitted to a rehabilitation centre, a 19-year-old drug addict ended his life by hanging from a ceiling fan in   on Wednesday evening. Alleging foul play in the death, the deceased’s family staged a protest and demanded that the matter be thoroughly investigated.

 After the district administration assured to provide some compensation, the family agreed to cremate the mortal remains. Police performed legal formalities under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
 
 The youth was reportedly addicted to cannabis and was admitted to the rehabilitation centre on Tuesday. On Wednesday evening, other inmates found him hanging. 
 
 Gajjan Singh, father of the youth, said as his son was illiterate and used to operate an auto-rickshaw. “He took drugs occasionally. On Tuesday he told me that he wanted to shun his addiction of cannabis and for that he got admitted to the rehabilitation centre. My wife had gone there with him to complete all the admission formalities. On Wednesday, I got call from the rehabilitation centre staff saying that my son had hanged himself. We went there and saw that a table was kept under the ceiling but the body had already been removed. It looks like there is conspiracy behind it as my son had shown willingness to leave drugs and he was the type of person who would kill himself. We want the police to investigate the matter.”
 
 Gurwinder Singh, a worker at the rehabilitation centre who looks after security, said some inmates and staff members saw the youth hanging fram the ceiling fan and there was no foul play involved.
 
 Bathinda deputy superintendent of police (rural)   said when the police reached the rehabilitation centre, the victim was hanging from the ceiling fan and no one had raised any suspicion or named anyone for the incident.
 
 Bathinda sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Balwinder Singh said, “The administration sympathizes with the bereaved family. We will write to the state government for compensation, and if it accepts our plea the family will be provided relief.”
 
 
