MOHALI: The debt-ridden   ( ) is yet to recover Rs 15 crore as rent from five departments to which it has let out parts of   here. 

 PSEB owns Vidya Bhawan and its headquarters is also located in the building. According to a top official of the education board, none of the departments has paid rent for the past five years. PSEB chairman Manohar Kant Kolahia said they would take up the matter seriously. “We will ensure we collect the revenue earned from the building,” he added. The departments that owe rent money to the PSEB include: director public instructions (secondary), Punjab State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), director general of school education ( ), director public instructions (primary elementary), and director public instructions (colleges).
  
  
 All the five departments are related to the field of education. “The departments have not paid a single penny since they started functioning here in 2012,” said the chairperson. “They have been occupying a major chunk of space at floors of the building. We have been sending repeated reminders for recovery of rent, but have not got a reply to date,” the chairperson added.
 
 DPI (secondary) is the department that owes the highest amount of rent, Rs 5.63 crore, to the board.
 
 
 
 
 Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) chairperson Manohar Kant Kolahia said the state government, in all, owed Rs 150 crore to the education board for text-book payments and pending rent. “The board is yet to recover Rs 123 crore from two departments of the Punjab government for supplying textbooks for free for distribution among schoolchildren,” he added.
 
 While the state welfare department owes Rs 101.73 crore, department of school education is yet to pay Rs 21.5 crore for books distributed under Sarv Shiksha Abhiyan in the past four years. In the 2015-16 and 2016-17 financial years, the Punjab welfare department did not pay a single rupee for bills raised against the supply of textbooks.
 
 Punjab secretary (education) Krishan Kumar said they would reach a solution soon. “As far as scams are concerned, the matter is under legal proceedings,” he said.
 
 PSEB Employees’ Union president Sukhchain Singh Siani said the board must make efforts to recover pending dues from the state government. “This will at least help the board be financially stable, and pay salaries on time,” he said.
 
 
