HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) minister   inaugurated the   in the city on Wednesday. The Rs 44.30 crore project was taken up by the GHMC under the   (SRDP).

 During the inauguration, he gave the tentative dates for the completion of several other projects in the city. “The Mind Space underpass will be completed by March, the Mind Space flyover work is expected to be completed by June, the Biodiversity flyover will be completed by March 2019 and the Rajiv Gandhi statue flyover will be completed by December this year,” the minister said at the event.
 
 The dates of completion of works that are being carried out in the LB Nagar circle by the MA&UD were also announced. The Chintal Kunta underpass will be completed by March, the Kamineni LHS flyover will be done by June and the RHS flyover will be completed by March 2019.
 
 Under the SRDP, a flyover is also being constructed near the Kamineni Hospital. The Kamineni LHS flyover is expected to be completed by June and the Kamineni RHS flyover is expected to be completed by March next year.
 
 Further, in the GHMC west zone that covers the IT corridor, the Durgam Cheruvu Cable Stayed bridge, which has been taken up at a cost of Rs 184 crore, is expected to be completed by March 2019. The grade separators are also part of the project. The Kothaguda grade separator, which has been taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 265 crore, is likely to be over by June next year, and the Balanagar grade separator is expected to be constructed by September 2019, at an estimated cost of Rs 387 crore.
 
 While several works under the SRDP have been sanctioned, works worth Rs 2,900 crore are under sanction stage. “The Indira Park to VSTelevated corridor, Rethibowli Nanal Nagar flyover, Shilpa layout to Gachibowli flyover, Amberpet No. 6 flyover and Khajaguda tunnel and elevated corridor are under sanction,” said a senior GHMC official.
 
 As part of Strategic Road Development Plan, the government has proposed Rs 23,000 crore to solve traffic problems by providing grade separators and flyovers at 54 junctions.
 
 
