The unrest began with a ‘candlelight march’ at   at about 7pm, where 300 to 400 persons participated. Soon after that, the mob first moved to Wide Angle cinema and tried to enter. Eyewitnesses said a number of participants of the ‘candlelight march’ had started tying handkerchiefs over their faces, in preparation of the havoc they were going to unleash.

 The mob then moved to Gulmohar Park Mall and damaged the facade before moving to SG Road and setting vehicles parked outside Acropolis Mall on fire. A few vehicles, including a car, were flipped over. The mob then moved to Himalaya Mall, where the maximum damage to vehicles and property was reported.
 
 Nimesh Shah, a resident of Shreeji Flats near Himalaya Mall, said, “A mob of some 2,000 persons started vandalizing the mall and burning the bikes. The situation was out of control because there were only 15 policemen at the mall,” he said.
 
 Eyewitnesses said that the mob pelted stones or chased people who tried to film the violence on their mobile phones. Vehicle owners lamented their losses as they said they had nothing to do with the film.
 
 These episodes were followed by widespread panic and apprehension for the residents and those working in the area. Nilesh Panchal, a resident of Sanshraya flat at Vastrapur, said, “The mob entered our society and vandalized my car. I really don’t know what to say or do.”
 
 Sharad Patodiya, who was visiting an apartment building in Vastrapur, reported damage to his car. “I was merely a guest at someone’s place and parked my car outside. I don’t understand how these protests can help anyone,” he asked.
 
 A large number of citizens also turned up at the spot and traffic jams were reported in most areas in the western side of the city. “It took me more twice as long as usual to get home from work as I was stuck on SG Highway for about an hour. It was havoc,” said Heli Shah, a city-based professional.
 
 Rumours also kept city cops on their toes as additional forces including armed police were deployed at all affected areas. While top city police officers were not unreachable, sources said that all malls and multiplexes beefed up security for Tuesday night and Wednesday.
 
 
