CHENNAI: The   ( ) has for the past three months not updated the list of special buildings in the city that have been issued planning permission, leaving homebuyers at the mercy of developers who, they fear, could saddle them with houses in unapproved buildings. The planning authority has also pulled out the landuse map, which tells one under which zone and survey number the property concerned falls, from its portal, they say.

 Since January 31, when details of the planning permission granted for 21 special category buildings were last updated, the window on the CMDA website where such information can be accessed has remained blank. All structures with ground plus three floors or stilt plus four floors are categorised special buildings. On an average, the planning authority grants planning permission for more than 300 special buildings each year.
 
 The lack of this key information online, many homebuyers complain, has allowed unscrupulous developers to take them for a ride.   resident   who approached a developer, after surfing the CMDA website for the details including the planning permission provided by the authority, said he was asked to cough up a huge sum. “The developer asked for ?25,000 to furnish the details and said the amount could be adjusted against the sum I would pay him if I decided on buying the property. But, there was no guarantee that the money would be returned in the event that I decided not to opt for the property,” he said.
 
 
 
 Sivasubramanian was also notkeen on travelling totheCMDAofficefor accessing theinformation. “It is a herculean task because one must be willing to make multiple visits that would consume atleasttwo months,” hesaid.He alsowonderedwhy officialswere notupdating crucialinformation like planning permission whiledata on approvalfor layoutswas available almost instantly on the CMDA’s website. As if this was not bad enough, the CMDA has knocked out the web-basedGIS LandUseInformation System (LUIS)from itswebsite.Thefacility enablesthecommon man to viewthe map of a property andcheckwhether there are any restrictionsfor construction of buildingsfalling under thesurvey number concerned.
 
 At the click of a mouse,one can also verify if any change has been made in the particular land zone, classifying it as residential, mixed residential or commercial. “It is a deliberate attempt to suppress transparency under CMDA limits,” alleged B Kannan, secretary of the T Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Noting that the last window to verify the details through land use map has been shut,he said that suchthingswere a clear reflection for lackof transparency. When asked about updating plan permission details of special buildings on the portal, a CMDA official said that necessary action wouldbetaken in this regard.As regardstheLUIS,hesaiditwouldsoon be made availablefor users. “Thereweresometechnicalissues andwe arein talkswiththeNational InformaticsCentrefor restoring it,” theofficialsaid.
 
