If there was ever a true-blue theatreperson, it’s got to be N   Koothapiran. From being a child artiste in his father’s plays, to coming into his own, to now roping in his son to act in the plays he directs, he’s sort of both held, and passed on the baton. “Theatre is in my blood, and my passion,” avers Ratnam, who started out as a child artiste in the play  . “Now, I am 52, and work for  . Yes, it’s hectic, but I always take out time for theatre,” he says, recalling how, for seven years, since 1972, he did radio dramas for the  , and then also for Doordarshan. “There was this person called Sai, he’s no more now, in Ardhra Fine Arts. It was he who spotted my talent for acting and included me in stage plays. In fact, my first play, directed by my father, was written by Sai. Then, I did Raja Veetu Kannukutti and Engirundho Vandhaal for VS Raghavan. 

 Coming back to the present, Ratnam is, at the moment, getting ready to receive some laurels coming his way. Quite self-effacing, he says, “Mudhra is conferring the title Nataka Mudhra on me tomorrow. It is the inauguration of their drama festival. It’s a prestigious award, and earlier people like ARS, Crazy Mohan, Mouli and Venkat have received it. It’s all the blessings of my dad, and I feel honoured.” And at the mention of his dad, he slips back to the past again, “I started supporting dad when he came out of AIR and started his own troupe. Actress   used to have a troupe back then, and it was for her that we did one of Vaali’s plays, India Today — I played Manorama’s son. It was a satire, sudden aa ippo Barathiyar India ku vandha eppudi irukkum, avar enna pannuvar, ennalam paarpar… it took off from there. Then I did a Sri Priya play, in which she did a triple role; it was a murder mystery, and I was Johnny nu oru servant; the pivotal role. In 1985, when I finished college, I did my first movie, Ivargal Varungala Thungal – it had Prabhu and Ambika in the lead.”
 
 Quite a veteran, Ratnam says he’s seen the ups and downs of theatre life, all in Chennai, of course. So what has been the one constant in all these years, when it comes to the theatre scene in Chennai? “The fact that plays always have an underlying social message. For example, my play Jeshta Kumara became a big hit, and that tells me social message ulla plays click aagum, even in today’s times. When I started writing plays for my own troupe, we staged Unnal Mudiyum Thatha. My appa did the main role, then there was me, and my son Vignesh, too. It was a play that saw three generations of my family come together on stage and that also became very famous — and again, a play with social message. It won the Special Category Best Play award, too. Adhukku apparam, came Oru Robvin Diary. In 2014, dad passed away and I continued his legacy and started leading the troupe. In 2015, I came up with my fourth script, Soppana Kozhandai — it was staged in the famous Kodai Nataka Vizha; that and Kaleeswara Bhavanam also got the Best Play; and then came Sathuranga Paarvai. So, what’s a play without a message? Pala vishayamgala, solla mudiyatha vishyamgala orey moment la sollitu poyudalam in a play. If we just keep laughing, life will laugh at us. That’s why we have the sixth sense — to find meaning in life. Theatre isn’t about advising, but trying to tell a bad thing in a sugar-coated way,” says Ratnam.
 
 He opines that theatre is thriving in Chennai. “It’s growing like anything. So many people are starting their own troupes. Short films ku eppudi craze irukko, the same is for theatre now. There is not much buzz around theatre generally speaking these days because so many other things have come up as entertainment. There’s cinema, radio and then comes drama. Once upon a time, radio va overtake panni TV vanthuduthu. Now cinema has taken over. If you see, drama la vandha vaa daan cinema layum vanthuruka. At one point in time, all theatre actors and writers went to TV, so there was a dearth. Then came a phase when drama was totally forgotten. And now, there’s a revival of interest again. So many people are coming up every day and asking, ‘Can I join your troupe?’. Youngsters are showing lot of interest, and that’s a good thing. Now, my son acts in my plays, he does the lead in Skanda. So the love for theatre will definitely pass on to the next generation,” says Ratnam.
 
 However, there’s a lot of scope for improvement, too. “Troupes are dependent on Sabha dates. Earlier, we used to have 150-odd Sabhas, now there are just 15 to 20. And among them, too, not all of them put up plays. I am the secretary for the  , but still, my plays are totally dependent on patronage and individual sponsors. I can put up more number of shows if I have contacts — that’s the deal here. And then, the premises are extremely costly, the newly renovated   don’t have subsidies for artistes. So, the way ahead for theatre in Chennai, the way I see it, is to stage in colleges and schools. Interestingly, academic institutions are showing lot of interest. Ethiraj College asked us to stage Oru Robovin Diary for their annual day. I am tapping that angle more these days,” signs off Ratnam. 
 
 
