KOLKATA: The   (KMDA) has decided to go ahead with the execution of the proposed four-lane flyover in Jadavpur despite the fact that cops have gone “official” with their reservations about the project. State urban development and municipal affairs minister   — who is also the KMDA chairman — said that he was aware of some objections from the police. “This has now been resolved. We will issue the work order very soon,” he told TOI.

 “Tender documents should open in the next 10-15 days,” said a KMDA official.
 
  
  
 
 In a written communication to KMDA, the cops said there was “no requirement” for the flyover and a few “changes in furniture and traffic flow” can address the problems plaguing the area right now. Sources in   had even clarified that they have not given any go ahead to the traffic circulation plan for this massive construction that can stall traffic in several parts of south Kolkata. This is contrary to what the   cops have done — they have drafted abasic scheme for traffic movement in Sector V where a bridge is being planned around the same time.
 
 The four-lane flyover on Raja S C Mullick Road — pegged at Rs 248 crore — will start where the Dhakuria bridge ends and cross Jadavpur police station and Jadavpur 8B bus stand before ending at Sulekha crossing. “There is extreme traffic congestion between   and Jadavpur PS crossing, and the flyover will ease it,” said a KMDA official.
 
 In previous meetings, Kolkata Police had consistently raised objections to three projects — the flyover from Dhakuria to Sulekha, a flyover from Ultadanga to Girish Park and another ramp from Maa flyover that will come down towards the Ballygunge-end.
 
 On Monday, the cops said they were hopeful that their concerns would be given a patient hearing. “Some small changes that can reduce snarls between Dhakuria and Jadavpur police station will be put forward,” said an officer.
 
 “We have analysed the traffic flow and found that during the construction of the bridge — which can last anywhere between two to three years — there may be some uncertainty for residents of Selimpur, Jodhpur Park and Jadavpur since this stretch is vital for north-south movement. The move can also clog the two major roads for south Kolkata — Eastern Metropolitan Bypass and SP Mukherjee Road. Prince Anwar Shah Road, which houses a mall and has seen a massive jump in vehicles plying towards Bypass, will be inadequate to handle the pressure,” said an officer.
 
 Police said the maximum traffic snarls on this stretch happen at the Jadavpur police station crossing and at 8B bus stand. “In order to decongest this point, we have taken several measures like streamlining pedestrian and bus movement near 8B and, at the Jadavpur police station crossing, changing the signal timers based on traffic flow at a given point of time,” an officer explained.
 
