PANAJI: In a scathing attack on the running of the government in the absence of chief minister Manohar  , BJP MLA Nilesh   said here on Friday that “right now, the government is not functioning”. Coming down heavily on the council of ministers, Cabral said: “I have been very vocal in saying this, the cabinet is indecisive.”

 Cabral, who represents the   belt of Curchorem, appeared to be getting frustrated with the state government’s inability to find a solution to the mining crisis after the Supreme Court directed closure of all iron ore mining operations from March 16.
 
 Giving vent to his angst to a gathering of industrialists at the CII’s annual day, Cabral, who is also the Goa Tourism Development Corporation chairman, said the corporation couldn’t even start its own taxi service as Parrikar was away in the US for medical treatment.
 
 Indicating clearly that the current dispensation was not able to handle any crisis in the absence of Parrikar, Cabral said: “I made it a point to meet all ministers. Even today I met all of them, and told them to have a cabinet and decide in the interest of Goa. Whether it is auction (for mining leases) or not, just decide. Let us go forward and don’t keep things hanging.”
 
 Parrikar has constituted a three-member cabinet advisory committee (CAC) comprising PWD minister Ramakrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai and urban development minister Francis D’Souza. “We couldn’t even have a cabinet meeting today (Friday),” Cabral said.
 
 D’Souza said the CAC could meet on Wednesday and take up the issue of mining if the chief secretary put up a note to them. 
 
 Parrikar in his order, before leaving for the US, said that the chief secretary in consultation with the principal secretary to the CM, will have to prepare the agenda for CAC meeting.
 
 He said even approaching the Supreme Court to seek approval to resume mining till alternative arrangement are made could be one of the options before the government.
 
 “From the information I have gathered, auctioning will take a long time. There were options after the verdict was given—auction is just one of them. The others being running the mines through a corporation or taking legal recourse,” D’Souza said.
 
 While Parrikar had ruled out a review petition, he had also said running the mines through a corporation was not feasible.
 
 Sardesai also said some decision has to be taken on the mining crisis at the earliest as around 1.5 lakh persons will be left unemployed. “We have asked the chief secretary to give us a brief on exactly what is the situation,” he said.
 
 But Cabral was not in favour of the auction process and felt it would lead to further litigation and would take as long as four years. He advocated that the Modi government could introduce an ordinance permitting mining operations to continue in Goa under strict supervision of the government till the state was ready to auction the mines.
 
 “There are 120 leases that are active and of these, only 40 are operating. These 40 leases are giving us the socio-economic stability in the state,” he said.
 
 Despite criticism from all sectors about the all-party delegation to New Delhi, Cabral said it was successful in proving a point to the Centre.
 
 “It is good enough that we could make the center aware that a delegation is coming and make the center aware that the people of Goa are interested in the mining continuing. That was the reason for going to Delhi. We went to prove a point,” Cabral said.
 
 
