KOCHI: The bird watchers in the city who assembled at   and   to scout for the house sparrows were disappointed to find that the population of house sparrows is dwindling. 

 According to a random survey conducted by Kottayam-based NGO   (TIES) on Saturday, a concrete elevation of the households and modern-day architecture as one of the major reasons behind the rare sighting of sparrows. The survey was done in connection with the World House Sparrow Day, which falls on March 20.
 
 "Last year we found around 450 house sparrows but this time we only came across around 332 of them. There is around 30% fall in just one year. In Marine Drive area, 198 house sparrows which include 97 males and 101 females were spotted while 134 birds, including 68 females were spotted," said  , nature education officer, TIES. 
 
 House sparrows are domesticated birds so they love to be with human beings, said  , secretary, TIES said that the old houses with window panes, stack and ventilators used to be their favourite places but those nesting havens for birds are fast disappearing. In cities, these birds make nests under the eaves, in cracks and holes in the walls of the buildings which are not relatively safe."
 
 "Food scarcity has also led to the rapid declining of these bird species. Earlier, shopkeepers at grain shops used to find house sparrows as a lucky mascot and gave them food. But these days most of these shops are located inside concrete buildings and as a result birds are not getting food. The hatchlings of sparrows depend on insects entirely for about two weeks from their birth. Spraying of insecticides and toxic chemicals to kill insects leaves them with no food and as a result they even die. Cutting down of tress and climate change are also having a negative impact on the house sparrows," said Kurian.
 
 "It has been found that electromagnetic radiations (EMR) from mobile communication towers are causing a threat to the existence of sparrows and it can affect their breeding," he added.
 
 Meanwhile, R Sugathan, a renowned ornithologist, said that if people can spend some time to arrange nesting places as well as keep water and grains in pots to feed sparrows in their balconies or terraces and gardens it can result in a positive change.
 
 "For the past few years there has been a drastic decline in the number of house sparrows. So conducting surveys and studies every year alone won't increase the population of house sparrows. People and communities have to take a joint initiative to protect them," said Sugathan.
 
 
