Last week saw a group of Mumbaikars embark on an interesting stroll in one of the city’s oldest neighbourhoods —  . It was no ordinary walk, but one interspersed with temples, beautiful   and an element of mystery and charm, giving it the name ‘bhul-bhulaiya walk’. The walk commenced from the   at 8 am.

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Says   organiser, Bharat Gothoskar, “There are more than 100 temples in the area —we could just enter 10 of them. Bhuleshwar also has a 
 , a 
 (where artificial jewels are made) among others.” So, why is it called a ‘bhul-bhulaiya’? “Well, this area is a labyrinth of old streets and gullies. You really need to know your way around here, or else you can 
 literally get lost in the maze here,” he explains.
 
 
  
  
 
 The old walls and houses hark back to an age when the pace of life was slow; it’s a striking contrast with life just a few roads away. The residential structures also have a melange of architecture with diverse influences everywhere. For Marine Drive-resident Hema Ankolkar, these are reasons to start clicking. “I’m fond of photography and old places and Bhuleshwar was a fantastic walk-through. It is the history and geography you learn in school coming alive in front of you. It was nice to see this side of the city still throbbing with such charm, giving a community-like feeling. Wish Mumbai could still retain this old-world charm. It would be a treasure for the coming generations,” she says. 
 Bharat, a mechanical engineer, is passionate about old buildings and structures. He elucidates, “Unfortunately, places like these may not last long as we are seeing so many areas in the city succumbing to redevelopment.” But for now, a lot of old structures can be seen. 
 The group visited the temple complex of Bhuleshwar Temple, the oldest structure in this area. Other temples include a Hanuman, Ganpati and Rameshwar Temple in the complex. “Every temple has a tank, so we tried to take a look at the one in that was there with each temple.” The place is also home to   (animal shelter), which was constructed in 1834; one can go and feed the cows there.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 A history of food also unfolded for the group in Bhuleshwar. For instance, locals claim that 
 was invented in one of the streets here. Says Shiraz H, Chandivali, businessman, “According to local lore, a street vendor had seen 
 being made by some merchants in his hometown. When he arrived here, he realised that the inhabitants of the place were mostly Gujaratis and vegetarians, so to attempt at something similar, he did his own mash-up with veggies on the 
 . That’s how 
 came about!” 
 There is a gully where you get 
 and roughly 30 other varieties, such as pepper and ginger-garlic. There is also 
  which is like a 
 or a 
 on a 
 . For `20, the street mash-up is delicious and won’t break the wallet. The other must-have is the ice 
 made in layers. “Unlike the Mahim 
 which is softer, this is harder and made in layers with butter paper,” explains Bharat. 
 When you are here, you can also stop by the 
 , who have spices for everything — from local Gujarati fare to Italian and Mexican cuisine. The two-and-a-half-hour walk ended with a visit to the   and of course, a round of selfies.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
