By: Sudha Pachauri

 
 
 DELHI:   Network organised Bharat Samaj Award 2018. The event was held at India Islamic Culture Centre. 
 
 
 A string of awards were presented to people in recognition of their contribution in several fields, including media, education, art and culture.
 
 On this occasion Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union Minister of Minority Affairs, Ramdas Athawale ,Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment were the guest of honour.
 
 Addressing the event, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union Minister, showered praises on the Media 24x7 for being an institution par excellence. "Media has a great power to influence what we think about things happening around. while admiring the icon of award he said that the award trophy is designed in a unique way and in coming days it will be reminiscing as epitome of glorious and historical past of media."
 
  
  
 
 The programme was hosted by Maroof Raza, Senior Editor, Media24x7. 
 
 As a part of event, prizes and momentoes were distributed. MS Nizami brothers mesmerised all with their outstanding performance.
 
 The event was followed by self composed poetry by Ana dehalivi. She is known for her contribution in the field of poetry and social work.
 
 Mumtaz Khan, Senior Anchor, also presided over the event.
 
 Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Ramdas Athawale, lauded Media 24x7 initiatives and said, "Social media is the fastest growing field these days and awards motivate people for good and I am wishing everyone luck for nearest future endeavour."
 
 Uttarakhand girl, Kanika Sasoni and speech impaired Athlete, Palak Kalia with her father Vijay Kalia were also felicitated with Samaj Ratna Award by Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.
 
 Highlighting the aim of this grand event, Maroof Raza, Editor in Chief , Media 24x7, said, "Bharat Samaj Award celebrates achievements of people in academics, media , sports and cultural activities and the names of the persons to be specially felicitated have been decided on the basis for their continuous efforts to bring harmony and today they all are present as a symbol of unity. We should remember that our great religious preachers and scriptures have always stood for oneness of mankind."
 
 Sushil Bharti, Director at Marwah Films and Video Studios, received Bharat Samaj Ratna Award for his contribution in the field of literature and work for the society. Replying to the felicitation, he said, “My responsibility has increased and I will work harder to prove that the award was given to the right person.”
 
 Dignitaries such as Dr Imam Ilyasi, Achraya Lokendra Muni, Ajmer Dargah Syed faqher  , Sushil Bharti, Amar Singh,Rajya Sabha member, graced the occasion as chief guests.
 
 As a part of event, Abhigyan Prakash, NDTV Editor, Mumtaz Khan, Senior Anchor, Parveen Arshi, Editor in chief, Shagufta Times, Sushil Singh, IAS Study circle and other media persons who have given voice to the people through print and electronic media were also felicitated. 
 
 
