HYDERABAD: In a major boost to the fight against ever-growing antimicrobial or drug resistance, researchers from the   (UoH) discovered a novel species of a bacterium that produces antibiotic. Found in the Buffalo lake on the campus of the UoH here the newly discovered bacterium, Planctopirus hydrillae, could provide a solution to the problem of diseases becoming resistant to majority of known drugs. The new bacteria will also clean up ammonia waste, a growing environmental concern.

 
  
 
 With disease-causing germs failing to respond to even the most potent antibiotics, scientists have been on a spree to find drugs to overcome the challenge of antimicrobial resistance. In this backdrop, the discovery of antibiotic producing   may help in the development of a new drug. The bacterium was isolated from aquatic plant Hydrilla. The discovery was published in the latest issue of the scientific publication,  .
 
 “Our laboratory is working on discovery of new bacteria and novel biomolecules, which are useful for human, animal and environmental health. Antibiotics are one such important biomolecules which we are targeting from anaerobic bacteria and from uncommon bacteria. This is because most pathogens are becoming resistant to the most common antibiotics produced by many known and common microorganisms,” said Dr  , professor and head of the department of plant sciences, UoH.
 
 He said the new species reported by HCU team is a very uncommon bacterium belonging to the phylum Planctomycetes and was isolated from the university campus. “This is the first report of an antibiotic producing bacterium from the phylum Planctomycetes. Cultivating the bacteria of this phylum is extremely difficult and we are the first group from India to develop the art of cultivating these bacteria which are very useful even for environmental issues particularly for the treatment of ammonia waste. These bacteria are called as “Anamox (Anaerobic ammonia oxidising) bacteria”, prof Ramana said.
 
 Dr Ramana, who was awarded with “TATA Innovative Fellowship”, said he and his team has been working to identify the chemical nature of the antibiotic and the spectrum of antibiotic. They have also sequenced the genome of the bacterium.
 
