NAGPUR: The state cabinet on Tuesday gave a go ahead to   to be an equity partner in the special purpose vehicle (SPV) for 270km Katghora-Dongargarh new railway line in Chhattisgarh. The line will help speed up transportation of coal to power plants in Maharashtra.

 SPV will have Chhattisgarh Railway Corporation ltd (CRCL) and South Eastern Coalfields Ltd (SECL) as other equity partners. Dongargarh-Katghora project linking Bilaspur was included in 2016-17 rail budget at an estimated cost of Rs4,820 crore. Maharashtra will share 26% of the project cost, said Mahagenco officials.
 
 “As line capacity utilization of existing Raigarh-Dongargarh section of main line is 100-160%, there is need for a new line,” said SECR’s senior PRO Santosh Kumar, Bilaspur. “It will bypass major bottlenecks like Bilaspur and Raipur and will help transportation of coal from Mahagenco’s Gare Pelma-II block to units in Maharashtra that generate 10,380MW power and require 41.58 MT coal,” said officials.
 
 SECR officials added Katghora-Dongargarh section will be a through section for traffic to the states of Maharashtra, Telangana and beyond. This corridor will primarily be utilized for movement of traffic on account of Mahagenco.
 
 Chhattisgarh government has formed a joint venture company with the ministry of railways for expansion of railway tracks in the state. Chhattisgarh has 51% share and railways 49%. The joint venture CRCL will construct Katghora-Dongargarh besides three other new viable rail line projects totalling 884km.
 
 “On commissioning of the four new lines, the rail density in Chhattisgarh will reach national average,” they said.
 
 SECR sources said Chhattisgarh had the highest freight loading in the country and one-sixth of Indian Railway's revenue came from here. But the length of rail network in the state was only 1,196km, less than half of national rail density. “Hence, news lines are needed,” they said.
 
 Railway officials said at present 16 coal rakes from South Eastern Coalfields Ltd (SECL) were moving towards Nagpur from Bilaspur daily. The traffic projections give 20 additional coal freight trains after completion of new line.
 
 SECL, a subsidiary of Coal India ltd (CIL), is operating in Chhattisgarh for mining coal, apart from coal mining by private developers. With Chhattisgarh having large coal deposits, CIL is targeting coal production of 908 MT by 2019-20. This will include coal from Gare Pelma I & II big mining blocks in Mand Raigarh. These are allocated to Gujarat Electricity Company Ltd (GECL) and Mahagenco having capacity of 21 & 23 MT respectively.
 
 “As Bilaspur route is congested, the Katghora-Dongargarh line will ease traffic towards Nagpur and beyond. The project is estimated to achieve commercial operation by April 1, 2023,” hoped SECR officials.
 
 
