AHMEDABAD:  , then the chief minister of Gujarat, had laid the foundation stone for the International Centre of   and Technology (iCreate) at Deo Dholera village near Bavla in April 2012. The centre was to promote next-generation entrepreneurship riding on the power of knowledge, innovation and research.

  
  Five years later, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicates the centre to the nation, accompanying him will be Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Incidentally, Israel was among the first nations to sign an MoU for collaboration with the centre. 
 
 Modi’s visit on January 17 will also see the completion of  , a technology platform to facilitate bilateral cooperation between Indian and Israeli start-ups, technology hubs, corporations and key innovation ecosystem players. The event was launched by the two PMs in July 2017 in  . 
 
 Officials of iCreate told TOI that the challenge was to combine forces to develop innovative solutions in the field of agriculture, water and digital health. The winners will get support in terms of funding, mentorship, trip to India and Israel, and market access, among other incentives. 
 
 Anupam Jalote, CEO of iCreate, said that the historic visit is taking a concrete steps by both the countries. 
 
 “On the one hand, India has a large team of innovators and talent coupled with an extremely large market,” he said. 
 
 “Israel on the other hand is a very dynamic place for incubators and is rightly called the ‘Start-up Country.’ The venue chosen at iCreate shows that it is real. The visit is symbolic as it is the only institution totally dedicated to start-up ecosystem,” Jalote said.
 
 The centre already has more than 11 national and international collaborations in diverse fields.
 
 Talking about the future of start-ups in India, and Gujarat in particular, Jalote said that Gujarat has a very rich history of start-ups going back to the time when they were not called ‘start-ups.’ 
 
 “There is a culture of investing by families in their children’s ventures in Gujarat. India has a lot of innovation and vitality. Every innovation is one step forward towards the solution,” he said.
 
 
