World Health Organization ( ) has been sounding an alarm on the rapidly rising burden of cardiovascular disorders (CVD) for the past 15 years. The reported prevalence of coronary artery disease (CAD) in adult surveys has risen 4-fold over the last 40 years. It strikes Indians early and kills many in their productive midlife years. In order to deal with CVD, cardiac surgeries are often considered as the best option.

 Despite the physical benefits associated with cardiac surgery procedures, between 30-60% of all patients experience moderate to high level of anxiety and/or depression, which can remain elevated up to 6 months post-surgery. Traditional, post-surgery education classes do not provide adequate guidance to patients and families to deal with their physical and mental stress. Studies indicate that a holistic class, allowing individuals to focus on their inner-self would prove to have positive outcomes. Several studies have documented the benefits of relaxation techniques in pre and post-operative period. Yoga is one such technique which aids the healing process. It is a therapeutic form of exercise which has been practiced for centuries benefitting both body and mind. For those who have undergone heart surgery, it is important to practice only mild physical and breathing exercises that do not stress the heart while still keeping it healthy.
 
 A study was conducted wherein it was hypothesized that a Modified Yoga (MY) program, tailored to the physical needs of post cardiac surgery patients would have a positive effect on participants. The study results showed that 98.8% patients found the session helpful while 97.4% reported that the session alleviated their stress and 91.7% of patients found that their breathing improved after the class. Also, both male and female patients were satisfied with the yoga intervention.
 
 Cardiac surgery is both physically and mentally challenging for patients and their families. Educational sessions operating currently do not provide adequate stress and anxiety relief. The MY program demonstrated that a holistic yoga class incorporating breathing exercises, meditation and relaxation techniques helped to reduce the levels of stress, pain and anxiety in the participants.
 The yoga recommendations are not meant to substitute your doctor’s advice, but to supplement it.
 
 
 
 
 Dr. N. Senthilkumar, MD, DNB (Med.), DNB (Cardio.), MNAMS, FACC (USA), FESC, Chief Consultant & Interventional Cardiologist, Rane Hospital, Trichy
 
  drnsenthilkumar.nallusamy@gmail.com
 
 
  
 
 
