NEW DELHI: After a lengthy spell of sweltering heat that saw the mercury rising inexorably to the 40 degree Celsius mark this past week, respite came for Delhi’s citizens on Friday in the form of a robust   and light rain. The sudden change in   occurred around 5pm when dust-laden winds started billowing in the capital and surrounding areas, reducing visibility drastically in most areas.

 The strong winds felled at least 11 trees in different parts of the city and caused major traffic snarls in central, east and south Delhi. Trees were uprooted near Karol Bagh, Kalkaji temple, Okhla, Jhandewalan, Akshardham, Baljeet Nagar, Prem Nagar, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, Gyarah Murti and Yamuna Vihar, affecting vehicle movement on the Noida Link Road, Outer Ring Road, Ring Road and DBG Road. There were reports of disruptions in   and flight services too.
 
 Officials from the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) described the weather activity as pre-monsoon thunderstorms, normal for the month of April. “We had forecast a dust storm and light rain in the capital today, and there will be similar activity on Saturday, though with lower intensity,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at RWFC. “This is likely to lead to a drop of the maximum   by four to five degrees, bringing it below normal for the next few days.” Wind speeds meanwhile will be at 80-100 km/hr in this period, the officials advised.
 
 By 8.30pm, Safdarjung Observatory, whose readings form the base for Delhi’s weather record, had logged 4.6mm of rainfall, while Palam recorded 5.4 mm. The maximum temperature for the day before the rain was 36.6 degrees Celsius and the minimum, 22.5 degrees Celsius, which rapidly slid down to 19 degrees in many areas after the rain.
 
 Srivastava explained that the dust storm occurred due to a high variation in the pressure gradient across Delhi, resulting in strong winds blowing from the west. “Rajasthan had similar weather activity on Thursday night and the north-west winds moved towards Delhi due to a low-pressure trough. Haryana and other parts in the region also witnessed similar weather, which generally begins in April,” the scientist said.
 
 Delhi is likely to see some rain on April 10 due to an active western disturbance affecting Jammu and Kashmir. Saturday’s maximum temperature is expected to be around 35 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will be around 23 degrees, officials said.
 
 
