He has no qualms about accepting the fact that he wasn’t really eyeing a medal at the ongoing   (CWG), considering the injury he suffered earlier this year. Despite that,   gave his all to win the country’s third gold in   2018. “I was really hopeless about winning any medal this time because of the injury I suffered during the nationals in January. Yet, I managed to win a gold. Since January, I haven’t been training well. If I did train one day, the next day I would be writhing in pain. I went through a very tough time. In fact, after reaching  , the pain only increased. So, I value this gold a lot,” says Sathish. 

 Ask him about India’s weightlifting haul at the CWG, and he replies, “Thanks to the federation and the government — they have been supporting the sport really well. There was no compromise in terms of the training and things were meticulously planned and executed for the event. If you look at the people who’ve won weightlifting medals this year, only myself and Vikas Thakur are the ones who’ve won medals in the previous CWG as well. The rest of them are new in the CWG medals club for India. That means there are more number of new weightlifters from India, who’re doing well.”
 
 Talking about his native, Sathuvachari, in Vellore, he says the culture of weightlifting has been there since the 80s and the interest for the sport has seen a surge. “Back then, in the 80s, people started taking up sports to get government jobs. If you ask me why people there picked up weightlifting in particular, I think it’s to do with the kind of physically demanding work they did. Most of them are farmers and therefore, lifting weights is part of their daily lives. Those days, people would insert rod into cement blocks and use them as weights. Slowly, more people took to it for its fitness benefits. Weightlifting is still a big thing in my hometown. And at least in the initial stages, it isn’t that expensive a sport. It’s something that would be perfect for a middle-class family,” he says.
 
 Ask him who he’s most indebted to; he says, “There are so many names to take. My coaches, federation, etc. But my parents have been my pillar of strength all these years. My father, a retired army person, was also a weightlifter. And my father’s brother had also been a national champion in weightlifting. He was the one who would buy me weightlifting gear during my initial years in the sport.”
 
 So, what keeps him busy now after his event in CWG? “(Laughs) I will be back in India on April 13. But I want to make the most of my time here, watching other events. If possible, I want to go for the badminton matches. They all, including Srikanth Kidambi, Prannoy and Sindhu came for my event and cheered me. That’s when I actually got to become friends with them. I also like table tennis. But it’s happening quite far from where I am. So, I may not be able to go. I might go for the hockey matches. It’s good to know that our teams are doing well,” shares Sathish.
 
