MUMBAI: Just as the Centre’s Rs 5 lakh health   cover for economically backward families has generated considerable debate since it was announced in the Budget last week, a private firm’s Rs 3 lakh medical insurance offering for children with   has led to much discussion among parental groups and experts.

 Though the Union ministry for social welfare has an insurance scheme called the Niramaya Scheme that offers Rs 1 lakh to children with special needs, including autism, the company’s is the first dedicated scheme in India for autistic children. 
 
 Autism is a neurological disorder that roughly affects 1 in every 68 children and is characterized by developmental delays and poor communication skills. Children are typically diagnosed with the condition between 2 and 3 years of age, and require intensive daily help in the form of speech, physio and behavioural therapies that could cumulatively cost over Rs 1,000 daily.
 
 For parents like Fatima Sheikh, the announcement is a start, however small. “I have friends whose insurance claims were turned down because the company said they had hid their child’s autism. A dedicated   will end this,” she said. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Incidentally, her 17-year-old son was not included in the family insurance scheme after she declared last year that he had autism. She has now applied for the new scheme floated by private insurance company Star Health Insurance.
 
 In January, Star Health introduced the autism policy as a part of its special care series. “We have polices dedicated to various patient groups—a cancer policy for patients with cancer or diabetes cover for patients, and so on,” said the company’s COO Dr S Prakash, adding that it seemed logical to offer a cover for children with autism. 
 
 Autism has a huge social aspect as well because affected children don’t find easy acceptance in schools and peer groups. The company tested the waters by running a group insurance scheme for autistic children last year. “There is a need for such a policy. Hence, we came up with individual policy, though we would like NGOs to approach us for group schemes,” he added.
 
 Not all are happy with the offering. “The scheme only covers people in the 3-to-25 age-group. This is the healthy age when few need hospitalisation that requires health insurance,” said Dr Ashok Shah, member of a parental support group called the Forum For Autism. A Star official, however, said the children would be absorbed into a standard health insurance scheme later on.
 
 Another parent said the scheme offers only Rs 1,500 in an insured year towards rehabilitation therapy. “Rehabilitation or therapy services account for the biggest expenses as far as parents of children with autism are concerned. A sum of Rs 1,500 is grossly inadequate,” said Dr Roopa Srinivasan from Ummeed Child Development Centre, Currey Road.
 
 Rehabilitation services are mainly concentrated in the private sector, with only the major teaching hospitals offering some. “The service is free in public sector hospitals, but it is not widely available for all children to be covered,” said Dr Srinivasan. Moreover, parents have to spend money in commuting or buying special aids for their children. 
 
 The Union ministry’s scheme offers Rs 1 lakh to children with special needs. The scheme used to offer Rs 4,500 per year towards therapies, but this has been recently upgraded to Rs 10,000. “Such a sum helps parents availing of public hospital-run rehab manage their other expenses.”
 
 The autism scheme allows children to take up to four Botox injections for up to Rs 5,000 each. Due to muscles-related issues, some children with autism tend to toe-walk. The treatment entails giving them botox shots that relax their calf muscles and allow them to walk normally. A child may need more than one botox shots to learn to walk normally. 
 
 Parents feel it is a beginning. “Once other companies offer similar schemes, it may get better for our children. Maybe they will be covered for life,” said a parent.
 
 
