Nagpur: MSEDCL regional director BY Khandait has issued a show-cause notice to Amravati superintending engineer Suhas Metre for delaying the reduction in sanctioned load of a Dhamangaon-based co-operative spinning mill. This is likely to be followed by a chargesheet. TOI had highlighted the loss caused to the mill due to the delay in its May 16 edition. In order to avoid such incidents in future, Khandait has started a helpdesk for industrial consumers. They can mail their complaints to helpdeskrdnagpur@gmail.com. If any MSEDCL officer is founding deliberately harassing consumers, then strict action will be taken against him or her. Consumer activist Ashish Chandarana thanked the regional director for his prompt action. “This will send a strong message to MSEDCL officers, who harass consumers. Khandait had discussed the issue with me on Wednesday and I suggested creation of a helpdesk to which he immediately agreed. Such helpdesks should be set up in all MSEDCL regional offices,” he said. Shri Gajanan Sahakari Sutgirni had applied to Metre for reduction in sanctioned load from 800 KVA to 630 KVA in March. Instead of approving the proposal immediately, the SE asked the executive engineer (EE) concerned to submit a large number of reports, which were not needed. These included deciding the point of supply, % voltage regulation (VR) sheet, recommendation on load sanction report etc. The official should have asked the EE to only check whether the current transformer (CT) of the electricity meter would register accurate reading if the load was reduced. As per norms, the Sutgirni should have got the benefit of reduced load in its April bill. The delay caused it a loss of Rs3 lakh. The mill got this shabby treatment even though it is owned by veteran BJP leader Arun Adsad. The Sutgirni will get a higher load factor incentive and more subsidy under the state government’s Vidarbha Marathwada industrial power subsidy scheme when its sanctioned load is reduced. According to Chandarana, there was no need to decide the point of supply in case of an existing consumer. “VR is calculated when load is increased and not reduced. In this case, even checking the CT is not needed,” he told TOI.