Vadodara: Relatives of a woman who had consumed poison at a village in Dahod and died on Saturday morning created ruckus at the Zydus Hospital. Staffers at the hospital being run on a public-private partnership mode were badly beaten up by a mob.

 According to an offence registered by Aznan Ansari, a clinical assistant at the hospital, the woman Sarika Parmar, a resident of the Devdha village in Garbada taluka of Dahod district had consumed pesticide on Wednesday and was rushed to the hospital.
 
 Ansari has stated that Parmar’s condition was critical and was put on a ventilator. According to the complainant, her relatives were advised to take her to a better medical facility. When the relatives decided against doing so, Parmar was admitted to the hospital.
 
 Sources said that Parmar’s condition had remained critical. She died at around 7.30am on Saturday. Soon after her death, her relatives and others rushed to the hospital with stick and smashed glasses of windows and doors at the hospital. They even chased the doctors and beat them up on the third floor of the hospital inside a store room.
 
 Even two women staffers of the hospital were not spared by the mob. The group also dragged two staffers to the ground floor even as they kept beating them. A posse of policemen and other officials rushed to the hospital to bring the situation under control.
 
 Dahod collector Ranjeeth Kumar J said that this was the second incident of its kind within two days. On Friday too ruckus had prevailed when a woman who had attempted suicide by hanging herself died at the hospital. Both the cases were critical, he said.
 
 Kumar did not rule out the possibility of some elements trying to deliberately create trouble at the hospital. “In December, some persons who had alleged that money was being charged at the hospital. This was wrong as the hospital had charged only for implants it had used in a surgery as per norms. These very persons were involved in the problem on Saturday morning,” he said. Kumar pointed out that he was told that there were many who were unhappy with the hospital and wanted to destabilise it.
 
 
