GREATER NOIDA: A man allegedly shot dead his   and   in the middle of a panchayat session that had been organised in a Dadri village on Tuesday to settle a years-old dispute over a piece of  .

 The plot in Chitera village has been the bone of contention between the families of four brothers for years. In 2015, too, a quarrel over the plot had led to the killing of one of the family members by a relative.
 
 The land is owned by the second of four brothers — Kishanlal, Raje, Vedram and Hetram — who is unmarried. The dispute started when Raje decided to hand over the plot to Hetram’s family a few years ago. Vedram’s sons objected to the decision and this led to the 2015 murder.
 
 In 2015, Vedram’s son and his cousin had shot dead Hetram’s younger son over land dispute. On Tuesday, Hetram’s elder son Vikram shot dead Vedram and his wife after the panchayat session failed to end the stalemate.
 
 The meeting on Tuesday was attended by Vikram, who fired the shots, Raje, the original owner of the plot, and his brother Vedram. The session was held around the plot and other villagers were present, too.
 
 Sources said none of the villagers dared to interfere as Vikram Bhati sprayed Vedram (60) and his wife Nattho (58) with bullets with two country-made guns. Vedram’s son has lodged a police complaint against Vikram and two grandsons of Kishanlal. The police have lodged an FIR against the three under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 38 (common intention).
 
 “The panchayat session could not find a solution to the stalemate. As the villagers started going back to their homes, Vikram and Vedram got into a heated argument. Vikram lost his cool and shot at his uncle and aunt. None dared to stop him,” said a shopkeeper who had attended the panchayat.
 
 On December 27, 2015, Vikram’s younger brother Gautam had been shot dead by Vedram’s younger son and his cousin, who is currently in jail. Vedram and his son are out on bail in the case.
 
 Sources said Vikram wanted to avenge the death of his brother and did so on Tuesday in a fit of rage.
 
 After the 2015 murder, Vedram and his wife Nattho had shifted to Ghaziabad but had come to village on Tuesday as panchayat session had been organised to settle the long dispute. After the murder, Vedram and Nattho shifted to Ghaziabad.
 
 According to Usha, the wife of Gautam — Hetram’s younger son who had been shot dead in 2015 — the relationships strained between the families after Raje’s decision to transfer his plot to Hetram’s family.
 
 “My husband’s killing had had a deep impact on our relationship with Vedram and his son. Vikram would get infuriated whenever his uncle and aunt would visit Chithera. A series of panchayat sessions was held to arrive at a compromise,” she said.
 
 Usha alleged that Anuj, who is in jail in connection with the 2015 murder, would call her from inside the lock-up and threaten to kill her and her kids. “Even Vedram had threatened me multiple times,” she said.
 
 Usha and Vikram’s wife Poonam did not go to the panchayat session on Tuesday.
 
 “We got to know about the incident only when the police arrived and asked us to come along to the police station. We got to know that they had had a fight but did not know that bullets had been fired,” she said.
 
 
