Kolkata: Some of them fell silent, listening to the waves crash on the beach and slowly ebb away. Others felt an indescribable thrill course through their fingers as they let the seawater caress their fingers.

 Faced with the open water, the group of 20 youngsters who had gone on a 35km coastal trek had no other way to feel the vastness of the ocean. They were all visually impaired — some completely, others in various degrees, but they didn’t let that dampen their enthusiasm even a little bit.
 
 The group of 20 visually impaired trekkers and five guides from Kolkata headed for Chilika from Puri in Odisha on January 10. The trek was organised by Voice of World, a multi-unit non-profit organization that works with people with disabilities, which is also an affiliate member of the  .
 
 The trek was an experience like no other for Basudev Bholla, who is partially  . “There was water everywhere, and we were walking with the waves,” said the boy with a fondness for adventure and sports. “It was a different feeling when the waves were breaking on the shore and our feet were getting soaked. I felt like a traveller in search of new places,” he said, barely able to conceal his excitement.
 
 For partially blind  , it was an unforgettable experience. “We put up our tents on the beach after reaching Baliharichandi, having walked 13km from Puri,” she said. “We literally slept on sand, and could hear the roar of the sea. There was no one except us, and I was so excited that I could not sleep the entire night.”
 
 Compared with a mountain trek, a coastal trek is relatively easy. “On our way, we sang Rabindrasangeet, teased each other and were up to some mischief or the other. Indra kaku [one of the guides] scolded us, but even that was fun,” said  , who’s also partially blind.
 
 Anjana Mondal does not consider her blindness a hindrance. “I overcame my limitations and am a more confident and strong person now,” she says, adding that the road to Rajhans island was the most memorable. On one side of the trail was the Chilika lake, on the other side was the Bay of Bengal. Walking between the two waterbodies felt unreal. “I touched starfish and jellyfish and could make out, by the sound, when the waves were breaking and when they were receding,” she says.
 
 Her friend Sujata recollects her excitement. “I heard Anjana shouting and calling us. When I went there, I found a beautiful starfish. After walking so much, finding it made my day and motivated me to walk more,” she remembers, a smile playing on her face. She also cherished the moments spent talking to the fishermen’s families and playing with their children.
 
 “Trekking was strenuous, but walking with friends, making our own food, sharing work gave us so much satisfaction. We feel we are lifelong friends now,” adds  , who is completely blind.  , also completely blind, experienced the sea for the first time. “Feeling the ocean with my hands rendered me speechless. It was a dream come true,” she says.
 
 The fun outing was essentially a confidence-building measure, says Gargi Gupta, founder, Voice of World. “The children realise that they, too, are a part of society. That helps them build confidence and shapes their personalities,” she says. But it is Mitra Bhanu Nayak, a volunteer-guide, who puts it more succinctly. “The kids,” he says, “have proved that they can overcome any obstacle.”
 
 
