Ludhiana: While Congress leadership is still trying hard to control the rebels, who have been crying foul over the “discrimination” in the allotment of tickets for the upcoming MC polls, the party was mired in another controversy after pictures of local Congress leder Gursimran Singh Mand with local MP Ravneet Bittu and MLA Bharat Ashu started doing the rounds on social media with Mand claiming that he has rejoined Congress. This created furore among several leaders and workers, who slammed both the MP and MLA for re-inducting Mand into the party, who had stirred controversy in 2016 by posting derogatory social media messages about senior party leaders including chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Kishori Lal and several others. 

 Apparently seeing the protest, the senior leaders went in a denial mode but situation turned embarassing for the leadership after Mand, himself started claiming that he has joined the party in presence of both the senior leaders. Soon Congress workers started gathering at the house of the district Congress president Gurpreet Gogi . Before the situation could aggravatefurther, Gogi released a written statement stating that Mand has not been re-inducted into the party.
 
 “Gursimran Mand was expelled from the party long back for his involvement into anti-party activities and sharing derogatory posts about our senior leaders on his social media accounts. After seeing the pictures of Mand today with MP Bittu and MLA Ashu, several workers and prominent leaders lodged their protest with me. Even I was shocked to see ‘siropa’ being presented to him by them, as there has been no order from the party high command to induct him back. When I asked MLA Ashu about the news making rounds, he clarified that they have not inducted him back into the party. Mand was present in a programme where a number of people were presented ‘siropa’s and they did not realise, when Mand too, got into the queue and received the honour,” he claimed.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Ashu said, “We have not inducted Mand into the party. This was just a confusion due to overcrowding. Neither me nor MP Bittu are aware of the claims being made by him and his followers. We both stand by the decision of our party and there is no question of going against it,” he said.
 
 Lashing out against the leaders, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) general secretary Amarjit Singh Tikka said, “It is very unfortunate that such senior party leaders are inducting anti-congress people into the party and that too without checking their background. Mand was kicked out from Congress for breaking the discipline and hurling insults at the most senior and respected leaders. There is no way that the party cadre will tolerate such a person being inducted into the party. This is a very serious matter and therefore, we will take up this matter with our national president Rahul Gandhi.
 
 However keeping the controversy alive, Gursimran Singh Mand issued a statement and also posted a tweet tagging Congress president Rahul Gandhi saying, “ It seems in 2019 some leaders of Ludhiana Congress will be unable to make your (Rahul Gandhi) the prime minister. Because today when MP Ravneet Bittu and MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu honoured me for campaigning for the party in MC elections and working for the party in routine, and not even 2 hours had passed that the district Congress chief issued press note claiming that Bittu and Ashu have not inducted me back into congress”
 
 
