You may be bobbing to the latest chart rage Childish Gambino’s This Is America, but a study claims that music has become sadder and darker than it was three decades ago...
 
 
 Lykke Li’s upcoming album titled 'So Sad So Sexy' couldn’t have been better timed. It could very well have been the title of the research from the  , which states that pop music has become sadder in a span of 30 years. 
 
 The research was based on a massive data of 5,00,000 songs released between the years 1985 and 2015. It puts the onus on the songwriters, stating that listeners want happy songs as can be seen from the success of songs like Pharrel Williams’ Happy that defy trends, but get served dark and sad songs instead. Interestingly, the research states that while the songs are dark in tone and words, they are more dance-able. 
 
 Singer   seconds the research. He says, “I have noticed that the number of feel-good, breezy, romantic songs have decreased over the years. The light romantic duets used to be the most popular genre around six to 10 years ago. There are more brooding romantic songs being sung by male singers or Punjabi club songs. It is the same pattern for international pop, where the tempo of club/dance numbers are around 100 BPM (beats per minute); it is slower than the earlier 120/130 BPM. Even the production (music design) is going more minimal. Let’s see which direction music moves from here.”
 
 Music composer   sees the drop in happy songs as a reflection of changing musical taste. “I personally feel that today’s youth and composers understand pathos,” he says, adding, “I’ve been observing people tripping and dancing to these kind of songs because there is a certain depth that they connect to in the songs. My personal favourite is the soundtrack of '50 Shades of Grey' — 'I Know You Baby' by Skylar Grey. Besides having a strong melody, there is a certain maturity in the song.”
 
 Singer   has no problems about pop songs getting sadder. She says, “Though I have not come across this research, but it is interesting and true. I don’t have a problem if pop songs are getting sadder. In fact, I love them and feel connected with such songs. English songs like Adele’s 'Hello' or 'Someone Like You', Charlie Puth’s 'We Don't Talk Anymore' or Miley Cyrus’s 'Wrecking Ball' have been topping the charts because they are intense and connect with love and pain.”
 
 While musicians back home find this research a revelation, let’s look at the factors on which the songs have been rated ‘happy’ and ‘sad’...
 
 
 
 
 
 When it comes to popular music, acoustics play a big role. The research found that the use of these acoustics was lot less brighter than it was in the past. It was darker in tone.
 
 
 
 The research echoed previous findings that songs have become more self-centred over the years, often using words like ‘me’ and ‘I’. There was a decline of ‘positive emotions’ and a liberal use of words like ‘hate’ and ‘kill’ in songs. 
 
 
 
 Researches have cited the significance of BPM (i.e beats per minute) in a pop song. A feel-good song reportedly had average tempos in the 140-150 BPM range, while a typical pop song has around 118 BPM. And as Shaan pointed out earlier, dance songs nowadays fall around 100 BPM. The research team cited examples of happy songs — 'Freedom' by Wham!, Bruce Springsteen’s 'Glory Days', 'Live is Life' by Opus, while recent songs with a low happiness index included Sam Smith’s 'Stay with Me' and 'Whispers' by Passenger. 
 
 
 
 Happier songs are considered to be successful, which means it is upbeat and danceable. And according to the research, most of these happy songs are often sung by women than men. But while charts favour these happy and danceable songs, they pale in front of the number of sad songs being churned out in the music industry.
 
 
