Vijayawada: Some of the proposals in the Rs 1,481-crore jumbo budget passed by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation on Friday have met with stiff opposition from citizens.

 Though opposition parties and citizens, welcomed the VMC’s decision to not revise property tax slabs, they are opposing the proposal of installing   in every household.
 
 The civic body, which is trying to install water meters in the city for the past two decades now, once again made a proposal in the budget council meeting, on Friday. City mayor Koneru Sridhar, who proposed to install meters, said that wastage of drinking water in the city has increased in recent time, which is imposing additional burden on the civic body.
 
 The mayor said that water meters will help control wastage, and proposed to follow the system incorporated by the local body in Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla. He said denizens will have to pay for the quantity they use. The   said it will repair old water lines in the city and implement 24X7 water supply soon.
 
 Taxpayers association and locals are seriously opposing the VMC’s proposals. “The city is located on the banks of River Krishna, and despite that we are buying purified drinking water as VMC has failed to supply water. Now, it is trying to install water meters to loot the public,” says MV Anjaneyulu, secretary of taxpayers association said.
 
 The Left parties alleged that the budget introduced by VMC is nothing but a jugglery of numbers. CPIM secretary Ch Babu Rao said that there is nothing new in the budget except a few allocations to pending projects. 
 
 He asked the VMC to focus on completing pending projects such as Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission Scheme houses in Ajit Singh Nagar. He alleged that the VMC is ignoring concerns of the common man, and spending crores in the name of beautification.
 
 However, denizens welcomed the VMC’ s move to develop corporation schools, and transforming toilets in schools. Advanced facilities such as sanitary napkin dispensers and disposers at VMC high schools has got a positive response. “Measures taken by the VMC to develop sanitation in the city is remarkable. We have noticed a drastic change in VMC schools. We are sure these schools will give a tough competition to the corporate schools,” said M Vasanti, a homemaker.
 
 
