NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s   has unveiled an ambitious Rs 200cr plan to replicate the scenic greenery on the approach roads to Indira Gandhi International Airport for landscaping and checking the widespread dust pollution. It plans to cover 500km of the capital’s arterial roads. Ten vertical gardens have also been planned before the smog season arrives in order to trap the dust.

 “The greening work will be handed over to a private agency which will also be responsible for maintenance of the central verges and footpaths for three years. The airport stretch will be the model,” said a senior official of the PWD’s horticulture department.
 
  
  
 
 Under the ambitious ‘Green budget plan’, the allocation for central verges and roadside work has been hiked by over five times this year, point out officials. “Earlier, we used to allocate Rs 30-40cr and that too under the maintenance funds. This is the first time that work will be carried out on this scale across 500km as a separate project under the plan head with a specific target of reducing dust pollution,” an official explained.
 
 To achieve this objective, three green layers will be created — grass at the ground level, hedges and shrubs at the next level and, finally, trees at the periphery. “We will be using various types of ferns, ficus species, ribbon grass and blade grass on coco-peat based mediums in vertical gardens while central verges will be decorated with attractive patterns with plants like ficus panda, casuarina shrub etc,” the official said.
 
 While looking at various sources of dust pollution, a report by Indicus Foundation last year — “Fixing Delhi’s air pollution” — had observed that 8,686 km of poorly maintained roads in the capital were the biggest contributor. This figure is more than one-fourth of the overall 32,000 km road network in Delhi.
 
 While the final project report is yet to be released, sources said Outer Ring Road (Okhla to Chirag Dilli), KB Hedgewar Marg section near Wazirbad bridge, Mathura road stretch near Apollo Hospital, Satyagrah Marg, stretch from Rajghat till Bhairon Marg, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Deendayal Upadhayay Road and Vikas Marg (Laxmi Nagar to Preet Vihar metro station) were some on the list.
 
 The agency will also develop 10 vertical gardens across Delhi. Four of these will be in the north zone, four in south and two in east. “In the first phase, 10 vertical gardens will be set up at locations that include Indraprastha flyover, Netaji Subhash Place, Wazirpur, Moti Nagar and Lajwanti Garden flyover near Tihar. This work will be completed within the next three-four months.”
 
 Deputy CM Manish Sisodia had stressed on dust control measures in his budget speech this year. Studies by IIT Kanpur have shown that dust alone accounts for 35% of PM 2.5 emissions and 56% of PM 10 in Delhi. More than 131 tonnes of dust is generated daily in the capital. 
 
 “One big factor contributing to air pollution in Delhi is road dust. To reduce such kind of pollution, our government is launching a new scheme, ‘Landscaping of PWD roads’. Under this scheme, we will initiate edge-to-edge paving/greening and beautification of all PWD roads,” Sisodia had said.
 
 PWD can learn from the measures other cities have adopted. “Drip irrigation is being used by Bangalore on many of its central verges. It not only reduces labour and tanker costs but also keeps the soil moist leading to reduction in dust. We are also planning to start some pilot projects,” an official said.
 
 
