KOLKATA: The urge to draw attention and a fad for stand-out posts on social media are pushing youngsters to the brink, making them take risks without bothering about consequences, say psychiatrists.   or those which will attract more ‘likes’ have turned into an obsession for many, they pointed out. It is leading them to devise ways of being different, often with disastrous results like the video shoot on a railway track near   which left two college students crushed under the wheels of a train on Monday.

 The young tend to be impulsive and refuse to believe the outcome of risk-taking behaviour could be dangerous, said psychiatrist J Ram. “Social media posts are driving them to crazy limits. It’s essentially the desire for accolades which makes them click such videos and photos. Till recently, it would be just photos, but now it’s videos. This was inevitable as social media will keep jumping to the next level and its users, too, will move ahead in terms of technology,” said Ram.
 
 Clicking risky selfies is a social disease, felt psychiatrist  . “This has been growing since social networking became fashionable about a decade ago. It’s no longer a means of keeping in touch or exchanging photos but a platform where people, especially youngsters, show off. This clicking and posting exercise is not much different from   or  ,” said Ray. “Just as an alcoholic doesn’t think about the consequences when they go on a drinking spree, these people, too, turn completely oblivious to the risk they are taking. These two youngsters, for example, didn’t even notice the approaching train till it mowed them down. This shows the level of their addiction. In psychiatric language this is called reality testing or the level of consciousness about immediate surroundings. Such acute dependence has to be treated like any other addiction,” said Ray.
 
 Another psychiatrist cited the case of a teenage girl who would slash her hand, click pictures and post them online. “When her parents learned about it and stopped her, she went into depression. Counselling helped her wean away from the addiction,” he said.
 
 It’ll only get worse as internet is here to stay, said Ram. “You can neither block out technology nor keep teens away from social media. So, we must learn to live with it,” he said. Stringent laws and vigil on social media are needed, added Ray.
 
