JAIPUR: As National Highways Authority of India ( ) finally gave a nod to provide financial assistance to the Jaipur Development Authority ( ), the remaining land-acquisition work to construct clover-leaves and flyovers under the 47-km   project is expected to begin soon. 

 The cash-strapped civic body had sought Rs 200 crore from NHAI in advance, which could be utilised for acquiring 26 hectares of land. A senior official at JDA said, "Approval has been given by the NHAI. Now, JDA will sign supplementary memorandum of understanding with NHAI. In this MoU, the revised net present value (NVP) will be mentioned after deducting the advance amount."
 
 The amount provided by the NHAI will be deducted from Rs 350 crore which is proposed to be given to JDA in 10 years after the toll is levied. "As per agreement, NHAI would provide Rs 35 crore to JDA every year. It would also provide 8% interest to the authority. The JDA will receive total Rs 515 crore."
 
 As the present financial condition of JDA is feeble, it has failed to acquire 26 hectares for constructing clover-leaves and flyovers. Sources said, there will be no utility of the Ring Road project till the time overbridges and flyovers are constructed. "The NHAI will spend Rs 238 crore to construct clover-leaves and flyovers. The JDA has proposed an overbridge to cross Tonk Road. Similarly, construction of clover-leaf interchanges was proposed on Agra and Ajmer roads," said a source
 
 The farmers whose land will be acquired to construct clover leaf on Ajmer Road have agreed to surrender their land. These farmers will be provided with developed land in the project as compensation.
 
 However, the civic body is facing difficulties to acquire 12-hectare land at Agra Road end. "As land of many commercial establishments, including a petrol pump, will be acquired, the farmers are demanding cash compensation. It would be nearly impossible for cash-strapped JDA to provide compensation of Rs 150 crore approximately," the official added.
 
 
