MUMBAI: Seven 15-year-old SSC students and one 19-year-old repeater candidate were apprehended on Tuesday in connection with the March 22 Information Communication Technology (ICT)   leak. The minors, including two girls, were produced before the Juvenile Justice Board, which asked the Saki Naka   to release the children on execution of a personal bond without surety.

 The paper leak issue was raised in the legislative assembly on Tuesday and state education minister Vinod Tawde said the state will take strict action against those who leak question papers or change exam centres. Last week, eight students were apprehended for the March 19 history & political science paper leak and later released on bail.
 
 While the seven students in the ICT case were released after they signed the bonds on Tuesday, the 19-year-old was asked to stay back for further questioning. The Saki Naka police said the teen is friends with the nephew of IT engineering student Anwarun Hasan, who has been   for a series of paper leaks linked to tutor Firoz Khan in Ambernath. 
 
 The police have found out that two tuition teachers, Firoz Ansari (42) and Muzzamil Kazi (27), who were arrested on the day of the leak, had got the ICT and three other question papers— Geography, Science, History & Political Science—from this 19-year-old.
 
 The Saki Naka police said that the 19-year-old is friends with the nephew (17) of IT engineering student Anwarun Hasan, who has been arrested in the March 19 another paper leak by the Amboli police, and that is how he got the Geography, Science, History & Political Science papers. However, the police are yet to find out how the 19-year-old got hold of the ICT paper. They suspect the role of two more adults in leaking this paper.
 
 The   came to light when teacher Vanita Shetty of Saint Jude High School in Kaju Pada, Saki Naka, caught two girls looking into their mobiles and referring to textbooks. On inquiring, Shetty found the ICT question paper on the girls’ mobiles. Though the girls were allowed to write the exam, later they were taken to the Sakinaka police station and a case was registered. The same day, DCP Navinchandra Reddy along with senior inspector Avinash Dharmadhikari and inspector Sunil Mane arrested Ansari, who runs a private coaching class on Khairani Road in Sakinaka, and Kazi from Mira Road. The duo was produced before an Andheri court on Tuesday and their police custody was extended till March 31.
 
 As a link has emerged between the ICT and History & Political Science paper leak, the Saki Naka on Wednesday will take the custody of Hasan and Firoz Khan (47) from the Amboli police. Khan, allegedly the History & Political Science paper leak kingpin, is a teacher at a Mumbra school and also runs Brilliant Classes in Ambernath. Besides Khan and Hasan, office boy Imran Shaikh (45) and tutor Rohit Singh have also been arrested for the March 19 paper  .
 
 “Khan clicked picture of the papers at his Mumbra School and sent them to Singh and Hasan, who passed it on to his nephew and the 19-year-old. Hasan’s nephew too is a repeater candidate. Board officials said that they are waiting for the police to trace the source of ICT paper leak before they start any inquiry.
 
 
