KOLKATA: The   on Thursday decided to   doctors accused in the   exactly a year after the four-month-old baby died after colonoscopy at a city hospital.

 Thursday’s move came three weeks after the same council found two doctors guilty of medical negligence in the similarly-high-profile Sanjay Roy death case. The two decisions taken together indicate an increased oversight on healthcare establishments by government agencies, say senior health department officials.
 
  
 “We have taken a decision to charge-sheet doctors accused of medical negligence in the   Chakraborty death case. The chargesheet will be issued soon,” WBMC registrar Dr Manas Chakraborti said. He did not clarify whether all three doctors accused in the case would be issued the chargesheet.
 
 The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, in its verdict on June 23, 2017, found prima facie negligence on part of the doctors.
 
 V R Srivastava (paediatric surgeon), Mahesh Goenka (gastroenterologist) and Sanjay Mahawar (anesthesiologist) and forwarded the case to the WBMC as the WBCERC could probe cases only against private clinical establishments and not against individual doctors.
 
 Two of the doctors could not be contacted for their response and the third said he would wait for the official communication from the WBMC before commenting. “I am not aware of the charge sheet as there has been no communication from the medical council,” he told TOI. The hospital, Apollo Gleneagles, is the common link between both cases. It declined to comment on the WBMC decision.
 
 Four-month-old Kuheli died at the hospital on April 19, 2017, after colonoscopy. Parents Abhjit and Shalu Chakraborty alleged medical negligence and lodged a complaint with Phoolbagan police and the WBCERC.
 
 The commission forwarded the case to the WBMC to probe the complaint of medical negligence against the three doctors. The charge sheet was framed after the council found some “reasonable elements in the medical negligence allegations”, council insiders said, adding that this was a part of the procedure in all cases.
 
 “This is not a verdict but a charge sheet and the doctors will be given a chance to defend themselves. The final judgement on their guilt will come later,” a member said.
 
 
