BHOPAL: In a nightmarish incident, a woman was abducted and sold to a criminal by six people, including a woman colleague.

 The accused lured the woman by promising her help in getting a better job. They sold her to a history-sheeter — who has been involved in human trafficking and was booked on charges of gangrape by Sehore police — for Rs 50,000. Police said that the woman was further sold to a Jaipur based man to marry for Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
  police station, Mukhtar Qureshi, said that the incident came to light when the woman’s husband file a missing person complaint when she did not return for two days from a work trip.
 
 The complainant 30-year-old Vivek Pawar, a resident of Sharda Nagar Nariyalkhera told the police that his wife 27-year-old Arti Pawar works in a marriage bureau located in Firdaus Colony. They have two children. 30-year-old Asha Uikey works with his wife and resides in their colony.
 
 Vivek said that Arti left home on January 30 for a work trip with Asha. She said that that she will return in two days. When she did not return Vivek searched for her in all possible places but could not find her, and filed a police complaint.
 
 Gautam Nagar police registered a missing person’s complaint and started investigation. SHO Qureshi said that police arrested Asha after going through her call details. Asha confessed to her crime during interrogation.
 
 A case on the charges of human trafficking and hatching criminal conspiracy was registered on Monday against seven accused under relevant sections of IPC. Six accused — including two women — have been arrested. The mastermind is still absconding. A four-member police team has been sent to Jaipur to nab the accused and bring back the woman.
 
 Police said that Asha called Arti to her home on January 30. Another woman 23-year-old Kajal Ahirwar, 38-year-old Afroz Khan, 25-year-old Pawan Solank, 34-year-old Nirmal Saxena and Mukesh Maithil were also present at her house.
 
 Asha told the police that they offered to help Arti find a better jo. They took her to Resham Kendra Nariyalkhera, after which they took her to Bhopal railway station. They then took her to   by taxi where they met the history-sheeter Sunil at Biaora Chouraha.
 
 The accused threatened Arti and sold her to Sunil for Rs 50,000. Sunil took Arti to Jaipur in an SUV and allegedly sold her to a man for marriage. Both Sunil’s and Arti’s cellphone are not reachable.
 
 SHO Qureshi said that all accused except Sunil have been arrested. They were presented before court. Asha and Nirmal were taken on police remand while the rest were sent to jail. The SHO said that the accused confessed that they dupe people on the pretext of marriage. They meet the groom’s family pretending to be bride’s relatives. One of the accomplice then marries the groom and runs away with all the valuables within few days of the wedding. Further investigation is on, said police.
 
 
