Most of us do yearly cardiac health checkups including lipid profile echo cardiogram and stress test which happen to be normal most of the times. Still we see our friends, near and dear ones getting heart attacks at early age despite normal health checks. Paradoxically there is another group of people who smoke, drink, eat junk food but still do not suffer from any heart disease. Why is this paradox which many of us fail to understand. 

 Are the health checks that we do are full proof to rule out future possibilities of heart disease? Are these tests enough to find out all possible risk factors for heart disease? Are there any unknown factors responsible for heart disease? Is cholesterol friend or foe? Why does high cholesterol not give heart attacks in all patients whereas people with normal blood cholesterol levels still get heart attacks? 
 
 
 The routine cardiac health packages have the ability to detect cardiac diseases accurately in only 70% of patients. These tests are not meant for screening normal individuals. Rest 30% are either falsely diagnosed abnormal or are falsely missed as normal. These are accepted drawbacks of these conventional tests. Not everyone can undergo gold standard test of angiography to detect blockages. 
 
 Even if we get a prophylactic angiography and find out certain blockages not all of them would lead to  . Studies show majority of heart attacks occur in blockages of less than 50%. Whereas we are told to undergo angioplasty or bypass surgery for blockages of more than 50%. Hence knowing blockages or treating them prophylactically would not really prevent heart attacks. 
 
 It is the inflamed (hot) blockages that rupture leading to heart attacks. This rupture usually occurs in soft blockages rather than harder calcified ones. Stress is the biggest factor that ruptures the soft blocks. Nobody can prevent getting stress but we should learn to de-stress ourselves by regular brisk walking aerobic activities yoga meditation and doing activities that keep us happy. Let go attitude is more useful than holding on to nagging negative thoughts. 
 
 Unconventional risk factors like  , passive smoking, environmental pollution in form of lead and cadmium poisoning through car tyres and paints lead to inflammation within blood vessels. This not only leads to blockage formation but also destabilize them leading to heart attacks and also prevent natural collaterals to function normally. Unfortunately we don't do appropriate tests to detect the ill effects of these factors. 
 
 For the cholesterol hypothesis it was always the blood cholesterol and not food cholesterol that is correlated with heart diseases. Only 10% of blood cholesterol is contributed through diet and 90% is generated by our own body. Thus restricting food cholesterol may not help much. Even with blood cholesterol it is the oxidized cholesterol which even within normal blood limits is more dangerous whereas non-oxidised cholesterol even if high in blood is relatively not bad. Hence we need to prevent oxidation of cholesterol rather than target blood cholesterol levels. 
 
 
 Eat plenty of fruits vegetables and appropriate cholesterol rich foods. Drink plenty of water and sometimes limited amount of alcohol to keep yourself happy and stress free. Smoke fresh air by brisk walking daily. Do not exercise your brain on negative thoughts. Stress your muscles to keep yourself active and healthy. Enjoy your life the way it comes and think all happens for the best. 
 
 Best of luck 
 
 
 
 
