GOLD COAST: For a brief while   thought he was on track to make the podium after he effortlessly cleared the bar at 2.24m in the men’s   final on Wednesday.

 
 “I thought. Oh my God! I’m winning the competition. I was really excited (after clearing 2.24 on the first try) but I lost it from there,” Shankar said later.
 
 At that point, Shankar was in the lead with Australian Brandon Starc, who eventually won the gold clearing a personal best of 2.32m. Reality soon dawned upon the 19-year-old Indian as he struggled when the height of the bar was increased by three centimetres.
 
 Shankar, the national record holder who studies and trains in the US, choked under pressure, lost his rhythm and was unable to lift-off on his first two tries at 2.27. His last attempt was much better but he clipped the bar on his way down and that was the end of a beautiful dream — of a rare medal for India in Commonwealth Games athletics.
 
 But it was still an impressive performance by Shankar - his personal best is 2.28m - to eventually finish sixth, overtaking the likes of Robert Grabarz of England, the London Olympics bronze winner, who ended 12th in the final. Jamal Wilson of Bahamas took the silver which went at 2.30m. Django Lovett of Canada, who also cleared 2.30m, took the bronze.
 
 “This is the first time I started an event at 2.18m as generally in competitions I start with 2.10m. So that was a bit of an eye opener. I then pulled it off at 2.21 and 2.24 and I felt really good.
 
 “But in the 2.27 jumps, somewhere I lost the rhythm. The first two attempts were really bad. I tried to pull everything together in the third but it wasn’t my day. This competition made me realize that if I jump 2.30m it will give me a fair chance in every international competition. These are the positives I’m taking from here,” he said.
 
 
 
 Assam girl   added to her growing reputation on the world stage as she ended sixth with another personal best time of 51.32 seconds. She was tied with Maximila Imali of Kenya who also clocked the same time but finished fifth in a photofinish. Amantle Montsho of Botswana took the gold in 50.15 ahead of Jamaicans Anastasia Le Roy (50.57s) and Stephenie McPherson (50.93s).
 
