Theatre has the power to move you; it can bring you to tears, make you laugh till your stomach hurts and make you think. It can compel you to debate and discuss. Those are just a few things that students in the city feel is the power of this performing art. We spoke to students and teachers to explore the power of theatre in schools and colleges…
Theatre boosts confidence, allows you to express
 
 For many students, theatre is life — it’s a platform that brings out your creative side and allows you to express freely. Says Lokesh Panjwani, a student and co-member of the dramatics club Jzaa at   (SIBM), “There are several ways to express yourself, whether it is through music, dance or acting. Theatre incorporates all these elements, and as students, it allows us to talk about certain issues that we wouldn’t address otherwise.” Lokesh adds that theatre allows you to think outside the box and challenges your creative side. “At SIBM, we perform mimes and street plays. In the case of mimes, it’s all about expressions, without any dialogue. So, in order to get our message across, we brainstorm and come up with creative ideas on how get our message across to the audience,” he says.
 
 While this form of performing art allows you to express yourself, it is also a huge boost if you excel in this field, say students. “When you perform in front of your friends or your classmates, you are in your comfort zone. But when you perform in front of an unknown crowd and you receive appreciation for the same, it’s a huge confidence boost for us,” says Mrinalini Srinivasan, a student and secretary of the dramatics club of Mount Carmel College. Mrinalini says that theatre has become more than just a stage performance. “While theatre has always been about performing on stage, today, it is adapting fast. It’s not just about performing on stage; there is a lot that goes into putting a play together,” she says, adding, “While we perform at our fests, we also perform at other colleges, which again gives us a high as we perform in front of a different audience.”
 
 
 
 
 A student’s life is not easy, given how busy they can be with classes and assignments. In such times, theatre proves to be a breath of fresh air. “One of the main reasons we perform is because it allows us to take a break from classes. Sometimes, when 30-40 students come together, theatre proves to be a great medium to build a bond and rapport with classmates, which may not be possible within the four walls of a classroom,” says Lokesh. For many students, theatre also becomes a medium to show who they really are. “When I first joined the theatre group in college, a lot of students thought I was a science geek. But I wanted to prove them wrong. I’m at ease and relaxed when I perform on stage. It allows me to be myself,” adds Mrinalini.
 
 But students say that it is not always as easy as it looks. There are several challenges in order to be a successful theatre group. “One of the biggest is time constraints. Although most of the skits and plays we perform are improv, there is a lot of preparation as well. If we have to perform at a college fest, we need to make sure that we have ample practice time. Sometimes, practicing during college hours becomes a task as we have to ensure that we are not short on attendance,” says  , secretary, dramatics club, St. Joseph’s PU College.
 
 Then there is rejection of ideas that many have to deal with. “Heading a theatre group requires a lot of effort and patience. There are many ideas clashing and a lot of them get rejected. We try to incorporate as many ideas as possible,” says Mrinalini.
 
 
 
 Does theatre always have to be serious, we ask? “It depends on where we perform; we try to do both. When we are performing at college fests, we have to keep in mind the theme and setting. At fests, the crowd wants to be entertained, so we perform humourous acts. If we perform outside college, say at events, we do serious theatre,” says Nikhil. Theatre as a medium has the power to fluctuate between different emotions. 
 
 
 Teachers say that theatre contributes to the overall growth of a student. “We have seen students who are shy become stars when they are performing on stage. It becomes an experience. As faculty members, we have seen shy students open up during group discussions and think creatively. It challenges the student to think. The best part is they can use different emotions to get their message across,” says  , head of Music and Drama Department, Bethany High, adding, “Theatre is life. It’s about telling a story that has characters. You find your strengths and weaknesses through these characters. And when they enjoy what they are doing, it’s not work anymore. It becomes a part of you.”
 
