MUMBAI: After a week of pleasant weather, the scorching summer heat returned to Mumbai on Sunday as the maximum temperature recorded by India Meteorological Department ( ) touched 41 degrees Celsius. This is the second highest maximum temperature recorded for March in a decade, and the highest in seven years. 

 There were severe heatwave conditions on Sunday in parts of Mumbai and around; similar conditions are likely on Monday, IMD said.
 
 The highest maximum recorded in 10 years has been 41.3 degrees on March 17, 2011. Sunday’s maximum of 41 degrees was only 0.7 degree away from the all-time record high maximum of 41.7 degrees recorded on March 28, 1956.
 
 Residents said Sunday’s heat was unbearable. Pritesh Shah from Ghatkopar said the sudden rise in temperature was very evident. “It was extremely uncomfortable on Sunday afternoon due to the heat. We had to switch on the air-conditioner at home and in the car too,” said Shah. 
 
 The maximum temperature till Saturday was 31-33 degrees but saw an eight-degree jump, at least in the case of Santacruz, in a day. Recordings from IMD’s Colaba observatory showed the maximum was 38 degrees, which was 6.7 degrees above normal, while at Santacruz, it was 41 degrees, which was 8.2 degrees above normal.
 
 Explaining the steep rise in maximum temperature, Nitha T, scientist, IMD Mumbai, said, “It is due to strong easterly winds and delayed sea breeze. Over the last few days, the winds have been westerly, which are from the sea to the land, and hence cooler. This changed wind pattern may prevail for two days.”
 
 Weathermen said for a heatwave to be declared, the maximum temperature has to be 4.5 degrees above normal for two continuous days. “If required, it will be issued tomorrow,” said a weather official.
 
 The minimum temperature at Colaba was 21.2 degrees and at Santacruz it was 23.5 degrees. 
 
 The relative humidity at Colaba was 54% and 25% at Santacruz.
 
 The air quality index (AQI) in the city, at 238, continued to remain “poor”. An AQI of 201-300 is considered poor and can be harmful to people with lung and heart sensitivity. The forecast by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) states that air quality may continue to remain in that category on Monday too. 
 
 
