In the latest episode of  ,   and Vihari are busy on their respective calls. This adds fuel to the fire. Karthik’s suspicion about the relationship of Vihari and Deepa strengthens. Mounitha fakes empathy and successfully poisons Karthik's heart.   is shattered. He heads home forgetting his mobile at Mounitha's place.

 Over a phone call, Deepa promises her grandmother that she wouldn't trouble her father ever again. Deepa catches Shravya trying to go through her mobile when she is not around. Deepa changes her mobile lock password trying to save herself some unknown trouble Shravya could create. 
 
 Having realized that Karthik tried to call her, Deepa returns his call. Mounitha doesn't pick Deepa’s calls. Instead, she deletes her calls from Karthik’s mobile call history. 
 
 Meanwhile Mounitha’s uncle tries to counsel her about the rift she is creating between Karthik and Deepa. However, Mounitha justifies that she is just taking advantage of Karthik's foolishness. She expresses her desire to marry Karthik by hook or crook. 
 
 The priest from the temple comes home and finds Deepa fearing to talk to her own mother-in-law. He selects an auspicious muhurath for the birth of Shravya and Adithya's baby in case it is not a natural delivery. 
 
 Karthik returns home drunk which is very shocking to Adithya since it is very unlikely of him. Adithya asks Karthik what got him to drink. Karthik sadly replies that his life has become a joke and that he cannot recognize himself either. As he walks in, Soundarya questions him. She is upset with Karthik’s answers. 
 
 Deepa pesters about the reason behind not taking her previous calls. They suddenly realize that Karthik forgot his phone. As Deepa goes to get him the lime juice he ordered for, Karthik tries to unlock Deepa’s mobile. Much to his bewilderment, Karthik finds that Deepa changed her phone lock password. Karthik now concludes that Deepa has a secret personal life. 
 
 Karthik throws away the juice brought by Deepa. Watching this, Soundarya displays her frustration over Deepa. Soundarya strongly demands for Karthik’s consent for second marriage. Karthik finally gives a nod. Deepa is shattered. Soundarya throws a challenge of bringing her new daughter-in-law in just four days. She shares this with Anand Rao and Adithya. They refuse to believe it. Shravya prods Soundarya to kick Deepa out of the house.
 
 Shravya informs her mother and grandmother that Deepa shall come back home soon. On Shravya’s instruction, both of them agree to not reveal this to Murali Krishna (Deepa’s father). But leaving them in utter shock, Murali Krishna overhears this conversation. Raging with anger, Murali Krishna pledges to go to Karthik’s home and fetch Deepa justice. While Bhagyalakshmi tries to prevent him from stepping out, Murali Krishna resorts to blackmailing by threatening to injure himself. 
 
