Shimla: The opposition in Himachal is criticizing the new   2018-19 approved by the BJP government for going for lottery system instead of auction of liquor vends. The policy got the cabinet meeting recently has sought to change the system to “curb the fall in the revenue”.

 While the Congress is questioning the decision, BJP is countering by saying that under previous regime income from liquor sale had decreased, especially with the formation of Himachal Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited (HPBL). The government has claimed that allotment of liquor vends through lottery would rein in liquor mafia.
 
 In the cabinet meeting held on February 26, new policy was approved that according to government aims to balance the aspirations of citizens, consumers, manufactures, suppliers, bottlers, wholesalers, retailers and the government. A major emphasis was given on streamlining the supply of liquor from manufacturers to the wholesalers and to the retailers.
 
 Opposing the cabinet decision, Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri had alleged that the government was favouring liquor mafia and should rethink its decision.
 
 Industries minister Bikram Singh and forest minister Gobind Thakur said that decision would not only ensure transparent and growth-oriented excise policy but also would ensure getting rid of problems created by decisions taken during previous Congress regime.
 
 They said that in 2016 previous regime auctioned the liquor vends resulting into decrease in income and huge loss in the revenue. The ministers alleged that HPBL was formed during previous the Congress regime to benefit select liquor traders of neighbouring state. They said that before June 2016, state had around 166 wholesale traders and through hundreds of youth were getting employment through them. But to benefit select few, they said, but the government formed HPBL on July 1, 2016, and started distributing liquor through three depots only.
 
 BJP government is claiming that new policy shall help the state earn revenue of Rs 1,552.88 crore approximately for 2018-19, an addition of Rs 271.33 crore over the estimated revenue for the year 2017-18 with overall growth of 21.17%.
 
 
