While the Collectrate at Pathanamthitta serves as the nerve centre of district administration, its walls serve as a veritable gallery of street art that showcases the pilgrim capital’s lush greenery, rich heritage, thick forests and traditional art forms. 

 The line art, caricatures and acrylic paintings also drive home the need to preserve nature. Ask people on the purpose of these beautiful artworks and they say it is a part of the Plastic Free   campaign which comes under the Mission Green programme. Besides inspiring the denizens of the place to a green way of life, it also aims at educating the pilgrims to have a sustainable pilgrimage.   from Thrissur who is a regular at Sabarimala tells us, “I have always felt conserving nature around Sabarimala is the need of the hour. We never bother much on how we are spoiling our environment by throwing plastic and other waste while going to the shrine. Nature is our God as well, so I felt the city is doing a great job.”
 
 According to Saji MT, junior superintendent attached to the green mission, the campaign has made a good impression on the people. “The wall paintings are a testimony to this. It was done voluntarily by a bunch of animation students from the district. They came to us with this suggestion and we were happy to implement it. Instead of ads and billboards, our walls speak about the green mission,” he says.
 
 The paintings depict padayani kolams and wildlife in Periyar Tiger Reserve among other things. Around 30 artists and 50 volunteers were involved in the project, says Ajith Anilkumar, one of the artists. “The walls were a mess and it took us two days just to clean them. We did a lot of research on Pathanamthitta and its various aspects,” he adds.
 
 Sheby Thomas, who coordinated the entire event, says that once the plan was ready, it only took them a week to execute it. “It was a pleasant surprise to see even the local people joining in. Artist Prashanth Kumar is the main talent behind the paintings,” he adds.
 The other projects under the plastic free campaign include distributing cloth bags to the pilgrims and educating them as well as children and villagers on the need to keep their life free of plastic.
 
