KOLKATA: Increase CCTV camera surveillance and enhance police vigilance at Posta, urged   Bazar Merchants’ Association at the wholesale hub, where a businessman was robbed on Saturday. Not waiting for the authorities to take measures, many businessmen in the area have decided to hire private security guards for their establishments, indicating how deeply the robbery has dented the safety perception of the business class in the area. 

 A gang of robbers looted cash of over Rs 14 lakh from the Posta office of a Siliguribased trader after holding his employee at gunpoint.  , the businessman on  , has been living in fear ever since. “We have requested the police to nab the culprits at the earliest to restore traders’ trust. The police have assured us of solving the case soon,” said  , general secretary of Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association. 
 
  
  
 “We have asked the police to install more CCTV cameras in the hub and increase cop presence here, which might deter criminals.” Posta, an extension of Burrabazar which is known to be the country’s biggest wholesale hub, has more than 300 markets and around 1 lakh traders dealing in garments, foodgrain, fruit, spices, ghee, dry fruit, onions and potatoes. Most businessmen operating out of Burrabazar and Posta deal in crores but maintain a low profile, but it is difficult to circumvent the local gangs who have their own intelligence network to find out business volumes to zero in on their targets. In fact, crime in Burrabazar is as profitable as business ventures here. 
 
 In the ’80s and ’90s, allegation of extortions, abduction of businessmen and shoot-outs for area domination were an everyday affair in Burrabazar. But the past six to eight years have seen a sudden decline in the number of complaints from the trading hub. Veterans in the marketplace claimed the crime rate dropped in the bustling wholesale market only after they allegedly paid local criminals to buy their safety to conduct business peacefully. 
 
 Some also claimed the trade hub’s real importance lay in the fact that it had been a source of funds for political parties and kickbacks for leaders. “It is not a secret in Burrabazar that businessmen pay local criminals to buy their safety. They also pay donations for local political functions so they can conduct their business peacefully,” said a trader, who has had his business in   market in Burrabazar for over 40 years.
