CHANDIGARH: A day after Mount Carmel school allegedly threatened to expel students as their parents protested the fee hike, Priyank Kanoongo, member, RTE and Education, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Thursday said the school can face strict action under section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act. He said this while responding to the news published in TOI on Thursday. 

 TOI had reported that Mount Carmel school had threatened to expel 7 students because "their parents protested the fee hike." He shared that   has already sent a letter in this regard to all states and  's, recently.
 
 The letter was received by the UT education department on Thursday and a copy is with TOI. In this letter sent by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to UT education Department, it is clearly stated that no school can subject a student to any kind of harassment for non-payment of fees. The letter has incidentally come at a time when parents have already complaint about Mount Carmel School for expelling students.
 
 Sent by Priyank, the letter states that "The commission has been receiving numerous complaints from all over the country where children are being harassed by the schools. This is a gross violation of section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of Children) Act, 2015 of which the NCPCR is the monitoring authority." 
 
 "Students should not even know if the fee is deposited or not," Priyank told TOI. "It is gross violation of Juvenile Justice Act and a school can be punished under section 75 which talks about punishment for cruelty to children." Elaborating further he shared that school if found guilty of harassing students by expelling them then they authorities may have to face penalty in terms of imprisonment up to five years or fine amounting to Rs 5 lakh or both. 
 
 The complaint has been made to CCPCR and they will be inquiring into the matter, he said.
 
 The letter has brought hope for parents of school.  , president   parents Association said, "This letter has come as a hope for us as it talks about strict action against the schools as they are always subjecting children to harassment." 
 
 The school principal Iona Veleric Brendish could not be contacted over phone and did not respond to messages. However sources from the school said that the decision was taken by the board after which the message was sent to seven parents stating that their wards would not be allowed to continue in the school henceforth. 
 
 TOI had reported on Thursday that the principal accepted seven students were being expelled. 
 
