In the latest episode of  ,   tells   that it is his last day at work. He asks the latter to give him money by the end of the day. Jetha asks him to get done with the work first. Bagga begins to organize everything and finishes in no time. 

 Jetha then goes along with him to   to settle the payment. While Bagga bids farewell to everyone, Bawri enters, much to the former's disbelief. He asks Bawri how come she is there. She informs him that seth ji (Jetha) had called her and invited her to the shop. She further adds that he has arranged for a candle-light dinner for them and paid for the cab.
 
 This makes Bagga happy. He thanks Jetha for everything. Jetha also gives them Rs 1500 for completing 1500 days of togetherness. The two of them leave excited to spend the day together. Nattu Kaka thinks Jetha is in a good mood and he should ask for a hike. Jetha, however, doesn't let him say anything.
 
 At Abdul's shop, Gokuldham men are seen enjoying themselves with a soda. Jetha joins them and relates Bagga's story to them. They all praise him for helping two lovers have a good time. They begin to tell their love stories to each other.
 
  
  
 Iyer tells them how he used to spend a lot of time with Babita. They used to go to the beach, movie and everywhere else together. Jetha thinks Iyer is so lucky to have Babita in his life. Hathi Bhai also tells them he used to go with Komal to try different restaurants. 
 
 Popatlal begins to tell them his sob story. While they make fun of him, he gets upset. Mehta tells them he used to go for long walks with Anjali as her motive was to remain fit.
 
 Jetha tells them he would go to Ahmedadbad after Daya and he got enaged. They would eat a lot of Gujarati dishes. He then tells everyone that he will retire for the day as he is tired. He goes back and finds Babuji waiting for him. He asks Jetha why he got late Jetha tells him he stopped by to meet his friends at Abdul's shop. 
 
 Babuji asks Jetha to call Daya and inquire when she is returning. He tells them he will talk to her the next day as he is too tired. Jetha gets a call from Bagga at night. The latter is thankful to him. Jetha tells him he could have said that tomorrow as well. Babuji asks Jetha why Bagga had called. Jetha tells him the entire story.
 
 Bagga and Bawri are seen romancing each other at the end of the episode. Keep watching this space for more updates on Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah. 
 
