Vijayawada: While chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu is focusing on beautifying three major irrigation canals to attract tourists, the civic body is turning a blind eye to the release of city’s sewage   into the canals. Waste-water and stormwater, from drains maintained by Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, ends up in the canals.

 Western delta of Prakasam Barrage, which consists of three major canals — Ryvus, Bandar, and Eluru — is crucial as it provides water for more than 2 lakh acres. These canals are the main source of   water for Eluru, Machilipatnam, Vuyyuru, Gudivada, Kaikaluru towns in Krishna and West Godavari districts. Around 30 lakh residents in these towns are supplied drinking water from these canals by local bodies.
 
 The apathy of the   and irrigation departments is not helping the cause. The VMC is working on beautification of the canal bunds after directions from the state government. However, it is least bothered about sewage water from drains polluting the drinking in these canals at some 53 locations in the city. 
 
 Kolanukonda Sivaji, president of Krishna Delta Parirakshana Samithi, said: “Three canals passing through the city, which are considered as a lifeline for agriculture in Krishna delta, are the worst hit. The VMC is releasing the sewage from main drains into these canals without any treatment. Crops are getting polluted with this.” 
 
 He said, “Hazardous industrial wastes from Jawahar Autonagar is dumped into the Ryvus canal at Enikepadu, which is posing threat to the denizens of Gudivada and Kaikaluru, who use the water for drinking.” 
 
 In Machilipatnam, denizens are angry about the rampant pollution of Bandar canal. “The Machilipatnam municipality is supplying water drawn from Bandar canal, which is getting polluted in Vijayawada. Diarrhoea and typhoid cases are commonplace, and even then the officials keep ignoring our demands,” Vissamsetty Ramakrishna, a resident of Machavaram.
 
 CPI city secretary Donepudi Shankar, said, “Canals in the city have become unofficial dumping yards. Street vendors and builders in the city are at liberty to dump garbage into these canals. The VMC, which is publicising the Swachh Vijayawada campaign, is ignoring the serious pollution of these irrigation canals. Citizens use bridges on these canals to dump garbage. The VMC, which started fencing works of the canals, should complete them soon.” 
 
 Officials of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation said that they are seriously working on this issue, and are heading to start on-site wastewater treatment plant (OWTP) to control water pollution. 
 
 The engineering wing, with the directions from VMC commissioner J Nivas, is clearing tonnes of plastic wastes and garbage piled at Eluru Lakulu centre near Vijayawada Junction Railway station. Nivas said: “We have focused on controlling canal pollution in the city, and we are soon heading to call tenders for OWTP’s at various locations in the city. We will be able to control canal pollution with this.” 
 
 
