BHUBANESWAR: Publication of plus two results for 2018 likely to get delayed this year as only 50% teachers have participated in the evaluation process of answer sheets so far. The   (CHSE) has warned teachers, who are not joining evaluation duty, of strict disciplinary action if they will not join the duty by Sunday. The results of science stream get published in 3rd week of May every year.

 
 "Of the total assigned teacher around 50% teachers have joined the evaluation work. There is a need for more examiners to join in order to publish the results in time," said chairman of CHSE, Amarendra Patnaik.
 
 CHSE has also asked valuation zone supervisors to file FIRs against the teachers who refused joining valuation work and those who obstruct valuation work as per the provisions of Odisha Conduct of Examination Act, 1988, Patnaik said.
 
 As many as 5800 teachers have been appointed for evaluation of answer copies in the first phase. Of whom only 50% have joined and evaluated around 5000 less number of copies compared to last year.
 
 Patnaik said, they also have a plan B for timely evaluation of the answer sheets, if the teachers will not join by Sunday. "Supervisors have also been asked to appoint examiners from among the eligible teachers of higher secondary and degree colleges and model colleges, who have not been appointed as examiners. We are quite confident of publishing the results on time," he added.
 
 However, the likely delay in publication of plus-two results has pressed the panic button among students. "Plus-two mark is required for selection in all premier universities and national institutes of higher education. If the result will be published late we may miss the chance of applying or taking admission in good colleges," said  , a plus two student.
 
 Parents also expressed concern over the likely delay in the results. "Government must not play with the career of lakhs of students. It is the matter of their future and we urge both the government and teachers to cooperate each other considering the future of the students," said  , a parent.
 
 Meanwhile the agitating block grant teachers decided to continue their strike and said they will not join evaluation duty unless government fulfils their demands. "Our main demand is to withdraw the affidavit clause in which the government has asked the teachers no to go to court against it. We have also been requesting the government to give grant-in-aid to all categories of teachers," said  , leader of the agitating teachers.
 
 As many as 3.65 lakh students have appeared the plus-two examination in three streams including science, arts and congress this years. There will be around 25 lakh copies to be evaluated.
 
 
