KOLKATA: When a young Abinta Kabir, settled in Florida, cancelled her Europe tour and instead chose to visit Kolkata with her family, she took back with her two vivid memories: the image of the Firpo Market that her grandfather Malzur Murshed (82) once frequented as a student of   between 1943 and 1947, and a bullock cart ride she took at Raichak. 

 Abinta had promised to visit the city again, once she managed to set up her own NGO. But she never came back. Abinta was one of the 23 who lost their lives in the   attack at Dhaka’s   in July 2016. She was just 19.
 
 One and a half years after Abinta’s life was snuffed out, her family is back in Kolkata, the city she so loved, trying to relive her dream through the  , which supports young girls in Bangladesh. 
 
 “We aim to show the world that she was a sensitive girl who had empathy for anyone she found suffering,” said Nilu Murshed (70), her grandmother. “She stood for humanity — beyond religious, economic and geographic boundaries.”
 
 The foundation now plans to support girls from Bengal who are financially deprived and those with physical disabilities. The family, through the foundation, also plans to open schools on the lines of the one they have opened in Bangladesh. Among its stated goals will be to support the ecological balance of the area, along with relief during natural calamities. The specifics on which the foundation will work here are being given final touches, with active support from the Bangladesh High Commission.
 
 On Friday, at the book fair, the family will launch a book they have collated for the past two years — after scanning reams of Abinta’s school and college assignments, her musings saved on her laptop and memories collected from friends, relatives and peers spread across Bangladesh and the US. “‘The Memoirs of Abinta Kabir’ is not just a book. It is a collection of her thoughts penned by her,” said her aunt Lubna Ahmed (52). 
 
 It was Abinta’s own words that led to the creation of the foundation. “I believe that I do have a responsibility to the greater community because I am part of a community where more than half the people are suffering from poverty and hunger. I am acutely sensitive to the tremendous hardships faced by ordinary people... most problems have fairly complex solutions and require concerted planning, widespread education, class action and substantial funding,” she had written. 
 
 The family says Kolkata was a “natural” choice to launch her book and the foundation. “Her grandfather spent his childhood here. One of her closest friends who unfortunately lost her life in the same terror attack — Tarishi Jain — was also an Indian. But, above all, the socio-economic condition here is similar to that of Bangladesh, and helping girls here was always on our agenda,” said Nilu. She says Abinta insisted on educating women, who, she felt, were the fulcrum of the family. “Due to my mother, my incredible role model, I value trust, determination, gratitude and open-mindedness... the purpose in my life is to become successful and hardworking... but at the same time care for those around me and appreciate the fortunate life I live,” reads another of her musings her family later collected.
 
 Almost every family member and friend has an anecdote to share to show how much Abinta practised what she preached. Nilu recalled the time Abinta told her that she was taking a stray dog home as she “could not bear the pain it felt after being hit by a car”.
 
 Her granddad Malzur spoke of the time Abinta forced him to stop haggling with a roadside hawker and pay much more for some books, as the “man was poor and needed clothes”. The same Abinta, while she was a sophomore at Emory University’s Oxford College, refused to accept her scholarship since “her family can afford to educate her”, she said.
 
 The family says the more the foundation spreads its work, the more the world might remember Abinta. “She was the fulcrum of our family. She had always expressed her desire to adopt when she turned 21. She would have been so on February 27 this year. My daughter Ruba Ahmed plans to fulfil her wish. We are not concerned about the child’s caste or nationality. We will train her to become our very own Abinta,” Nilu said.
 
