GURUGRAM: The   administrator has returned 20 files of occupation certification, with direction to estate officer to send the same only after physical inspection of the sites. The estate office had forwarded the   ( ) files to   for an approval.

 Huda was recently in controversy over irregularities in granting OCs. During investigation, it was found that OCs were granted to incomplete buildings with forged photographs. In some cases, buildings constructed in violation of   were also granted OCs. Six Huda officials, including the personal secretary to the administrator, were booked for corruption in February.
 
 As per rule, junior engineers of Huda inspect the sites and prepare a report which is checked by sub-divisional officers. If everything is found in accordance with the norms, the file is forwarded to the estate officer and subsequently to the administrator for approval.
 
 “To ensure compliance, the administrator has now directed the estate officers to make personal inspection of the sites before giving approval,” said a senior Huda official. “With this, the estate officers will also be made accountable to the enforcement of the rules in granting OCs,” he added.
 
 In October 2017, Huda had blacklisted three architects for forging and submitting wrong information while applying for OCs. It was found that the architects had submitted morphed photographs of the sites showing them complete in all respect.
 
 People having plots in Huda sectors have to take OCs from the urban development authority only after completing construction. Getting OC is mandatory to get services like water, sewerage and power connection. 
 
 In January 2017, Huda made it mandatory for all kinds of plots — residential, commercial and institutional — to complete construction of minimum of 50% of ground coverage and get OC. In case of failure to get an OC in stipulated time, Huda automatically starts charging penalty as extension fee.
 
 In most cases, people submit forged photographs to get OCs by greasing the palms of Huda officials.
 
 
