KOLKATA: Suman Ghosh, whose   documentary has run into trouble with the  , claimed that   chairman Prasoon Joshi had told him after a hearing on Thursday that the Nobel laureate could use words like “cow”, “Hindu” and “Hindutva” in the film.

 Ghosh had an “oral hearing” with the CBFC chairman in Mumbai on Thursday for his documentary on Sen, titled ‘The Argumentative Indian’. He described the hearing as a “pleasant anti-climax” and a “victory for freedom of expression”. TOI tried to get in touch with Joshi but he chose not to respond.
 
 CBFC insiders, however, did not rule out chances of the director getting a “show-cause notice” and being asked to make one “modification”, regarding a reference to “Gujarat”. The word features in a lecture that Sen delivered at  . 
 
 He has been filmed saying: “Why democracy works so well is that the government is not free to have its own stupidities and, in case of Gujarat its own criminalities, without the opposition being howled down and booted out.”
 
 “There is a chance that he will be asked to delete this reference to Gujarat if he wants a U/A certificate for his documentary,” a CBFC insider told TOI. Ghosh said he did not have any idea about the content of the show-cause notice and would take a call on his next course of action only after he got the notice. CBFC CEO   did not comment on the likely contents of the show-cause notice. “An official show-cause is yet to be issued,” he said.
 
 But Ghosh said he was happy with his meeting with Joshi in Mumbai. “It was an unexpectedly pleasurable meeting that went very smooth. The chairman said he loved my documentary and cleared it without any cut. We talked a lot about films in general and poetry,” Ghosh said.
 
 From talking about economics to Sen’s cancer to expressing his desire to have an extended adda in Mumbai, Joshi seemed to have clicked all the right boxes to make Ghosh happy. “During our 20-minute discussion, the chairman even told me that my cinematographer, Barun Mukherjee, had composed the tune for the ‘Hamara Bajaj’ jingle,” Ghosh said.
 
 But the informal discussion on advertisement and cinema barely matched what had happened during the oral hearing of ‘The Argumentative Indian’ at the Kolkata CBFC office last year. Ghosh was told about six cuts then and, subsequently, received a show-cause notice, which said that it had violated several guidelines.
 
 The six cuts recommended that nine words (“Gujarat”, “in India”, “Hindu”, “cow”, “used”, “these days” and “Hindutva”) be muted; Harvard professor, Presidency University mentor group chairman and   MP Sugata Bose speaks the words “in India” and the rest of the words are spoken by Sen, a Presidencian like Bose.
 
 “India being a democracy but a country where opposition voice, like that of Sen’s, can’t be expressed at all is a conundrum to me. I was always sure any sensible person who watched the documentary would find that the words are unobjectionable. I can now start plans to release my documentary some time in February-March,” Ghosh said.
 
 Ghosh described the Kolkata CBFC’s recommendations as “weird” and added that it was “ridiculous” to expect him to beep Sen’s personal views in a documentary on the Nobel laureate. “The chairman also told me that he learnt ‘so much’ from the documentary, including the fact that Amartya-da had cancer. He said: ‘pardon the language, it is just a technical term. A show-cause notice will be sent across’,” Ghosh said.
 
 
