BENGALURU: Even before UP chief minister   Adityanath touches down in the state on a whirlwind tour of 34 rallies and roadshows,   is gearing up for a noholds-barred attack on BJP’s star campaigner in a bid to hold the saffron party at bay.

 Adityanath has been visiting the state for the past five months and has managed to gain traction, especially in the communally sensitive coastal region and the Vokkaliga heartland. So far, his speeches have revolved around what he calls the deteriorating law and order situation in Karnataka.
 
 Sources in Congress said instructions have been given to all leaders to counter   in Old Mysuru and the coastal districts by highlighting the turmoil and tragedies that have rocked   (UP) after he became CM. “After Prime Minister   and   national president Amit Shah, Adityanath comes next in the list of BJP’s crowd-pullers. We will go after him,” a Congress leader said.
 
 Adityanath will resume his campaign on May 3 by covering four districts – Sirsi, Hassan, Tiptur and Chikkamagaluru – on one day. He will address 34 rallies and roadshows in six days.
 
 The first salvo was fired against Adityanath by home minister R Ramalinga Reddy on Friday. “What is Adityanath going to preach in Karnataka when his home state itself is in a shambles? BJP leaders in UP are going to jail on rape charges and it is an irony that Adityanath is coming to a peaceful Karnataka to talk about crime,” he said. “Maybe, Adityanath is coming here to explain how he tried to shield the rape accused (in Unnao case).”
 
 CM Siddaramaiah too has questioned Adityanath’s credentials. “What has he done in UP? He has failed badly in the first year of his administration and BJP even tasted defeat in his own Gorakhpur Lok Sabha constituency in the recent bypolls. What will he do here in Karnataka,” Siddaramaiah asked.
 
 Sources in BJP said Congress was wary of Adityanath’s connect to the mutts in the state. “He is a guru of the Nath sect which has considerable following in the state’s Vokkaliga-dominated areas. This apart, his firebrand speeches motivate BJP’s grassroots cadres and hardcore Hindutva forces. He is one of those capable of lifting BJP’s boat in Karnataka and hence, Congress is rattled,” a source said.
 
 “Of course, Adityanath’s words will gain traction for the party,” said BJP national spokesperson and incharge of media relations Sudesh Verma. “Before Adityanath came to power, there was lawlessness in UP and the situation has now changed... Just because he is wearing saffron does not mean he is communal. Adityanath is an able administrator, attacking him on trivial grounds...speaks poorly of the opposition.”
 
 But will Adityanath be a game changer? Political commentator R Poornima said: “Though there may not be great benefits from Adityanath for the party in the assembly polls, he will definitely not have a negative impact. He might help in cementing ties with the thousands of swamijis in the state.”
 
 
