Bengaluru: Many politicians aspiring to contest assembly elections on   and BJP tickets have plunged into campaigning without waiting for an official announcement of their candidature. Some have commenced door-to-door campaigning in their respective constituencies, while others have been using techniques of seasoned politician — collecting voters’ lists and holding meetings of party workers and social organizations, promising to fulfil all their aspirations.

 So far, JD(S) is the only party that has released a list of 126 candidates, of which one has quit and joined the BJP.
 
 Mahesh Nalwad who is aspiring for a Congress ticket to contest against Jagadish Shettar, the senior BJP leader and Hubballi-Dharwad Central MLA, has been campaigning for a month now. Likewise, Anil lad, who is tipped to be the Congress candidate from Ballari City, has been preparing the ground for over two months to take on BJP’s B Sreeramulu, who is likely to be the BJP candidate. In Bengaluru, Katta Subramanya Naidu has been campaigning for the past two months in Shivajinagar, where he is aspiring to contest on a BJP ticket.
 
 “We have done all the groundwork,” said Anjali Nimbalkar, who is aspiring to contest from Khanapur constituency in Belagavi on a Congress ticket. “Booth committees have been put in place, campaign materials have been prepared and ward wise door-to-door canvassing is on. It is only a matter of time for us.”
 
 Debutantes feel they need more time to strike an emotional chord with the voters. “This is the first time I am contesting elections and am completely new to my voters,” said BJP’s probable candidate Lahari Velu, who is aspiring to contest from Chamarajpet or Gandhinagar constituency in Bengaluru. “I have to spend more time with them and convince them about my capabilities. I have already started visiting homes of voters in my ward and am interacting with people without waiting for the official announcement of my candidature.”
 
 Not just fresh faces, even sitting MLAs aspiring for a second term are not leaving anything to chance. “I have begun door-to-door campaigning and am holding street-corner meetings in my ward,” said, C N Ashwathnarayana Gowda, Malleshwaram MLA.
 
 JD(S) leader N H Konareddy, said, “There are just 40 days left for the election. We have to cover such a huge area and meet so many people in the constituency. So, without wasting any time, I have started campaigning in full swing in my area in Navalgund.”
 
 While grassroots workers in Congress and BJP welcome candidates taking up early campaigning, they say early birds do not always catch the worm. The two parties are expected to finalize candidates by April 15 and then commence campaigning.
 
 
