JAIPUR: Infrastructure and private housing projects in the state worth approximately Rs 10,000 crore would continue to remain stalled for nearly one-and-half months more after   did not provide relief to the state government. 

 The ban has not only impacted the private housing sector but also delayed the deadline of several of state government’s ambitious projects.This situation is expected to be grimmer due to interrupted supply of sand (bajri) for minimum of two months.
 
 Uptight over the situation to complete projects on stipulated time after coming in the   (Regulation and Development) Act ambit, the developers have already approached tothe urban development and housing (UDH) minister  . However, continuous delay is affecting the project cost. 
 
 “Bajri is most essential requirement for construction. In absence of availability, construction of projects are on hold. Though we have apprised the UDH minister about the situation and demanded time relaxation, our project cost is increasing due to delay,” said Shaleen Singh, a private developer. 
 
 Other than developers, unavailability of bajri for construction is also posing serious problems for thousands of labourers, workers and consumers. Some developers added that nearly 5 lakh labourers, including migrant labourers depend on construction and allied industries. “There is no demand for labourers coming from villages for the past two months,” said Ratan Singh, a small businessman associated with construction industry.
 
 The dramatic drop in construction activities after the ban is also having a cascading effect on other related businesses. “Just after the ban, business has gone down by 85% as there are few buyers for bricks, cement and other material required for construction,” said Abhishek Sharma, associated with the construction business.
 
 The ban has also raised concern for civic body officials as many development projects in the city are being choked and are racing against time to meet the deadline. Currently, projects like   I(B), affordable housing scheme, elevated road (Ambedkar Circle to  ) and rejuvenation of Dravyawati River are underway.
 
 A senior JDA engineer said, “As there is no supply of sand, construction work cannot be taken up further. Approximately 1,200 cubic metres of sand is required every day for infrastructure projects,” he said. 
 
 After the Supreme Court ban, officials are a concerned lot as there is no reliable and tested alternative. 
 
 
