AMRITSAR: While directing the Sikh Sangat to peacefully protest against the controversial movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir,’   Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh on Monday imposed a complete ban on the film.

 The Jathedar said in wake of unending controversies over movies made on Sikh religion or showing a Sikh character he would soon announce formation of a Sikh Censor Board, which would include representatives from the SGPC, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), Sikh institutes, sects, Sant Samaj and filmmakers.
 
 “Anyone making a movie on Sikhs would have to get the script approved from the board,” the Jathedar said, adding that Akal Takht would give a go ahead to the movie only after recommendation by the board.
 
 The Jathedar had earlier on January 22, 2015 hailed the efforts of its producer Harinder Singh Sikka for making a film on the life and teachings of Guru Nanak Dev.
 
 The movie is scheduled to release on April 13. “The Akal Takht has imposed a complete ban on ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’ and this movie can’t be released. Sangat should stage a peaceful protest against the movie,” said the Jathedar on Monday, adding that all the communiqué made by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) with respect to the film had been cancelled.
 
 SGPC president   had earlier sought intervention of the Prime Minister for stopping the release of the movie. 
 
 Sikh outfits disrupt traffic seeking ban on movie
 
 Bathinda: Members of Sikh organisations protesting against the release of movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’ disrupted the traffic on the Bathinda-Mansa road outside the district administrative complex on Monday. They wanted to hand over a memorandum to the Bathinda deputy commissioner but were not allowed to go inside after which they sat on the road disrupting the traffic.
 
 The protesters also demanded registration of a case against the director and the producer of the film.   president Gurdeep Singh said, “The film ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’ is against the Sikh tenets and we will not allow it to be released. We wanted to protest against the movie but were not allowed to go inside the   so we disrupted traffic.”
 
 Bathinda unit chief of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) Parminder Singh Balianwali said Sikhs were hurt over the film and it should not be allowed to be released otherwise they would intensify their protest. After nearly 20 minutes into the protest, the police took the protesters to the DAC where they handed over a memorandum to the DC.
 
