NAGPUR: The inter-state ATM cutter gang was busted by Chhindwara police Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday after they netted mastermind   and his close aide   from the city. The gang has confessed to three thefts at ATM outlets within city police limits, apart from two in  .

 The SIT seized gas cutters, oxygen cylinders, two four-wheelers and other material from the gang. The probe found that members were hand-picked by Verma for specific tasks. The expert gas-cutter of the gang, Bhandara-based Ravi Dubey, was skilled enough to break open the ATM machines within 10 minutes without allowing any currency inside to be damaged by the strong flames of the gas cutters.
 
 The gang, remanded to custody of Chhindwada police by a local court in MP for five days, admitted to twice breaking open the same ATM outlet at Dongargaon in the jurisdiction of Hingna police within a short span. In the latest heist in January this year, the burglars had fled with Rs19.73 lakh. They had netted cash Rs10 lakh after breaking open the same outlet in November last year. The gang has also admitted having broken open an ATM at Hudkeshwar.
 
 The gang was busted after it sneaked away with over Rs6.50 lakh after cutting open an ATM at Harrai in Chhindwara. After registration of the offence, the investigation was handed over to a SIT formed by SP, Chhindwara, Gaurav Tiwari. The role of the city police teams, including crime branch, is under the scanner as Chhindwara SIT managed to detect the cases with Nagpur link. The gang’s mastermind, who had formed the team while in Bhandara jail, used Nagpur as his base.
 
 The cyber cell of MP police provided the first clue to Verma’s location in Nagpur, following which he was picked up from Ambe Nagar in Nandanvan, where he had been staying with his family. Following his arrest, the SIT managed to zero down upon Balbudhe. Later, they arrested   and one Dubey from Bela village in Bhandara. Ramesh Thakur, a local history-sheeter of Chhindwada, was nabbed from MP followed by Sewakram Uikey. Verma and Uikey had first met at Bhandara district prison and decided to form the gang.
 
 It is learnt that the tower location of Verma’s cell phone, who had several offences against him, was first linked to the locality of the ATM at Harrai. He was conversing with Balbudhe, who too has several offences registered against him at Mahkhed police station in MP. The SIT had already got wind of the gang’s behind the ATM theft at Harrai. After their arrest, MP police expects to crack cases in Chhattisgarh too.
 
 SP Tiwari said four more members of the gang are yet to be nabbed, and are most probably holed up somewhere in Nagpur. “Once the location of the fugitives is clear, we would seek help of Nagpur police,” he said. “We are in touch with Nagpur rural SP Shailesh Balkawade,” he said.
 
 
