Nagpur: Strumming his electric guitar, veteran musician   charged the atmosphere as excitement of students knew no bounds at Modern School, Koradi Road, on Tuesday. The ace music director from the famous ‘Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy’ (SEL) trio visited the city to inaugurate Torrins Music Academy at the school. 

 It was a dream come true for aspiring singers of the school to perform with Ehsaan on his own compositions. A bunch of young boys and girls joined him for the hit song ‘Kajra re’ as the frenzied crowd cheered lustily. Neeru Kapai, director of the school, too shook a leg as her students rendered the composition skilfully. Ehsaan then wove a magic through his fingers as he played the patent soundtrack of ‘Rock on’ and won hearts. 
 
 Ehsaan believed that Nagpur has great potential to create masters in music industry. Speaking to TOI, he said, “Shankar and I have been coming across talented artistes from this city. In fact, our team’s female lead singer Shrinidhi Ghatate is from Nagpur. I hope that these youngsters get a platform to be heard and an opportunity to polish their skills. Academies like Torrins therefore play an important role in boosting the confidence of children, and grooming them.” 
 
 He asked students to learn music as it is the purest form of connecting with one’s own soul. 
 
 Torrins envisions teaching music in the school to enhance students’ ability under the guidance of qualified and trained teachers. 
 
 During the launch, Kapai said, “Modern School has time and again proved that it focuses on all-round development of students. It is evident through the success stories of Modernites who have made a mark in table tennis, cricket and many other arenas. We have also made the country proud by attempting a world record in music.” 
 
 She said, “We want the kids to discover their inner self, realize their potential and sharpen their expertise by getting them acquainted with different art forms. Torrins is one such initiative where they can learn to play piano, guitar and drums.” 
 
 Principal Anuradha Sardeshpande, director of Jingle Bells and NK Academy Rohan Kapai, director of Torrins Sunil Sundaram, members Subodh Sathe, Arundhati Sathe, principal of NK Academy Aruna Rao and founder of South Point School Deven Dasture were present. 
 
 
