Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Maharashtra government why salary of Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) officials shouldn’t be deducted for not acting against illegal plot allotments, as confirmed by additional chief secretary Navin Kumar panel’s report. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi further directed the NIT chairman to clarify within two weeks Kumar’s observations that violations in plot allotment don’t warrant any action against any NIT officer individually. The stern directives came while hearing Anil Wadpalliwar’s plea based on media reports of 2004, which exposed gross misuse of power, violation of norms, and favouritism in public utility (PU) land allotment by NIT officials. The plots were allegedly distributed to close relatives of the then NIT officials. The media reports were based on Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report, which passed several strictures against NIT’s working at that time. Earlier, amicus curiae pointed out that though Kumar’s report was submitted over a decade back, no action was initiated against any NIT officer till date. Terming the entire enquiry as a ‘damp squib’, he contended that Kumar committee was government’s voluntary step to probe the NIT’s affairs, but it was neither ordered by the court nor constituted under the Commission of Enquiries Act. Pleading on NIT’s behalf, senior counsel Surendra Kumar Mishra argued that violations in allotment came to notice only after Kumar’s report. It recommended investigations into 85 allotments where violations were noticed. Objecting to his contentions, the amicus termed Kumar’s report as a complete ‘eyewash’, as it recommended regularizing irregular allotment of PU land to private organizations. He demanded reinvestigation of the entire affair by an independent person, preferably a Supreme Court or high court judge. “In view of NIT counsel’s specific contention that the alleged violations in plots allotments don’t warrant any action against its officers, we’re granting two weeks to the chairman to file a responsible affidavit explaining the position. This court has still not accepted Kumar’s report,” the judges pointed out. They observed that most of the allotments probed by the panel are prior to 2000, and over 12 years have passed since then. “Much time and public money is being spent on this issue. We, therefore, want to find out whether in such a situation, particular percentage of salary or wage bill of NIT employees could be deducted and utilized to conduct this exercise. The government, as also NIT chairman, should explain their position on next hearing.” Parchure earlier pointed out 28 issues during his arguments that NIT failed to answer. These included allotting land reserved for housing society to former guardian minister Satish Chaturvedi for a hostel, outstanding ground rent to the tune of Rs75.37 lakh from 325 PU land allottees, and loss of Rs36 lakh due to NIT’s wrong investment policy.