The latest episode of   starts with   and   confronting   and Kiran.   apologises for her mistake in front of her entire family and says she was unaware of what is happening with people after they were sent abroad. 

 She further clarifies Ishita-Raman that she was even unaware of Raman's name being used in the company. Meanwhile, Bala walks in and he hits Suraj and even threatens to kill him. Raman tells Bala that he will send Suraj to jail. Suraj clarifies to Raman that he has carried out the fraud in Kiran's name and he cannot be framed for anything at all. Hearing this Raman leaves Suraj with a warning. Bala talks to Kiran and says that he is upset that she did not trust him and did not share her issues with him.
 
 On the other hand, Roshni tries calling Adi and he disconnects the call as he is with his family. Adi calls Roshni and explains her about his family issues and meanwhile, Raman walks out and tells Ishita that he needs to do something. 
 
 Ishita starts following him and notices that he has gone to the Iyers. Raman seeks forgiveness from the Iyer family and tells them that the entire family had to go through a lot. 
 
 Bhalla and Iyer families are happy, but Simmi is irritated as she see all of them happy. Simmi reaches home and sees Santoshi and Mr. Bhalla discussing Kiran. Simmi further tells them that Raman sought forgiveness from Iyers. Meanwhile, Ruhi walks in and supports Simmi and says that Raman was wrong when he apologized. 
 
 Simmi is confused and wonders why is Ruhi supporting her. On the other hand, Roshni is tired of waiting for Adi and as she leaves, Shravan meets her and sees the phone in her hand. 
 
 In the Bhalla house, Adi meets Ruhi and she tells him that Ishita is being blackmailed by Param and Simmi. She further tells Adi that she has started a drama to make Simmi trust her and she even needs his support. 
 
 While Suraj calls someone from the Bhalla family and says that he would continue the same business under some other banner. He tells him that the real culprit is within the Bhalla family and he will easily destroy Raman. 
 
