BENGALURU: Thousands of students took the   (CLAT) 2018 from Bengaluru too. Students opined that the   was comparatively easy than previous years but many have a mixed analysis of each of the sections. 

 Mariam Azeem, one of the law aspirants, said, “Maths was slightly tricky, whereas the English comprehension section was lengthy but excellent. As I paid good attention to the current affairs from October 2017 – March 2018, the General Knowledge section was easy. There were no repeated questions.”
 
 Aditya Krishna, a science student who took the test, said, “Although the pattern and structure of the paper was changed, I found the Legal Aptitude and the Logical Reasoning sections relatively easy when compared to the others. The General Knowledge questions were not as direct as the ones in the practice papers. I found this paper to be easier than the 2015 CLAT paper,” said Aditya.
 
 Shruthi Nair, a student of said, “The test was easy compared to that in the previous two years. Mathematics and General Knowledge were a little difficult than other subjects. However, the General Knowledge questions were much more relevant this year.” Varchasva Gupta also added, “The paper was easier than last year. But the timings were not flexible to answer each of the sections. I am expecting to score around 130 and I hope the cut off is not go very high.”
 
 This year the examination was hostel by the National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kochi. And a record 59,000 plus students had applied to take the test. In Bengaluru, the test was conducted in a few centres. 
 
 Some centres however faced technical glitches which caused delay in the test. Abhigyan Chatterjee, who took the test in e-Merit in RT Nagar said, “It not only mismanaged but the computer system was constantly crashing. My system crashed five times, and I had to relocate every time, causing a 20-minute delay in starting the exam. Fortunately the timer would be paused every time, however, it caused a lot of mental stress and affected the approach to the paper. This problem was faced by several others in the centre as well. Further, the invigilators in the centre weren't well equipped to resolve such problems and as a result, there was a lot of confusion and chaos in the exam hall. The new CLAT software added to our misery since there were technical glitches prevalent throughout the duration of two hours.” 
 
 Shourya Tomar, a student of Vidya Niketan School, said that though the paper was “very easy” the organisation was flawed. While the test was scheduled to begin at 3 pm, due to technical difficulties the students the students were not able to log in and were made to wait until 3:45 pm to begin. To compensate for this delay, all the candidates who appeared for the test at the   were allowed till 5:45 to complete it. He also stated that he found grammatical and logical errors. “There were no repeated questions. Though I expected the Legal Aptitude section to be difficult it was very easy.”
 
 CLAT is the gateway for entrance into 19 premier law universities in the country for undergraduate and post graduate degree programmes. The CLAT score is also taken into consideration for admission in many other top law schools in India. 
 
 The skills that are tested in this test include Legal Aptitude, Logical Reasoning, English, General Knowledge, and Elementary Mathematics. This two-hour admission test is administered by the CLAT Committee and is a Computer Based Standardised Test.
 
 The answer keys for the online examination will be uploaded on the CLAT website (www.clat.ac.in) on May 15, and representations related to the exam, questions or answer keys can be made between May 16 and 18. The amended keys will be available on May 26 and the CLAT results will be declared on May 31. The first list of merit wise seat allocation will be published on June 7.
 
 
