KOCHI: City on Wednesday witnessed multiple   seizure incidents with North police chasing down the drug racketeers, who even caused an accident whiletrying toflee.

 Two members of a racket were caught after their vehicle metwith an accident at South Kalamassery. The arrested were identified as Adith C K (28) of Thaliparambu, and Askar (32) of Thalassery, Kannur. Ganja weighing 2kg was found in their car.
 
 Police signalled the duo to stop the car at   but they sped away with police giving a chase. The car hit a bike at South Kalamassery and the two were caught. The bike rider got injured and he is out of danger, said police. The accused were bookedunder relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Section 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. The duo will be producedbefore court, said police.
 
 City shadow police, meanwhile, arrested two persons withover 5kg ganja, which was brought in to the city to besold among tourists.
 
 The arrested are   (52) alias Dada from   and his accomplice Ranjith (38) from Karikkamury. Rameshan was nabbedfrom near Vyttila mobility hub with over 4kg ganja and Ranjith with over 1kg of the contraband from Elamakkara.
 
 The accused were arrested based on an investigation following a tip-off received by the commissioner M P Dinesh about a racket supplying ganja to tourists visiting the city. The police were on the lookout for the accused for two weeks before they landed in custody. The arrest was made by a team led by Shadow SI Faisal.
 
 Officials said that Rameshan usedtobring in thecontraband in bulk from   and Ranjith used to connect him with tour guides. The ganja categorised as Sheelavati, which usedtobesold at Rs4,000 per kg to the tourists faking it as IdukkiGold, said police. Officialssaidthat they are collecting information about home stays and hotels which have association withthe racket.
 
 Excise sleuths arrested Tankapandi(43), a native ofBodimettu in Tamil Nadu, from near the Aluva Railway station on Wednesday morning and seized two kg ganja from his possession. Excise sleuths also arrested two others from Kalady for sale of ganja among college students. The arrested were identified as   (52), a native of Perumbavoor, and Rasakh(37) of Maramballi.
 
 
