MYSURU: Cinema actor and director Prakash   said he was very embarrassed by the Mohammed Nalapad Haris incident and will be cautious and check a person’s background before speaking about him at public meetings.

 At an interaction organized by the   (MDJA) at Press Club here on Monday, Rai said he attended a function last month organized by various organisations at Shantinagar.
 
 “As I had adopted a few villages in Talakad and Chitradurga, MLA Haris’ son extended a Rs 2-lakh donation at the function. I said such youths are an inspiration to society. But I realized his character only after hearing about the assault. I immediately returned the money.”
 
 Rai said a few leaders from the ruling party are instigating communal hatred among citizens. “I cannot leave my country in the hands of leaders who speak vulgar language against women and religion. I demanded action against them from PM Modi who is yet to respond,” Rai said. He also expressed his displeasure against Modi’s comment in Meghalaya where he said the NDA government helped Christian missionaries taken hostage in West Asia. “Modi should have said the government had saved Indians instead of Christians,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Rai said he was disturbed that after the killing of journalist Gauri Lankesh, Modi’s followers had celebrated. “When a college student from Dakshina Kannada questioned   president Amit Shah on a sensitive issue, college authorities suspended him. When I raise questions, BJP leaders say my mother is a Christian and I shouldn’t be in this country. They say I’m an agent of the   or the Communist party,” he said.
 
 He has a campaign on social media to create awareness among citizens about their right to ask questions and demand answers. “I won’t enter politics but remain a citizen who asks questions about injustice. The Modi government is trying to stifle public voices and people feel threatened,” he said.
 
 With regard to the Mahadayi and Cauvery water disputes, Rai said drought has become vote-bank politics for politicians. People should not fall prey to such tricks but protect rivers before they go dry.
 
 Rai said after he started raising his voice against injustice, his family is worried for his safety and prays for him. My friends and relatives advise me to stop speaking against Modi and BJP. But I’ll continue to speak the truth and such threats cannot stifle my right to question, he said.
 
 
