PUNE: Lonavla, Goa, Nashik, Rajasthan and Agra top the list of romantic getaways this Valentine’s Day.

 Mehboob Shaikh, treasurer, Travel Agents Association of India, Pune, and director,  , recently received a request from a family to arrange a visit to Taj Mahal, a sublime shrine of eternal love, on February 14. “We booked a tour for them. We mostly have married couples and families travelling to places like Goa, Kerala, Rajasthan and   of Kutch in   to celebrate V-Day, despite it being a weekday,” said Shaikh.
 
 Manheer Singh Sethi, co-founder, Travkart, a holiday smart product specialising in customized fixed departures, said people in Maharashtra prefer Nashik or Lonavla this V-Day. “Among international destinations, Thailand, Maldives, Singapore and Mauritius are high in demand. Demand for resorts and staycations from Puneites has increased with weekend getaways bringing 100% occupancy for resorts. Travel   from Pune during normal days has been growing at 15%. However, the Valentine’s Day has witnessed an increase of about 21%,” said Sethi.
 
 Sources from Travelyaari, a bus ticketing platform, told TOI that couples prefer a quick vacation over a quick drive around Valentine’s Day. “While eating out and resort stay options still remain open for the last minute, advance booking trends reflect a surge in bus bookings. The bookings began right from the Republic Day weekend, with the maximum number of V-Day bookings received from Pune,” a source company said.
 
 Amit Taneja, chief revenue officer at Cleartrip, said that with around one-third of hotel bookings made 60 days in advance, users have planned for Valentine’s Day much ahead of time. “About 41% bookings are for 4 and 5-star hotels. We have also seen a 27% higher year-on-year bookings for this time of the year. Short haul destinations like Dubai, Bangkok, Denpasar, Colombo, Singapore and Phuket are in demand among foreign destinations. Goa, Jaipur, Port Blair, and Guwahati are popular domestic hotspots,” he said.
 
 
