Kolkata:   Cars’ second-generation compact sedan Amaze is all revved up to cruise past its elder cousin City, the mid-size sedan in the portfolio that has been Honda’s no.1 selling car in recent years. Amaze had recorded its highest sales in 2013 when the first generation of the vehicle was launched. But that year,   was being phased out for a generational change, leading to the skewed figures. 

 India is the first country where the new Amaze has been launched. It will hereafter be introduced in other South-East Asian markets, including Thailand and Philippines.
 
 “In 2013, we had sold 77,000 units of Amaze. In 2016, the numbers were down to 35,000. Last year, it was lower still as the model was being phased out. We hope to record strong growth and replicate the success of City,” said Honda Cars India senior vice-president & director (marketing & sales) Rajesh Goel.
 
 While 56,000 units of the City was sold in 2017, the Amaze is expected to zoom past quite comfortably in the next 12 months. Built on an all-new platform where the sedan was designed within the stipulated length of four metres. The Honda official insisted the hatchback to replace the Brio had not been designed yet and could end up looking very different than the sedan. 
 
 The platform will, over the next three years, be exploited to churn out HR-V, a compact SUV, said sources. The earlier platform had yielded the Brio hatch, Amaze sedan, Mobilio MUV and BR-V, a seven-seater soft-SUV.
 
 Later this year, Honda plans to launch the diesel variant of CR-V, its full-size SUV and its largest-selling product globally. Though the price of petrol and diesel has narrowed considerably in India, the absence of a diesel   has stymied its growth. In 2017, only 330 units of CR-V were sold. 
 
 “The introduction of diesel engine should lead to high double-digit or even triple-digit growth. We hope to significantly gain marketshare,” said Goel.
 
 Also on the cards is the introduction of Civic, the sedan positioned between City and Accord. Discontinued in 2013 as the market was considered to be shrinking, Honda has had to reintroduce the new generation of Civic to fix the gap in its portfolio and provide competition to the likes of Toyota Altis, Skoda Octavia and Hyundai Elantra. 
 
 
