

 MOHALI: The   police seem to have found a way out to keep crime rate under check: just don't register FIRs. 
 
 Two recent incidents have come to light in which cops have not been registering FIRs. In the first case, even after four days, police are yet to register a case of theft at a flat in a Zirakpur-based housing society, where miscreants fled with cash and gold ornaments worth around Rs 21 lakh. The theft had occurred in Chandigarh Enclave, Zirakpur, on Saturday night. On March 31, miscreants had broken into a house in another housing society. 
 
 According to  , the flat owner, said "Thieves broke into our flat and stole Rs 21 lakh in cash and jewellery. Next day, we informed the Zirakpur police station but even they are yet to register an FIR." The cops also directed Gupta to bring CCTV footage of the theft.
 
 Gupta said, "Two cops had arrived on the spot on Sunday night. They just asked us to bring the CCTV footage and contact numbers of security guards to the police station the next morning," said Gupta, who had given the CCTV footage to the cops. "I have visited Zirakpur police station more than 10 times after the incident, but still no FIR has been lodged," said Gupta.
 
 In the second case, Ghansham Chauhan, who lives in Mona Greens 2 housing society, situated on Gazipur Road, Zirakpur, had complained to the police on April 1 about an attempted break-in in his flat. However, police have not registered any case.
 
 "I was sleeping in my room and woke up to some noise near the main door. The sound was like someone is trying to break the lock with an instrument. We all woke up and whosoever was trying to enter fled. It looked like someone tried to enter the house by breaking the lock. I contacted Mohali police and cops arrived at the spot but no FIR was lodged," said Chauhan.
 
 "I guess an attempted break-in is not a crime for Mohali police," said Chauhan.
 
 According to  , president, Chandigarh Enclave Society, "This is not the first example. Around seven months back, thieves had struck in a housing society in Zirakpur by breaking into seven flats after breaking locks. In another incident, miscreants had taken away cash and gold jewellery worth around Rs 4 lakh. In both cases, we were going to the police station regularly for one month. But no FIR was lodged. After this they did not know about the FIR status in the two cases."
 
 Zirakpur station house officer   said, "I have knowledge about the two cases and would check their status. 
 
 
