The episode starts off with a light hearted romantic moment between the leads. Later, we see Veer asks a lady to cut off Shivaay's neck. We shift to the next scene where Veer is in the kitchen and Shivaay enters. Shweta goes and hugs him in fear. Shivaay asks if everything is okay. Veer behaves weirdly and says everything is fine and offers him kheer. Veer says that he thought Shivaay would have left for Mumbai. Shivaay says no and adds that he has come to return his depost. Veer replies that it was his duty and in fact he should actually thank Anika for saving his life.

 Shivaay goes and sees Anika sitting there selecting ring designs for Bhavya. She is very happy for Rudra and Bhavya's nuptials. Shivaay is taken aback, thinking they are taking such a big decision without their elders. He once again says that a family can fall apart in a minute and it takes a lot of time to maintain it.Anika reassures him that they will always be a family and adds that even if the Sagai ceremony takes place in their house, the wedding will only be held at the Oberoi Mansion.
 Anika asks him whether he went and thanked Veer. He tells her what happened when he was there. She reassures him that Veer and Monali are Shweta's real parents and they are bringing her up well.No need to worry.
 
 Everybody gathers in the room to discuss the engagement. Shivaay tells them that marriage is not a joke and Shivaay wants to see if Rudra is responsible enough. Rudra replies how can he prove this before he actually gets married. Shivaay and Om suggest that they play their roles. It is then decided that Shivaay will play Rudra and Anika will play Bhavya.
 
 In the role-playing activity, Anika is seen as ACP Bhavya and Rudra appears with long hair, dressed up as Om.
 
 The doorbell rings and Shivaay, dressed up as Rudy opens the door to see Lily, the pizza delivery girl. She gets confused seeing two people at the door, the real Shivaay and Om playing Shivaay's part. The bill is settled and the door closes thereby spoiling her plans. But Lily vouches that she will make sure Shivaay is killed before the day ends.
 
 Later, Shivaay is on the balcony and is visibly disturbed. Anika follows, to call him for the engagement. Shivaay breaks down and says that it is wrong of them to keep the elders out of such an event.
 
 
  
  
 
 
