NEW DELHI: In an unusual case of a husband accusing his estranged wife of conning him and other men, a   has ordered filing of an FIR against the woman after noting that the matter needed a “thorough” and “custodial” interrogation.

 For metropolitan magistrate Neha Gupta Singh, the accused seemed to have married at least four men to extort money from them. The observation was made on the basis of case documents filed on record by the complainant.“Issue notice to SHO concerned to register FIR in the present matter,” she ordered.
 
 The husband alleged that the woman — as part of her modus operandi — had also duped other men before him. Relying on medical records, he showed that one of the woman’s husbands was lodged in a mental asylum. His counsel, Prashant Manchanda, also sought a direction to the police to file previous court records, marriage certificates and photographs of the accused before the magistrate court.
 
 The man has accused her of running a racket wherein she marries, extorts men and eventually deserts them without any legal separation. Therefore, the plea asked for lodging of a case against her under charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, extortion and polyandry.
 
 Their marriage, facilitated by the family, in November 2011 started to crumble after 2014 following the birth of their son. The woman, the man alleged, “manufactured” bitterness and fought unreasonably and had “unnecessary” arguments with him. The husband also claimed that he was threatened with a cruelty case if he did not pay her Rs 10 lakh. “Behaviour of the accused was completely unfathomable for the applicant and his family members.” 
 
 Manchanda argued that his client stumbled upon a similar case, where the woman had tried to extort money from that man. His family informed the complainant that the woman’s previous husband had remained in jail for two years after she had filed a case against him.
 
 Manchanda, who is also representing the other victim, said this man was the woman’s first husband, who lost his psychological balance owing to the harassment. The assessment to show if the other husband is fit enough to stand trial and defend himself is underway at  .
 
 The lawyer said the woman had married the other victim in 2006 and reached a settlement that she would withdraw the dowry harassment case against him in 2009. But she reopened it after seven years.
 
 The present complainant claimed before the court that the woman had married two other men. “This bogus marriage racket run by the accused and her family members has its tentacles spread across Delhi-NCR. During investigation, it will further unearth new victims of the accused woman,” the plea recommended.
 
 
