CHENNAI: A section of   workers affiliated to  , BMS and few other trade unions have decided to go on strike from February 16 as the management has not finalized the wage agreement which is due from January 2016. These unions have not accepted the government’s offer of Rs 2500 to regular employees and Rs 1,250 to retired employees as interim relief from October, 2017 and want the government to finalise the wage agreement and implement the same. 

 “Management and unions have agreed to the 2.57% hike in wages but the government is not announcing it officially. On December 23, 2017 we announced to go on strike but postponed it after an assurance by TNEB finance director that the final agreement will be signed on or before February 12. But a few days back power minister   announced interim relief thereby indicating that the agreement will not be announced officially,” said TNEB CITU chief G S Rajendran. 
 
 He said the agreement has been pending since October last year. “The management gave a copy of the wage agreement on October 21, 2017 but government is dilly-dallying the announcement,” alleged Rajendran. The CITU chief claimed that employees of unions which are not participating in the strike are supporting their cause and work will definitely be affected. 
 
 TNEB management told TOI the strike will not affect the daily working of the three corporations but at the same time in some areas there will be shortage of workers in attending to power-related problems. “The delay in signing of a formal agreement is due to the unions and management not agreeing on the work load of each worker. In TNEB it is the work load which decides wages,” said a senior TNEB official. 
 
 On January 31, state power minister P Thangamani announced that interim relief will be provided to 90,000 regular employees and 95,000 retired employees. He claimed that all trade unions representing employees of TNEB, Tangedco and   have agreed to the interim relief and CITU did not participate in the meeting convened by the government. 
 
 CITU on the other hand alleged that there was no invite from either the government or management to participate in the meeting to decide on interim relief. 
 
 The senior official said the final wage agreement between management and unions will take at least 45 days. “The main issue is work load and the unions want the management to fill the vacancies and also give a higher wage for the present employees. Talks are going on this issue,” he said. 
 
 While TNEB will be spending Rs 136 crore towards provision of interim relief, on the whole, the additional burden for the power company on implementing the wage agreement will be around Rs 1,500 crore annually. 
 
 eom 
 
 
