Ludhiana: Continuing its relentless efforts in creating awareness about starchable compostable bio-degradable carry bags to replace the harmful plastic variety, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Tuesday launched the bags in the presence of plastic manufactures and traders. Member of parliament Ravneet Bittu was present on the occasion.

 Conducting a meeting with representatives of various associations of plastic manufacturers and traders in Circuit House, PPCB’s chief environmental engineer (CEE) Pradeep Gupta gave a detailed presentation on   and its benefits, appealing for a shift to the environment-friendly bags. He said in the trials, the bags were also found to be durable.
 
 He added that five companies were manufacturing such bags in India at present, the raw material for which was being imported, as these bags were being made of corn starch, potato starch, and cane starch. The official also informed that an estimated 130 tonnes of plastic carry bags were being used in Ludhiana daily, and 225 tonnes in the entire state. On the revelation by PPCB officials that there was a 10-12% consumption of compostable bags in Punjab, MP Bittu called it an ‘appreciable change’, and lauded the role of the Punjab government and PPCB.
 
 Addressing the media, Bittu said: “With the intensive awareness drive being carried out by PPCB throughout the state, the day will come soon when plastic bags will completely disappear. The supply and use of compostable bags cannot be controlled, as there is a huge demand.” He advised plastic carrybag manufacturers to shift to making compostable carry bags by using starch derived from maize and potatoes. The MP added that the same machines that manufacture plastic carry bags could be used to manufacture the compostable variety, with some minor changes.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh told mediapersons that MC was regularly issuing challans against the use of polythene carry bags. Later, mayor Balkar Sandhu also joined the meeting and assured full support in creating an awareness drive among people about compostable carry bags. 
 
 
