NAGPUR: An improved fitness level and never say die attitude helped   reach final but she could not cross the last hurdle against   in the summit clash of the   World Tour Super 500 badminton tournament at   on Sunday.

 
 After knocking out higher-ranked opponents including second seed PV Sindhu and fourth seed Ratchanok Intanon in the earlier rounds in straight games, Saina failed to rise to the occasion and succumbed to top seed.
 
 The world No. 1 Tai   shattered the hopes of Saina with a clinical 21-9, 21-13 win in 27 minutes. The unseeded Saina’s bid to capture first title in the last twelve months was cut short by in-form Tai, who registered seventh successive victory against the 27-year-old Indian. Tai has now improved her head-to-head record 9-5 and looking unstoppable at the moment.
 
 The 23-year-old Tai was the hot favourite to win the title and she lived up to her reputation to bag yet another major crown. Famous on the circuit for her spectacular agility and deceptive returns, Tai was also benifitted by several unforced errors commited by Saina, who seemed to have not recovered well after some tough matches in the last few days.
 
 It was a one-way traffic for Tai Tzu in the first game. She jumped to a 10-2 lead early on and maintained it throughout the game. When the score was reading 12-7 in favour of Tai, there was a long rally of 43 shots but it ended with Saina hitting out. After that Saina tried her best but she could not stop Tai wrapping up the first game at 9.
 
 In the next game, world No. 12 Saina put up a better show and fought hard for every point. Saina, who is coming back from an ankle injury at Jakarta, tried to slow down the pace of the game but could not handle Tai’s difficult returns and sharp drops.
 
 London Olympics bronze medallist saved a couple of match points but Tai did not make any mistake on the third to clinch the crown.
 
 Saina was pleased to play her first final in a year but admitted she could have done better.
 
 “I played finals after one year gap. I would like to thank Gopi Sir and the team for the support. I need to work even harder. Happy to be on the podium but have to learn from this match and be ready for the next tournament which is India open in Delhi next week,” said Saina.
 
