Ludhiana: High drama was witnessed during a demolition drive in Krishna Nagar, Ghumar Mandi when a team of MC officials visited the area to stop illegal construction of shops on Tuesday afternoon. Building inspector of zone D Gurvinder pal Singh Lucky was allegedly manhandled when he asked the owner to stop the construction work. It irked the MC staff who demolished the shops with the help of city police amidst drama and resentment.

 MC building inspector who along with his team had gone to stop the illegal construction of shops was allegedly beaten up by the property owner.
 
 Building inspector Lucky said he had received information that four shops were being constructed illegally in Ghumar Mandi as the property owner had not got the approval for the building plan. Even these shops were being constructed in the residential area which is totally illegal.
 
 “On Tuesday afternoon, I along with my team had gone to demolish illegal shops where the property owner tried to stop us. He first abused me and later he thrashed me. In the melee, my turban also fell on the ground. The entire incident was captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the nearby building,” Lucky said.
 
 The building inspector also alleged that when he called up MC staff and cops for help, the owner went away from the spot and sent his son and wife instead. He said his son who identified himself as advocate Tapleen stood in front of the JCB machine to prevent them from demolishing the shops. As the alleged advocate was not budging, they took the help of cops and he was taken away following which illegal structure was demolished.
 
 On the other hand, Tapleen said the MC staff demolished their shops without giving any prior notice which is against the rules.
 
 Former Congress councillor Sukhchain Kaur also reached the site but she left without exerting any pressure on MC employees.
 
 The MC officials have written to the police to register a case against the owner of illegal property and his son for preventing the government officials from doing their duties.
 
 
