GURUGRAM: An 18-year-old student of a school in   was arrested on Tuesday afternoon for carrying a country-made   to school. 
 
 The youngster had allegedly taken the pistol from his friend, who was also arrested on Wednesday. Police said he had brought the gun to school to show it off to his friends. The boy panicked and ran when the principal ordered a check of school bags to see if students were carrying Holi colours and was chased down by the senior teacher, who police said was in her 50s. 
  
 The boy, who is an orphan, lives with his uncle in Prempuri,  . Nearly 600 kids study in classes nursery to XI in the same school. 
  
 Investigating officer Surender Singh said, “An FIR has been registered and the accused has been booked under Arms Act 25-54-59 (possession of arms). Ashish Sharma, who gave him the gun, has been arrested too.” 
  
 Sharma (21), who hails from Mathura and works in a local restaurant in the housekeeping department, had befriended the youngster. The arrested duo don’t have any prior criminal records. 
  
 The school principal said, “I had directed all teachers to check the students’ bags to see if they were carrying colours as Holi is around the corner. The teachers were doing the same when this kid ran away with a polybag in his hand.” 
  
 She ran after him and stopped him near the school parking. “I took the polybag from him. I thought he was hiding colours. To my shock, I found a gun. I grabbed him and brought him inside the school and asked him to sit in one of the rooms before calling the police.” 
  
 The school principal and teachers were afraid to ask the student why he had got the gun to school. “I know what happened to a school principal in   and it gives me jitters. I didn’t ask him anything. Today, the situation in schools is such that we can’t say anything to a kid. If we raise our voice, various departments come forward in support of the child,” said the principal. 
  
 The student’s class teacher spoke of how nice and courteous he had been for the past one year. “The youngster joined the school a year ago in Class IX. We know that he hails from Sonipat. He has been an average student, scoring 348 marks out of 600 in the final exams last year. He never fought with anyone and never raised his voice in class. I was shocked to know that he came to school with a gun. However, he didn’t attend classes on a regular basis,” said the class teacher. 
  
 Jagdish Badsara, a neighbour in Jharsa, said, “I don’t know where he got the gun from. He liked to play cricket and is an obedient kid. It seems he got into the wrong friend circle.” 
  
 The school said the education department would decide on whether the boy would be allowed to pursue his studies and give his board exams. “Whatever decision the authorities take, the school will abide by. On Tuesday, the boy had just finished his computer practical exams when he was caught with the gun,” said the principal. 
  
 Praveen Malik, SHO, city police station, said, “The two of them have been sent to judicial custody in Bhondsi jail for the next 14 days.” Police said the country-made pistol which the boy carried to school didn’t have any cartridge. 
  
  
