KOCHI: The construction of the waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram will be completed within 18 months, said chief minister   on Monday.

 Speaking after laying the foundation stone for the project at   town hall, the chief minister said that such centralized waste treatment plants are required to address the waste menace in big cities, including Kochi.
 
 “Mounting garbage and its effective disposal have always been a perennial problem in bigger cities including Kochi. To solve the issue, we needed a centralized waste treatment plant and decided to construct one at Brahmapuram. Government is also planning to construct waste-to-energy treatment plants at 8 more cities. We are taking all the adequate steps to ensure that proper waste disposal mechanisms are being placed everywhere to tackle issues in this regard,” he said.
 
 In the first phase, a plant to process the garbage and to produce refuse derived fuel (RDF) would be set up at Brahmapuram. In the second phase, the gasification plant to generate energy from   will be constructed. It is estimated that around 10 MW of electricity can be generated from the 300 – 400 tonne waste processed at the Brahmapuram plant.
 
 Chief Minister said that government will buy electricity generated at the Brahmapuram plant on a fixed price.
 
 The construction of the Rs 295 crore treatment plant in Brahmapuram had been lying in limbo since 2015 due to issues surrounding the land where the plant was to be build. Two months back, Kochi corporation had handed over 20 acres in Brahmapuram to GJ Eco Power Private Limited for starting the construction of the plant.
 
 Chief minister also stressed on the need to preserve and protect our environment. “The practice of dumping waste materials and garbage in public places and water bodies should be stopped. We should hand over an earth which is filled with pure air and water to our future generations. The waste menace is one of the major factors that trigger the outbreak of various diseases and health issues. There should be a collective effort to stop this practice,” the chief minister said.
 
 Chief minister also said that the construction of the plant at Brahmapuram is carried out in such a way that no damage to environment takes place during the whole process.
 
 K T  , minister for local administration said that Palakkad, Malappuram and Pandalam municipalities have expressed their willingness to set up waste-to-energy plants in their places.
 
 Meanwhile, members of Kadambrayar Samrakshana Samithy ( ) said that the treatment plant at Brahmapuram is not financially as well as environmentally viable.
 
