LUCKNOW: Successive state governments in   have turned down the requests of the   ( ) for additional staff. 

 SHRC chairman   had sought two additional staffers from the state government and wrote 10 letters - first to the   government in May, June, July 2016 and January 2017, and then to the Yogi government in March, April, May, August, September, October and December 2017 - to press for his demand. After his last letter, the home department headed by the CM responded with a terse 'no' and a one-line reply, "iska koi auchitya nahi hai" (there is no need of this).
 
 Apart from the chairman, who is a retired high court judge, the commission has two members. 
 
 
 
 
 One of them is Asha Tewari, the sister of BSP Rajya Sabha member Satish Mishra, who has been a member of the commission for the past 10 years. The post of the other member from the judicial side is vacant as the BJP government has not appointed anyone so far.
 
 The commission also does not have afull-time secretary. Mostly, IAS officer Anil Kumar Sagar is given an additional responsibility of the SHRC’s secretary.
 
 At the administrative and research level, more than 75% posts of the commission are lying vacant despite a sudden rise in the number of complaints, owing to a staggering number of police encounters in the past nine months. Not only this, most of the staffers working with the commission have been sent on deputation from defunct PSUs for their adjustment.
 
 Since the investigation into a complaint of human rights violation is a specified job requiring legal terminology and language, the chairman had written to the government for sanctioning two retired officers from the high court for the smooth functioning of the panel. The commission had not sent anyone’s name, just two experienced hands, which even the government could appoint.
 
 Initially, the Akhilesh government sought details of the two posts. The Yogi government also repeated the same procedure, but after the last letter in December 2017, the home department conveyed to the chairman office that there was no need of having two officers from the high court.
 
 
 
