LUDHIANA: The maiden visit of Punjab’s industry minister   to Ludhiana on Thursday could prove to be a challenging one. Dozens of industry associations from Ludhiana and nearby cities have already geared up to meet   and share their problems and grievances with him. It is likely that the industry minister may face the music, as there are a host of long pending issues, especially the government’s promise of power to the industry at Rs 5 per unit, which has still remained unfulfilled. However, the minister’s visit has also started a competition among some business associations to welcome him in a grand way and impress him.

 Speaking to TOI about the main issues which the businessmen would highlight in the meeting, Kulwant Singh, president of Chamber of Industrial and Trading Entrepreneurs (CITE), said: “The issue of electricity tariff is the most important issue, and the one which is affecting every industry, regardless of the nature of its work. Power, which was supposed to be supplied to us at Rs 5 per unit, is still being given at almost double the rate by the   State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), due to which we are suffering badly. We will request the industry minister to resolve this issue without any further delay, as already it has been more than a year.”
 
 According to  , president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA): “The problem of pending VAT refunds worth several crores, high power charges, and harassment of businessmen by some officials of departments related with industry are the ones on which the industry minister needs to take a call. We are also going to raise the issue of the Cycle Valley project, which is in a soup, and no plots have been allotted yet to the industrialists. Although it took almost a year-and-a-half for the government to appoint an industry minister, we are hopeful we will be heard and our problems resolved.”
 
 Knitwear Club chairman   said: “We are going to raise the issue of non-implementation of industrial policy and upgradation of infrastructure of existing focal points and industrial areas. We are also going to complain to the industry minister about notices being sent to businessmen for payment of Mixed Land Use (MLU) charges, even after the abolition of these charges.”
 
 Meanwhile, every business association is seeking time for its representatives to speak during the programme and raise their issues, but given the short duration of the programme, officials of the   (DIC) are in a fix on how to accommodate all the speakers. According to sources, after the meeting with businessmen, the industry minister will also visit factories of some corporate groups located in the city. 
 
 
