It takes a bit of jostling past the wedding shoppers to reach this  , run by a third-generation sweet maker, before you can lay your hands on a delicacy that is slowly disappearing from Old Delhi’s palate.

 A lot of heat, sweat, and patience goes into the making of khurchan, which traces its roots to Western UP, probably Khurja, more famous for its pottery than the milk-based sweet sold at Chandni Chowk’s  .
 
 The shop opens by 7am and, soon, five gas-fired stoves are lit up in a row, with karahis filled with milk kept to boil. A skilled worker handles each karahi, stirring the milk continuously and, from time to time, skimming off the malai from the top to the sides of the vessel with a twig.
 
 “It takes at least two hours and 7kg of milk to make one kilo of khurchan,” says Sunil Kumar Jain, 55, sitting in the shop named after his father.
 The malai is left to cool, with karchis resting on top of discarded autorickshaw tyres. Then begins the layering process; each layer of malai is cushioned with a dusting of sugar and the final layer is topped with kaju and pista.
 
 “My grandfather, hailing from Madhya Pradesh’s Bhind, started making khurchan over a century ago, from a godown near the   along this very lane. He shifted to this shop in the ’60s,” says Jain, who could be the last from his family to make this sweet.
 
 “It is difficult now to get skilled workers who must squat for hours in the heat to make khurchan. Five years ago, we started using Amul Diamond (creamy milk) after facing problems in sourcing buffalo milk,” he says. “I don’t want my son, who is a BTech, to take up my profession.”
 Back in Khurja, around two hours’ drive from Delhi, another third-generation sweet maker is more optimistic. “We make khurchan the traditional way, using coal fire to boil buffalo milk on tawa,” says  , 53, who runs Shiv Misthan Bhandar.
 
 The use of tawa instead of karahi, with lesser quantity of milk, is what makes the Khurja preparation distinct. Once the milk is all evaporated, the leftover malai forms a smooth sheet covering the entire tawa, unlike the ring of malai stuck to the sides of the karahi in Old Delhi.
 
 “God has given us a sweet that does not last beyond a few days, limiting us to Khurja, unlike the Agra petha or Mathura peda,” says Giri. The sweet, sold at Rs 600 a kg in Old Delhi and Rs 400 in Khurja, has a short shelf life and is harder to make in summers when these cramped shops turning into ovens.
 
 This is a dying craft. Soon, another Old Delhi delight may go the Ghantewala way, eventually disappearing among the rows of wedding shops.
 
