Gopalpur (Odisha): With unmanned aerial vehicles and drones, both armed and unarmed, posing a major threat to flights, Central Industrial Security Force personnel have started training at Army Air Defence College and Centre in Gopalpur. 

 The first batch of 20   officers, including commandants from major airports like Kolkata, Delhi and Mumbai, received training in February and further batches are expected soon.
 
 “We keep abreast of the latest technology. Everybody is aware of the potency of armed drones from what has happened in Central Asia and Afghanistan. We devise our own defence tactics depending on the terrain and other factors, though,” said Lt Gen A P Singh, commandant, AAD College and Centre, Gopalpur. “Training does not necessarily imply shooting down intruders but also ways to identify, track and jam signals. These are areas where we train personnel, not only officers from the Army, Navy and IAF but also Central Armed Paramilitary Forces like CISF.” 
 
 According to experts, UAVs and drones are easy to use and can be used for surveillance or other purposes. Drones may also be used for electronic warfare such as jamming signals, a potential hazard for flights operating from a civilian airport. 
 
 “Technically, no airport is meant only for civilian flights. During emergencies or training, all airports may be used by military aircraft. Then, there are airports like Bagdogra and Guwahati that are shared by IAF and civil authorities. IAF flights also land and take off from Kolkata airport during exercises,” an officer said. 
 
 “The enemy may use drones or UAVs at such airports and elsewhere to carry out terror strikes. UAVs and drones need not be armed. They may simply have electronic gear to disrupt communications and signals. They may also be flown into flight paths of aircraft to bring them down. This is where agencies like CISF should know how to react.” 
 
 CAPF personnel posted at borders also need to learn of UAVs and drones sent to collect information. The use of surveillance drones has become common along the borders in this region. Even during the Doklam standoff, India and China made use of such equipment. Even Pakistan has been known to use surveillance drones to check the strength of Indian troops along the Line of Control. India, too, depended heavily on drones for real-time information during the surgical strikes across the LoC. 
 
 “This is just a beginning. As and when the home ministry seeks assistance in training CAPF personnel, we sh-all do so,” Lt Gen Singh said. 
 
 
