PANAJI: As the   (GTDC) takes up the restoration of Goa’s iconic   spring in Quelossim, locals are keener about its rejuvenation rather than just the beautification of its surroundings.

 Not too many years ago, the spring was a preferred spot for picnickers who were tired of the beach. With the limpid water flowing down from openings in overhead rocks, it was like a waterfall in which visitors could enjoy a cool, rejuvenating shower. 
 
 Now, however, the flow of the spring, which many believe had healing qualities, has reduced to a mere trickle due to massive ground water extraction in the industrial area. Hardly visited for bathing, it’s now put to use by workers, who use the water for washing clothes and utensils.
 
 GTDC recently floated a tender for development of its property on the spring’s southern side, with a construction of a 35-room business hotel. “The rejuvenation of Kesarval spring is part of the project,” a source said. Other works include repairing the steps and some other beautification around the site.
 
 But Quelossim villagers are wary about the plan. “If it is only beautification and construction of a hotel, it will hardly help the revival of the spring,” said Lopinho Xavier, a local activist. 
 
 In a letter to GTDC, Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “Due to lack of maintenance, the present state of the spring is pathetic and it has lost its glory.” GTDC thus hoped to restore the spring and draw more tourists to the site, raking in revenue for the state government. A source said that the spring will always be accessible to tourists and the public at large. 
 
 But villagers have suggested a few measures to revitalize the once popular spring. “The bore wells operating in the area should be stopped, as this will help increase the volume of its flow,” Xavier said.
 
 Hector Fernandes, a geologist, said that denudation of the top soil affects the natural monsoon water storage in the lateric strata. The water is usually released slowly till summer. He said that a proper geomorphological study is needed before undertaking any development.
 
 
