NEW DELHI:   has filed a writ petition in the   after receiving a notice from the Delhi assembly privilege committee that directs him to appear before it on Monday. And with that, the fortnight-long standoff between the Delhi government and the bureaucracy has reached a new level. 

 Prakash has done so anticipating ‘breach of privilege’ proceedings against him. And he has submitted to court that the notice “amounts to an illegal and unconstitutional attempt to assail the independent functioning of the bureaucracy, a measure beyond the legislative competence of the assembly,merely as a retributive measure to the petitioner taking recourse of the law after being assaulted”.
 
 Seeking quashing of the notice, Prakash has also submitted that he has been “summoned to appear before the privilege committee for inquiry without being provided any copy of the complaint or opportunity to respond to the same”.
 
 Claiming that the notice has nothing to do with the tussle between the bureaucracy and the political executive, MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj alleged on Sunday that the “CS was trying to divert attention from the Delhi bank fraud involving Rs 100 crore and trying to protect those involved in the scam”. Bharadwaj is a member of the question and reference committee that has proposed the privilege proceedings.
 
 The notice was sent to Prakash on March 1, following his “failure” to appear before the question and reference committee on February 23. Three of the four members of the panel had proposed privilege proceedings against Prakash and two other bureaucrats for skipping the meeting that was two days after the alleged assault on him. 
 
 The committee has been examining an alleged fraud of Rs 100 crore involving sanction of loans by different branches of Nagrik Sehkari Bank Limited, a Delhi government-owned cooperative bank, over two years from 2013 on the basis of “fake documents”. The issue was raised in the assembly in January 2017, and in March that year, speaker Ram Niwas Goel had referred it to the committee. 
 
 Bharadwaj said the writ petition was Prakash’s ploy to divert attention from the “scam”. He also clarified at a presser that the meetings of the committee have nothing to do with the current tussle. “RBI in its audit report of 2013 found a multi-crore bank scam under the Delhi government. The committee wants to know why some senior government officers are not acting against it,” Bharadwaj said. 
 
 The MLA said even before the alleged assault on him, Prakash had appeared before the committee on February 16 and asked for more time as J B Singh and Shurbir Singh, the current and the former registrar of cooperative society respectively, were not present. 
 
 “Granting him time, the committee decided to meet on February 20 but the   didn’t appear. He did not appear even on February 21 even though he attended all other meetings, including one at PMO that day,” Bharadwaj said.
 
 Prakash said in his petition that he had to go to a hospital after the PMO meeting as he wasn’t well. He also said that he had communicated to the committee that he couldn’t attend the February 23 meeting due to ill health. 
 
 
