JAIPUR: Decades after all tigers had disappeared from this forest, Rajasthan’s   Hills National Park (MHNP) near Kota received a big cat on Tuesday after it was relocated from Ranthambore.

 
 The male tiger, RT-91, was released in a 28-hectare enclosure in Darrah range of MHNP at 12.48pm by the state wildlife and forest department. The tiger, popularly known as Mirza, was honeytrapped and tranquillised in Ramgargh Sanctuary (Bundi), close to Ranthambore, by the wildlife department. It was taken safely to MHNP by road. With this, Rajasthan can boast of having tigers in all three of its tiger reserves.
 
 Read also: 
 
 
 After the successful relocation, chief minister Vasundhara Raje commended the efforts of wildlife teams from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve, Mukundara and the village wildlife watchers from Ranthambore. “This shall go down in the annals of conservation as a landmark event where a new habitat is being developed for the national animal.”
 
  
  
 
 “It shall be the responsibility of the people of   region to ensure all-round conservation of the Mukundara ecosystem,” she added.
 
  
  
 
 The state wildlife department, in a press release, said, “Tiger RT-91 had left Ranthambore Tiger Reserve and was living in the peripheral forests near Bundi and was frequenting populated areas. As a result, there was a sense of trepidation among locals and a fear of the tiger falling prey to poachers.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The release said, “In fact, in course of monitoring and surveillance of this animal, evidence of poachers roaming in the area came to light and they were apprehended. Keeping these factors in mind and following detailed deliberations, a decision was taken to translocate RT-91.”
 
  
  
 
 The state’s chief wildlife warden, through an order dated March 30, had laid down guidelines and the protocol for the translocation exercise. Accordingly, the tiger was shifted to the 28-hectare soft enclosure in Darrah Range of MHNP, so that it can be safe and secure.
 
 
 “As per section 11A of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, powers to decide on the translocation of any Schedule 1animal lies with the chief wildlife warden of the state,” the official release said.
 
 
 
 
 The government claimed that the reintroduction of tiger in Mukundara will add to the biological diversity of the protected area, and conservation efforts revolving around tiger will lead to an all-round development of the habitat.
 
 
 “The translocation RT-91 to Mukundara is thus the correct step in the long-term conservation of the species in Rajasthan. RT-91is a prime adult male and could lay the foundation of good breeding stock in this protected area. In order to secure the habitat, an 82 sq km area within the park has been already enclosed. For the time being, RT-91shall be monitored constantly and allowed to acclimatize and no tourism would be allowed,” the press statement said.
 
 
 A forest official said this is the third time in the country when reintroduction of a tiger has taken place in a tiger reserve. Earlier, tiger reintroductions were done in Sariska (Rajasthan) and   ( ).
 
 
 Some wildlife activists, however, said they would move court against the relocation, saying it was carried out without the permission of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The activists alleged that the relocation had violated   norms. “The tiger has been shifted to the new habitat without receiving the final nod from NTCA, which is a statutory body governing all tiger reserves in the country. We would approach the court against this relocation,” said  , a wildlife enthusiast.
 
