CHENNAI: DMK president   may be indisposed due to age-related ailments and largely remained away from public glare for well over a year now. But, that did not stop the enthusiastic DMK party cadres from thronging to his Gopalapuram residence in Chennai to greet him on Sunday as he turned 94.

 On his part, the nonagenarian Dravidian leader too did not disappoint them, when he waved at them after being wheeled out to have a glimpse of the fanfare and beating of drums with which hundreds of his partymen were celebrating his   since morning by dancing and distributing sweets.
 
 His son, political successor and party working president M K   was watching in awe the cadres’ love for their leader, even as a fleeting thought could have passed through his mind – on the enormity of filling his father’s shoes. The scene was the same across the state, with enthusiastic DMK leaders and cadres celebrating his birthday with gusto, as if there was no tomorrow.
 
 It was not just the DMK leaders and cadres who vied with others to greet him. National leaders, cutting across parties, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress president Rahul Gandhi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as well as several regional party leaders joined in to convey their wishes to Karunanidhi, considered to be the tallest regional party leader in the country at present.
 
 “A prolific writer, poet, thinker and orator, Karunanidhi Ji is one of India’s seniormost  . May he be blessed with a long and healthy life,” tweeted Modi in his birthday wishes to Karunanidhi. “I pray for his good health and happiness, always,” said Gandhi in his birthday greetings tweet to Karunanidhi. “Warmest birthday greetings to M Karunanidhi Ji. I pray for your good health and happiness,” tweeted Mamata Banerjee. 
 
 In Tamil Nadu, leaders from various parties, including BJP leader and Union minister of state Pon Radhakrishnan, TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar, DMDK chief Vijayakant and MDMK general secretary Vaiko as well as AIADMK leader and Tamil Nadu fisheries minister D Jayakumar and actor Rajinikanth, were among scores of them who greeted Karunanidhi on his birthday.
 
 Born on June 3, 1924, at Thirukuvalai, now in Nagapattinam district, Karunanidhi has never lost an election. He has been elected to the legislative assembly 13 times since 1957, with the latest victory coming in May 2016, when he was elected from Tiruvarur. While Karunanidhi has not been active since a few months after winning that election, the DMK will be celebrating his birthday throughout this month.
 
 
