Switch on the air conditioners, sip some chilled 'chaanch' and stay indoors – it will help reduce pollution and traffic, and in turn, heat kam generate hogi. Raat ko niklo aur chill karo,” east Delhi fukra   told NCR residents recently during an event in Noida. Speaking to us after the event, the Delhi boy reminisces about playing gully cricket in his   neighbourhood during summer vacations, college days and eating in Noida’s  . 

 
  
  Chubhti jalti garmi!
 
 
 
 Manjot landed in Delhi last week, when the mercury had touched 46 degrees Celsius in some parts of the city. The actor tells us, “After I reached home, I went to splash some water on my face, and the water was boiling. I asked my mother, ‘Itna garam paani kaise aa raha hai? Is it connected to the geyser?’” He adds, “Dilli ki garmiyon mein I mostly prefer staying indoors during daytime, and step out only at night with friends. My favourite summer drinks to stay hydrated are chilled coconut water and Punjabiyaan di shaan, thandi thandi lassi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Reminiscing about his summer vacations, the Preet Vihar resident says, “For me, summer vacations meant doston ke saath kanche khelna, latoo chalana, gully cricket khelna, aur din bhar masti karna.” He adds, “Summer vacations also meant family trips to the hills. While my dad would find solace in lush valleys and hills, my brother and I would complain about not being in more happening and cool places like Goa. I have spent most of my garmi ki chuttiyaan in Dehradun, Mussoorie, Shimla or Manali.”
 Recalling his school days, the actor says, “I did my schooling from Hillwoods Academy in Preet Vihar and I remember I would often reach late to school, especially during winters. Teachers ko pata hota tha that I was doing movies, still they would punish me as the rules were same for all students. There is a highway opposite my school and people would see me from a distance doing sit-ups as a punishment and say, ‘Achha yeh toh wahi actor hai.’ Luckily, sharing videos on social media wasn’t that popular in those days, otherwise mere school ke punishment videos viral ho jaate.” He adds, “I was a very shy child. Even today my classmates tell me, ‘Tu film industry mein kaise chala gaya? Tujhse toh baat bhi nahi hoti.’ I was an introvert, aur jab bhi koi relative ghar aate thay toh mein chup jaata tha just to escape exchanging pleasantries with them.” 
 
 
  
  Manjot Singh at Sector 18, Noida
 
 
 
 The Delhi boy tells us that during college he would often spend time in Noida, shopping, watching movies or binging on street food. “Maine bachpan mein bahut shopping ki hai Noida se. College mein when I had limited pocket money, I would wait for the sale season to start in Noida’s mall, so that I could shop for branded clothes,” the actor says.
 He adds, “Since movie tickets were cheaper in Noida as compared to Delhi, I would frequently go there to watch films. I have watched so many movies there. I would go with my family aur hum sabse pehle mattha tekne Sector 18 wale gurdware jaate thay, and then we would watch the latest release of the week, followed by shopping and eating at Atta Market. My dad is quite fond of watching movies, so we would go to Noida at least once a week.” 
 A self-confessed foodie, Manjot says, “For someone living in east Delhi like me, Noida is like a second home. The first thing that comes to my mind when one talks about Noida is its street food. From golgappas to Maggi, one can find everything in Noida. Kai baar toh main ghar par jhoot bol kar doston ke saath Noida mein Maggi aur paranthe khaane aur chai peene aa jata tha. I love roadside chai, aur Noida mein itne saare IT offices aur media offices hain jinke baahar amazing chai milti thi.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Talking about work, the 'Oye Lucky Lucky Oye' actor says that he wants to change how Sikhs are portrayed in the movies, says, “There is a stereotype attached to how Sikhs with turbans are portrayed in films. Maine bahut se filmmakers ko bolte suna hai ki hum ek Sardar ko turban pehan kar romance karte nahi dikha sakte hain as the audience will not accept it. But filmmakers take a chance with several themes and plots that do not strike the right chord with the audience. Why not give a similar chance to a Sikh character who is doing something apart from comedy? Although this perception has changed slightly over the years. Earlier Balle Balle would play in the backdrop whenever a Sardar would appear on the screen. If you look at my roles so far, I have not done anything trivial or something that portrays Sikhs in the wrong light. My roles have all been about doing situational comedy. In fact, to break this stereotype attached with Sikh characters, I am working on a short film that shows a Sardar going for auditions and trying to convince the filmmaker that he can do diverse roles, not just comedy.”
 
 
  
  Manjot at his locality in Preet Vihar
 
 
 
 Not many know that apart from acting, Manjot has another passion – interior designing. “Acting ka interest mere dad ko hai, aur interior designing ka shauk mom ko. So, I have learnt both the crafts from my parents. I love interiors with minimalistic designs. Back in Mumbai, I have done the interiors for a couple of my friends. I love designing cool and quirky bachelor pads with fun elements.”
 
 
