BETTIAH: A convict who had fled from the Buxar central prison where he was serving a life term was arrested on Thursday in Mumbai. “The Gujarat and Mumbai police have arrested the convict, Prajeet Kumar Singh, from Andheri in Mumbai on leads provided by us,” West Champaran’s outgoing SP Vinay Kumar told newsmen here on Thursday.  Prajeet had been awarded the death sentence for the triple murders he had committed at the Thakur Sadan here on April 18, 1998. After escaping from the Buxar jail in December 2016, he had returned to Bettiah to traumatize the surviving members of the Thakur household in Mirza toli with death threats and extortion demand of Rs 10 lakh. Prakash Thakur (38), who lost his siblings- Deepak (16), Kiran (15) and Pooja (8)- heaved a sigh of relief on hearing of Prajeet’s arrest.  Prajeet, a resident of Indargachi village under Sangrampur police station in East Champaran, though a few years elder, was Prakash’s classmate in Bettiah’s Saraswati Vidya Mandir. They became friends. After Prakash left the hostel to become a dayscholar, Prajeet too came to live in the Takur household as a paying guest. His dues at the rate of Rs 500 per month had run up to Rs 4,000. The family was asking him to clear his dues and to avoid the payment he killed them. Another probable reason why Prajeet killed the family member was on that day, Prakash’s father had gone with a friend to fix a friend’s daughter’s marriage. Negotiations failing, they came back in the afternoon with the Rs 3 lakh cash which they had carried for payment of dowry. Since it was Saturday, the money could not be deposited in the bank. Prajeet saw Prakash’s father putting the money in the almirah. He returned at night to kill and loot the money.  “He made a call even yesterday threatening the family,” the SP said, adding that the Bettiah police were tracking Prajeet’s movements in Gujarat and then Mumbai. The killer was also targeting businessmen in Harsiddhi locality and property dealers in Bettiah. Kumar who relinquished charge as West Champaran SP on Wednesday on his promotion as DIG thus signed off his innings here holding good his promise to nab the dreaded killer. 