SURAT: The   (SMC) is likely to finalize the plan to construct a second weir in   at Rundh–Magdalla, some 10km downstream of the existing Singanpore weir, by May.

 With water scarcity becoming a routine phenomena for Surat, SMC has decided to go ahead with construction of the second weir with 10km water reservoir having storage capacity of up to 20 MCM (million cubic metre) of water.   or a weir downstream of Tapi river has been on SMC’s agenda since past 20 years. However, the project never took off till six months ago. 
 
 The Central Water and Power Research Station, Pune, (CWRPC) was assigned the task of analyzing the effects of floods and backwater after the proposed barrage is built. Along with it, the   (Wepcos) was given the work for the barrage whereas designing was assigned to HCP Design Project Private Ltd.
 
 “The combined studies of all these three agencies would be completed by March end. The study of river position when it is constricted on both sides will also be carried out step by step. This would give us an exact effect of floods caused by 10 lakh cusecs or less of water in the barrage and in Tapi river,” said Bharat Dalal, city engineer, SMC. 
 
 “Once the first study analysis is available we will think of options in terms of land constriction,” he added. 
 
 The 10km reservoir would store about 18 MCM to 20 MCM water which will be a permanent water body along the shores of Surat city. It could also be used in the time of crisis.
 
  (GERI) is likely to make a physical model of the project and then SMC will start seeking financial support either in terms of grant from government or obtain loan. 
 
 According to an estimate, even during bad monsoon when total rain fall doesn’t exceed 40 inches, nearly 70% of the water that flows into the river goes into the sea and is not put to use. 
 
 Rajesh Desai, chairman of the standing committee from BJP in SMC, said, “We are looking at finalization of the project soon. It has become a requirement to have second weir or barrage to form a reservoir to store water.”
 
 
