GURUGRAM: As many as 28 police officers, including several station house officers (SHOs) and  , were transferred on Thursday. According to sources, the   were made to provide better policing in the city.

  Yashwant, who was   of Kherki Daula police station, will take over as SHO Sadar police station. Inspector Vijay Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, has been made section officer-II in the police commissioner’s office. 
 
 Inspector Harinder who was in-charge of the passport section will take charge as SHO Sohna Sadar. Inspector Ram Kumar will head the Sohna city police station. Inspector Mukhesh Kumar, who was SHO Sohna City will be replacing SHO, IMT Manesar police station, inspector Narender Kumar. Kumar will now be SHO Sector 5 police station. Inspector Vivek Kundu, who was SHO Sector 5 police station has been made in-charge of the cyber cell. 
 
 Inspector Krishan Kumar, SHO, city, and inspector Praveen Malik of traffic staff have replaced each other. Inspector Gaurav Phogat, SHO, Sushant Lok police station, will now head DLF-2 police station while inspector Sudip will head Sushant Lok police station. Inspector Poonam Hooda, who was in-charge of the senior citizen cell has been made SHO, women police station, Gurugram, while inspector Kailash Devi, who was SHO of women police station, has been transferred as SHO, DLF-1 police station. Inspector Devender Kumar, SHO, DLF-1 police station, will now take over as SHO Kherki Daula police station. 
 
 Inspector Deepak, who was SHO, Bajghera police station has been transferred as SHO, Sector 50 police station. Inspector Surender Phogat, who was SHO, Sector 50 police station, has been sent to the police lines. Inspector Ajay Kumar, in-charge of crime unit, Farrukhnagar will take over as SHO, Bajghera police station. Sub-inspector Suresh Kumar will take his place. Inspector Raj Bala from Police Lines has been made additional SHO of Sector 29 police station. Probationer sub-inspector Satish Kumar will take charge as in-charge of DLF-2 police chowki, and sub-inspector Jagdev has been made in-charge of Arjun Nagar police chowki. Sub-inspector Suresh will be in-charge of Nimoth police chowki while sub inspector Tejpal will be in-charge of Heli mandi police chowki. 
 
 
