PANCHKULA: Union minister   on Friday praised the Haryana government for its success in implementing the "Beti bachao, beti padhao" scheme, but the situation is grim on ground. 

 The state government led by chief minister   has decided to shut down schools where less than 20 students are enrolled.
 
 The decision may make sense financially, but many girl students will be forced to opt out of schooling due to absence of other schools in close proximity.
 
 A list of 42 schools in Panchkula district, with less than 20 students on their rolls, has been sent to the directorate of school education, Haryana.
 
 On Friday, TOI visited two schools which face imminent closure. 
 
 The Government Primary School of Upper Chowki village of Pinjore block has 17 girls and one boy, studying in classes VI and V, on its rolls. Two teachers have been assigned to teach these students.
 
 The school has been running for over 25 years, but has not managed to attract more than 23 students in a year for long now.
 
 "My daughter Manpreet is studying in Class III. If the school closes, then I will not have any option other than making her sit at home. This is highly disappointing as the government is popularizing slogans for upliftment of girls, but is also shutting down schools," said one of the villagers, Virender.
 
 Most of the villagers, who claimed to be illiterate want the state government to keep the school open. "The school has been running for many years now. We do not even have any proper road connectivity to send our children to other schools outside the village. We can't risk their lives by sending them through dense forest road. The government must look into all the aspects before deciding on closing any schools," said another parent, Kashmir Singh.
 
 The   block's Gumthala village was closed in 2014 due to low enrollment of students. Students from the village are now forced to walk more than 3 km to   Bir village to attend the nearest school. They have to use a makeshift rickety wooden crossing on the Gaggar to reach the school. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Students from the village are now forced to walk more than 3 km to Ghaggar Bir village to attend the nearest school. They have to use a makeshift rickety wooden crossing on the Ghaggar to reach the school. Most of the students miss classes during rains for almost three months as the wooden ‘bridge’ disappears.
 
 Due to lack of roads, Gumthala residents have to either send their kids to school through a forest or by crossing the rickety wooden contraption on the Ghaggar.
 
 “After the school was closed in the village, we have been facing many problems. Most of the students either cross the river or walk through the forest to reach their new school, which is more than 3 km away,” said Suman Devi, a parent.
 
