CHANDIGARH: Nearly three years after a US national was gang-raped in the city, a local court on Monday allowed the Chandigarh Police to record the statement of the rape survivor under Section 164 of CrPC and conduct a test identification parade (TIP) of the accused through video-conferencing.

 The directions came after police moved an application. The court directed to conduct all these proceedings through the US embassy.
 
 On the other hand, the police have already filed a chargesheet against one of the accused, Baldev Kumar, a Ludhiana resident, in the court without the rape survivor’s statement before the magistrate and the test identification parade. The challan was presented under Sections 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her to marriage), 376 (punishment for rape), 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The defence counsel questioned without the statement of the woman, how could the challan be presented, calling it pre-meditated. The second accused in the case was still absconding.
 
 The case dates back to April 2015 when the US national had visited India on a tourist visa. She was scheduled to go to Europe. The woman left the country less than a week after the crime was committed without registering a complaint and reached France. From there, she sent an online complaint to then Chandigarh IGP R P Upadhaya. An investigation was conducted and an FIR registered at the Sector 17 police station in February 2016.
 
 
 
 
 According to the complaint, the woman was standing near the bus stand in Sector 17 when auto drivers surrounded her. In the meantime, a man from   in Haryana, who was sitting in Baldev’s auto, approached her and asked if she had any problem. She told him that she needed a hotel room to spend the night, following which he asked Baldev to get her one. The auto driver took her to several hotels but she failed to get an accommodation. Later, Baldev convinced her to accompany him to his friend’s house in Kharar, where she could stay for the night. Baldev and his friend then allegedly raped the US tourist. They also robbed her of her laptop and a cell phone. Later, they abandoned her.
 
 According to the complaint, she had taken the number of the man from Kurukshetra before going with Baldev. After reaching France, she narrated the incident to him. He approached the Kurukshetra police but the complaint could not be lodged. Following this, the rape survivor sent an email to the UT police.
 
 The police said the registration number of the auto that the rape survivor had mentioned in the complaint was incomplete. She had also stated that there was some mall near the house where she was raped. Police had also recorded the statement of the   resident. Police officials said to avoid arrest, Baldev had switched to driving a truck instead of the auto.
 
