Villupuram: D Balu, the   of a municipal higher secondary school at Villupuram in Tamil Nadu, believes that no act of kindness, no matter how small, goes waste. He does not wield a cane like other teachers do, but uses the strongest weapons on earth —   and compassion — to discipline students and to help them climb the academic ladder.

 The students, including the mischief mongers, arrogant ones, latecomers and slow learners, cannot offer any excuse when the humble headmaster visits their houses and pleads with them with folded hands to concentrate on their academic activities. Sometimes, the headmaster even goes one step further. He drops to his knees with folded hands in front of the students and their parents, and pleads with them (parents) to send their children to school regularly.
 
 A former student of Kamaraj Municipal Higher Secondary School in Villupuram town (studied there in the late 1970s), Balu joined as a commerce (vocational) teacher in the same school in 1984. 
 
 When he was posted as the headmaster at his alma mater two years ago after serving at different schools, his efforts to reach out to the students grew manifold.
 
 “Most of the children attending the school are the first generation students who have either cleared class VIII or class X. They hail from poor families and lack motivation to excel in academic pursuits. Many had discontinued and then resumed studies with great difficulty. Being slow learners, they need tremendous motivation to climb the academic ladder,” Balu said.
 
 Like his predecessors and peers, Balu too was initially harsh on the students criticising them for their failures and lack of interest in  . 
 
 “I realised the usual approach will never ever bear fruit. I noticed the change in the attitude of the students and parents when I changed my approach. I tried to understand the problems concerning the students and their families and started focusing on them by visiting their houses and offering advice,” he said.
 
 The change in approach began when he was serving as the headmaster of Arignar Anna Municipal Higher Secondary School at Chengalpet. A student dropped out of the school after his elder sister passed away. Balu visited the student’s house on the outskirts of the town and pleaded with him and his parents with folded hands to resume studies.
 
  “They were taken aback at my gesture. In a couple of days, the student started attending the school again,” he said.
 
 Balu said he wanted to reach out to hundreds of students in government schools. “I will continue my efforts irrespective of the criticism I receive. There are many dedicated teachers in government schools who overcome all obstacles and focus only on the needs of the students,” he said.
 
 Balu was honoured for his services by Villupuram collector L Subramanian and chief education officer during the Republic Day celebrations this year.
 
 
