THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has issued an order to form a separate department for woman and child development (WCD) by bifurcating the social justice department (SJD), a promise made by   when it assumed power in 2016.

 With a view to ensure equal justice and protection to women from gender discrimination and assaults, as pointed out by chief minister   in his earlier statements, the new department has now been entrusted with the administration of 36 welfare (11 AGrade, 11 B-Grade and 14 CGrade) institutions, which were under SJD. The remaining 29 institutions will remain under SJD.
 
 The government has also constituted both state and district-level transition teams for handing over the welfare institutions and for implementing a proper system for creation of various sections, work allocation and transfer of files. The state-level transition team has the social justice director as its convener, while the district-level teams will be headed by district social justice officers.
 
 The WCD department will handle children’s homes/special homes, aftercare homes, rescue homes, observation homes, Mahila Mandirams, short-stay homes and Balasadanams.
 
 While, the SJ D will continue to look after old-age homes, care homes,  , care home for physically handicapped, homes for children with learning abilities, Pratheeksha Bhavans, homes for persons with locomotor disabilities, daycare centres for elderly and Prathyasha Bhavans.
 
 The administration of these institutions has been divided as per the recommendations of former SJ director  , who conducted a study on the scope of a separate WCD department. Based on the study recommendations, the WCD is now entrusted with administration of acts and rules, implementation of policies and implementation of centrally-sponsored schemes relating to the welfare of woman and child. The SJD will continue to look after the welfare of transgender persons, senior citizens, physically and mentally challenged persons and other marginalised sections.
 
 The government, through an earlier order, had already created required posts at the proposed WCD department, which included that of the director, 14 district officers, one law officer, one administrative officer, one finance officer and supporting staff. Now, as per the latest order, officials have been redeployed to fill the top posts including that of additional director, joint director and assistant director.
 
 The WCD department will now be headquartered at the SJD’s annex building at  , which now deals with integrated child development services (ICDS) activities, while the SJD will have its headquarters at   at   here.
 
 
