GURUGRAM: The Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) directed the government of Haryana on Tuesday to submit a report within 15 days on the action it has taken to safeguard the Aravalis from rising cases of diversion of land for commercial use.

 “An email… addressed to   (state forest department) on conservation/protection of Aravalis and its biosphere is forwarded to you. You are requested to examine the application and take necessary action and send report to this ministry within 15 days,” states a letter (a copy of which is with TOI) sent by inspector general of forests to the principal chief conservator of forests,  . The directions were sent after a group of city-based activists took up the issue of degradation of the Aravalis with the ministry.
 
 According to the environmentalists, the state government has been diverting protected land for many non-forest activities. “Haryana government is hell-bent on destroying the Aravalis forest range... The failure of the Haryana government in protecting this valuable national asset is a reflection of failure of the Indian government,” states the mail sent by the environmentalists to the ministry.
 
 They alleged that the Haryana government made major violations for three projects — it gave 65 acres of Aravalli land to   for shifting   toll plaza, 52 acres of forest land in Faridabad for a luxury residential project and an additional 20 acres of Aravalli land for a waste treatment plant at Bandhwari.
 
 “The Haryana government has diverted the most forest land in the country for non-forest activities between 2014 and 2017 when it already has the least forest cover in India in proportion to its geographical area. Even now, the state is constantly diverting the forest land for private and public non-forest projects,” said  , a city-based environmentalist who is one of the activists raising the issue.
 
 The activists also met Union environment minister Dr Harsh Vardhan raising the need to protect the Aravalis from encroachment on December 28 last year.
 
 
