Nagpur: At a time when the state government is spending crores on forest protection, Bhandara forest division under Nagpur circle seems to be turning a blind eye to illicit teak felling in   forest range, about 100km from here. 
 
 On January 22, acting on a tip off, forest guards raided residence of accused   of Alesur and seized finished teak wood planks used for making furniture, windows and doorframes. The wood was obtained illegally by felling several trees in Chikli beat of Lendezari range. 
  
 The forest staff registered a preliminary offence report (POR) the same day and informed range forest officer (RFO)  . The   had taken the accused’s forest custody for further investigations. Sources said the accused wife had created scenes by threatening to immolate herself when the raid was conducted. 
  
 Suspecting more illicit teak in possession with the accused, on January 24, a joint raid was conducted with additional staff by including mobile squad, police and foresters at Chawre farm and house. During the daylong operation, a minidor-load of more teak wood planks were seized amounting to lakhs. 
  
 Even after a month, Lendezari   did not arrest the accused and had not filed the case in the court due to which Chawre was moving scot-free. It was only when TOI called up deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Vivek Hoshing, on Monday, the accused was produced before Tumsar JMFC on Tuesday. The court granted him one-day forest custody remand ( ). Hoshing said, after day’s custody, the accused was granted bail. “It is true that the case was not filed for a month. Now that the matter is in court, all investigations will be done about the accused and a chargeshet will be filed. We will also probe delay in registering offence and filing the matter in the court by the RFO concerned.” 
  
 Chawre is a habitual offender and in-depth investigations will expose his links with teak smugglers in the region. Madavi did not respond to repeated calls and SMS. 
  
 Earlier, on July 13, 2017, the forest staff had seized teakwood planks from a farm of accused Gopichand Korpe of Ronga in July last but no action was taken and the investigations have been dumped. 
  
 According to the sources, illicit felling of teak is rampant in Lendezari as there is poor level of protection. Most of the forest guards and foresters don’t stay at the headquarters. 
  
 “Taking advantage of the situation teak smugglers are targeting forest-rich Lendezari, which is a corridor to Nagzira and also has tigers. Earlier, in 2012-13, notorious poacher Kuttu Pardhi had removed tigers from Nakadongri and Lendezari forest ranges. A repeat of such incidents cannot be ruled out if protection is not strengthened. Senior forest officers hardly visit these areas,” said forest sources. 
  
  
