AHMEDABAD: While CM  's recent promise to change the city's name to ' ' reinvigorated the controversy, a Muslim organization has taken exception to the use of ' ' instead of 'Ahmedabad' by municipal authorities. The Sunni Awami Forum of Ahmedabad on Wednesday filed a PIL in the   high court, complaining that the   ( ) uses 'Amdavad' to refer to the city, "in blatant disregard to the significant history and heritage of the city". 

 The PIL urged the   to restrain the state government and its agencies from using 'Amdavad', as the city is called colloquially, in official documents. Moreover, it wants the government and AMC to include monuments of Indo-Saracenic architecture as symbols of the city in official documents, letterheads and advertisements in India and abroad.
 
 The PIL argues that Ahmedabad has been named after its founder, Ahmad Shah, and the name is thus of immense historical significance. The Census of India and UNESCO in its 2017 award of World Heritage City status, uses the name "Ahmedabad".
 
 
 
 
 Preferring the name Amdavad over the name Ahmedabad demonstrates sheer disregard on part of the authorities for the 600-year-old heritage and history of the city. It is whimsical, for the word Amdavad has no historical context,” the Sunni Awami Forum’s petition reads.
 
 The petitioner has also taken exception to the government and AMC using the chabutara (bird feeder) as a symbol of the city in official documents and advertisements. The PIL contended that the chabutara is a 19th century phenomenon and using it as a symbol for the city is “blatant disregard to city’s highly significant Indo-Islamic architecture… Apart from the disregard, the usage is also extremely misleading in nature, especially when tourists from all over the world visit Ahmedabad,” the PIL reads.
 
 During a preliminary hearing, a bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi inquired with the petitioner about the procedure to change the name of a city. The bench then posted a further hearing on the matter for after the summer vacation, said Prithu Parimal, the petitioner’s advocate.
 
 
