JALANDHAR: There are reasons for the elaborate security arrangements being made in the state in view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’. Punjab has highest percentage of Dalits than any other state at 31.9% and though they remain politically and socially fragmented, this issue has clearly united them.

 Interestingly, the leaders of different Dalit groups, who are now participating to make bandh a success are also not clear that who first gave it but they acknowledge that it spread through social media. Smaller groups took the lead and then following the groundswell on the issue, bigger groups and political parties also followed the suit.
 
 However, there is no single party or coordination committee to control the affairs, which is also making job of the administration and police comparatively tough. Inquiries from different Dalit leaders and activists reveal that the groups can organize multiple processions in different areas. “The first calls probably emanated from Maharashtra and Delhi and then through social media spread among Dalits and caught the imagination of the people and they started gearing up for participation,” said senior   leader  , who is among the main foot soldiers of the party in the state. “The way word has spread and Dalits have come together on the issue reflects the concern among them and also their capacity to unite even as they have remained politically divided,” he added.
 
 Organization working among two biggest Dalit communities — Ravidassia/Adi-dharmis and Valimiki/Mazahabi, who have strong political competition — and make around one fourth of state population are in the forefront of supporting the bandh. Even their religious leaders have come forwards to support the bandh call.
 
 “I have no hesitation in admitting the politics of different castes among Scheduled Castes has remained fragmented but on this issue they all have united. People are not concerned who gave the call first but the entire Dalit samaaj has adopted the call,” said   (ADS) founder and head Darshan Ratan Raawan, one of the most influential organizations of Valmiki community. He has also spread a 10-point agenda for the bandh. “People are sensing that the union government has tested waters and then ending or squeezing reservation can be the next step,” claims Rawan.
 
 In Phagwara something different has also happened. A few Sikh and Muslims have also extended support to the bandh call by Dalit groups. “Sants of Adi-dharmi community have already expressed support to the bandh and they would also be participating in the protests on Monday,” said Ramesh Chohka of  , a recently formed organization.
 
 
