MUMBAI: An FIR for attempt to murder and deterring public servants from performing their duty has been registered against 15 people identified from closed-circuit television footage for attacking and injuring 12 personnel from   station.

 Another 500 to 1,000 unidentified people have been booked for Wednesday's riots when over 90 vehicles were damaged or torched in Powai. 
 
 "The attempt to murder case has been registered apart from five other FIRs. On Wednesday night, we arrested 25 protestors for the riots and action will be taken soon against those identified," said DCP (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy.
 
 
  
 
 Constable Dinkar Wavhal was one of those injured during rioting and stone pelting at Milind Nagar on Wednesday. He suffered eight stitches near his right eye and his temple. "I was shielding my face with my hands and was shocked to see the stone-pelters included women and teenagers. It was raining stones from at least 100 to 150 people. I blanked out after a stone hit me and I started bleeding," Wavhal told TOI. "It was 3pm when the stone hit me. Deshmukh Sir (inspector Balwant Deshmukh) somehow managed to shield me, pulled me into the police jeep, which too was damaged, and drove it to hospital. I have been given five days' rest."
 
 Constable Sandeep Salvi was patrolling near Powai Garden when he came face to face with stone-pelters. "We remained calm though the mob tried to provoke us. They were pelting stones, and set ablaze our bikes (beat marshal bikes) and damaged police vehicles. I injured my right hand and back when I tried to shield myself from the stones,'' said Salvi. Inspector Deshmukh and others too suffered injuries.
 
 An officer from the Powai police station said all the accused have been identified from CCTV footage. They are mostly from the Milind Nagar locality and will be arrested soon. "Locals who witnessed the Wednesday riots in Powai are pouring into Powai police station with CCTV footage," said the officer.
 
 Two FIRs have been registered with the Sakinaka police station on Wednesday.
 
 
