PANAJI: The state government has decided to allow developmental activities in settlement areas, which were hitherto restricted as the   2021 was kept in abeyance. 

 “The move will fulfill dreams of many to have a roof over their heads as earlier the discrepancy in demarcating settlement areas in   2011 and RP 2021 had shattered it,’’ said town and country planning minister  .
 
  
  
 
 Stating that it was an Easter gift to the people, Sardesai said the issues pertaining to areas omitted in RP 2021, will be addressed by amending the TCP Act in the next session. He said the government had been toying with the idea of rectification of errors in the plan for quite some time.
 
 He said at present permissions for development were granted only for areas which came under settlement/developable zones in both the plans.
 
 “This had caused a lot of hardships to people as they could not use plots even for personal purpose,” he said.
 
 The minister said transparency will be maintained on land use pertaining to commercial and industrial zones as per merit. The taluka-level officers will scrutinise all the necessary requirements and other formalities including the forest and agricultural department.
 
 “Development will not be allowed on those lands which are restricted as per the various laws and rules,’’ he said, adding, “Due to the discrepancies in two plans, confusion and illegalities had been taking place. Now, with the amendment of Section 49 (6) of the Act to prevent sale of land/registration of unauthorized plots, it has been controlled.’’
 
 “Areas such as low-lying paddy fields, water bodies, khazan lands, flood-prone areas, land having slopes more than 25% forest land, including private forest land, landing falling in the buffer zone of wildlife sanctuaries (without the prior permission of the forest land) and no-development zone as per CRZ notification (without prior permission of Goa coastal zone management authority) even if they fall in settlement or developable zone shall be prohibited from development,” Sardesai said. 
 
 
