All theatres in   have cancelled shows of “Danga The Riot” where   is playing BJP ideologue Syama Prasad Mookerjee and   his mother. While director   is blaming it on attempts to sabotage a movie on Mookerjee in Bengal, his booker claims that exhibitors don’t want to risk playing a film with a controversial title.

 The film is set in the background of the call for 'The Direct Action Day' by the Muslim League and the events which followed, namely the riots in Kolkata and Bengal culminating in the partition. Till Thursday evening, Bookmyshow showed that two single screen theatres in Kolkata will be screening the film. But a late in the evening, even that screening became uncertain. Said Bhowmik, “I was promised 103 theatres across Bengal. All the theatre owners have been unofficially threatened. For the fear of theatres being torched, not a single theatre or multiplex in Bengal will be screening my film. I have audio recordings of a booker and a hall owner telling me of the threats they have received. They claimed cops had given instructions to that effect. I have asked them to submit their version to me in writing.”
 
 According to the director, exhibitors from the entire north Bengal belt have suddenly boycotted his film. “The local booker had promised me 26 theatres in north Bengal. From Tuesday, he cancelled everything. What’s worse is that the said booker – R Sharma - isn’t even taking our calls now. It’s shocking that a film with a valid censor certificate can’t get a proper release in Bengal. Gajendra   was in town but he left after being miffed with the hall fiasco. This is perhaps the last film where Supriya Devi acted in. She has played Syama Prasad Mookherjee’s mother – Jogamaya Devi,” Bhowmik said.
 
 When TOI tried to get in touch with Sharma, he said he is in Delhi and is unware of any development regarding the film.  , the booker for Indira cinema, cancelled the screening on Thursday evening. On being asked the reason, Chaudhury said, “We belong to the business community. I don’t want to get into any controversy. I was asked to cancel the screening and I will not screen the film.”
 
 Krishna Daga, who is the main booker for this film, said, “As a president of Eastern India Motion Pictures, I have received no political mandate asking exhibitors to stop screening the film. Considering the sensitivity of the title dealing with riot, exhibitors are unwilling to screen it.”
 
 Bhowmik alleges that Bengal is giving a step-motherly treatment to his film. “While the film isn’t releasing in Bengal, there are 26 theatres releasing it in   and Jharkhand. In Assam, 37 theatres are releasing the film. Even the few theatres in Bengal which took advance from me have agreed to refund it,” the director said.
 
 
