LUDHIANA: Carrying the message of ‘reduce farm expenses, use water and fertilizers judiciously; adopt subsidiary occupations, and enhance agri-profit largely, the   (PAU)   opened to thousands of farmers on Friday here in the university premises.

 Punjab governor VP Singh   was the chief guest, and inaugurated the mela.Viswajeet Khanna, additional chief secretary (Development), Punjab, was the guest of honour; and JM Balamurugan, secretary to Punjab governor, was also present on the auspicious occasion. While addressing the gathering, Badnore said: “I am attending this Kisan Mela for the second time, having been to various agricultural universities of India, but I think PAU is matchless, as it involves farmers’ participation, which is nowhere else in India.”
 
 Lauding Punjab’s farmers for toiling hard to make the country food secure, he said: “What you have done for the country cannot be forgotten. Farm varsities are researchers, and you are producers. You take forward the research done by the universities. Expressing his gratitude to Punjab for providing water to Rajasthan, he stated: “I am also a farmer. Earlier, there was no drop of water in the two districts of Rajasthan — Surajgarh and Ganganagar. But now, the water supplied by Punjab has strengthened these two districts.   are ahead of Rajasthan, and wise enough to take important decisions regarding farming,” he remarked. Citing the example of dry places in Rajasthan which have not received rainfall for the past eight years, he said the adoption of animal husbandry can benefit farmers belonging to dry places.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, PAU vice-chancellor Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon stated that farmers should maintain farm records, focus on profit instead of income, use farm inputs as per recommendation, and do joint marketing and mechanization. Stating that PAU-developed paddy varieties PR121, PR122, PR124, and PR126 have shown excellent results in the field, Dr Dhillon said varieties sown between June 15-25 can save a lot of water. He appealed to farmers to visit the Food Industry Business Incubation Centre at PAU, where they can get their produce processed.
 
 Gadvasu vice-chancellor Dr AS Nanda said: “Earlier, Punjab’s farmers brought in the green revolution, and now, they have paved the way for a milk revolution in the country. India is a leader in milk production with 66 million tonnes of milk being produced by its dairy farmers,” he revealed. On the occasion, the chief guest and the guest of honour were honoured with shawls and mementos by Dr Dhillon.
 
 
