Eery night between January and March, residents of  , a small village on the out skirts of Madurai city, assemble on the precincts of the Thanilingam Perumal Koil temple to witness a unique offering made to the deity - dramas, a tradition that this village has been following for the past 400 odd years.

 Here devotees stage dramas as an offering for the deity to get their wishes fulfilled. Whether it is the wish for a good harvest, a child after years of marriage or the recovery of an ailing relative, devotees pledge to perform a drama before the deity if their prayers get answered.
 
 As  , a villager, said the way of redeeming vows by staging dramas, began in the early 1600s. The village had been hit by a very bad famine, and people were dying. They did not know what to do, and then were informed that their local deity Thanilingam Perumal had to be appeased with something that the deity liked very much - dramas. The villagers had immediately adorned costumes and enacted a drama, and it had rained in the village after several months. Ever since, they have been redeeming their vows by having artists perform on the stage in front of the temple right opposite to the sanctum sanctorum.
 
 Even King  , who had heard of this ritual, had visited the village and lauded the people for their efforts. Earlier, the dramas were staged throughout the night, but they are now restricted to 10 pm. Once the villagers themselves became actors, and later they started employing drama troupes paying the troupes. The price earlier was Rs 50 per day, now ranges between Rs 20,000 to Rs 28,000 per day. The plays performed here are mostly based on the Mahabharata, Ramayana or mythical stories. The script is interspersed with songs and comedy sequences," says  , a resident.
 
 This year dramas have been held for 90 days, starting on  , and every day the residents book the spot on which they want to sit, by spreading a bedsheet or saree and securing it with stones in the morning, and return from work and take their place in front of the stage hours before the play start.
 
 
