KOLKATA: The   is likely to get some new judges by mid-April, a senior official of the Union law and justice ministry said on Monday.

 According to the official, the ministry is awaiting the   recommendations on the seven names nominated by the Calcutta High Court and ratified by the Bengal chief minister and the governor. The official said the apex court recommendations are likely to be made anytime now. A senior lawyer, who is in the know of things, said, “Even the Chief Justice of India is personally aware of the issue. All efforts — we have been told – are being taken to expedite the appointments.”
 
 All the seven nominees are members of the bar.
 
 The Calcutta High Court is facing an unprecedented ceasework by lawyers since February 18 on the issue of appointment of judges. The lawyers’ bodies are likely to meet again on April 2 to decide whether they will end the ongoing agitation or continue with it. At the last meeting on March 19, the three lawyers’ bodies — Calcutta High Court Bar Association, Incorporated Law Society and the Bar Library Club — asked for a specific time frame from the Centre on the issue before withdrawing the strike.
 
 On March 21, acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and his senior colleagues Justice   and Justice Debasish Kar Gupta met the lawyers’ bodies and urged them to withdraw the strike. The senior judges had even expressed their desire to meet a larger group of lawyers to restore normalcy.
 
 The acting Chief Justice’s intervention came on a day when case pendency data published by the HC indicated a dismal picture. The cease-work had started on February 19. In February, it had impacted eight working days (February 19-23; February 26-28). The case disposal rate had fallen sharply in February. According to the HC data, only 3,167 cases were disposed. In January, 5,250 cases were disposed. The cease-work in February alone, the data revealed, has resulted in non-disposal of over 2,000 cases.
 
 Earlier, the Centre had assured a lawyers’ delegation that seven names recommended by the   has already been sent to the Supreme Court Collegium with Intelligence Bureau reports. Five names recommended in December 2017 were with the IB. It also assured that it was processing acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya’s elevation as the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court.
 
