MUMBAI: The number of aspirants across the country taking the Joint Entrance Exam (Main) has seen a slight dip as compared to last year. This year, 11.5 lakh candidates have signed up for the exam as compared to 12 lakh in 2017.

 Interestingly, the number of students opting for a   has soared to 2.25 lakh as compared to 1.8 lakh in 2017. In comparison, the number of those opting for the paper-pen format stands at 9.25 lakh as compared to last year’s 10.2 lakh.
 
 “There has been a steady rise in the number of students opting for a computer-based exam,” said   executive director (JAB) Rajbir Singh, in charge of the JEE Main.
 
  
  
 
 The all-India entrance test conducted by the CBSE will be held on April 8 and the computer-based test will be held on April 15 and 16. The JEE (Main) is the eligibility test for JEE (Advanced) for admissions to 23 IITs and JEE (A) will be held on May 20. This year, the advanced test will only be administered on computer.
 
 Since 2017, the JEE (Main) does not place any weightage on Class XII scores.
 
 For candidates to qualify for admission to the IITs/NITs/IIITs and other centrally funded technical institutes whose admissions are based on the JEE (Advanced)/JEE(Main) ranks, they should have secured at least 75% marks in Class 12, or be in the top 20 percentiles in the Class 12 examination conducted by the respective boards. For SC/ST students, the qualifying marks are 65% in Class 12.
 
 This year, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Nagaland, Odisha and some other institutions have joined the JEE (Main) system. However, respective state authorities will notify their admission criteria. Candidates seeking admission to institutions in these states must fill the JEE (Main), 2018 application form online.
 
 JEE (Main) is the passport for admission to undergraduate engineering programmes to 31 NITs, 23 IITs and 23 CFTIs. Candidates are allowed three attempts for JEE Main 2018. Aadhar card is mandatory for applicants.
 
 JEE Main paper 1 is for admission to B.Tech programmes, while Paper 2 is for admission to B.Arch/B.Planning programmes. JEE Main admit card 2018 will be available tentatively from the second week of March, while results will be declared on April 30.
 
 
