Madurai: A major fire broke out in a three-story textile store in Madurai city gutted clothes worth Rs 3.5 crores. The fire was brought to control after several hours of firefighting by the fire and rescue personnel. The commercial building was found to have been running without the fire certificate and any fire safety. The fire accident took place in the JRK Textile Market, a wholesale store, in Pathu Thoon Sandhu in the small hours of Monday. The proprietor of the shop K Ganesan told media persons that in total, clothes worth Rs 3.5 were gutted. A fire officer said that a security in the locality, who spotted the smoke emanating from the building, alerted the fire and rescue personnel at around 3.40 am. Immediately, six tenders including a quick response vehicle and mini-tender were dispatched from various stations like Town, Tallakulam and Anupanadi. A large number of firemen and five officers were involved in the firefighting. Water required for quelling the fire was supplied through a large number of corporation water tankers. Officials said that the fire had already spread to the ground floor and the first floor when the tenders reached. After eight hours of firefighting, the fire was put out except for the third floor, which was locked with iron shutters. The building lost its stability due to the heat. A fire officer said that there were no fire safety measures like a smoke detector and automatic water sprinkler and six persons were employed in the store. “The commercial establishment was functioning without the fire certificate. The investigation was underway why they have not acquired it,” he added. Another officer said that the location of the shop made it challenging. It is located at the dead end of the Pathu Thoon Sandhu next to the 10th Pillar. As the lane is too narrow for fire tenders, the tenders were stationed in the Mahal Vadampokki street and a lengthy pipe was used to reach the store. Based on a complaint, a case was also registered with local police station and investigation was carried out. Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao visited the spot. 