Kartik.Sood@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh:  , 35, hailing from Hoshiarpur, scripted history when she became the first woman Super Randonneur or long-distance cyclist of Punjab. She achieved the feat by cycling from Delhi to Khanna at a stretch in 2016 in 33.5 hours. The event was conducted by Delhi Randonneur.
 
 But Preeti, who along with her husband Abhishek Kashyap is organising Shivalik Signature, the first   ( ) qualifiers to be held in north India, considers the Manali-Leh stretch she covered the same year as more challenging. 
 
 She took the arduous journey traversing through Khardung-La, the highest motorable road in the world. “The feeling was like out of the world,” says Preeti, adding these are rides of fixed distances that are to be completed within specified time limits. In a game that is dominated by men, Preeti has been able to carve a niche with her zeal and relentless focus.
 
 Elaborating on her achievements, she adds, “I participated in night brevet 200 Brevet des Randonneurs Mondiaux (BRM) which started from Hoshiarpur to Talwara and then back, which I covered in 11.5 hours. Later, I signed up for 300 BRM from Delhi to Karnal and back with Delhi Randonneurs which was covered in 15hours and 13 minutes. Subsequently, I did my 400 BRM from Hoshiarpur to Jammu and back — a very challenging route with rolling climbs in 24hrs in September, 2016.”
 
 But Preeti’s romance with the sport started accidentally. When her husband was injured in 2013, doctors had advised him to cycle to avoid surgery for a serious ligament tear. “We went to Kochi that year and bought cycles to explore the town and thoroughly enjoyed it. Soon, we could cycle 30-40 km a day,” she says. And a tournament in France in 2014 opened a new chapter in her life. “It was in 2014 that I took part in a cycling event in France. Then I got hooked on to it, initially covering 20 km, then 30 km and raising the limit to 100 km. Eventually, it became a passion to cover more than 100 km a day,” she says.
 
 When she returned to Punjab in March 2014, she was shocked to see people despite having quality bikes and cycles, refusing to ride on highways. “There was also a trend of riding during the wee hours, so as to avoid people’s attention. Majority of them were riding with wrong postures and without any helmet, lights or rear blinkers. It was a big challenge for us to apprise them of the importance of all these accessories. I still remember how people used to poke fun at us for sporting helmets while cycling,” she adds.
 
 And she continues, “Moreover, being a woman, it was more challenging as people passed comments. But that was not a distraction as I continued to follow my passion,” 
 
 Talking about her love for cycling, she says, “Though I don't take part in competitive cycling, what really draws me to this game is the test of endurance, nerves and the impetus one gets by surpassing everybody's expectations,” explains Preeti.
 
 It’s true that Preeti’s mother wasn’t quite comfortable with her daughter’s love for cycling. But her husband has played a pivotal role in pushing her to raise the bar. “My mother was sceptical keeping in mind the safety factor for women, which is a burning issue in the country,” she says. But Preeti cherishes the fact that her husband has always stood by her, come what may, which gives her the fillip to face challenges. 
 
 “He has always stood by me and ensured that I am always agile enough to combat the adversities coming my way,” she says.
 
 According to Preeti, the male-female ratio in the sport is skewed. “If we compare the ratio in cycling, it is hardly 2%. When I completed my Super Randonneur, there were men who came forward to complete their SR series with the belief that that they too could achieve what I have,” she adds. Preeti explained that at a time when the sport is not popular among girls, she has set an example emboldening women to take to the sport.
 
 “It was difficult to handle the physical pressure and the mental agility required to carry on, but at the end of the day when you come up trumps, it gives you a different kick,” says Preeti.
 
 Preeti’s love for cycling also finds reflection in her business interests. She has her own brand of cycles. She is also an avid advocate of conducting off-beat adventure sports. “This certainly generates employment in the rural areas that promotes tourism and sports together,” she says.
 
 Looking ahead, Preeti is gearing up to participate in the RAAM qualifiers in a couple of years. “Right now, I am looking for more enthusiasts to popularise the sport in India. As of now, it is my priority even at the expense of my career. But I will surely return and conquer RAAM,” she winds up.
 
 
