NAGPUR: Granting respite to a rape accused, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court quashed and set aside   man’s life term after he informed that he had already taken up responsibility of the survivor and the kid born out of the offence, and they were staying with his wife at his home.

 The court also took into consideration that the 16 years old complainant had consented to physical relationship with the accused, son of her maternal uncle, despite being fully aware of the fact that he was engaged to her cousin sister.
 
 A division bench comprising justices   and Murlidhar Giratkar, however, upheld Pradip Bawane’s conviction under Section 417 of IPC for cheating and awarded six months of imprisonment to him. He was also slapped with a fine of Rs50,000 that would be deposited with the Chandrapur Sessions court registry. It was told to keep the amount for six years and after its maturity, it would be handed over to the survivor for future needs of her child.
 
 On October 25 last year, the trial court convicted   under Sections 376 and 417 of the IPC and sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for life on first count and one year on second count. The HC, however asked the jail authorities to release him as he had already undergone the required term.
 
 The incident dated back to December 2010, when the accused took the complainant to his home for doing household work, as both his sisters were pregnant and were staying with him. One day, when she was alone at home, Bawane allegedly forced himself on her. He also threatened her that he would commit suicide if she revealed anything outside. His misdeeds continued for about three weeks despite warning by the girl that she would conceive. He promised her that he would break his engagement with her cousin sister and marry her.
 
 After she became pregnant, her parents summoned the accused’s family and it was agreed that their marriage would be solemnized at a temple to avoid the social stigma. The accused failed to turn up on the marriage date, forcing the girl to lodge a complaint at  .
 
 Subsequently, a charge sheet was filed and the Chandrapur court found him guilty of rape and cheating, which he challenged in the HC through counsel Rajendra Daga.
 
 The judges observed that though the survivor was claiming forced sexual intercourse, her statement shows that she was in love with the accused. “Whatever sexual encounters took place was with her consent. In view of the Supreme Court’s rulings, sexual intercourse with the survivor’s consent doesn’t amount to rape. The trial court wrongly convicted the accused for offence punishable under Section 376. Though the prosecution failed to prove rape, it proved that the accused cheated the prosecutrix by not performing marriage with her,” the HC said.
 
 
