 
  FC stopped Sporting Clube de Goa’s dominance of Goan   this season – even if it was in a different format – as they triumphed at the   Premier League, organised by Goa Sevens and Ambelim SC, at Ambelim Sports Complex on Saturday.
  
  Having won the Goa Pro League and Goa Police Cup earlier in the season, it seemed Sporting Clube would complete a rare treble this season. They even raced to a 2-0 lead but Salgaocar – who lost their league title to Sporting this season -- fought back to tie the match in the first session itself, then defended resolutely after the change of ends, and pipped their rivals in the tiebreaker.
  
  The tiebreaker could have gone either way but with Salgaocar goalkeeper Jason D’Mello blocking captain Cajetan Fernandes’ first attempt, the former I-League champions always had the upperhand. Salgaocar captain Gilbert Oliveira then converted from the spot and Clemente Joseph faltered for Sporting to leave them on the edge. It was then left for Umesh Harijan to keep his cool and secure the title for Norberto Gonsalves’ side.
  
  This was not the way Sporting Clube wanted this season to end, and that too in front of a crowd of 6,000 cheering supporters. They started the match on the front foot and their early pressure paid dividends as Salgaocar defender Samuel Costa scored an own-goal after Ganesh Thakur sent in a dangerous low cross from the right.
  
  Sporting continued with the same rhythm with highest scorer, Alesh Sawant (six goals) and Marcus Mascarenhas, leading the way. The second goal was imminent and George D'Souza unleashed a powerful right-footer from outside the box that found the top corner of the nets.
  
  It could have been all over for Salgaocar but they were lucky to see a fierce volley from Cajetan Fernandes hit the upright. That encouraged them, and they were back in the game in the 24th minute when Gilbert headed in past goalkeeper Melroy Fernandes after a perfect thrown in from Agnelo Colaco.
  
  Two minutes later, Salgaocar were celebrating again as Agnelo calmly controlled Gilbert's cross and drilled in a grounder.
  
  In the second session, the teams were cautious in their approach, paving the way for penalties where Salgaocar kept their cool.
  
  “The Goa Football Association (GFA) has promoted Goa Sevens although there were many questions raised on our association. Looking at the response, I feel it was a good decision. GFA will continue to support the league next season too,” said GFA president Elvis Gomes.
  
  A minute’s silence was observed before kick off in memory of Sporting Clube’s young player Avrhishto Fernandes who passed away early this year.
  
  Individual awards: Man-of-the-Match: Jason D’Mello (Salgaocar), highest scorer of the tournament: Alesh Sawant (Sporting Clube), best goalkeeper of the tournament: Melroy Fernandes (Sporting Clube), Sevens Star of the tournament: Alesh Sawant.
