AURANGABAD: The senior members of state waqf board on Tuesday asked the government to provide a regular CEO, conduct elections for the remaining three members and pave way for recruitment of staff.

 Currently, the waqf board has around 50 employees at different positions, including drivers and class 4 staff. They look after the affairs of 96,000 acre of land, belonging to the board, spread across the state.
 
 Member of Parliament and waqf board member Husain Dalwai, who was in the city to attend the two-day meeting that began on Tuesday, said it is sad to see that the board office is not in order.
 
 “It doesn’t have enough staff to tackle the property issues. They are helpless when it comes to removing encroachments on land that is being infringed upon by influential people, including politicians and business groups,” he said.
 
 While referring to Monday’s meeting convened by the Central waqf minister Mukhtar Abbas  , Dalwai said, “He (Naqvi) wants to do things for improvement of the affairs of waqf in the country. But I told him to first clear the mess that the state waqf board has fallen into.”
 
 He added that the in-charge CEOs appointed by the government were not interested in convening waqf board meetings.
 
 “There was no regular CEO, no regular chairman, elections were not being conducted deliberately and problems are created for the existing members so that they either quit or fall in the line with the in-charge CEOs,” Dalwai said adding that he will not allow this to happen and raise this issue at different forums.
 
 “It’s time that the government should provide enough funds for recruitment of staff and ensure help to remove encroachment on waqf properties,” he said.
 
 He also pointed out that though the two-day meeting was convened in  , members were not given any agenda. “The meeting was conducted without taking members into confidence. Currently there were seven members in the board,” Dalwai said.
 
 Meanwhile,  , another member from Nagpur, also raised similar concerns. “No agenda was provided despite reminding the staff concerned. The government has made a mess of the waqf board. No meetings were held for entire year. The government officials are not conducting these meetings at the behest of land mafia as well as the big businesses who have been occupying the waqf land without any hindrance,” he said.
 
 Qureshi, who had earlier shot a letter to in-charge CEO S C Tadvi raising many issues including non-providing of agenda, added, “If a board meeting is allowed, the members would naturally raise the encroachment issue. Also, as per the norms, the waqf properties cannot be sold or misappropriated the way it is being done currently.”
 
 Former Waqf board member Syed Jameel from Jalna said as per the norm the state government has to provide a list of 4 names to be appointed as CEO, of which the board members are supposed to discuss and suggest two names.
 
 “Of the two names the government will then choose one name. However, such process was not followed. To keep the waqf issues dangling in the air, the government saw to it that no meetings are conducted and members are retired without tackling any issue,” he said.
 
 Jameel, who retired last month, said that only a few meetings were conducted in the last five years with none in the last one year. Meanwhile, Tadvi could be contacted for his version despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
