PATNA: Chief minister   will inaugurate a three-day state level skill competition – ‘India Skills-Bihar 2018’ – here on April 20. The event, organised by   (BSDM) in partnership with   ( ), will also see governor Satya Pal Malik presenting awards to the winners on April 22. BSDM functions under the state’s labour resources department.

 The winners will quality for a two-tier competition and subsequently get the opportunity to represent the country at the ‘World Skills Competition’ to be held in Kazan, Russia, in 2019.
 
 Participants of India Skills-Bihar 2018 will compete in 27 skills, which include   finesses, such as Madhubani painting, Tikuli art and stone pottery along with newer skills like CNC milling and welding, plastic engineering, fashion technology, culinary skills and mobile robotics. People honed in traditional skills like carpentry, wall and floor tiling or bricklaying will also get an opportunity to exhibit their skill.
 
 “As the competition involves both traditional and advanced skills, people from all background can participate. No education qualification is required for participation,” state labour resources minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said on Friday.
 
 Principal secretary of labour resources department Dipak Kumar Singh said, “People above 22 years of age as on January 1, 2019, can participate in the competition. We had received nearly 2,000 applications for each skill. Six applicants in each of the 27 trades were selected after a two-level screening process. These participants will be given the final project in the competition. The top two participants in each trade or skill will then compete at the regional and national level in order to get a chance to compete in World Skills Competition 2019.”
 
 Singh said the topper in each trade in the state level competition will receive Rs 25,000 as prize money, the second winner will get Rs 11,000 and the rest of the participants Rs 8,000 each. “Those qualifying for regional competition will receive Rs 51,000 and the ones making it to the national competition will get Rs 1 lakh from the state government,” Singh added.
 
 Seventeen of the 27 contests will be organised at Bihar Veterinary College ground, where a panel discussion and skill exhibition will also be organised. “The rest of the competitions will be held at Tool Room Training Centre at Pataliputra Industrial Area, Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology, Hajipur, Institute of Hotel Management, Hajipur, NIFT-Patna and Sita Groups Pvt Ltd, Hajipur,” Singh said.
 
 World Skill Competition, also known as Olympics of skills, is organised by   (WSI) once in two years. Presently there are 71 member countries competing in 52 trades across six sectors. 
 
 
