CHENNAI: A committee would soon be constituted to assess whether Tamil Nadu temples have adequate fire safety measures in place, said state minister for Hindu religious charitable endowments, Sevvoor S  . The minister held a meeting of HR&CE officials in the backdrop of a major fire accident in Madurai   temple last week.

 “The committee will check the presence of shops in all major temples and see if they pose danger to the temples. The shops will be relocated to other areas. The committee will also assess the electrical installations on temple premises and check the strength of wires and distribution lines and make necessary changes,” said the minister.
 
 He denied any major damage to the centuries-old Meenakshi temple. “I visited the temple and took stock of the damage a day after the fire. None of the interior areas of the temple have been affected by the fire and all statues are safe. Fire was controlled within no time and prevented from spreading to other areas inside the temple,” said Ramachandran.
 
 Asked about other fire accidents reported in the state after Meenakshi temple mishap, the minister said fire accidents in   and   were outside the respective temples. He said the department had taken adequate steps to safeguard all temples in the state.
 
 On BJP’s criticism of HR&CE department that it had failed to protect temples, the minister said that in the last 7 years, his department had reclaimed temple land to the extent of 2,687 acres from the custody of various people. “Several acres of agriculture land, building and vacant land belonging to temples have been reclaimed from private individuals across the state. Around 2,653 acres of agriculture land, 620 grounds of non-agriculture land and buildings, all worth Rs 3,300 crore have been reclaimed. I don’t know what the   leaders said, but the department is doing its best,” said the minister.
 
 The minister advised HR&CE officials to avoid Madurai-like mishaps in future. “Temples are treasure house of culture and wealth, and it is the responsibility of HR&CE officials to safeguard them. The officials must immediately assess the electrical installations in all temples and submit a report,” said Ramachandran.
 
 
