In the latest episode of  , Baga (Bageshwar) calls   and they decide to meet at the the compound. Baga is seen waiting for Bawri, who arrives on a cycle. She asks him to sit on it. On their way, he begins to sing songs but the dogs begin to bark. This makes him stop. 

 Baga takes charge from Bawri to ride the bicycle. Meanwhile, Tapu,   and   reach the compound of the society. They feel scared of being caught. When they reach Sakharam (Bhide's scooter), Tapu feels bad for lying to Bhide uncle. 
 
 Goli then mistakenly turns on the scooter, which makes Bhide get up from his sleep. Tapu asks Goli to turn off the scooter, he does so but it takes time. Meanwhile, Bhide goes to check his scooter and is relieved to find it safe. He wonders where the sound came from. 
 
 He then hears Tapu's phone ringing, he calls him out. But the latter doesn't respond. Tapu picks up Baga's call and tells him to wait for them. Bhide turns around to go back to his room but collides with Madhavi. She scolds him for worrying about his scooter, even at night. She take him back to the room.
 
 Tapu, Gogi and Goli come out of their hiding and take the scooter out of the complex. They meet Baga and Bawri and take the scooter a little further off. Bawri and Baga both are unable to decide who will teach the kids how to drive. 
 
 Baga tells them it would be easier for them to learn how to drive as Sakharam has three tyres, which would help them learn how to balance the scooter. Baga starts with the basic, and shows them the scooter, the keys and how to start it on. 
 
 When this makes Gogi, Goli and Tapu impatient, Bawri steps in to self-start the scooter. Then Baga teaches them how to kick-start the scooter and start it slowly. He also advises them to keep the speed in limit.
 
 Bawri then gives them helmets to wear. Tapu is the first to start the scooter, then it is taken by Gogi and Goli. This ends their scooter training for the day. Tapu, Gogi and Goli all thank them as they enjoyed a lot. 
 
