NAGPUR: Amid fears of lack of accuracy owing to technical boycott by field staff, the state forest department on Thursday relaunched the All India Tiger Estimation 2018.

 Earlier, the six-day exercise was conducted from January 20-25, in around 6,000 beats in the state including tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and national parks and tiger bearing territorial forest areas.
 
 However, as the Maharashtra Forest Guards, Foresters Sanghatana had called boycott of use of technical gadgets, the estimation lacked accuracy.
 
 State’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) AK Misra said, “The same exercise will be conducted afresh in at least 60% area with technical gadgets now.” 
 
 Misra said after suggestions from officials and experts that non-use of technical gadgets may lead to errors, a decision was taken to relaunch the estimation. “We also had time. It was not too late,” he added.
 
 However, sources said barring parks under Pench Tiger Reserve, the exercise will be conducted everywhere. Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) officials said fresh estimation has started from Thursday.
 
 “You can say the earlier exercise has turned futile as we will be now use   — Intensive Patrolling and Ecological Status (M-Stripes) software-based monitoring system launched across tiger reserves,” they said.
 
 The decision to relaunch the exercise was taken after foresters union had three round of talks with forest and finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and forest secretary Vikas Kharge in February first week.
 
 Maharashtra Forest Guards, Foresters Sanghatana leader Vijay Meher said the government has assured to take up the demand on wage revision before the  , set up for awarding VII pay panel recommendations.
 
 “Besides, a committee will be set up to study the number of technical duties foresters and forest guards perform and whether these posts can be declared as technical so that wage revision can be effected. After the assurance we withdrew the boycott,” Meher said.
 
 TOI on January 20, had reported quoting   (WII) officials stating that non-use of technical gadgets like GPS and PDA will lack accuracy and there can be errors.
 
 
