On January 31 evening, when many were savouring the visual grandeur of the Super Blood Red moon, over 300 Hyderabadis were seated inside a dark hall at   witnessing a play of lights and shadows of a different kind. It was a choreography titled ‘Hakanai’, a first-of-its-kind concept that blends contemporary dance with digital art installation and music.
Devised by   and Claire B Company, a French theatre company, sometime in 2012, the production which used CGI (Computer Generated Imagery), video projection mapping and sensors to ‘interact’ with the performer on stage, effortlessly blurred the line between real and virtual.
 “The word ‘Hakanai’ in Japanese means something which is fleeting and is very short lived; something like a dream, a fit of rage or a brisk spell of rain. It’s an old Japanese word. The performance is a scenography involving a digital glass box and a performer,” says  , the choreographer of the performance, who first came across the unique production in 2015.
 As described by Barjonet, the choreography took shape inside a translucent glass cube where a direct interaction happened between the digital installations and the performer. As the performer entered the box and ambient music filled the air, the images on the walls started responding to the movements of the performer which were in sync with the music. Be it the performer’s violent whirls or subtle hand movements in line with varied human emotions, the walls and the changing graphics responded to them creating extraordinary visuals that awed everyone in the hall.
 Performer   says, “The Company was looking for a contemporary dancer for the project and held an audition in at   in Bengaluru. Being a contemporary dancer and alumni of the institute, I thought of giving it a try and landed the project.” 
 Priyabrata adds that though unique, as a dancer he didn’t have much problem understanding the whole concept. “Synchronising with the digital platform wasn’t difficult as it’s being programmed in such a way that it responds to your movements. But the rehearsals were tough as the box wasn’t flown into India till the last moment and I had to dance without it. I first performed with the box only on the stage, on the day of our first show in Bengaluru,” he avers. The 40-minute performance had the audience glued to their seats. The exceptional graphics and their ‘conversations’ with Priyabrata’s movements created a splendid visual treat that was acknowledged by a roaring applause. Afterwards, the audience too was invited to enter the box and experience the sensory walls first-hand. 
 
