CHANDIGARH: The UT   have failed to recover 78% of the   stolen in 2017. The latest released   suggest that of the 920 vehicles stolen from Chandigarh, police were able to trace only 207. 

 The arrests of automobile lifters also dropped in 2017, to 136 from 145 in 2016. Maximum vehicles were stolen from residential areas at night. The favorite hunting grounds of the thieves are free parking lots of markets, hospitals, and other private and government institutes. 
 
 Cops said that it had come out in the interrogation of the arrested lifters that most of the gangs involved in stealing four-wheeler are based out of the city, whereas those lifting two-wheeler are from the city itself. Police also maintain that the gangs active in the thefts of two-wheelers comprise youngsters who are drug addicts. They use these vehicles in crimes such as snatching. Those involved in lifting four-wheelers theft are well-trained and well equipped, because the latest cars and trucks come with many advanced safety features.
 
 
  
 
 UT deputy superintendent of police (crime) Pawan Kumar said that the cops had busted some big gangs of vehicle lifters in 2017 and recovered many automobiles from them. The men in khaki have been trying hard to bring down the number of vehicle thefts in the city. The reason why it recovered fewer vehicles is that the lifter had dismantled the automobile and sold their individual parts. In some cases, police recovered the disassembled parts of the vehicles and it was difficult to identify the owners from these. Even the owners couldn’t identify their vehicles from the scrap.
 
 Shrinking parking spaces and resultant parking of cars on roads outside houses is proving to be an opportunity for thieves to make away with car tyres and accessories. Many of the vehicles targeted are new, considering the resale value of the tyres and alloys in the second-hand market. A normal jack and bricks are used to uplift four-wheelers. While the police are carrying out night patrolling, they advise residents to install surveillance cameras and telll housing societies and resident welfare associations to hire watchmen to guard their cars and two-wheelers at night.
 
 
