NAGPUR: Robotic surgery is a recent advancement in the field of surgery with a specific role. Robots give a good three-dimensional vision and the doctors can operate specifically by preserving nerves and important vessels, said noted laparoscopic surgeon Rajesh Singhania on Sunday.

 Dr Singhania was installed as president of Association of   of Nagpur (ASN) at a ceremony held at a city hotel. Bariatric surgeon   was inducted as secretary.
 
 Taking the concept further, Singhania said, “Though the surgery will be conducted by robots, it will be monitored by the surgeon. At present, such surgeries are being done in Mumbai and Pune.” Robotic surgery has an advantage in such operations where surgeons cannot see things through eyes or cannot use hands to perform certain tasks. Though the surgeries will become expensive, it is the price one has to pay for perfection, he added. A robot approximately costs Rs13 crore and is imported from the US and Germany.
 
 “We plan to have a robotic surgery workshop in Nagpur for doctors to make them aware of its advantages,” he said. He also spoke on the growing number of obesity patients and emergence of bariatric surgery as a solution, and added that he would focus on improving the deteriorating relationship between surgeons and patients.
 
 Singhania said events like state-level surgical quiz, CMEs, workshops and social activities will be organized. He said he will interact with fellow colleagues in psychiatry, anaesthesia, gynaecology, radiology and endocrinology so that they can solve problems of patients related to their area of specialization. 
 
 “Useful topics like ethical marketing, patient-doctor relationship and branding will also be the areas of focus,” he said. He offered to lend ETO machines from   to surgeons from Nagpur for sterilization of laparoscopic equipment for six months.
 
 National president of Association of Surgeons of India Dr Dilip Gode was the chief guest at the installation ceremony. Guest of honour Dr   spoke on ‘Three decades of minimally invasive surgery’ while psychiatrist   on ‘Doctor Brain’.
 
 
