CHENNAI: The state transport department is planning to set up a   to monitor all registered taxis and buses involved in public transportation.

 In an attempt to improve passenger safety, the   in January set an April 1 deadline for the installation of   and   or panic buttons in the above-mentioned category of vehicles for registration. 
 
 This deadline was extended for a year as many states including Tamil Nadu did not set up control centres thereby turning the exercise futile. 
 
 There needs to be a control centre to respond to the alarms raised through the panic buttons and track vehicles through GPS, said a ministry official on condition of anonymity. “Without this setup in place, installing such devices would not serve the intended purpose,” he added.
 
 Once the order originally came into effect in April 1, the cost of these automobile products shot up, both in the open and grey market. Sale of spurious devices too spiked up in the city’s suburbs attracting raids by the police. 
 
 Old and duplicate parts were rented out by brokers, gathered outside RTOs, for the sake of registration, said Raja (name changed), driver of an app-based  . “Many opted to pay Rs 500- Rs 1,000 demanded by these brokers instead of spending Rs 4,000- Rs 10,000 towards permanent installation of these devices.”
 
 Responding to this, an RTO from Chennai said that it was impossible to check the genuineness and installation status of these devices. 
 
 Even before the ambiguity surrounding the issue could be resolved, the Centre has put the orders on hold thereby giving Tamil Nadu a break to set things right.
 
 As a first step, the state transport department is planning to submit a proposal to set up control centres in all districts and integrate them. 
 
 “Setting up such centres is not completely new for the state. We have successfully two such centres — for autos and police patrol vehicles — in Chennai city. The recent proposal under consideration would be an extension of the same,” said a senior official from the transport department. 
 
 The challenge would be in integrating data received from every nook and corner of the state to the control centre in the headquarters given the magnitude of vehicles involved in public service. 
 
 At present, more than 20 lakh commercial vehicles are playing on TN roads and 10% among them were categorised as public service vehicles including call taxis, tourist buses and vehicles used by educational institutions. 
 
 “We expect the government to come out with a fare slab for these devices so that automobile firms do not fleece us,” the taxi driver added. 
 
 
