BENGALURU: Patients awaiting organ donations in Karnataka can soon know where they stand in the list. Jeevasarthakathe, the state body working on cadaver organ donation, will, in another two weeks, put up on its web portal the list of patients awaiting organ donations and update it real time.

 The move is expected to bring about transparency and help families of patients waiting for organs prepare for their turn, without making repeated calls to coordinators.
 
 Over 3,000 patients are waiting for organs in Karnataka and have registered with Jeevasarthakathe. Kidney patients top the list, with some of them in the queue for 10 years.
 
 “This facility will make a lot of difference. Each transplant centre (hospital) can see the status of the waiting list for their patients. It will be launched shortly,” said Dr  , convener, Jeevasarthakathe. The team is working on it for the last four months along with the National Informatics Centre.
 
 “Each registered patient will be given a user ID and password. The hospitals can also assist patients in this regard,” said Manjula K U, chief transplant coordinator, Jeevasarthakathe. Every day, the organization receives 10-15 calls from patients’ families seeking to know about their status on the waiting list.
 
 “The website should ideally maintain two waiting lists, a hospital list and a list of the general pool. This should have come long ago to aid many patients. This is the model accepted in Tamil Nadu. It can make a lot of difference,” said Dr Sankaran Sundar, nephrologist from Manipal Hospital.
 
 Krishna Kumari, 56, a resident of Bommanahalli, underwent kidney transplant at a private hospital near   five years ago through cadaver donation. Her daughters used to get in touch with the erstwhile ZCCK (now Jeevasarthakathe) via emails and phone calls to know where their mother stood on the waiting list. The family shifted from Belur in   to Bengaluru for her transplant. 
 
 “A move like online updation helps a lot, especially for those who are from districts and come to Bengaluru for transplant. It helps patients plan their finances and also make other arrangements,” said Swathi Sundar, Krishna Kumari’s daughter.
 
 The move has given hope to many. “I call the office often and it’s not easy to check whether anyone has been declared brain dead and and if I’d be getting his or her organ. Psychologically, it affects the patient. It’s good if an online system helps me with the update,” said a 32-year-old renal failure patient, currently on dialysis.
 
 Cadaver donations in Karnataka
 
 Year ------------ Number
 
 2014 ------------ 39
 
 2015------------- 60
 
 2016------------ 70
 
 2017------------ 70
 
 2018------------ 1 (so far) 
 
 Organs needed 
 
 Kidney: 2,240
 
 Liver: 700
 
 Heart: 45
 
 Kidney, pancreas: 7
 
 Heart and lungs : 8
 
 Liver and kidney: 7
 
 Lungs : 7
 
 Source: Jeevasarthakathe
 
 
