GURUGRAM: Of the roughly 3,600 acres of land   had acquired to develop  , around 350 acres in possession of the authority is yet to be developed, of which, 58 acres has been encroached upon over a period of time. 

 Reeling under a financial crisis, Huda is now planning to free these land parcels from the encroachers and sell them to raise money. 
 
 For this, Huda has created a dedicated enforcement wing headed by a SDO-rank officer, to carry out an anti-encroachment drive in the coming days.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Authority has directed its estate officers to prepare a list of land parcels that have been encroached, to prepare a plan for the anti-encroachment drive. 
 
 Officials said around 8.56 acres has been encroached upon under the jurisdiction of estate office 1, while the corresponding figure for areas under jurisdiction of estate office 2 is around 49.80 acre.
 
 Though the Authority admits to only around 58 acres as encroached, but officials admitted the figure is likely to be higher. “Around half of the unplanned land is currently encroached upon,” said an official, adding that approximately 150 acre is encroached. 
 
 Market value of these lands is around Rs 20-25 crore per acre, making the total value of the land encroached upon at around Rs 3,300 crore. 
 
 Huda is eyeing to free this to raise funds from auction and overcome its financial problems. 
 
 A further 256 acre under the jurisdiction of EO 1 is under litigation, with the corresponding figure for EO 2 being around 246 acre. Market value of these is around Rs 11,000 crore.
 
 Huda administrator   said both estate offices have been directed to prepare the list of encroached plots. 
 
 “We’ve a dedicated enforcement wing to remove encroachers with the help of police,” he said, adding this job is their top priority now.
 
 Recently, few incidents have come to light in which private people have sold off Huda land and even developed illegal colonies right under the nose of the urban development officials. 
 
 Encroachment of prime land was also highlighted at one of the meetings of the district grievance committee, at which the chief minister had ordered the department to pro-actively take back their possession.
 
 With focus on monetising Huda property to raise funds, the urban development body is now focusing on encroachment removal. In the past few months, Huda, along with MCG and DTCP, had cleared large patches of land in parts of the city.
 
