Sanjib Chakraborty

 Kolkata
 
 Piyali Bose, in her early thirties, and her eight-year-old son, ran nearly one-and-a-half kilometers to where her husband, Rajesh had gone for a New Year party invite late on Sunday.
 
 Barely 10 minutes before that Piyali had received a call in her cell-phone in which Rajesh was screaming for help. Minutes before they could reach the terrace, where Rajesh was – in a friend’s home at Agarpara’s Kadamtala near Sodepur – they heard gun-shots. Rajesh by then had took a bullet hit on his forehead, reportedly fired at a point blank range, and lay in a pool of blood, motionless. Piyali and her child were a few minutes late.
 
 Even hours after the incident when the child narrated the incident, unusually calm, he recollected how he heard a gun-shot while he – and his mother – were climbing the staircase to reach the terrace. “When I, somehow, managed to go upstairs to reach the terrace, I heard the gun shot and my father cried out uttering my mother’s name. I rushed to the terrace but my father was lying alone there while others were found nowhere. They fled the spot using a ladder from the terrace,” the child said. He also said how people who stayed in that home tried to resist them from going upstairs. The child, however, was only aware that his father was taken to the hospital. He wasn’t told that he didn’t survive the wound.
 
 The incident which has left the neighbourhood shocked due to its brutality took place sometime between 11:30 pm and 11:40 pm, police sources said.
 
 Rajesh worked as a medical representative with a Kolkata based pharmaceutical company. He stayed with his family in Ghola’s Prafullanagar (near Sodepur). Last night, he had gone to his friend Toton Roychowdhury’s home. Toton worked in a local medical laboratory.
 
 Prima facie, police investigations indicate, Rajesh and Toton were very good friends. However, they had a tiff over a financial issue. The exact problem isn’t known immediately, locals claimed. But this had even led to the duo to stop talking to each other for the past six months.
 
 This, however, couldn’t be verified. Rajesh’s mother, Mita, said the family was not aware of any enmity between the two. “They were very good friends. Toton used to come to our house. They even had lunch together here. We never heard about any dispute between them. My son didn’t tell us anything about it, either. We can’t understand why Toton hatched this conspiracy to kill my son,” she said.
 
 Piyali wasn’t in a position to speak. 
 
 Last night, sources said, Toton had invited Rajesh to his home for a New Year party. He had reportedly told Rajesh that he was keen to resolve their tiff and revive their old friendship.
 
 The duo had a few drinks, police said. It was sometime later, Rajesh was gunned down. The murderers had used a ladder to climb down from the terrace and flee. Toton is also absconding, police said.
 
 Rajesh was taken to the RG Kar Medical College hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 After being informed a police team from Ghola PS rushed to the spot. The sniffer dogs were also used in search of clues.
 
 “Some persons are being questioned in this connection. The investigation is on with a conducting a raid to nab the culprits,” said Suprakash Pattyanayak, Ghola police station officer-in-charge, said.
 
 
