THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet on Thursday allowed prisoners to   to their relatives. The jail department will have to bear the hospitalization expenses and take care of the food requirements during the harvesting of organs. 

 The Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services (Management) Act, 2014, will be amended to facilitate the decision that followed an application from a life convict lodged in   prison to donate his organs.
 
 The period of hospitalization will be considered as parole and there will be no remission in prison term. The jail authorities will have to obtain sanction from the medical board and the court that convicted the person for harvesting organs. 
 
 The cabinet has given nod for the proposal to let prisoners in the state donate their organs. The decision follows the incident wherein a life convict lodged at Kannur prison expressed his wish to donate organs.
 
 For this, the government has decided to bring in necessary amendments to Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services (Management) Act 2014. However, the new rule will insist that prisoners could donate organs only to their relatives. The period of hospitalization of a prisoner, during the harvest of his/her organs, will be considered as parole. There will be no remission in prison term following the  .
 
 The jail authorities will have to receive sanction from the medical board and thetrial court that convicted the person before harvesting organs. The jail department willhave tobear theexpense incurred during the hospitalization and take care of food requirements during the period.
 
 P Sukumaran, serving life sentence at Kannur central jail, had sought permission to  . However, before he got the permission the donee passed away.
 
 The decision, however, fails to enthuse proponents of organ donation. “Withthe clause limiting the donation to immediate relatives, the impactof thedecision is nullified. There are hundreds of seriously-ill people who are waiting for donors. They won’t get the benefit of the decision,” said a senior doctor actively involved with  .
 
