CHANDIGARH: Just days after bodies of 27 Punjabi men were brought home from Iraq, another set of 27 Punjabis along with four men from neighbouring states are stuck in   and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) after having been lured there by unscrupulous travel agents.

 Aam Aadmi Party’s Garhshankar MLA   and chief AAP spokesperson Harjot Singh Bains forwarded their details to the ministry of external affairs on Tuesday and sought help .
 
 The men stuck in the two West Asian countries did not know what was in store for them when they left India to work there, according to Bains. “Most of them fell for unscrupulous travel agents and on reaching the Arab countries, their passports were taken away and they cannot come back without the Centre’s intervention,” he added.
 
 Over 300 Punjabi men could be stuck in various countries, he warned. “We have tried to compile a list from information received by party leaders, but there is a need to conduct a survey of all those who need immediate help abroad. The biggest reason for the illegal migration and detention is fake travel agents," the AAP leaders said.
 
 The families of the 27 Punjabis, most of whom are struggling financially, have been trying to get them back home. However, they allege that no one was ready to redress their complaints.
 
 Joginder Singh, who runs a cycle repair shop in Chahal Khurd village of Punjab’s Nawanshahr district, is worried as both his sons are stuck in the UAE.
 
 “Their employer took a loan in their name and now he is behind bars for some other offence. The travel documents of my sons —   and Prithi Pal — are with him and he’s not willing to hand them over. For several days, my sons, who are in their late 30s, have been out on the streets without food and shelter. In extreme heat, they are sitting under a temporary shed along with five men from other parts of Punjab. They need immediate help,” said Joginder, who revealed that his sons had to work abroad as he had “a big loan to repay.”
 
 Harbhajan Singh, father of 27-year-old Tajinder Singh from Una, Himachal Pradesh said his son was stuck in Saudi Arabia. “He was hired as a driver by a private company, along with four others from Hoshiarpur on a two year contract. But even after 30 months, they are not allowed to leave. My wife is unwell and desperately wants to see her son, who stopped sending money for some time now,” he said.
 
 “Yesterday, these five youth left their workplace, but their employer called the police who brought them back to him. Their visas have expired, but they are still not being sent back. I tried to raise the issue through the Himachal government and then approached Garhshankar MLA Jai Kishan Singh,” the hapless father added.
 
 There have been reports earlier about Punjabis held captive by their employers. In 2014, a group of nearly 250 Punjabis had been locked in a basement in Iraq’s Najaf area by their company.
 
 They had no money to even buy tickets and had to be rescued by the Union government.
 
 
