NAGPUR: The state government and   ( ) have decided to widen several major roads in the state. A meeting between chief minister   and union transport minister   was held in Mumbai on Saturday to discuss these projects.

 Several proposals came up for discussion. These included six-laning of  . Presently it is a four-lane road. 
 
 Four-laning of many roads in the region was also proposed including Nagpur-Umred, Saoner-Dhapewada-Kalmeshwar- Gondkhairi, Warora-Wani, Nagpur-Katol, Amgaon-Gondia, Akola-Washim-Hingoli-Waranga Phata and   stretches. All of them are two-lane roads at present.
 
 The other roads to be four laned in the state are: Aurangabad-Karodi, Karodi-Telwadi, Ausa-Chakur, Chakur-Loha, Loha-Waranga Phata and Bamni-Warur.
 
 Fadnavis and Gadkari directed the officials to expedite the works for Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg and Sant Dyaneshwar Palkhi Marg. Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg work includes Baramati-Indapur, Patas-Vasunde Phata-Baramati and Indapur-Akluj-Malkhanbi-Bondale stretches. Sant Dyaneshwar Palkhi Marg work includes Mohol to end of Pandharpur bypass, Pandharpur bypass-Wakhari to Khudus, Khudus-Dharmapuri, Solapur, Satara district border to start of Lonand-Nira bypass, Lonand-Pimpare and Jejuri bypass to Hadapsar.
 
 Progress of various four and six laning of roads in Ahmednagar, Sangli, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri, Pune, Nashik, Thane, Satara and other districts got reviewed along with proposed and to be awarded projects.
 
 Eknath Shinde, minister for Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), was present in the meeting. All the district collectors joined via video conferencing. Senior officials from union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), NHAI, public works department (PWD) and MSRDC attended the meeting. Speeding up of land acquisition and other coordination issues got discussed between various departments. The collectors presented district-wise progress of land acquisition for road projects.
 
 Ever since Gadkari has become the union transport minister, widening of roads in the state is going on at a fast pace. Many works have started and many more are in the pipeline.
 
 
