LUCKNOW: With duets of   and Rafi-Lata filling the sunny afternoon air already rich with the  , the setting was perfect for the   on Sunday at Salempur House.

 Amuch-awaited segment of the  , the food gala saw people waiting in long queues much before the stalls opened, discussing what they would eat first from the close to 30 stalls.
 
 Naaz’s Awadhi thali showed there was no dearth of vegetarian options in the region’s cuisine. Her ‘mirchi ka salan’, made with de-seeded large green chillies and cooked in a gravy of peanut, sesame, coconut, poppy seeds and ginger-garlic paste, made for a spicy yet creamy delicacy.
 
 Noor Khan’s ‘lal mich qeema’ was a quick-selling dish. The founder of the home food festival, Khan, a vegetarian, said she developed the recipe 10 years ago as an experiment.
 
 Rashid Husain, the only male participant, brought to the festival his mother’s mutton yakhni pulao.
 
 Beyond Awadhi food was the ‘Bundeli Thali’, consisting of a potato-tomato curry that had its own fan following. Set up by NGO Apni Rasoi of Chitrakoot, all work here is done by the women from the rural region. Usha, who was at the stall, said, “Our sabzi uses very little oil and spices. Because of poverty in Bundelkhand, this has become the way of life. Our NGO’s aim is to help women feel that their work of cooking can also earn them money,” she said.
 
 Empowering women is actually the theme of the festival. “None of our home cooks does this commercially. While some only take their cost, many do not even take that. All the money that comes in is used for our women leadership programmes,” said Madhvi Kuckreja, the founder of the festival.
 
 
 
 
 
 Dhan sak to  , a plateful of choices
 
 Further ahead was Farzana Shahab’s ‘aaloo gosht’. Using her ‘naanidaadi’s’ recipe, she brought 5kg of the dish. “I started preparations at 6am today,” she says, proud that it is over within about two hours.
 
 Food getting finished is an emotional moment for the chefs who say that it means their hard work has been rewarded.
 
 “It’s a proud feeling when you cut your name from the menu standee at the entrance. That means your food is finished,” said Husain.
 
 With her origin in Gadhi, Manakpur, Asma Khan cooked ‘pateeli ki tikiya’ in a deep earthen pot, resulting in succulent kebabs.
 
 At Shamim’s stall, galawat kebabs were being fried non-stop from the 10kg kebab batter she had got.
 
 Making a burst of colours was Madhu Wadhwa’s Punjabi Thali stall decorated with quirky items from her home. ‘Makke ki roti-sarson ka saag’ and ‘kachories-aloo’ were served with accompaniments of ‘kali gajar ki kanji’ and her special jaggery.
 
 “I make this at home with saunf, ajwain, sesame, dry fruits all mixed into jaggery. It’s a family speciality,” said Wadhwa.
 
 Zarine Viccaji’s Dhan Sak, a Parsi delicacy of mutton cooked with dal, potatoes and brinjal, was also an exotic dish that her cook Sushma learnt from her mother who in turn learnt it from Zarine’s mother.
 
 A variety of halwas, kheer and mithais adorned the desserts section.
 
 Dawn fest, mushaira leave people in awe
  
 Sunday at the Sanatkada Lucknow Festival began with vocal artist Padma Talwalkar performing to a rapt audience. The dawn recital introduced listeners to the divine, the way only music can.
 
 Later, art historian and curator Naman Ahuja spoke about the 18th century European painter Johan Zoffany and by late afternoon, scientist Saman Habib and writer Shama Zaidi talked at length about French effect on drama and fiction in Awadh.
 
 The evening stage was lit with Mehfil-e-Mushaira, led by poets Khushbir Singh Shaad and Abhishek Shukla. 
 
