In the latest episode of  , Virat is angry that his plan failed to work and shouts at the goons he hired. He goes home and takes one of the goons with him. He sees Roma, Tara(Arohi) and Deep waiting for him.

 Virat tells them that he had found the culprit behind the kidnapping. Roma slaps the goon and asks him who asked him to kidnap Tara.The goon blames Arohi. Hearing this, Arohi(Tara) gets shocked. Roma and Virat are also surprised to discover that Arohi is alive. Deep tells them about the truth and says he didn't want to scare them.
 
 Arohi calls Chawani and tells him about the kidnapping attempt. She wonders how did Virat discover the truth about Arohi being alive. Chawani also worries.
 
 Deep and Roma discuss the matter at hand when the latter asks him why he hid the truth from her. Deep apologizes. Roma tells him that she will take care of Tara and her child knowing that Arohi is alive.
 
 Deep goes to the room where he brings Tara a gift. He tells her that Roma asked him too many questions about Arohi which made him busy. He gives her earphones to hear the baby's heartbeat. Deep promises to protect their baby and then takes Tara to another room where Niku is present. Seeing him, Tara is shocked and asks Deep to use Niku as a bait to get to Arohi. When Deep leaves, Arohi promises to help Niku escape.
 
 Later in the night, Deep is fast asleep when Arohi wakes up and goes to Niku's room. Virat sees her and goes behind her. Prithvi also follows them.
 
 Arohi sees Niku. At first, he gets scared and tries to run but Arohi tries to make him understand that she is Arohi. Niku bites her hand and tries to run. As Prithvi is about to enter the room, Arohi hits Niku on the head and he faints. Deep also wakes up and realizes Tara is not with him. Arohi decides to take Niku with her.
 
 Deep searches for Tara. When he finds her, she tells him that she couldn't sleep so she went for a walk. Deep asks her to come inside. Tara says she will return after some time and thinks of a way to hide Niku.
 
 Roma and Deep wait for Tara to return. The former wonders why Tara would go away in the middle of the night. Tara returns with Niku in her arms. Everybody is shocked to see him alive.
 
