 made space for a large gathering of fitness enthusiasts 
  as a grand fitness fair was kicked off at the India Expo Mart with a performance by   founder  , rapper   and singer  . The Zumba class at the fair brought together fitness enthusiasts from not just Noida but also different cities. From toddlers to elderly people, everybody moved to the   and the hall was filled with positivity.

 Badshah and Aastha sang ‘Mercy’ and their latest track ‘Buzz’ as the Zumba lovers danced to these songs. Addressing the crowd, Badshah said, “I am so glad to be associated with you all and Zumba. Also, it’s so good to see so many happy faces early in the morning.”
 
 
  
  Badshah and Aastha Gill sing their latest track ‘Buzz’
 
 He added, “I really like the energy here. The shopping centres that have come up here in Noida are really good. I have noticed that new malls, amusement parks and family spots have come up here, which is great progress.”
 
 Beto Perez, creator of the Zumba programme, said, “Indians have a knack for dancing. The music, the spirit, the passion for music is all there in them. They celebrate everything, weddings, and holidays etc, that’s why Zumba is working here. And also because Indians are very happy people.” When asked if Beto has ever performed at an Indian wedding, he said, “I have seen pictures of traditional outfits and everything, but I have never attended a wedding. I would love to perform at an Indian wedding.”
 
 
  
  Beto Perez at the event
 
 Beto, who visited Delhi for the first time, added, “This is my first time in Delhi and I find the traffic here much better than that in Mumbai. Food is delicious, but people here use so many spices. It is not good for my stomach. They put a lot of salt and pepper and it doesn’t suit my stomach. But I have to say, the desserts here are amazing.”
 
  
  The Zumba class brought together fitness enthusiasts from not just Noida but also different cities
 
 Badshah and Aastha’s performance was the highlight of the show and everyone enjoyed it. Sylee Chaudhary, one of the instructors from Nagpur, said, “This is a worldwide programme and everyone was so excited to participate. We are one of the ZINs (Zumba Instructor Network) and we really enjoyed here. Badshah was amazing and it was such a surprise when he came. He is really friendly and it was really nice."
 
  
  Instructors from Bangalore
 
 A few instructors from Bangalore thought that Greater Noida was not as happening as they thought it would be. “Noida is a bit dry. The place that was chosen for this Zumba class is a little secluded and deserted. First time travellers to such fairs in Noida may find it difficult to be comfortable as generally most events are held in Delhi. We realised it is too far, but the Zumba classes were the best. The energy was very high. The Noida crowd was very lively. We learned a lot from Beto and did a lot of networking as well. It is really helpful to connect with other Zumba instructors,” said Sapna Jadhav, a Zumba instructor from Bangalore. 
 
 
  
  Participants and group of instructors from Nagpur 
 
