GUWAHATI: The results of the   conducted by CBSE came as a disappointment for the northeastern states on Tuesday, with the overall pass percentage in the   dropping to 62.29%, a fall by about three percent from last year. 

 The results of the Guwahati region, which covers eight northeastern states, including Sikkim, has continued to show a falling trend in pass percentage this year. The pass percentage of the Guwahati zone slipped to 83.79% in 2016 from the pass percentage of 86.55% recorded in 2015, before plummeting to 65.53% in 2017.
 
 The pass percentage of boys and girls in the Guwahati zone recorded only a marginal difference, as 62.35% boys passed the examination, surpassing the girls by a narrow margin. The pass percentage of the girls stood at 62.21% in Guwahati region this year. A total of 63,098 candidates from the region were registered to take the exam from 915 schools across northeast, where the examination was held in 328 centres.
 
 While the Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) usually record the best pass percentage from the Guwahati zone, the trend was reversed by the students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs). While the JNVs of northeast achieved best pass percentage with 92.21%, the pass percentage of the KVs were recorded to be 91.25%.
 
 State government schools, mostly in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, performed poorly and contributed towards the decline in the pass percentage. Government schools that come under the Guwahati region of CBSE could manage to touch a pass percentage of 34.71 only. Private schools showed a better performance with a pass percentage of 80.50, though it fell short of the central government-managed JNVs and KVs.
 
 Several leading city schools once again produced cent percent results, with many board examinees scoring perfect hundred in major subjects. Army Public School (APS), Shillong fared well in the examination. APS student Nishtha Chaudhary became the school topper with 98.2% aggregate marks as 11 students from the Shillong-based school secured 90% and more marks in aggregate.
 
 A total of 33 students of the Maharishi Vidyamandir, Barsajai scored an aggregate percentage of 90 and above, while the school produced cent percent results. Maharishi Vidyamandir, Barsajai student Tejaswi Deka became the school topper with 96.6% marks.
 
 
