NAGPUR: The   (NU) has once again failed to announce the results of Bachelor of Arts (BA) first semester even over two months after the exam. The   exam section had conducted more than 1,150 exams in the winter session, and results for most have been declared within the prescribed 45 days from the last paper.

 The BA first semester exam started on October 31, 2017, and ended on December 7, but results are not out yet. This is the third consecutive time when NU has messed up with BA results, without giving any concrete reason.
 
 The NU apathy is shocking since delay in announcing results had cost   Sanjay   his job last year.
 
 Surprisingly, NU vice chancellor SP Kane is unaware of the delayed BA first semester result. He said 99% results had been declared within the deadline, but 1% always go beyond the time frame because of practicals. “I don’t know about BA result, but it must be because of practical exams,” he said.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole too was unaware of the exact reason, but indicated the results were not delayed because of valuation. “All valuation centres are closed now. The BA exam goes on for 56 days, considering the practicals,” he said.
 
 When TOI contacted director of examinations and evaluation Neeraj Khaty, he said the result would be out by Thursday evening. In the evening, Khaty said the result would be declared by Friday since some 200 wrong entries were found in the records. He also said the deadline is far from over since the exam ended in January.
 
 “The exam continued till January first week, so technically the 45 day deadline is yet to end. Besides, the quantum of students in BA is huge. About 30,000 to 40,000 are appearing and so it takes more time to process results,” he said. He added there are 54 subjects, with seven of them having practicals, marks for which were submitted late by colleges.
 
 Last year, BA first and second semester result was delayed by over three months. In a series of reports, TOI had highlighted the passing scheme was changed for first semester and in the second semester in 2017 to improve results.
 
 
