NEW DELHI: The United States today lodged a protest after a Russian fighter jet came withing 5 feet (1.5 meters) of a   reconnaissance plane over the   on Monday.

 
 Following the incident, the US called upon Russia to "cease" these unsafe action and "behave within international standards set to ensure safety". Russia, however, dismissed the allegation and said that all safety precautions were observed during the interception.
 
 The incident unfolded while the US   Aries spy plane was on a mission in international airspace. It was intercepted by a Russian Su-27, which flanked the US aircraft for a total of two hours and 40 minutes, according to a statement released by the US Navy.
 
 "This interaction was determined to be unsafe due to the Su-27 closing to within five feet (1.5 meters) and crossing directly through the EP-3's flight path, causing the EP-3 to fly through the Su-27's jet wash," the US Navy statement read.
 
 "The Russian military is within its right to operate within international airspace, but they must behave within international standards set to ensure safety and prevent incidents," the statement read.
 
 According to Russian defence ministry, an unidentified air target was spotted on Monday over the Black Sea neutral waters, approaching the Russian airspace borders.
 
 "A Su-27 fighter jet from air defense alert force was used to intercept the target. The Su-27 approached the aircraft to a safe distance and identified it as a US ЕР-3Е Aries II electronic warfare and reconnaissance aircraft," the ministry was quoted by Russia's news agency TASS.
 
 The jet returned to the base after the US plane changed its flight path away from the Russian borders, the ministry clarified.
 
 "The Su-27 flight was performed in strict compliance with international rule of airspace use, not incidents were reported," the ministry added.
 
 Russian and   forces are both operating in international air space above the Black Sea, and activity in the region has heated up since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014.
 
 The US military has reported several "unsafe" interactions with Russian jets in the skies over the Black Sea in recent months.
 
