CHANDIGARH: Despite   leadership’s effort to strike a regional and caste balance in  , it seems to have given a raw deal to the Doaba region, besides not having added any Dalit face to the list.

 The only legislator from Doaba is Sunder Shyam Arora from Hoshiarpur, while there is no representation of Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Meanwhile, Raj Kumar Verka, the party’s prominent Dalit face too was left out as O P Soni, another senior MLA from Amritsar, managed to make it to the council of ministers.
 
  
  
 
 “The party has tried to come up with a please-all list by getting its arithmetic right with a mix of Jat and Hindu faces. Those left out would be accommodated as legislative assistants and heads of boards and corporations. The party was spoilt for choices,” said a party leader.
 
 Where the new list has a majority of chief minister Amarinder Singh’s loyalists, the high command seems to have pushed Vijay Inder Singla’s name while Ambika Soni’s loyalist Sunder Shyam Arora has been included, besides Balbir Sidhu, who enjoys a good equation with Punjab co-in charge  .
 
 At the same time, the party has chosen Ravneet Bittu confidant Bharat Bhushan Ashu from Ludhiana West over four-time MLA from Ludhiana North Rakesh Kumar Pandey. Sources said a section of leaders like party president   were initially not very keen on induction of Rana Sodhi.
 
 “The party has given due representation to most districts from Majha and Malwa regions. It is only Doaba that has got poor representation. The inclusion of Pargat Singh could have done the balancing act for the party,” admitted a party leader.
 
 Meanwhile, Amarinder clarified that seniority was the key criteria in the selection of the new ministers. He added that he hoped that the expansion of the cabinet would infuse fresh dynamism into the government, as the workload of the state’s nearly 40 departments would get divided among 18 members, including him.
 
 
 Ministers of state Razia Sultana and Aruna Chaudhary will also be elevated to cabinet ranks and they too would take fresh oath. There is also talk of a possible reshuffle of the portfolios of the existing ministers.
 
 
