CHANDIGARH: In yet another   of artefacts belonging to Chandigarh, furniture items designed by   and Le   were sold for over Rs 65 lakh at a Paris-based auction house.

 A pair of armchair was sold for Rs 52 lakh, while a table fetched Rs 13.60 lakh.
 
 Since 2007, a large number of furniture items designed by Pierre Jeanneret and Le Corbusier had been auctioned in France, US and England. Furniture items were purchased by foreign nationals at low prices and later auctioned at higher price.
 
 Last week, Vice-President’s office sought reply from Panjab University over auction of artefacts belonging to Panjab University in foreign countries going unchecked.
 
 To preserve its heritage artefacts, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had recently asked the UT administration for taking corrective steps.
 
 Director general of ASI had advised the administration to prepare an inventory of   with subsequent authentication of their authorship. The ASI had also suggested that a museum dedicated to Le Corbusier and his team can be established by the administration, which will prevent taking these works of art out of India.
 
 UT heritage expert and social activist Ajay Jagga has written to Union minister for home affairs and Union minister for external affairs for putting a check on heritage furniture sold in foreign countries.
 
 On March 16, heritage furniture was sold for Rs 18 lakh at a France-based auction house, while on January 20, furniture items were sold for around Rs 20 lakh at a New York-based auction house. On September 18, 2017, a total of six furniture items designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 13 lakh at a US-based auction house.
 
 On May 9, 2017, a total of six furniture items designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 1.5 crore at Phillips, a London-based auction house, while on January 22, 2017, furniture items designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 65.26 lakh at Rago Arts and Auction Centre, a New Jersey-based auction house. 
 
 In September 10, 2016, a total of eight items designed by Pierre Jeanneret were sold for Rs 25 Lakh at a New York-based auction house, while in June 10, 2016, as many as four heritage items, furniture designed Le Corbusier were sold for Rs 1 crore at a New York-based auction house.
 
 
