 AGRA: To monitor implementation of nutrition schemes for children and pregnant women in real time and keep a tab on use of funds, state government plans to equip   workers with smartphones which will be uploaded with a common application software (CAS), developed by the central government. 

  According to senior officials of the state department of women and child development, in the first phase, the new monitoring system will be applied in 40 districts severely affected by malnutrition. For this, 54,000 smartphones have already been purchased. Distribution will start soon.
 
  District programme officer   said senior officials in Lucknow spoke about a plan to equip anganwadi workers with smartphones for real-time monitoring. Officials said complaints of anganwadi centres not operating properly, absentee workers and misuse of funds are rampant. 
 
  "So far, no directions have been received regarding distribution of smartphones. The plan is a component of Systems Strengthening and Nutrition Improvement Program (ISSNIP) for better implementation of   (ICDS) in districts having high rate of malnutrition," Kumar added.
 
  Under the new system, after weighing a child, an anganwadi worker will upload the details on CAS software. Attendance and various other details can also be uploaded on the smartphone. At present, anganwadi centres maintain a register in which name and weight of child, health, nutrition, immunization and other details are recorded. 
 
  According to sources, the data from all districts use to reach headquarters after much delay. Now, through the smartphone, authorities will have access to required data real time.
 
  Officials say real-time monitoring system will help in faster identification of lapses in implementation of nutrition schemes and enable authorities to take time-bound action. Easy and error free data compilation will allow authorities to make proper assessment and develop new schemes to fight malnutrition.
 
  According to   (NFHS), 46.5 children in UP between the age group of 0 to 5 years are suffering from malnutrition. As many as 35.7% are under-weight.
 
 
