PATNA: The state higher education department has taken a serious view of non-cooperation from several universities and constituent colleges in uploading ‘online data’ about their institutions to the site of All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for 2017-2018 academic session.

 The   entry within the stipulated time is mandatory for each university and college of the state every year so that the Union human resource development (HRD) department could work out a meticulous plan for the development of higher education in the state. 
 
 According to state higher education department special secretary Manoj Kumar, the deadline for data entry on the AISHE portal was March 4, 2018. “It is unfortunate that most of the universities and colleges, including the affiliated ones, could not upload the data as yet causing much embarrassment to the state government,” he said, adding principal secretary (education) R K Mahajan also issued a reminder to each university and college on March 12 and extended the last date for uploading the data up to April 30. But, most of the institutions failed to comply even with the extended deadline.
 
 According to state nodal officer (AISHE) Mukesh Chandra Verma, about 250 and odd colleges have failed to upload the online data so far. Among the most important defaulters are IGIMS, IIT-Patna, Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, K K University (private), Nalanda, B N College (Patna University), T P S College, Patna, S S College, Jehanabad, SMD College, Punpun, SGGS College, Patna City and Daudnagar College, Daudnagar under the Magadh University. Under the L N Mithila University, D B College, Darbhanga, J N College, Nehra (Darbhanga), K S College (Darbhanga), K V Science College (Darbhanga) and W R College (Rosera) have failed to meet the deadline, he said.
 
 The state education department also expressed its annoyance at non-cooperation from B N Mandal University as B N M V College (Madhepura), Purnia Mahila College, R L College (Madhunagar, Purnia), R M M Law College (Saharsa) and   (Saharsa) failed to upload online data despite repeated reminders. Besides, Sri Krishna Singh Mahila College (Motihari), R P S College (Chakiya) and Sri Narayan Singh College (Motihari) under the BRAB University did not follow the state education department directive, state AISHE nodal officer said.
 
 According to him, out of 24 major institutions in the state, 17 have uploaded the data. Likewise, out of 623 affiliated colleges in the state, 271 of them have not furnished information about their colleges. Under the new Acts and regulations based on the UGC guidelines, it is mandatory for the universities and colleges to upload online data about their institutions to avail grants from the UGC and RUSA, failing which they would not be eligible for the NAAC accreditation also, he said. 
 
 
