On April 24, the Kanyakumari police arrested a 40-year-old man from a village near Marthandam for sexually abusing his five-year-old neighbour who lived with her  .

 When an 11-year-old girl wanted to spend her summer vacation with her uncle at Bengaluru’s Anekal area, her parents readily agreed. But, when her mother arrived a week later, she realised something was wrong with the child. The girl told her that she was repeatedly molested by the uncle’s brother, who threatened her with dire consequences. The Bengaluru Rural Police are now searching for the accused.
 
 On April 30, a woman returned home to find her drunk husband raping their four-and-a-half-year-old girl at their home in Udaipur, Rajasthan. The woman with the help of a neighbour reported the incident to the police the next day. The father was arrested on May 2.
 
 The list goes on and the sordid tales come from every quarter, particularly from  . Police and activists say children are more likely to be sexually abused during holidays, when they spend more time at home alone, at relatives’ places and at camps.
 
 Thiruvananthapuram’s Childline director Fr P D Thomas said chances of child abuse were high during vacations though police statistics may not always reflect this. "This is because most cases are reported during counselling sessions at schools in June, July and August," he said.
 
 Also, children born in the ‘information age’ are more vulnerable to sexual abuse as they are exposed to adult content, say experts. "Almost all films and serials show dating. Children are curious to explore such things and it is easy to lure them, especially when the perpetrator is someone close to them. Children tend to keep such sexual exploitations a secret until they attend a counselling session by teachers or Childline volunteers," Thomas said.
 
 In Kanyakumari, that shares a border with Kerala, the retired population is high. During summer holidays, grandchildren spend time with their grandparents, aunts and uncles in their hometown. And, here begins the tale of   and rape by relatives and family friends.
 
 According to Mohammed Ali, Childline’s coordinator in Kozhikode, Kerala, there was a slight increase in child sexual abuse cases in April this year. While on an average it was 10 cases between April 2017 and March 2018, the number was 12 during April 2018. "But, we cannot affirm that children are more prone to sexual abuse during vacations as we do not keep a record of cases based on the time of occurrence, but when it is reported to Childline," he said.
 
 A total of 3,897 incidents of rape against minors and 1,877 incidents of physical exploitation were reported in Rajasthan between 2015 and 2017. Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (RSCPCR) chairperson Manan Chaturvedi said there was no study done in the state to indicate that incidents of child sexual abuse or rapes went up in summers. He says the incidents were not season specific.
 
 However, Rani Shetty, in-charge of Parihar, a government run helpline based in Bengaluru, asserts that summer holidays when children spend more time on streets or places other than home, is the time when they face a greater risk of sexual abuse. In a majority of the cases, the accused is known to the child. "He or she may be a relative, a neighbour or a family friend," said Shetty.
 
 Police officers say a majority of the child sexual abuse cases do not get reported due to family pressures and fear of social ignominy.
 
 Statistics from the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) and the police show that at least three cases have been registered on an average in April and May in Kanyakumari district over the past three years and the numbers are increasing over the years.
 
 "Unfortunately, children are the silent sufferers. We suggest that parents get more interactive, take their children into confidence and allow them to speak out," said Shetty.
 
 Recalling an incident where a music teacher sexually abused a minor, Kanyakumari-based district child protection officer (DCPO) S Kumuda stressed the need for precautionary measures to stop such crimes.
 
 The child protection unit is also carrying out a series of sensitisation programmes on child sexual abuse among members of women self-help groups. They include holding community meetings for women on church premises in the coastal areas and on the work site of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and sensitising adolescent girls undergoing block level training.
 
 (With inputs from Kerala, Bengaluru and Rajasthan)
 
 
