JALANDHAR: Lord Indrajit Singh, the first turbaned member of the UK’s House of Lords, has strongly criticized the attack on Sikh preacher Amrik Singh Chandigarh in a  . The director of the Network of Sikh Organizations (NSO) has called the attackers ‘hooligans’ ‘thugs’ and ‘Taksali bully boys’.

 “It is simply appalling that the victim of an unprovoked assault is being blamed by some for shameful violence at Singh Sabha Gurdwara, Southall earlier this week,” he has said in a statement issued by NSO.
 
 Asking other Sikh groups including the Sikh Council, the Sikh Federation and City Sikhs to condemn both the actions of the hooligans from Midlands and the dereliction of duty of the management of Singh Sabha Southall for allowing its premises to be used as venue for anti-Sikh behaviour, NSO said, “A prompt condemnation of the Taksali bully boys will speak volumes, so also will silence.”
 
 This comes against the backdrop of a delegation of Damdami Taksal meeting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh and blaming Amrik for the melee, and a section even justifying the assault on the preacher. The Akal Takht jathedar also preferred to put the onus on Sikh preachers and asked them to remain prepared to face the consequences of whatever they say.
 
 “His (Amrik Singh’s) uncompromising stance on the primacy of Guru Granth Sahib upset a gang of known hooligans from Tividale gurdwara in the Midlands. The gang owe allegiance to the so-called Dasam Granth in its entirety; despite that it was compiled by non-Sikhs and much of its contents extol the exploits of Hindu gods and goddesses,” Indrajit said.
 
 He also advocated that violence of any sort in a gurdwara should be reported to the police and perpetrators and their supporters should be barred until they give the sangat a public apology for their behaviour. “Members of a gurdwara managing committee must commit themselves to following our Guru’s order to be true to the teachings of the Guru Granth Sahib and not those of any other cult or sect and Gurudwaras should only be places for the preaching of Sikhism. Those want to preach distortions, however sincerely held, should do so in separate places of worship,” he has added.
 
 
