GURGAON: A five-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped in an auto from the front of her house in   area and raped on Monday evening. She returned home on Tuesday morning after she was dropped off in her colony in the same auto. 

 According to officials, the child lives with her parents and siblings in a slum in Rajiv Nagar area. The girl was playing in front of her house with her sister and brother and other children of the locality on Monday around 8 pm, when a man driving an auto approached them. He offered the girls a Rs 100 note and also, offered to buy them toffees. While the sister didn’t go with the man, the five-year-old girl sat in his auto and left with him, police said.
 
 The parents of the girl are daily wage labourers. When the girl’s sister went back home and told them that an auto-walla had taken the girl with him, the parents panicked. 
 
 The other children had already returned home. After searching for the girl in the colony, her parents informed the police. Police said that they registered an FIR on Monday night and started looking for the girl.
 
 A combing operation was carried out in the city through Monday night. “Teams were formed from various police stations, who searched the entire city, including empty plots, railway stations and bus stops,” said inspector  , SHO of Sector 14 police station. However, the police had no luck.
 
 Police said that no one in the neighbourhood remembered seeing the auto. On Tuesday morning, the auto apparently dropped the girl close to her house from where she walked home, they said. The girl came home around 7:15 am. However, no one spotted the auto-driver at that time too. 
 
 On Tuesday, a medical examination was carried out on the girl which confirmed that she was sexually assaulted. Police said that they have added sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act in the FIR and started investigating the incident as a rape case. 
 
 “We are working on some leads. Sections of the POCSO Act have been added to the FIR, after a medical examination confirmed that the girl was raped. We should be able to arrest the person responsible, soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (Crime).
 
 According to police, the girl is currently in trauma. So, cops will have to wait for a day or two before questioning her about what happened. Two teams have been constituted to work on the case and they are checking the   footage in the area to gather clues.
 
 In November 2016, a similar incident had shocked the city when a 5-year-old was found dead on Golf Course Road (extension) and later, confirmed to be raped. A similar incident was reported weeks later in Civil Lines when a 7-year-old girl was found dead in a drain in Rajiv Chowk. Both cases remain unsolved till date.
 
 A senior police official said that often young girls from slums become targets as they are easier to find and lure. According to police, 120 cases were registered under POCSO in 2016, and 135 in 2017.
 
 
