CHENNAI: A dawn-to-dusk   called by the DMK and its allies on Thursday to condemn the Centre’s failure to constitute a   management board evoked good response in Tamil Nadu with most shops remaining closed and a majority of public transport services affected.

 Train services were affected in some places due to rail rokos and most autorickshaws and cabs were off the roads. As per police reports, at least 59,302 agitators were arrested. Separately, 13,015 people were arrested for squatting on railway tracks and 907 held for staging demonstrations.
 
 The police arrested around 398 people for burning effigies and 20 people were held for damaging windshields of about 45 MTC and TNSTC buses, booked under separate Sections of IPC. In Thanjavur, about 51 Naam Tamilar Party members were held for gheraoing the Income Tax office.
 
 In Chennai, 6,000 protesters including 12 DMK legislators, and members of   and other parties were arrested in 51 incidents including sit-in protests on railway tracks. At least eight MTC buses were damaged near Vepery, when some miscreants on bikes hurled stones, while another seven were damaged in places like Doveton, Poonamallee, Tondiarpet, Red Hills, Thiruvottiyur, Anna Square and Swami Sivananda Salai. A senior MTC official said the protests were by and large peaceful.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin, TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar, Dravida Kazhagam leader K Veeramani and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan were arrested when they staged a blockade on Anna Salai and were marching towards Anna Memorial. After Stalin was arrested, DMK workers turned violent, some of them toppling barricades. Stalin and other leaders were detained in a marriage hall at Purasawalkam. Almost all those arrested for demonstrations were released late in the evening, while those held for stone-throwing were sent to jail.
 
 In an effort to slow down agitators rushing towards Marina Beach, after breaching the cordon in front of the Triplicane police station on Wallajah Road, the police put up more barricades on the remaining stretch and also parked buses and trucks haphazardly underneath the MRTS flyover.
 
 A senior police officer said, “Had the agitators been allowed to run free, the impact would have been huge on Kamarajar Salai. We placed many hurdles in their path following information that DMK workers planned to barge on to Marina Beach.”
 
 Of the nearly 80,000 autorickshaws in the city, nearly 70,000 stayed off the roads. “The drivers were not forced by anyone and they participated in the strike voluntarily,” said CITU south Chennai general secretary S Balasubramaniam.
 
 According to an official Southern Railway statement, trains were held up by agitators at Avadi, Chennai Park, Vaniyambadi, Jolarpettai and Ambur railway stations. About 10 EMU trains were held up. Four express trains were also affected by protests.
 
 At least eight passenger trains and expresses were disrupted in Salem Division including Magudanchavadi, Morappur, Cauvery, Elamanur, Rasipuram, Tiruppur and Lalapet railway stations.
 
 
