Ludhiana: A city-based advocate had to pay Rs 10,000 as fine after a local court dismissed his complaint against Bollywood stars   Khan and Shilpa Shetty accusing them of making derogatory remarks against a particular community. The court of judicial magistrate Sumit Sabharwal had, on March 27, ordered the complainant Narinder Aadia to pay the amount to the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) Ludhiana well before 9 April on proper receipt, failing which the complainant would undergo simple imprisonment for 30 days. However, the complainant deposited the cost of Rs 10,000 in DLSA Ludhiana.

 Aadia contended that he belonged to the SC category and Valmiki caste. Salman Khan is alleged to have given an interview during the promotion of the film ‘Ek Tha Tiger’, and in the interview, he is alleged to have used a derogatory word, and hence committed an offence under the SC/ST Act, while causing hurt to the feelings of the complainant towards Lord Valmiki. Shilpa Shetty is also alleged to have used the word, which is against the law. The complaint was lodged under sections 3 and 4 of the SC/ST Act, and 121 (waging, or attempting to wage a war, or abetting the waging of war, against the Government of India), 121-A (conspiracy to commit offences punishable by Section 121) and 295-A of the IPC (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage the religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs).
 
 Aadia’s counsel argued that the accused had made statements against Valmiki and uploaded a video on social media. He further submitted that through the evidence on record, Aadia had been able to prove his case and all the witnesses had corroborated his version and as such, the accused be summoned, tried, and punished according to law. The court had observed that the most essential ingredient for prosecuting an offender Section 295-A of the IPC, the intention had to be deliberate and malicious for outraging religious feelings. The said ingredient was squarely missing in the present complaint, as Aadia had failed to utter the same in his oral testimony while stepping into the witness box. “Merely placing on record photographs and newspapers pertaining to the irking of people of caste concerned holding demonstration ipso facto does not suffice the commission of offences alleged,” observed the court.
 
 The court further observed that the ingredients of sections 121 and 121-A of the IPC were altogether missing in the complaint, as the contents of the complaint were nowhere touching the applicability of sections 121 and 121-A of the IPC. The court also turned down Aadia’s complaint seeking action under SC/ST Act against Salman Khan and Shilpa Shetty. It ordered: “The complainant has failed to prove the ingredients of offences alleged under relevant sections in the present complaint, and the complaint, accordingly bereft of any substance, stands dismissed. Before parting with the present order, this court is of the considered opinion that the complaint was made without any reasonable cause, and the necessary cost is directed to be paid.”
 
 
