NOIDA: Even after being notified as a ‘no power cut zone’ several years back, Noida witnesses long outages. But the outages are caused by snags, not by a shortfall in supply. Now, officials say, an overhaul of the power infrastructure is under way to make Noida and Ghaziabad a ‘no-tripping zone’ by 2019, which would ensure no power cuts are caused by snags. Moreover, police stations dedicated to power theft will be set up by July.

 “Measures to declare Noida-Ghaziabad a ‘no-tripping zone’ in a year’s time include infrastructure upgrade to check overloading, setting up of new substations and transformers across the city, and underground laying of cables. While several apps have already been introduced for the convenience of people, dedicated police stations to check power theft will come up within three months,” said Ashutosh Niranjan, managing director of   (PVVNL).
 
 According to Niranjan, 90% of the work of underground laying of 33KV line and 30% of the 11 KV line has been completed. “All lines will be underground by March 2019. An additional cable is being thrown along with the underground cable so that supply can be provided through it in case a fault occurs in the original cable,” he added.
 
 To check the problem of power theft, dedicated police stations catering to complaints related to electricity will start operating from July. “The entire state will have these police stations. Right now, there’s not a single police station dedicated to power theft in the district. As a result, power theft is not taken seriously and thieves are getting emboldened,” said Niranjan.
 
 Apart from this, a vigilance team at these police stations will be added to ensure complete crackdown on power thefts. “Currently we have 33 vigilance teams working, whereas we need 88 such teams for the entire state,” he added.
 
 In summer, a resident shells out anything between Rs 5,000 and Rs 10,000 per month on power back-up, whereas in industrial sectors, the amount is much more with three to four hours of power cut daily. 
 
 “On a monthly basis I end up spend anything up to Rs 10,000 on diesel gensets when there’s a power cut, which is frequent these days,” said K Singh, a resident of Sector 30. In highrise apartments, the backup charges are Rs 100 per kva.
 
 According to Vipin Malhan, president of  , the average monthly expenditure on diesel gensets vary as per the size of the industry. “For a small industry of 200 Kw genset use, the avergare monthly expenditure comes to Rs 60,000 per month. This is because an hour of 200 Kw genset costs 9 to 10 litres of diesel,” he said.
 
 
