BHOPAL: The   (BU) convocation that is scheduled on February 24 is all set to be an ethnic affair. Students will be conferred degrees in traditional attires for the very first time on the campus. Attending guests too would join the bandwagon and will also be dressed in traditional clothing. 

 Incidentally, it will be the first convocation ceremony for newly- appointed governor Anandiben Patel as chancellor of the varsity.
 
 Issuing a notification, BU registrar UN Shukla stated that jackets, uttariyas and safas will be provided by the university itself. "It is mandatory for male students to wear white kurta and pyjama. Girls need to mandatorily wear either white colour salwar-kurtis or cream colour sarees," said Shukla.
 
 During the 93rd coordination committee meet organised at   last year, a decision was taken to implement ethnic attires for all university convocation ceremonies. The then governor, OP Kohli, had presided over the meeting.
 
 The meeting concluded that traditional attires would be worn by graduate and postgraduate students, executive council members, head of departments (HoDs), chancellor, vice-chancellors, chief guests as well as varsity registrars at all future convocation ceremonies in the state.
 
 The chancellor, vice-chancellor, chief guests and registrars will be dressed in off-white jackets and golden coloured uttariyas, while members of the executive council will wear cream coloured jackets and maroon coloured uttariyas. The HoDs will also need to wear cream coloured jackets. However, their uttariya colour will royal blue colour.
 
 Members of the academic council will be donning cream coloured jackets along with members of court. Their uttariya will be grey in colour. Students will be wearing golden brown jackets. However, the colour of their uttariyas will vary. Students of PhD and MPhil will have to wear lemon yellow coloured uttariyas, while under-graduate students will wear orange.
 
 Monograms of the respective colleges will also be displayed properly on the uttariyas, which will be pinned-up by buttons.
 
 A standing committee, comprising various vice-chancellors of universities had suggested traditional dress for all convocation ceremonies.
 
 
