In the latest episode of  ,   apologises to   for causing her all the trouble but she says he and his mother are not being considerate towards her. He tells her that he had thought that it was in her best interest to come to terms with her past before she started her life with Iqbal.

 
 Teni blames Parth and his family for taking advantage of Iqbal's simplicity and goes on to tell him that he cannot convince her as she is all set to marry Iqbal tomorrow.
 
 After Parth leaves, Teni breaks down in tears as she feels helpless. She feels that Iqbal and his mother helped her in her time of need and now she can't hurt them to serve her own selfish needs.
 
 Next morning, Iqbal finds Parth sleeping on the couch and asks him as to why Ipshita is upset with him but the latter declines to share the details. Later, Indu enters the scene and insists Parth to tell Ipshita about Teni.
 
 Next, Ipshita goes to to Teni’s room and tells her that she will never take her mother's place. Teni wonders how she could tell Ipshita the truth about their relationship. Ipshita tells her that she has asked Parth to choose either her or Teni. Teni gets emotionally overwhelmed thinking about the promises that she had made to Shorvari and all the good times that she had shared with the family. Mohini overhears this and Teni spots her overhearing their conversation.
 
 Teni tells Ipshita that she isn't interested in her father and scolds her for being a spoilt child. Mohini gives an earful to Teni for misbehaving with a child and takes Ipshita away.
 
 The scene shifts, Ammi and Indu are seen making arrangements for the wedding. Teni joins them and she tells Ammi that she wants peace of mind and for that, she needs to get away. She then asks for a hair dryer and when Parth gets her one she tries to pass him by without interacting with him. Her hair gets stuck in his shirt's button and they share a moment.
 
 Back in her room, Teni is seen mulling over who to pick out of the two, Parth or Iqbal. She wonders how she could convey it to Parth that it is very difficult for her to make the selection.
 
