GANDHINAGAR: Four-term   in   and incumbent chief whip of   party in the state assembly   (42) has been appointed the new president of the   Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC).

 Chavda, a chemical engineer, is the grandson of veteran Congress leader late Ishwarsinh Chavda and a maternal cousin of Bharatsinh Solanki. Ishwarsinh Chavda was father-in-law of Solanki’s father and former Gujarat chief minister Madhavsinh Solanki.
 
  After appointment of Paresh Dhanani (42) as the leader of opposition in the state assembly and Chavda’s elevation as GPCC chief, it has become clear that the All India Congress president Rahul Gandhi wants the young brigade to take lead.
 
 According to political pundits, the Congress has played a balancing act by picking Dhanani, a Patidar, as the leader of opposition and Chavda, an OBC, as the state party chief. “Support of these two communities is crucial for the party in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The Congress has tried to keep a balance between the two,” said a senior political analyst.
 
 Chavda had started his career with the Youth Congress and won his first political battle in 2004 by winning the by-election in Anklav. Since then, he has been representing the constituency.
 
 Though Chavda is yet to fully explore other parts of Gujarat as a politician, the youngest president of the GPCC will certainly get the benefits of his family’s deep Congress roots. Chavda is known as a soft-spoken person and an effective speaker with good organizational skills. His grasp on village-level politics is going to help the party in upcoming polls.
 
 Chavda runs several education trusts and has varied interest in agricultural and business activities.
 
 Reacting to his appointment, Chavda said, “I am thankful to Rahulji and the party for considering me for this responsibility. Pareshbhai Dhanani is the youngest leader of opposition and I have also been given this responsibility at a young age. Rahulji and I invite youth of Gujarat to join the Congress.”
 
 “My priorities as the state party president will be to further strengthen the party’s position in the Lok Sabha elections and expand the party’s base. I will work with the support of all the senior leaders,” he added.
 
 Bharatsinh Solanki has been relieved from the post of the party chief in Gujarat.
 
 
