, the music video by Bijibal and team recently introduced a new face to Malayalis, with many predicting a promising future for its female protagonist. However, Parvathy Menon is not an aspiring actor but a professional bharatanatyam artiste, who has amazed the dance enthusiasts across the world with her husband Shijith Nambiar. 
Sitting on the swing at her home near Changampuzha Park, Kochi, Parvathy introduces herself as “a bharatanatyam dancer who mastered the art from Chennai Kalakshetra”. “Born and brought up in Kuwait, I was keen to watch dance and follow the steps since childhood. My grandparents used to sent us the videos of Soorya fest. All that I wanted to do at that young age was watch them, not cartoons.”
 
 At the tender age of three, Parvathy started learning dance. “It was my mother’s dream that I should go to Kalakshetra. While everybody was busy preparing and discussing what to pursue after Class 12, I took up lighter subjects such as humanities and history as I knew that I am born to dance. After Class 12, I joined Kalakshetra. I never thought I will become a professional artiste; that just happened while I loved and learned my passion,” she says. 
 
  
  
 
 Parvathy also met her husband Shijith at the dance school. “I think it is only because I got married to him, I am still performing,” she says, adding that it was her life at the dance school that made her understand the true meaning of dancing. “I realised that what I have learned till then was nothing. I lived and learned dance for the next six years by observing the performances of great stalwarts and interacting with them. Those were the best and enlightening days of my life,” she says.
 
 When Parvathy had joined Kalakshetra, Shijith was a final year student of post-graduation at the institute. “We somehow connected as people, and things just fell into place. We got married while I was doing my post-graduation. Once I completed my course, we started performing together,” she says. The duo, who are the recipients of The Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar awarded by the Sangeet Natak Akademy, India, has been travelling across the world for performances since 2006. “We aim to introduce the viewers about the spiritual power of bharatanatyam. Together we are trying to explore its intricacies and want to pursue the dialogue of cultures in bharatanatyam,” Parvathy says.
 
 Initially when Parvathy joined the already established solo artiste Shijith on stage, it was difficult to sync with him, divulges the dancer. “A certain harmony is necessary in a regular bharatanatyam recital, while performing a duet. Only then, it will appeal to the rasika. We practised hard and soon found that harmony,” she says. And it took their tryst with dancing to the next level. “Now, it is difficult for us to perform without each other. We are happier sharing the stage than when we perform solo or with a group.”
 
  
  
 
 The chemistry of Shijith and Parvathy is often compared with the dancing duo Dhananjayans. Parvathy says the chemistry cannot be built but it has to come naturally. “For us, it happened. As artistes, one should be able to produce the same feeling, especially when it comes to dance dramas in which they portray different roles.”
 
 The duo is known for their bharatanatyam repertoire (margam) performances. “We also choreograph thematic performances. There is enough scope to improvise in the traditional bharatanatyam margam or even in a thematic presentation,” Parvathy says, adding that more than precision and coordination, dance is about being able to touch the rasika’s soul with a performance. “It is not necessary to dilute the art form for a contemporary appeal.”
 
 
  
  
 The places they have performed include Europe and USA. Parvathy says the respect the audience have for our art forms is beyond words. “We have students too from countries like Russia, Europe and Germany. Their inquisitiveness is amazing. Sometimes when we perform our repertoire in Europe, for example if it is one of Swathi Thirunal’s padam, they might not even understand the meaning of it, hence we give them an introduction. We tend to think that they find it tough to comprehend and appreciate. But that’s not true. Most of the times post the performance, they come and tell us, ‘I had tears in my eyes, you have touched my heart and so on’. We feel so happy that they are able to connect with us merely through our bhavas and movements,” she says. 
 
 
 In the US, majority of the audience are Indians, she adds. Here in Kerala, they have performed for fests like Soorya, Dharani and Nishagandhi. According to her, people in Kerala have a laid-back attitude towards art. “Malayalis are really talented. I realised it as I had students and classmates from all round the world and they have always stood out. But they lack the fervour to pursue it,” she says, adding that all they want is learn it quickly rather than perfectly. 
 
  
  
 Regarding the music video Charulatha, filmed by   and composed by Sudeep Palanad, Parvathy says she tried her best not to bring the dancer in her while enacting in it. “On stage when we do abhinaya, we exaggerate a lot, so that it will reach the audience. On camera, all we need is subtle acting. It was a challenge. In dance there are two sections, nritha (pure dance) and abhinaya. As a dancer, I enjoy more doing abhinaya pieces,” she says. So do you have any acting plans? “I have never planned anything in my life so far. I go with the flow. Let’s see where the flow takes me,” she sums up.
 
