Chandigarh: Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa joined the opposition parties in claiming that the “army of advisers and officers of special duty (OSDs)” appointed by chief minister Amarinder Singh were not required and burdened the state exchequer.

 Speaking at a debate organized by a television channel, Bajwa said except a retired Lt Gen (T S Shergill), none of the advisers were worthy of advising the CM and he should immediately disband them. “I don’t think he (Amarinder) needs advice from anybody. He needs none,” he said.
 
 Earlier, the issue was raised by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Bhagwant Mann, who too was present at the debate and Bajwa endorsed it. Mann said some of the advisers even had cabinet ranks. Reacting to it, AAP’s leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira said he too was of the opinion that the advisers were a burden on the state exchequer at a time when there was a financial crisis. “There are 16 advisers, OSDs and secretaries in the CM office who are drawing hefty salaries,” he said.
 
 Bajwa said he had been reminding the Congress government in the state of its promise to take action against leaders of the previous SAD-BJP regime as was promised in the run up to the assembly elections. “There are still four years left and I’m sure the state government will fulfill its promises. I have put across the point to the CM and party president Sunil Jakhar to bring a white paper on the acts of omission during the previous regime. I said the manifesto should be implemented,” he said.
 
 He expressed appreciation for certain initiatives taken by the state government for the farmers despite financial constraints.
 
 Box: Was offered deputy CM’s post by Congress, AAP, says Sidhu
 
 Local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad had offered him the post of deputy CM in presence of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra but he declined the offer. “I said I want to work for welfare of Punjab. Are you willing to make me fight the election? They said yes,’ he said. Earlier, he said during his negotiations with AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, the latter said he should not contest the election and instead campaign for his party. “I had won back-to-back elections and when I refused his offer, he offered me deputy CM-ship. I asked him will you be the CM, he said we cannot reveal that name. I understood that he wanted to run Punjab with remote control from Delhi,” said Sidhu.
 
 
