While social media has made it easy for stars to connect with their fans, it has also unleashed a dark side. Television actor   is the latest celebrity to face the brunt of it. An   has been promising young girls roles in a ‘bold’ show with a leading production house. He also guarantees a meeting with Karan at a cost of ` 5,000. What is worse is that he has been getting them to part with their nude pictures in the actor’s name. A video of the actor has been uploaded on fake social media accounts.

 A friend brought this to Karan’s notice a few days ago, but before he could take stock of the situation, the actor was flooded with calls and messages about it. Talking to BT, the actor says, “I recognised that video. I shot for this man a few years ago, as it was his idea to bring in new talent in the industry through his acting institute. I thought it to be a noble idea as that would give aspiring actors a chance to get a foothold in the industry. 
 
 He adds, “However, I was shocked to learn that the impostor uploaded the video online and has created several WhatsApp profiles with my picture, giving out the impression that it’s me chatting with them. Since then, I have been receiving messages and posts from across the country, informing me about paying to meet me. At first, I thought someone was pulling a prank. When I realised the gravity of this situation, I posted a message to warn my fans about this fraud. What triggered my anger was the fact that he was asking girls to send their nude pictures, promising them roles in a bold show. I can take any bullsh*t, but not this. A woman’s integrity can’t be harmed and I won’t leave him for this. I am in touch with my lawyers for an appropriate legal action against him.”
 
 The actor admits that he should have done a thorough check on the guy before shooting the video for him. He affirms, “I haven’t met this impostor in person. It was my biggest mistake to shoot the promotional byte without doing a thorough background check. I want to tell my peers to be careful about such frauds.”
 
