GOLD COAST:   sports a small pair of earrings in the shape of the Olympic rings. They remind her, she says, of the traumatic times at the Rio Games. Maybe, you never know, they also whisper tiny messages into her ear reminding her to keep targeting the elusive medal in two year’s time in Tokyo.

 
 
 
 
 But for now, Mirabai is simply in storming back mode. Leaving behind depression that she had had to battle following her 2016 Olympics disappointment, the 23-year-old emerged as the most powerful woman in the   when she swept the Games records in snatch (86kg), clean and jerk (110) and total (196kg) in the 48kg category here on Thursday.
 
 
  
 
 
 “From last night I was waiting for this moment,” Mirabai was telling us later. “I was telling myself that tomorrow is your day and you should make best use of it,” she added with a glint in her eye.
 
 While those in the Carrara Sports Arena were swept away by the Indian’s emphatic performance, Mirabai was only extending her run on the lifting podium – only last year she won the World Championships in the US and on Thursday, she was literally blowing the competition away with 103 kg on the bar in clean and jerk.
 
  
  
 
 Till Mirabai entered the scene, the best effort was from Marie Ranaivosoa of Mauritius, who had lifted 94 kgs with great difficulty on her third attempt.
 
 In the next four minutes, the weight on the bar went up to 110 kg but Mirabai passed the test with ease even as the barbell began to bend a bit on either side. The hundreds of spectators, mostly Australians, were awestruck by the special show and gave her a thundering ovation.
 
 While Ranaivosoa took silver with a 170kg total, Sri Lana’s Dinusha Gomes took the bronze with a distant 155kg.
 
 In between, Canada’s Amanda Braddock spoiled her day failing to lift 93 kg in all her clean and jerk attempts. Till then, the Canadian was in contention for silver after lifting 76 kgs in snatch.
 
  
  
 
 “It is my own record and I came here thinking of breaking those,’ she said of the 194 kg (85, 109 kgs) she lifted for her world championship title last year. “So now I have won the gold and also broke the record, so I’m very happy,” she added, breaking into a grin.
 
 “I have been training in Melbourne since March and I have achieved my goal. My next target is the Asian Games and there it is going to be even tougher to win the gold,” Mirabai added.
 
 On the competition she faced here, Mirabai was forthcoming: “Yes, the competition was not that great. But I was determined to give my best.”
 
 “I think the Asian Games is the toughest as we have competitors from China, Thailand and Korea. But now that I’m high on confidence I think I won’t face much of a problem to win the gold in Asia too,” Chanu nodded.
 
 
 
 
 But it was such a different story only two years ago. After failing to record any lift in Rio, Mirabai almost called it a day. “I wanted to quit as it was my worst performance. I had gone in after putting in all the hard work but there I couldn’t do anything after I went in to win a medal.”
 
 “If I’m competing here today, it was due to the constant efforts of my mom, family members and my coach. It is because of their efforts that I pulled myself back,” she added.
 
 Thereafter, I won in the World Championships training under Vijay Sharma sir. And the earrings: “I started wearing them after the Rio Olympics,” she said with a beaming smile.
 
