BHUBANESWAR: The second phase of evaluation of Plus II answer sheets is set to begin on Monday and the agitating block grant teachers have threatened to boycott it as well. 

 The decision on Sunday comes after around 3,000 teachers from different non-government aided colleges stayed away from the evaluation process in the first phase.
 
 The teachers have been on strike since March 19 in protest against a government decision to insert a 'controversial' affidavit clause for availing grant-in aid.
 
 The boycott has hit the evaluation process and the government on Wednesday directed authorities of non-government aided colleges to take action against the truant teachers within seven days. However, the governing bodies of the colleges are yet to take any action.
 
 Balaram  , a governing body member of a non-government aided college, said they did not take action because the demand of the teachers to withdraw the 'affidavit clause' is genuine.
 
 The clause makes it mandatory for block grant teachers to sign an affidavit which states that they will never stage a protest against the government or approach the courts regarding their grievances if they are considered for full grant-in aid.
 
 "The government cannot prohibit anyone from going to the court of law or protest against it. This would be a violation of their democratic rights," Sahu said
 
 For the second phase of evaluation, the government has appointed around 2,000 teachers including 1,000 block grant teachers. School and mass education minister   assured students and parents that the evaluation of answer sheets is going on smoothly and the results will be announced on time.
 
 "I request students and parents not to worry because the evaluation process is going on smoothly and we are trying our best to announce the results on time," said Patra.
 
 Sources in the   (CHSE) said the first phase saw around 70% teachers attending the evaluation process. "We are very hopeful that we will complete the evaluation by April 28 and the results will be declared on time," said deputy controller of examination, CHSE, Prabodh Panda.
 
 Reacting to the decision to add more teachers to complete the evaluation process, Pabitra Mahala, convenor of   School College Teachers and Employees United Forum, said, "The government has been making false claims and also misleading the people. On one hand, they are giving wrong information that block grant teachers have not been appointed for evaluation work, while on the other many of the block grant teachers have been asked to join the process."
 
 
