Mangaluru: Three-time corporator K  , 55, from the Congress was   as the   of Mangaluru on Thursday.

 Mysuru regional commissioner Shivayogi C Kalasad conducted the election to the Mayor’s post at the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council hall. Moily, who represents ward number 36 (Padavu), is a senior Congress leader with nearly 33 years of experience as a politician. He had also served as a standing committee chairman of the MCC Council. 
 
 Mohammed Kunjathbail from the Congress, who represents ward number 13 (Kunjathbail), has been elected as the deputy mayor.
 
 While the council has 60 elected corporators, the Congress has a strength of 35 elected representatives, while the BJP has 20. The JD(S) has two corporators in the council and the SDPI has one representative, while one of the corporators is an independent. MLAs representing Mangaluru City South J R Lobo and Mangaluru City North B A Mohiuddin Bava as well as MLCs Ivan D’Souza and Ganesh Karnik and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel too have a right to vote in the mayoral  . While Lobo and Ivan participated in the election, Bava, Karnik and Kateel were absent. 
 
 The BJP fielded Surendra, who is the corporator of ward number 54, for the post of mayor, as their candidate. While Moily secured 37 votes, Surendra bagged 19 votes. In the election to the deputy mayor’s post, Mohammed bagged 37 votes while his rival Meera Karkera secured 19 votes. Five corporators including two from the JD(S) and one each from the CPM, SDPI and an independent representative, remained neutral, though they were present during the special meet. 
 
 The special meet unanimously elected seven members each for the four standing committees – accounts, finance, health and works. 
 
 Last minute political drama
 
 Though the election process was supposed to begin at 11am, the ruling Congress had not finalized the name of the candidate till 9am. Though there were many aspirants for the mayor’s post in the Congress, there was a tough contest between Bhaskar Moily, who is a relative of former Union Minister M Veerappa Moily, and two Muslim corporators. Mohammed Kunjathbail and Abdul Rouf (ward number 47) were the other two strong contenders for the mayor’s post from the Congress. 
 
 However, a meeting of Congress corporators held at 6.30am on Thursday, finalized the names of Mohammed and Moily for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor respectively, just two hours prior to the election. 
 
 Sources in the Congress said a section of party leaders and corporators argued strongly to reserve the post of mayor for a minority candidate. However, party leaders including district minister B Ramanath Rai, MLC Ivan D’Souza, MLA J R Lobo, B A Mohiuddin Bava and District Congress Committee president K Harish Kumar finally succeeded in arriving at an amicable solution. 
 
 
