Nagpur: Nagpur University administration came under fire from the Senate members for abject failure to recover dues worth over Rs 1 crore from evaluators. The issue first exposed by TOI on August 9 last year citing senior lecturer Pramod Lakhe, from whom NU recovered a whopping amount of Rs 59.14 lakh. He had taken this amount towards advance for examination work, as an in-charge of ‘spot valuation centre’ for over five years. It was only after NU issued ultimatum to Lakhe and others, they were forced to return the huge amounts. The issue was first raised by Pradeep Bute while quoting audit reports, questioning NU on how it was unaware about such big amount being kept by the teachers with themselves for nearly six years and why it wasn’t recovered. The report by chartered accountancy firm — Ratan Chandak and Company — mentioned that NU had paid an excess amount of Rs 1.29 crore to the evaluators. Of this amount, Rs 1.01 crore was recovered while Rs 27.58 lakh were yet to be recovered from Lakhe, who failed to refund that.  Finance and accounts officer (FAO) Raju Hiwase clarified that recovery action was started as soon as audit reports had pointed out about the flaw. Unsatisfied with his reply, the members demanded immediate action against the concerned NU officials and evaluators as well, for causing losses to the NU. It was only after Pro-VC Pramod Yeole explained the house about entire procedure on how exam advance was granted and excess amount was recovered that members relented. He said NU had constituted a special committee for looking into the matter. Even the auditors were told that this panel would take action and submit report to them, which was still awaited. “We have demanded bank accounts statements of all these teachers and would also recover interest from them for keeping NU money for such a long time,” Yeole said. He had made same statement to TOI about six months back, but nothing progressed till date.  In a series of reports, TOI brought to fore on how NU failed to recover Rs 35 crore excess funds paid to the lecturers till date, who worked for the examination section and also from the colleges, designated as exam centres for about six years from 2011. The actual amount was over Rs 65 crore, but NU managed to recover about Rs 30 crore in last couple of years after auditors pointed out recovery. The newspaper also raised the issue of recovery of interest received by lecturers on keeping huge amounts with them for nearly six years. Subsequently, the administration of Vasantrao Naik Government Arts and Social Sciences (VNGASS) Institute (formerly Morris College) sought explanation from him Lakhe.