CHENNAI: As hospitals prepare to create awareness for early diagnosis and treatment on World   Day-eve, a study has shown at least two of every five people in the city believe cancer is contagious and that stress/surgeries can aggravate it.

 In November, ESOINDIA, which creates awareness campaigns on oesophageal and stomach cancers, surveyed more than 1,000 people across the city, giving them a 20-point questionnaire prepared by undergraduate medical students Apsara Chandramohan and  . “The purpose was to understand how far some people understand stomach cancer and how some others are left behind,” said Varadarajan, who will present results of the study at an international conference in South Korea in April. 
 
 Stomach cancer is the most common cancer among men in Chennai with an incidence of 6.7 per 100,000 population followed by lung (5.8), mouth (5.5), large bowel (4.4) and tongue (3.9), according to the Madras Metropolitan Tumour registry. Among women, incidence of stomach cancer is 3.2 per 100,000 – the fifth most common after breast (24), cervix (20), ovary (4.5) and mouth (3.6). “The cumulative risk of being diagnosed with cancer for people in TN is one in 12. Women have a higher risk of getting cancer compared to men,” said Cancer Institute head of epidemiology R Swaminathan. 
 
 The survey found some people had very high knowledge of the disease. Nearly half of those surveyed knew individuals infected with   (H. pylori) a spiral-shaped bacterium that grows in the stomach’s mucus layer are at risk for stomach cancer. Nearly two-thirds rightly said high salt intake and reheated cooking oil were risk factors for stomach cancer. However, only one in ten knew about incidence of cancer, genetic risks and treatment options. “We have a long way to go. We were surprised when many told us smoking 10 cigarettes a day for 10 years is not a risk for stomach cancer,” said Chandramohan, a Madras Medical College student.
 
 Senior doctors too were worried that people were unaware of the need for fruit and vegetable intake and association of high red meat intake with stomach cancer. “Many still don’t know cancer is a non-communicable disease though they wrongly think high stress is a cause,” said senior surgical gasteroentologist Dr S M Chandramohan. 
 
 
