CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh district court on Wednesday acquitted seven people who were accused in the 2016 PU  . The court of additional district and sessions judge, R K Sharma, acquitted seven persons, after the complainant and two other witnesses turned hostile. Prosecution failed to prove the charges against the accused leading to their acquittal. An accused namely Harinder Singh alias   has been declared proclaimed offender in this matter. The seven accused who are accquitted are identified as Resham Singh Godra, Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi, Amrik Singh alias Vicky, Mandar Singh alias Kabal Singh, Randeep Singh alias Khorde, Satwinder Singh alias Naval and Susham Nonia.

 
  
 
 The court acquitted them under charges of sections 307 (attempt to murder), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object).   who was also charged with Section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act was also acquitted from this charge,
 
 The matter dates back to April 9, 2016, when they all were booked by police. It was mentioned that on April 8, 2016 all the accused along with Rinda alias Harinder Singh entered law auditorium of Panjab University (PU) where the complainant Manpreet Singh, campus president of Student Organisation of India (SOI), along with his friends Buland Singh Sekhon, Jashandeep and Sanju had gone to watch a fashion show. But all the accused allegedly started creating nuisance to which Manpreet Singh objected. In a fit of anger, all the accused allegedly assaulted Manpreet Singh and three others using deadly weapons like fire arms, iron rods, baseball and bat, which caused major injuries to the complainant and his friends.
 
 During the trial in court, the complainants including Manpreet and Jashandeep turned hostile and did not support the prosecution theory. On Wednesday, Resham Godra also was declared hostile as he failed to identify the accused. Defense counsel stated that the complainants could not identify the accused in the court mentioning that since there was a lot of rush when the incident took place, they were not sure of who all were actually involved in the incident. While regarding the Arms Act charges against Godara, the prosecution could not recover any weapon from which the bullets were allegedly shot. Police had recovered bullet shells from the spot, but the CFSL expert recorded in the court that they could not ascertain the weapon from which the bullets were shot.
 
 
