Pune: A 24-year-old software engineer, Bhargav Gattupalli, drowned in the swimming pool of a swanky sports club in Wakad on Friday morning. Originally hailing from Guntur in Andhra Pradesh, Bhargav was working in an IT firm in Hinjewadi. The Wakad police have filed a case against the club’s management for negligence. Bhargav’s father Satyanarayana, in his complaint to the police on Saturday, alleged that his son died because of negligence on part of the management of Silver Sports Club. The complaint stated that there were no lifeguards and safety equipment present at the swimming pool.  The club, which is located among several high-end housing societies in a lane off Wakad-Hinjewadi road, was opened nearly six months ago. Besides the swimming pool, it has a gym and a café. Nets to practice cricket were installed recently opposite the main complex. Following the filing of the case, its owners shut down the club, security personnel present at the site said. “I do not know when the club will reopen. The owners locked the club in the morning, and it will probably remain shut tomorrow as well,” one of the security guards said. Club members — who came to the complex for a session at the gymnasium and the swimming pool, and were turned away — were seemingly unaware of the drowning incident.  “I use the gym, but I have rarely seen lifeguards at the pool. I was not present when the incident took place, but I do not see lifeguards or other safety equipment like tubes,” said K Rahul, a member of the club. However, Sanat Das, a Hinjewadi resident, said , “I come here for a swim and I think it is very safe. Lifeguards are generally present, and there is a barrier between the shallower and the deeper parts of the pool.” The swimming pool is four to twelve feet deep and the deeper section is accessible only to those who are trained in swimming. Senior inspector Satish Mane said, “It is not known how Bhargav drowned as no one saw him going down in the water.”  Assistant police inspector SS Gholwe, who is investigating the case, said, “We need to find the circumstances of the incident, as in how he drowned and what were the safety measures at the pool.” 