VADODARA: Close to 69 % land required for the ambitious   bullet train project in Vadodara district is privately owned.

 The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited ( ) which is implementing the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Railway Project will have to acquire a total of 162.45 hectares land in 34 villages of Vadodara district.
 
 In other words, the total land that the government needs to acquire just in Vadodara district is more than half of what it will acquire in neighbouring Maharashtra state where the project requires acquisition of 246.42 hectares land for tracks and stations. Although Vadodara is one of the eight districts of   in which land will be acquired, in actual terms 26 % of the total 612.19 hectares to be acquired in the state falls in this district. 
 
 Sources in  , the Delhi-based design and consultancy firm, which has been hired as consultants for the project, suggest that a total of 1,548 households will be affected due to the project while 354 structures including ‘pucca’, semi pucca and ‘kutcha’ will be impacted because of the project. 
 
 A majority of project affected households (PAHs) that will be affected are dependent on service sector – 543 PAHs - followed by agriculture – 494 PAHs as primary source of income while 173 are women headed households. 
 
 The challenge before the NHSRCL is to convince the private players to agree to the compensation package which will be based on the market value of the land decided by the district collector. The entitlement matrix which is reflected in the presentation prepared by   suggests that the land will be acquired on payment of compensation as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (RFCTLARR) Act 2013. 
 
 Accordingly, for any loss of land, market value will be decided as per the India Stamp Act 1899 for the registration of sale deed or agreement to sell in the area where the land is situated or average sale price of similar types of land situated in the nearest vicinity area (ascertained from the highest 50 % of the sale deeds of the proceeding three years) or consented amounts paid for public private partnerships or private companies whichever is higher. 
 
 This apart, those losing land will also get 100 % solatium and 12 % interest from the date of notification and multiplication factor (one in urban areas and two in rural areas) will also be taken into consideration. 
 
 The rehabilitation and resettlement amount will be 50 % of the amount of compensation for land which will be determined under section 27 of the RFCTLARR (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2016. 
 
 Also, the stamp duty and other fees payable for registration of the land or house purchased by the affected families will be reimbursed by NHSRCL based on documentary evidence. 
 
 NHSRCL will pay one time additional assistance to the affected land owner family based on the percentage of the land area acquired from each partially acquired land plot. 
 
 The project affected families will get onetime payment of Rs 5 lakh per affected family, subsistence allowance of Rs 3,500 per month for a period of one year (Rs 42,000 in a year) and the stamp duty and other fees payable for registration of the land or the house purchased by the affected families which will be reimbursed by NHSRCL based on documents. 
 
 Similarly, entitlement matrix has been chalked out for those losing their temporary and permanent houses, tenants, for loss of employment, trees and crops, cattle shed or petty shops, vulnerable families while NHSRCL will be bearing the cost of providing training in relevant skills or vocational skills to one member from each affected family. 
 
 
