Ludhiana: A day after the Congress MLAs including Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sanjay Talwar decided to raise their voices against the decision of the local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu over non allotment of works in case of single tenders, the latter on Friday reiterated that he would not allow anyone to go against the rules. Sidhu said MLAs could approach the chief minister, Amarinder Singh over the issue, if they wished to, but these guidelines were framed by the Supreme Court and nobody is above law.

 It was in the meeting of district review and monitoring committee on Thursday that the officials blamed the objections raised by the chief vigilance officer appointed by the local bodies minister. They are forced to float the tenders again in case they receive asingle company which the MLAs openly opposed. The MLAs claimed that they will talk to the minister over this issue and will try to convince him that projects are getting delayed. In case the minister will not listen then they will approach the CM Captain Amarinder Singh to look into the matter. 
 
 Sidhu, while talking over the phone, said, “These rules are not mine but these are Supreme Court guidelines and even the Advocate general of Punjab, Atul Nanda has given in writing in the Punjab and Haryana high court that single tenders are not allowed.” 
 
 Sidhu added these rules say tenders can be allotted to the single bidder only in case of emergency work. He said he suspended six officers and also wrote for action against three IAS officers only for this reason because these officers were allegedly involved in allotting the work to their favourites. 
 
 Sidhu also said that MLAs can contact the CM anytime but in case the rules are framed by Supreme Court then even the chief minister is helpless. 
 
 To be taken as box: MLAs against advt and parking policy framed by local bodies department 
 
 The MLAs also raised the objections to the recently notified policies by local bodies department under the directions of Sidhu by saying that in the MC general house, both of the policies will be challenged and government will be asked to amend these policies. The MLAs said advertisement policy will reduce the revenue of department and parking policy is not going to be implemented in city. However Sidhu reacting over the same said that policies have been notified and he will not spare anybody. 
 
 
