MUMBAI: Maharashtra’s   added another feather in her already colourful cap by becoming the youngest woman to become an  .

 
 The 29-year-old, who is in charge of AIFF’s grassroots development, participated in the course which was held in Thimpu, Bhutan from December 18-January 13, but got the result on Friday. With this degree, she is qualified to coach any of the top teams in the country, but says she would rather work at the grassroots level as it’s the most important stage in development of football in the country.
 
 “As a grassroots instructor of  , my job is to coach coaches. As part of the AFC A license course, I learnt what it takes to run a professional club and what it takes to be a player at the highest level. I use that perspective to try and teach the coaches better. Grassroots are the foundations of football so if we get that correct, our country will be able to produce world-class players,” she told TOI.
 
 She didn’t always dream of being a coach though. She was just a young girl from Bekanal, a farming village in Kolhapur, who just wanted to play football. Against her parents’ wishes, mind you. They detested the idea of their daughter wanting to become a footballer. They wanted her to help them with work on the farm instead. She ran away though and carved her own destiny, so to say.
 
 Coming to Mumbai, she played for a local club and was soon selected to represent the state team. Her performances were recognised and she went on to captain the side on several occasions too. She however realised that she could not play forever and decided that to stay in touch with the game, she had to take up coaching.
 
 “I always had a dream to play for my country but due to some circumstances in life I had to start working for livelihood. At a time when I was working and playing for the state and local level, I realised that if I could not continue playing, I needed to focus more on coaching. The transformation happened and I started to enjoy it. I travelled to The Netherlands in 2010 for the   and it proved to be my turning point,” she said.
 
 Since then, she has coached a number of men’s and women’s teams in Mumbai and then went on join the AIFF in the grassroots development division. In a span of three years, she was leading the programme. Since then, she’s travelled the length and breadth of the country, interacting with children and more importantly, coaching the coaches.
 
 “I feel like I'm living a dream. When I started coaching, I never imagined it would be so much fun,” she said.
 
 AIFF general secretary Kushal Das was all praise for her.
 
 “Anju has been with the AIFF for quite some time driving the grassroots program including organising festivals for Mission Xi million, the school contact program leading up to the   U17 World Cup. She is extremely dedicated and AIFF was always there to support her ambition to become an A licensed coach,” he told TOI.
 
