KOCHI: The press conference held by four senior   judges against the Chief Justice of India has left the lawyer community in   divided. 

 While some termed the move heroic, others were of the opinion that it diminished the value of an esteemed institution among the public. Here are some excerpts from TOI's interaction with lawyers:
 
 Senior high court lawyer   referred to a quote from justice VR Krishna Iyer that said, "One day the people of this country will rise and say that we don't want this magnificent red stone edifice on the   because it is seen to be counterproductive and in turn the High Courts." Don't lead people to that situation, Sahasranaman tweeted.
 
 Talking to TOI later, Sahasranam said, "Do you think these judges would hold a press conference unless there is some valid reason? Such a thing has happened in Kerala too when justice JL Gupta was the chief justice. A case related to a medical college was assigned out of order to a judge. Bar association then protested saying it is unprecedented and passed a resolution against it. If there is something with the judiciary, it has to be pointed out. What they (judges) have done is that they have pointed out something. They wanted the matter to reach the people that something bad is happening in Supreme Court."
 
 Senior lawyer CC   agrees. "Both the factions can't be blamed. The judges cannot be blamed for talking to the people because the conduct of the CJI for some days has not been proper. Assignment of cases has not been impartial and one can notice prejudice in it. So, the judges have come to the people as they have no other option. Otherwise, they would be blamed tomorrow," he said.
 
 However, advocate VB Sujesh Menon disagreed and said sitting judges conducting a press conference was in bad taste.
 
 People in every institution will be nursing grievance against their superiors. You should not come to public and discuss such things. If there is an internal remedy, you should adopt it. Otherwise, you should resign and show your dissent. You cannot stay in such an institution and then go public about the ego clashes. If there is something else, they should have told it. No such thing has been stated in the letter. As per the letter, the grievance is essentially against a judgment. If a layman has grievance against a judgment, what is he supposed to do? Does the Supreme Court judge have a superior right? Stopping the sitting and going out to hold a press conference is similar to what justice Karnan did. Actually, it is an interference in the administration of justice. A chief judicial magistrate has administrative control over all the magistrates in the area. Where will we reach if a magistrate conducts a press conference against the CJM tomorrow?
 
 
