LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   has effected a mass transfer of officers, shifting as many as 37   and 43 IPS officers in a span of three days since the results of byelections to Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha seats, with BJP losing both. Shamli superintendent of police Ajay Pal Sharma has been promoted and appointed as Gautam Budh Nagar SSP while Etawah police chief Vaibhav Krishna has been appointed as Ghaziabad SSP in place of H N Singh. 

 Love Kumar, till now police chief in Noida, has been appointed as DIG (prisons), following promotion.
 
 The chief minister ordered the transfer of 37 officers—16 of them district magistrates, including of his home district Gorakhpur—late on Friday. Sources said that while Ballia district magistrate was removed following demand from two party MLAs, the Mandi Parishad director was shifted on the recommendation of the department’s minister. The chief minister is learnt to have reprimanded senior officers of his office and other departments and asked them to set up a mechanism to swiftly dispose complaints from the public and also of party workers.
 
 Sources said a top officer of the state mining department was reprimanded by Yogi, for the exorbitant rise in cost of construction material in the state. He directed the department to work towards bringing down the price of construction material, as construction activity has come to a virtual standstill in the state owing to price escalation of material, resulting in joblessness among labourers.
 
 The chief minister is also learnt to have warned a senior officer of the housing department as there were reports of the prime minister housing scheme not wielding results.
 
 Ajay Pal Sharma (33), the new SSP of Gautam Budh Nagar, a 2011-batch IPS officer, is considered as a smart cop who had checked crimes in Shamli. He successfully led his team that killed some notorious criminals involved in murder and extortion in the area.
 
 In February, DGP OP Singh visited Meerut and held a meeting with senior police officers of the Meerut zone. In the programme he quipped and asked Sharma, then Shamli SP, if his day went without any shootout. “Aaj koi encounter to nahi kiya (No encounter today?),” Singh had asked him in a lighter vein. Sharma has also received appreciation from CM Yogi Adityanath in the past. An original resident of Ludhiana in Punjab, he holds a degree of Bachelor in Dental Surgery (BDS). He served as the SP (city) of Ghaziabad towards the end of the Samajwadi Party government.
 
 Ghaziabad’s new SSP Vaibhav Krishna, an alumnus of IIT-Roorkee, was in news in 2016 during the infamous Bulandshahr highway gang-rape case when he was the SSP of the district. The Akhilesh Yadav government had suspended Krishna in a knee-jerk reaction following the gang rape that led to much furore.
 
 H N Singh, meanwhile, has been transferred to Moradabad as commandant of a PAC battalion.
 
 
