AHMEDABAD: India’s most wanted and the alleged founder member of the terror organization Indian Mujahideen, Abdul Subhan   alias Kasim, alias Zakir alias Tauqeer, 46, was nabbed by Delhi Special Cell on Sunday, after a shootout on the outskirts of Delhi, days ahead of Republic Day.

 Qureshi, a resident of Byculla in Mumbai and a native of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, is allegedly the key conspirator of the July 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts, which killed more than 56 people and injured 200. “His arrest is considered important as while on the run, he sneaked into Pakistan via Nepal thrice and returned. He could be having plans for more terror attacks” added a crime branch official.
 
 City crime branch officials, who are in contact with their Delhi counterparts, said Qureshi, who was hiding in the capital, fired three rounds at the police team from a revolver. He was overpowered and arrested.
 
 Qureshi, who had been on the run for about ten years, allegedly sneaked into Pakistan via Nepal thrice and returned. “We suspect that he was regrouping terror organization and was planning more terror attacks in the county. We have information that Subhan, before carrying out the serial blasts in Ahmedabad, had recced the offices of   Rakesh Shah and senate member Deepak Shah of Vadodara,” said a top crime branch official.
 
 According to crime branch sources, Qureshi first came to Ahmedabad in 2003-04 and lived at a rented house in Vatva. He would allegedly deliver jihadist speeches to recruit youths into terrorism. “Qureshi was allegedly present at the terror camps in the jungles of Wagamon in Kerala and Halol in  ,” added a crime branch official. 
 
 “Qureshi is believed to be in direct contact with Riyaz and Iqbal Bhatkal, who are allegedly based in Pakistan, and with another serial blasts accused, Kayamuddin Kapadia, had planned bomb blasts in Vadodara and Surat. The bombs planted in Surat did not explode due to a technical snag,” said additional deputy superintendent of police, Rajdeepsinh Zala. Qureshi an industrial electric engineer and expert bomb maker. 
 
 He also stayed at a rented house in the Danilimda area of the city, where the bombs which were planted at 21 spots in Ahmedabad were made.
 
 “He was instrumental in identifying the sites were the bombs were placed and fled with Alamzeb Afridi and Kayamuddin Kapadia to Jabalpur, hours before the bombs went off in the city. He had also taken shelter in  , with one Habib Raza. Raza was later arrested by crime branch,” added a senior crime branch official.
 
 
