CHANDIGARH: Just 8% of traffic rule offenders sent challans on addresses mentioned in their vehicle registration papers paid penalties in the last year, a huge blow for the police trying to punish violators through the use of   cameras and   pages.

 The police sent 30,000 challans, called   ( ), to drivers caught on camera violating traffic rules from January till December 2017, but only 2,400 bothered to pay the fine.
 
  
  
 
 Most of the traffic violation fines were issued for offences like jumping red light, blocking the zebra crossing, and talking over phone. A majority of the violations were caught on police cameras, but a few of the challans were issued for cases brought to the notice of the police by locals who uploaded images on the police’s Facebook page or on WhatsApp number.
 One of the reasons for low rates of payment of fines, according to police, could be lack of updated addresses on the vehicle registration certificates. In most cases, people caught on camera violating traffic rules had probably shifted from their old addresses to new ones. Once issued, the traffic violation challans are sent by post to addresses mentioned on the registration certificates, meaning most of the offenders do not get challan slips. Another factor could be that people living on the outskirts of the city get their vehicles registered on their old addresses in Chandigarh, police said.
 
 “The UT administration has installed CCTVs in the city worth crores of rupees. After scrutinising the footage, traffic cops send challans for rule violations. However, the offenders simply ignore them. This will not be accepted now,”  , UT   (traffic), said.
 
 “The police will send the violators a second reminder to pay the challans and after that they will be forwarded to the local court and the violators will receive summons from the court,” the SSP said.
 
 The police have already forwarded 8,000 challans to the courts for further action. The police have also requested the courts to organise special Lok Adalats twice a month to clear the pendency of such challans as thousands of them have not been cleared so far.
 
 Sanjay Thapliyal, a resident of  , said he had shifted from Chandigarh’s Sector 29 in 2014, but his car was still registered on his old Chandigarh address. Last year, when he had gone to get a police clearance certificate, he came to know that two challans had been generated for his vehicle in the interim. It was only after paying those challans, the cops gave me police clearance certificate, he added.
 
 COURTS THE NEXT STEP 
 The police forward   after verifying addresses of traffic rule violators and send a second reminder. Despite a second reminder, a majority of offenders don’t pay the fine. The police send challans to court and the court then sends them summons.
 
 On December 9, the police for the first time forwarded 210 TVIS challans to the court for action and 210 offenders appeared in the court and paid their pending challans.
 
 Not From Tricity, No Challan Letter
 
 The UT police generally do not send TVIS challans to motorists driving vehicles registered in other states. Challans are sent only to offenders in the Tricity.
 
 The police send cancellation of licences of traffic violators to registration and licensing authorities in other states when they find motorists breaking rules 
  
  
 
 
