PATNA: Improving education sector will be among the priorities for Atul Prakash, who has ranked fourth in the civil services examination conducted by the  , the results of which were announced on Friday evening.

 A resident of Buxar district in Bihar, Atul graduated in mathematics and computing from IIT-Delhi in 2016. He scored 94% to pass Class X from   in 2009 and 87% to pass Class XII from   in 2011. He had cracked JEE with AIR-759 in his first attempt in 2011 to make it to  .
 
 “Education is the main driving force behind the development of any nation. I want to improve the condition of government schools,” the 24-year-old told this reporter over the phone from Delhi on Saturday.
 
 Born to railway engineer Ashok Rai and homemaker Babita Rai, Atul also wants to work for his home town. “To prepare for the civil services examination, I joined a Delhi-based coaching institute when I was in the final year of engineering. I wrote the civil services exam with mathematics as an optional in 2016, ranked 558 and got railway services,” he said and added he improved the ranking to fourth in his second attempt in 2017.
 
 Atul’s younger sister Shrishti is also an engineering grad and works with a multinational firm in Bengaluru.
 
  Kumar, who has ranked 13th, left a lucrative job in a multinational company to prepare for the civil services examination in 2015. “I was inspired by my uncle who retired as a DIG of police,” said the 24-year-old who did BTech from IIT-BHU in 2015. 
 
 Sagar’s father Mihir Kumar Jha is a block cooperative officer and mother Savita Jha a homemaker. Sagar had joined a coaching institute in Delhi and his optional was also mathematics.
 
 “In my first two attempts, I couldn’t even clear prelims. But I never lost hope,” said Sagar, a native of Saharsa who was schooled in Ranchi and Dhanbad.
 
 Sagar wants to work for empowerment of women through education. His elder brother Suraj Kumar is also preparing for the civil services examination.
 
 Patna girl Abhilasha Abhinav has secured 18th rank, Motiur Rahman of Bhagalpur has finished 154th and Avinash from Motihari is ranked 391.
 
 
