GURUGRAM: Parents of over 200 students of Delhi Public School-Ghaziabad ( ), a private school in  , were left fuming at the school authorities on Thursday after they did not allow their wards to appear for their final exams over unpaid fees.

 The school said it did not allow 227 students from classes I to VIII to take their annual exams as their parents had failed to pay the dues, despite repeated reminders. However, it also said that the students from classes IX-XII were permitted to appear for their exams.
 
 In a letter to the district education office, the school said that it had sent notices to parents of 315 students for clearing dues. While parents of 38 students have paid the fees, the remaining 277 has not yet cleared the dues.
 
 Sanjay Kataria, whose both children study in DPSG, daughter in class 1 and son in class IV, said, “Both my wards were not allowed to give their final exams. The school principal doesn’t meet us. What are we going to do? The school has taken a stern step and now we don’t know what’s going to happen.”
 
 Mukesh Lohia, a parent whose two sons study in classes I and VII, respectively, said, “There is no one who listens to us. Officials say that they will take action against the school authorities but nothing happens. There is so much pressure on us, what will we do? Our kids are sitting at home, they know that they have not been allowed to give their exams. We don’t know what to do.”
 
 The school maintained that it would not allow students to take exams till the dues are cleared. “It is the parents’ responsibility as well to see that their children sit for the final exams. The parents should have taken care of paying the fees,” said principal Deepika Sharma. “Among the 277 parents who had not initially paid the fees, 30 came back and gave the fees. There were 20 odd students from kindergarten who didn’t have any exam,” she added.
 
 A meeting is going to take place between the district education officer, G Anupama, who is the divisional commissioner of Faridabad, Gurugram deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and the school principal on Friday. 
 
 The officials are part of a committee that was constituted this year to look into alleged arbitrary fee hike by DPSG Palam Vihar. 
 
 “The parents had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court and even the court had asked them to pay the school fees. I have allowed some students to give exams after their parents promised to pay the fee.”
 
 Sharma added, “If these parents pay the school fees, we might even take the exams again for their children. However, when it comes to this examination, I don’t feel a solution will come up as these parents have taken a position now. I don’t think that this 200-odd parents can’t pay the fees.”
 
 
 
