GURUGRAM: A 50-year-old woman, who quit her job at the India subsidiary of a multi-national FMCG company recently after working there for 19 years, has levelled   charges against the managing director (MD) and the HR head of the company’s research and development (R&D) wing in Gurugram.

 The former executive assistant to the MD, in her complaint to police, has alleged that she was physically and verbally abused by the two senior officials at the R&D centre located in IMT-Manesar earlier this year.
 
 She put in her resignation on March 23 and then approached Gurugram police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar a couple of days ago .
 
  Khirwar then forwarded the complaint to the women police station in Manesar, where an FIR has been filed under sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC against the two accused.
 
 The woman, who is originally from Dubai and currently lives in Delhi, had joined the company in 1999 and shifted to its R&D wing in IMT-Manesar in February 2017. She said she had gone to the MD’s office to hand over some documents when he allegedly passed lewd comments and touched her private parts, sometime in January. Shocked, she ran out of the cabin.
 
 “I was still in a state of shock after what had happened when, almost a week later, the HR head came to my office and repeated the act. I screamed (at him) and asked him to get out. I knew I could not carry on with my work there and thus left. I finally sent my resignation on March 23 and the HR head cleared it on March 31, without giving me a month’s notice,” she wrote in her complaint to police. “It was due to this harassment that I left my 19-year-old job. I don’t think I would ever be able to work again,” she added.
 
 When contacted, the HR head, one of the two accused, refused to comment, saying he was “not supposed to say anything (on the matter) due to my responsibilities”. 
 
 Inspector Poonam Singh, SHO, the women police station-Manesar, said an FIR had been filed based on the complaint and police were investigating the matter. “Action will be taken as per the law after verifying the facts,” Singh added.
 
 Despite an email and repeated calls, the company did not issue any official statement.
 
 
