BAREILLY:  , 52, a resident of   at   locality of Bareilly, has been running from pillar to post for the past one week to procure a PAN card which she requires to open a bank account. But this transgender woman is in a quandary. The PAN card application form, which can be downloaded from the Income Tax department’s website, does not have a ‘third gender’ option. 

 She has no choice but to select a ‘male’ or ‘female’ option even after going through medical examination to get a gender certificate.
  
  “I want to open a bank account for which I was asked to produce a PAN card. When I contacted a services centre to obtain a PAN card, I was told that only male and female can apply for it. I showed them my voter ID and   card on which my gender, ‘transgender’, is clearly imprinted but they were not satisfied with that. Then I obtained a gender certificate from the chief medical officer but all in vain. Notably, there is no option for third gender available on NSDL website for applying PAN card. I am completely fed up with the system which has failed to provide us space to live with our identity,” said Mohini, while narrating her ordeal to TOI. 
  
  The Finance Act 2017 had introduced section 139AA to the Income Tax Act (1961) that made linking of PAN with Aadhaar mandatory. But for many transgenders like Mohini, the two cannot be linked. Ironically, there is a ‘third gender’ option in the Aadhaar card application form. 
  
  Poonam, 24, a eunuch in Bareilly, said, “In case we process a PAN card showing us as male or female, we will not be able to link it with Aadhaar card because of mismatch identities on both cards. Aadhaar is mandatory to procure ration, LPG gas or other government schemes.”
  
  Shanti, 65, who is the leader of one transgender group in the district, said, “It has been extremely stressful. Identify has always been a fraught issue for us. We are as much human being as the rest of people in this country.”
  
  Bank officials, however, said PAN cards were not mandatory to open a bank account. But it is necessary if a transaction of over Rs 50,000 is to be made. Balram Pandey, branch coordinator of Karvy, an agency authorised to process PAN cards, said, “There is no option of third gender in our application forms.”
