HYDERABAD: March began on an extremely warm note for Hyderabad with average   levels touching 35.8 degree Celsius on Thursday — a sharp increase of three degrees from the 32.8 degree Celsius recorded only 10 days ago.

 
 The scorching heat was particularly felt it pockets such as Moula Ali and |Sri Nagar Colony where day-time temperatures shot to a high 38.3 and 37.8 respectively. Other areas such as Marredpally, Malkajgiri, Pashamylaram, Bandlaguda, Maitrivanam, Chandulal Baradari, Monda Market, Sardar Mahal and Begumpet too recorded maximum temperatures over 37 degree Celsius.
 
 
  
 
 But while Thursday’s   was marginally higher than what was recorded on this day last year — the average on March 1, 2017 was 35.3 degree Celsius — Met officials said that the worst was yet to come. Cautioning people against a gradual one degree increase in temperature every week in the city, officials of the Indian Meteorological Department (Hyderabad) predicted that all districts of Telangana will experience a higher number of heatwave days this   season —March-May, 2018.
 
 In 2017, the state witnessed 23 heatwave days as opposed to 27 recorded in 2016. This summer, officials fear, this count will be much more. “The number of heatwave days are expected to increase by 10 per cent this year. The temperature will be severe during April and May. It will continue till June first week,” said YK Reddy, director (in-charge) of IMD, Hyderabad.
 
 
 With the forecast hinting at asevere summer, IMD has decided to keep a round-the-clock watch on the situation, to issue heatwave warnings as and when required. “We have already warned the state government about the season’s outlook. A meeting is also being held by the chief secretary on March 3 to discuss the plan of action to avoid heat-related deaths,” said Reddy.
 
 
 Meteorologists said that the increase in frequency and duration of heatwaves could be attributed to increasing trends in greenhouse gases and the warming of the sea surface over the equatorial Indian and Pacific Oceans.
 
 
 Districts such as Badrachalam, Mahabubnagar, Medak, Nizamabad and Ramagundam too saw maximum temperatures touch the 38 degree Celsius mark, on Thursday.
 
