Field Marshal Sam Hormusji Framji Jamshedji Manekshaw (April 3, 1914 –June 27, 2008), popularly known as ‘Sam Bahadur’, was one of the greatest military commanders India’s had.

 On his 104th birth anniversary, here are some interesting facts about the eighth Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army.
 
 1. Born to Parsi parents in Amritsar, Manekshaw was the first Indian Army officer to be promoted to the five-star rank of Field Marshal.
 
 2. His father initially resisted his plans to join the Army, but he rebelled saying his father should send him to London in that case so that he can become a gynaecologist. His father refused that too. Following that, Manekshaw took the Indian Military Academy entrance examination and the rest is history.
 
 3. Manekshaw served the Army for 40 years and participated in five wars -World War II, India-Pakistan war of 1947, Sino-Indian war of 1962, India- Pakistan war of 1965 and the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971.
 
 4. Prior to the India-Pakistan 1971 war, when   asked Manekshaw about the Indian Army’s readiness, he said, “I am always ready sweetie.” He would refer to Indira as sweetie or sweetheart because of their Parsi connection (Indira’s husband   was Parsi).
 
 5. Manekshaw cheated death on a few occasions, both on the battlefield and away from it. He however lived on to be nonagenarian. As a young Captain, while posted in Burma and fighting a war with the Japanese in 1942, he was critically wounded with as many as nine bullets lodged in his body. While battling for life, his valiant Sikh orderly Sepoy Sher Singh came to his rescue and saved him from certain death.
 
 6. One of his famous quotes is: “If a man says he is not afraid of dying, he is either lying or he is a Gorkha”.
 
 7. Another of his famous quotes came when asked what would have happened if he had opted for Pakistan during partition, to which he replied, “then Pakistan would have won all wars.”
 
 8. His service was extended by six months on special order of President in 1972. Although unwilling, he continued out of respect for the President.
 
 9. He was awarded the Military Cross in 1942, the   in 1968 and the   in 1972.
 
 10. He died of pneumonia at the military hospital in Wellington. No politician came to his funeral, nor was a national day of mourning declared.
 
