CHENNAI: After suffering an initial split and then succeeding in regrouping and retrieving the party name and symbol, Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam have come a long way in managing the affairs of the   in the last one year.

 The two have embarked on a drive to weed out Sasikala loyalists from every level, starting from the top – V K Sasikala and T T V Dhinakaran - and going down till the grassroots. So far, more than 3,000 people including many former and sitting MLAs have been shown the door. In Sasikala’s forte Thanjavur district, about 400 people were sacked by the EPS-OPS camp on a single day. They are also infusing new blood to revamp the party machinery ahead of the local body polls. The much-awaited expansion of the steering committee from its present strength of four to eleven would happen soon, said party sources. For the first time, polling booth-level committees would be formed as a permanent fixture.
 
 The trigger for the changes is the humiliating defeat in R K Nagar at the hands of dissident leader TTV Dhinakaran. The leaders still have afresh in their memories the shifting of loyalties of AIADMK booth agents in Mangalore bypoll in 2004.
 
 Palaniswami takes efforts to iron out differences with his deputy OPS, other ministers and even MLAs. False ego does not hold this man back. His loyalists from the Kongu region stand solidly behind him. MLAs have a major say in all appointments and transfers and their interests are taken care of too. Palaniswami also has to handle infighting in some districts. For instance, the MLAs in Cuddalore district have been campaigning against local minister M C Sampath. Many of them have shifted loyalties to Dhinakaran. Virudhachalam MLA VT Kalaiselvan has been removed from the post of party town secretary. Former town secretary of Chidambaram, Thoppu K Sundar, has been expelled. “EPS and   run the affairs democratically,” Kattumannarkoil MLA N   said.
 
 The well-structured organization has over a lakh functionaries. “The family (Sasikala) was highly influential in the party and the undeserved got power and position in the party and the government, keeping Amma in the dark. A section continued to support Dhinakaran and got posting in his new outfit. They were sacked. Having learned from our leader (who ran the party with military discipline), order and discipline is foremost to us. Vacancies will be filled up shortly,” party deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said. Former MP and party spokesperson K C Palanisamy said a vibrant system would be in place ahead of the local body polls and true loyalists of MGR and Amma would be recognized by the leadership.
 
 
