BHOPAL: This will shock Bhopalis. The state government on Wednesday told the central bench of   ( ) just why   dumping site is dangerous — drinking water in Bhanpur has hazardous levels of coliform contamination at 1600 MPN (most probable number) per 100ml. Not to talk of the air pollution it causes in the area. 

 It’s ideal not to have any coliform in water but the permissible limit in India 500 MPM. What’s more, it took the government 15 months to submit the report. The tribunal had asked for the information on October 4, 2016, and the state finally tabled the compliance report on Wednesday .
 
 The green bench, which is currently headed by only expert member SS Garbyal, took the report on record, while rejecting the state’s claim that they were not aware of any order asking them to submit a report by the 15th of every month. “The tribunal rejects the reason of state government that has been attributed to non-compliance of NGT orders issued on October, 2 2016. The reason is not acceptable at all,” the expert member said.
 
 According to the October 2016 order, the state and MPPCB were to submit reports regarding contamination and pollution of underground water — including testing of samples at various points at different radius from the existing site of Bhanpura — by the 15th of every month. However, not a single report was submitted by the respondents so far, citing that a copy of the order was not uploaded on the official website.
 
 According to the first report submitted by the respondents, water samples from six locations of Bhanpur site that are the source of drinking water for the area were taken for tests. After examination, it was found that the water at all six locations has coliform bacteria 1600 times more than its permissible limit. The report also reveals that air quality of the area exceeds permissible levels of Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter (RSPM). High RSPM count can lead to several diseases and worsen others.
 
 “The report shows that RSPM is close to 130, which is much higher than National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The state has tagged the drinking water as dangerous for human consumption because of the high coliform count,” the expert member said during the hearing.
 
 The bench was hearing the case of applicant  , who alleges heavy metal contamination of the site. The report doesn’t mention anything about heavy metal.
 
 The higher RSPM is attributed to heavy traffic in the area. The report claims that the dumping site has been closed as of now and garbage is being dumped at a new site, Aadampur Chawni. 
 
 The applicant pointed out that the Bhanpur has been partially closed and that the closure has been done “unscientifically”.
 
  “The state has started creating another Bhanpur at Aadampur as no scientific procedure is being followed,” he alleged. In response, the green bench instructed Pandey to come up with a new application to prove it.
 
 “In the next 10 days, the state will file another report of compliance, which should mention the steps and actions taken. The applicant, in the meanwhile, will also get groundwater tested to cross check the report,” the green bench said.
 
 Nilesh Dubey, deputy director, urban development department and  , an expert in solid waste management, had earlier submitted a timeline for Bhanpur closure and making a new site at Aadampur functional till the month of October 2017. The tribunal in this regard asked for the steps taken for the preparation of the new site at Aadampur “as both these projects cannot be looked into isolation.”
 
 NGT has directed BMC to clean the dump at Bhanpur, which activists claim is 80 feet high and has polluted groundwater up to 500 metres below. Bhanpur has been a trenching ground for four decades and now poses a threat to local population. The matter has been listed for February, 13 2018.
 
 
