In director Shyamaprasad’s  , there is a scene where the protagonist, played by  , realises, while well into his 20s, that he has Asperger’s Syndrome, a subtype of autism. 

 His parents too learn about it at the same time, and are disturbed and equally relieved to learn why their son was different all his life.
 The scene can be termed significant in a way: a mental health condition is actually discussed with seriousness and medical accuracy in a film, in an industry where such movies were always a psychiatrists’ nightmare. Are times changing? Or do we still have a long way to go? We ask mental health practitioners. 
 The way mental illness is depicted in our movies has definitely changed significantly over the years, says Dr Gitanjali, HOD of Psychology Department, Amrita Hospital. “We have come a long way from the days when the mentally ill person was some unimportant character, someone chained to a cot. No distinction was made about the nature of illness, either. But now more specific disorders are portrayed and that too by the protagonists — Alzheimer’s in Thanmathra, alcohol dependence in Spirit, obsessive-compulsive spectrum in 24 North Kaatham and Kunjananthante Kada, anger dyscontrol in Kali, to quote a few,” she says.
 
 The portrayal of Asperger’s syndrome in Hey Jude, according to her, is exact and comprehensive in many ways. “The restricted interests, concreteness and rigidity, gross social skill deficit and the exceptional ‘spikes’ found in persons with Asperger’s syndrome are skilfully presented through Jude,” she explains.
 However, in the same movie, the portrayal of bipolar, which its female lead Crystal, played by  , suffers from is found wanting, according to a few. “Bipolar Affective Disorder (BPAD) is characterised by clear episodes of pervasive disturbance in mood, energy and activity levels that last from a week to months, with intervening periods of complete normalcy. The mood fluctuations and emotional dyscontrol of Crystal in the film are more characteristic of an emotionally unstable personality disorder,” says Dr Gitanjali.
 
 Maala Parvathy, psychologist and actress, however, is of the opinion that bipolar disorder can manifest in mild forms as well, and those who are outwardly normal too can suffer from the disease, as shown in the movie. “I think Shyamaprasad has captured well the nuances of someone who is insightful of her illness and isolates herself accordingly,” she says.
 
 All doctors, however, agree that the movie portrays the crucial role of the family and caregiver of the patient beautifully. “The teasing, bullying and social isolation experienced by such persons is sensitively presented in the film. It is common to attribute mental illnesses to laziness or imagination, and for the family to be in denial. A little understanding, appreciation and support bring a welcome change in Jude. We can also see the immense role of social skills training for persons with Asperger’s syndrome,” says Dr Gitanjali, while Parvathi adds, “Bipolar is characterised by the two extremes of mania and depression.
 
 The father of the girl gently channelises her energy during the manic phases into music, travel and other outlets. It shows exactly how an ideal caregiver should be.”
 Above all, there is ability for filmmakers today to respect the illness as well as the individuals suffering from it, says Dr Philip John, psychiatrist. “The mentally ill were just a means for comedy earlier. But in films like Thanmathra, there was only the truth about the illness; there was nothing funny about it.” 
 We have also moved on a lot from the earlier depiction of “possession” and its cure through physical torture, says Dr Philip. “Possession or baadha as we call it is actually something minor, a kind of dissociation which is a manifestation of anxiety. It can be easily cured by therapy and medication. But in all our films, it is shown as something morbid, which is ‘cured’ through black magic, exorcism, a homam or violent beatings,” he says. The mental disorder Shobhana’s character in Manichithrathazhu suffers is a typical example, according to him. “There is a kind of treatment called psychodrama but it is never something like the staged murder shown in the film.”
 
 Interestingly, in real life also, possession syndrome is disappearing, apparently! “Psychological anxiety is manifesting in other acceptable ways, with physical symptoms such as headache and stomach ache,” he says.
 Some films still bank on exorcism, while wrong depictions of amnesia is very much prevalent, he says. “It’s true that amnesia can result from an accident and it does involve memory loss of various forms. But memory can never ever be regained abruptly, by reminding the patient of earlier times. Regaining of memory, if at all possible, will be gradual.” 
 
 Dr Philip points out a permanent casualty which has resulted from the wrong depiction of illnesses in Kerala—the Electroconvul-sive Therapy (ECT) or shock therapy, which was a staple in films with a mental patient.
 
 “ECT is one of the best forms of treatment today and works wonders in patients with extreme suicidal tendencies. But unfortunately, owing to the way it has been depicted in movies, there is great stigma against it in our State. Patients and their family are averse to the treatment, thinking it involves the patient flailing his arms and legs like we see in movies. For more than two decades it is being done under anaesthesia and all precautions are taken. Films like Ulladakkam showed the treatment in very bad taste, and it has done a lot of damage,” he says.
 
 But then, the technically correct depiction might not always provide the drama needed for a movie, he agrees. “You can’t always blame the director. In Hollywood they have the luxury of choosing their audience whereas our market is small and we have to simplify such illnesses to add drama and make the film financially viable.”
 He cites the example of a Malayalam movie with a mental illness as its theme, for which the makers consulted him. “The final product had nothing whatsoever about what I had told them and everything was dramatic. Often, there is no choice but to move away from the purely technical representation of the illnesses,” he concludes. 
 
