Shimla: Politics on the cancellation of notifications for sub-divisional status to Janjheli and sub-tehsil status to Chhatri in Mandi district by Himachal Pradesh High Court has intensified. Now that local Congress leaders have joined the protests, things are likely to escalate. On Saturday, a few policemen were injured when protesters indulged in stone-pelting at Janjheli. The effigy of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who has not even completed two months in office, was also burnt. The Congress accused the BJP government of failing to handle the issue effectively.

 Mandi DC Rigved Thakur and SP Gurdev Chand reached Janjheli on Sunday to take stock of the situation and pacify protesters. Congress spokesperson Naresh Chauhan said the previous Congress regime decided to open the sub-division office and sub-tehsil office at Janjheli, for which staff was provided but now the government has closed both offices.
 
 “Residents of Janjheli have taken to the roads to protest against the government. After Jai Ram Thakur became chief minister, Janjheli gained importance so instead of escaping responsibility under the garb of court orders, the state government should file a review petition in high court,” he said.
 
 The previous Congress regime announced sub-division status for Janjheli and sub-tehsil status for Chhatri. Gram panchayat, Thunag in Mandi district challenged the notifications in court. Incidentally, Jai Ram Thakur belongs to the area and represents Seraj assembly constituency in the assembly. 
 
 Many BJP leaders feel the Congress is fuelling the protests despite the fact that it was the high court which quashed the notifications. In a judgment on January 4, the division bench of acting chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice Sandeep Sharma quashed the June 27, 2016 notification on creation of a sub-division at Janjehli and April 21, 2016 notification on creation of a new sub-tehsil in Chhatri. 
 
 The court said most of the population is towards Thunag, which is geographically well-connected. The court observed that Janjehli is generally covered with snow in the winter, making things difficult for the administration.
 
 
