Chennai: Paving way to improve India’s ranking in the ‘ease of doing business’, the Centre has promulgated an ordinance to amend the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, 2015.

 The bill which was cleared by the Union Cabinet chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 7, received the President’s accord on May 3. The notification published in the official gazette said that since the Parliament was not in session and the President is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate action, the ordinance had been promulgated.
 
 The ordinance brings down the pecuniary jurisdiction of commercial courts from Rs 1 crore to Rs 3 lakh, permitting such courts to adjudicate disputes valued from Rs 3 lakh and above, said advocate and intellectual property rights (IPR) attorney P Sanjay Gandhi.
 
 The ordinance also provides for establishment of district judge level commercial courts for the territories over which high courts have ordinary original civil jurisdiction in cities of Chennai, Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and state of Himachal Pradesh. Such commercial courts shall have monetary jurisdictions not less than three lakh rupees and not more than the pecuniary jurisdiction of the district court.
 
 The original Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of High Courts Act, allowed the establishment of commercial courts at district levels in all jurisdictions except under the five high courts. These high courts have original ordinary civil jurisdiction, through which they can transfer to itself any civil case pending in a subordinate court.
 
 In other areas, except the territories over which the high courts have original civil jurisdiction, the state government may by notification designate appellate courts, to hear commercial disputes decided by the commercial court below the level of district judge.
 
 By inserting a new chapter to the principal Act, titled ‘Pre-institution mediation and settlement’ (chapter IIIA), the ordinance has introduced pre-institution mediation process for all the suits where urgent interim relief is not contemplated. This would help parties to settle their disputes outside courts through authorities constituted under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987.
 
 This apart, by inserting Section 21A to the Act, the ordinance has provided powers to the central government to make rules for carrying out the procedures of the Act.
 
 In a press release issued by the PIB when the cabinet approved the proposed amendment, it was stated that ‘Ease of Doing Business’ is an index of World Bank which inter alia refers to the dispute resolution environment in a country which facilitates the investors in deciding for setting up of and operation of a business. “This index has been created by the World Bank Group and since 2002, it has been evaluating almost all the countries of the world. A high   ranking means the regulatory environment is more conducive to the starting and operation of the business.
 
 On October 31, 2017, World Bank released its latest annual ‘Ease of Doing Business’ report for the year 2018 in which India has emerged out as one among top ten improvers and for the first time ever, India has jumped 30 positions and reached 100th ranked country in terms of ‘Ease of Doing Business’ amongst 190 countries. This manifests that India is fast adopting the best practices in regulatory framework for Ease of Doing Business at all fronts,” the release said.
 
 
