VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is focusing on increasing the number of   divisions and mandals in a bid to improve administrative efficiency.

 The state government is planning to form five new revenue divisions in three North-Andhra districts. If the proposals go through, Srikakulam will get one new  , while Vizianagaram and Vizag districts will get two new revenue divisions each.
 
 The Visakhapatnam district revenue divisions would increase to six with the two newly-proposed divisions. Presently, the district has four divisions - Visakha, Narsipatnam, Paderu and the recently-formed Anakapalle revenue division.
 
 “We proposed two revenue divisions one-and-a-half years ago. Vizag district’s population is around 44 lakh.   and West Bengal have big districts. Telangana and other states have only 5 to 10 lakh population in their districts. Since the government is not going in for new districts, it is an attempt to strenghen the lower-level administration with new divisions and mandals,” district collector Pravin Kumar said.
 
 The collector added that the collector can seek the assistance of more RDOs to better monitor developmental activity. Vizag Urban will have three more mandals soon, officials said.
 
 The aspirations of Chodavaram and its surrounding areas would soon bear fruit after four decades as the proposal to increase revenue divisions was initiated in the mid 70s. 
 
 Chodavaram division may have seven mandals – Madugula, Cheedikada, Devarapalli , Ravikamatam, Bucchaiyyapeta, Chodavaram and K Kotapadu mandals, according to officials.
 
 The Chintapalli revenue division will have G Madugula, Chintapalli, GK Veedhi, Koyyuru, Golugonda and some more mandals. Most of these mandals are under Paderu division till date.
 
 Vizianagaram will add two more revenue division to the existing Vizianagaram and  . The new division would be the historical place of Bobbili and Cheepurupalli. 
 
 Out of 34 mandals in the district, Vizianagaram division has 19 while Parvathipuram division has 15 mandals. Bobbili might have Bobbili, Salur, Ramachandrapuram, Pachipenta, Makkuva, Badangi and Terlam, sources said. The proposed Cheepuralli division would have Cheepurupalli, Mentada, Gajapatinagaram, Dattirajeru, Garividi, Gurla, Pusapatirega and Merakamudidam. Srikakulam revenue division will increase from 3 to 4 as   division was proposed, officials said.
 
 The district has 38 mandals. Pathapatnam, Meliaputti, Hiramandalam and Kotturu mandals are now in Palakonda division.
 
 
