NEW DELHI: Admissions for   will be clubbed with Indian students for Delhi University’s 2018-19 admissions. The university has also notified the admission committee. 

 The big change this year is that the registration process is also likely to advance by more than month. This will give students a bigger window to sort out certificate issues and documentation, and for a certain period of time students will be allowed to edit the online registration form as well.
 
 The university has processed the appointment of the 47-member admission committee. From 24 members last year, the university has expanded the committee by retaining majority of the 2017-18 members. According to Yogesh Tyagi, vice chancellor of the varsity, professor Maharaj Pandit will continue to head the committee. More members have been included to have a bigger representation to address the concerns of all aspirants.
 
 Apart from the online entrance test for the entrance-based courses, the committee will also deliberate on making the admission process for commerce programmes entrance based. BCom and BCom (honours) are two of the most sought after courses where the cutoffs in majority of the colleges remain 93% and above till the final list.
 
 “An entrance based admission would making more students eligible and even aspirants with comparatively lower cutoffs could secure a seat. However, the modalities need to be worked and agreed upon,” said a college principal, who has been a member of the committee for the 2017-18 admissions.
 
 The university is also thinking of introducing a comprehensive online centralised registration forms for all category of students and for all courses, including the entrance based ones.
 
 “While clubbing the admission process of the foreign students with others means shifting the dates to probably March, this will also mean advancing the dates for Indian students. From this year the registration dates for everyone could be anytime between March and April,” said a senior   official.
 
 A DU source said Tyagi pressed upon the committee to start the process early and make it “glitch free”.
 
 
