GUWAHATI: Lending support to the voices of dissent over the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, cultural icons of the state took to the city streets on Sunday to register their protest against the proposed legislation and demand that the government withdraw the bill. 

 Noted writers, artists and cultural activists came together at Lakhiram Barua Sadan here, protesting against a move that, they said, will threaten the existence of tribal communities of the state and endanger the Assamese language. The proposed amendment would make Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Parsis, Jains and Buddhists from  , Pakistan and Afghanistan eligible for Indian citizenship. It also seeks to reduce the residency period for eligibility to be brought down from 11 years to six years. The issue of illegal migration is fraught with violence in the state that has seen waves of migrants come in from Bangladesh.
 
 "The bill seeks to grant citizenship on religious grounds and violates the ethos of the Constitution. It threatens the interests of the Assamese community. How can such a bill be acceptable? We should not undermine the sacrifices made by our freedom fighters, because of whom Assam became a part of India and not East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) after Independence," writer and theatre activist Naren Patgiri said.
 
 Nani Borpujari, one of the most well-known artists of the state, said every Assamese citizen should oppose the bill. "It cannot benefit Assam in any way. We cannot take in more Bangladeshi immigrants. The state is already fighting to save its identity," he added.
 
 Throwing his weight behind the protesters, acclaimed author   said, "The legislation should not be allowed to divide the people of Assam on religious or linguistic lines." He urged the government to ensure that the bill does not lead to "humiliation" for anyone who comes under its purview. "This bill has pushed Assam to the edge. At the same time, we must think about the people who will end up as victims in this tussle. They (the migrants) should not be subjected to the same plight as the  ," he added.
 
 Students from several colleges and universities also joined the meet, after which a protest march was taken out. With placards, paintings and patriotic songs, the protesters raised a call to "save Assam" from the bill.
 
 In the meantime, the   - a powerful peasant body in the state - launched a mass awareness campaign here on Sunday to mobilize public opinion against the bill. 
 
 
