KOLKATA: A two-acre property in Shakespeare Sarani, widely known as the birthplace of  , also witnessed a crucial piece of history of the Subcontinent — the birth of Bangladesh.

 No wonder, Bangladesh deputy high commission has planned a meeting with members of Sri Aurobindo Samity, the board of trustees that manages 8 Shakespeare Sarani, where a pioneer of militant Indian nationalism was born on August 15, 1872. The meeting will be a follow-up of Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina’s wish to use parts of the premises in remembrance of a crucial episode of the country’s history.
 
 “This address was the headquarters of the first government of Bangladesh (government-in-exile) from April to December 1971,” said Toufique Hasan, Bangladesh deputy high commissioner. “It was witness to emergence of the new nation,” he added.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is reportedly ready to offer alternative land to Sri Aurobindo Samity, members of which have written to Governor K N Tripathi. “We seek his intervention,” Samity assistant secretary   said.
 
 The governor, incidentally, is ex-officio chairman of the board of trustees and the CM an ex-officio member. Their roles have been defined by the Sri Aurobindo Memorial Act, 1972. “The act makes it clear that this property is strictly meant for ‘propagating the teachings of Sri Aurobindo among the masses’ and nothing else,” quipped  , who heads Sabda, publication section of Sri Aurobindo Samity.
 
 During their Kolkata meeting on May 26, Banerjee had offered land in   to set up a museum in the memory of Sheikh Hasina’s father Bangabandhu Mujibur Rahaman. That’s when the issue of Auronbindo Bhavan’s “strong Bangladeshi connect” was broached by Bangladesh deputy high commission officials, who recalled the historic nine months in 1970 when the Indira Gandhi-led Indian government let “muktijodhhas” operate out of the expansive Shakespeare Sarani property comprising a 10-cottah lawn, a sprawling driveway and a sixcottah backyard, which was transformed into a shrine two years later, around a sparkling white tomb that preserves Aurobindo’s hair and nails.
 
 “We believe in the good sense of our leaders and the Bangladeshi leadership and are confident that the place will be left alone,” said Dasgupta. Hasan is also optimistic. “The CM is extremely positive. We hope that our part of the history is registered somewhere within the compound,” he said, adding, “At the same time, we want to ensure that the interest of   is not hampered.” Md Mofakkharul Iqbal, first secretary (press), said, “The authorities have been extremely cordial in allowing us to hold our Mujibnagar Dibosh on April 17.”
 
 Sanyal said, “The event is being held since 2015. What took them (Bangladeshi government) so long to commemorate the precious past buried inside Aurobindo Bhavan?”
 
