PATNA: It was a day of hectic activities on the   (PU) campus on Thursday as a large number of students, accompanied by their supporters, turned up to file their nomination papers for election to various offices of the Patna University Students’ Union (PUSU). The   elections, being held after a gap of over five years, are scheduled for February 17.

 As many as 160 candidates, including a sizeable number of girls, filed their nominations for 28 posts, including president, vice-president, general secretary, secretary and treasurer, besides executive council members. Nominations filed for the five key offices include 18 for the post of president, 16 for vice-president, 12 for general secretary, 11 for joint secretary and 14 for treasurer. Altogether 89 nominations were filed for 23 posts of executive members from different constituencies, said PU chief election officer P K Poddar. 
 
 Only two girls from Patna Women’s College filed nominations against four seats of executive council membership and, hence, they were elected unopposed. Several candidates could not file their nominations as they did not have the mandatory 75% attendance.
 
 Students looked quite excited while filing their nominations. All the major student organizations affiliated to different political parties, including All India Students’ Federation, All India Students’ Association, National Students Union of India, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, All India Democratic Students’ Organisation and Chhatra Janta Dal (U) have fielded their candidates for election to the various posts. 
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh said he has requested the district administration to provide adequate security arrangements on the campus in view of the union elections. “Security of students will be our prime concern,” he said, adding the state election office has also been requested to keep a watch on the PUSU election. 
 
 A section of students sat on dharna in front of the university office to protest alleged irregularities in calculation of attendance of students at  . The agitating students also alleged that no teacher was available in the college to help students at the time of nominations. They demanded extension of time of filing nominations. 
 
 
