NEW DELHI. Congress President   today slammed the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ( ) chief   for his “disrespectful” comments against  . 

  
 In a scathing tweet, Gandhi demanded apology from RSS after Bhagwat questioned “preparedness of Indian Army to fight enemies at border”.
 
  “Shame on you Mr Bhagwat, for disrespecting our martyrs and our Army,” read his tweet.
 
  Using hashtag “#ApologizeRSS”, the Gandhi scion further tweeted, “The RSS chief's speech is an insult to every Indian, because it disrespects those who have died for our nation. It is an insult to our flag because it insults every soldier who ever saluted it.”
 
  
  
 Congress communications in-charge Randeep Surjewala tore into the RSS and called on people to reject the saffron outfit's "DNA of division".
 
 "Let all Indians remember- they vilified Gandhi, they slandered Nehru, they slammed Patel, they attacked Ambedkar.
 They didn’t fly the Tricolour for 52 years, they don’t admit women to Shakha for 92 years. Now, Sangh insults Army’s valour. We, the Indians, reject your DNA of division," Surjewala tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani and Patidar activist Hardik Patel too joined Gandhi in attacking Bhagwat.
 
 "RSS is an army of underwear clad men who spark riots in country. I urge Bhagwat to go sell pakodas across country so that Modi can give government jobs to youth of our country," Mevani tweeted.
 
 Whereas Mevani's colleague Patel said "no one needs to learn patriotism" from Bhagwat.
 
 "A case should be registered against Bhagwat for calling Indian Army weak," Patel tweeted.
 
 Bhagwat had stirred a row on Sunday after he compared Sangh cadre with Indian Army personnel.
 
  “Despite not being a military organization, Sangh can prepare military personnel within three days which the Army normally takes months to do. This is our capability,” said Bhagwat, speaking at an RSS function in Muzaffarpur, Bihar.
 
  “If the nation requires, and our constitution permits, the RSS is ready to go to border and fight for country’s safety,” he added.
 
 
 
 
