KOCHI: The container truck parking facility of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd ( ) in   is now fully functional but most trucks are shying away from using it. Drivers prefer to park them on roadsides along Vallarpadam to Muttam citing the reason that the fee they should pay is on the higher side.

 
  
  
 
 The four-acre facility sees around 60 container trucks on weekdays and 75 to 100 on weekends. The city has around 4,000 odd container trucks plying through its roads but apart from the facility offered by the BPCL and the recently developed space at   junction there is no space available to park them. Around 1,550 container trucks have registered with International Container Transshipment Terminal ( ) in Vallarpadam.
 
 The lukewarm response has forced BPCL officials to consider programmes which will lure container operators to park their vehicles at the facility.
 
 “We conduct free health check-up camps for container workers. Since the parking of containers illegally on roadsides results in theft of goods from the vehicles, they use the facility on weekends. But the response from them on weekdays is poor. We will hold a meeting with union leaders and district collector to ensure more parking of containers at the facility,” said a BPCL official.
 
 The parking facility was set up after the Kerala high court directed the district administration to ban parking of trailers on container road. The court directive was in the backdrop of many lives being lost in accidents involving parked trailers on roadsides. Following this, the collector banned parking on container road, but there was no let-up as trucks continued to flout rules.
 
 BPCL launched the facility last year after Cochin Port Trust (CPT) awarded them land on lease for 30 years. The work on the container parking facility of   at Vallarapadam is going on in full swing.
 
 “We plan to impose a fine on containers for parking along roadsides illegally. we will implement it with the help of police and the motor vehicle department,” said K Mohammed Y Safirulla, district collector, Ernakulam.
 
 Most of the parking is done in the Vallarpadam-Container Road, near Mulavukadu toll plaza, Moolampilly, Kothad, Cheranelloor junction and the stretch from Eloor junction to Muttam. The Cochin Container Carrier Owners Welfare Association (CCCOWA) says they cannot afford the parking fee at Vallarpadom facility. The fee is in the range of Rs 250 – 300 per container, depending on the size, per day.
 
 “Nearly 70% of the containers registered at ICTT operate in Kochi daily. Currently, we are in deep crisis due to poor income and rise in expenditure. We are spending Rs 700 per day on a container truck on various grounds. If we park at the facility, it means the owner must shell out additional Rs
 
 300. The authorities should provide the facility free-ofcost or at least reduce the parking fee,’ said Tomy Thomas, secretary of the association.
 
 “Cochin port Trust had invited expression of interest to operate a parking facility on the 10-acre land. but none turned up. We have allotted a space for operating similar facility near Bolgatty last month,” said a spokesperson of CPT.
 
