Manali: With   marking the winter solstice, after which days start getting longer and chances of snowfall gets less, people of Himachal are worried if this season passes without snowfall.

 According to meteorological department, they have not seen any signs of clouds moving towards northern India any time soon this month. The peaks above 10,000ft have scattered patches of snow, which are expected to melt away in the next few weeks. Experts are worried over the change in weather pattern, fruit growers over the future of crops dependent on snowfall, general public over drinking water sources and tourism entrepreneurs over business.
 
 Roshan Lal Sharma, an elderly in Manali, said Makar Sankranti on January 14 used to bring festivity of ‘sun and snow’. “In Kullu, especially in snow-fed areas, people still distribute barley leaves to relatives to ensure that they survive the heavy snowfall of December and January. We had to dig deep inside snow to reach the barley in the field. Dry weather has spoiled the festivity,” he said.
 
 Popular tourist resorts of Himachal, J&K and Uttrakhand await snowfall. Snowfall in northern India is at the mercy of western disturbance originating from the  . The westerlies this year are very weak. Three strong western disturbances this winter season showered some snow on high altitude peaks only while the lower areas didn’t see even snowflakes.
 
 “December used to be the month of heavy snowfall and chances of snowfall used to decrease after mid-January. Everything has changed now,” said Pyare Ram, an octogenarian, adding that now December passes away without snowfall and later part of January or February brings negligible amount of snow, which melts within a few hours. “If Makar Sankranti passes without snow, this is a matter of concern. ‘Uttarayan’ has started from Sunday, which means sun will now move towards north. Days will be longer and temperature will increase. We used to walk on four to five feet of snow to reach our relatives to offer them barley leaves and seek their blessings.”
 
 Sky showers powder (dry) snow in December and January due to extreme cold conditions and is considered good for glaciers, fruit trees and farms as it lasts longer and does not cause harm. Snowfall in February and March, which is wet and heavy, brings disaster and melts in a few hours.
 
  growers of the state are upset as snow is a must for better crop. Apple trees require some particular chill hours to produce a good harvest. Himachal is advancing on the path of becoming a ‘power state’ of the country by producing thousands of megawatt of clean energy through hydel projects. The volume of water that moves turbines of projects is also dependent on snowfall.
 
 Senior scientist with GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment and Sustainable Development J C Kuniyal said the change in weather pattern is caused by human interference with nature. “We have recorded an increase in aerosol optical depth by up to 10% in recent years. The pollutants in environment have increased due to local reasons like deforestation and non-scientific construction,” he said.
 
 
