KOLKATA: Calcutta University on Thursday conferred on   the honorary Doctor of Letters (DLitt) “for her special contribution in the field of social service and literature”, prompting the Bengal CM to recount her days of struggle that had “brought her to this dais”.

 “There are some who are born with a golden spoon and some who never have anything except neglect, disrespect and insult, which await them at every juncture of life. But one should take all this in stride as this is harsh reality,” Banerjee, while accepting the certificate, said.
 
 “A person should not be known for her lineage but should be remembered for her work. I never imagined that I would be standing on this dais today and delivering the convocation address,” she added.
 
 The Calcutta high court is hearing a PIL against the CU decision; the next date of hearing is Friday. The CU decision also prompted criticism from some political opponents and an emotional defence from the CM.
 
 Banerjee referred to the “inner conflict” in accepting the honour. “I was asking Partha da (state education minister  ) why he was forcing me to come here to accept this honour. I am just an insignificant student of this university but I love this institute. I am a very simple human being and believe that I am not worthy of such an honour,” she added.
 
 But she also admitted feeling proud that CU had decided to confer this honour on her. “My life is one of neglect and disrespect. I am being humiliated by a section even as CU is conferring this honour,” she said. “But, whatever one may say, my name is registered as a student of CU. I want to go to places where there is respect for me,” she added.
 
 Thanking the varsity for the honour, she said: “Today, you have given me an honour, it has been awarded for my work and by doing this you have made my life a success. I am humbled. I will never use this honorary degree but I shall forever cherish the respect that you have bestowed upon me because I have arrived here after a lot of struggle in my life.”
 
 Some in Congress and Left Front, however, did not think highly of the CU decision. “It speaks low of the state education system,” CPM politburo member Mohammad Salim said. Congress MLA and leader of the opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan said: “Her dream has finally come true. She has got more than what she had to give up after the old PhD controversy.”
 
 But Mannan’s Congress colleague, Omprakash Mishra, saw nothing wrong in Banerjee’s getting the DLitt. “CU has every right to confer an honorary DLitt on her. JU conferred it on Pranab Mukherjee. The vilification campaign is unwarranted,” he said.
 
 Retired vice-chancellor   has moved the HC, along with co-petitioner Abu Taleb, opposing the CU decision.
 
 The varsity on Thursday claimed in court that its senate is the final authority in deciding an awardee and anybody else is an outsider, having no authority to challenge it. The counsel for the varsity,  , submitted before the court that the achievements and eminence of a person itself are reasons for being chosen for the award.
 
 
