Belagavi/Ballari: With the objective to promote skill development and entrepreneurship programmes, ‘Skillthon’ and ‘Skills on wheels,’ initiatives were launched in Belagavi on Tuesday, along with an awareness drive. 

 At a news conference here on Tuesday, Union minister for skill development and entrepreneurship,  , said, “we are organizing an interaction session with students in the first phase of the programme, to guide them towards skill development and entrepreneurship. The government realized that only getting certificates from school and college, does not work, and the youth need to be trained in skills in different verticals. A total 67% of the population in India are youth, and their working domain changes every 20 years. The skill index of the country is at 4.5%, while in Western countries, it is over 50%. Therefore, our ministry has come up with revolutionary steps to increase the skill index of the country.” 
 
 “We have come up with the Pradhan Mantri Koushal Vikas Yojana(PMKVY), for short term skill development programmes, while providing long term skill development programmes through the Pradhan Mantri Koushalya Kendras (PMKK), which are being organized in every district in the country. Apart from this, we have started 7 new generation skill universities in the country. We have plans to start one such varsity in Karnataka too. Institutions like RV college, KLES and JSS have shown a positive response towards this. On the lines of IITs and IIMs, Indian Institute of Skill Centres(IISC) and Indian Skill Development Services(ISDS), on the lines of the IAS and IPS, will become a reality in the future,” he said.
 
 “We have plans to frame guidelines for all industries to appoint apprentices to 10% of the posts in their firms,so that they can get a chance to learn skills. The Government of India will be paying 25% of the total salary to them,” he said. 
 
 In the morning and afternoon, the minister interacted with students at KLES Jirge auditorium, and with students and entrepreneurs at KLS Gogte Institute of Technology.
 
 Caption: Union minister Anantkumar Hegde launches the ‘Skill on wheels’ initiative at the KLS GIT college in Belgavi on Tuesday
 
 Job mela on Saturday
 
 The National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), entrepreneurship department and Ballari District Chamber of Commerce, will jointly organize the Ballari district job mela at the Rao Bahadur Y Mahabaleswarappa Engineering College, on Saturday.
 
 MP B Sriramulu, and Dr D L Ramesh Gopal, chairmen of the district Chamber of Commerce, jointly announced this to the media on Tuesday. Registration of aspirants starts today. Those interested can visit www.jobmela.online, to register their names.
 
 Pic : MP B Sriramulu, and district Chamber of Commerce president Dr Ramesh Gopal at a news conference in Ballari on Tuesday
 
 
