MANALI: Dalit students of Government High School, Chestha, in Kullu district, who had to face discrimination allegedly at the hands of their teacher during PM Narendra Modi’s “Pariksha Par Charcha” on February 16 will be getting Rs 1 lakh each as compensation.

 District welfare officer R C Bansal said that the rules notified under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 2016, have a provision of paying Rs 1 lakh relief to the victim. “Police have registered the case under the SC/ST Act which has the new clause, enacted in 2016 to pay compensation. We have sought a list of students who were the victims in this particular case. Once we receive the list from police, we will start disbursing the relief amount,” he said.
 
 The rules say that compensation is paid under “presumption of offence to protect the rights of the SC/ST”. Bansal said the amount will be paid in three installments. “First, 25% of the amount is paid after registration of the FIR. 50% amount will be paid after police file chargesheet in the court. Remaining amount will be paid on disposal of the case. If accused are not convicted, the balance 25% will be withheld,” he added.
 
 Many Dalit leaders here have demanded compensation for the victims and were asking to terminate the services of all the teachers of the school. Many of them also wrote letters to the Prime Minister and the chief minister. They said that such practice was continuing in many schools where Dalit students were made to sit separate while being served midday meal.
 
 Chief minister   and many of his ministers have already assured of strict action in the case. Kullu DC had also ordered magisterial inquiry into the matter immediately after receiving the complaint. So far, two teachers on contract have been sacked, two transferred, while the headmaster has been sent to Shimla.
 
 According to police complaint, Dalit students of the school were made to sit outside the house of school management committee president where PM’s “Pariksha Par Charcha” was being telecasted. The letter also claimed that Dalit students are being served midday meal in separate rows which was found by the investigating team as well. The police then registered a case against school management and are now identifying the victim students who would get relief amount from the government.
 
 
