LUCKNOW: The UP   has demanded that women   officers tackling law and order issues or on sensitive posts be provided with a gunner for security. The issue was discussed at the executive committee meeting of the association held here on Monday.

 
 The association also demanded that IAS officers be posted in development authorities, local bodies and municipal corporations. The IAS officers also sought speedy approval of their Central deputation as denial or delay in their posting at the joint secretary level at the Centre debars them from empanelment at the additional secretary level. The association has also decided that the executive committee would hold its meeting every second month to discuss issues affecting the officers and resolve them with the state government. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of the UP IAS Association president, Pravir Kumar, who is also chairman of the revenue board and secretary Alok Kumar. The officers lamented that it had been noticed that the state government does not approve applications for Central deputations. “If we have not served the government of India for three years at the joint secretary level, then we don’t get empanelled at the additional secretary or secretary level. So, we want expeditious approval of the applications from the state government,” was the general refrain of young officers attending the committee meeting.
 
 
 
 The association would take up the matter with the DoPT in government of India, secretary of the association, Alok Kumar told TOI.
 
 The association also strongly advocated that IAS officers be appointed in the urban sector, mainly in municipal corporations and development authorities so that they are able to face the challenges of rapid urbanization. “In the years to come, the governments are going to face fast urbanization as a major issue and for this IAS officers should get postings in the local bodies, including development authorities,” said the association members.
 
 The association reiterated its views regarding the passage of the Bill from the   to amend the Prevention of Anti-corruption Act to provide protection to honest officers, who at times face the heat for taking decisions for the welfare of the state and are not involved in malpractice. The Bill should be passed by the Parliament at the earliest, demanded the officers.
 
 Kumar said that women IAS officers should be granted proper security while on official duty handling a sensitive situation.
 
 Four young IAS officers — Amit Gupta, Pranjal Yadav, Shubhra Saxena and   — have been appointed as joint secretaries of the association. The association also demanded that senior officers should be asked to train probationers coming for training in the state’s academy.
 
