GHAZIABAD: An 88-year-old woman described by her family as “mentally disoriented” fell off an 11th-floor apartment in Aashiana Upvan housing society in Indirapuram on Tuesday morning.

 Devki Devi, the octogenarian woman, used to live in a four-bedroom flat with the family of her son Puran Singh Mehra (58). Her family members said the elderly woman was “senile” and had been under medical treatment for the past few years.
 
 None of the family members claimed to have seen how the woman fell to death from the flat. They said there was a chance the woman could have walked across the parapet of her room, through the sliding glass-window that was open in the morning for fresh air to come in, on to the concrete shade of the 10th-floor balcony from where she fell. The glass window opened directly into the shade of the balcony below, without any other obstruction.
 
 “She was suffering from a range of geriatric disorders that had left her physically weak and mentally disoriented. Her memory had weakened over the years and she could hardly recognise anybody. She did not want to have food and so we had to feed her forcibly. The glass pane across the window of her room had been blocked with the help of heavy furniture. On Tuesday morning, the pane had been opened a little to allow in fresh air because the room was stinking,” Mehra, who works in a private firm in Delhi, said.
 
 The family said Mehra’s wife Shanti had seen her last. Shanti had visited the octogenarian woman’s room around 30 minutes before she fell to enquire of her well-being.
 
 A police team reached the society after getting a call. The woman, who apparently crashed against a couple of protruding concrete balcony shades on her way down, died on the spot.
 
 “The family refused to conduct a postmortem or pursue any legal action in the matter. It seems the woman had walked out through the window in a state of disorientation,” said Indirapuram circle officer Dharmendra Chauhan.
 
 This is the eighth case of falling from high-rises in   in 2018. On April 12, an 18-year-old domestic help fell accidently from the 13th floor of Angel Jupiter society in Indirapuram.
 
 
