NOIDA: The education department has directed schools affiliated to UP   to install   cameras in rooms where finals exams will be held from February 6.

 The district inspector of schools (DIOS) has ordered that all the 45 examination examination centres under the board must have the cameras by January 15.
 
 Many schools have sighted lack of funds under the development category for their inability to buy the CCTV cameras. Sources said the DIOS had asked such schools to take a written undertaking from him allowing them to use funds under other heads to install the cameras as early as possible.
 
 “A similar directive had been issued earlier but it was not mandatory. The board has now made it mandatory for test centres to have CCTV cameras. On Friday, fresh directives were issued at a meeting of all school inspectors with the education minister and senior officials of the board. We had called another meeting of the principals on Saturday and informed them about the decision,” said PK Upadhyay, the DIOS of Gautam Budh Nagar.
 
 Officials said the decision to install the cameras followed several complaints of copying during exams and imposters writing the papers on behalf of the actual examinees. 
 
 A similar order issued two years ago was hardly implemented in the absence of a clarity on funds.
 
 Most test centres of the   fall in Jewar and Greater Noida, where many schools do not have CCTV facility in examination rooms.
 
 “We have started contacting the CCTV service providers. It has been clarified that the schools can use the development funds for getting CCTVs. However, if the development funds are not sufficient, the DIOS has said that he can give an undertaking to utilise the money under other heads,” said Ashok Dwivedi, the principal of Shri Amichand Inter College, Kasna.
 
 The principal of a government school in Jewar said generating funds was easier said than done for schools that did not have their own land and building and relied mostly on fees from students to function.
 
 The department has also directed the principals to hand over to the police any person found writing the paper on behalf of the actual examinee.
 
 “Such complaints had been made around two years back from a private school in Maaycha village. There have been instances when students have influenced principals and got others to write the exams for them. They will now be handed over to the police immediately and the principals do not have to wait for an FIR to be lodged against them,” the DIOS said.
 
 
