Coimbatore: Despite the decline in the stock markets, net inflows into equity mutual fund (MF) schemes continue to remain strong. Net inflows into pure-play equity MFs (excluding equity-linked savings schemes or ELSS) increased 9.5% month-on-month (m-o-m) to Rs 14,683 crore in February. Inflows advanced 5.7% m-o-m to Rs 16,268 crore on a net basis during the month for equity schemes (including ELSS), data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.

 While the benchmark Sensex fell 5.2%, the broad-based Nifty declined 5% in February after the union budget introduced long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on equities. The continuing increase in inflows is largely due to sustained inflows through SIPs (systematic investment plans), financial advisors and industry officials said. The growth in inflows comes despite the assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry declining 0.9% m-o-m to around Rs 22.2 lakh crore in February. 
 
 “SIPs are the principal reason for the strong inflows. SIP money is still flowing into pure-play equity funds,” said Srikanth Meenakshi, co-founder and COO, FundsIndia.com, an investment platform for MFs. “The SIP book is still going strong,” said Suresh Sadagopan, founder, Ladder7 Financial Advisories.
 
 “There are not too many options for investors as other asset classes are also not doing well,” he said.
 
 Gross inflows have recorded a decline. “This means that lump-sum investments are not coming in a big way. Investors are not stopping SIPs but have taken a cautious approach towards lump-sum investments,” Srikanth said.
 
 SIPs are done mostly in equity funds. The fixed income segment contributes only about 5% in volume terms and about 2% in value terms to overall SIPs. The MF industry has added about 9.26 lakh SIP accounts each month on an average during 2017-18, with an average SIP size of about Rs 3,300 per SIP account, AMFI data showed. MF SIP accounts stood at 1.97 crore at the end of January. The amount collected through SIPs exceeded a whopping $1 billion (Rs 6,644 crore in January), a 62.2% year-on-year increase. 
 
 Balanced funds, however, saw a sharp fall in inflows following the introduction of taxes on the dividend income of equity MF investments. Net inflows in these funds fell 34.4% m-o-m to Rs 5,026 crore in February. Balanced funds give dividends on a regular basis.
 
 Most investors have deployed money in balanced funds only to earn dividends. Balanced funds account for about 20% of the AUM of equity-oriented MFs. A large number of popular balanced funds, which invest more than 65% of their corpus in shares and hence qualify as an equity oriented MFs, pay monthly dividends..
 
 
