Vadodara: Farmers across the country will be able to buy fertilizers in smaller quantities close to their villages in the coming months.

 Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Ltd (GSFC) is all set to launch vending machines that will give out fertilizers in retail quantity to the farmers. The PSU will install the first vending machine in its premises in the city next month and later plans replicate the model across the country. 
 
 “The idea is to make availability of fertilizers easier, faster and in smaller quantities. As of now, fertilizer bags are sold only in 50 kg pack. So, for some farmers, 50 kg is more than they need while for others it is less. We want to change the way they buy fertilizers,” said A M Tiwari, managing director, GSFC. 
 
 “The vending machine that we will be installing will give out fertilizer in smaller quantities. The buyer has to carry a bag and request for the quantity he or her needs. They can buy even from one kg to any quantity they want. The person operating the machine will accept payment and enter the quantity in the machine that will give out fertilizer within minutes,” Tiwari told TOI. The buyer can avail of urea, ammonium phosphate (AS) and ammonium phosphate sulphate (APS) from the machine. 
 
 “We are installing a vending machine in our premises in Vadodara as pilot study and then keep 10 other machines in remote areas of Anand and Kheda. After working out all modalities, we plan to install such machines across the country. The agricultural ministry is excited about this project,” he added. GSFC has already got permission to install these machines in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Each machine will cost about Rs 8 lakh. 
 
 “The idea is to make fertilizers more affordable and accessible for the customers who often have to travel long distance to buy it. After studying the sale from the vending machines, we will increase its capacity too. Even people from urban areas, who have gardens in their home, can buy fertilizer from these machines,” Tiwari said. 
 
 
