CHANDIGARH: Despite the   and Haryana high court directions to the   district police in Uttar Pradesh (UP) staying any police action on a criminal complaint against a woman lawyer of the high court, the UP police have booked her on attempt to murder charges.

 On December 21, 2017, the HC had issued notice to the Shahjahanpur superintendent of police (SP) and Khuttar police station on a plea filed by advocate  , alleging that false complaint against her was registered at the behest of one Rajesh Beri of Ludhiana in UP, to harass her because of an old enmity.
 
 While asking the UP police to respond to her allegations by January 17, Justice R K Jain of the HC had also ordered, “to stay the proceedings initiated under section 160 of CrPC” against Jyoti Sareen. The case was to come up for hearing on January 17, 2018.
 
 However, she came to know on December 31, 2017, that she, along with her brother,  , has been booked for attempt to murder at Khuttar police station in Shahjahanpur district. Alleging that she was being wrongly implicated, Jyoti, a native of Hoshiarpur district in Punjab and practicing lawyer at Punjab and Haryana high court Chandigarh, would now be filing a contempt petition against the UP police.
 
 According to information, the UP police have booked Jyoti and her brother Deepak Sareen on complaint of Rafiulla, an employee of Rajesh Beri with whom Sareen family has a long-pending property dispute in Hoshiarpur.
 
 As per the complaint, Jyoti and her brother Deepak had visited the Beri family farm house at   village in Shahjahanpur on August 13, 2017 and had used abusive words against Rafiulla and also fired at him with a motive to kill him.
 
 “My brother, who is already under Punjab police protection because of threat from Rajesh Beri, was in Hoshiarpur and I was present at my Chandigarh residence on the alleged day on occurrence”, the woman lawyer claimed.
 
 She came to know about the Shahjahanpur district only when she searching for it online after receiving the notice from the UP police, Jyoti said, alleging that the stay orders were brought to the knowledge of the UP police on the same day of orders on December 21.
 
 When TOI contacted, Khuttar station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector R K Kushvah said they had booked her after she failed to join the investigation. When told about the HC stay order, Kushvah said the order was received by them after the FIR.
 
 
