Easily the most prominent green hotspot in Bengaluru, Cubbon Park’s sprawling foliage, crumbled pathways and withered benches provide the much-needed respite from the humdrum that the city is increasingly getting synonymous with. Officially known as Sri Chamarajendra Park, the ‘lung’ of the city is also home to a plethora of botanical and horticultural wonders, while its fringes are stamped with some of Bengaluru’s landmark architectural gems. While the park makes for an ideal place for long walks and for breathing in some fresh air, it doubles as an alternative space for a host of other activities too.

  Social activist  , who goes to the park every morning, describes the space as Bengaluru’s treasured natural heritage. “Cubbon Park is probably the only place that so beautifully merges the history and greenery of Bengaluru. Talking of public spaces in the city, this park is more environmentally engaging and less regimented than other similar spaces, which is a good thing, as it is time that people are allowed to reclaim public spaces. It is a creative zone, where children are taught to be more responsible towards the environment and their surroundings, while curated events make an interesting watch over the weekend. The park also has a global feel to it, as people from different cultures happen to come visiting. We, however, need more signage inside the park because it’s a big area, and also people should a little more careful and not litter the place,” she says. 
  gives you a tour of the various activities in the park…
 
  
 
 
  From poetry slams, puppetry acts, mini art exhibitions to theatricals and music performances as well as LGBTQ activities, weekends are often abuzz with open-air entertainment shows for people from all age groups. Photography shoots and heritage walks are among other popular activities in the park.
 
  
 
 
  You walk into the park, and the most common sight will be that of people strolling with their furry friends. Pet events, especially dog shows, are a regular on Cubbon’s calendar.
 
  
 
 
  Thanks to this fresh-air zone in the heart of the city, a lot of yoga and fitness enthusiasts use this space to break the monotony of their sedentary lifestyle and stay happy and positive. It’s also a good place to reconnect with nature.
 
  
 
 
  Street-side yummies are a major attraction for the people who visit   regularly. The park makes for a congenial place to engage in conversations with friends and family, or even share a thought with like-minded strangers.
 
  
 
 
  Spring is a good time to promenade along the park, almost as often as you can. The park is ladened with a variety of exotic and indigenous flowering trees — from tabebuia rosea to gulmohar. Sunsets and the bamboo grooves also provide a soothing respite from the bustling traffic.
 
 
