AHMEDABAD: Setting aside ideological differences, Patidar quota agitation leader   Patel and senior   leader Arjun Modhwadia met VHP leader   in hospital on Tuesday, a day after high drama which saw him “missing” and then being “found” in the evening in an unconscious state.

 Modhwadia said he met Togadia to wish him speedy recovery as “we respect our opponents in public life”.
 
 “BJP considers its opponents enemies and anti-nationals. What BJP did with their leaders Haren Pandya and Sanjay Joshi is public knowledge. That a leader like Pravinbhai who is associated with BJP and RSS has to come out in public to save his life, despite having Z+ security, is very serious matter,” the Congress leader said.  , the Congress incharge for Gujarat, sought security for the VHP chief.
 
 
 
 State Congress in charge Ashok Gehlot said the case against Togadia was registered while he was CM of Rajasthan. “He was arrested at that time too. But for a Z+ security protectee having to rush for his life despite being from the ruling party and having to express fear for his life, anticipating an encounter, is a total law and order failure. The government must ensure his security,” said Gehlot.
 
 After meeting Togadia, Patidar leader Hardik Patel said: “I do not believe that   is in danger but I firmly believe that the chief of the Hindu organisation (Togadia) is in danger. I must say that farmers are in danger and unemployed youths are in danger. Thus entire Hindustan (India) is in danger. People know who conspired in this plan to make Togadia disappear.” Hardik was responding to questions from reporters who asked him if he thought ‘Hindutva’ was in danger.
 
 Hardik said he and Togadia have differences over ideology but they both fight for some common demands such as sufficient income for farmers of the country. On Monday, Hardik had also raised doubts regarding the mysterious disappearance of Togadia.
 
 This came even as BJP and other saffron organisations maintained a studied silence. “We are clueless about the claims made by Togadia. It is not advisable for us to react on his statement,” a BJP leader said.
 
 Several leaders supported the party stance of staying away from the controversy and said the VHP chief was a habitual critic of the BJP leadership.
 
