AHMEDABAD: The final notification for the shrunk   buffer zone (ESZ) for   has finally been published in the Gazette of India. The   has been shrunk by about 69% according to the final notification published by the   committee. The shrinking process involved no objections or comments from stakeholders or local residents.

 
 Sources in the forest department said the boundaries have again been altered, from those specified in the draft proposal, to the cleared final proposal. The final published notification states: “The extent of eco-sensitive zone ranges from 2.35km to 4.84km from the boundary of the sanctuary.” The ESZ committee had last year fixed the ESZ limits at between 1.34km and 4.84km away from the sanctuary boundary.
 
 The gazette notification has a lower range of 2.35km instead of the 1.34km proposed last year. Last year, the ESZ committee had cut the ESZ upper range to 4.84km from 13km and the lower range from 2.35km to 1.34km.
 
 The ESZ committee, while clearing the final notification, recorded that no comments, objections or suggestions were received from local persons and stakeholders, in response to the draft notification published in 2015.
 
 Despite no objections from locals or stakeholders, the ESZ committee reduced the buffer zone. The final notification for the eco-sensitive zone for Nalsarovar sanctuary records that there were no comments, objections or suggestions received from local persons and stakeholders in response to the draft notification. 
 
 Experts say that if there were no suggestions or objections, the ESZ cannot be revised. The government, in a meeting in April when the recommendation were made, did not put on record the people’s objections or demands. Instead, they have just said that the “original proposal covered non-significant catchment areas which have no relevance to the wetland.”
 
 A senior officer, who declined to be identified, said that according to government, they had held a meeting with local people and stakeholders and after taking their suggestions into consideration, recommended the reduction of the ESZ. The government had said that original proposal covered non-significant catchment areas, with no relevance to the wetland. These areas were excluded from the ESZ in the revised proposal. It was also mentioned that the southern end of Nalsarovar was excluded. The officer said he was not aware why the final notification does not record the fact that locals and stakeholders had objected to the ESZ.
 
 
