NAGPUR: Four-year-old   from Hiwarkhed in Akola district is like any other kid accompanying her mother. But when asked about her father, she looks at her mother curiously. The unfortunate girl never saw her father Vinod, who committed suicide just two days before she was born, due to continuous crop failure and mounting debts.

 Her mother Chhaya, who works as a farm labourer to make ends meet, is even more unfortunate. Not only did she lost her husband, but also her brother for the same reason. Her mother was diagnosed with cancer, and father suffers from diabetes and blood sugar, putting a big responsibility on her young shoulders.
 
 Many farm widows like Chhaya, from across Vidarbha, converged at a two-day consultation on ‘Ensuring security of women farmers in farm suicide affected areas of Vidarbha’, organized by State Women's Commission and NGO Prakriti at Lonara.
 
 After their husbands ended their life due to agrarian crisis, all of them were finding it extremely difficult to make ends meet. Most earn hardly Rs2,000-Rs3,000 per month, in which they have to take care of all expenses. The banks and moneylenders harass them to repay loans availed by their husbands. Not surprisingly, none of them want their children to take up farming.
 
 All of them were extended a helping hand by the NGO volunteers during their crisis. Tears roll down their eyes as share their plight with TOI.
 
 “I was at my parents’ home for delivery when I received news about my husband’s death. My in-laws blamed me for it, and refused to take me back. With nowhere to go, I started residing with my parents and have taken up stitching to run the house and manage Devyani’s school expenses,” says an emotional Chhaya.
 
 Amol, son of Vandana Gavai, was sitting quietly in a corner. Unlike Devyani, he was lucky to have known and played with his father Anant. But his father’s suicide left him shocked, and forced him to work in the farm to help his illiterate mother. It, however, didn’t deter him from continuing his studies, and he is all prepared to appear for his Class X exam. “As a farm labourer, I work for hardly two to three days a week. My son helps run the house. He purchased a goat with his money, and now we’ve seven goats,” says Vandana.
 
 Amol adds he would never take up farming, after witnessing the plight of his hapless parents, and aspires to become an engineer.
 
 Most of the widows are unaware of various government schemes, while those who have applied are yet to get any benefit. “I had applied for compensation for crop loss in 2013 and received it five years later, last month. A meagre Rs5,000 was paid,” says Chitra Gaokhode, from  , whose husband consumed poison due to farm distress.
 
 All these aggrieved women have only the NGO to look towards for help, to run the household, educate their children and face other challenges. In the absence of any government schemes to take care of them, after their husband’s deaths, their only hope is the almighty.
 
 
