GURUGRAM: Alleged political meddling has come in the way of the municipal corporation in carrying out drives against illegal construction in the city, sources claimed. 

 Sources in the corporation said whenever they issued demolition notices to a section of encroachers, they got calls from ministers from the state or in some cases, even the Centre. 
 
 “We have been carrying out frequent drives against encroachments in the city. But in cases of illegal construction by some well-connected people, we are under immense pressure. We have sent them demolition notices, in some cases even twice. But we have been instructed not to act against them,” said an official requesting that he not be identified as he was not authorised to speak on the issue.
 
 The corporation has prepared a list of over a dozen illegal properties that it would have pulled had there been no alleged meddling. Many of these structures are on the Old Delhi-Gurugram road, the sources said. For instance, there are 11 illegal shops on the stretch near Ajit Cinema, according to officials. The corporation was also learnt to have prepared a list of illegal shops in the green belt of Surya Vihar and similar structures in the Gandhi Nagar Gali, Patel Nagar , near Jharsa Dam, Palam Vihar and Ashok Vihar. 
 
 According to the sources, these structures should have been demolished within this month had the officials not received calls from politicians asking them not to proceed. Sources pointed out that it was ironical that the corporation’s enforcement team had been carrying out drives to lift commercial establishments and vendor carts from several areas of the city but “helpless” against builders with political connections.
 
 Encroachment has been cause for concern for officials around the city and the issue had reportedly been raised in the previous house meeting of the enforcement team of the DTP, which had listed the problems they faced while carrying out drives against illegal construction.
 
 One of the DTP enforcement officials had earlier said: “We don’t have resources to carry out such drives in the city. Despite multiple complaints in this regard, no action has been taken yet.”
 
 
