Guntur: In view of the diarrhoea outbreak in Guntur city, Jana Sena Party (JSP) chief   has demanded the state government immediately declare a health emergency. He warned that JSP will give a bandh call if the situation does not improve in the next 48 hours.

 Kalyan visited Guntur government general hospital (GGH) and the diarrhea-hit areas of One Town on Friday. He consoled the family members of the diarrhoea casualties in the last 10 days. 
 
 He enquired about the health condition of those undergoing treatment at the hospital. Speaking to mediapersons, Kalyan blamed the state government for the chaotic condition of water supply lines in Guntur city. 
 
 “The CM is promising us a world class capital city. I request him to first provide safe drinking water to the people living just 10 km away from his residence," he fumed.
 
 He said the official mechanism has completely collapsed due to political interference resulting in the death of innocent persons. He said the government should be ashamed of what has happened in Guntur.
 
 “Can’t you appoint a senior IAS officer to probe the entire episode? How will Amaravati get global importance when you can’t protect the lives of people in Guntur city,” he asked. He asked the TDP leaders whether their reaction would be the same if the family members of ministers, and parliamentarians died of diarrhoea.
 
 He found fault with the government for not holding elections to the municipal corporation in the last eight years. Pawan criticised YSRC leaders for not attending the assembly session and raising the diarhoea issue.
 
 He said that people were not really bothered about the ex-gratia after losing their loved ones. He demanded that the government immediately restore the health situation in Guntur city to avoid facing public anger.
 
 He asked the TDP leaders to avoid from making remarks against him. He rubbished the TDP leaders’ charge that he was being pampered by BJP. 
 
 “Earlier, people alleged that I am Chandrababu Naidu’s pupet. Now, TDP people are saying that I am dancing to the tune of BJP. This is complete nonsense,” Pawan thundered.
 
 Pawan said that TDP lacked courage to fight the NDA government as it had several faults of its own. He claimed that he is the only leader who could confront with the NDA government at the Centre. He alleged that TDP and YSRSC colluded with each other to protect themselves from cases and enacting dramas on moving no-trust vote against NDA government.
 
 
