MANGALURU: Two students of the country’s premier technical institute NIT-K,   have been offered the   India’s highest salary package per annum. It’s the highest salary package (Rs 34.1 lakh per annum) in the history of this institution and as well as the region.

  and   are both students of the department of computer science. They did three months internships with Google at Hyderabad and Zurich.
 
 Anand, a resident of Kavoor, is the BTech topper and also got the highest salary package from Uber (Rs 36.6 lakh per annum). 
 
 He added: “My journey to explore Google started with the internship and later attended the pre-placement interview. It included two rounds of technical interviews on data structure and algorithms. It was followed by a project interview and led to my selection.”
 
 Mohit Reddy of Bengaluru said the internship at Zurich last year gave him an edge. “Earlier, I was interested in startups but after interning at Google, I learnt a lot about the company and fell in love with it,” he said, adding that he was pre-placed in the company after he passed two technical rounds and went for an interview recently. He’ll be working on Google Cloud Infrastructure in Poland. “Google was happy with my previous projects and it helped a lot,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Vijay H Desai, professor in-charge, department of training and placement, NIT-K, Surathkal said over 91% undergraduate students and over 53% post -graduate students of the institution have been placed in 2017-18 and many got attractive packages from companies like Google India, Uber, Arcesium, Goldman Sachs, Myntra Design, Oracle, Intuit, Microsoft, VMWare, Adobe, VISA, NETAPP, Qualcom, TI and Samsung R & D. The highest package of Rs 36.7 lakh per annum was offered by Uber followed by Google India which offered Rs 34.1 lakh per annum. 
 
 During 2017-18,   achieved an excellent placement with a record number of companies (255+) visiting the campus. Over 600 UG students got placed during the current year with the average package of Rs 9.25 lakh per annum.
 
 
