LUDHIANA:   police on Saturday booked four unidentified miscreants for looting an elderly yarn dealer at gunpoint after entering his house at HIG colony in Moti Nagar on the pretext of seeking Lohri donations. In his police complaint,   (78) said he and his ailing son Bharat Bhushan were at home when four unidentified miscreants entered his house around 8.30pm on Friday evening, and one of them asked him to give Lohri donations.

 Shanti Lal said before he could understand anything, the miscreants took out weapons and threatened him and his bed-ridden son. One of the miscreants then asked him to hand over the money or he would shoot him dead. They beat him up and snatched his son’s mobile phone after he tried to make a distress call. Lal added that the accused then took away Rs70,000 from him, and Rs52,000 from the almirah, apart from silver coins, idol of Goddess Lakshmi, and other silver articles. He told police that the accused remained inside their house for around 20 minutes, and while leaving they warned him not to tell anyone, or they would strike again. They also took away his son’s mobile phone.
 
 Police officials said Shanti Lal and his son were so scared that they did not tell anyone about it for 11 hours, and it was only on Saturday morning that they called the police after gathering courage. But even after informing the police, they had locked the door of their house, and opened it only after cops assured them they were from the police station.
 
 Moti Nagar police has booked four unidentified accused under Section 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt, or restraint in order to the committing of the theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and started further action. Investigating officer of the case, assistant sub-inspector ( ) Baldev Raj said there was no   at Shanti Lal’s house, and they were scanning cameras installed in the neighbourhood to dig out clues about the accused. Police officials said Shanti Lal lives with his ailing son Bharat Bhushan, while his wife and another son are dead. 
 
 
