The relationship between a top telecom executive in need of a   and his prospective donor is “shrouded in mystery”, according to a state official.

 “Firstly, the recipient’s annual remuneration is Rs 82 lakh, whereas the donor, a Bihar native who lives and works in Gujarat as a watchman, earns Rs 2 lakh a year. Also, the applicant had no photographs to prove that the prospective donor was his sister’s son, or that they have ever met during any social functions or weddings over the last two decades. The prospective donor’s wife didn’t know the name of the recipient’s children or wife, but was willing to support her husband part with an organ,” the official said. “The facts of the case didn’t add up. But a matching HLA report stumped us (HLA, or human leukocyte antigen, testing is done to find if the tissue types of two individuals are immunologically compatible),” the official said. KEM’s head of nephrology   said, “The chances of two strangers having an HLA match is one in a lakh and extremely rare.”
 
 
  
 The anonymous email said the executive was trying to “buy” the kidney for Rs 15 lakh and a job for the prospective donor’s son. It said the executive had even helped the man acquire   and PAN cards. The state official said the transplant request was rejected before the email’s arrival, and the email only solidified their suspicion that the donation was not altruistic. The HLA report created the same dilemma for the panel of experts at  , where the executive registered for transplant in February. “We too pointed out economic disparity. But the potential recipient asked us a question: that just because his ‘relatives’ are not financially well-off, does he not have the right to get an organ or live? Medically, there was a match in the tissue types of the (executive) with the woman presented as his sister, and hers with her son, presented as the executive’s nephew. We had no grounds to reject it outright. Since an element of doubt remained, we referred it to the state’s authorization panel,” said Jaslok CEO Dr Tarang Gianchandani. The hospital carried out detailed video interviews of all the parties, which can aid the investigation to a great extent.
 
 Dr Gauri Rathod, the nodal officer for the state’s organ transplant programme, said cases like this underline the need for trained investigative agencies to come on board. “Government officials or doctors are not best equipped to make such inquiries. Patients often come with perfect paperwork and smelling foul play is a challenge,” she said. In this case too, the application was accompanied by an   from Gujarat’s directorate of medical education and research. Rathod said that while the state routinely allows unrelated transplants, it is a prerogative to rule out any monetary exchange.
 
