NAGPUR: The   has failed to fill up 63 vacant teaching posts despite floating advertisements for the same in March last year. Over 2,000 applicants had submitted as many as 11 copies each of their bio data and other certificates to the NU administration. They were also told to submit Rs500 demand draft towards registration fees and informed that NU would conduct the interviews soon.

 A year after, there is absolutely no development on this front even as NU is battling severe shortage of teaching staff at its various departments and conducted colleges. The staff shortage has led to several bloopers, including goof-up in the convocation medals’ list and wrong question paper to BBA students. 
 
 
  
 
 No lessons have been learnt from the prestigious Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT) which couldn’t apply for autonomy despite fulfilling all the criteria, except teachers. Even the comptroller and accountants general (CAG) had passed strictures on NU for working with a meagre staff and not filling up several vacant posts. The situation would worsen as many employees are retiring every month.
 
 Registrar Puran Meshram passed the buck on state government’s directives to all traditional universities for reviving proposals for filling up teaching and non-teaching spots and reducing their strength by 25% in wake of automation.
 
 “At a meeting organized by higher education director Dhanraj Mane in Pune recently to discuss this issue, I told them that it was impossible to reduce the posts. We’re already working with bare minimum resources. Our strength had already reduced after formation of  ,” said Meshram.
 
 The director has asked NU to resubmit its proposal with added demands, said Meshram. “We also informed them that many of NU staffers are on the verge of retirement and the posts will have to be filled up urgently. At least four to five of our departments are working without a single teacher. 
 
 “The proposal is pending with the state finance department. After clearance, it would be sent to secretary for his approval. Not only NU, but proposals of all universities are pending and they too are facing similar problems,” Meshram said. 
 
 In a reply to RTI query raised by Abhay Kolarkar last year, NU had informed that it had 465 sanctioned teaching posts of which 243 were filled and 222 vacant. Last recruitment took place in 2013 during tenure of the then VC Vilas Sapkal when 72 posts were filled up. 
 
 
