In the latest episodes of  , Ranajay's family members seem to be happily discussing about the new born baby.   arrives and   informs others that he has spent last night at Shruti’s room.

 Ranajay tries to explain that he was taking care of ailing Shruti but his mother criticises him. He says that he had no choice. Iman also discloses that he went to buy milk for Shruti late night.   starts humiliating Ranajay.
 
 Ranajay decides to accompany Shruti to the clinic. They don’t want to take   to the hospital. He requests Mithu to take care of the boy.
 
 Ranajay’s father says that he is crossing his limits. The entire family starts humiliating Shruti too. They ask for her parents' address so that they can request them to take her away. Shruti tries to explain that she got married against her parent’s will. Since then they don’t talk to her. But nobody listens to Shruti.
 
 Rupkotha too humiliates her. She threatens Ranajay that she will inform his higher authorities about his character, which can also affect his career too. Unable to take anymore blame Shruti starts crying.
 
 Iman is also taking her new born baby to the hospital for regular check-up. Ranajay says that he will drop her too. But she refuses to share the car with Ranajay and Shruti. They start arguing.
 
 Shruti requests Iman to not misunderstand her. But Iman is too furious to understand anything. Iman declares that she will leave the home soon. Shruti suggests that Iman is taking wrong decisions, which she will regret later.
 
 Ranajay again requests Mithu to take care of Michil till they return. Mithu doesn’t know what to do. Other family members don’t want her to take care of the child. Rupkotha asks her to say no. But to everyone’s surprise Mithu shows her maternal instinct and informs that she will take care of Michil.
 
 Finally Iman goes to the hospital in a cab. 
 
 Ranajay brings gift for Iman to celebrate their marriage anniversary. He also gives a part of his savings which he had kept aside for their child along with a saree for Iman and gold ornaments. But Iman doesn’t understand his emotions. She asks that why does he want to celebrate the day. Ranajay gets emotional and says that he wants their relationship to be normal again.
 
 Iman says that it’s not possible since Shruti is still in his life. Ranajay tries to makes her understand that Shruti is in critical condition. She won’t live long. Iman asks him to send Shruti to a hospital. 
 
 Iman tells her that Shruti loves her. She also says that Ranajay loves her too but he is not able to understand the emotion. That’s why Iman will leave him soon.
 
 She also returns all the gifts to Ranajay. But he requests her to keep the money which he has saved for the child but she refuses that too. 
 
 Shruti comes to Iman’s bedroom to meet her baby. But she seems unhappy to see her. She asks Michil to give the gold chain they have bought for the child. Iman insults her and says that Ranajay must have bought it on her behalf. She gives it back to her.
 
