 Yousafzai, the youngest winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, has written a new book. The book is titled 
 and contains, "the personal stories of some of the incredible girls (Yousafzai) has met on her various journeys to refugee camps and the cities where refugee girls and their families have settled," according to the publisher, Little, Brown and Company.

  is famous as she was a vocal activist about a girls right to education in Pakistan, a right which was taken by the Taliban who had taken over her part of the country. As she spoke against the Taliban and was making a name for herself, the Taliban attmpted to assasinate her while she was in her schoolbus. Though the bullet hit her and her classmate, they both managed to survive though Malala was taken out of Pakistan to the U.K. for treatment and has been living there ever since.
 
 Ever the activist, Malala has only used the fame gained from this incident to further her cause and her speeches on woman rights and refugees have inspired many. She is currently studying at  .
 
 In 2015 she opened a school near the Syrian border to educate and train Syrian refugees, paticularly girls from the ages 14 to 18. The school is funded by her non-profit organisatin Malala Fund. All proceeds from her new book will be going to this fund.
 
 "What tends to get lost in the current refugee crisis is the humanity behind the statistics... We hear about millions of refugees, hundreds of migrants trapped on a boat or in a truck, but it's only when a truly shocking image appears in the news that people consider what's really going on. I know what it's like to leave your home and everything you know. I know the stories of so many people who have had to do the same. I hope that by sharing the stories of those I have met in the last few years I can help others understand what’s happening and have compassion for the millions of people displaced by conflict", Malala said on her upcoming book.
 
 This would be Malala's third book. Her first was a memoir, 
  and the second a picture book called 
 
 
