NEW DELHI:   headlined the first session of the IPL Auctions 2018 on Day 2 with Rajasthan Royals breaking the bank for the services of the Saurashtra bowler for a whopping Rs 11.5 crore, surpassing the Rs 11 crore price tag fetched by KL Rahul (KXIP) and Manish Pandey (SRH) the previous day, thus becoming the costliest Indian player so far at the auction.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Other notable buys included Australian pace bowler  , who took a hat-trick in the previous IPL season playing for Gujarat Lions, going for Rs 7.2 crore to Kings KI Punjab.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Afghanistan spinner Mujeeb Zadran fetched a hefty pay-check of Rs 4 crore from Kings XI Punjab, thus becoming the third Afghan player to be bought by an IPL franchise after Rashid Khan (Rs 9 crore to SRH), Mohammad Nabi (Rs 1 crore to SRH). 19-year-old left-arm chinaman Zahir Khan was the fourth Afghanistan player to be picked at the auctions. He went to Rajasthan Royals for Rs 60 lakh.
 
 Nepal legspinner Sandeep Lamichhane etched his name in history books after he was bought by Delhi Daredevils at the 2018   Auction. He thus became the first ever from his country to be sold at the auction. Lamichhane, 17, first came into limelight when he took a hat-trick against Ireland at the 2016 ICC U-19 World Cup as Nepal entered the quarterfinals of the tournament for the first time in their cricket history.
 
 Uncapped Karnataka spinner Krishnappa Gowtham was taken at a price tag of RS 6.2 crore that saw an intense bidding war between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Rajasthan Royals, with the latter snapping up the 29-year-old.
 
 In the capped bowlers’ bracket, Punjab’s Sandeep Sharma was picked for Rs 3 crore by Sunrisers Hyderabad while young guns Mohammad Siraj (Rs 2.6 crore) and Shardul Thakur (Rs 2.6 crore) went to Royal Challengers Bangalore and Chennai Super Kings, respectively.
 
 In the uncapped batsmen bracket, India under-19 star Manjot Kalra was bought by Delhi Daredevils for a base price of Rs 20 Lakh. Sachin Baby was picked by Sunrsiers Hyderabad for a base price for Rs 20 Lakh. UP’s Rinku Singh was taken by Kolkata Knight Riders for Rs 80 Lakh.
 
 In the allorunder’s bracket, India Under-19 Shivam Mavi went for Rs 3 crore to Kolkata Knight Riders while his teammate Abhishek Sharma was snared by Delhi Daredevils for Rs 55 Lakh.
 
 India discard Mohit Sharma also fetched a high price of Rs 2.4 crore and went back to Kings XI Punjab via the Right-to-Match card. Nathan Coulter-Nile was a bargain buy at Rs. 2.2 crore for RCB.
 
 In the allrounders’ bracket, Washington Sundar was picked by RCB for Rs 3.2 crore while the likes of Corey Anderson, Moises Henriques and Rishi Dhawan went unsold. Australian allrounder Ben Cutting went to Mumbai Indians at Rs 2.2 crore while Dan Christian was taken by Delhi Daredevils for Rs 1.5 crore.
 
 Most of the overseas allrounders were ignored by the franchise with the exception of JP Duminy (Rs 1 crore, Mumbai Indians), Chris Jordan (Rs 1 crore. SRH) and a few others.
 
 Notable exclusions included that of Tymal Mills, who played for RCB last season with a price tag of Rs 12 crore, going unsold with a base price of Rs 1 crore.
 
 Australian cricketers had a good day at the auction with most of the Big Bash League stand outs being picked up various franchises. Billy Stanlake was snapped up for Rs 50 lakh by SRH, Jason Behrendorff (Rs 1.5 crore) went to Mumbai Indians. Sydney Sixers player Ben Dwarshuis was taken by Rs .1.4 crore by Kings XI Punjab.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
