KOLKATA:  , the first patient in the eastern zone to undergo a  , was off the ventilation on Tuesday morning, a day after the surgery on Monday. Winning the first round of a long-drawn battle, his condition was stable for now. The 39-year-old man from Jharkhand sipped water. For lunch, he had fruit juice. In the evening, when he said he was feeling hungry, the nurses gave him tea. Doctors plan to start him on semi-solid food from Wednesday.

 Doctors said in heart transplant surgeries, most recipients needed a pacemaker to activate the heart after the operation. But for Dilchand, the heart started beating on its own within 10 seconds of being transplanted. “The next 72 hours are crucial as we need to keep him under constant monitoring so that he does not contract infection. We have to keep a constant eye to spot even the slightest signs of graft rejection. But so far, so good,” said Dr K M Mandana, director cardiothoracic and vascular surgery at Fortis Hospital Anandapur. Currently, all his medical parameters seemed normal. If all goes well, the patient could be discharged in two weeks from now.
 
 The patient is under immunosuppressant drugs and steroids so that he does not get infection. In fact, doctors said, Dilchand had to continue taking immunesuppressants even after he is discharge from hospital. “The patient might need immunosuppressant drugs for a long duration, even lifelong. Such drugs are expensive and that could be a concern for the family,” said Dr Tapas Ray Chaudhury, director cardiothoracic and vascular surgery.
 
 The tutor from Jhanjhi village, about 23km from Deoghar, has several hurdles ahead to overcome. The first is to fight off post-operative infections and the second is to ensure he has enough money to fund his medication once he is discharged from the hospital in Kolkata. Depending on the kind and brand of drugs, the cost could go up to as high as Rs 20,000 a month. The hospital itself has decided not to charge for the transplant and post-operative care as the family belongs to the below-poverty-level category. The Singhs also have got assistance from the Jharkhand government, which has, so far, granted him Rs 3.5 lakh.
 
 The future hardship notwithstanding, the family seemed optimistic about finding a way out. “We are thankful to Fortis Hospital that has been helped us even with our food and stay here. When we have come all this way, I am sure we will find a way ahead,” said Dilchand’s brother, Umesh.
 
 The medical team, including Mandana, Ray Chaudhury and cardiac anaestheologist and intensivist Dr Saikat Bandypadhay, is taking care of the patient.
 
