NEW DELHI: Within 90 minutes of the end of CBSE’s Class X Maths exam on Wednesday, the board declared that students will have to sit for a retest following reports of the question paper having been leaked. Re-examination will also be held for the Class XII Economics paper, which was also allegedly leaked and reported by TOI.

 Union Human Resource Development minister   said the leaks could be the handiwork of an organised gang and assured students that the ministry will take strict action against the guilty. He also promised to provide a more secure mechanism to carry out the exams.
 
 It is learnt that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Javadekar, expressing concern over the leaks.
 
 The Maths paper leak was a stinging embarrassment to CBSE, as the Class X board exams were being held after eight years. According to   sources, the board was apprised of “another” probable leak on Tuesday night itself.
 
 A CBSE statement said the board had taken cognisance of “certain happenings in the conduct of certain examinations”. It decided to re-conduct Class X Maths and Class XII Economics papers to “uphold sanctity of the board and in the interest of fairness to the students.”
 
 “Dates for fresh examinations and other details shall be hosted on the CBSE website within a week,” read the exam notice.
 
 While TOI received a handwritten version of the Class XII Economics paper on the day of the exam (Monday), the leaked Maths paper (also handwritten) was sent to this reporter on Tuesday night itself. It was received at 9.10pm.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that it had access to a handwritten paper, alleged to match with Set 1 of the CBSE Economics paper that the students had sat for on Monday. The Class X Maths paper too had been circulated widely in teacher and student groups, with some children in Bihar and Abu Dhabi also claiming that they had access to the “leaked” paper.
 
 However, this was not the only version of the leaked paper doing the rounds. Students TOI spoke to had scans of a printed exam paper that they claimed had been sent to them on Tuesday night. Students said many questions from the “leaked” exam paper figured in the actual Class X Maths paper.
 
 The handwriting in the leaked Maths paper sent to TOI was different from what has been sent in the case of Economics and Biology.
 
 A similar allegation of paper leak was made during the Class XII accountancy exam, which was also acknowledged by Delhi deputy chief minister, who ordered an inquiry into the matter. However, CBSE had denied that any leak took place, claiming that “all seals were intact at the centres”.
 
 Yet, it reported the matter to Delhi Police and a probe was ordered in the matter.
 
 Sources claimed that question papers of several other subjects had also been leaked during this year’s CBSE exams.
 
 Significantly, the retest for the two exams has been notified for all CBSE schools — across India and abroad. According to CBSE spokesperson Rama Sharma, this year all papers that we sent across Delhi, India and abroad had the same set of questions. This was a break from the norm, wherein four different groups of papers are made for Delhi, rest of India, schools outside India, and one for reserve. However, according to sources, since the paper was the same for all students, the damage is also large-scale.
 
 Officials in the PR department of the board said that they have no idea how far the leaks have spread, especially with the borderless access WhatsApp provides. However, they added that only these two papers will be cancelled “because we had credible information that it was a possible leak,” said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Police’s crime branch has questioned 25 people, including the printers of the question papers, owners of coaching institutes, security guards and members of criminal gangs that were earlier involved in cloning question papers. Raids were being conducted raids at 10 different places till late Wednesday night.
 
 This is not the first time CBSE exam papers have been leaked. In 2006, police uncovered the leaked CBSE question paper of Business Studies, while it was searching for suspects connected with the Varanasi bomb blasts. In 2011, three persons — Krishnan Raju (principal of government senior secondary school at Lapati, Car Nicobar), Rashid (executive engineer of the Andamans PWD), and Vijayan (a forest ranger) — were arrested on charges of leaking the question papers of the on-going CBSE exams. The question papers included those of Class XII Science and Mathematics.
 
 Director General of Police (DGP), Andaman and Nicobar Islands, had dismissed a radio operator, M P Arun, for his alleged involvement in the leak.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
