JAIPUR: Be it 58-year-old   or her 61-year-old husband  , both the natives of Jhotwara, had sleepless nights since they came to know that their son Vikramaditiya who had gone to   for a job was missing since October 2017. They did everything from having a trip to New Delhi to meet officials of various ministries, including external affairs, and embassies.

 Finally, their wait ended on Sunday when the parents talked to their son following the intervention of officials of ministry of external affairs (MEA). They have been assured that Vikramaditiya will land in New Delhi on Wednesday morning.
 
 TOI had carried a story ‘Jaipur family yet to trace their missing 23-year-old son’ on January 22. Following the report, the family got a call from the MEA and other officers who assured them to expedite the process of finding the couple’s son.
 
 “We had tweeted the news relating to our son to embassy officials and to various ministers, including external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj and even to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portal. Thereafter, on Sunday, we got a call from Riyadh and I was told that my son Vikramaditiya will speak to me. I could not handle it and handed over the phone to my elder son,” said an emotional Mahaveer Singh while talking to TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Singh said, “I spoke to my son. The officials also took possession of my son’s passport which was with the employer. 
 
 Now, after medical and other formalities, my son will land in Delhi on on Wednesday morning. It is the most happiest news for me and my wife,” Singh said while wiping off his tears.
 
 “Yeh to kaye maheenon ke baad Sunday ki raat theek se soyi hai (She slept properly after many months),” said Singh while talking about his wife.
 
 “Nobody helped us and some asked why have you sent your son?,” said Singh.
 
 Now, Singh along with his elder son  , will leave for Delhi to receive Vikramaditiya.
 
 “Bhai aa raha hai, kal to party karenge (Brother is coming, we will party tomorrow),” said Harshvardhan.
 
 Vikramaditya had left for Saudi Arabia through an agency on October 4. He spoke to his family last on October 20 and told them that he was mistreated as his employer has taken his mobile phone. Since then, the family has been in touch with various organizations, including Shree Rajput Karni Sena, Shree Rajput Sabha.
 
 
