CHANDIGARH: CBI on Monday sent ripples through the judicial circles when they chargesheeted one Gaurav Chaudhry and his two companies in the alleged   land   case. Chaudhry is related to a senior member of the higher judiciary. 

 The chargesheet, filed on February 2, says that Chaudhry and the two companies were beneficiaries of change of land use (CLU) licences which were given after the process for acquisition of farmers' land was notified.
 
 At least two attempts to contact the judge on Monday by TOI failed as the staff said the judge was busy.
 
 Chaudhry and his two companies - Flair Realtors Pvt Ltd and Metropolis Realtors - are among the 34 accused named in the alleged scam along with former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. They have been charged with causing farmers a loss of Rs 1,500 crore - after buying land worth Rs 1,600 crore for just Rs 100 crore - by creating a false fear that their land would be acquired by the government at dirt cheap rates.
 
 Chaudhry got CLU licence for 5 acres to set up school: CBI
 
 CBI has also found that Rs 57.39 lakh towards conversion and external development charges (EDC) for the CLU licence that Chaudhry obtained was paid from the accounts of Sukhinder Hooda and Arvind Walia.
 
 
 Sukhinder is Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s nephew and Walia, one of the big builders in Delhi and the NCR area, is also related to the judge. Walia also collaborated with Chaudhry’s companies for setting up of a school on the controversial Manesar land.
 
 
 The CBI’s chargesheet states that Chaudhry, as director of the two companies, had got CLU licence for five acres in Sector 80 of Manesar to set up a senior secondary school. He, however, purchased the land after a notification under section 4 of Land Acquisition Act was issued. CBI also found that Chaudhry had applied for CLU licence when the subsequent notification under section 6 was issued.
 
 
 While section 4 of the Act gives the government’s intention to acquire land for a public purpose, section 6 is the declaration.
 
 
 Chaudhry and two of his companies have been charged with criminal conspiracy read with cheating and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 
 
