GHAZIABAD: The daughter-in-law of former   allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling fan of her bedroom using a dupatta in Nehru Nagar on Monday. Sunita Tyagi’s body was first seen by her 15-year--old son Akash who had just returned from school.

  The 36-year-old woman hadn’t bolted the door and her family said she had been undergoing treatment for psychiatric disorder for the past five-six years. Sunita had dyed her hair but hadn’t washed it. Strips of tablets apparently prescribed to her by a psychiatrist lay strewn. Only Sunita’s mother-in-law Raj Kumari and her elder sister-in-law Babita were present at home. The others had gone for work while the children were in school. Circle officer I (City) Manisha Singh said: “A neighbour informed the police. By the time the police arrived, Sunita’s body had been brought down and rushed to a nearby private hospital, where she was declared dead on arrival. Marks were visible around the neck. The body has been sent for postmortem.”
 
 SHO (Sihani Gate) Vinod Kumar Pandey said the police had received information about the alleged suicide around 2.50pm. “No suicide note has been found so far. The woman had been under the treatment of a psychiatrist for the past several years.”
 
 In the three-storied house in Nehru Nagar,   lives with his wife on the ground floor, while his eldest son Ashutosh, who owns an advertising firm, lives with his wife and two children on the first floor. Sunita lived with her husband Sachendra, an accountant with Maharishi Dayanand Vidyapeeth in Govind Puram, and son Akash on the second floor. 
 
 Raj Kumari told the police Sunita had packed lunch for her son and even cooked for her husband. “She preferred to do all the household chores herself. We never found anything amiss with Sunita’s behaviour. Just two days back, she had visited her doctor,” Asutosh said.
 
  Baleshwar Tyagi was the MLA from Ghaziabad for three consecutive terms in 1991, 1993 and 1996. He was the revenue minister in the Kalyan Singh government in 1991. 
 
 When the BJP formed the government in a coalition with the BSP in 1996, he was made the panchayati raj minister. A year later, he held the post of education minister in the Kalyan Singh government.
 
 
