LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief   Yadav on Wednesday left political observers surprised when he drove down to veteran   leader Ram Krishna Dwivedi, reportedly to discuss strategy for the forthcoming bypoll for   seat.

 
 While Dwivedi’s name may not ring a bell for the new generation, he is famous among old-timers as a‘giant-killer’ who has the rare distinction of defeating an incumbent chief minister in assembly byelection of 1971.
 
 
 In 1971, after being appointed the chief minister in the government of Sanyukta Vidhayak Dal, TN Singh sought bypoll from Maniram constituency of Gorakhpur. The seat was held by   of Gorakhnath Math, but he had become an MP in 1970 after demise of his guru Mahant Digvijaynath.
 
 
 Dwivedi, a journalist and just 35, was the candidate of Congress while Singh was being supported by all opposition leaders. Stalwarts like Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Karpoori Thakur, Chaudhary Charan Singh and CB Gupta camped in Gorakhpur in favour of the CM. But Dwivedi won by 16,000 votes and Singh became the first CM in Indian history to have lost an election.
 
 
 With the Gorakhhpur and Phulpur byelections being touted as the semifinals before the big battle in 2019, SP chief on Wednesday reached out to Dwivedi to get some winning tips. And his famous victory in Gorakhpur dominated the talks.
 
 
 According to sources, Akhilesh called Dwivedi, senior even to  , a ‘father figure’ and listened to his advice with rapt attention.
 
 
 It was the first such outing by Akhilesh Yadav to reach out to Congress leaders before byelections for which he has already deployed his prominent leaders. When asked about his meeting with Akhilesh, Dwivedi remarked: “When two students meet, discussions obviously would veer around current affairs and politics,” giving ample hint about the reason for the meeting.
 
 
 While Akhilesh found it fit to seek advice from the Congress veteran, the grand old party didn’t find his opinion necessary for campaigning or candidate selection.
 
