PORVORIM : With the decision to modify the O’Coqueiro traffic signals at Porvorim proving counterproductive, the state government on Wednesday decided to return them to their earlier settings. Revenue minister and local MLA Rohan Khaunte said that authorities had been given four months to study vehicular movement and implement a different traffic plan.

 “The decision we have taken for now is to revert back to the old signal settings,” he said. “The   will be closed for traffic from B B   road. The second thing is to review the reasons for the lapses.”
 
 As part of the proposed improvements for traffic flow at the crucial junction, authorities will modify the existing traffic circle, install an adaptive traffic signal controller, and surveillance cameras with number plate recognition. 
 
 “We are looking at adaptive traffic signal controller that has a live video feed,” said director general of police  . 
 
 “The adaptive controller takes into account how many vehicles are coming from a particular direction and based on that, it decides the time of the signal.” 
 
 The adaptive traffic signal controller has an inbuilt computer that analyzes the flow of traffic on a real time basis and then decides the duration of a signal. 
 
 “If traffic coming from Panaji is more and if there are just 10 vehicles are coming from Calangute, the timing has to be different. That dynamic allocation of the signal timing is decided by a computer based on traffic flow,” Chander explained.
 
 The proposals were made at a review meeting called to evaluate the decision to remove the barricades at the O’Coqueiro junction which prevented traffic from BB Borkar road from crossing on to   road towards Calangute. The barricades were removed on a trial basis. The move caused significant inconvenience to motorists and traffic police manning the junction.
 
 Officials from PWD, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and Traffic Police participated in the meeting and concurred that the move had created further hindrances.
 
 
