SONIPAT: A 40-year-old man slit the   of his wife and sons in Sonipat early on Saturday before hanging himself from the ceiling fan.   recovered a suicide note in which he accused his wife of having an affair with one of his friends.

 Police said that the victims were identified as Satish, his wife Jyoti (38) and their children, Lakshay (14) and Aryan (12). The matter was reported to them around 8.30am by  , the family’s landlord, who was the first person to notice the unusual lack of activity in the rooms the family had been living in for the past four months.
 
 Surender told the cops that the boys normally left for extra classes in school every Saturday, but when he noticed no one leaving the house in the morning, he called Satish to make sure everything was alright. “When there was no response to my calls, I phoned Praveen, Satish’s brother who lives nearby,” a cop quoted the landlord as telling them. “Since he too did not have a clue to what had happened, we called the police.”
 
 A police team rushed to the house and took Praveen’s help to break open the door in the rear. They found the bodies of Jyoti and the two boys on the bed, while Satish’s was hanging from the ceiling fan. 
 
 The cops said that the man seemed to have killed his family with a sickle that he had purchased a week ago. The sickle was discovered beside the woman’s body.
 
 Narender Kumar, SHO (Civil Lines), said that all four were taken to the hospital, where each was declared brought dead. He disclosed that the quartet had last been seen by neighbours around 10.30pm on Friday. Soon after a few neighbours heard the couple arguing, everything had gone quiet.
 
 Police found the suicide letter lying on the bed. In the one-page note, Satish had written in Hindi that he had found out about his wife’s affair with one of his friends a few months ago. He said that he had tried to make her see reason, but she had continued talking to that man and meeting him as well.
 
 Satish expressed his exasperation at failing to change his wife’s mind, noting that he had also approached her family about the matter some time ago, only to be rebuffed. This not only angered him, but, Satish stated, he realised he did not have the stamina to go on like this and so was taking this extreme step. 
 
 He confessed he was killing his sons, who studied in   and V, since there would be no one to take care of the boys.
 
 Police said that they had registered a case under the Indian Penal Code, invoking Section 302 (punishment for murder), 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) against the four people and would make arrests, if necessary, as the probe progressed.
 
 
