SRINAGAR/JAMMU: Pakistani forces violated the ceasefire on Sunday morning and resorted to indiscriminate shelling, killing five members of a family and injuring two others in Mendhar area along the LoC in J&K’s   district. The two injured people were airlifted to   for treatment.

 
 The ceasefire violation came amid heightened diplomatic tension between the two countries over alleged harassment of diplomats.
 
 “Pakistan began heavy unprovoked firing around 7.45am which last for four hours. Pakistan forces fired automatic and small arms and mortars, and targeted civilian localities deep inside Indian territory — 3-4 km from the LoC. There is no   deployment or any installation in the area,” a defence spokesperson said in Jammu.
 
 The deceased were identified by cops as Mohd Ramzan, his wife and their three sons. The couple’s two injured daughters were airlifted to a Jammu hospital.
 
 "Pakistan continues in its cowardly design of targeting innocent civilians, their homes and livestock in villages close to the LoC. The deliberate provocation has resulted in the loss of five precious and innocent civilian lives,” the Army spokesperson said.
 
 DGP SP Vaid confirmed the death of five civilians and said the police began operation to evacuate people from forward areas. “Five civilian deaths have been reported in the Pakistani firing. The district administration has airlifted two critically injured minor girls after preliminary treatment at a Rajouri hospital to Jammu,” he told TOI.
 
 “Anguished to hear of five people losing lives in the crossfire along the LoC in Poonch. My deepest condolences to their family,” CM Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 “Peace is the only way forward. Initiatives were started by former PM AB Vajpayee ji with his Lahore bus journey & were later carried on in the same spirit by PM Narendra Modi. Sadly they were sabotaged at Pathankot. We need to get on the right track if we want to save the people of J&K,” she said in another tweet, referring to the 2016 terror attack on an air force station in Punjab.
 
 
  
  
 
