Amritsar: A day after former president of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) Charanjit Singh Chadha got interim bail in the sexual harassment case, its management cancelled the executive committee meeting slated for January 10. Earlier, it had cancelled the general house on January 2. The meetings were convened with a single-point agenda to approve the suspension of Chadha and his late son Inderpreet Singh Chadha from the primary membership of CKD.

 “We have postponed the meetings and will announce new dates soon,” CKD secretary Narinder Singh Khurana told TOI on Saturday. He said that meetings had been postponed due to death of Inderpreet, who had committed suicide on January 3. 
 
 “Technically Chadha is still CKD president since he appointed Dhanraj Singh as the officiating president due to his absence,” Khurana said, adding that CKD office-bearers had only recommended suspension of both Charanjit and Inderpreet but it was the 31-member executive committee that had to approve recommendations by three-fourth majority that was to be approved later by general house before actual suspension of both.
 
 Sources added that a group of CKD executive members aligned with Charanjit were actively pursuing to get suspension recommendation proposal dropped in executive committee meeting so that he remained a member and could later on decide about the presidentship, besides there would be no need for the general house.
 
 When asked how to control the damage done to CKD’s reputation after four of its members, namely Surjit Singh, Inderpreet Singh Anand, Hari Singh Sandhu and Nirmal Singh, were booked by police following suicide by Inderpreet, Khurana replied, “They could have business interests with the Chadhas but CKD has nothing to do with their personal and business life.”
 
 According to sources, a group led by senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders was in a bid to wrest control of the CKD management even as Akal Takht jathedar has already announced that the high priests would take decision on running the Sikh body. The Takhat had already summoned Chadha to appear before Sikh high priests following an objectionable video of his with a woman that went viral on the internet on December 26, 2017.
 
 
