Got that loving feeling coming on and looking for a hug or kiss from your better half? Or want to congratulate someone on a promotion they’ve just got? But you also want to do more than hit the send button for an emoji on your smart phones to express that. Mumbaikars feeling something similar have found a way to do that — instead of texting, they are sending out large cut-out emoticons to their pals and loved ones around town. Clearly, it’s all about giving a personal touch to the emoji.

 
 
 It’s a given that today, emojis are used to convey practically every emotion there is. When you want to laugh at a joke, wink, express anger or even look bored — these virtual expressions convey all that effectively. Taking that concept further are the new versions, aka ‘postcard plus emojis’, which are made of a washable material. 
 Says  , who came up with the concept, “We live in a virtually-fuelled digital era. And as convenient as technology has made our lives, it’s left ‘expressions’ a little cold. Today, it’s all about text messages, statuses, captions and pictures that have been confined inside our phones.” He thought of evolving the old-school form of expression and bringing it back to the physical world. “Since virtual expressing didn’t seem adequate and fulfilling, we thought why not create a new avatar for them. Imagine what it would be like if somebody opened a package to find a real heart-eyes emoji versus getting a tiny flat picture of one on the phone? That is the core idea behind it,” he explains. 
 And Mumbaikars, caught on to the idea in a big way, are sending these cute,   to friends, lovers, family members and just about, anyone. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Andheri-based entrepreneur   sent a heart-eyes emoji to a friend for her birthday on November 30. “She absolutely loved it and had never received a greeting like this; it seemed so different from the usual text message. She’s now using the ‘gift’ as décor piece on her cupboard shelf,” he grins. 
 Sheetal Palav, a marketing executive, says she sent about five or six of these emojis since the New Year started. “I’m a huge fan of sending postcards and have a lot of them from travels abroad and friends. I’ve got the idea from my father, who used to send postcards to his friends as far as Russia. When I saw these new postcard-style emojis, I was keen to add them to my collection.” The reaction of all her friends to her new greeting came as a surprise to her. “I sent a few to my ex-roommates in Bangalore and they were like, ‘Oh my God, this is so amazing!’ People actually loved the poop emoji the most, I have no idea why, but they love it,” she laughs, adding that she sent four such emoticons to four of her friends.
 Sankesh Mehta, who used to live in Mumbai, sent an embarrassed face emoji to his girlfriend, when he moved away from the city. “We had a small misunderstanding, so I thought it would be a nice way to surprise and melt her anger by sending a smiley cut-out. And it worked; it changed her mood instantly to see this in her hands,” he smiles, adding that he sent a party emoji to a friend who got engaged since he couldn’t attend the function. 
 
 
 
 You go on to the online store, pick the emoji you want to send, write a personalised message you want to send along with the giant emoji on the postcard and fill in the recipients address details. The company then prints the postcard-emoji and sends it across. You can have it delivered to yourself as well. The size of each varies from 10-12 inches.
 
 
 
 A well-known dictionary had even named the ‘Face with Tears of Joy’ emoji as their word of the year.
 
 
 
  
 
 
