MUMBAI: In a path-breaking ruling, the   has directed Maharashtra’s Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) to invite bids from builders to help 800 slum-dwellers in Santacruz. The residents were stuck in a 30-year struggle for permanent roofs over their heads. In a unique feature, the slum-dwellers are also owners of the over-five- acre plot, observed the SC.

 Thursday’s order, a first-of-its-kind in a slum scheme, saw the SC exercising its sparingly used powers to disregard claims by two builders to be the slum-dwellers’ chosen ones, and instead directed the SRA to select a “renowned builder” with the “best offer” and set a two-year deadline for completion. It, however, said the case cannot be treated as a precedent.
 
 It didn’t preclude any builders from bidding but tasked SRA, which will also monitor the project, to choose only after ascertaining their “expertise and financial viability” and a Rs 200 crore bank guarantee to ensure project completion.
 
 The SC bench of Justices Madan Lokur and Deepak Gupta was moved by the plight of slum-dwellers into invoking its special powers to pass orders necessary for “complete justice”, under Article 142 of the Constitution. 
 
 It observed how more than 800 slum-dwellers resided in “sordid conditions” despite having had entered into an agreement with Susme Builders more than three decades ago.
 
 Susme Builders had in SC challenged a 2014 ruling of the Bombay high court which had upheld an SRA order removing it as developers of the project on grounds of unjustified delay in completion and lack of 70% consent from slum-dwellers. The SRA had in 2012, while cancelling Susme, allowed another builder JG Developers signed up by the slum-dwellers to complete the project.
 
 The slum-dwellers society’s managing committee later cancelled JG Developers too and re-signed Susme Builders in September 2014. The SC. which had in March 2015 appointed it former Judge B N Srikrishna to assess which of them had 70% support of slum-dwellers to merit their continuation, held that neither did.
 
 The SC ruling agreed with the HC view that “consent once given should not be permitted to be withdrawn” and that “voting inter se developers should not be done…as it would lead to an unholy practice of developers trying to buy out slum-dwellers and no scheme would attain fruition.” The proper course is that if the builder who is the first choice doesn’t get 70% support, the second one can be considered, said the SC, adding, “This is a very unusual case. Both contesting developers are not entitled to any relief. It is our duty to ensure that these owners who also happen to be slum-dwellers do not live in sub-human conditions for eternity. It is more than obvious that two rival developers and office-bearers of society were playing with the lives of large number of slum-dwellers…It was the builder who was the biggest gainer as the advantage of higher FSI was cornered by the builder.”
 
 The sprawling slum land in Kole Kalyan village of Santacruz would be worth “thousands of crores”, estimated the SC. The slum-dwellers formed themselves into a society, Om Namo Sujlam Suflam CHS. The original owner of the private land was Ardeshir Cursetji Pestonji Wadia Trust. While litigating to have the slum-dwellers evicted, the Trust, in 1985, transferred the land to the society following a consent order. “The peculiar facts of the case”, said the SC, makes these slum-dwellers “virtually the owners of the land as members of the owner society”.
 
 The slum-dwellers barely benefitted from the agreement with the two builders, said the SC. As “encroachers” they were legally entitled to free 269 sq ft flats, but as “land owners”, the SC said, “we see no reason why they should also not be compensated for price of land”, with “cash or extra floor space”, as any other land owner would have been.
 
 The society had appointed Susme Builders to redevelop the land in 1985 and was promised new houses of 180 sq feet carpet area. But no development took place for six years. In the meantime, laws changed allowing free flats for eligible slum-dwellers under a state scheme and later slightly larger flats.
 
 The case had a chequered history even before Susme Builders had challenged its ouster. There were PIL and petitions by the builder and society over various issues, including green norms. The state finally said only parts of land was the less grave, CRZ-II. The government had also appointed former housing minister Chandrashekhar Prabhu to assess complaints over rehabilitation. After a new builder was brought by slum-dwellers, fresh rounds of litigation had sprung in the Bombay high court.
 
 In June 2014, when the HC bench of Justices M S Sonak and S J Vazifdar upheld the SRA order against Susme Builders, it had observed how “a project under the Slum Act, undoubtedly has public interest involved in its efficient and expeditious completion. Such public interest, far outweighs any commercial interest of the petitioner (builder). Apart from two out of the 15 proposed buildings and some vestiges of a transit camp, there is no other development at the site”.
 
 The two seven-storey buildings, given occupancy certificate in 1998, rehabilitated only 128 families in the last 30 years. Susme Builders, represented by legal luminary Fali Nariman, argued that the SRA and HC orders were incorrect, and it be allowed to continue as developer. But the SC held that “Susme was itself guilty of delaying construction for no reason at all…and was treating the slum dwellers only as a means of making money”.
 
 And about, JG Developers, represented by former additional solicitor general Gopal Subramanian, the SC had no kind words either. “The conduct of JG Developers is not above board…it gave false promises... failed to get support of even 30% slum-dwellers” thus is not entitled to any relief.
 
 
