NEW DELHI: The role of  's ( 's) senior management, as well as some of its former top executives, has come under the government's scanner, even as the crisis-hit bank suspended eight employees, including two general managers, and shifted its HR head.

 
 With Friday's suspensions, the number of employees suspended in the alleged fraud by   has risen to 18, including 10 who faced action last month. The two suspended general managers were earlier in Mumbai, sources told TOI. The general manager for human resources was transferred for lapses in not moving key accused Gokulnath Shetty out of the Brady House branch for several years.
 
 Officials, however, indicated that action may not be limited to the current set of executives as the government is of the view that lapses were widespread, resulting in the scam going on undetected for over six years. "The finance ministry has made it clear that there are no holy cows and action will be taken against anybody who has violated rules or not discharged supervisory function properly," said a source who did not wish to be identified.
 
 As pointed out by TOI in its edition on Friday, there were several lapses on the part of PNB management and executives - ranging from HR and systems to inspection and audit - that resulted in largescale bungling by two employees, led by a deputy manager, who went on issuing over 200 letters of undertaking (LoUs), or guarantees that enabled the accused companies of Nirav Modi and   to raise funds from other banks.
 
 "He would simply issue LoUs, put them in the file and this went unnoticed for years," said an official.
 
 On Thursday, PNB managing director and CEO Sunil Mehta had said the bank itself detected the fraud and reported it to investigative agencies and authorities as part of its "clean banking" policy, a statement that is being seen as a defence of the management's role.
 
 Apart from PNB executives, some retired and serving officials, who have moved to other entities, are under the lens as the government believes that the embezzlement started during their tenure. Some of them, who are at senior positions in other banks at present, provided funds based on forged papers issued by the PNB's Brady House branch.
 
 Lenders such as Allahabad Bank, Union Bank of India and SBI are among those which had provided funds to Modi and Choksi's outfits based on the LoUs issued fraudulently.
 
