Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com

 At a recent event organised in the city, veteran actress   was at her candid best. Although the event was titled Motherhood and work-life balance, the 'Chupke Chupke', 'Amar Prem', 'Mausam' and 'Aradhana' actress spoke on a variety of subjects including the positive changes in Bollywood since when she was an active part of the industry, her marriage to Tiger Pataudi and her grandson Taimur. 
 
 
 The doting and protective grandmother in Sharmila Tagore came to the fore when one among the audience gushed about her grandson, one-and-a-half-year old   and how everyone found him to be one of the cutest kids. Flashing her dimpled smile, Sharmila said, “He’s very sweet. He’s talking now but not in sentences, yet. He does say Abba and Amma sometimes, but not that clearly. It’s more of mumbling right now. Taimur is like any other child playing his usual things. He likes his car and his toys and he likes books.” But the veteran actress also made it clear, in the same breath, how she disapproved of the attention showered over the kid by people and on social media. “I don’t approve of this social media attention and what they (people) are doing to Taimur. People are really stalking him! They are in front of his school, the play school that he goes too, following him when he’s going with his parents and it’s not really a good thing. Because, at the moment he’s young but he’s still understanding cameras and stuff. So one can’t really not go out, to avoid this attention. There should be some kind of request to the people to lay off Taimur. Or maybe another baby will arrive someday and they will get bored of this one,” she said. 
  
  Taimur photographed with his parents Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan (BCCL) 
 
 
 
 
 When asked about the changes in the Indian film industry over the years, since when she was an active part of it, Sharmila pointed out on a positive note that she was happy with the way Bollywood has progressed over the years. From the facilities provided to the actors, to the perception of the people having changed for the better about the Bollywood,she said, “Earlier Bollywood was a fly-by kind of business which few wished to be involved in. Now Bollywood is good business and everybody wants to be associated with films. This is definitely a very significant change that I have seen in Bollywood. In our times, there used to be no scripts. We would improvise on the sets. Now everyone is handed a bound script. With my Bengali background, I wasn’t too fluent in the Devanagri script, so for me to get a last minute dialogue to speak used to be impossible. Also, now nobody can come late on the sets. In our times it was fashionable for the heroes to walk in late on the sets. It was a totally hero-dominated industry. They would breeze in at 11-12 O’ Clock and then would want to extend the shoot till late at night and some of us couldn’t do that because we had children and family waiting at home. Now things are far more democratic in Bollywood. Everybody treats everybody as equal. Most of us come from similar backgrounds now, are educated and are thorough professionals.”
 She further added, “The sets are now far more comfortable. My God! The only time I used to regret being a woman was when I had to use the toilets on sets when I would be shooting. In our times the toilets used to be terrible. Now there have been many improvements, actors have huge vans with separate washrooms. The audience’s acceptance of actors has increased. Like Saif played a villain in ' ' and he was a hero in 'Love Aaj Kal'. So he was accepted in both roles. Even Priyanka Chopra played a vamp in one of the movies and people still love her as a heroine in others. But in our time, we couldn’t do that. If I played a vamp I would be rejected by the audience outright. I remember Shashikala and I were shooting in a rural place and were dying to use the washroom. So we went to a house and said ‘May we use your washroom?’ and they said ‘You’re most welcome but ‘she’ can’t enter the house’, pointing to Shashi. So that was the kind of effect our roles had on people at that time.” 
 
 
 Having married young at 24-years of age, Sharmila enjoyed a successful stint in Bollywood even after having a child, a thing unheard of back then in the late 60s and 70s. Sharmila romanced   in 'Aradhana' and then played his mother in the same film, even as she was mother to son Saif in real life. Talking about how she paid no heed to all advice given to her to not marry at the peak of her career, Sharmila said, “Everybody advised me against marriage and people said that you’re at the peak of your career and marriage may affect it. But I feel there is a timing in everybody’s life. In fact, acting is all about timing! Even in real life, at least I have that very strong sense of timing to do things when they are meant to be done. Like when to stop colouring your hair, when to do whatever, and to live by it too. So I thought this is the age I want to get married. I didn’t want to get married at the age of 40. I wanted to get married by 23-24, which I did. Then there was an awareness that I want to start my own family because I come from a joint family. I had my priorities straight. But of course, it (such bold decisions) come at a price. I had to give up a lot of films. I didn’t work in 'Khilona', 'Caravan', 'Haathi Mere Saathi', 'Tere Mere Sapne' and they all went to become hits. So you lose some, win some. But I didn’t fall off the ladder, so to speak because 'Aradhana' was released after I was married and it became a runaway hit. 'Amar Prem', 'Mausam', all these films released after I got married and had Saif. And it was alright. But I think if you give a long gap in between, it doesn’t work. Mumtaz gave a long break and made a comeback, Madhuri Dixit gave a long gap and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan gave a long gap and tried to come back. Those things perhaps don’t work. But if you stay in front of your audience and they see you changing over the years then that connection doesn’t break. But of course, if your movies are not doing well and they are sick and tired of seeing you, then that’s different.” 
 
  
    and Sharmila on their wedding day (BCCL) 
 
 
 
 
 Talking abut her much talked about and celebrated romance and marriage to former Indian skipper Tiger Pataudi, Sharmila said, “Our story is all very ordinary, really. Ours was a love marriage, as you all know. It was that you meet and like that person, which I did. Then one thing led to another. We dated for a few years and it didn’t change our opinion of each other. So, after a while we decided to get married. And we left our respective families to deal with it. We stayed in Bombay so we had no idea of this Hindu-Muslim thing. We were very young then, thank God! And we lived in another age. This was in late 1960s when we got married. There were reactions, most certainly there were, to our union, but we were blissfully unaware of them. I remember I woke up one day and there were two gentlemen in my sitting room. They had been sent from Delhi to protect me. I told them I don’t need any protection but they thought otherwise. There were comments in Delhi and there were comments in Mumbai about our marriage. I remember my father getting letters advising him otherwise. For Tiger’s baraat, there were some guests coming from Pakistan also, so there were some military people also called in but nothing untoward happened at our wedding. My parents and his mother must have faced whatever worry there was. But there were lots of advice, to give up work, to not give it up, to marry and not to marry. I remember Yash (Chopra) telling me to not get married at that stage in life and someone else telling me that nawabs are the really wild types, they said ‘they don’t have nine-to-five jobs’ and Tiger was told that actresses are like ‘that’. So nobody gave us beyond one or two years but we carried on for much longer than expected by others. So that was it,” she ended with a smile. Commenting on her husband not being much of her fan, Sharmila said candidly, “Tiger was never involved in my career. His favourites were   and Vyjanthimala. He used to be very pleased to see my photograph on the front page or receiving the Filmfare Award but he said ‘please don’t expect me to see your films’. We never interfered in our careers. He would look after the kids while I was away at work, he was a very supportive and very caring husband.”
  — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
 
