NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) headquarters in Civil Lines, where thousands of people visit every day, was found to be a potential fire trap by the fire and emergency services department (FESD).

 An FESD inspection report on this seven-storey building identified a series of shortcomings — from lack of mechanical ventilation in parking lots to no installation of firefighting systems, except on the ground floor. Even on the ground floor, which houses the office of municipal commissioner, there is no fire alarm panel.
 
 
  
 The fire audit was carried out after the new municipal commissioner   inspected the building. Following his directions, on May 9, the Civic Lines fire station officials inspected the Chhatrapati Shivaji administrative building after chief fire officer   served a three-hour prior notice to the NMC’s executive engineer   to inspect the new administrative building under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measure Act, 2006.
 
 The inspection report was submitted to Jaiswal. The FESD has asked the executive engineer’s office to comply with the firefighting systems within 30 days.
 
 The audit also exposed lapses in firefighting systems in lower floor where the office of Civil Lines fire station, city’s fire control rooms and disaster management cell control room are situated. On this floor, the shortcomings included lack of manually operated fire alarm system and absence of fire alarm panel.
 
 On the ground floor, the shortcomings included absence of manually operated fire alarm system and no connection of this floor with the emergency staircases. The team found hose reel box but without pipe. A sprinkler system has been installed on the entire floor that makes it safe in case of any fire mishap. 
 
 On the next day of the inspection, the civic administration started installing 10 fire extinguishers on each floor.
 
 Even the first floor, where the office of chief executive officer of   is situated, too was not safe as the wet riser has not been connected with the hose reel system. The sprinkler system too did not cover the entire floor.
 
 The situation on the five floors above was no different. The shortcomings in the remaining floors included half-installed sprinkler systems, no smoke detection system, no hose reels etc.
 
 The city operation centre (COC) of Smart City Solutions Project office on the seventh floor too lacks firefighting system. There are no fire-resistant doors, no installation of sprinkler system and no hose reel and its boxes.
 
 A senior official from the executive engineer’s office said the office has already started the process to make the building fireproof and comply with the firefighting norms.
 
 
