HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths trapped a sub-inspector(SI) of   police station while he was taking 20,000 bribe from an advocate, charged under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On seeing the sleuths, the SI ran from the spot, but after a 2-km hot chase,   personnel proved they were fitter than their khaki counterpart. 

 On February 14, a marble polish worker from   lodged a complaint with Chaitanyapuri police against 28-year-old advocate, B Karthik, also of Kothapet, alleging the latter was stalking his 17-year-old daughter, an engineering student. The complainant alleged   had been following his daughter for six months, forcing her to fall in love with him and he also forcibly made her sit on his two-wheeler. 
 
 Based on the complaint, police slapped cases against Karthik under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 354-d (stalking) of IPC and Section 12 of POCSO Act. The investigation was entrusted to sub-inspector G Eroji. 
 
 
 
 
 After a probe, Eroji demanded ₹20,000 bribe from Karthik to do an official favour. “The bribe was demanded to file an early chargesheet and in favour of the complainant,” an ACB official said.
 
 Karthik, who is an advocate, lodged a complaint with the ACB and a trap was laid at LB Nagar court complex where the SI wanted to meet the complainant to collect the bribe.
 
 When the complainant contacted the SI on court premises, the latter asked him to come to an alley in Srinagar Colony at 5pm. The complainant reached the alley and the SI came on a two-wheeler to collect the bribe. After checking the surroundings, SI Eroji took the bribe from the complainant and the ACB sleuths swooped on him.
 
 But, the SI saw the sleuths in plain clothes approaching him and ran. “He abandoned his two-wheeler and fled. We gave him chase on foot,” said an official, part of the team. Finally, after chasing the cop for 2 km, the 10-member team of ACB, comprising a DSP and four inspectors, managed to nab him.
 
 ACB sleuths conducted chemical test on the road while residents of the colony made enquiries about the men chasing a cop in uniform. The accused will be produced before the court on Saturday.
 
 
 
