BHOPAL: The media calls them ‘Karni Sena’ activists, and they don’t mind, so long as their purpose is served — a ban on the screening of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s controversial film ‘Padmaavat’.

 In reality, it’s not Karni Sena but   that is spearheading the campaign against Padmaavat in MP. And those at the forefront of the agitation are well educated, affluent members of society. Their grouse is that films turn heroes and historical characters into caricatures.
 
 The president of Madhya Pradesh Rajput Samaj is Lt. (retd)  , and IIM-Indore graduate   heads the organization’s youth wing.
 
 After serving the Navy, Bhadoria founded a company that is into several businesses, including construction. Presiding over a meeting of Rajput Samaj at its under-construction headquarters in Char Imli on Wednesday afternoon, Bhadoria appeared convinced that ‘Padmaavat’ should not be release at any cost.
 
 When asked what is the problem with the film, he said, “It’s simple. Historical characters who are revered should not be portrayed in films in a ‘fictional’ manner. Giving a disclaimer that it’s a work of fiction isn’t enough. Why do you have to make films on such icons and change people’s perception of them?   will make money but what about Padmavati, who is regarded as a Goddess in Rajasthan?” 
 
 Asked why he thinks the movie will change people’s perception of Rani Padmavati, he says: “Bhansali made Bajirao Mastani, too. Bajirao Peshwa was a great Brahmin warrior. He won 40 battles in succession. But, whoever saw the film would treat him as a ‘joker’ besotted by a woman and towards the end of his life, even hallucinating about her. It was no Bajirao Peshwa. He died fighting in the battlefield. This man chooses such topics deliberately to set the box office ringing and must be taught a lesson this time. I still wonder why there was no protest over Bajirao Mastani.”
 
 Sikarwar, who worked with US Aid and was adviser to MP health department before getting into the construction business, said: “Majority of us are professionals. We believe in non-violence. We have been requesting the government, censor board and the filmmaker himself not to make this film. There is a Jauhar Kund in Chittorgarh, and temples to ‘Devi Padmavati’. Why should a film be made on her?” 
 
 He reminded that they had protested against ‘Jodha Akbar’, too, and delayed its release by a month in MP.
 
 Does it mean that any film based on Rajput queens would become a question of pride for the community? “When periods films are made, Rajputs will obviously be there but if a character like ‘Padmavati is distorted, there will definitely be a backlash,” he said.
 
 Asked if politicians like Kaptan Singh Solanki, Narendra Singh Tomar or   — who are mentioned as mentors of the organization — have given the go ahead to the agitation, he said: “That’s the problem. No political leader of our community has come forward to demand a ban on the film or support our agitation.”
 
 
