BENGALURU: The  , together with the   (BBMP), organized   at four different locations in Bengaluru to educate people on the correct usage and working of   (EVM) equipped with   (VVPAT) systems. Hundreds of people stopped by at the venues to learn about these machines which will be used in the assembly elections.

 Stalls were set up at the Lalbagh West Gate, near the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) in Cubbon Park, JP Park in Mathikere and Sankey Tank in Malleswaram. Sanjiv Kumar, chief electoral officer (CEO), inaugurated the camp at Lalbagh along with BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad and other officials early in the morning.
 
 “The software installed in the voting machines cannot be tampered with and cannot be accessed using Bluetooth or internet,” Kumar insisted. “The voting public has nothing to be worried about.”
 
 However, not everyone was convinced about the efficacy of the machine. While people were largely appreciative of the initiative, some felt malpractice cannot be ruled out. S Balasubramanian and KR Sai Charan, IT professionals, said they preferred the old system of ballot paper.
 
 “There is no proof that the vote has actually been recorded correctly,” said Balasubramanian. “A printed recording is not proof enough. I doubt the system works properly and when there is doubt, we should go back to the old system.”
 
 However, D R Ashok, joint commissioner (east), said the chance of an incorrect symbol appearing on the screen was impossible. “If anybody claims that the wrong symbol was recorded and wants to vote again, they will have to do so in the presence of the booth’s chief officer,” he said. “But they have to sign an undertaking that if the vote gets recorded correctly the second time, they can be imprisoned for fraud. This will limit any misuse.”
 
 However, he said only about 10% of the total votes actually get counted in the form of prints in a random sampling. This is done to double-check the veracity of the counting exercise.
 
 HOW IT WORKS
 As soon as a vote is cast the VVPAT system displays the symbol of the party the voter selects on a small screen on the machine. The symbol is then printed on a piece of paper. The voter can see the paper for a brief moment and confirm whether his vote was properly recorded. The slip then lands in a drop box. These slips are later counted for select booths to ascertain the functioning of EVMs.
 
 
