INDORE: City   Committee members on Monday put up posters at different spots in   cautioning people, who have plans to travel to Delhi on April 28, to either cancel or postpone their travel to avoid ‘inconvenience’ as party workers would travel to national capital in large numbers for a protest planned on April 29.

 According to the committee members, a large number people and party supporters will travel to Delhi on that day to participate in the rally organised by Congress to protest against the current political scenario and environment of ‘distrust and intolerance’ in the country. 
 
 Many see it as ‘veiled threat’ to passengers to cancel their tickets if they are going to Delhi from Indore on April 28. Others see it as a publicity stunt to discourage passengers from booking seats in trains on that particular day so that maximum seats are available for people going to participate in the rally.
 
 The posters were put up at eight spots on the railway station premises and also at railways’ reservation counter. The posters stated that passengers having reservation in trains to Delhi on April 28 should cancel it to avoid inconveniences during their travel. 
 
 “We expect 5000 people to travel to Delhi from Indore, Ujjain, Dewas and other stations. This would obviously lead to rush in trains going to Delhi on that day. So, it was our moral responsibility to inform the passengers to save them from facing any inconvenience,” said city Congress committee general secretary Girish Joshi. 
 
 City Congress committee president Pramod Tandon however said, “The statement is not from the party, instead the advisory appeared to personal views of members.” 
 
 As soon as this came to notice of railway officials, they rushed to remove the posters. Officials, however, did not call for any action on this issue. "There will not be any inconvenience to passengers on the given day. Adequate arrangements would be in place to ensure safe and hassle free travel for all passengers," said a railway spokesmen of Indore railway station. 
 
