LUDHIANA: With Ludhiana struggling to keep its roads and roadsides clean, the municipal corporation and district administration are planning to introduce the concept of ‘plogging’ — pick up garbage while jogging — in the city on the World Environment Day, observed on June 5.

 A concept that became popular in   two years back is gathering support in other parts of the world including India. It will be first-of-its-kind initiative in Ludhiana.
 
  joint commissioner   said ‘plogging’ can be considered as a form of exercise too. “When a person picks up litter from roadside, he bends and stretches along with jogging,” he added. The official said residents should come forward and make it a routine affair. “By doing so, they will remain fit and roadsides will get cleaner,” he added.
 
 However, members of several NGOs advised the MC authorities to first set their own house in order by ensuring proper lifting of garbage, because it is not possible to remove litter from roadsides in one day.
 
 “No doubt it is a good initiative, but it should be a routine affair rather than for one day. Our volunteers and members of the group are already doing this activity on the canal side and would like to participate in the event if the authorities will invite us,” said  , member of   Roots.
 
 He said instead of picking up garbage from roadside, people have this tendency to throw polythene bags full of trash on canal side or other parts of the city. He said there is a need to implement the solid waste management strictly and garbage should be lifted properly from houses, roadsides and dumps only then city can be declared clean.
 
 Maneet Diwan, member from Lets Clean Ludhiana, said, “I do not think that this concept is fit for the industrial town. People have the habit of littering on roadside. So the MC should provide infrastructure and clear the heaps of garbage from each road in the first place.” He said they cannot compare the industrial town with foreign countries as they have advanced system for everything.
 
 Box: Routes
 
 The authorities will select routes where runners can pick up garbage while passing through that stretch. In this initiative, they are planning to involve members of various NGOs, residents, officers and employees from government offices. The probable route will be from Rose Garden to Guru Nanak Stadium and Rakh Bagh.
 
 
