NAGPUR: Nine final-year students of Smitadevi Pendharkar Education College have lost an academic year after the   (NU) denied them permission to appear in their BEd fourth semester exam which started on May 14.

 On Wednesday, the NU conducted the second paper during which too the students were not allowed despite their repeated appeals to vice chancellor SP Kane. The same day NSUI national delegate Aamir Noori met the VC Kane and demanded that the NU allows the students to appear in exam or hold a special exam to save their future. 
 
 However, the VC expressed his helplessness in the absence of   issued by Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) at Pune.
 
 The college was derecognized by the   ( ) in December 2017 after initiating proceeding against it and issuing show cause notice on February 6, 2017.
 
 This batch of 2016-17 was informed about the college’s plan to close down in the wake of its inability to meet the stringent NCTE norms and the students were shifted to   of Education at Khapri in June 2017.
 
 The students had cleared their first and second semesters from Pendharkar College while they wrote the third semester exams through Bonde College, but the NU held back their results.
 
 Later, the NU had asked Pendharkar College to submit NOC issued by DHE to regularize the shifting of students.
 
 However, the DHE didn’t issue NOC for unexplained reasons to the college till date. College secretary Preeti Pendharkar had been pursuing the issue with the DHE since November 2017 followed by eight reminders all of which didn’t evoke any response, the college director told TOI.
 
 Dhanraj Mane, director of Higher Education, didn’t respond to TOI’s SMS.
 
 In fact, the NU too wrote to the DHE requesting it to release the NOC to save the academic year of these students.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty said the NU couldn’t allow them in the final exam as their admissions were governed by DHE. “BEd admissions are done through CAP and the university needs NOCs from both the colleges and DHE. As an exception, we allowed them in third-semester but now six months have passed and the NOC is pending,” he said.
 
 
