INDORE: High drama prevailed at   (IMC) headquarters on Monday as   against the   

 Protesting   members and workers led by MLA Jitu Patwari raised various demands like clean drinking water in rural areas, hawker zones, regularization of illegal colonies and adequate compensation for those whose constructions have been affected by IMC’s removal drives. 
 
 Chanting slogans against IMC officials and mayor, Congress workers along with residents of different localities argued that none of the promises made by mayor have been fulfilled so far. 
 
 The civic body officials made all security arrangements to avoid any untoward incident. 
 
 On the problems faced by residents of 29 villages that came under IMC, Jitu Patwari said that the biggest problem of the area is clean drinking water, regularization of illegal colonies and menace of stray dogs and pigs.
 
 “The civic body has only shifted cows from the city, while nothing has been done to control dogs and pigs,” said Patwari, while addressing protesting Congress workers and residents of different localities, who had gathered in front of IMC office. 
 
 Protesting residents mostly of Palda and nearby areas held placards in their hands with their demands written on them. Some demanded speeding up of ongoing development works in their respective areas while others compared the civic body’s working style with North Korea president Kim Jong-un. “Kim Jong Ki Tarj Par Chalne Wali Indore Naga Palika Nigam Hai Hai!” read one of the placards.
 
 The Congress members also dared IMC authorities for a public debate over promises made by mayor to citizens of rural areas. They also threatened to launch protest on weekly basis, highlighting issues of each zone of the city.
 
 “Our workers have started listing problems faced by citizens in each zone. Congress will stage protest every week if IMC officials do not listen to our demands,” said president of state Congress committee Arun Subhashchandra Yadav.
 
 Other senior Congress leaders including Sajjan Singh Verma, Ashwin Joshi, Pramod Tandon also addressed the gathering.
 
 
