NOIDA: Many   in Noida are in a bad condition due to enviornmental hazards and it is necessary that the NGOs and the civil society step in to preserve them, Union home minister   said on Friday. Singh was speaking at an event organised by   at the company’s office in Sector 126, Noida.

 “I believe there is a need for awareness on environmental change. People are working for this cause but we are not getting the kind of success we should get here. Here too, NGOs should come up and play their role,” he said.
 
 “Many water bodies are in a bad condition. You can visit places around Noida and will find many water bodies where environment problems have been created. And due to this, the survival, eating habits of the public are adversely affected. NGOs can play an important role here,” he said.
 
 Water bodies in Noida and   have been plagued by the mining mafia as the administration has not been able to curb illegal mining.
 
 Talking about UP in specific where he has served as chief minister, he said that he knows many such such schools where teacher-student ratio is as low as 1:200, 1:250 or even 1:300.
 
 “How can we improve their lives? The government has done for 70 years but now there is a need for the government and the civil society to come together and fulfil this responsibility,” he said. Singh also mentioned the Naxal affected regions where Naxalites do not allow the government to step in. “Even there, in distant places, I have personally seen NGOs serving people. Hence, NGOs are very important,” he said.
 
 Singh said that even after 70 years of Independence, one tends to feel that India being such a large country has not been successful in attaining a homogenous development in all the regions.
 
 “There are poor children in schools for whom mid-day meal is the first and last meal. When such people exist in a country, I believe that more than the government, the civil society is responsible for taking them out of poverty,” he said. 
 
 On the country becoming the fastest growing economy with a GDP growth rate of 7.5%, he urged people to focus on raising the human development index where India stands at 141.
 
 
