COIMBATORE: Chan Bhasha, father of a class IX student at the   on   in the city, is a worried man. He has not decided whether to let his son continue in the same school, as it has no teachers for Science and Maths.

 The precarious situation arose after the school’s headmaster got promoted to a higher secondary school in the city last July. Around the same time, the school’s science teacher was promoted and transferred to another school. Since then, the maths teacher has been forced to carry out the headmaster’s as well as the science teacher’s duty.
 
 As the Class X practical exams are nearing, authorities on last Friday sent a temporary science teacher to help students, a teacher told TOI. “Last November, a maths teacher was deputed to the school, easing things a bit. The teacher took good care of the students, which reassured parents. But, in January, the teacher was shifted to another school facing staff shortage. This irked the parents, who took the issue to corporation education officials,” he said.
 
 Last Thursday, corporation education officials had assured a group of parents that they would shift the maths teacher back to the school on Monday, Bhasha said. “But, they did not keep their word,” he added. 
 
 Bhagavathi Raj, another parent, blamed the trend of teachers leaving the school, affecting the students’ performance. 
 
 “We admit our children in government schools as they are affordable. But, in such a situation, what can parents do? The future of Class X students is at stake. We fear that our children may perform poorly in board exams due to lack of guidance and waste an academic year,” he told TOI.
 
 Teachers at the school said they were burdened with extra duties due to staff shortage. “But, we give our best to the students. We have prepared Class X students well for the board exams,” a teacher said.
 
 Meanwhile, the corporation chief education officer said authorities have decided to depute the maths teacher back to the school. “It will be done in a couple of days,” the officer said.
 
 Including the newly-deputed science teacher, the school has five other teachers — the maths teacher, who also takes care of the headmaster’s duties, an English teacher, one social science teacher and two Tamil teachers. The school has 116 students, 20 of whom are in Class X.
 
 The Anupperpalayam Corporation High School was started in 1951 as a Tamil medium school. In 1963, English medium was also added. Parents said the school has the reputation of scoring 100% results in the past.
 
 
