AHMEDABAD: At a time when witness in the 2005 Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case are turning hostile one after the other before the CBI court in Mumbai, an important witness in this case and an accused in the 2004 Popular Builders firing case,  , has been declared wanted by a local court.

  A city sessions court in Ahmedabad issued a non-bailable warrant against Khan after he failed to mark his presence before the court on regular dates, his advocate G G Shaikh said. “For months together, I have not heard from him. He stopped coming to the city to attend court on regular dates. This led to an arrest warrant being issued against him,” the lawyer added.
 
 Khan has been facing charges of extortion, criminal intimidation and criminal conspiracy along with seven other accused persons. There are a few others who are still wanted in this case. Khan along with Sohrabuddin and   were accused of the murder of Udaipur gangster Hamid Lala.
 
 An Udaipur-based gangster, Khan was one of the most important witnesses in the CBI chargesheet filed in the Sohrbauddin encounter case in 2010. He served time in jail with Sohrabuddin’s aide Tulsiram Prajapati in Udaipur, where Tulsiram told him of his apprehensions of being killed after the Sohrabuddin’s encounter. He was brought to Ahmedabad with Tulsiram on his last court date, when Tulsiram was killed on the way back, on December 28, 2006.
 
 In his statement before the CBI, Khan implicated IPS officer Abhay   in the encounter and termed him Sohrabuddin’s partner in an extortion racket. His statements linked the encounter with the Haren Pandya murder case, because he said that Chudasama had told him that he (Chudasama) had saved Sohrabuddin from being implicated in the Haren Pandya murder case.
 
 A few days ago, he retracted his statement by filing an affidavit in the CBI court, maintaining that he was coerced to make a false statement about Chudasama at the behest of a Congress party leader.
 
 Later, Chudasama was discharged by the CBI court in Mumbai for want of evidence and sanction to prosecute him.
 
 During the course of the investigation, many persons accused in the Popular Builders firing case, retracted their first statements to the CBI. They included Sohrabuddin’s younger brother, Nayamuddin Sheikh.
 
 The CBI chargesheet claimed that the firing at the office of Popular Builders, owned by   and Dashrath Patel, took place at the instance of Sohrabuddin. The CBI had claimed that this firing incident was a plan to trick Sohrabuddin in to coming to Gujarat, as he was not taking calls from   cops.
 
 
