NEW DELHI: Soon after the double-decker train coming from Jaipur to Sarai   station in Delhi started moving from near   around 9.45am, where it had been stranded for almost two hours by   protesters blocking the tracks, a missile hit a window and broke it. "We were just gathering speed when a barrage of stones came at us from both sides of the moving train," said a shaken   after reaching the capital. "One rock shattered the window and struck a passenger just 10 metres from me." 

 The passengers bore the brunt of the day's Dalit violence, with many of them later complaining that the railway authorities gave out no information during the prolonged halt and only basic medical aid was available later when the fusillade hit them. It began when the 12985 Jaipur-Sarai Rohilla train passed Alwar station, two hours out of Jaipur, and came to an abrupt halt. "We thought it was a routine stoppage, but after half an hour, some passengers stepped out to discover there were almost 200 people with sticks and stones blocking the track," recalled  , an IT engineer travelling on the train. "Some of them were lying down on the track to prevent the train from moving forward."
 
 After word spread inside the compartments of what was happening outside, the passengers became even more restless - making panicked phone calls home to inform relatives of their situation. Surely someone would come to their rescue, they thought, but there wasn't even a police presence around. "Fear gripped us when we realised the protesters could enter and vandalise the train. I made frantic calls to my family and they wanted me to keep updating them every few minutes," said Raunak, a student.
 
 Some passengers, meanwhile, managed to contact the police and after an agonising wait, security personnel reached the train. It was around 9:30am, and the passengers had been stuck for over 90 minutes. It wasn't easy to clear the tracks and it was after more forces appeared that the mob gave up their resistance and vacated the tracks. Five minutes after it resumed the journey, the volley of stones hit the train.
 
 The pelting continued for around 10 minutes, the passengers recollected, though it felt much longer to them. Travelling railway staff advised passengers to stand in the aisle to avoid being hit. "Some of us stood, others crouched in the aisle. A few of the windows were completely shattered, others had holes the size of coconuts," described a passenger.
 
 By the time the last of the stones was hurled at the train, the passengers were fearful about returning to their seats. Railway staff served refreshments and cleaned the glass shards and the train finally arrived at its destination two hours late, wearing the look of having survived a battle zone. "At Sarai Rohilla, there were no railway officials to check on the passengers. There certainly was no medical staff present," said Banerjee. 
 
 Several trains were similarly pelted on Monday. By evening, however, RPF, GRP and state police squads had been stationed near the tracks at different locations. "There was stone throwing at Moradabad, Meerut and Ferozepur too, but the operations weren't affected too severely and no injuries were reported," said a senior railway official.
 
 
