NAGPUR: After thirty- three years of foundation in the USA,   Network International ( ) is all set to launch its first chapter in Nagpur, regional director   said during a conference held at a city hotel on Friday.

 The inauguration of the first chapter was well received, as it became the platinum chapter in the country. A platinum chapter in BNI is one which has received the participation of more than 51 members. BNI is a business and professional referral organization that allows only one person from each profession to join a chapter. This is a unique platform that integrates face-to-face networking with an online social network spanning across 59 countries and thousands of business persons.
 
 BNI was founded in USA by Dr   some 33 years ago and today it is functional in more than 71 countries with over 8,325 chapters and 2,29,284 members. In Nagpur, BNI initiated its activities in August 2017 and launched its first chapter on January 5, 2018 with a total of 54 members. Thus, it set an international record of becoming the first chapter of region to achieve the prestigious platinum code.
 
 Currently, BNI Andesite has 72 members who have passed more than 350 referrals in the past two months. The essence of BNI is ‘Givers gain philosophy’ a trademark concept which emphasizes that the more one gives in terms of referrals and business within a network they will be reciprocated with the same in multiple paces.
 
 BNI India was launched in 2005 and is currently spread in 49 cities with over 18,801 members and 387 chapters across the country. The membership in BNI is acquainted through invitation or references. After the interviews, verification of the applicant’s background is conducted by BNI officials. The membership fees is stated to be Rs34,450, which goes under the BNI Enterprises Private Limited.
 
 Along with Tahalramani, CA Riddho Saboo, president  , vice-president Sachin Jain and secretary Ali Chimthanawala were also present at the conference.
 
 (Reporting by Bhagyashree Kashikar)
 
 
