Nagpur: Renowned magician from Delhi, Shankar Bakshi amazed citizens with his magic tricks at a show ‘Zero Gravity: An extraordinary and unconventional magical experience’ organized by SGR Knowledge Foundation, a non-profit organization of Raisoni Group of Institutions (RGI) in association with Chitnavis Centre, at Banyan Hall, on Tuesday. 
 
 Commencing the magical journey, Bakshi didn’t take up the stage but performed most of the time close to the audience, off the podium. He started with showcasing dexterous sleight of hand with playing cards. 
  
 Bringing the signed card on the top, entirely changing the cards in his hands, pulling out a card from the phone and more just by snapping his fingers, Bakshi successfully impressed the audience. 
  
 He further also put forth extremely clean pick pocketing techniques leaving the audience in awe. The highlights of the show were transferring a currency note from his jacket inside the sealed chocolate which was in the hands of a random lady from the crowd. 
  
 He also took everyone aback when he pulled the symbol drawn on a man’s hand to the hand of the man’s wife. 
  
 Adding to the magic was Bakshi’s humour, which helped in making the show incredibly entertaining, without a single dull moment. Explaining the traits of magic to the audience, he said, “People feel that magic is just deception using sleight of hand but has psychology, showmanship and a lot more to it. I don’t just keep on practicing; I read a lot of books and learn. Magic is a beautiful art and I am glad that many more kids are coming back towards it.” 
  
 Bakshi told TOI that he was inspired by David Blaine when he was a kid and started his journey just for the sake of doing something that everyone can’t do which then turned into his passion. 
  
  “Magic has a lot of variety and it is learnt mostly via self study but additionally you need to use your intellect to earn through your art. Those trying to pursue it should stop watching videos and practice more,” he said. 
  
 Amit Gandhare, public relation officer, RGI said, “The knowledge series isn’t new and we have been conducting such programmes since a long time with a motto to bring professionals and artists from various fields in front of the public so as to inspire them to follow their dreams in whatever field they wish to.” 
  
 “ People watch these kinds of personalities on the internet but it isn’t often that you can get to listen to their success stories, interact with them or even see their skill in real. We now aim to bring more and more noted people in future”, he added. 
  
  
