MUMBAI: A population of close to 15 crore working class Indians — nearly half of the 31 crore   ( ) bank accounts — is eligible for small loans of around Rs 15,000, but has not availed of any  . A new TransUnion (TU) Cibil study estimates that this huge potential borrower market could provide significant growth opportunities for   and provide a major boost to the economy.

 
  vice-president Yogendra Singh said, “These potential borrowers would be having an income of over Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. They may not be eligible for home or auto loans, but they can easily service a Rs 15,000-crore consumer durable   that has to be repaid in 10 months.”
 
  
  
 TU Cibil is facilitating loans to this category by providing lenders with a ‘new to credit (NTC)’ score for these customers. Unlike the traditional  , which is based on at least six months of repayment track record, the NTC score is based on analytics. According to Singh, lenders can draw this score from Cibil and provide loans to this segment.
 
 The study showed that the total population of credit-eligible consumers in India is roughly 22 crore. Of this eligible population, only about a third — 7.2 crore — is currently credit-active, meaning that such people have a live loan account with a bank or lending institution.
 
 “This group includes both consumers who were previously credit-active but are currently dormant, and those who have never availed a retail loan or credit card. The addition of these consumers to the retail lending market could mean significant incremental growth opportunities for credit products such as credit cards, personal loans and consumer durable loans,” said Singh.
 
 “This untapped market presents an opportunity for sustained, prudent growth for lenders over the next five years and beyond. Lenders need to find ways to reach this untapped market, which likely has credit needs that are not being met currently,” said Singh. This segment comprises borrowers in the target age range of 20-69 years and is projected to grow at a rapid pace as more consumers enter the target age range and economic growth raises income levels. The study forecasts that the addressable market can reach an estimated 29.5 crore by the end of 2022.
 
 
