NEW DELHI: In an important ruling that will regulate play schools, the Delhi high court said it is mandatory to get NOCs from other   of a   if one of the owners wants to start a pre-primary school on the premises.

 The ruling is significant as it will help authorities regulate permission for schools/creches/play schools for toddlers that have mushroomed in recent years in residential areas of the capital.
 
 Justice V K Rao interpreted provisions of the Master Plan and Delhi Municipal Corporation Act to hold that the local   (RWA) also needs to be consulted by the corporation for identification of a street/road before it is put to mixed use — where residential properties are allowed to run commercial units.
 
 The court cited the MPD 2021 to stress that authorities, while giving such permissions such as to open a pre-primary school, “must balance socio economic need and environmental impact by taking into account effect of congestion, increased traffic as well as increased pressure on civil amenities.”
 
 It was hearing a plea by other owners of a multi-storey residential building in Vasant Vihar challenging the decision of the ground and basement floor owner to start a pre-primary school. The court agreed with the arguments of lawyers Ravi Gupta and   that in such cases the ground floor owner can’t go ahead without compulsorily getting   from the occupants of the other dwelling units in the building.
 
 “An occupant of other dwelling unit(s), in a residential building, has a stake in so far as the common areas/amenities/security etc are concerned. To that extent, his/their rights would be effected. To obviate an objection at a later stage, NOC needs to be taken from the occupants of the other dwelling units in the building, before starting any activity,” Justice Rao noted, allowing the plea of the other owners and restraining the ground floor owners from starting the school.
 
 The ground floor owner had claimed that only a creche and day care centre for toddlers is planned and the co-owners fear of it being a pre-primary school were overblown. But HC underlined that as per the MPD clause relating to schools “the intent of the framer, was to deal with institutions dealing with toddlers, which include pre primary schools/Montessori schools/play schools apart from Crèche. Wherever reference has been made to preprimary/nursery/Montessori the same is a reference to ‘schools’” it added. 
 
 
