Madurai: Friday’s stunning fire has given enough strength to demands that all shops be evicted from the temple and located at alternate sites. Devotees pointed out that the threat perception for the temple had changed as the 140-odd shops which were earlier allowed to sell only bangles and pooja items now sold even electronic goods.

 “Many shops sell a variety of goods including plastic, fabrics and electronic items. Functioning of such shops is a threat to the safety and security of the devotees as well as the temple,”said Alagarsamy who regularly visits the temple. He said that the functioning of such a large number of shops inside the temple raised doubts whether it was a religious site or a shopping complex. 
 
 Another devotee, T Sundaravadivel, said that the Meenakshi Amman temple was one of the major temples in the country to receive threat from terrorist organizations like Lashkar-e-taiba. Though security was stepped up following this, the police were least bothered about the goods being sold in the shops inside the temple. “The police never allow devotees to carry snacks and even water for their children inside, but easily allow shops to sell electronic items, use inverter batteries and other things. The police do not undertake physical checks on the shop employees,” he said.
 
 He recalled that the shops were asked to shift to other places even during the period of former chief minister K Kamaraj. Though even central security agencies had insisted on clearing these shops, it was not done, said Sundaravaidvel. 
 
 A retired official of HR&CE department said that the shops were necessary and there was no harm in allowing sale of traditional items including board games like pallanguli and paramapatham. However, at present every nook and corner of the temple was let out to shops, where almost all things are sold, so as to rake in revenue. He said that the more the number of shops the more it infringed on the rights of devotees as the vacant spaces were kept in temple to enable devotees to move freely and enjoy the place. Collector Veera Raghava Rao said that the issue of evicting the shops would be looked into.
 
 
