NEW DELHI:   cardholders got a New Year’s gift from   in the form of an option to buy rations from any   in the city. In a month-long trial, the department of food and civil supplies will now distribute ration through point of sale (PoS) devices at 2,254 fair price shops.

 Based on the takeaways from this trial, the system will be firmed up for a complete rollout from February. Before that, the proposal will be tabled in the cabinet meeting for approval.
 
 “The department has implemented portability scheme under which cardholders can buy ration from any of the 2,254 fair price shops with complete shifting to PoS device. For availing this facility, the biometric data of beneficiaries must match the official records,” minister in-charge Imran Hussain said.
 
 The e-Pos devices have also been integrated with electronic weighing machines to ensure correct weight to the beneficiaries. Delhi government is distributing specified food articles to the tune of 3.75 lakh quintals to 72.78 lakh beneficiaries per month.
 
 “Under this system, distribution of 8% of the total cardholders will be allowed offline in order to provide ease to beneficiaries whose Aadhaar authentication either fails or who still do not possess UID cards,” Hussain said.
 
 Disabled and destitute beneficiaries, who are facing problems in accessing fair price shops, will be able to nominate a person to draw ration after due verification, a statement by the government added.
 
 Apart from this, the department’s proposal to increase the margin money for fair price shop owners from Rs 70 per quintal to Rs 200 per quintal is under consideration by the government. Hussain said there was a long-pending demand of fair price shop owners for increasing the margin money to enable them to bear the running costs on account of wages payment, rent, shortage incurred during retail distribution, electricity charges and commission/profit.
 
 In August 2017, the government had decided to distribute ration through e-PoS devices. The department signed an MoU with   the same month for supply, installation, commissioning, application software and maintenance of e-POS devices under build, own and operate model for distribution of ration in Delhi.
 
 
