NEW DELHI: The city’s   were   into a   in   on Wednesday during which BJP cornered the ruling Aam Aadmi Party over alleged   of those on the   due to  .

 AAP returned fire by claiming that night shelters had space for 30,000 people. Urban development minister Satyendar Jain cited an alleged case where Delhi Police had sought removal of shelters outside AIIMS in the run-up to the President’s visit earlier this week. However, Delhi government stood firm and refused to remove them.
 
 “Around 1,100 families of patients are staying in the tents put up by us. Delhi Police tried to shut them down citing VIP movement, but I stood firm and said they will not be removed,” Jain said.
 
 Jain, however, steered clear of responding to BJP’s allegations about deaths of the homeless. Last week, when the issue had emerged, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) had issued a statement rejecting the claim made by an NGO.
 
 Leader of opposition Vijender Gupta raised the issue as soon after the House assembled demanding a discussion. When speaker Ram Niwas Goel turned down the demand, the four BJP MLAs kept on disrupting the agenda listed for the day. Later, Gupta was allowed to raise the matter.
 
 Mentioning a tweet by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal made last week, when he had targeted DUSIB CEO Shoorbir Singh over the alleged deaths of 44 homeless people in the first week of January, Gupta said, “The government should present a detailed report. It should also be told if any notice was issued to DUSIB mentioned by the CM in his tweet.”
 
 Dubbing BJP a “kambal chor” (blanket thieves) party, Jain hit back by saying, “They enact drama. First they distribute blankets and then collect them back.” Subsequently, the BJP legislators staged a walkout.
 
 Earlier, Karawal Nagar MLA Kapil Mishra, who was suspended from AAP, was marshalled out for the second consecutive day as he alleged “financial dealings” behind AAP’s Rajya Sabha choices. He had entered the House with his mouth wrapped with a piece of cloth carrying a banner with a list of allegations against AAP and Kejriwal, who was not present in the House for the third day.
 
 
