PUNE: Empanelled private hospitals will not have to submit hard copies of medical bills at regional centres of Ex-Servicemen Contributory Scheme ( ) from the next month.

 A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting held in New Delhi last month. The meeting was attended by all heads of regional centres.
 
 “It has been observed that several empanelled hospitals face difficulties in producing hard copies. Often they don’t attach requisite documents which are mandatory for processing bills. As a result, many hospitals don’t receive payments on time and this results in pendency. Therefore, it was decided to remove this practice. Now, the hospitals will have to submit bills online at their respective regional centres. Those bills, as per the procedures, will be verified by the panel before being disbursed,” a senior army officer told TOI on Friday.
 
 As many as 54 lakh ex-servicemen and their families across the country are registered with ECHS. In the past, a substantial number of hospitals had stopped rendering medical care and services due to pending   of bills.
 
 “ECHS directorate’s endeavour is to   medical bills speedily. Some of the hospitals still have not received payments as they haven’t submitted required documents with bills. There are certain cases wherein regional centres have followed up with hospitals but in vain. In some of the cases, the hospitals have submitted false bills and claimed higher charges. Therefore, such bills are still not disbursed,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the hospitals authorities are of the opinion that this move should have been introduced long ago. An official from a city-based hospital said, “In the past, we had raised the issue with ECHS authorities but at that time they didn’t consider our suggestion. Some of the hospitals preferred not to continue with ECHS. The latest move will bring a positive result in the coming days,”
 
 Col   (retd), director of the Maharashtra Ex-servicemen Welfare Department said, “There were some issues in the scheme and several veterans didn’t get timely medical facilities. Since the last two years, the authorities have paid attention to the scheme and resolved many issues.”
 
 
