BENGALURU: Rose exports from Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport ( ) increased by 11% in the run-up to Valentine’s Day this year (February 1 to 14), compared to the same period in 2017. The roses went to many more countries this time.

 Bengaluru is estimated to account for 70% of all rose exports from India. 
 
 The airport, run by   (BIAL), exported 5.2 million stems (1 stem is 1 rose) to 36 destinations across 25 countries this season, compared to 4.7 million in the same period last year across 19 destinations in 15 countries. The
 
 total weight of the roses exported touched 325,000kg from 293,000 kg last year.
 
 A KIA spokesperson said this was among the highest exports they have seen since the airport came into operation in 2008. However, the airport could not confirm which year it recorded the highest export. 
 
 "This year, we have witnessed a huge jump in the number of destinations to which roses have been exported. The number of countries is also substantially higher. While this has much to do with the quality of roses grown in the region, we believe the increase in destinations is also due to our consistent focus on efficient handling and efforts towards establishing Bengaluru airport as the singular gateway for cargo traffic," BIAL chief executive Hari Marar said.
 
 Sought-after varieties
 
 Malaysia, Kuwait and Singapore were the three biggest importers of Indian roses, accounting for 52,459kg, 39,341kg and 31,615kg, respectively. Other countries in the top 10 include Saudi Arabia, Japan, USA, Lebanon, South Korea, Australia and UAE.
 
 Bengaluru is India’s floriculture hub because of its cool, mild weather and farmers practise polyhouse cultivation – farming under completely controlled environmental conditions. Some of the top variety roses that are exported include Top Secret, Noblesse, Solaire and Brazilian Lady, exporters said.
 
 There are around 125 rose growers in a 45-km radius of Bengaluru, producing the most sought-after varieties such as  , Grand Gala and First Red.
 
 
