The recent call by Bengaluru Mayor   to make kitchen pulverisers mandatory (to reduce solid kitchen waste from going into landfills) has experts seeing red. Kitchen pulverisers — small electric grinder machines installed below kitchen sink that crush any food dumped into it into an almost liquid form — are popular in the West, but activists say that it is just not viable in a city like Bengaluru that lacks the infrastructure that cities in the West do. Therefore, it will only add to our woes.

 Members of the   recently started a petition online to garner support of Bengalureans and meet the   to show him that the city is not for this form of garbage disposal. “When we met the Mayor earlier about the construction debris issue, he told us about making kitchen pulverisers mandatory for hotels and new houses. We told him then that it’s a bad idea. Our STP (sewerage treatment plant) expert, environment engineer Dr Ananth S Kodavasal, had a couple for meetings with the Mayor and other officials and explained the impact this will have on STPs. Our lakes are already struggling with under capacity STPs, and at this point to introduce another input will clog drains; the city saw flooding in October, all because of clogged drains. We expressed this to the Mayor, but even after that he told the press about making it mandatory. We were about 30-35 activists then, so we thought that we should garner larger support (via the online petition) and get back to him to show that the citizens don’t support this,” says Seema Sharma of the Bangalore Eco Team.
 
 The team suggests that there are better and simpler ways of keeping waste out of landfills, such as composting. “If anything needs to be mandated — like Seattle in USA, Havana in Cuba and closer home in   and Thiruvananthapuram — it should be composting on premises. Our city isn’t able to handle sewerage at this point; we can’t add to the load with pulverizing. The BBMP began composting santhes, and, in June, they mooted making composting on premises mandatory, but nothing has been implemented. When we spoke to BWSSB officials, they had no idea about how to take care of crushed food. Pulverisers require a lot of water to drain out the crushed waste — how feasible is that when we are already suffering from water shortage? If we have to copy the West, we need infrastructure like them. When we have good home solutions, such as composting, why ape anyone else? Take a note from Alappuzha, which is among the five cities in the world that are working towards curbing pollution through their sustainable solid waste management practices. They achieved this only by making composting and bio gas mandatory, for which the government provides high subsidies for this. We should be implementing that here,” adds Seema.
 
 
 
 The Bangalore Eco Team says that there are many drawbacks to kitchen pulverisers, such as…
 
 
