NEW DELHI:   cooled for the second consecutive month in February on the back of moderating food prices, while industrial output continued with its strong run in January, bringing a cheer for policymakers battling to fast-track growth and tame price pressures.

 Data release by the   ( ) on Monday showed retail inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI), rose an annual 4.4% in February, slower than previous month’s 5.1%. Food prices softened during the month, with the index rising 3.3% in February, slower than previous month’s 4.7%. Economists said they expect the RBI to hold rates for now and the central bank may not turn hawkish in its April review.
 
  
  
 
 “The numbers will be a positive catalyst for the markets in the near-term. Inflation has eased for the second consecutive month in February, raising downside risks to the RBI’s projection for March 2018 quarter. Core inflation was relatively flat. This lowers pressure on the central bank to shift gears to a hawkish stance at the April review, with a similar tune likely to extend into June,” said Radhika  , economist at  .
 
 “FY19 numbers will largely be range-bound between 4.5-5%, providing the headroom to keep rates on hold in 2018. Clarity will be sought on the MSP (minimum support price) increases, oil price direction, market/rupee volatility and health of demand indicators,” Rao said.
 
 Separate data showed industrial output growth rose an annual 7.5% in January, the second successive month of robust growth after December’s 7.1% rise, and above the 3.5% posted in the same month last year. Cumulative growth between April and January was 4.1%, slower than the 5% posted in the year earlier period.
 
 The growth surge was led by strong expansion in the manufacturing sector, which grew 8.7% in January compared to 2.5% in the previous year, while electricity rose 7.6% during the period. The capital goods sector, which is a barometer of industrial activity, rose 14.6% in January compared with a contraction of 0.6% in the year earlier month.
 
 Economists said the factory output data showed that the impact of disruptions caused by the rollout glitches of the goods and services tax (GST) and demonetisation had diminished.
 
 
