The month of March has a host of new offerings for the small screen viewers. From entertaining to intense, the upcoming shows look promising in terms of their content and star-cast. Unlike what we see on the small screen, the success of these 'hatke' shows might usher in a new era on Television.

 First up we have Shriman Shrimati Phir Se, which is a remake of popular 90's sitcom Shriman Shrimati. The show will premiere on March 13 at 7:30 p.m. It boasts of a brand new star cast this time around. The soap will see Sucheta Khanna, Suresh Menon, Sameer Shah and   reprising the iconic roles.
 
 Unlike the saas-bahu drama that we see on Television these days, Shriman Shrimati was a clean comedy like Tu Tu Main Main, Dekh Bhai Dekh or  , who were in the same league, back in the day. Hence, with its revival, there is hope that it will offer better entertainment value to the viewers. 
 
 Following this is the much-awaited fiction show,  , starring   as   and Harshad Chopra as Aditya. The fiction soap will start from March 19 and will air from Monday to Friday at 9 pm.
  
  
 Just like the actress' previous show, Beyhadh, this too seems like an unconventional tale between Zoya and Aditya. Bepannaah promises to be different, and centers around the theme of infidelity, something Indian Television has mostly refrained to venture into. 
 
 The teasers of the show have created enough buzz already. Considering the fact that viewers loved Jennifer as Maya in her previous outing, the expectations from this one are really high. 
 
 Another star who is making a return to the small screen is Kapil Sharma. After The   Show went off air last year due to the comedian's ill-health and declining TRPs, everyone is looking forward to see what Kapil has to offer this time around. The show's premiere date is March 25.
 
 Reportedly, the show will have a different format this time around and will include activities and fun games. The comedian will be joined by former co-stars Chandan Prabhakar, Kiku Sharda and Sumona Chakravarti on the show. 
 
 
 
