NASHIK: The city will not get any new speed breakers unless the   grants its approval and they are designed as per the Indian Road   (IRC) rules. 

 Nashik municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had called the first meeting of the Urban Mobility Cell on Friday to discuss issues like encouraging walking, cycling, improving public transport system. Officials of the traffic police and other related departments attended the meeting. 
 
 "If the existing speed breakers are not as per IRC rules and Road Transport Authority ( ) permission, they should be removed," Mundhe said while discussing about speed breakers in the city. 
 
 There are around 450 speed breakers in the city and Mundhe had been insisting that these are not scientifically built. He added that the civic body has decided that no new speed breakers will be constructed in the city. As per the directions of the high court, speed breakers have to be approved by the RTA. It is the RTA that would decide whether these are needed or not and where these are needed. 
 
 At present, the civic administration constructs speed breakers based on the recommendations of the city traffic police. 
 
 Various other issues such as managing bus services by Nashik Municipal Corporation ( ) , making specific roads one way, installing signals at various squares along with pedestrian signals, beautifying various squares of the city were also discussed in the meeting. Mundhe gave instructions to various departments after elaborate discussion on all the topics. He spoke about the traffic police taking severe action against people who park vehicles on the roadside illegally and on the footpaths, finalising the number of authorised auto rickshaw parking and auto rickshaws stands.
 
 He said that the traffic police and the RTO should jointly inspect the haphazard parking of autos and fix locations for auto parking. They should not allow illegal parking in Dwarka naka, establish no vehicle zones in the city as per the need, make one way for specific roads, implement meter system in auto autorickshaws and take severe action against parking on roads in front of lawns and marriage halls. 
 
 Mundhe spelled out the NMC's policy of reducing the number of private vehicles on the city roads and shifting towards the use of public transport. There are also plans to establish infrastructure to encourage walking and cycling. 
 
 "We will soon be undertaking the work for barrier-free and pedestrian-friendly footpaths. NMC will soon take over the city bus service. Every signal in the city should have pedestrian signal for walkers to cross the road. The time of the signal should be fixed considering senior citizens, school children and women," Mundhe said.
 
 The various squares that should have signals, road crossing, authorised auto stand, zebra crossing by NMC, cat's eye on the road, sign boards were finalised in the meeting. Mundhe instructed NMC officials to cleaning footpaths at Dwarka naka, remove encroachments, clean the area and conduct an anti-encroachment drive in front of the market yard. He asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to clean the underpass, repair it and make it usable for pedestrians, erect boards and provide street lights on Mumbai-Agra service road.
 
 Assistant police commissioner traffic department, deputy regional transport officer, NHAI project director, Nashik, executive engineer of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd, Nashik, executive engineer state highways, Nashik First representatives were present for the meeting.
 
 
