MANSA:   Singh, 45, from village Khunan Kalan in   district became the first farmers in the state to get relief under the   government’s farm loan waiver scheme. He also got the highest waiver of Rs. 1.02 lakh that he owed to Khunan Kalan Agriculture Cooperative Society. However, this is not the end of problems for him as he still has outstanding loan amount of Rs 6 lakh.

 Gursewak, who owns two acres of land, said he took pride in in becoming the first beneficiary in Punjab and hoped that he would get further waiver in times to come.
 
 “I still owe Rs 4 lakh to the Punjab and Sind Bank and Rs 2 lakh to a commission agent. I owed Rs 1.02 lakh to cooperative society which was waived off today,” said Gursewak told TOI.
 
 “We hope the Punjab government will fully keep its word and loans up to Rs 2 lakh will be waived off and with it lot of farmers will be benefitted. I had taken advanced loan for agriculture implements and various jobs associated to farming,” he said.
 
 Another marginal farmer   of village Buladewala in   got a relief of Rs 76,100. He still owes Rs 2 lakh to   and Rs 2 lakh to commission agent. He owns two acres of land. “I owed Rs 76,100 to cooperative society and got full waiver. I want waiver of remaining amount out of Rs 2 lakh at the earliest so that we our faith in the government is fully restored,” he said.
 
 Farmer Inderjit Singh of village Sivia in Bathinda got waiver of Rs 80,665. He said he still had to pay back Rs 50,000 to a commission agent but was elated over getting his crop loan waived.
 
 Gurinder Singh of village Dohak in Muktsar got waiver of Rs 37,229. Owing two acres of farmland, he too has another loan of Rs 2 lakh from the Punjab and Sind Bank. Dhian Singh of village   in Moga got waiver certificate for Rs 45,112 but still owes Rs 1.5 lakh to a commercial bank.
 
 The story was same for Jaswinder Singh of village Kishanpur Kalan in Moga who got relief to the tune of Rs 54,221 but has to pay Rs 4 lakh in total to a bank and a money lender. He owns two acres of land. Farmer Baljit Singh of village Tamkot got waiver of Rs 42,110. He owns one acre of land and still owes Rs 4 lakh.
 
 Of those left out
 
 In contrast, Bhainibagha Village farmer Surinder Singh failed to get any relief though he owns only 1.5 acres of farmland. He owes Rs 55,000 to the local agriculture cooperative society. He said, “My name is not on the list of beneficiaries. I have approached the cooperative department officials but in vain.” Likewise Tamkot farmer Gurdial sIngh who owns two acres land and has to pay Rs 46,000 to a cooperative society said he had failed to get any waiver. “Injustice has been done to me,” he said. Concerned officials were too busy with the CM’s event to respond to their pleas on Sunday.
 
 
