Visakhapatnam:   women are making making strides in entrepreneurship. Women entrepreneurs, who are attending the three-day international women entrepreneurs’ conference, have interesting stories to share. While one is successfully running a chain of cafes, another is dedicated to training and educating the specially-abled children.

 Nearly 10   from Maldives attended the first two days of the conference. They revealed that in Maldives, women entrepreneurs do not receive much support from the government. But despite tax and loan hurdles, they are making their mark in businesses such as in the field of art — including culinary skills, crafts and jewellery making, textile and retail and so on.
 
 Juwayriyya Wajdy began her journey as a chef a few years ago. She said, “I realised that traditional flavours and cuisines are fading away. So I started writing my own recipe books. I focused on popularising traditional recipes used by mothers and grandmothers. I also took cookery courses for children and adults, participated in food exhibitions and finally started by own Juway’s café in Male, which at present has three outlets. My recipe books have a collection of over 6,000 recipes.”
 
 Fathimath Shifa Shaheem’s story is quite inspiring. Having seen a child with Down’s Syndrome in the family, she took to fighting for the rights of the disabled. She ensured that four government schools with provision for inclusive education come up for the disabled children. “I teach the specially-abled children craftwork and also impart vocational training. Besides promoting their products and facilitating their marketing, I also help women start their businesses, procure loans and so on,” said Fathimath, who was among the 30 young leaders selected in 2016 for World Youth Conference held in India.
 
 Other entrepreneurs like Aiminath Adam and Aiminath Wadheefa are into textile business. Some of them market their traditional crafts and garments online. Adam said, “I am in the business for almost 16 years. My husband also encourages me in my endeavour. We would like all Maldivian women to become economically independent.”
 
 
