PUNE: The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), Pune, detained a   in Mumbai on Saturday night on the suspicion of creating fake   and   for the three Bangladeshi immigrants, who were arrested in Pune on Friday for providing shelter to members of the outlawed   (ABT) here.

 A senior ATS official told TOI that the detention was carried out with assistance from the military intelligence unit of the Army Southern Command. The investigators are now focussing their probe on how the detained suspect managed to create the fake identity documents such as Aadhaar, PAN and Voter’s identity cards.
 
 
 “The possibility of him creating similar fake cards for other Bangladeshi immigrants cannot be ruled out. We are probing this angle,” the officer said.
 
 An ATS-Pune team visited Mumbai on Sunday as part of the ongoing probe.
 
 The officer said, “The detained suspect entered the country through the porous India-Bangladesh border five years ago. He managed to rent a room at Ulhasnagar in Thane district and got himself involved in different works, including the supply of labour — mostly illegal Bangladeshi immigrants — on contract. Investigators have also secured information that the detained suspect was involved in the prostitution business, particularly in Mumbai. We suspect he may have provided financial assistance to various ABT absconders, leaders and handlers.”
 
 The ATS and the military intelligence authorities have been working in tandem ever since they were tipped-off by the West Bengal police about the presence of ABT members in Pune.
 
 “One of the three arrested Bangladeshi immigrants was working as a mason at an army quarters construction site, located in the vicinity of a prominent army academic and training institution, at the time of his arrest,” an ATS official said.
  
 
 A senior ATS officer from Mumbai, who did not wish to be named, told TOI over the phone: “Over the past one decade, hundreds of Bangladeshi immigrants have managed to enter India through West Bengal. They are staying illegally in different states, including rural Maharashtra. Five days ago, we arrested five Bangladeshi immigrants from Raigad district. They too had managed to create Aadhaar and PAN cards of their own and were working at construction sites. The local police have a key role in keeping an eye on labourers.”
 
 Sources in the intelligence agencies said the ABT is a banned outfit in Bangladesh and is working as a front organisation of Al Qaeda in the southeast Asian countries. “They have created menace in Bangladesh and, therefore, Bangladeshi agencies have been cracking down on them. In the last five years, most ABT operatives have fled either to India or Nepal. Last year, two ABT suspects were arrested by the Gujarat ATS from Kutch and were handed over to the Bangladeshi agencies,” a senior intelligence official told TOI on Sunday.
 
 On Friday, the ATS Pune unit had arrested three illegal Bangladeshi immigrants identified as Mohammed Habibur Rehman Habib alias Raj Jesub Mandal (31), Mohammed Ripan Hussain alias Rubel Dalal (25), both residents of Satani Pushkali, Khulna, in Bangladesh, and Hanan Anwar Khan, alias Hanan Baburali Gazhi (25), of Birajikundi Shariyatpur in Bangladesh.
 
 “The PAN cards, Aadhaar cards and Voters’ IDs seized from the trio had fake and misleading names. We are probing the source of these cards. It is suspected that the trio used these cards to stay illegally in India to avert the attention of Indian and Bangladeshi intelligence agencies,” the officer said. These ID cards looked identical to the original documents issued to Indian citizens. The ATS officials are also attempting to find the links between the three suspects and the other six Bangladesh immigrants arrested in Panvel on Thursday by the ATS’s Navi Mumbai unit.
 
 “Even these three suspects had arrived in Mumbai first before shifting to Pune,” the officer said.
 
 (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)
 
