Manicure, pedicure, facial, hair spa — sounds like a woman’s weekend to-do list? You couldn’t be more wrong. Men in the city are investing time, energy and money on grooming themselves. They are the metrosexual men. And guys from all walks of life — celebs, lifestyle experts and even students — feel that grooming for men has become an important tool to put your best foot forward, from job interviews to boardroom meetings and even weddings and holidays. 
So how important is self-grooming in today’s time? We asked actor  , who’s popular for his uber cool look, and he said, “Given my profession, self-grooming is of utmost importance. I start my day by drinking a glass of water with apple cider vinegar. Drinking a decent amount of water and fruit juices is also good for your skin. I am not much into facials, pedicure or manicure but when I return home after a shoot I cleanse my face properly to get rid of the makeup. As for clothes, being comfortable is the key. You should always dress according to the occasion and never overdo it. I love wearing jeans and T-shirts. I also look up to Bollywood star   for the way he carries himself. Being metrosexual is a trend now and I feel the concept was made popular by Saif Ali Khan. He’s known for getting his manicure, pedicure and eyebrows done. I love his sense of styling especially the funky t-shirts and ripped jeans he sports. He also looks dapper in suits.”
 Wellness expert and image consultant, Dr  , feels that there’s no harm in being conscious about your looks and the idea of self-grooming starts at a young age in today’s men. “Self-grooming for youngsters start by them getting a trendy haircut. They also get their look redefined by doing eyebrows according to their facial contours and some even undergo skin treatments to lighten their complexion. They highlight their hair and also do hair spa once a month. Many follow a fitness regime curated by a specialist, supplementing it with a balanced diet,” he said.
 Another young   actor,  , who is known for his unique sense of style, feels that self-grooming and presenting oneself in public is something that Tollywood still needs to learn. “Only in Kolkata will you see people going in tees and jeans to award ceremonies. There is a saying, ‘pehle darshandhari phir goon bichari’, which clearly isn’t what Tollywood follows. I make sure I’m presentable every time I go out in public. In our business, we sell dreams. You can’t possibly look like a nightmare selling dreams,” he said.
 City-based makeup artist   thinks that self-grooming doesn’t have any gender bias. He says, “Not just women, grooming is very important for men. It doesn’t hurt their male ego to go for a manicure or a facial. Looking and feeling good is important. As far as the term metrosexual is concerned, it’s very significant in today’s urban life. Men have developed a sense of exploring things in terms of fashion and self-grooming and they devote a lot of time to how they look.”
 
