In the latest episode of   Kya Kehlata Hai, the men get busy applying mehendi on their wives hands. Suhana wants to ruin Naira's mehendi and asks Savita to mix black powder in her mehendi so that it could turn fatal.

 
 As she is about to get the powder, Savita falls and slips on the powder herself. Everyone looks on. Kartik and Naira look at her fall and laugh. Meanwhile, Rahul worries and says that they were not able to get their hands on any cash on jewellery to loot till now. Suhana reassures him that she will take away all the riches from the Goenka household and also harm Naira's reputation in front of everybody.
 
 As Naira waits for her mehendi to dry, her stalker continues to secretly click her pictures. Naira hears Savita's voice from behind, talking to someone. She goes to find out.
 
 Savita is shocked to see Naira and tries to make an excuse. Naira says that she knows everything about her and Suhana's plan and hopes that Savita gets scared and is forced to tell the truth in front of everyone.
 
 Savita doesn't say anything and feels that Naira was just acting smart in front of her. The conversation changes and Naira tries to trap Savita into helping her and locks her in the storeroom.
 
 Savita begs Naira to open the door while Naira waits outside and says she will only open once she tells everyone the truth.
 
 
  
 Kartik comes there and asks her what happened. Naira tells him that she got to know about Savita, Suhana and Rahul's real names and wanted to confront Savita aboout the plan. She asks Kartik to help and find some information on the internet about them.
 
 Kartik finds an article about Suhana and Rahul duping people for money and decide to find evidence for the same. Meanwhile, Suhana plans with Rahul to steal the jewellery from the house during the sangeet ceremony. She tells Rahul that the real keys for the safe are with Swarna and they hatch a plan to con the Goenkas. She asks Rahul to also keep an eye on Savita.
 
 Savita is unable to get out of the room. She finds a window there and plans to escape. She sees Kirti and Naksh outside talking about Naira's plan to give Suhana fake jewellery even if she runs away. Savita is shocked at hearing this and decides to escape but gets stuck midway.
 
 Swarna calls Kartik and Naira to the dance floor. Naira asks Suhana to dance with her. Swarna gives the keys to Dadi so that she doesn't lose them. Suhana hides a piece of glass in her hand in hopes of injuring Naira.
 
