CHENNAI: Later this month, John   and family will be ready to present their first batch of home-harvested honey to church. Two months ago, Manimaran decided to get into beekeeping so his family could have pure honey. “But I believe the first harvest belongs to god, so I will take my first batch to church,” says the 41-year-old insurance broker, one of several amateur apiarists in the city.

 After intense lobbying by environmentalists and apiarists, the   in December 2017, dedicated a date to the industrious insect — May 20 marks the first official World Bee Day, a tribute to the birth date of 18th century Slovenian apiarist  , a pioneer in modern beekeeping.
 
 Though the   registers the number of beekeepers in the state at 50, Srinivasan counts more than 50 people per district who have taken to beekeeping, making it more than 25,000 in TN. “People in south India rear the native Indian honeybee, which produces nearly 10kg of honey per hive per year. It’s only a fifth of what the European honeybee produces, but the native honeybee needs much less area of crop to thrive in,” he adds.
 
 Manimaran needed only an investment of Rs 7,000 for the two hives he has on the terrace of his Adyar home, and some basic equipment for cleaning and safety. “The bees do all the work. It’s like I have just given them a place to stay with lots of trees around,” he says.
 
 In Chennai, L Usha, who has been running beekeeping workshops since 2015, says in the last year, she has trained more than 100 people. “Apartment association heads come to me to learn how to rear bees within the complex,” she says, adding that the interest is because of the shift to indigenous and organic food. Usha, a former sales professional, says couples with young children sign up because they believe in the health benefits of honey, and are wary of what is being sold in the market.
 
 “Their biggest fear is the sting,” says Usha. “But over the years I have begun to understand bees. You need to have a calm mind when handling bees. They sense stress. If you are calm, they won’t sting,” says Usha.
 
 Manimaran, who used all his safety equipment complete with mask and hat and gloves, when he first set up his hive, now approaches the boxes with bare hands and face. “I used to get stung, but now that I don’t fear the sting, I don’t seem to get stung that often,” says Manimaran.
 
 The   (TNAU) in Coimbatore will mark the day with an exhibition of different types of honey, bee hives and bee-keeping equipment in the state. The event is being organised with National Bee Board. “The event is meant to tell people the possibilities in beekeeping,” says M R Srinivasan, professor of agricultural entomology department, TNAU. “In the last couple of years there has been a boom in the number of amateurs who are turning apiarists.”
 
 
