PANCHKULA: A spate of illegal sand   cases in the city has confirmed that the sand mafia is still active in the district. A week after 16 persons were booked for their involvement in illegal mining in the district, the Panchkula mining department conducted a raid on the complaint of area residents, who alleged illegal mining being done on the riverbeds of Panchkula. Six cases of illegal mining were registered in   and Chandimandir police stations. 

  
  
 
 Rajiv Kumar, mining officer in the mines and geology department, Haryana conducted checks and lodged a complaint with the police. In the first inspection, people were found involved in illegal sand mining on 1.5 acres of land near Bhanu. When the mining team, along with the police raided the place, they found 4-feet holes dug into the ground. Police arrested Sat Prakash, a resident of Bhanu and Manjeet alias Ajuba, a resident of Dera Bassi. They were booked under Section 21 of the Mines and Mineral Act, 1957 in Chandimandir police station.
 
 In the second raid, Chandimandir police booked Jai Singh Fauji, a resident of Rattewali village in a case of illegal mining. Officials found 100-feet and 75-feet deep holes dug up near Rattewali. The accused were booked under Section 21 (4) of the Mining and Mineral Act.
 
 SHO, Chandimandir police station, sub-inspector Mahmood Khan said, “We have registered two cases of illegal mining in a raid conducted with a team of the mining department. Investigations are on.”
 
 Also, four cases of illegal mining were registered at Raipur Rani police station. The accused were nabbed from   where the inspection team found 75-feet deep holes. 
 
 The accused, Kuldip Chandra, a resident of   village was booked under Section-21 (4) of the Mining and Mineral Act and Section 379 (theft) of the IPC.
 
 In the second case, Pradip Kumar, a resident of Khetarpal village was booked for doing illegal mining in the village. The raiding party found 100-feet long and 40-feet deep holes at the site. The accused were booked under Section-21 (4) of the Mining and Mineral Act and Section 379 of the IPC in Raipur Rani police station.
 
 In the third case, the team raided the area near Mandalay rivulet and found gravel picked up illegally in the 4000-feet area. The accused, Satbir Singh, a resident of Mandalay village was booked under Section-21 (4) of the Mining and Mineral Act and Section 379 of the IPC in Raipur Rani police station.
 
 In the last case, the raiding team nabbed Aslam, a resident of   village for doing illegal mining near his village. The accused was booked by the Raipur Rani police station under Section-21 (4) of Mining and Mineral Act and Section 379 (theft) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code).
 
 SHO, Raipur Rani police station, sub-inspector   said, “We have registered four cases. Investigation is in progress.” A total of 12 cases were registered in the district so far this year.
 
 
