NEW DELHI: Just besides the   — the former headquarters of the erstwhile MCD — the biggest community   serving the Chandni Chowk area lies in a state of disrepair. Local residents said unsanitary conditions of kitchens, choked drains, broken floors and non-functional toilets had made it a challenge to organise social gatherings, but with no alternatives available, the halls remained regularly booked.

 “Earlier, this used to be a single community hall, which has, over a period of time, been divided into three different units. Now, the corporation is getting three times the revenue from the centre, but no renovation work has been carried out in decades,” said M Nafis (50), who has organised gatherings at the venue on multiple occasions. “At one instance, the poor infrastructure has even led to a fire here,” he recalled.
 
 As one enters the Vishambhar Dutt Sharma community centre complex — as it the centre is officially called— the problems become immediately obvious. Md Gulfam — a member of the family that organised a reception ceremony recently said the main issues were sanitation and water. “The water motor is non-functional from many months, so we had to call a tanker at our own cost. We also paid Rs 1,500 to clean up the place. These expenses were above the official booking and security price.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Residents of the area said that they paid Rs 15,000 to 30,000 as the booking price, with a Rs 10,000 security per hall. However, the corporation has not invested anything back into the halls.
 
 “The kitchens have broken floors and charred walls. All three community halls have a common filthy toilet with no lighting. In fact, people who book the hall have to make their own arrangements to light it up,” Nafis said. When TOI visited these halls, it found two open kitchens being run in complete unhygienic conditions. “We know it might lead to diseases, but there is no alternative. We are taking as much precautions as we can,” one cook said.
 
 North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said several requisitions for renovation had been made, but to no avail. “We will look into the grievances. The   body is in a deep financial crisis and many developmental projects have been affected,” said an official.
 
 
