CHARMINAR: Overgrown and littered with dead leaves, Oontwadi graveyard, spread over 3,000 sq yards in Jummerat Bazaar, is lying in neglect.

 
 The graveyard, which is the final resting place for hundreds of people, has now turned into a stable for nearly 50 horses and camels.
  
  
  chairman Mohammed Saleem along with other officials visited the graveyard last year after repeated complaints were filed and removed all encroachments before issuing a warning to the owners of all horses and camels found inside.
 
 According to the activists, the Waqf inspector concerned is not taking any action on the issue in spite of being aware of the encroachments.
 
 “The auditor inspector of the area, who happens to take that route almost every day, is aware of the encroachment but hasn’t submitted a report on issue to the Waqf board,” a waqf activist said.
 
 The activists also say encroachments on waqf properties have only increased in recent time. Several other waqf properties in Attapur, Puranapul, Jiyaguda and Karwan have also been encroached upon. In some encroached areas, people have set up workshops and built houses within the waqf properties, including graveyards.
 
 “All the area inspectors of Waqf Board should submit a weekly report on all waqf institutions saying that the said properties are free of encroachments or vice-versa,” Mohammed Habeebuddin, waqf activist said.
 
 Chairman Saleem admits that several graveyards have been encroached upon. “Our intentions are clear. All encroachments will be removed with help from the   and the police,” he said.
 
 Interestingly, according to this year’s inspection report of the   ( ), the total waqf land under   is 77,677 acres of waqf land belonging to 32,596 institutions across the State, but out of which 89 percent waqf land is under encroachment or legal dispute.
 
 The report also revealed that the total number of cases pertaining to   and   pending before the   is over 12,628, out of which in more than 8,000 cases, the Waqf Board failed to file a counter or appeal against orders passes by the lower courts in favour of third parties.
 
 
