NEW DELHI: Upset by the controversy over 55 winners keeping away from the National Film Awards, Rashtrapati Bhavan is learned to have conveyed its unhappiness to the   over efforts to pass off shortcomings of the information and broadcasting ministry as “last-minute” changes in schedule. 

 
 President   had made it clear when he took office that he would not attend lengthy award ceremonies other than those involving his constitutional duties and this was conveyed to the I&B ministry well before the awards function.
 
 The plan was discussed when I&B secretary N K Sinha called on President Ram Nath Kovind on May 1 and this made it quite evident that there was no last-hour change that could have sparked off the protests, the source added. Rashtrapati Bhavan is understood to have shared its “assessment” with the PMO even as it pointed out that discussions regarding the ceremony were held over the past 6-8 weeks. 
 
 The discussions were held between officials and I&B minister   did not meet the President. Usually, when the President is involved, ministers call on him to extend the invitation. Sources said in the past, Presidents like K R Narayanan and A P J Abdul Kalam declined to hand out dozens of awards. 
 
 On one occasion relating to Kalam, the government reduced formalities for the film awards, such as speeches, to ensure the maximum number of awards was handed out by the President in the limited time. Rashtrapati Bhavan is also unhappy over journalists being “briefed” about the ceremony when the President was chairing the meeting of the national committee on Mahatma Gandhi’s 150th birth anniversary on May 2, a day before the award ceremony. Reports that the President’s decision had come as a surprise have annoyed Rashtrapati Bhavan and are seen as inaccurate. 
 
 While invitation cards to the awardees stated that the awards would be given by the President, winners were informed during rehearsals on Wednesday evening that he would hand out only some and this led to absenteeism and protests. In the past, Presidents S D Sharma, Pranab Mukherjee and Pratibha Patil have not given awards but for varying reasons. Sharma was indisposed and Mukherjee was present at the ceremony but had to rest as he felt unwell. Patil was travelling and then Vice-President   filled in for her.
 
