BENGALURU:   Ltd, the Singapore parent of online major Flipkart, has reported loss of Rs 8,771 crore ($1.4 billion) for the financial year ending March 2017, the latest regulatory filing shows. The company had reported a net loss of Rs 5,223 crore for 2015-16. This shows a 67% increase in loss for the homegrown e-commerce major. This rising loss indicates the intense spending Flipkart had to do on discounting and marketing in last financial year to fight the American rival  , which has also been spending aggressively here.

 In 2016-17, Flipkart’s revenue grew to Rs 19,854 crore at the end of March 2017 compared to Rs 15,403 crore in the previous financial year, documents sourced from business research platform Paper.Vc showed. 
 
 The latest financial numbers come at a time when Amazon announced its final quarter result for 2017 where it reported a $3 billion of loss for international business.
 
 Majority of Amazon’s loss in its global business is attributed to India. The company has been pumping capital regularly in India. It has already infused $3 billion. An email sent to Flipkart spokesperson did not elicit any response.
 
 “Flipkart’s loss remains in line with expectations and it will go up further as Amazon and Flipkart are competing directly and have access to funds, which will increase the burn rate. 
 
 Also, the focus on grocery, investment in offline channel and retaining market share is going to increase spending for Flipkart in 2018. One should remember that fashion is the only category, which is making FK stand out against Amazon. In other categories, Amazon is closing the gap very aggressively,” said  , analyst, Forrester Research.
 
 For Flipkart, which closed $4 billion in funding last year, 2016 was tough but it managed to make a turnaround during the festive sales to protect its leadership position.
 
 Flipkart CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy told TOI recently that the company was focusing on metrics like active monthly users and number of transactions they do on Flipkart, moving away from traditional practice of tracking gross sales as a measure of success.
 
