BENGALURU: The only thing worse than having one's vehicle towed away by   is trying to locate it. Police though are working on saving motorists the hassle. If a plan sees the light of day, boards will be placed at spots from where vehicles are towed, detailing the exact location and contact details of the police station where they can be recovered by owners. 

 Police said that such boards have been installed at common tow points at   limits on a pilot basis. R Hithendra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), said they have decided to extend this facility across the city. "We have received several complaints from   that they don't have any information about their vehicles once they are towed by the police,"   said. "Information boards will be a relief for such vehicle owners."
 
 Motorists have welcomed the move. "Recently, I parked my bike on the road and there was no signage to suggest it was a no-parking zone," said Renu Kumar, a motorist in   Town. "When I returned, my vehicle was missing. I panicked since I didn't know whether the vehicle was stolen or was towed. Later, some people told me they saw towing vehicles in the area, but they had no idea where to go or whom to contact. I ended up spending more than the fine amount locating the place where my bike was kept."
 
 Some motorists say police should educate local traders about parking rules and also keep them informed of the location where towed vehicles can be recovered. "They should also provide contact details of police stations in English," said Saurav Banerjee, a motorist on M G Road. 
 
  The city has 72.58 lakh vehicles, including 50.30 lakh two-wheelers and 14.04 lakh two-wheelers. Statistics show that of all traffic violations, wrong parking tops the list. Last year alone 21.36 lakh wrong parking cases were booked. This translates into 5,853 vehicles a day. 
 
 Experts say the sheer number of wrong parking cases indicates an increase in the number of vehicles and a shortage of parking space. Most commercial and residential buildings in the city don't have parking space, forcing motorists to park on the road. 
 
 
