PUNE: The city police arrested the second assailant in the murder of property developer   at  , off  , on Tuesday night. Earlier in the day, the police arrested a man from Thane for having harboured the two assailants and seized two firearms from his house.

 The Sinhagad Road police nabbed the second assailant,   (40), around 11pm after getting a tipoff that he was coming to Rajaram bridge. Shivtare, a resident of  , was on the run for around 10 days. On Sunday, the police had arrested the other assailant,   (41), from Jalgaon. Chorge is a resident of Manikbaug, Sinhagad Road.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone I) Basavraj Teli told TOI that the Sinhagad road police will hand over Shivtare to their Deccan Gymkhana counterparts.
 
 
  
  
 
 Chorge and Shivtare had fired five bullets at the 52-year-old Shah late on the night of January 13 in the parking area of his residence at Sayali Apartments in lane no. 7, off Prabhat Road. Two bullets hit Shah and he later died at a private hospital.
 
 Around 3am on Tuesday, the Deccan Gymkhana police arrested Surendra Shyamkar Pal (36) from his apartment in Azadnagar, Thane. The police said Pal had harboured Chorge and Shivtare after the murder. The police seized the two pistols used in the crime from the apartment.
 
 Senior inspector Ajay Kadam said that during his custodial interrogation, Chorge had revealed the places visited by him and Shivtare after the murder and also that they had kept the pistols with Pal.
 
 Kadam said Pal was arrested for not informing the police about Chorge and Shivtare visiting and leaving their weapons there. “The two stayed with Pal before moving to another hideout. Pal is a criminal on the records of the Thane police. He has two cases against him — body offence and gambling.
 
 However, despite the arrests, the police are yet to reach a conclusion over the motive behind Shah’s murder apart from the prima facie observation that it was a fallout of a dispute over money. Both Chorge and Shivtare are real estate agents and were involved in a land deal with Shah, for which they wanted an enhanced commission. They were pursuing this demand with Shah for the last 12 months.
 
