VISAKHAPATNAM: Commerce ministers of 14 countries and industry representatives from 40 nations would attend the third edition of CII-Partnership   to be held in   from Saturday, said state finance minister  .

 The minister on Sunday reviewed the arrangements being made for the business summit meant to attract big-ticket investments into  , which is being promoted as ‘India’s Sunrise State’ by the N Chandrababu Naidu government.
 
 “During the tours of our CM in Europe and  , several industrialists showed a keen interest to invest in  . Our state has an extensive coastline and ports like the one at Vizag. Since we have such resources supportive of export and imports, we need to make use of opportunities to help our state grow economically,” Ramakrishnudu said after the review meet at the collectorate, which was also attended by state HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao.
 
 While the first CII-Partnership summit in association with post-bifurcation Andhra Pradesh was held here in January 2016, the second was held in January 2017. The third summit too would be held in the port city from February 24 to 26 and the government wants it to be held on a bigger scale than the previous two.
 
 “The summits of 2016 and 2017 attracted 876 projects which are worth about 11 lakh crore. These projects would offer employment to 22 lakh people. About 47 per cent of these projects are grounded already,” the minister said, adding that food processing, IT, MSME sectors have offered a large number of jobs.
 
 “The industrial growth rate of the state has improved. We are aiming to have a large number of   this time too,” the minster stated.
 
 Ramakrishnudu said next year’s summit would be held in a permanent convention complex, the foundation for which would be laid during the summit. The convention complex worth 2,000 crore, to have a five-star hotel, commercial buildings etc. is to be built by   and is expected to be completed in a year’s time, the minister said in a press release issued by the district administration.
 
 The finance minister said the arrangements should be mesmerise the guests
 
 
