PUNE: Three constables, two of them women, were arrested on Tuesday for assaulting a resident doctor and roughing up a few paramedics at D Y   and Hospital in   on March 23. 

 Chetak   (26), who was suffering from  , died of cardiac arrest at the hospital on Friday night. The constables - relatives of the deceased - barged into the hospital's intensive care unit.
 
 
 
 
 Alleging negligence, one of them slashed the resident doctor's face with a scalpel while the others manhandled the nurses and women  .
 
 The trio was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage and the resident doctor’s statement, who identified them. The constables have been booked under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and provisions of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage of Property) Act, 2010.
 
 Inspector Masaji Kale of the Pimpri police said, “The involvement of the three constables was confirmed after we went through the CCTV footage. The medical staffers present at the time of the assault also identified them.”
 
 A doctor of the hospital said, “After we told the relatives of the patient's death, they flew into a rage and barged into the ICU. One of them slashed the resident doctor's face with a scalpel. Others joined him in the attack."
 
 Another resident doctor said, “A local politician hoodwinked the security by claiming to be a policeman and entered the ICU, where quite a few critical patients were undergoing treatment. He arrived with his supporters soon after the incident."
 
 When the patient was declared dead around 9pm on March 23, his five relatives — three women and two men — were present there. Two women instantly turned violent and started hitting the resident doctor. One of them picked up a scalpel and slashed his face.
 
 On seeing this, a senior doctor went to protect his junior. The two men immediately started beating him.
 
 A woman colleague of the doctors tried to intervene to save the two doctors. But she was also beaten up.
 
 The doctors pleaded to a bouncer present there to intervene. But he said the people were known to him.
 
 Hearing the commotion after almost 20 minutes, the doctors on the same floor intervened to protect the doctors who were being beaten up.
 
 Seeing this, a few more people entered the ICU on the hospital’s fifth floor and began beating up the doctors collectively.
 
 
 
 
 
