Udhagamandalam: Social activists have urged concerned authorities to evacuate encroachers from the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Ooty, saying the garbage generated by the stalls the latter have set up in front of it have taken the sheen out of the tourist spot, besides raising environmental concerns.

 “GBG authorities have to take action against the vendors who have encroached upon the footpath and the municipal road right in front of the garden,” said Sivadass, founder director of NEST, an environmental organisation. “GBG has a heritage value and it should be presented to the tourists in a pleasant way,” he added.
 
 Suggesting that the vendors could be allotted a specific place close to the garden so that they don’t lose their business, Sivadass also called on them to do their bit to protect the world-famous garden. “Most of them (vendors) are local people and they should be made aware of the importance of the garden and its tradition,” he said.
 
 Garbage strewn around garden’s entrance is, no doubt, an eyesore. “We have installed a garbage bin near the entrance. But people never take the pains to dump the waste there,” said a GBG worker.
 
 S Kumaran, a local resident, said the number of vendors at GBG has been on the rise every day. “With all the garbage strewn around, pedestrians hesitate to use the garden road. It is high time that the authorities have taken proper action against the roadside vendors,” he said.
 
 GBG officials, however, passed the buck to the district administration. “We had submitted a representation to the district administration in this connection, but in vain. The vendors also claim that the road and the footpath belong to the municipality and we have nothing to do with them,” a GBG official said.
 
 Asked about the inaction from the part of the municipality, C Ravi, Ooty municipal engineer and commissioner incharge, said, “We will inspect the area and evacuate the encroachers with the help from the police by the first week of March.”
 
 
