NAGPUR: Even though the state government is yet to issue any clarification regarding   (Amendment) Ordinance 2017, some universities have already started acting on the proposed provisions. This has raised questions regarding constitutional morality of university officials as well as that of the government.

 On November 20, TOI was the first to report about the state government’s plans to amend the Act. The amendments were made to Sections 30, 62 and 109 while new Section 99A was inserted in the Act.
 
 Through Section 30, draw of lots was introduced to decide representation of reserved category members from Senate in the Management Council. The amended Section 62 extended deadline for constitution of statutory bodies to February 28 and extension of time frame for grant of new college permission through Section 109. The new section 99A prescribed constitution of Students’ Council. The universities were directed to prefer old procedure of nominations in Students’ Council.
 
 The bill to replace the ordinance was placed in winter session and passed by assembly but it faced a constitutional deadlock in the council.
 
 In the wake of the impasse, universities had put on hold implementation of the amendments. But, on January 9, the   notified Students’ Council in accordance with Section 99A.
 
 NU sources said last week the state cabinet re-promulgated the ordinance. Since it is still not notified, it is not clear if new provisions are added or it is unchanged. “If unchanged, it will raise a question of constitutional morality. Ideally, the university should have waited till the government ratified the ordinance,” they said.
 
 Registrar   said the government has taken a decision in its cabinet meeting last week. “We are waiting for the notification,” he said, and referred the query about NU’s move to the VC.
 
 VC SP Kane didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 No plausible reason has also been given about the NU’s move to go ahead with only one of the proposed provisions. “The representation of reserved category Senate members in Management council as per Section 30 has been held back citing the deadlock. But, why Students’ Council constitution is notified is not clear. This is likely to create legal hurdles,” NU officials said.
 
 Academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra said, “This is non-application of mind.”
 
 Sources said the cabinet may have ratified the ordinance to extend its validity by three months. “By this time, the bodies would be complete. Won’t it be an insult of the legislative council?” they asked. 
 
 Education minister   didn’t reply to TOI’s SMS.
 
 
