KOZHIKODE: They could well be the farmers with the highest risk-taking appetite in the state. They have always bet on the soil, within and outside the state, and have come trumps up with bumper ginger crop almost every time over the years. They hit the jackpot in 2013 when ginger price hit a record of over Rs 7,000 per bag (60kg); right after a bad crop the previous year. This had spurred many to take up  .

 But this time, they are staring at the end of the barrel as ginger price have plummeted to as low as Rs 1,000 a bag over the past two years. 
 
 Almost 18,000 Keralite farmers, who have forayed into ginger cultivation in  ,   and  , are staring at debt.
 
 “It is peak harvest season and prices have slumped to Rs 1000- Rs 1,100 level, which is 20% less than last year’s price. Most farmers are buried in debt due to the low price which has been continuing for the past two years,” said general secretary of Kerala-based All India Ginger Growers Association Navrang Mohanan. He said a farmer had to spend Rs 45 lakh to cultivate ginger in 10 acres and the maximum yield would work out to 3,500 bags, which at current prices would fetch only Rs 35 lakh. “Most of our members have over 20 acres under cultivation and are staring at a loss of at least Rs 1 lakh/acre. Many have taken loans over Rs 50 lakh by pledging properties in Kerala to invest in farming. With current prices, many would default on their loan repayments. We have written to the Union finance minister to waive the interest during the past two years,” he added.
 
 While Kerala farmers have brought over one lakh acres in Karnataka under ginger cultivation, rising costs and issues with water availability had forced over 400 farmers to seek greener pastures in states like Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand over the past two years.
 
 “Many farmers went to north India as the cultivation cost is 50% less when compared to Karnataka. While land lease rate is Rs 1 lakh/acre in Karnataka, it is Rs 25,000 in Chhattisgarh and labour charges are significantly lower. Ginger cultivation in Karnataka is totally unviable at current prices,” said Jis Thomas, a farmer from Wayanad who has cultivated 20 acres of ginger at Kondagaon village in Chhattisgarh.
 
 He said that prices are low as farmers are resorting to panic selling fearing further price crash. “There is demand for ginger in major markets and if farmers can hold their crop for a couple of months, prices will improve,” he added.
 
 
