PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party leader Ajit   on Wednesday said that Pune’s guardian minister   has failed to maintain a balance while planning water distribution for the city area and rural regions. Hence, Pawar claimed, city residents remain unsure if they’d receive enough water through the summer months and Bapat is responsible for the mismanagement.

 Pawar was addressing a ‘halla-bol’ rally organized in Warje as part of NCP’s ongoing campaign against the   Party-led state government.
 
 The senior NCP leader stated that although BJP holds a majority in   and has a government at the state as well as the centre, several city-centric projects — including Smart City, PMRDA, ring road — have not moved ahead. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ assurance that the city’s garbage disposal issue will be resolved in a year has remained on paper, he pointed out. 
 
 Pawar also questioned the CM’s decision to allot the bio diversity park (BDP) land for the Shivsrushti project. “How has the CM decided to allot BDP land for this project? Land allotted to BDP is protected and it cannot be given for such a project. BDP-related issues are already under debate in the High Court,” he said.
 
 Further, Pawar said the state government has failed to generate employment and was only working in favour of a few industrialists. “The state government’s policy on education has hampered the daily functioning of educational institutes to a large extent. Students from economically weaker sections have not been able to receive a subsidy on their education fee,” he asserted.
 
 NCP leader Dhananjay Munde moved the focus toward the 16 BJP leaders and ministers involved in corruption scams worth Rs90,000 crore. “Even my sister (Pankaja Munde) was involved in the Chikki scam,” he stated, adding that he had tabled proof related to every scam in the state assembly but the CM gave a clean-chit to every minister. 
 
 Lok Sabha MP and NCP leader Supriya Sule pooh-poohed BJP’s plan to stage a daylong fast to protest the lost hours in Parliament. “They are in government and it was their responsibility to conduct the session. Why was the fast not planned while the session was on? What will the prime minister and BJP leaders achieve from this fast,” she sought to know. 
 
 
