CHANDIGARH: Two suicides were reported in the city on Thursday.

 A 17-year-old   allegedly ended her life at her employer’s house in Sector 18 on Thursday morning. 
 
 Awantika, along with her cousin  , 19, lived on the first floor of the house. 
 
 In her police statement, Shivani said, “I woke up around 6am and went downstairs to do the household chores.   was sleeping at that time. When I returned to my room an hour later, I saw Awantika hanging from a cupboard handle with a dupatta.”
 
 Shivani ran downstairs and apprised her employer of the incident. They brought Awantika down and took her to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.
 
 Police said no suicide note was recovered from the spot. 
 
 “Awantika and Shivani earlier worked at a house in Panchkula. Awantika had gone to her village in Hardoi district, Uttar Pradesh, about four months ago. She started working at the Sector 18 house on May 8,” said a cop. 
 
 “After coming back from her village, Awantika looked unhappy,” Shivani told the police. 
 
 Preliminary investigations suggested that she committed suicide as there were no injury marks on the body, the cop added. 
 
 The post-mortem examination will be conducted after her parents reached the city.
 
 Ruling at any foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings.
 
 Hours later around noon, a BA-I student allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Sector 52. 
 
  Kumari, 19, was a student of Government College for Girls, Sector 42. The incident came to light when her mother returned home from her workplace. On finding the main door locked from inside, Simran’s mother, along with her neighbours, broke it open and found her daughter hanging from the ceiling fan around 4pm.
 
 Police took Simran to GMH, Sector 16, where she was declared dead. 
 
 No suicide note was recovered from the spot. Police said they were recording the statements of her college friends and family members to ascertain the reason behind her taking the extreme step. 
 
 Police have initiated inquest proceedings.
 
 In the past one week, five Chandigarh residents, including three women, have committed suicide. 
 
