KOLKATA: The   (NGT) on Thursday laid a blueprint for the state government to crack down on rampant — and uncontrolled — entry of non-BS IV vehicle into the city. The green bench has also rapped the state for not complying with some of its earlier orders, like phasing out of old vehicles, increasing the number of auto emission test centres and procuring three more remote sensing devices.

 The NGT came down heavily on the state government while hearing a case filed by green activist Subhas Dutta. The case will be heard again on March 6.
 
 Citing the   report of the pollution control board for Howrah — 5-7 times higher than the safe limit — and “very very poor air quality” in Kolkata adjacent to a super speciality hospital, the bench headed by Justice S P   directed the state to form a committee with experts from the   (CPCB), the   and the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB). The committee will monitor the steps being taken by the state to combat air pollution and submit its report to the NGT on a regular basis. The committee must suggest ways and means to address environment issues.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Expressing its “tremendous dissatisfaction”, the NGT has specified a format for the compliance report vis-à-vis its series of orders on air pollution. In its order, the bench made it clear that the report must also mention every point of non-compliance and the reasons behind it. Departments like transport, environment and WBPCB should file separate affidavits on unresolved issues, the bench has ordered.
 
 According to NGT, from now on, every non-BS IV vehicle entering the city must carry a sticker of its emission standard and a token of permission for plying within the city only for seven days. The bench rapped the state when the latter pleaded for an exemption for buses.
 
 NGT has also expressed its displeasure on the state’s apathy for phasing out of old vehicles. “Does the state want to go for bullock-cart days. They can procure some zebras from the zoo to pull the carts,” the bench fumed. The state has been asked to submit specific data on year-wise phasing out of 15-year-old vehicles since 2012.
 
 The state’s failure to enhance the number of Auto Emission Test Centre and procure three more Remote Sensing Device has also been criticised by the NGT.
 
 The court has also directed the state respondents to find better technology/mechanism for conversion of commercial vehicles from traditional fuel (petrol/diesel) to CNG. 
 
 
