DHARAMSHALA: A seven-member team of  , which reached   district of Himachal Pradesh around 3pm, visited the Union Bank of India as it was the custodian bank for keeping question papers, DAV Cenetary School, where all three accused were working, and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, which was the examination centre. The team also took the three accused to a hospital to conduct their medical examination. 

 Inquiries revealed that the team first went to the school, where they took certain service records and appointment letters in their custody. Then they visited the bank, from where a ledger containing signatures of the people dealing with lockers was taken. They also visited the examination centre to check various other points, as it was located about 10km from the bank. According to the investigation report so far, main accused Rakesh Sharma (40), who was the centre superintendent of the examination centre, had gone straight to the centre for handing over a packet of economics paper, which got leaked, to Amit (clerk) and Ashok (peon).
 
 Atul Mahajan, principal of DAV School, averted queries but confirmed that the team had visited the school and other areas too. “The team visited the school and we are ready to cooperate at any level,” he maintained.
 
 The school had already suspended all these three employees after the local management committee had raised a demand that they had bought a bad name to the institution. It was on March 23 that the paper of computer was scheduled for which all these three accused had went to the bank to take the question papers. But they also took out a packet of economics paper, which was fixed for March 26. An image of a handwritten copy of the question paper had gone viral and the paper was cancelled after the CBSE director got the complaint for the same on March 26.
 
 The crime branch had reached Una following digital footprints and interrogation of the people from whose mobile phone the paper got circulated. It was the mother of a boy in Chandigarh, who had told the investigation agency that Rakesh was his relative and he had sent a picture of economics paper to her through WhatsApp.
 
 
