MUMBAI: The   ( ) has extended its contract with   till April 15 to ensure the live telecast of India women’s series against England in Nagpur next month.

 
 TOI has learnt that the decision to extend Star’s contract by a fortnight was taken as the last date for submission of bids for the BCCI’s media rights for international and domestic matches at home for the next four years has now been extended from March 27 to April 3. The India women’s team is supposed to take on England in a three-match ODI series, which is part of the   women’s ODI championship, on April 8, 11 and 14 at the VCA Stadium in Nagpur. Star’s contract with the BCCI was earlier supposed to end by March 31.
 
 “If we hadn’t persuaded Star to remain on Board, this series wouldn’t have been telecast as we’d have been without an official telecaster due to delay in the process to sell our media rights,” said an official.
 
 The move reflects how much importance the BCCI gives to women’s cricket these days. On February 14, TOI had reported about the BCCI ensuring live streaming of India women’s matches during their tour to South Africa on YouTube after the intervention of the   (CoA) member and former India women’s skipper Diana Edulji.
 
 Three rights packages on offer Meanwhile, the Board is set to conduct an e-auction for its rights for the first time, and has engaged a company called MJunction for this purpose. The rights have been split across three categories - a global television rights plus rest-of-world digital rights package, an Indiansubcontinent digital rights package, and a global consolidated rights package.
 
 “This will ensure, as in the past, that the BCCI is able to capitalise on the premium which a bidder might be willing to pay for consolidated rights. We expect competition amongst the bidders for these attractive packages. A global package will only further drive up the competition and does not seem to in any way impair on the aggressiveness that is expected in the individual packages. In fact, this will give bidders for individual packages an opportunity to outbid the global bid, as in an e-auction the parties have visibility to all leading bids in each package,” said a BCCI official.
 
 Currently, Star Sports, which has the BCCI’s broadcast rights for India’s international and domestic matches, pays Rs 43.2 crore per match (Tests, ODIs or T20s).
 
 It is learnt that the BCCI has set Rs 33 crore per match base price for the global TV rights and the rest of the world digital rights package, Rs 7 crore for the digital rights package for the Indian sub-continent, and Rs 40 crore for the consolidated package for global rights. This gives the bidders an option to submit separate bids for the global rights, Indian subcontinent rights or a consolidated bid for all the rights. The bid increment was fixed at Rs 50 lakh for the global TV and digital rights as well as the consolidated global rights and at Rs 12 lakh for the Indian sub-continent digital rights.
 
 India is scheduled to host 102 internationals during the rights period between 2018 and 2023 - 21 games in 2018-19; 23 in 2019-20; 14 in 2021-22; 23 in 2022-23 and 21 in 2022-23.
 
