Vijayawada: The Anna Canteens, proposed to serve nutritious food at a low-cost, still remain a dream. Infrastructure created for establishment of the canteens in the city is getting damaged as the delays prolong, and also because officials are proposing changes in their designs.

 After the huge success of NTR   near Velagapudi interim secretariat, the civil supplies department had proposed to start these canteens at 15 locations across the city. Akshaya Patra, a sister concern of ISKCON, will run these canteens along with civic body. These canteens will provide breakfast, lunch and dinner, at a price as low as Rs 5.
 
 The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has been directed to identify the sites for the constructions of canteens at important locations, including Vijayawada Government Hospital, Kaleswara Rao Market, Pipula Road Junction, Benz Circle, and other prime locations in the city. The civic body had handed over the sites at major points to the civil supplies.
 
 The civil supplies departments, which initiated to the subsidised canteens to provide nutritious meal for the poor and daily labourers at 15 locations across city, has failed to take the project further. 
 
 Officials, who completed construction of the canteen at Vijayawada Government Hospital and two other places months ago, are neglecting them now. “This clearly shows the negligence of officials. Thousands of poor patients and their attendants coming to the government hospital are spending hundreds of rupees to get a quality meal. 
 
 The construction of Anna Canteens gave hope for the poor, but officials have not started operations for months now,” said M Ananth, a junior doctor.
 
 Commissioner of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, J Nivas, said the Andhra Pradesh government is readying to start the canteens as a statewide programme soon, and they are waiting for a unified design. 
 
 The civil services department has verified the model of canteens successfully running in Bangalore, and will start similar ones in the city soon. 
 
 
