GURUGRAM: Sanitation workers across Haryana called off their 16-day-old   late on Thursday evening after a panel formed by the chief minister accepted a majority of their demands.

 The decision was taken after a meeting of the sanitation workers’ union with urban local bodies’ minister Kavita Jain and minister of state for welfare of scheduled castes and backward classes Krishan Kumar Bedi. 
 
  commissioner Yashpal   said lifting of daily   and other civic amenities would resume by Friday morning. “We have already started lifting garbage from the city streets from tonight. The situation will get back to normal on Friday morning,” Yadav said.
 
 The 16-day strike by the sanitation workers over a series of demands had bought to a standstill the city’s system of lifting garbage, inconveniencing traders and customers at marketplaces as people started avoiding these areas because of the stink from piled-up waste. 
 
 In several parts of old Gurugram, the agitating sanitation workers had been repeatedly stopping private agencies from lifting garbage. 
 
 The strike had prompted the chief minister to form a committee, which included minister Jain, to look into the demands of the agitators. Soon after the strike was lifted, members of the committee said Haryana was the first state to give benefits of the seventh pay commission to the sanitation workers.
 
 In Gurugram, the workers said they were not sure which or how many of their demands had been met, but were happy that talks had started. “We are definitely happy. We don’t have a complete declaration of the demands that were accepted. But we have been told that most of our demands have been accepted,” said Naresh Malkat, the secretary of the Nagar Nigam Karamchari Sangh.
 
 Yadav said the workers’ demand for “equal work, equal wages” has been accepted. He said the urban local bodies department will now prepare a web portal for employees to apply and their applications will be cleared by the civic authorities within two months.
 
 According to Yadav, contract workers, including sewer and sanitation employees, will be included in the MCG’s rolls. For inducting workers into the fire department, the state corporations will reissue a notice and employees will be given time to fulfil the requisite conditions, he said. No worker will be removed, he added.
 
 Employees will be given Rs 13,500 a month, along with PF and ESI (Employees State Insurance) benefits, Yadav said, adding that senior officials concerned will not get their respective salaries if the PF and ESI of the workers are not released.
 
 Officials said the chief minister’s committee would also discuss a proposal to make the employees permanent. The panel is expected to give its report to the government, following which a process is likely to begin.
 
 Earlier in the day, before the strike was called off, Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal held a meeting with MCG officials and directed them to rid the city of piled-up garbage over the next two days so that it doesn’t lead to spread of diseases.
 
 Shop owners and residents of Sadar Bazaar complained about the unhygienic environment they had been living in over the past few days. “Our business has suffered highly because of the garbage fills. Nobody wants to stop by in the area”, said Sushil Kumar, a shopkeeper in the old city. “The foul smell makes it next to impossible for us to sit in our shop. We have to take antibiotics to survive every day,” added local vendor Rahul Verma.
 
 Most shops in the area have already been shut down because the staff there have refused to work in such an environment. 
 
 (With inputs from Saina Takkar)
 
 
