KOTA: A student from  , who was taking coaching for IIT-JEE in  , committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling fan of his hostel room on Wednesday night.

 
 In his suicide note, the 17-and-a-half years old boy wrote, “I did not find any adventure in this world, so I want to leave (it).”
 
 He mentioned that neither his parents nor the coaching institute was responsible for the extreme step he was taking, police said.
 
 “The boy was identified as   and was a resident of   in Bihar. He was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his hostel room on Road Number-5,” said Hazari Lal, an Assistant SI at Kota’s Vigyan Nagar police station.   is investigating the suicide case.
 
 “Kumar’s friend from Bihar who lives in an adjoining room of the hostel, had knocked at the former’s door around 9pm to study together but there was no response,” said the policeman investigating the case. After knocking a few times Kumar’s friend peeped into the room through the AC window hole and saw him hanging from the fan. The hostel warden and subsequently the police were informed.
 
 “Kumar had passed Class XII and had been preparing for IIT-JEE entrance test at a coaching institute in the city for the last two years,” the   said, adding that it was reported to be Kumar’s second attempt for the entrance test.
 
 According to his mates in the hostel,   was an average student. ASI Hazari Lal informed that police have sought record of his studies in the institute, .
 
 In the suicide note recovered from his room, the deceased had made a request that his parents and coaching institute may not be troubled, the ASI said.
 
 Kumar’s body has been placed at a hospital mortuary for the postmortem to be carried out after the arrival of his parents, who have been informed of the tragedy, the policeman said.
 
 It is the 8th suicide by a coaching student in Kota this year. At least seven coaching students committed suicide in Kota in 2017. The district administration and the management of the coaching institutes had initiated measures to check suicides and several activities were carried out in 2016.
 
 
