Following this, the workers filed a case of contempt of court in the Madras high court. The university approached the court and sought a stay order against the labour court verdict. However, the HC passed a conditional stay order, directing the university to either pay the salary or reinstate them until the final hearing of the case.

 Following this, the university has been paying the monthly salary to the 63 terminated staff. However, they were not reinstated. “When we were working, the university spent Rs 15 lakh to Rs 20 lakh per semester,” said general secretary of the union M Manivannan.
 
 The university recruited 61 persons – including three system administrators, two web managers, two system analysts and nine assistant-cum-computer operators – in early 2014 to carry out the pre and post examination works. “Though the university has an exclusive workforce to carry out the exam works, it has been outsourcing them. By doing so, the university is paying over 100 workers without using their skill. The officials are doing this to pocket lakhs of rupees,” alleged another employee of the union.
 
 “The persons recruited, after termination of 63 workers for carrying out the examination-related works, are posted to various departments,” said Peruvazhuthi, who is also the finance officer (in-charge) of the university.
 
 Even the directorate of local fund audit raised an objection in its annual report of 2014-15 for outsourcing the examination work.
 
 However, in a glaring violation of the rules, the officials continue to outsource the work.
 
 For instance, the university had given the work for semester exam held in November-December 2016 to the same firm before obtaining the nod of the finance committee. “The examination work was given to the private firm on November 4, 2016, whereas the syndicate meeting referred the subject (item no. 34) to the finance committee six days later (November 10, 2016),” said a reliable source, pointing out a gross violation of the University Act.
 
 Apart from this, the members of the union said that the officials handed over the November-December 2017 semester work to the same firm without floating a tender. It is against the Tamil Nadu Transparency Tenders Act, 1998, and its Rules.
 
