CHANDIGARH: Students wanting to get admission into undergraduate courses at   ( ) (deemed-to-be university), will have to apply through   (JOSAA)/   (CSAB), 2018. Now, the counselling for the admissions will take place as per the schedule released by JOSAA and CSAB which conducts the admission process of NITs, IIITs and Centrally funded technical institutes for the 2018-19 academic session. With this, the visibility of the institution at the central level will increase and more students from different states will also apply for admissions.

 However, this won’t affect the 50% quota meant for candidates who have passed their qualifying examination (10+2) from schools in Chandigarh. “The criterion to get the admission remains the same and instead of applying through JAC, now the students will have to apply through CSAB/ JOSAA. This will help us increase our visibility and students from southern states will also opt for admissions at PEC,” said a member of the admission committee of PEC. The admission will be merit-based on rank of candidates in JEE (Mains) 2018.
  
  
 PEC on Monday announced that the aspirants are advised to regularly refer to the institute website (www.pec.ac.in) and also (https://csab.nic.in) for complete schedule of counselling and other updates on UG admissions. For candidates belonging to categories including sportspersons, sons/daughters/spouses of military/ paramilitary personnel, children/ grandchildren of freedom fighters and Kashmiri migrants.
 
 
 The Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JOSAA) 2018 has been set up by the ministry of human resources development (MHRD) to manage and regulate the joint seat allocation for admissions to 100 institutes for the 2018-19 academic year. This includes 23 IITs, 31 NITs, 23 IIITs and other-government funded technical institutes (other-GFTIs). Admission to all the academic programmes offered by these institutes will be made through a single platform. Central seat allocation board (CSAB) consists of NITs, SPAs, IIITs, GFTIs and other select reputed institutions or deemed universities. The CSAB-2018 is being coordinated by Malaviya National Institute of Technology, Jaipur, with its director as coordinating chairman.
 
 
