KOLKATA: Are you wary of the   of your last drive to  ? Here’s some good news for you. Your next ride to the station may not be as bone-jarring as the   (KMDA) has planned to give all roads around the station a   to prevent them from seasonal damage.

 “Our plan is to renovate all Howrah station-connecting roads. Work is expected to start from March,” said an official from KMDA’s traffic and transportation section. Although the area is under Ward 14 of Howrah Municipal Corporation, the area around the station is looked after by KMDA.
 
 There are primarily four main stretches in Howrah station area that connects the station with Howrah bridge and the rest of Howrah — Mukhram Kanoria Road, IC Bose Road, Rishi Bankim Road and Howrah Bridge Link Road. IC Bose Road and Rishi Bankim Road, which are made of old-stone bricks, are particularly in bad shape. Craters make life tougher for the motorists. There have been multiple accidents on these stretches in the last few months. “There has been no maintenance work on these two stretches for a long time,” claimed locals.
 
 Mukhram Kanoria Road, on the other hand, is the most important stretch on Howrah side as it links Rishi Bankim Road and leads to Howrah bridge. It is in a very bad shape as well and traffic movement may get severely affected if not repaired at the earliest, said a bus driver who plies on the road regularly.
 
 Among other roads, the IC Bose Road that moves towards Salkia and Howrah bridge link road through which all Howrah-bound vehicles from city enter after crossing Howrah bridge. According to locals, parts of this stretch gets damaged after heavy downpour, causing much inconvenience for motorists.
 
 Out of the four main stretches surrounding Howrah station, Rishi Bankim Road, which moves along the river side and IC Bose Road are made of stone bricks and are in a very bad shape. The stone bricks on the road are damaged at various places giving birth to pothholes and craters. “There has been no maintenance work on these two stretches for a long time,” said locals.
 
  
  
 
