KOCHI: The members of the   (BJSS) and various resident associations in   said that several wells in the Aluva municipality are on the verge of drying up due to alleged illegal and excessive drawing of groundwater from 22 wells spread over various wards including 9, 10, 12, 18, 19, 21, 22 and 23 in the municipality.

 Seby V Bastin, an independent councillor from Aluva and the chairman of BJSS said the practice of illegal drawing of water is now being carried out on a commercial basis. He also said that the most of the wells from water is being drawn illegally are located on the banks of Periyar and it has disturbed the natural replenishment of river.
 
 “Around 22 wells were dug up very recently. A few weeks ago a bore well was drilled inside an existing well”, said Bastin, who along with three resident associations like   Assosciation, High Road Residents Assosciation and Shanthi Nagar Residents Assosciation formed Aluva BJSS as the menace of illegal water tapping escalated.
 
 “We have submitted a petition to district collector   and groundwater department officials. They have promised to look into the issue and take necessary steps, said Bastin.
 
 H Narayana Aiyer, convener of BJSS said that a groundwater exploitation mafia is functioning just like sand mafia in Aluva. “Water tankers with a capacity of 36,000 litres water are illegally transporting water from wells in our
 
 area. They sell the water at a high price. The Kerala Water Authority’s water pump station supplies 200 truckloads of water on a daily basis. It is sad to note that despite having such a facility at doorstep, people are resorting to illegal tapping of groundwater from wells,” said Narayana Aiyer. Ashok Pandalam, former president of   Residents’ Assosciation, said that water was being drawn from all the 22 wells violating the norms and regulations including Kerala Ground Water (Control and Regulation) Act 2002 and Environmental protection Act of 1986.
 
 Ashok who has actively participated in the national campaign for Right to Information said that nobody is against taking water but it should not be done illegally and by exploiting common resources. “Water tankers should take water only from those sources which have been legally approved by the district administration. We don’t have any problem if the water is used for drinking purposes in water scarce areas but these days it is being used to fill swimming pools and other such purposes, he said.
 
