AMRITSAR: Acting on one of the resolutions adopted during the Sarbat Khalsa in November 2015, a group of Panthic organizations constituted   (WSP) during the World Sikh Convention (WSC) held in the US on March 3.

 New York-based Himmat Singh told TOI on Tuesday, “Panthic organizations from 16 countries have put forward candidates for the WSP.” He said Dupinderjit Singh and   from Germany and Holland, respectively, had announced names of 13 and 14 Sikhs from the UK and Europe. “The total number of WSP representatives has now gone up to 94 from 16 countries with 56 spots left from outside India and 150 from India,” he said. Himmat further said that the nominations for the vacant seats were open to all global Sikh organizations that wished to participate in the process.
 
 During the Sarbat Khalsa held on November 10, 2015, at Chabba village near Amritsar, the participants had adopted a resolution seeking the formation of WSP under the aegis of the Akal Takht. Apart from that ‘jathedars’ of five Takhts were also appointed. Himmat said, “Issues such as inclusion of representatives from sections of global Sikh community, including Wanjara, Sikligar and Afghani Sikhs, was discussed,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Sikh preacher Baljit Singh  , who was appointed as the ‘jathedar’ of Takht Damdama Sahib during Sarbat Khalsa, said, “Neither me, nor the ‘acting jathedar’ of   knows about the WSC or formation of WSP.” He quoted an example that when former jathedar of Akal Takht Ranjit Singh was in jail, Prof Manjit Singh was made the acting head of the supreme temporal seat of Sikhs and took all decisions and gave statements until the former was released.
 
 “In this case nobody contacted Mand and we don’t recognize WSC or WSP,” he said. He alleged that there were few organizations which were ‘misusing’ name of Jagtar Singh Hawara, assassin of former Punjab chief minister  , who was appointed as the ‘jathedar’ of Akal Takht during Sarbat Khalsa. “We will meet Hawara in jail and ask whether he had given his consent for the formation of WSP,” said Daduwal.
 
 
