GURUGRAM: Tarun Verma, a 25-year-old automobile engineer, may now hope to get an alternative   soon, months after   allotted him a piece of land that it did not own and allowed him to mortgage it for a bank loan that has already cost him several EMIs.

 The urban development body is claimed to have identified four plots, each of 55sq yards, one of which will be given to Verma in lieu of the original plot in Sector 23A. Huda officials said the identified plots — all in Sector 23 — were free from any kind of litigation or encroachment.
 
 
  
 
 On May 27 last year, Verma had bought a piece of land from Huda through   for Rs 28 lakh and subsequently received its nod to mortgage the plot for availing a bank loan of Rs 40 lakh for building a house there. 
 
 He had also got the possession certificate as well as conveyance deed, all within four months. Finally, he had got the approval for his building plan too on September 25, only to be told a week later that he could not start construction on the plot.
 
 For, Huda, after allotting the plot and eventually completing all other formalities, realised that the 55sq-yard plot in Sector 23A it had allotted to Verma did not belong to the development authority. 
 
 Since then, Verma had been making rounds of the Huda office and paying Rs 31,000 as EMI for the loan he had availed against the original plot.
 
 “Following a directive from the chief administrator’s office, we have selected four plots in the same sector for allotment. We have sent a proposal for alternative   to Verma and hoping to get the approval from the head office at the earliest,” said Huda estate officer Sanjeev Singhla.
 
 “The only reason to purchase a plot from Huda, and not a private developer, was that I had thought everything would be fine. But even Huda is not different. I hope Huda will deliver a plot (without any flip-flop) this time,” said Verma.
 
 According to the rules, if Huda fails to give possession of a plot within 30 days from the date of its allotment, the authority will have to pay an interest of 5.5% per month. About the compensation, Singhla had earlier said the plot owner could submit a formal application in this regard. “We will forward it to the chief administrator who has power to approve it.”
 
 Singhla said Huda had also sent a consolidated list of 188 people, who have been waiting for alternative plots.
 
 
