LUCKNOW: With temperature rising constantly and   still not starting fogging, Lucknow residents will have to bear the pain of mosquito bites and live under the treat of contracting vector-borne diseases. 

 The alarming increase in cases of dengue, malaria and chikungunya in the last few years have also failed to goad LMC into taking action as it has been postponing fogging on citing lack of funds or claiming that March is not the apt month.
 
 LMC has also failed to adhere to recommendations of the technical advisory committee (TAC), set up in October 2016, saying that anti-larval spraying and fogging should begin by January every year. LMC is already running two months behind TAC schedule. Besides, its inability to keep the city clean has increased massive mosquito breeding. Choked with garbage, city drains and stinking waste heaps on roads are perfect sites for mosquito breeding. 
 
 LMC says that it has begun area-wise fogging in city and it is going on in Darulshafa, Kalidas Marg, La Place, Butler Palace etc. - all being VIP areas. 
 
 LMC's senior health official said, "We always begin fogging with VIP areas as complaints start pouring in from them first. From April, fogging vehicles will start reaching other colonies too. We have sought funds from health department for fogging in other areas."
 
 Meena Kesarwani, a resident of  , said, "Earlier, they cited staff and equipment shortage and now they claim fund shortage as the cause of delay in fogging. We complained to LMC many times. They don't want to do fogging in non-VIP localities."As a practice, LMC raises advance bill in the name of health department to buy fogging chemicals. But every year, LMC itself allocates Rs one crore for fogging which was disbursed in January but has not been used.   of   said that locals have been insisting on fogging since March first week. "The anti-larval spray and fogging should have been done before March to prevent breeding. But they do not care for us or public health," he added.
 
 
