NEW DELHI: Tottenham forward   believes that the club can finish in the top four with victory over Brighton the key, a win which would also secure them passage to next season’s Champions League. 

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Tottenham, after losing at home against   at Wembley at the weekend, are sitting fourth in the   table with 67 points. Despite that setback against the newly crowned   champions, they are seven points clear of fifth-placed Chelsea with only five games to play. Kane was positive of delivering not just against Brighton but also versus Manchester United in Saturday’s FA Cup semi-final. 
 
 
 ALSO READ: 
  
 
 “Finishing in the top four is very important, absolutely. We have the FA Cup to look forward to but we have to focus on the league first. Champions League football is a must, and we’re in a great position to get there,” the 24-year-old told TOI. “I think we’ve got to try and win the FA Cup too. If we do that, we can say it’s been a very good season. It would be good to win something together after all the hard work we’ve put in.”
 
 Following a season in which Tottenham were unbeaten for 14 games, during which they played Liverpool, United, Arsenal and Chelsea, the club now look set to set to finish in the top four for the third season in a row, which will be a first for the club since the 1960s, when they were managed by the legendary Bill Nicholson and won double titles. 
 
 “It’s good because at the start of the season we said to each other that we don’t just want to be a team that gets there one or two years and then falls off. I think we deserve to be there. We showed this year in the Champions League that we can compete with the best. Obviously, it was disappointing to go out in the end against Juventus, but we had some great results, including beating Real Madrid, so we want to be there again next year and do even more,” said Kane. 
 
 For Kane, the key for Tottenham moving to the next level was to win titles to compete in the Champions League. “You have to think about yourselves and your own goals. Obviously Manchester City have run away with the league this year, and fair play to them. But for us, it’s about maintaining the Champions League every year, and trying to win a trophy. We’re in a good spot and I think we’ve had a good season. We need to finish it well and kick on from there,” he said. 
 
 “It’s a competition that once you’ve experienced then you want to be in there every season. I’ve always said that what the club needs to do is keep progressing. But we also want to start winning trophies. That’s the aim,” he said. 
 
 In terms of goals, Kane, with 25, is five behind Liverpool’s Mo Salah and was hopeful of winning the Golden Boot. “While there are still games left then there is still a chance! I’ll keep trying. There are still games to play and I always believe in myself,” he said. “Football is about what you achieve as a team. But after that, obviously as a striker, it would be great to win the golden boot again. So I will keep working hard from now until the end of the season. I’ve got to focus on my game. I can’t control what he does, so I’ve just got to make sure I prepare well. Salah’s done fantastic - he’s a great, great player. For me, I’ve got to focus on my own game and my own team, and we’ll see what happens.”
 
 
