AMRAVATI: A girl student of PR Pote College of Engineering attempted to end her life by consuming phenyl and anti-mosquito liquid on Sunday morning. The girl had been allegedly molested by some male class mates while on a visit to Chennai last month. The college had allegedly not acted on her complaint, forcing her to lodge a police complaint on January 26.

 The girl has been admitted to the District General Hospital for treatment. She is a student of   at the college run by PR Pote (Patil) Education and Welfare Trust, headed by guardian minister Pravin Pote.
 
 The college had taken a trip of the students to Tamil Nadu last month. On December 28, the victim was travelling on a train to Chennai with other students and accompanying lecturers when  , another college student, allegedly molested her. When she raised an alarm, he fled away. During the group’s stay at a hotel in Chennai later, the girl confronted Mehul about his misbehaviour.
 
 The boy allegedly dragged her into a room in the hotel and again molested her, and also beat her up. While she was leaving the room, students   and Piyush Bhannare, who were standing outside, teased her. When the victim lodged a complaint with the male and female lecturers accompanying the students, she was reportedly told that they would initiate action on reaching Amravati.
 
 The college later took written apologies from the students, but did not initiate any action against them, said the victim in her complaint lodged with Nandgaonpeth police station on January 26. It appears from the complaint that the college management had tried to hush up the molestation complaint.
 
 Following her complaint, Nandgaonpeth police had booked the trio of Mehul Thakare, Piyush Dilip Bhannare and Shubham Bhurade under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 On Sunday morning, the girl consumed Mortein and phenyl. When her friend saw her in a critical state, she called up   police, who rushed her to the District General Hospital, where her condition is said to be improving.
 
 The college principal has said that following the police complaint by the victim, the college has cancelled the admission of the accused students.
 
