NEW DELHI: The   on   came in for some tough questioning on Wednesday in the Delhi  , which reminded the panel that it was not a “superpower”.

 A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli questioned the committee’s lawyer and demanded an explanation on why it had ordered sealing of a factory premises in north Delhi when the matter is sub judice before the bench that has reserved its judgment.
 
 “Is the monitoring committee acting on half-baked information? Just because you have been authorised by the Supreme Court doesn’t make you a  . You, too, are bound by the same laws applicable to everyone else,” an annoyed bench said.
 
 The panel had argued that the sealing was directed on January 11 as the north corporation had failed to inform it that the judgment was lying reserved with this bench in appeal and a single judge had already ruled in favour of the petitioner,   Ltd. The corporation has challenged the single-judge order.
 
 “What is your duty? You won’t verify? You can’t wait for a judgment and will overlook it?” the court shot back when the committee’s lawyer tried to blame the corporation. 
 
 On its part, the corporation, through standing counsel Mini Pushkarna, said the civic agency had acted on the instructions of the SC panel and sealed portions of DCM Complex at Bara Hindu Rao. The corporation has challenged the single-judge order. 
 
 The bench then directed the corporation and DCM to file affidavits in response to the stand of the monitoring committee that it was a general direction for sealing and not against a particular unit. It also allowed temporary de-sealing of the factory on Thursday to enable its staff to retrieve key documents.
 
 Appearing for DCM, senior advocate Arvind Nigam alleged the committee didn’t just ignore the HC proceedings but even the order of the appellate tribunal of the corporation which, in 2012, had ordered de-sealing of DCM Flatted Factory Complex after it was sealed a year ago. Since the committee was a party to the tribunal proceedings and never appealed against it, the order became final, Nigam claimed. HC asked the parties to produce the tribunal order and clarify if it was ever challenged.
 
 DCM has challenged the panel’s direction that all commercial establishments in DCM Flatted Factory Complex be sealed immediately. The panel has cited an inspection carried out by it at the complex at Bara Hindu Rao and Kishan Ganj where it found misuse at most of the flatted factories in the shape of commercial establishments. They violated sanctioned building plans and master plans 1962 and 2021, it has said.
 
 But HC noted that the sealing order didn’t reveal the date on which the panel had inspected the premises. The court wants to verify if the inspection was conducted recently — after the judgment was reserved or before that, the bench said. 
 
