SURAT: While   are building pressure on the Surat Municipal Corporation ( ) to ensure free basement parking in shopping malls, private hospitals and commercial complexes as per rules prescribed in the   (GDCR), the civic body officials did not find anything wrong if the mall management charged fees for parking.

 Citizens claimed that the shopping malls have been charging hefty parking fees ranging from Rs 30 to Rs 40 for the cars and two-wheelers and that the owners visiting the malls prefer to park their vehicles on the roadside, thereby obstructing traffic. Talking to TOI, additional city engineer, central town planning, Ketan Patel said, “The civic body cannot lawfully enforce free parking in shopping malls. I believe some shopping malls are doing wonderful job as they take fee for parking as they spend money to maintain the parking slots. Even civic body is giving contracts for parking on the public roads, so what is wrong if the shopping malls charge money for parking.”
 
  activist   has urged the civic body to follow the rules prescribed in the GDCR for providing free parking by commercial establishments. It is the duty of the shopping malls to provide free parking to visitors or the civic body has the right to cancel their building use certificate (BUC).
 
 Modi stated that most of the shopping malls have constructed barricades and cabins to collect parking charge at the entry and exit. Mall management have rented out the parking area to a contractor for commercial use and ultimately they are collecting money. So, it is deemed to be considered as commercial activity in parking, which is not allowed as per GDCR. Renting out a parking which is a part of commercial establishment and approved by SMC is considered as encroachment.
 
 “Does SMC allow any citizen to cover balcony, parking or back yard and use it for commercial or renting purpose? Malls have covered the parking areas and the visitors are forced to pay the charges. To avoid parking charges in the mall, people park their vehicles on the roadside, thereby creating the traffic issues,”   said.
 
 Another activist and president of   (SAAC) Sanjay Ezhawa has given an ultimatum to the civic body to act fast or else he will be forced to file a writ petition in the   high court against the illegal parking in the shopping malls.
 
 Ezhawa said, “A particular shopping mall in Piplod has the basement parking to accommodate 1,000 vehicles per day. If we calculate Rs 40,000 parking income per day, it comes to around Rs 1.20 crore a year. Even if you park your vehicle for 5 minutes, you have to pay Rs 40. All this is happening right under the nose of the civic body, which is not bothered to implement the GDCR norms.”
 
 
