RAJKOT:  , India’s flagship carrier   has decided to extend its operations from the city to Mumbai seven days a week. 

 Presently, Air India operates   flight from Monday to Thursday. The 72-seater aircraft lands in Bhavnagar from Mumbai at 7.25 pm and takes off at 7:45 pm for Mumbai.
 
 Bhavnagar airport director Sudha Murali said, “Air India has planned to operate daily service from January 28. More scheduled flights under regional air connectivity scheme ( ) of the central government will also commence operations from Bhavnagar.” 
 
  is also commencing operations under RCS from Ahmedabad to Bhavnagar and Bhavnagar to Surat from January 23. Air Odisha’s general manager (operations)   said, “We have been granted all the statutory approvals to commence the operation. We plan to start daily flight from this and other locations like Mundra, Jamnagar and Diu to Ahmedabad this month. But timings would be decided after January 15.” 
 
 The business community in Bhavnagar and those operating in Alang ship-breaking yard have been demanding more air connectivity for the city since many years.
 
 Joint secretary, Alang Ship Recycling Association, Haresh Parmar said, “We currently have only evening flight to Mumbai. We have been demanding a morning flight and at least two a day. Due to the industrial growth, there are large number of people, mostly businessmen, travelling between Bhavnagar and Mumbai. Till now, most of us travel all the way to Ahmedabad to catch Mumbai flights.”
 
 Sunil Vadodaria, vice president of Bhavnagar Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, “Tavelling to Mumbai and Delhi has been a headache for us. We need two daily flights to boost our business. We also need competition because sometimes we have to pay very high prices and get much cheaper flights from Ahmedabad or Vadodara.” 
 
 The meeting of airport advisory committee was held in Bhavnagar on Thursday in the presence of local MP Bharati Shiyal and all the stake holders were informed about Air India’s plans.
 
 Besides businessmen, the increased air connectivity would came as a blessing for large number of Jains visiting temple town   near Bhavnagar.
 
 Bhavnagar’s rail connectivity to Mumbai is also scant with just one daily train. 
 
 The daily flights to Mumbai are important considering the upgradation of Alang shipyard with financial assistance from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Sources said that JICA teams and environment experts often visit Alang to review the progress.
 
 
