AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court’s strict stand against   — the warning to issue the   and to   — has jolted a   out of his non-responsiveness. He has sent a divorce decree and paid Rs 15 lakh to his wife to settle the case of dowry and domestic violence filed by her. Responding to a spike in the cases of NRG husbands deserting their wives, the high court had recently started directing authorities to issue red corner notices to bring the men back to India to face trial. 

 In the case involving a Vadodara couple — Ravi Dhanwani and Sajana Ruchandani — the red corner notice directives brought quick results. Sajana married Ravi in 2013 and went to the US in 2014 only to return after alleged harassment. She lodged a complaint against her husband and in-laws for domestic violence and dowry demand. When the in-laws came before the high court for quashing the FIR, the high court said, “It appears to be a case of a dead marriage. There appears to be an irretrievable breakdown of the marriage. More than a prima facie case is made out against the husband as regards the harassment and cruelty.”
 
 With this observation, the high court on November 30, 2017, asked the husband to come to India and take steps to dissolve the marriage. “The husband should not sit fine in the United States and ruin the life of an innocent young girl,” the judge said. “If the husband honours the directions of the court, then it is well and good. Otherwise, appropriate steps shall be taken in accordance with law including the issuance of the red corner notice and steps for deportation.”
 
 By the next hearing, held on January 23, the husband sent a divorce decree obtained from a superior court from Maricopa County, Arizona, which he had already obtained in March 2015. He even sent a money order of Rs 15 lakh, which was handed over to his wife in the courtoom.
 
 In a similar case, the high court in December 2017 ordered the police to initiate the process to bring Hitesh Soni back from the US. He is wanted in a case of domestic violence filed by his wife Sejalben in Mehsana. The court was livid that Soni does not pay a penny for maintenance to his wife and child. The high court directed the cops to obtain an arrest warrant against him, get him proclaimed as an absconder, and bring him to India to face trial.
 
 In September 2017, the high court ordered the authorities to issue a red corner notice against Jinal Patel from California on a petition filed by his wife Volga Patel from Mansa town in Gandhinagar district. Volga sued her husband when she became aware that he was already married to a girl from Anand district. 
 
 A woman from Vatva, Rutva Pandya has filed a petition demanding a red corner notice to be issued against her husband, Ronak, who has disappeared in the UK and is dodging a criminal trial pertaining to marital discord.
 
 
