PUNE: In a bid to promote the objectives of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan launched on October 2, 2014, the central government has launched the Swachh Bharat Summer   - 2018 aiming at enrolling students for promoting swachhata (cleanliness) in villages, states a circular issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development ( ).

 
 The University Grants Commission ( ) through a letter issued late last month qualified this internship as being eligible for two academic credits like an optional paper.
 
 
 Under this, the students are invited to select a village of their choice, and work with the village community for building a lasting system for improving the overall   and hygiene in the village. It is expected that each student would devote at least 100 hours to swachhata, and carry out specific measures for improving the sanitation and hygiene in the village.
 
 
 This internship is being jointly launched by the Ministry of Human Resource Development in association with the Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation and is named 'Swachh Bharat Summer Internship - 100 Hours of Swachhata'. The objective is to engage youth across the country, develop their skill and orientation for sanitation related work and make Swachh Bharat Mission a Jan Andolan, states the release.
 
 
 The student enrolled for the internship is expected to adopt one or more villages and conduct activities of their choice to contribute to the cause of rural sanitation in India. The duration would be atleast 100 hours and the period is the month of May to July during the summer vacation.
 
 
 Youth enrolled in Colleges / Universities have to apply through an online application form made available on the website https://sbsi.mygov.in. These organisations are henceforth referred to as the "parent institution". The ministry stated that the students need to indicate the location of internship (village/district) and this may either be home state or the state of the parent institution which has to be cleared by the HRD.
 
 
 The notice further states that the candidates could participate individually or in teams and the team size may be decided depending on the nature and scope of their activity, and approved by the parent institution, subject to a maximum limit of 10 members in a team. On completion of the summer internship, the best 3 interns/teams of interns would be awarded at college level and their names would be forwarded for eligible awards at University level/State and National level.
 
