PUNE: It’s that time of the year again. A festive mood descended upon Pune on Sunday, which was the last day of 2017, as its citizens geared up to usher in 2018.

 While youngsters decided to party at pubs and restaurants to ring in the New Year, older citizens enjoyed themselves at the more intimate setting of their homes, with friends and family. 
 
 A number of clubs, hotels and farmhouses also hosted events to mark the beginning of a brand new year.
 
 
  
 
 Restauranter Chinmay Ingle (22) said: “My New Year’s party will start only after 2am, as I will be working through the night. The past few days have been maddening as we prepared for New Year’s Eve. In all likelihood, I will enjoy a quiet party with my group of friends.”
 
 The city police have deployed personnel at important locations to avert any untoward incidents and traffic snarls. 
 
 “I am from Pune, but this is the time when I visit my family and friends. As I am based in Bengaluru, it is an annual ritual for me to come home for Christmas and New Year’s Eve. It is a joyous time, celebrating special days with close ones,” said  , a 23-year-old who works as a civil engineer.
 
 Roads leading to part upscale hotspots like Koregaon Park, Mundhwa and   witnessed a rush in the evening, with the lion’s share of the party scene concentrated in these areas.
 
 Not everyone is keen to let their hair down at a pub or club. “With clubs and bars seeking high cover charges, it is very difficult to find a decent place to party and spend time with friends. So I would rather stay at home and have an elaborate feast with friends and family,” said Kashmira Zagade, a 22-year-old medical student. 
 
 Nilesh P Kolapkar, the director of Baner restaurant Post 91, said the place was full by 8.45pm on Sunday. “This year, people wanted to enjoy a quiet New Year’s Eve with friends and family over a lavish dinner and drinks, rather than indulging in too much partying,” he said.
 
 All roads lead to FC Road
 
 Fergusson College Road was anything but quiet, with energetic youngsters making a beeline there for some boisterous, year-end celebrations. The youngsters cheered themselves hoarse and blew on loud horns to signal the dusk of 2017. People were seen roaming with balloons and clicking many selfies.
 
 “The fun has just begun and we intend to stay in frolic mode till the wee hours,” said  , a 22 year college student
 
 
