NEW DELHI: The   called by traders on Wednesday to protest the ongoing   was largely successful, though many markets opened in the evening. This was the fourth   in the past three months, and the traders have threatened now to stop paying   if the closing down of business establishments by the Supreme Court-empowered monitoring committee does not cease.

 Shutters were downed in Karol Bagh, Gaffar Market, Chawri Bazar, Ajmal Khan Road, Azad Market, Fatehpuri, Hauz Khas, South Extension, Defence Colony, Greater Kailash and Kotla, while almost 80% of the shops in Old Delhi remained closed. Khan Market and parts of Connaught Place, however, defied the bandh call. 
  
  
 With the markets shutting for the day, the major unions, Confederation of All India Traders and Chamber of Trade and Industries, and market associations jointly held a rally at Ramlila Maidan. CAIT had five demands from the central and state governments, which were unanimously adopted as resolutions by the assembly. These included due legal process before sealing a shop, ordinance by the central government on a moratorium on sealing, Delhi government passing a bill on relief to traders and forwarding it to the centre, an amnesty from unpaid dues, and the notification of 351 roads for mixed and commercial use.
 
 “We want December 31, 2017 to be treated as the cut-off date for regularising business establishment on ‘as is, where is’ basis,” CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal announced. Saying that trade in Delhi had declined around 40% due to sealing, Khandelwal added, “The multiplicity of authorities has hampered coordination and resulted in all three master plans for Delhi since 1962 failing miserably. The government has failed to develop sufficient commercial space in proportion to population growth.”
 
 Brajesh Goyal, convenor of CTI, claimed that never in history had Delhi seen four market closures in three months. “This shows how difficult it has become for traders to do business, but nothing has been done to resolve the matter or to deseal 4,000 shops,” he said.
 
 At its peak, the rally saw 8,000 traders and their employees in attendance. But an hour into the event, almost half the restive crowd began leaving. Lajpat Rai Sikka, who heads the Amar Colony market association, grumbled, “Traders have organised many bandhs and rallies, with little impact. No one will listen to us unless all seven lakh of us descend on the streets and choke life. The matter would then be resolved in two days.” Vikas Khanna, who has a shop in Lajpat Nagar, was as belligerent when he said, “If farmers in Mumbai can force the government’s hand with a massive march, so can we.”
 
 CAIT claimed that Wednesday’s bandh caused business losses of up to Rs 1,800 crore and revenue loss of around Rs 250 crore for the government, besides the working hours of over 20 lakh people going waste. A Vyapari Maha Panchayat will now be organised in Amar Colony market, ground zero of the biggest sealing action so far, where all major market associations will gather to chart out a strategy.
 
 Vijay Kumar, head of the South Extension market association, said, “We are not against the removal of encroachments. Our demand is related to conversion of residential properties. The Union urban development ministry should notify the amendments made to Master Plan Delhi 2021 or at least do what they can under their jurisdiction instead of making political statements."
 
 
