LUDHIANA: While lobbying among leaders has started for the  , city residents have also started discussion on Whatsapp groups over the mayor’s selection. The celebrations of Congress victory in the MC elections continued on Wednesday, and on Thursday, the MLAs will visit Chandigarh where the next programme will be decided. There are chances of oath-taking ceremony in a day or two, but it is not sure whether the mayor will be announced the same day. However, MLA Bharat Bhushan   is learnt to have denied that his wife   would be among the candidates for either mayor, senior deputy mayor, or deputy mayor. 
 
 A debate is going on between city residents as well on social media and various Whatsapp groups regarding the qualities of a mayor, and who should be given a chance among the front-runners whose names are doing the rounds. The names of senior Congress leaders Balkar Singh, Gurpreet Gogi, and Mamta Ashu are leading in the discussion. 
  
 Residents are demanding a dedicated, educated, and smart mayor for the city. A businessman and resident of Sarabha Nagar, Rahul Verma, said Ludhiana needed an educated mayor with a vision for the city. Verma said though the decision would be taken by the Congress CM, they should also consider the qualities of the candidates before giving them the opportunity. Another resident of  , architect Sanjay Goel said: “Ludhiana is among the smart cities, so it should get a smart mayor with new and unique ideas for the betterment of the industrial town.” 
  
 However, Ashu said the CM would take a call on the issue, and in the next few days, the picture would get clearer. Regarding probable candidates, he said senior leaders were in the race, but denied his wife being in the race for any post in the new MC house. Mamta has herself said she is not in the race. 
  
 Meanwhile, MC has started arrangements for the oath-taking ceremony, as the meeting hall has already been given a new look with fresh paint, and there is a change in the existing seating arrangements, because the number of councillors has increased from 75 to 95. MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they had made all arrangements for the oath-taking ceremony, and were ready whenever the government decides the date. 
  
  
