CHENNAI: As India gets set to host the eighth Theatre Olympics - the largest international theatre festival - for the first time, the Tamil Isai Sangam and   in Chennai will open out to 10 performances from around the world. 

 The Theatre Olympics, established in 1993 in Delphi, Greece, brings together theatre practitioners from around the world, the theme for this edition of the 'Natya Mahakumbh' being 'flag of friendship'. Organised by the National School of Drama under the aegis of Union Ministry of Culture, and in collaboration with the Department of Art and Culture, Government of Tamil Nadu, the plays in the city will be staged from February 18 to 27.
 
 "For the past 3 years we had the dream to bring Theatre Olympics to India. And it has finally come true," said Waman Kendre, Director, NSD.
 
 "Among the plays slotted for the Chennai leg are folk production Raja Risalu by Pt   Sharma, KN Panikkar's Kalivesham and the Italian Ticina by Simona Di Maio E," said Shantanu Bose, Dean Academics, National School of Drama, New Delhi at a press conference on Thursday. 
 
 "The idea is to bring in a mix of contemporary and traditional plays. In terms of folk theatre, we want to bring in plays that are not part of the traditional repertoire of the host city. So Chennai will see a maach performance from   and a gavari dance drama from  ," he added. Other plays to be staged in Chennai include Shakespeare's Nataka Prakarana by Manish Mitra and  's Goodbye Forever.
 
 The 51-day long countrywide theatre fest, which will be inaugurated in New Delhi on February 17, will span 17 Indian cities hosting 450 shows, 600 ambience performances, and 250 youth forum shows, and with the participation of over 25,000 artists from across the globe.
 
 "Art has been the earliest form of communication. The Theatre Olympics attempts to bridge the borders across countries through the call of theatre and engage in creating a global village," said Arjun Deo Charan, acting chairman of NSD Society.
 
 Apart from the stage productions, activities like seminars, symposia, workshops and masterclasses are scheduled to take place. Earlier editions of the Theatre Olympics were held in Japan, Russia, Turkey, South Korea, China, and Poland.
 
 All performances are free for watch.
 
 
