BENGALURU: For tens of thousands of Bengalureans for whom tap water is still a pipe dream and bubble tops far too expensive, roadside water dispensers have proven to be a lifeline, especially in summer. With groundwater depleting in many parts of the city, these dispensers — popularly known as water ATMs — are drawing a larger clientele.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Most belong to economically weaker sections, but the kiosks are proving to be a win-win. For one the water is safe to drink and for another 20 litres of potable water costs only Rs 5 compared to Rs 50 or Rs 80 retailers charge for a bubble top.
 
 These ATMs were first conceived in 2013 and began mushrooming across the city over the next couple of years. Most of the ATMs are funded by MLAs and corporates or local businesses. The dispensers, which have a reverse osmosis purifier in place, are certified by civic agencies. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 All a customer has to do is slot a Rs 5 coin into the machine and she can collect 20 litres of water. The ATMs are open between 7am and 7pm every day.
 
 “This is a blessing,” says S Sebastian, a resident of  , who has stopped buying water from private suppliers after a dispenser was set up near his home. He says the long queues outside these ATMs are no deterrent.
 
 Many MLAs who took the initiative to set up water ATMs are hoping that it would help them draw votes in the assembly elections. MLAs in constituencies like Mahadevapura,   and BTM Layout have set up such ATMs in almost every ward. Some legislators have used their area development funds to set up these dispensers, while others have roped in private firms like Tata Trust, Huawei and Anheuser-Busch InBev to instal the facility under   funds.
 
 Mahadevapura legislator Aravind Limbavalli recently said that the scheme has benefited thousands of people. “I mostly set up these water kiosks in areas which don’t have piped water supply with the help of private firms,” he said. “They are a big draw with residents.”
 
 Suresh Kumar, a resident of Akkithimanahalli in Shantinagar said: “I cannot afford to buy a water purifier at home, but the water   has come as a big relief as the water is safe for consumption. In fact, we do not know how safe and reliable the water that is supplied by private distributors is. This scheme should be extended across the city.” 
 
 
  
  
 
