AMRITSAR: Officiating president of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD)   has recommended cancellation of nomination papers of non-baptized members to prevent them from both contesting and voting to elect the Sikh body’s new president, vice-president and secretary. The CKD elections are to be held on March 25.

 While talking to newspersons ahead of releasing the CKD’s vision paper on Wednesday, Dhanraj admitted that a few opposition members contesting for the top posts were non-baptized. However, he didn’t give their names.
 
 “I will recommend to the observers to cancel nomination papers of all the non-baptized members and also divest them of the voting right,” said the officiating president, who is also contesting for the post of president of the 115-year-old Sikh charitable institution. Dhanraj claimed none of the members of their group was non-baptized.
 
 He also accused former president of CKD   of inducting several non-baptized members in the organization. Claiming that he didn’t know the number of non-baptized Sikhs among the 500 CKD members, Dhanraj said, “If voted to power, I will get an inquiry conducted into such members and take appropriate action, including their expulsion from the CKD.”
 
 He also clarified that the CKD members who were in jail in the case of abetment of suicide to  , son of former CKD chief Chadha, wouldn’t be allowed to cast their votes.
 
 Dhanraj also blamed Chadha for openly helping another presidential candidate Santokh Singh, which, he said, was in stark violation of the Akal Takht directives. “Chadha is helping Santokh Singh openly and is sending messages on social media seeking support for him,” alleged the officiating president.
 
 When contacted, Chadha denied the allegations levelled by Dhanraj. He said, “I am fully abiding by the Akal Takht directives.” Chadha said Santokh was gaining strength so Dhanraj’s group was attempting to sabotage his winning prospects.
 
 CKD member advocate   said their vision included making the organization a transparent charitable institution in real terms. “We have done away with the contract system in the sales of books and very soon the same is being done for the uniforms which will directly benefit thousands of parents,” he said.
 
 
