COIMBATORE: With complete immunity provided by the deceitful politicians and officials, bars attached to   outlets in the city are functioning illegally depriving the state government of the revenue generated in crores from there. 

 While a group of youngsters sat to have a drink at a Tasmac bar near GV Residency at Peelamedu around 2pm on Tuesday, a few men stood as security guards to alert and save them in the case of a raid. Not far from there, another bar near   was functioning illegally. Some bars near   depot had set up CCTV cameras to alert themselves in case of action from officials. 
 
 More than 150 bars attached to the Tasmac shops in the city have been functioning illegally attracting hundreds of customers every day. The license for these bars had expired in December 2017. The bar owners take contracts for the shops for a particular period ranging from six months to a year and have to pay a deposit amount to the government. They also have to pay monthly charges for running the bars as quoted by them in their tender documents. Currently, the bar owners are not paying this amount to the government and pocket all profits. Activists say that the bar owners have formed a syndicate with officials and politicians and are not bidding for the tenders.
 
 According to senior regional manager (Coimbatore) of Tasmac Venkatachalam, there were 25 bars in south zone and 64 in the north. “We have sealed and closed most of them and we continue to conduct inspections and shut bars based on complaints,” he said.
 
 DMK MLA N   had petitioned district collector T N Hariharan urging to close all these illegal bars. He said there are more than 237 Tasmac shops in Coimbatore and many had bars attached to them. “Each shop generates Rs 50,000 to Rs 2.5 lakh per day as revenue. The revenue generated fills pockets of political parties and influential people who run these illegal bars,” said Karthik.
 
 One official who did not want to be named told TOI that even officials were hand-in-glove in this illegal activity. “Every time we get a complaint and decide to go to a bar to seal it, bar owners are informed and they shut it down. Sometimes, they abuse us and even throw chilli powder on us,” said an official. 
 
 But we have formed special teams for this purpose, said the official. The official also faced a different kind of problem in sealing some bars. “Many shops and bars have the same entrance. So it is difficult to seal or close them down. Once we leave, they open it again,” said an official.
 
 Manoj Arun of an anti-corruption movement said none of the bar owners took part in the tender process as the offset price was increased in December. So, the government was forced to shut all the bars. “But all the bars are running illegally. Also, several other illegal bars are located in the city in the guise of bakery or other shops. On Tuesday, I visited bars at G V Residency, Sowripalayam and Nanjundapuram. All of them are functioning and the money goes to the politicians who run them,” Manoj alleged. This is a total revenue loss for the government and a complete nuisance for the public, he added.
 
 The Tasmac managers said they have conducted inspections and sent the reports to the district collector, deputy commissioner, excise department, city police commissioner and superintendent of police. 
 
 
