KOCHI: When Kochi   gets commissioned in April 2019, another 76 more ferry boats will begin operations in the Vembanad Lake leading to an increased movement of water traffic in the backwaters surrounding the city. And, marine experts cite the need to put in place a well-defined plan for ensuring safe movement of various vessels by the time Water Metro becomes operational.

 Ferries, tourist boats, fishing vessels, country boats, port and harbour crafts, cargo vessels, oil tankers, recreation speed boats and navy’s vessels criss-cross the shipping channel and backwaters.
 
 
 “Kochi has a unique status in the maritime port world. The introduction of large fleet of 76 boats will create chaos in the backwaters. The authorities involved will have to consider the various aspects of revamping harbour rules as well as other norms regulating movement of vessels in the backwaters,” said  , associate professor, ship technology, Cusat.
 
 The Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI), state water transport department (SWTD), Kerala shipping and inland navigation corporation (KSINC), Kochi corporation,   (CPT), ports department, Indian Navy, Coast Guard, fisheries department, irrigation department are major agencies involved in regulating movement of different vessels through the shipping channel, backwaters and canals. Apart from these the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and the Goshree Island Development Authority (GIDA) also have a significant role.
 
 The SWTD operates a fleet of 53 boats in the Greater Cochin area, and the department has also announced their plan to replace their old ferries with faster and modern vessels by August 2018. The SWTD will introduce 19 vessels, which will adhere to safety norms fixed by the   (IRS). The corporation will soon launch the Ro-Ro services between Fort Kochi and Vypeen. KSINC operates boat Fort Queen for the corporation.
 
 According to the study on inland water transportation in Kochi city published by the Centre for Public Policy Research, though Kochi has over 1,100km of waterways available, only 40km of it is considered as navigable for motor boats. The study said proper roles of various agencies in this sector must be identified and ‘make them responsible for the delivery of these duties through necessary administrative and legislative measures and reforms, wherever needed to facilitate greater cooperation’ among them.
 
 Many private boats operate from the jetties along the   tourists. These ferries and recreational services like speed boats also operate in the same waters.
 
 Citing the boat tragedy that took place off the shore at Fort Kochi in 2015, former mayor K J Sohan pointed out the need for an effective plan for rescue operations during emergency. “The crew operating ferries should have sufficient training and know-how about the technological aspects. A standard operating procedure should be brought into effect. Timely inspection and fitness testing of vessels should be done. Old and worn out boats should be withdrawn from service. Technological developments like GPS systems should be used to detect the presence of nearby vessels,” he said.
 
