The   (CCMC) has charted out a Rs 20-crore project to give a makeover to the   park mini-zoo by merging it with the VOC park and adding several other amenities.

 “Only after the facelift is given to the zoo, will we obtain a licence from the Central   Authorities (CZA),” said a corporation official. It has been more than a year since the licence of the zoo expired and it has been functioning without one since then.
 
 Merged under the smart city project, the revised proposal was sent to the state government on Tuesday and the corporation is waiting for its nod. The official said that once the project got administrative sanction, they would soon finalise a consultant to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the revamp.
 
 Explaining that the master plan was already submitted to the CZA, the official said they are planning to execute it in a design, build and operate model by giving all the three tasks to a single consultant.
 
 The master layout plan is a detailed landscape map of the existing zoo site detailing the existing facilities and infrastructure, and the location of the proposed developmental activities, including animal display area, conservation breeding area and visitor circulation routes. 
 
 “The consultant will have to co-ordinate and revamp the zoo as per central government norms so that the licence could be obtained,” the official added.
 
 Explaining that the masterplan was submitted based on the guidelines on CZA, E Senthilnathan, director of the zoo, said they are planning to include new species of reptiles like chameleon, besides an aquarium, in the zoo. There is a plan to introduce battery cars too.
 
 “The zoo will be expanded to over 9.5 acres after merging it with the park area that is adjacent to the zoo,” he said, adding that they are yet to receive the CZA approval. As soon as we get the approval, we would start the remaining work, he added.
 
 The zoo authorities had released the rescued snakes and other reptiles in the forest and migrant birds in the lake about six months ago, said the zoo authorities.
 
 In 2016, the civic body spent about Rs 1 crore to set up water pipelines and to repair enclosures in the zoo.
 
 
