KOCHI: The home department suspended superintendent of police A V  , under probe in connection with the Varapuzha custodial death case, from service on Friday.

 George was the rural SP (Ernakulam) when members of his now-disbanded   picked up Sreejith S R, from his residence in Varapuzha on April 6. He died while in police custody on April 9.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “The (suspension) action has been taken based on a report submitted by the special investigation team against the former rural SP,” a source in the office of the state police chief said.
 
 A department-level probe, too, has been initiated against him.
 
 The suspension came 31 days after the death of Sreejith. George was on April 21 transferred out of law and order and was given charge as SP (training) at the Kerala Police Academy.
 
 Sources said George was suspended for ‘lapses’ in investigation. The formation of the Rural Tiger Force, a special squad working without the permission of the state police chief, also worked against him.
 
 Besides, the officer has been facing criticism over a complainant’s statement in the original case in which Sreejith was arrested and later tortured. The statement over the attack on the house of Vasudevan of   on April 6 had surfaced soon after the death of Sreejith and it had the names of Sreejith and his brother in it.
 
 However, Vineesh, son of Vasudevan, on whose name the statement was recorded, had denied making such a statement. The family of Sreejith also issued a statement, stating it was the original which did not mention the deceased youth. Though the rural SP had told the SIT that he was unaware of the origin of the fake statement as it was not included in the case files, the SIT has been probing this aspect as well. The SIT had questioned the SP for over three hours on Wednesday.
 
 An SIT officer refused to divulge the contents of the report field to the state police chief. “Details can be divulged only by the police chief,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, SIT head IG S Sreejith said four other officers arraigned as accused in the case on Thursday would be arrested only if necessary.
 
 “The accused policemen are booked for bailable offences. It is not mandatory to make their arrests and such an action would be taken only if a necessity arises,” he said.
 
 The four men arraigned on Thursday were also also attached to the Varappuzha police station. The accused policemen were ASI Jayanandan, ASI Santosh Baby, civil police officers Sunil Kumar and Sreeraj. The total number of accused in this case is now nine, who included the former Varapuzha SI Deepak GS and former North Paravur CI Crispin Sam.
 
