SHAHJAHANPUR: She was 16 years old when Asaram violated her in his Jodhpur ashram. Scared and confused, she first kept quiet before deciding to fight, against odds that would have terrorised many into silence. “They killed witnesses, disrupted my education, hounded my family but I knew what I had to do,” said the girl whose battle led to Asaram’s downfall.

 
 “Someone else committed the crime, but I was the one under virtual house arrest for five years,” the girl, who will turn turn 21 this July, told TOI on Wednesday, moments after she heard that Asaram had been found guilty of raping her in 2013.
 
 "I couldn’t go out without looking over my shoulder to see if anyone was following me. Sometimes some people would drive past me and either swear at me in the filthiest of words or send out a casual threat. Every day was a nightmare," the survivor said.
 
 Both relief and anger spreading across his face, her father added: “Even if we die now, we will be satisfied that we managed to get justice for our daughter. The sentencing of Asaram will create fear in the minds of rapists. I am satisfied with the life imprisonment for the man. But capital punishment should be given to a few like him to scare the others and send a message to the society. That would help us in stopping rape cases in the country.”
 
 The girl, who was glued to the TV screen in her house since early morning on Wednesday, closely monitoring updates on the case, said, “Justice has been done. We were hopeful but not very confidant of the conviction as he is a very influential man with powerful connections. I am right now doing my BCom, but my mind was always stuck with the case. I can now think about my future and lead life like any other girl my age.’’
 
 However, the girl’s father feels that their struggle is not over yet. “Asaram might drag us in the case for some more years by moving the high court or  . If the media had not highlighted the case, we would have died years ago. Of course, we will fight on. After all this, one can’t just give up...,’’ said the man who runs a transport business in  .
 
 Talking about three witnesses who were killed allegedly by Asaram’s henchmen, he said, “The conviction of Asaram is homage to them... Those who were involved in the barbaric murders should be sent to jail for life...”
 
