
    got the three points that they badly needed after picking up just a point from their last three games. But with Jamshedpur FC making life difficult for the Goan franchise, particularly at the end, questions were asked about Sergio Lobera’s side at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Thursday.
 
  Jamshedpur FC coach   had a few questions too.
  
  The first, obviously, was about the ‘questionable’ penalty decision that was awarded after Jamshedpur defender   was adjudged to have fouled Brandon Fernandes. Coppell was left in no doubt that Bikey had first got a touch to the ball. Manuel Lanzarote’s second goal, he suggested, though not entirely sure, was scored from an offside position.
  
  “I hate complaining about referees but when two sides are closely matched, as we were tonight, you want the difference to be beautiful individual piece of   to score a goal. You don’t want it to be a mistake and you don’t it to be a poor refereeing decision,” Coppell told reporters after his side lost 1-2 at Fatorda.
  
  FC Goa haven’t always been at the right end of refereeing decisions, particularly when it comes to penalties. They were denied an obvious penalty against FC Pune City during their last home match – which they lost – and should have had another penalty against ATK as well.
  
  Coach Sergio Lobera wouldn’t accept his side were lucky, not when they had some good chances in the second session to kill the match as a contest rather than live on the edge till the final whistle.
  
  “We deserved a lot more than what we have got so far. When it’s a penalty its obvious and not luck; we had to take the penalty twice. For me it’s not luck,” said Lobera.
  
  The three points take FC Goa to the fourth spot, and although, for large spells, they have been the most entertaining side in this edition of ISL, Lobera is worried about his side’s repeated mistakes at the back.
  
  “I think there have been games where we have played better but didn’t win. I think today we suffered quite a bit. Today the team learnt how to suffer and how to win against a team that is hard to win against.
  
  “I am not complaining about the chances that we didn’t take. But what I would complain is the goal we conceded. We have not kept a clean sheet. We’ve conceded a lot of goals in a similar fashion. A cross and then either a header or shot for goal. The same thing happened today, despite speaking about this before the game. We must improve defensively,” said the coach.
