LUCKNOW: A day after SP chief   sought two more years to vacate his 4-Vikramaditya Marg residence while BSP supremo   got a board put up in front of her   residence declaring it as a memorial of party founder Kanshiram, BJP targeted the two leaders and termed them as 'Dharti Pakad'. 

 Not letting go the opportunity to deride the opposition on the issue, UP government spokesperson and cabinet minister   said in a tweet: "Rajnetaon ko kaha jata hai ki Dharti se prem karo...lekin Akhilesh ji and Mayawati ji ne to matlab hi galat nikal liya..,Woh dharti se prem nahi dharti pakad ho gaye hain, aur apna sarkari makan nahi chhorna chahte (Politicians are told to love their motherland. But Akhilesh ji and Mayawati ji have misunderstood it. They do not love the motherland but have become 'Dharti Pakad'. They do not want to vacate the residence allotted to them by the government)." 
 
 "If Akhilesh wishes, he can move into the biggest house in the city along with his security. There is no dearth of money for him," Singh said, while speaking to TOI. "Why can't any of the SP leaders like Ram Govind Chaudhary vacate their government accommodation for Akhilesh ji," he added. 
 
 The cabinet minister also accused Mayawati of showing deperation to hold on to the huge bungalow allotted to her by putting up a board of 'Kanshiram Ji Yadgaar Vishram Sthal' outside even though she has announced shifting to her own residence.
 
 "Who was having 'Vishram' in the so-called Vishram sthal. Only Mayawati ji was staying there. She never allowed any poor or Dalit to rest inside the premises which she is now calling as a memorial in the name of Kanshiram," he asked.
 
 Officials in the UP estate department said that the state government would take action in accordance with the   order. 
 
 Sources said that the department was taking legal opinion on Akhilesh's letter and Mayawati declaring the 13-A Mall Avenue bungalow as 'Kanshiram Ji Yadgaar Vishram Sthal'. 
 
 "The department may even initiate legal action after 15 days, the deadline for ex-CMs need to vacate government accommodation," sources in the estate department said.
 
 
