NEW DELHI: Five days after a 22-year-old BPO executive was abducted by four men and   between   City and Ballabgarh in Haryana, the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the case, has arrested two of the accused from  . The suspects are in their mid-20s.

 The arrested men have been identified as Arshad from Jamalgarh village and Sanjeev from Punhana village in Mewat. While one of them has a dairy business, the others are unemployed.
 
 The accused told cops they had come to Faridabad to get their car serviced. They had consumed alcohol and were on their way back to their village when they spotted the girl walking on the road and dragged her into their car and took turns to   her for two hours in their SUV.
 
 Raids are being conducted in Haryana and Rajasthan to nab the remaining two suspects. The Scorpio used in crime has been seized.
 
 The incident was reported at Old Thana in Faridabad on Saturday. The accused had kidnapped the woman while she was returning home from work. Her colleagues who were with her tried to raise an alarm but could not get any help.
 
 “The woman worked as a telecaller at a company and was going back home around 6.30pm when she was abducted. After the rape, she was dumped near a fuel station at the Sikri turn in Ballabgarh,” a senior cop said.
 
 The woman, who had bruises all over her body, approached the police and filed complaint after medical examination confirmed rape. An FIR under sections of abduction (363 IPC) and gangrape (376D IPC) was lodged and a probe initiated.
 
 A SIT comprising the sleuths of crime branch and police stations of sector 30, 48 and BPTP area was formed and tasked to track down the men. Footage of all cameras installed along national highway, liquor shops, service stations, dhabas and bypass road were scanned. The appearance of the suspects given by the victim was a major lead, sources said.
 
 CCTV footage from a liquor shop and a gas station revealed that the criminals had fled towards Bypass road from where they took the highway and drove towards Palwal. Based on local intelligence and technical surveillance, the accused were nabbed from Jurhera area of Rajasthan on Wednesday.
 
 
