CHANDIGARH: Ahead of the engineering admissions to be conducted under Joint Action Committee (JAC) in various engineering institutions in the city, there is still no clarity on the discontinuation of integrated BE (chemical) MBA course at Dr SS Bhatnagar   Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET), Panjab University.

 The integrated courses have been removed by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and have not received approval form the University Grants Commission ( ) as well. The matter will be tabled for discussion in the syndicate’s upcoming meeting scheduled on April 29.
 
 “The decision on whether to run the course or discontinue it will be taken by the Panjab University syndicate. The matter is already with the governing body and it will soon reveal the fate of the course,” said dean, university instruction, Prof  . UICET offers 53 seats in this integrated course.
 
 A committee constituted by the Panjab University vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover held a meeting on March 27 and decided that the duration of the integrated BE (Chemical) MBA course should be reduced to five years from the existing five and a half years. The committee was of the opinion that since the course is no longer included in the list of courses approved by the AICTE, the existing batches may be allowed to complete the course in five years, ensuring that the syllabus of the course is not reduced.
 
 Moreover, the committee also recommended that the integrated course should not be run. However, it suggested that if the department is able to get it approved from any governing/regulatory body like the UGC, the department may continue to run the course. The committee further proposed that to compensate the revenue loss due to the closure of this course, the department may revise the fee structures of other courses.
 
 On July 13, 2017, Panjab University had written to the UGC regarding the approval of the course. However, the department has not received any further communication as yet.
 
 The committee, in a communication sent to vice-chancellor Grover, requested that an urgent reminder may be sent to the UGC on the issue.
 
 Meanwhile, the committee members were of the opinion that JAC 2018-19 brochures can have the remarks: “At present, the integrated BE (chemical) MBA course is not approved by the UGC/AICTE”. The matter will be tabled in the upcoming meeting scheduled on April 29.
 
 Backgrounder | The duration of the course was increased to five and a half years from five years in the session 2013-14 because of AICTE’s mandate. Since the AICTE had disapproved integrated courses, the BE (chemical) MBA integrated course is not approved by the AICTE and UGC as well. It was in September 2015 that protests had erupted in Dr SS   UICET when the students demanded an opt-in/opt-out from the course. A committee to discuss the academic concerns of the students was then formed.
 
 
