Ramgarh: Though the people of   have development on their minds and are hoping for better amenities ahead of Monday’s civic body polls, the mood in ward 11 tells a slightly different story. 

 The newly-formed ward under Ramgarh   comprises Phulsarai, Niche Mohalla and Manua, the home of  , a meat-trader who was lynched in Ramgarh town in June last year by members of cow protection groups for allegedly carrying   in his vehicle. The Muslim-dominated Manua has a sizeable population comprising the Hindus. JVM-P chief Babulal Marandi had visited the area on Thursday.
 
 When TOI visited the locality, which has hardly seen any development in recent years, it found Independent candidate Padma Devi campaigning outside Alimuddin’s house. The local party office of   is right next to Alimuddin’s home.
 
 “JVM-P and Congress are the main contenders here. After what happened with Alimuddin last year, not a single   or Ajsu Party leader has bothered to visit Manua. BJP has no chance in this ward,” Congress volunteer Sajid Ansari said. He said JVM-P’s Raju Kumar Bedia, who is running for the post of chairman, and Congress’s Anwar Hussain, contesting for the ward councillor’s post, are from Manua. 
 
 Alimuddin’s wife Mariam Khatoon said the people of Manua will ensure that the saffron party pays for its action. “Representatives of every political party visited us in the last nine months after my husband was killed. But we have never had any BJP leader asking us how we are making our ends meet. They are in power in the state, but they have never came to see us. The people of Manua will ensure that those who sympathise with my husband’s killers are defeated.”
 
 BJP’s vice-chairman nominee Ranjit Pandey rubbished Mariam’s speculations. “The people of Ramgarh will decide what is important for them. I cannot dispute the ruling of the court, even though I believe that the decision to award life imprisonment to 11 people was hasty. Our party has sympathy for those innocent people who are languishing in jail and their families. However, the incident won’t have any impact on the municipal polls.”
 
 He added, “The opposition parties are trying to splash a political colour to an isolated incident, but they won’t succeed. The truth behind who was responsible for the death of Alimuddin will come to the fore soon. Our chairman candidate Anand Bedia has extensively campaigned at ward 11 and we see no reason why won’t win that ward.”
 
 Advocate Muneshwar Mahto said, “A group of people were involved in the   incident and the court has sentenced them for their crime. The incident will hardly have any impact on the elections. Moreover, it was a law and order issue and if anyone is to be made accountable it is the district administration.” He added, “The voters are more concerned about the development of the region, including better civic amenities. Certain people and political parties are giving the incident a religious colour, but in vain.”
 
 
