THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Saturday, the car used by killers of former   was examined by the police forensic team. Attingal DSP P Anilkumar - who is leading the investigation team - said that they had found bloodstains in the car. He added that blood dripping from the weapons, used to attack Rajesh, might have congealed on the surface of the vehicle. The attackers had apparently abandoned the red Maruti Swift car that was found at   on Friday. 

 At present, several police teams are conducting probes in different states, including Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra to track down the suspects. Investigators have reportedly received vital information about the identities of the suspects.
 
 Police had earlier managed to locate the persons from whom the assailants rented the car through mutual friends. After questioning three men, the police reached the persons who acted as the link between them and the suspects. The probe team has identified one of them, but refused to reveal his identity. The probe team, so far, has questioned over 60 persons and 15 of them were questioned about the car transaction.
 
 Rajesh was hacked to death in his sound recording studio at   under Pallickal police station limits outside the city around 2am on Tuesday. Police now believe that the motive could be related to his alleged extramarital relationship with an expatriate woman. They refused to reveal the identity of the woman.
 
 On Wednesday, investigators contacted the woman, who is based in Doha, Qatar, over the phone as part of the investigation. "She admitted that they were in a deep relationship and had plans for future," said a senior police officer, who is part of the probe team.
 
 Police said she cooperated with the inquiry and told them that their relationship had soured their family life. They met when   reached Doha as an RJ at a popular FM station there. As the relationship grew, her husband realized what was happening and soon they were separated. The relationship affected Rajesh's marital life too, she told the police. "They were pretty much open about their relationship and his wife was aware of it too," said the officer quoting the NRI woman.
 
 Rajesh was speaking to the woman over the phone when he was attacked by assailants. She heard his screams from the other end of line and even alerted his friends, who rushed to the spot to save their friend.
 
 
