NOIDA: The   will now start imposing a penalty of Rs 5,000 on anyone found using a   bag of 40 micron or below thickness, two years after the high court gave directions to ban sale of polythene. Repeat offenders will have to deal with stricter fines or even be banned from conducting any commercial business, officials said. The Authority will start imposing the fine after seven days.

 On November 18, 2015, the   had directed the state government to issue a notification banning the sale of polythene in the state by December 31, 2015, in view of its negative impact on people’s health and environment. The ban prohibits manufacture, import, purchase and storage of all kinds of polythene carrybags. No shopkeeper, wholesaler or retailer is to use, store or purchase plastic bags.
 
 Following the directions, the Noida Authority had on December 14, 2015, approved a draft, ‘New Okhla industrial development authority (NOIDA) non biodegradable garbage/polythene control byelaws-2015’. However, even after two years, this draft is still awaiting a gazette notification.
 
 R K Mishra, additional CEO, Noida Authority, told TOI that they strictly enforce the ban in compliance with the high court’s directions. 
 
 “We have directed the market associations to use cloth bags. We have held detailed discussions with the representatives of several market associations in Noida and sensitised them about the need to ban it. We will impose fine on those who violate the rule after a week,” he said.
 
 When asked on how the implementation and enforcement will be successful, Mishra said they would undertake awareness campaigns, drives and training of the staff. “Our main concerns are the open markets and small vendors,” the ACEO said. “We will hold streetplays and educative campaigns to inform the public about the adverse impact by the use of polythene on health and environment,” he said.
 
 “We will also rope in pollution control officials and district administration to support the ban and help in its implementation. Police officials will also be sensitised about the need to put a curb on it,” he added. 
 
 “We will provide the manpower for enforcement and issue challans. Training for health contractors will also be provided on the segregation and disposal of polythene,” Mishra said.
 
 
