Gone are the days of the ‘saas’ playing the quintessential vamp on our daily soaps. Recent times have witnessed a new set of badass girls, who are young, independent and strong-headed. We bring you some of these ‘mean women’, who are flooded with hate messages even as they play pivotal roles on their shows. Read on...

 
 
 While all the characters on this show are high on fashion, Reyhna pushes it further with her look. Tactful and flamboyant, she is manipulative and also adds to the glamour quotient of the show. She wants power, money and passion, and will do anything to achieve her goals. Reyhna says, “It’s not just about playing a vamp, it’s about playing a sexy vamp, who knows everything about beauty and style. It is tough, but I enjoy being the vamp of the Ishqbaaaz series.”
 
 
 
 The actress plays a double role on the suspense thriller — that of a good girl and a psychopath. Alisha Panwar plays a psychotic wife (Tara Deep Raichand), who is blessed with the most devoted husband (Deep Raichand, played by  ). When she goes on murdering people, he defends her by getting her lookalike ( ) arrested. Alisha says, “It is not easy to essay a double role when one of them is a killer. My make-up has been inspired by  .”
 
 
 
 n Bored of playing the damsel in distress, Vidhi Pandya, the second female lead of the show, turned vamp. Inspired by Supriya Pathak’s character in Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela,Vidhi effortlessly plays  , who walks around with a chabook in her hand. The spunky actress says, “I was getting headaches because of constantly putting glycerine in my eyes and crying. I am happy to play a cunning, selfish and manipulative woman now. She has many shades.”
 
 
 
 n As male lead Uma Shankar’s (Avinesh Rekhi) Maasi sa, Sadiya Siddiqui's character has grown from mean to meaner over the past few months. She not only portrays an authoritative image, but from someone who was always draped in sarees with the pallu covering her head, she has transformed into a modern, glamorous vamp in a swimsuit. She manipulates her nephew and creates troubles for his wife. Sadiya says, “From plotting and scheming to murder people to torturing them, I have done everything on the show.” 
 
 
 
 n The show has seen it all, but never ceases to amaze viewers with its capacity to turn positive characters into negative ones. Move over Anita Hassanandani and  , who played vicious vamps on the show; currently, it is all about   aka Shireen Mirza, who has turned from a cribbing yet loving sister of Raman (Karan Patel) to someone who is ready to kill her brother for revenge. The actress, who has been part of the show for four years, did not have a prominent role till now, but is happy with her current track. Shireen says, “For the first time, people have come to know who Simmi bua actually is. Initially, I wasn’t confident that I would be able to pull this role through, but after seeing the number of hate mails that I receive every day, I guess that I have done it.”
 
 
 
 n After her show went for a time leap, Manasi replaced Ridhi Dogra’s character to play a modern girl, who is also a successful businesswoman. Nisha is a sadist, who can’t see anyone happy and she creates havoc in people’s lives. The actress, who is playing a vamp for the first time, is also drawing a lot of attention for her stylish appearance on the show. She says, “Rather than play a sari-clad bahu, it’s better to look glam, wear a red lipstick and make life miserable for others.”
 
 
 
 The actress seems to have struck a chord with the audience with her portrayal of Sudha on Rishton… She plays a woman who seeks revenge from her former husband, who threw her out because of her vicious ways. Sangeeta’s look on the show — she drapes her saree the Bengali way — has been appreciated. The actress says, “I play a damsel in distress who turned vicious after she could not be rescued. This role is special because I am playing a vamp for the first time.” 
 
 
