Nagpur: The second capital of Maharashtra has finally come on the ‘liver transplant’ map of the country, thus becoming fourth city in the state after Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad to have the advanced facility. New Era Hospital and Research Institute (NEHRI) in Lakadganj has become the first liver transplant hospital in the city while about three other hospitals are trying for the state government’s permission. The hospital already has a waiting list and is waiting for first donor or cadaver liver to do the transplant. This facility in the city will not just save local patients from going to metros for the transplant but also save them of the huge expenses (Rs32-40 lakh) as the city hospital claims to be charging only Rs20 lakh. Of course, this doesn’t include the cost of immuno-suppressants that patients need to take lifelong. Dr Anand Sancheti, one of the hospital directors, said that the hospital has all infrastructural requirements for conducting the challenging surgery. “The hospital will have Dr Rahul Saxena as a full-time liver surgeon. We have also created rooms with positive pressure to prevent patients from getting any outside air into the room to prevent infections.” Dr Nilesh Agrawal, another director, added that the hospital has spent about Rs75lakh to Rs1 crore in creating the set up with special ICU. Ours is a NABH accredited hospital. “If all goes well, we may also start heart transplants in 3-5 months,” he said. Dr Nidheesh Mishra, hospital director, said that the hospital had a daily OPD of 30-40 patients with liver problems and of these almost 50% have serious problems requiring transplant. “Country needs about 30,000 liver transplants annually, but only about 800-1,000 transplants happen actually,” he said. Dr Ravi Wankhede, secretary of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee and also head of Mohan Foundation in the city, said that getting a liver transplant centre in the city was a much-awaited step. “Since city didn’t have the facility, we had to give the livers to other cities. Now we will be able to utilize all the livers in city itself,” he said. Dr Saxena, who has an experience of about 1,000 transplants and has been trained in Seoul and Minnesota University of the US, says liver transplant surgery is more challenging than kidney transplant. Liver is a huge organ weighing 1.5 to 2kg, much bigger than kidney. But the chances of rejection of the organ (liver) are much less. “It is the only organ in the body which regenerates within a few weeks of transplant. It can be transplanted both from a live donor or a brain-dead person,” he said. The transplant team besides Dr Saxena includes Dr Vijendra Kirnake, gastroenterologist, Dr Rahul Rai, hematologist and Dr Amol Kokas, intensivist.