CHENNAI: All through the month of April, the Writer’s Cafe in Chennai offers diners scrumptious vejetarien and non-vejetarian fare — grild chkein, grik caled, and flammenkuchen, for starters.

 
 The unusual offerings are courtesy the Madras Dyslexia Association ( ), which has taken over the menus at the restaurant, as part of an awareness campaign show how a person with dyslexia views the world, and how difficult it is for them to “navigate in a world that does not comprehend them”. 
  
 
 
 “A person with dyslexia struggles to read and identify letter sounds during their everyday life, but there seldom is any empathy from the general public, which makes the struggle far more taxing for them. That’s the reasoning behind ‘Dyslexia Cafe’,” says MDA president D  .
 
 For the one-month period, the menu cards at the Café have been reworked to have alphabets in reverse – which is one of the challenges faced by persons with dyslexia, explains Chandrasekhar. He adds that there will be specialists stationed at the Café for two hours every day for those who wish to consult experts about dyslexia. 
  
 
 Book readings and puppet shows will be organised at the Café, and customers will be given bookmarks with notes on dyslexia along with the bill, while LED screens would be set up to display information on the condition.
 
 “Dyslexia is not just a learning problem; it is lifelong. When people understand what dyslexia is, they will understand their situation better. Dyslexic people have a lot of positives – they are ‘differently intelligent’. These positives are, however, overlooked in the face of a few negatives. If people empathise and understand how trivial these are, then focus will be on their skills,” says Chandrasekhar, adding that the menus will launch on April 7.
 
 Restaurateur M Mahadevan of the Writer’s Café says he plans to continue the awareness campaign longer than a month, at a new branch of the restaurant which will open later this month at Tidel Park as well as at both branches in December. “We have also started training as well as recruiting people with disabilities at several places in the city,” says Mahadevan, adding that while several students of the   (Spastn) have been placed as service staff at his restaurants, others have been hired at bookstore Higginbothams. “Some of the Spastn students have also got together and started a pizza restaurant in  ,” he adds.
 
