CHANDIGARH: Facing a large number of litigations from   summiteers, who have demanded appointment on DSP's post in Haryana Police in parity with mountaineer  , the sports and youth affairs department has suggested the state government to withdraw Sodha's appointment, saying the decision was taken "without lawful authority." 

 The proposal is pending with the chief minister's office for approval.
 
 The move has come after the recent decision of the Punjab and Haryana high court directing the state government to appoint another mountaineer Sunita Choken on DSP's post in Haryana Police at par with Sodha.
 
 Sources said Haryana sports and youth affairs minister Anil Vij has also approved department's proposal holding that the "illegality in the appointment of Mamta Sodha cannot be continued in perpetuity under the garb of equality."
 
 In its proposal sent to the chief minister's office (CMO), Vij has also requested the CM to decide the main file pending before the CMO since January 24, 2018 for re-consideration of policy regarding jobs to mountaineers climbing Mount Everest.
 
 Confirming the development, Vij told TOI that there is no question of giving appointment to any mountaineer on DSP's post in the state and they would not hesitate to withdraw "illegally made appointment" of Mamta Sodha on DSP's post, if needed.
 
 Sodha was appointed a DSP by the then   government in August 2010 as a special case. There was no policy in the state to give jobs to mountaineers and she was appointed on basis of the CM's "announcement."
 
 Taking her case as a precedent, several summiteers had demanded appointment on DSP's post. Even three other summiteers Raju Sandhu, Jasbir Singh and Ram Lal were also appointed as sub-inspectors in the police on court's intervention. However, to remove ambiguity and to avoid plethora of litigations, the sports department in January this year had sent a proposal to the CM for withdrawal of benefits of jobs given to Sodha and others made in the police department.
 
 Terming these appointments as decided without any policy, Ashok Khemka, the principal secretary of the sports department, had written that an illegality cannot be rendered legal because it was CM's announcement. "The constitution is supreme and is not overruled by an announcement of the CM," Khemka had mentioned in the proposal sent to CM for approval on January 1, 2018.
 
 
