MUMBAI: The Islamic holy month of   will begin in Mumbai Friday, uniting Muslims as they fast from dawn to dusk in sabr (forbearance) and shukr (thanksgiving). Every prayer mat in the mosque is occupied through the month leading up to the festival of Eid ul' Fitr.

 
 At   or the eve of Ramzan Thursday, the serialised Taraweeh prayer will begin in several mosques. "Each night, the congregation gathers to offer 20 rakat namaz where the Imam recites the Holy Quran in instalments spanning 1.5 'paras' (divisions). The recitation is completed at Shab E' Qadr on the 27th roza," said Maulana Sayed Mohammad Ikramul Haque Qadri Misbahi who leads Taraweeh at the Darul Uloom Mehboob E' Subhani in Kurla.
 
 The maulana reminds the faithful that Ramzan is not merely about forgoing food or abstaining from permitted pleasures. "The roza is also of the tongue, limbs, heart and soul. The lips do not utter falsehood or abuse, the hands refrain from violence and crime, the feet do not step in the wrong direction and the heart is fixed on Allah Almighty. Ramzan instills complete self-control. It involves reining in anger and greed and empathising with underprivileged segments who struggle with hunger and deprivation on a daily basis."
 
 Meanwhile, men and women have been thronging local markets to buy imported black dates that are eaten at iftar. Small and big traders near Farooqiya Masjid, Andheri, Naupada in Bandra, Masjid Bunder and Crawford Market are displaying mounds of ajwa, kalmi, kimiya as well as the special Medjoul dates. Bateel in   has stocked ajwa that is reportedly grown in the orchards of Saudi's royal family and costs a princely sum of Rs 5,700 per kg.
 
 Merchants who deal in prayer mats, prayer beads, skull caps and itr fragrance expect to do business once the season begins, while traders who deal in garments, vermicelli, dried fruit and nuts will become busy in the final week leading up to Eid ul' Fitr.
 
 Ramzan will begin Thursday in some parts of the country including Delhi, Lucknow, Chennai and Karnataka as moon sighting was reported by local clerics.
 
