Your taste in music could reveal key insights into your personality, according to a new study.

 
 In the past, finding links between music preference and personality type has been hampered because respondents were younger and shared a narrow band of tastes.
 
 Researchers from   at the   looked at the traits shared by people with preferences for different music. They conducted worldwide, online studies of over 20,000 respondents, ‘The Telegraph’ reported.
 
 The team, led by   from Fitzwilliam College, found “open” personalities liked “sophisticated” music — defined as “inspiring, complex and dynamic” — but were less impressed with slow, mellow music.
 
 People who like easy-going, acoustic music, are more talkative and energetic, while opera fans tend to be more imaginative, they said. Those who score highly for openness like to learn new things and enjoy new experiences, researchers said.
 
 As part of their survey, participants were presented with 25 unfamiliar musical extracts over different genres. They also completed surveys to assess their personality type — including openness, extroversion, agreeableness, neuroticism and conscientiousness.
 
 In their study, published in “Psychological Science”, the researchers said, “These results corroborate that music — a form of self-expression that is ubiquitous across human cultures — communicates meaningful information about basic psychological characteristics.”
 
 More than half those surveyed were over 22, and they were presented with 25 unfamiliar musical excerpts pre-categorised by musicologists.
 
 The surveys differentiated personality types on the ‘big five’ model used by scientists for 50 years: openness, extroversion, agreeableness, neuroticism and conscientiousness. “An active measure of naturally occurring behaviour,   for musical artists, also predict individual differences in personality,” researchers said.
 
 Agreeable people tended to give all the music clips higher scores, while neurotics marked harshly. Conscientiousness was not correlated to any particular genre of music. 
 
 
 
 
 
