LUCKNOW: Two persons were killed and three critically inured when a city bus ran over them on   in the city on Thursday evening. According to police, the driver of the   bus lost control over the vehicle due to brake failure and hit a car, two cyclists and two people on a scooty. 

 Angry local residents rushed to the site after the accident and blocked traffic on busy   for over two hours. On seeing the surging mob, the bus driver fled the scene abandoning the vehicle. The residents vented their ire on the bus and damaged its window panes. They also manhandled some passengers sitting inside the bus. The angry mob reportedly also tried to set the bus on fire, but timely intervention from the police foiled their attempt. Forces from three police stations were called in to control the situation. 
 
 According to the police, around 9.15 pm, the bus (UP 32 DN 0848) coming from   crossing suddenly went out of control and hit at the stationary car parked in front of an eatery right on   crossing. It also hit two cyclists, a mother-daughter duo on a scooty and a pedestrian.
 
 
 
 
 While one cyclist—Hamid Husain Warsi (60)—died on the spot, pedestrian Shobhit (27) was rushed to Balrampur Hospital but declared brought dead. The other cyclist, Durga Prasad, and mother-daughter duo Subodhini and Gauri Pandey were critically injured and rushed to KGMU. The occupants of the car which bore maximum impact had got off the vehicle just before the accident and were safe, the police said.
 
 
 Youths near a tea shop were the first to reach the site. Before police could arrive, they had started rescue operation.
 Meanwhile, the crowd got restive and started shouting anti-police slogans. Some of them even tried to ransack nearby eateries, accusing them of allowing their customers to park on the road and narrowing down the busy Vidhan Sabha Marg, already barricaded due to Metro construction However, Kaiserbagh SHO DK Upadhyay rushed to the spot to ensure that no damage was done. 
 
 The crowd was incensed when rumours about five deaths started flying. They attempted to torch the bus, but arrival of forces salvaged the situation. ASP (East) Sarvesh Mishra said the bus’s brakes probably failed due to which it went out of control. He said Durga Prasad’s condition was critical.
 
 
