Nagpur: In a U-turn from earlier stand, Pench and Tadoba tiger reserves will also conduct 24-hour-long machan census on ‘Buddha Pournima’ day on April 30. As reported by TOI first on March 15, Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) and Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) had decided to go ahead with the exercise. However, Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) backed out as chief wildlife warden AK Misra, while issuing instructions on February 8, did not make it binding on the field directors to conduct the estimation. On Thursday, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) for wildlife Sunil Limaye had called a meeting of all field directors of tiger reserves in which the issue was discussed and he suggested to take up the exercise. “We will not call it machan census exactly but ‘nisarga anubhav’. I’m of the view that when Melghat and NNTR are doing it, why can’t Tadoba and Pench. The exercise will help us know about animal density and subsequently what measures need to be taken to develop habitat where there are issues,” Limaye said. On the apprehension by field directors that it is fire and tourism season, besides in Pench officials are on the trail of absconding tiger poachers, Limaye said, “We have decided to conduct ‘nisarga anubhav’ at select waterholes.” Misra has already made it clear that field directors can take up the exercise at their own risk and resources. “There is no National Tiger Conservation Authority protocol to do it and data is also not compiled,” he said. Wildlife lovers have hailed the decision to conduct the exercise in Pench and Tadoba. “Though waterhole census is also not fully trustworthy being an ocular estimation, it is significant way to keep up the practice of observation of wildlife over a certain period,” said wildlife conservationist Uday Patel. “No data on herbivores in a park has been ever made public after line transect method was introduced. In waterhole exercise, one can at least say there are how many animals on a particular waterhole,” Patel adds. “We were disappointed with a negative stand taken by Pench and Tadoba, but it is good they are taking up the exercise. They should do it as part of their routine activity,” said wildlife lover Anant Dorlikar. Sources said Melghat will invite registrations through an app. “Other parks can also be added to it,” officials said.