Nagpur: Next time when you spot stagnant water in your surroundings, ensure that it is cleared or be ready to shell out anywhere between Rs100 to Rs500 if the corporation workers find breeding of mosquitoes therein. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) general body on Tuesday approved malaria and filarial department’s bylaw to control larva breeding by penalizing repeat offenders.

 According to the bylaw, NMC will serve notice to the owner/resident if breeding of mosquitoes is found for the first time. If mosquito breeding is found on the premises again, the civic body will impose a fine of Rs100 and Rs500 per container on residential, commercial, official and education premises. If the owners/ residents still fail to curb breeding grounds, another Rs20 (residential), Rs100 (for commercial) and Rs200 (for hospitals, educational institutions, government offices) will be imposed per day on repeat offenders, the bylaw proposes.
 
 “Now, the civic administration will send the proposal to the state government for its nod,” said mayor Nanda Jichkar. Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi stressed that the civic body could implement the bylaw without the nod of the state government. To which, the administration informed that the civic body cannot enforce the bylaw without the government clearance.
 
 Besides this, NMC will also levy complete cost of removal of breeding sites on the owner of the property.
 
 Unequal distribution of funds
 
 Earlier in the House, Congress corporator Nitish Gwalbanshi raised the issue of unequal distribution of funds to first-time corporators. He also cited the examples of Congress corporator Sakshi Raut and Shiv Sena corporator Kishore Kumeriya not getting any funds for carrying out development works. He also informed the House about misleading and incorrect information being provided to the elected members by the civic officials. Former mayor Pravin Datke too supported Gwalbanshi and expressed concern.
 
 Following these allegations, mayor ordered henceforth only deputy commissioner-level officers will reply to the queries of the corporators in the House.
 
 Traffic department under scan
 
 According to Datke, thermoplastic paints have five years warranty. But the NMC’s traffic department is painting dividers every year. Following unsatisfactory reply by department’s executive engineer DD Jambhulkar, the mayor has asked municipal commissioner to inquire into allegations levelled by Datke against irregularities in the traffic department.
 
 Replying to a question raised by BSP leader Mohammed Jamal, mayor asked the civic administration to identify and raze all encroachments on sewerage lines, conservancy lanes and nullahs. “If needed, take police protection,” she said.
 
 Abha Pande raised the issue of NMC’s market department neglecting revenue to be collected from civic body owned shops and platforms in market areas. According to Pande, as many 666 shop owners have defaulted on NMC’s rents to the tune of Rs1.41 crore. 
 
 
