AHMEDABAD: Some   who had appeared in the Post Graduate (PG) medical exam- NEET ( ) after MBBS have received calls from some   promising them to secure “high marks” and “to improve their ranks” if they shell out sums ranging from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 5 lakh.

  
  Shockingly, the unknown caller who promised all-India rank to the students, gave a bank account number to transfer the money and is not ready to take the money in cash. 
 
 Finding this suspicious, a city-based MBBS doctor had first approached the CBI and then Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and then he had filed an application for police complaint in Vejalpur police station.
 
 Not only the doctor who has filed a complaint, but three of his friends, who had appeared in the NEET for PG, have also reported receiving such calls. TOI has access of audio recording of three such students. 
 
 The students stated on the condition of anonymity that they are fearful that their personal data has been leaked that is why they are directly getting calls from agents.
 
 According to those who received such calls, the caller, who claimed that he was speaking from Delhi told a city based junior doctor, “You appeared in the NEET exam where in you have been ranked after 30,000. If you want to top, I can do it. I will put your rank between 5,000 and 10,000.”
 
 Allegedly, the caller had told the junior doctor, “I am talking from Delhi head office. You have to spend a total amount of Rs 3 lakh and you have to provide 40,000 today itself. We will set your rank between 5,000 and 10,000 and you will be able to get admission in some good college. You have to pay the amount in my account at the earliest.”
 
 The unknown agent had also described the junior doctor’s name, his role number, address, examination centre and his category (caste) that he had mentioned in his examination form, and claimed that he has all documents of the students.
 
 One of the students said the city police is not ready to take the complaint and he feared there is either an attempt of cheating or there must be some agents linked with top authorities who conduct NEET exam.
 
 
