Panaji: The   traders are waiting for a raft of permissions from the   animal husbandry department to bring in the meat to Goa. With beef being off the shelves in the state for the third day, the traders, who have the requisite permission from the Goa department, have approached Karnataka for the permissions to transport live  . 

 “We have had several meetings with officials in Belagavi, but to no avail. So we resolved to directly meet the director in Bengaluru,”said president Qureshi meat traders’ association Manna Bepari.
 
  “The director has given us verbal assurance that we will be granted the 1996 transport of animals’ certificate,” said president Qureshi meat traders’ association Manna Bepari.
 
 For transportation of live cattle, the traders need to obtain a fitness certificate as per the 1996 rules, but since the traders were unaware of it, the cattle transportation was stopped by the animal welfare board members, who alleged that the cattle being brought to the abattoir from Belagavi were of “economic and agricultural value”. 
 
 Traders obtained the fitness certificate from the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services in Goa but they need a certificate from Karnataka, too. But the traders said they did not require the certificate to bring cold meat from Belagavi and alleged that despite that, their beef was confiscated and destroyed.
 
 “This is because by purchasing the already cut meat from Belagavi, we have now become the buyers,” Bepari said.
 
 “As a preventive measure, started carrying photocopies of all the certificates from the traders in Belagavi. Even that was not accepted by the activists and meat was destroyed with false allegations that we are transporting calf meat. This is harassment,” Bepari said. Over the past month, Goa police have confiscated around 3,000kg of “illegal” meat being transported from Belagavi.
 
 These photocopies, traders claim, are of the ante-mortem and post-mortem report and the fit for slaughter certificate issued by from veterinary doctors at slaughter houses in Belagavi.
 
 Officials from the Goa’s animal husbandry department told TOI that the cold meat has to be brought in an insulated freezer van which the trader has to arrange on his own. They must also carry ante-mortem and post mortem certificates saying the meat is fit for consumption. Moreover, the meat must be slaughtered from an authorised slaughter house.
 
 “The beef which was caught by Panaji police on Christmas day was in a non-insulated vehicle and they had no certificates to prove the meat’s fitness. The traders were therefore, at fault. If the traders are carrying the certificate photocopies now, the police should verify them. The animal activists cannot intervene in such legal matters. Moreover, the meat has to be sent to the FDA for checking if there are doubts about it,” an official said.
 
 Uday Pednekar, former managing director of GMC, who retired a few months ago, said, “We have no role to play in the transportation of the beef but when it comes to slaughter, we strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government of India. We therefore have no say in the matter.”
 
 
