BHUBANESWAR: In the wake spurt in   cases, the state   has issued a fresh advisory to doctors, asking them to take utmost care while physically examining minor victims of sexual abuse. The   (SOP) features key points of recent guidelines framed by  .

 Director general of police   said medical practitioners play key role while responding to children subjected to sexual abuse. “They should not only provide required medical treatment in quiet and non-threatening ambience to the victims, but also assist the police in collecting right medico-legal evidence and ensuring quality documentation,” Sharma told TOI. The top cop said doctors are given SOP in regular intervals. The fresh SOP, issued to chief district medical officers on Thursday, has also been sent to all SPs.
 
 As per the SOP, copy of which is with TOI, the doctors have been asked to maintain maximum care and sensitivity while eliciting details of sexual assault or injuries from children. “Keep in mind that the narration of the history of sexual assault might be a traumatising experience for survivor. The child may not want to tell you details. Be very sensitive and gently convince the child that the process of getting details is important for treatment,” read the SOP. It further said that the doctors should not pass comments or opinions without properly examining the victims. “An accurate history of the sexual assault can be obtained only by gaining the trust of the child. The child should not be intimidated or coerced to lie,” the SOP read.
 
 According to the guidelines, police officers should not remain present near doctor during medical examination nor during recording of the history of the sexual assault. However, the guidelines say that police officers may remain present along with parents or family members of survivors in some sensitive cases.
 
 As sexual assault on minors became a cause for concern, the state police on Wednesday decided to launch a massive awareness campaign, appealing to people to treat girls with dignity and affection. Fifteen vehicles, designed like chariots, will move across the 30 districts from May 28 till June 12 to sensitise people on girl and women safety. Out of 2,144 rape cases registered in 2016, at least 1,204 cases involved minor girls. Last year, total registration of rape complaints climbed to 2,221, which included 1,283 cases involving minor girls.
 
