TIRUPUR:  , who was among a group of people who had allegedly forced members of a dalit family to fall at their feet, committed suicide near   district on Sunday.

 Preliminary investigations suggest   of Theerthampalayam, who had obtained conditional anticipatory bail in the case, may have been upset over the legal proceedings. But some non-dalits alleged that the dalit family demanded money from the woman for withdrawing the case that was booked under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015.
 
 In the first week of February, a goat belonging to S Devi, 40, strayed into a property owned by Saraswathy, who belonged to the gounder community. Following this, members of her community allegedly convened a kangaroo court on February 15 and forced Devi and her daughter to fall at their feet, in front of her husband and son.
 
 The Kangeyam police registered a case against Saraswathy, Sekar, Manohar, Kavin and Senthil - all belonging to the gounder community.
 
 In the early hours of Sunday, Saraswathy committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling of her house. Police have registered a case and are investigating. They said Saraswathy had been living alone after her husband Periyasamy’s death several years ago. Her daughter, who was married, is settled at Chennimalai in Erode district.
 
 Police sources said, “K Tamilselvi, daughter of Saraswathy, complained that Devi, her husband Sakthivel and their son demanded that Saraswathy give them Rs 10 lakh to withdraw the case, otherwise she should die. The dalit family was planning to get a similar amount from the rest of the accused. Besides, V P Kumar, Murthy and Praveen, who belonged to the arunthathiyar community, were also threatening Saraswathy along with one Kavi.”
 
 Refuting all charges, Devi told TOI that “Since the incident, we have been ostracised by our own community as well as the gounders. Sometimes, when we come across each other Saraswathy would talk in a nasty manner, but we would ignore it. So, how could we have demanded money from them.”
 
 A higher police official said, “Saraswathy and other four other accused had been visiting the Kangeyam police station daily as part of the bail condition. This upset her as much as the fact that the other accused were affected because of her altercation with the dalit family. The allegation of Saraswathi’s daughter and some other members of the gounder community of abetment of suicide against the dalit family will also be investigated. Police have registered the case under Section 174 CrPC (suspicious death). They will alter the section if the allegations are found true,” said the police official.
 
 A senior police official said, “The situation at Theerthampalayam village was completely normal and there were no threats from either side.”
 
 
