JAIPUR: After tasting some degree of success of the strategy of ‘soft Hindutva’ in Gujarat, the   seems to be banking on gods’ grace again to break the boat of the   in   as the high command has sought a list of important places of worship, historical places in Rajasthan where bypolls on three seats are scheduled this month and assembly elections are due by the year end.

 According to sources in the State Pradesh Congress Committee, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) has asked for district wise important places of worship, places of historic importance and tourist interests from Rajasthan.
 
 Sources says the party is short-listing the main places as these places play a very prominent role in the life of the people and party leaders visiting these places would make them relate to the common people.
 
 The party leaders while playing down this as a strategy of ‘soft Hindutva’ to dilute the Hindutva of the ruling BJP said, “The party central leadership wanted all the important places of historic and tourist interest including places of worship as people of the state have an attachment to these places. We are now cataloguing these places in a district wise and would soon send it to the party central leadership,” said the source.
 
 He reasoned that when a central leader visits a district, visiting these places and mentioning its importance in their speeches make him better relate to the people of the area. Incidentally Prime Minister   also used the same strategy during his camping in the 2014 elections. Chief Minister   also never misses an opportunity to visit temples when she visits a district.
 
 The Congress president   visited many prominent temples during the assembly election campaign in Gujarat. His political opponents accused him of adopting ‘soft Hindutva’ to neutralize the BJP charge of Congress anti –Hindu and minority appeasement.
 
 Considering that Rajasthan has many temples of national importance it is sure that temple politics likely to dominate the Rajasthan election as well. Some of the important places of worship include Srinathji in Nathwara, Sawaliyaji in Chittorgarh, Charbhujaji in Rajsamand, Brahma Temple in Pushkar, Tripura Sundari in Banswara, Madan Mohanji temple in Karouli, Salasar Balaji, Govind Devji temple in Jaipur among others.
 
 
