Coimbatore: The district is famed as an education hub, but there appears to be a gap, albeit marginal, in learning that needs to be fixed when it comes to education in government and government-aided schools.

 The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) survey-2017 released on Friday revealed that school students in the district were below state average in learning outcomes.
 
 However, there is a reason to rejoice as Coimbatore students have scored way above their counterparts in several other districts.
 
 According to the survey, the average performance of Class III students in Mathematics was 55% against the state average of 61 %. Class V students too lag a little behind the state average. In the case of Class VIII students, the downward fall in learning outcomes was more stark as they fared even bad at 33 %, two percentage points lower than the state average.
 
 This trend of fall in learning outcomes as the students progressed from Class III to VIII was seen across the state in Mathematics. But there was reversal of this trend when it came to language studies as the students showed significant increase in learning outcomes as they grew up the ladder. While Class III students of Coimbatore was below the state average of 61.48 %, they seemed to improve as they reached Class VIII, up by almost five percentage points from the state average of 57.66%.
 
 The National Achievement Survey, as NCERT calls it, was conducted for Class III, V and VIII of government and aided schools in November last for language, maths, environmental studies and social science.
 
 Education department authorities, however, pointed out that Coimbatore, along with Erode and Dharmapuri in the western region, had scored more than other districts in several aspects.
 
 “There is no need to sulk at the fact that Coimbatore has recorded scores lesser than state average. The difference is only minuscule. We are taking several efforts to bridge that gap,’’ said an education department official.
 
 
