MUMBAI: An online fraudster who targeted prospective car buyers by posing as ex-consular general of   trying to sell his vehicle was busted by an alert account manager from   last week. The giveaway? His broken English.

 This is the second such incident in the recent past. On Monday, TOI had reported how a fraudster pretending to be a former consul general of   posted a BMW car for sale on an e-commerce website.
 
  
 In the latest case, Bandra resident R Ravi (35), on March 30, came across an online post wherein a person offered to sell a year-old   sedan for Rs6 lakh. A similar variant costs Rs13 lakh. “I was planning to buy a car and was going through the car sale portal. I called up the person who identified himself as James Fife, an exconsular general of Germany. He said he was selling his car as he has been transferred back to his country,” Ravi, who works in a wealth management company, told TOI.
 
 However, Ravi felt something amiss as Fife spoke broken English, and there were grammatical errors in his mail. “I got suspicious when the person asked me to transfer 10% of the cost to his secretary’s bank account first. I tried to call the German consulate to know about him, but the office was closed,” he said.
 
 To clear his doubts, Ravi then asked the man to show him the car registration number (hidden in the ad) and documents first. Instead Ravi received another mail. “Fife claimed he was receiving a lot of enquiries, so he can’t give everyone authorisation letter to visit the consulate office. I was asked to pay the 10% advance so that he can arrange for my visit to the consulate to check the car,” he said, adding that this is when he decided to call off the deal.
 
 Ravi told TOI he did not approach police as he had not fallen victim to the fraud. When TOI contacted   police, under whose jurisdiction the the consulate office is situated, senior inspector   said they have not received any complaint so far from the consulate. TOI made phone calls and sent an email to the consulate, but did not receive any response.
 
