GHAZIABAD: A few   youth workers were chased away by police when they started selling ‘pakodas’ from a temporary stall set up outside the residence of Union minister and local MP   in   on Thursday. The policemen also dismantled the stall and threw away utensils that the workers had brought with them to fry the ‘pakodas’.

 The entire episode was captured in videos shot on mobile phones. The stall, set up in Sector 3 of Rajnagar, was named ‘Modi   Shop’ with a tagline that unemployed youth could avail training in making pakodas here.
 
 The SP workers had set up the stall apparently to mock Prime Minister Narendra   for his remark that those selling pakodas for a living can be considered as engaged in gainful employment. Modi’s remarks were reiterated by BJP president Amit Shah during his maiden speech in Rajya Sabha on February 5. Shah had said: “It is better for youth to earn a living selling pakodas instead of being unemployed. Making pakodas is not shameful.”
 
 Samajwadi functionaries questioned the attitude of police under the Yogi Aditya Nath government after being evicted from the area.
 
 “On the one hand, the PM and the BJP president are inspiring unemployed youth to sell pakodas in order to make a living. On the other hand, the police of the state government is not allowing youth to sell pakodas by setting up stalls. We would like top leaders of the BJP to clarify their actual position,” SP city president Rahul Chaudhary told TOI.
 
 Police said there was no permission from any agency to set up stalls in the area. 
 
 Besides, police said the workers were evicted to san-itise the area around the residence of Singh, who is a Union minister.
 
 “The remarks on pakodas were made in a larger context pertaining to employment and job opportunities. Opposition political parties, including the SP and the Congress, are short of ideas. They do not have real issues to focus on. That’s the reason they harp on to any particular word uttered by PM Narendra Modi and try to make a big issue out of it,” said BJP city president Man Singh Goswami.
 
 
