NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA   will approach Delhi assembly   Ram Niwas Goel to initiate   against   for claiming they had invited him to the   on the proposed amendments to Master Plan 2021. Bharadwaj maintained that he “did not receive an invitation from DDA by email or SMS”.

 Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Bharadwaj, who is AAP’s chief spokesperson in Delhi, claimed to have been “publically embarrassed by this claim of DDA officials that they had sent me an invite”. “My privilege as an MLA has been violated. I had sent them suggestions and I deserved an official invite, but that did not come and now it is being made out that   MLAs failed to show up at the meeting,” Bharadwaj asserted.
 
 Raising the issue on behalf of the other legislators too, Bharadwaj said, “I and the other MLAs had sent our suggestions and made our point through these suggestions. Hence, I consider this controversy an attempt to politicise the issue.” 
 
 On being intimated by an MLA, the speaker, in his discretion, decides whether to refer the matter to the Privileges Committee of the assembly. If he does, then notices are issued to the people named in the complaint, who have to appear before the panel for questioning. 
 
 When contacted, DDA officials reiterated that all those who had sent their suggestions/objections were informed about the public hearing via e-mail. Udai Pratap Singh, DDA vice-chairman, said, “So far we have not received any complaint regarding this. We sent emails and inserted public notices in the newspapers, and around 180 people attended the hearings in the past two days. We have organised a public hearing on Monday for those who couldn’t come on the first two days.”
 
 Only three of the 39 AAP MLAs who had send their suggestions to DDA were present at Friday’s public meeting. Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti, who is also a DDA member, claimed at the hearing that his colleagues were not informed about the public meeting and requested DDA to hold the meeting either on Saturday or Monday. “The entire exercise is being carried out at short notice,” said Bharti. Other legislators present were Sarita Singh (Rohtas Nagar) and Kartar Singh Tanwar (Chhatarpur).
 
 
