GURUGRAM: A unique project to counsel government school children so that they can talk about their feelings, handle stressful situations and engage in positive relationships with their peers will commence from May.

 The objective of the project-- ‘Project Zindagi’ is to empower teachers to help students deal with stress, exam pressure and aggression etc.
  
 The project will run as a pilot in 15   across the four blocks. An NGO has been roped in to implement this project. “Project Zindagi is a much needed initiative for school children. Children will be empowered with necessary skills and they will be able to talk about their feelings, handle stressful situations and engage in positive relationships with their peers. Training of teachers will ensure happier environment in schools as they will be equipped to address concerns in their class rooms and refer to experts whenever needed,” said Divya Vaishnava, director, BUD Foundation, a child rights organisation.
 
 As part of the project, a helpline ‘mera dost’ will be started through which the children will be able to share their problems directly with the clinical psychologist through phone. 
 
 ‘Joyful Saturdays’ (fun periods during schools on Saturdays) will be utilised to inculcate mental health exercises apart from the ongoing physical health exercises. Meditation and yoga would be an important part of the structure of the day. Gunjan Gahlot, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate (CMGGA) for  , “In the past few years there have been many incidents concerning students and teachers well-being. It is time that we see education in a more holistic way and focus on mental health of the child. There are a number of concerns like stress, anxiety, and learning disabilities etc. which need to be addressed systematically.” (Chief Ministers Good Governance Associates programme (CMGGA) is a partnership between the   Government and Ashoka University.
 
  
 Designed as an experiential programme, CMGGA aims to recruit young men and women to work with the district administrations in Haryana).
 
  will also be launched to fill in the gaps of government schools having no counsellors. “Private schools can afford to have counselors but Government Schools work with limited resources. The project aims to be a first-aid for mental health. We want the teachers to identify the concerns at the school level and then be the first counselor to them. If need be, the critical cases will be referred to a professional counselor. In Gurugram, there is a huge migrant population. They live in slums and often such kids are exposed to drug and sexual abuse. Such students need support and guidance,” added Gunjan.
 
  
 The project will be divided in phases. In the first, 15 government schools will be selected based on random selection. Volunteers have been asked from amongst the teachers who can come forward and be part of this project. Training is 48 hours training, divided for a period of four months, in a month they will have to come to DIET twice for training. About 60 teachers will be trained to make a batch. Sessions on the counselor’s role, ethics, children's psychology needs, stress-related issues in schools, special learning disabilities, screening of learning disabilities, social and emotional changes in adolescence will be a part of the overall training.
 
