CHENNAI: Snowed under by complaints of almost half of   in   gobbled up by two-wheelers of people visiting the hub of automobile workshops, the traffic police have removed the offending vehicles. But the eviction inadvertently sparked another problem: most bikes are now parked on the pavement, making life hard for pedestrians.

 
 The change on busy Harris Road, however, is visible, with motorists able to access almost the entire width. Senior police officers said they had in the past two weeks booked about 4,500 cases for traffic violations, including at least 4,000 for illegal parking of two-wheelers, on the road.
 
 Some officers in their enthusiasm have been slapping cases against those parking vehicles even for a few moments, say some shopkeepers. But the law enforcers seem determined not allow any obstruction on the road. “We have deployed about 20 personnel from morning to evening to patrol the stretch from Egmore Metropolitan Magistrate court complex to   junction on Harris Road,” said a senior officer.
 
 The police have also deployed a wrecker vehicle to tow away illegally parked bikes and cars. Some of the traders said it was a good initiative even if it meant that they themselves could no longer park bikes in front of their shops. A few have now started using the pavement as a parking lot, blocking it for pedestrians.
 
 The situation earlier, many long-time residents of the area say, was chaotic, with scores of two-wheelers occupying a large swathe of the road and the shop-keepers operating from workshops extended on to the pavement almost throughout the day. Now, the repair activities are restricted to their hole-in-the-wall shops. Gouse Basha, who has lived in the neighbourhood for a long time, said he had never seen the road appear so wide except when former chief minister   once passd through. “This has been one of my dreams in life. The police should maintain this,” he said.
 
 The police seem keen to ensure that officers in the area do not slacken vigil after the initial enthusiasm. Additional commissioner of police (traffc) A Arun said they would continue with the system. “We have got good feedback and appreciation letters from many residents and road users on the stretch. We have also been getting positive words for making a portion of St Mary’s Road a one-way stretch and for traffic diversion on Old   near Indira Nagar bridge,” he said.
 
