VISAKHAPATNAM: Farmers across the state would be able to access credit cards, should the government’s ongoing talks with   yield successful results.

 The move would be highly beneficial for the farming community across a wide range of aspects, most importantly enabling them easy access to digital transactions and freeing them from cash shortage woes. At present, farmers are able to access Rupay cards or Kisan Vikas Cards to avail agriculture loans from banks. 
 
 “The Rupay cards are completely Indian-based cards whereas Visa and Mastercard are international cards and are based out of US,” E  , deputy general manager,  , told TOI.
 
 AP government principal secretary to the department of information technology K Vijayanand said the farmers are presently getting credit cards, but there has been no official ‘Credit Rating’ for the cards. If the credit rating is given to farmers, it would be more beneficial to the farming community as they can use credit cards at all times.
 
 Vijayanand said credit rating is nothing but an estimate of the ability of a person or organization to fulfil financial commitments, based on previous dealings.
 
 “Yes, credit rating for farmers is one area we are working on to facilitate easy and timely credit to farmers,” said IT minister  . For this, the government has tied up with Mastercard to explore various possibilities to give credit rating for farmers.
 
 Mastercard executive director Ravi Aurora said their company has a total of six technological labs across the world including two in the country. The company is working with the AP government to work on various possibilities including the credit rating for the farmers besides giving highest importance to cyber security. “All this are the part of the MoU signed with the AP government on four core issues including credit rating to farmers,” Aurora added.
 
 Aurora said giving utmost importance to cyber security is the essential prerequisite for ushering in a digital and cashless economy. Lokesh also said the state government, which is promoting digital technologies in the state, is also equally giving importance to cyber security.
 
 
