SHIMLA: In the BJP-ruled Shimla municipal corporation, mayor Kusum Sadret faced an embarrassing situation during her first   presentation on Monday when some BJP councillors joined the opposition chorus of alleged favourtism in allocating projects and funds for wards.

 Two BJP councillors –– Arti Chauhan and Satya Kaundal –– even walked out of the MC House in protest.
 
 Amid noisy scenes, Sadret presented the Rs 355.51-crore budget for the financial year 2018-19. She kept a provision of Rs 50 lakh fund to make women from poor sections self-reliant.
 
 She said the budget has the provision to provide round-the-clock drinking water in three wards of Shimla. She said old pipes would be replaced and bulk meters would be installed in the pumping stations to improve water supply. She also announced the start of distribution of water consumption bills based on meter reading from April.
 
 She said the budget has provision of Rs 6.40 crore to lay sewerage lines in Shimla. She said a sewage treatment plant would be set up at Totu at a cost of Rs 20 crore and announced Rs 5 crore for the maintenance of plant.
 
 She also announced installation of 500 LED lights across the town and construction of parking lots at different places to accommodate 800 vehicles.
 
 She said a footpath with an overhead cover would be constructed from Indira Gandhi Medical College to Sanjauli and a parking lot with a capacity to accommodate 350 vehicles would be constructed near Sanjauli college. She also announced construction of ambulance roads in the wards.
 
 Unhappy with the budget announcements, several councillors from the  , CPM and BJP created ruckus in the house. They said the budget has been prepared keeping only a few wards in focus. Those opposing the budget included Arti Chauhan and Satya Kaundal from BJP and   and   from the Congress.
 
 Arti Chauhan and Satya Kaundal walked up to the chair of mayor to lodge their protest. Though the mayor tried to pacify the protesting councillors, her requests went unheard. A little later, Chauhan and Kaundal walked out of the house.
 
 Congress councillor   and CPM councillor Shailee Sharma said a deficit budget was presented in the House. She said charges of garbage collection and property tax have been increased, but the income generation on these heads has been shown less.
 
 Chauhan alleged that the mayor has catered to only   and Totu wards in the budget while ignoring other wards completely. She said suggestions of councillors were taken before the budget, but the same were not included. She said she protested against the budget as there was nothing in it and after five years she has to answer the people who had elected her.
 
 
