CHANDIGARH: After   and Haryana High Court’s directive to National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT) regarding the errors in biology textbooks, the   has finally taken note of the issue. NCERT has now approached the petitioner through a communique and invited him to Delhi to put up his views on the applications sent to NCERT on May11, 2017 and Novermber 4, 2017. Dinesh  , professor and head department of science and mathematics sent a letter which read, “As directed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, NCERT will take a decision after providing an opportunity of hearing the views of petitioner. Accordingly, you are requested to visit NCERT on February 21.”

 The court on December 6 acting on a petition filed by Dr Arvind  , a city-based expert, directed NCERT to take a call on the representation highlighting 17 errors in biology textbooks of classes XI and XII within six weeks.
 Arvind Goyal gives tuition classes to medical aspirants. He had pointed out around 17 errors in the biology textbooks and had sent representations to NCERT but they did not respond to his requests. Goyal also wrote letter to the Prime Minister’s Office who also directed NCERT to respond, but to no avail. After his efforts bore no fruit, he filed a writ petition with Punjab and Haryana High Court on November 21.
 
 TOI has extensively reported about letters sent to PMO along with detailed NCERT errors which are mentioned in the reportage. Goyal shared that the correspondence with NCERT regarding the errors in the biology textbooks that were circulated in 2012.
 
 “There have been more than 100 errors that were rectified in biology books after we brought the mistakes to fore. But earlier also this was not carried out even after PMO’s intervention and later a petition was filed. It was only after the Punjab and Haryana high court order to NCERT to carry out the alterations in pursuance to the representation of the petitioner through order dated March 13, 2014. Thereafter, again a representation was made in respect of 25 new errors and a petition was filed again after which NCERT was directed to rectify the new erring. Though, NCERT has rectified numerous errors but there are still some which have not been corrected. Around 11errors were pointed out to NCERT last year to which NCERT has not responded yet.
 
 “Previously as well NCERT had acted only after the high court passed the order. Similarly no action has been taken this time on our representation. Sadly, NCERT has ignored the directions from the PMO which were issued thrice. Is the directive of PMO weak or the national council does not even take cognizance of PMO’s directions? Where does a common man go to get his grievances redressed? Why should we knock the doors of courts which are already overburdened with other cases when a matter can be resolved without the court?” questioned Goyal.
 
