KOLKATA: They are a bunch of 10 ordinary teenagers, who nourish the dream of making it big. But their HIV-positive status has turned them into social pariahs, with the city offering them no space to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams.

 Out to open their own café called “Cafe Positive”, all they have met with for the last three months is a big negative. No house-owner in some of south Kolkata’s posh localities has been willing to rent out space once told about “who will manage and run the shop”.
 
 While a few landlords have straightaway refused saying “e paray erom cholbena (such business won’t run in this neighbourhood)”, others have been courteous enough with financial help and old clothes, but pleaded helplessness in renting out space to the 18-plus teens.
 
 The   funding the café and trying to find a 750sqft space has approached over a dozen owners since December at locations like Golpark, Dover Lane,  , Hindustan Park and Purna Das Road. “We have been looking for a suitable space for the café since December and approached a number of house-owners directly and through brokers. The owners initially seemed excited at the concept, but the moment they learnt that the shop will be managed and run solely by HIV-positive children, they backed out,” said  , founder of Anandaghar, a shelter for abandoned HIV/AIDS-infected children.
 
 TOI spoke to two house-owners, one at Lake Road and the other at Dover Lane. “I would not mind renting out space to them. But we live in a joint family and some members have objections. I could not convince them, so I rejected the offer,” said a landlady.
 
 The house-owner at Dover Lane, too, blamed her neighbours and family. “I don’t know how people in our neighbourhood would react to it. I know there are many misconceptions associated with  . I don’t think I am in a position to convince everyone. Moreover, I have now decided to rent the space to a boutique and not an eatery,” he said.
 
 The Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (Prevention and Control) Bill, 2017 defines what can count as discrimination against HIV-positive people. It lists that denial or discontinuation of employment, education, healthcare services, renting or residing property, standing for public or private office will count as discrimination along with unfair treatment in any of the above mentioned categories.
 
 The shelter at Narendrapur is home to around 70-odd young patients and this café project is part of an initiative to make a group self-sufficient. The NGO will give the initial funds and later hand over the management of the café to the 10 boys and girls, who would be running it.
 
 “We have been undergoing training at this shelter and can’t wait to start our café. We know the disease we suffer from and how it spreads or what precautions we need to take. But strangely, the adults don’t understand that HIV doesn’t spread through touch and often hesitate to even shake hands with us,” said   (name changed), a Class XII student who was diagnosed with HIV when he was just 5.
 
 “HIV does not spread by kissing, hugging, sharing food/drink, toilet seats, sweat, touching, sneeze/cough or through insect bites. We also want society to know about these from our café. But for that, we first need an opportunity,” said Sathi Biswas (name changed), another Class XII student who specialises in sandwich-making and baking cookies.
 
 According to the plan, food and beverages at the 750sqft ground-floor café will be served on disposable plates and there will be no sharp cutleries or glass items that can cause bleeding. “We are not looking for any exceptions or rebate and are ready to pay as per the existing market rate but even then not a single house-owner is ready,” lamented Ghosh.
 
 
