INDORE: Despite the fact that roses have always surpassed the list of favourite flowers, the exotic looking   are attracting the residents of Indore more now. The city-based florists are witnessing a rising   in the sales of lilies this  . While other flowers don’t stay fresh for long, lilies endure.

 The Indore flower market has oriental and Asiatic lilies, which are in much demand nowadays, said florist  . According to Das, they grow well in sun and that’s the reason they remain fresh longer as compared to other flowers.
 
 “One stick of oriental lilies has 4-5 flowers plus buds and the Asiatic ones have 3-4 flowers. When two sticks are assembled for a bouquet, it looks exotic, so more customers get attracted to it,” he said, while trying to bargain with a client about the quality of his yellow oriental lilies.
 
 The oriental lilies are the big ones with a soothing fragrance, whereas the Asiatic lilies come without any fragrance and are small in size. The customers can cherry-pick from a variety of colours, predominantly- yellow, pink, orange and white.
 
 A 20-year-old college student Yash Raj, who likes to surprise his girlfriend with flowers, has started opting for lilies. “Lilies are the best option for bouquet as it looks impressive. I ordered a bouquet of only two stick, but, it looks so big,” said Raj pointing towards the bouquet in his hand.
 
 While some opt for lilies due to its bigger size as compared to the other flowers, some end up buying it due to its fragrance and longevity. “Some days back, my mom sniffed the oriental lilies and she loved its fragrance so my sister and I decided that throughout the summers we will keep yellow oriental lilies in her room,” said  , who was buying lilies from a flower shop.
 
  of Old-Palasia-based flower shop said, roses are not in much demand as compared to other flowers, especially lilies. Ali, who gets his lilies from Delhi said, “It’s due to the bigger size that it makes a beautiful option for the bouquet. Also, it lasts longer in summer.
 
 One stick of oriental lilies ranges from Rs150-200 onwards, whereas the cost of one stick of Asiatic starts from Rs 100, depending on the quality of the flower. Also, it depends upon the number of buds that can last from 6-15 days.
 
 Prashant Saraf of Anand Bazaar-based flower shop said, customers prefer oriental more due to the fragrance and beauty. “Earlier we used to get these lilies from Delhi. But, now we import it from   so the selling price of these flowers have also decreased attracting more customers,” he added.
 
 
