NEW DELHI: After the datesheet of the   for Class 10 and 12 was released by the board on Wednesday, many students are complaining about the less gap in between the exams. 

 Some students and parents are even planning to approach the   to changes the dates of exams. 
 
 As per the   datesheet, there is only one day holiday between the first exam, English and Physics. 
 
 "English is a major subject after which we will not get any chance to revise for Physics paper as the holiday between the papers is for Rangpanchami. This is unfair, we as a class are planning to approach CBSE regarding the same," said Sudhanshu Seth, a science stream student from the Indore.
 
 "There is only a one-day gap for the physics paper. It has 15 chapters. Can't be covered in one day," a student from Delhi tweeted.
 
 "Worst date sheet made by #CBSE only 1 day gap for phy. Are you out of your mind ? How can we prepare for world's toughest subject ? (sic)" wrote Nikhil Joshi, another student from Delhi. 
 
 For Class 12 humanities stream students, the history paper is scheduled on March 20, which is followed by Mathematics examination on March 21. 
 
 "I am shocked to see not even a single day gap between two papers. I am so puzzled about how to prepare," said Nandani Soni a humanities student from Indore. 
 
 "Please intervene. CBSE 12 humanities date sheet a cheat. Psychology n pol sc on consecutive days means poor score. College admissions already difficult (sic)," wrote CBSE Delhi student Sakul Puri on Twitter.
 
 Most students demanded a revision of the date sheet. They added that the JEE Main and the physical education exams were also scheduled on consecutive days.
 
 While many students are complaining about the gaps, some parents from Chandigarh have written to the CBSE board requesting to revise the examination timetable. TOI has copies of many such emails.
 
 Varkha Bajaj, a parent from Chandigarh, said, "The datesheet is shocking. In all the streams, students have enough time for preparation in between but in humanities, the time is so little. It is a serious matter."
 
