Film critic and activist Mahesh Kathi has been at loggerheads with fans of Pawan Kalyan, thanks to his constant criticism of their  . Kathi had staunchly criticised  's political and film choices — something which hasn't gone down well, not just with Pawan Kalyan's fans but also his industry colleagues.

 The situation was beginning to spiral out of control after Pawan's co-star   openly attacked the film critic on social media, labelling him as a "fatso". Kathi shot back, raising questions of the nature of her relationship with Pawan Kalyan. With things taking a bitter turn, writer-director   stepped in and attempted to diffuse the situation. 
 
 Kona Venkat, however, slammed Kathi on Wednesday, for refusing to maintain silence even after his request. "Unfortunately, after my tweet on 7th, u continued ur debates on the same issue in few channels and also involved some student organisations in attacking PK & his fans.. Does “SILENCE” has different meaning in ur dictionary?? (sic)," the writer-director posted on social media.
 
 Earlier, Venkat had requested Mahesh Kathi to remain silent on the issue till January 15, perhaps in an attempt to resolve the situation among themselves. "SILENCE IS A TRUE FRIEND WHO NEVER BETRAYS”.... I request everyone to maintain Silence till 15th January.. I request even Mahesh Kathi to maintain silence.. going to any media house or using any platform to speak against fans or PK will spoil the attempt to bring peace (sic)," Venkat had said. 
 
 Kathi, however, hit back on Tuesday and asked the director how much longer would he have to maintain silence, when personal attacks are being hurled against his own family. "where are you sir? In my silence, attack by PK and his fans has only extended from me to my family. Now tell me, what you will do? (sic)," he asked.
 
 With the war of words resuming once again, it remains to be seen if either of them would be willing to take a step back and bring an end to this rather distasteful saga. 
 
 
