Chennai: The last club —   —   coached was relegated from   (England’s second tier competition) in 2014-15 season. To make matters worse, Gregory, who had never won a trophy ever either in his playing or managerial career, was forced to take a two-year sabbatical due to a heart surgery.  , who finished seventh last season, then were taking a huge risk when they replaced  , under whom they won 2015 ISL, with the 63-year-old Gregory. But it all paid off on Saturday when Chennaiyin defeated Bengaluru FC 3-2 to win their second   title in four years.

 
 
 Gregory, who is fondly called Dadu (grandfather) by the players, said the feeling of winning his first-ever trophy hasn’t sunk in yet. “It’s quite incredible. It has not sunk in yet. If I sit down and watch the recording of the game, probably it will all make sense,” Gregory told a press conference here on Sunday.
 
 On their way to success, Gregory not only had to live up to the reputation of Materazzi but faced other challenges too. “I’ve never been to India, so I had to quickly acclimatise to the culture and customs. There’s also a lot of red tape here. In Europe, you can do warm-ups any time you want on match days. Here, they give you a 40-minute time before the game. So it gets frustrating. Then the travelling is very different and a bit long. But at the end, I feel it’s enormously satisfying,” said Gregory.
 
 As reported by TOI, Chennaiyin extended Gregory’s contract by a year. Co-owner Vita Dani confirmed the development on Sunday. “We have tied him up for next season only. He prefers it that way,” said Dani.
 
 However, Chennaiyin didn’t get off to the best of starts under Gregory, who was also banned for three matches later in the tournament as a result of verbal altercation with a referee. Chennaiyin conceded three goals in the first half of their first match before Gregory changed the side’s formation from 4-4-1-1 to 4-2-3-1 and built his side around the experienced defenders. It worked as Chennaiyin emerged one of the most miserly sides, conceding only 22 goals. Gregory also focused on the side’s fitness. That his boys have scored 12 of their 31 goals in the final 15 minutes speaks about the quality in the side.
 
 “We played Pune away in our third match and we shackled forwards like Marcelinho and Alfaro. We kept a cleansheet and it showed I had a solid defence, comprising Mailson Alves, Inigo Calderon, Henrique Sereno and a young Jerry Lalrinzuala. I knew defence was the squad’s strength. Things started to progress and we managed to qualify in top four. FC Goa were the best team in the league. So when we beat them 3-0 in the second leg semis, we knew we could beat Bengaluru too at their home,” Gregory said.
 
 If defence was Chennaiyin’s strong suit, they relied on set pieces to score goals. Gregory’s boys scored as many as 12 out of 31 goals from corners and free-kicks, including Mailson’s brace in the final. “We always try and make sure that players deliver the ball in a dangerous position. It’s the most important part. We were fortunate that Gregory Nelson did it twice last night from those corners,” the former Aston Villa coach said.
 
 For Chennaiyin, the contributions of Indian players like Dhanpal Ganesh, who held the midfield together, and striker Jeje Lalpekhlua were also crucial. Gregory said the domestic players in the squad have improved by leaps and bounds over the last six months. “We have a few Indian players who didn’t pass the ball as well as the foreigners and they were okay with it. But we rectified that attitude. We have monitored them for 24 hours and saw their energy could be an asset. For example, I didn’t see Ganesh playing in a role he did when I came here. But he is our dog in central midfield, who fights with everyone and tackles. He’s got a really good engine in him. I am glad that we backed these players and they proved themselves,” Gregory said.
 
 
 After the high of ISL, the coach, who will return to England on Tuesday for a week’s break, has now trained his sights on Super Cup where Chennaiyin play Aizawl FC on March 31. “We had played them in a preseason game and beaten them 1-0. They are a quality side. We knew this competition was coming at the end of the season. So we are prepared,” Gregory said.
 
 
