CHANDIGARH: Even as the business advisory committee of   assembly added two more sittings to the ongoing   during its meeting on Tuesday, leader of opposition   demanded extension of the session by two more days.

 Parliamentary affairs minister   told TOI that a decision was taken to extend the session’s businesses on March 22 and 27. The discussion on the governor’s address, which was scheduled to end in the second sitting on March 21, will now continue on Thursday morning. Earlier, only non-official business was to be carried out on Thursday, but now it will be preceded by concluding discussion on governor’s address. Later, one hour will be spent on non-official business.
 
 Besides, the reports of Controller and Auditor General of India (CAG) for 2016-17, presentation of demands of grants regarding supplementary estimates for 2017-18 and Appropriation Bill regarding supplementary estimates for the year 2017-18 will now be tabled on March 22 instead of March 26, the day of the budget.
 
 The committee has also decided to hold another sitting on March 27. Earlier, there was only a morning sitting scheduled for continuation of general discussion on the budget estimates. Presentation of the budget estimates by finance minister   will be preceded by a question-answer session.
 
 Chief minister   will host a lunch for the MLAs on Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile,   said, “I recorded my dissent and stage a walkout in protest against the partisan conduct of the business advisory committee, refusing to extend the session in accordance with the aspirations of elected representatives. Although the   has added 2-3 more sittings in the current season, I had demanded two more clear days apart from the said sittings for a fair debate on the burning issues of Punjab.”
 
 “AAP MLAs will get only 31 minutes each in both the sittings to debate on governor’s address tomorrow, which is insufficient and a joke of the vital platform of assembly. I term this short session a mockery of democracy,” he added.
 
 The changes
 
 Discussion on governor’s address to continue on Thursday
 
 Reports of CAG to be tabled on Thursday
 
 Question-answer session to precede presentation of budget
 
 Afternoon sitting added on Tuesday
 
 
