It’s been 10 days since Naa Peru Surya, Naa Illu India released, but admittedly   is still living his character. “The role of Surya was so intense it left a big impact on me, so much so that I’m unable to detach myself from it,” admits the Stylish Star, whose portrayal of an   man with short fuse has won him a lot of accolades. 
Ask him if he has also gotten hot-tempered like his character, and he breaks into smile,saying, “Every character we play leaves an impact on us. Unknowingly, we adopt certain mannerisms of the characters we play. My goal is to undo that before starting a new role and that’s the biggest challenge.” 
 Producer   is in awe of the panache with which Allu Arjun carried off the role. “Playing an Army officer is not easy because of the physical and mental challenge that it presents. But Bunny pulled it off superbly. He was always a fitness freak, so after just one month of rigorous training, he was ready. No other hero would’ve dared to pull off what Bunny did. It was a special role by a special actor,” he says, adding, “Even before doing this film, Bunny had applied to be an honourary member of the  . So when Naa Peru Surya came his way, he gleefully accepted it and his determination is seen in his performance.”
 Sridhar says that more than the box-office collections, it’s the example this film has set that’s given him immense satisfaction and joy. “This film is based on a simple premise — every citizen is an embodiment of all of India. Just like how we live in India, the same way, the India also lives in each and every one of us. Bunny’s character, Surya highlights the fact that the enemy is not always across the border, and can exist within the state as well. It is relevant to the situation prevailing in the country today where young minds are being poisoned in the name of religion, cast and creed. So the film implores the audience to take responsibility of themselves,” the producer says, adding, “Naa Peru Surya is an ideal summer entertainer as it has a mix of action, romance and drama. But above all, it makes you feel proud of your country and the Indian Army,” he adds. 
 
 
