BATHINDA: Anticipating lesser funds as crop loan from Nabard this time,   Central Cooperative Bank has been forced to disburse lesser money to   as short-term crop loan against the sanctioned credit limit. But the move has not gone down well with the farmers who have started demanding the release of full sanctioned limit, saying that they are facing problems in preparing fields for sowing paddy nursery.

 Though the credit limit has been fixed at Rs 14,000 per acre for members of the multipurpose cooperative agricultural service societies (MCASS), the Bathinda Central Cooperative Bank is providing Rs 9,500 to Rs 10,000 per acre to the applicants.
 
 Apart from cash credit limit of Rs 14,000, there is a provision of advancement of Rs 9,000 per acre for fertilisers and pesticides against which the bank is providing Rs 6,000 per acre. These attract an interest rate of 7% and there is rebate of 3% in interest through government subvention if farmers repay the loan in time.
 
 The bank has another option of offering Rs 40,000 per member for cattle feed and essential commodities termed as household loan, which has interest rate of 11%. The bank is ready to provide full amount due to higher interest rate for the borrowers.
 
 The bank advances these loans from money provided by the Nabard (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). Bathinda district has 193 societies, which have nearly 90,000 members. There are 37 branches of the central cooperative bank in Bathinda.
 
 The farmers, who are preparing fields to start planting nursery of paddy from May 20, are demanding disbursal of full loan amount. Farmer Nikka Singh of Kotshamir village said, “I had gone to the bank to take loan, but they offered me Rs 9,500 per acre whereas the limit is up to Rs 14,000 per acre.”
 
 Sadhu Singh, another farmer from Lehra Bega village, said the cooperative bank was not providing full amount of crop loan due to which he was facing hardships in preparing fields for sowing paddy nursery.
 
 Sources said as some frauds had been detected in a few branches of the bank, it is making cut in lending to overcome its losses.
 
 On the other hand, the bank authorities claimed that anticipating less money for lending from Nabard, they were making cuts in the advances to the farmers as crop loans.
 
 Farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) and Punjab State Cooperative Societies Employee Union have lent support to the farmers. They demanded that farmers should be provided full loan amount by the Bathinda Central Cooperative Bank.
 
 Societies employee union’s Ferozepur division chief Jaskaran Singh and Bathinda district head Bikkar Singh said some branches of the central cooperative bank had suffered losses due to frauds committed by some employees. “Due to that, the bank was making a cut in loan amount in Bathinda. We will not tolerate it and will hold a protest if the full loan amount is not provided,” said Bikkar.
 
 State cooperation department’s Bathinda district deputy registrar (DR) Balwinder Singh confirmed that crop loans being disbursed were lesser than the upper limit. He said, “As Nabard is expected to decrease the loan amount, we are forced to reduce the disbursed amount. Last year, Nabard had provided Rs 224 crore for disbursal as crop loan but this time it is expected that it may lend nearly Rs 200 core on June 30. Currently, the bank is advancing loans from the recoveries made by it in the recent past.”
 
 He, however, denied that loan cut was made to overcome losses due to fraud in some branches of the Bathinda Central Cooperative Bank.
 
 Farmers locked the bank branches at Talwandi Sabo and Phool and did not allow the staff to come out till evening. The bank staff sought security from the police. 
 
 When contacted, Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Naveen Singla said, “At Phool, the protest has been lifted and the cops have been sent at Talwandi Sabo to resolve the issue. It is expected to be settled in some time.”
 
 
