Born in Lothal in 1933, sculptor Himmat Shah grew up in the surroundings by the remnants of the ancient port city of Indus Valley civilisation. Shah, 85, who has lived in Bhavnagar, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Delhi before shifting to Jaipur since 2000, spoke to Prashant Rupera, while he was in the city to visit his friends after 15 years. 

 You were part of the early batches of M S University’s Faculty of Fine Arts, tell us about the days you spent in Vadodara. 
 
 I learnt the intricacies of art under teachers like N S Bendre, Mani Sir (K G Subramanian) and Sankho Chaudhuri. But I used to attend college whenever I wanted to. Instead, I used to spend time working outside the classrooms. I would show my works to Bendre, he would give some inputs. I would show my works to Mani sir and make changes based on their suggestions. Since, I did not attend classes, Bendre asked me to become non-collegian student. But I used to learn from both of them.
 
 How did the garba culture spread in Vadodara? 
 
 In the 50s, as students, we used to play ‘garbas’ with instruments like ‘dholaks’ at the fine arts faculty premises almost every day. As friends, we did it just for entertainment. But later Navratri came and slowly it became a trend. Gradually, this trend started spreading in surrounding ‘mohallas’ and the garba culture picked up. The fine arts faculty was just started and we even used to play ‘Holi’ at vice-chancellor’s residence.
 
 So, how did you pursue your formal studies in fine arts?
 
 I never appeared for any exams. I never took any degree from the university. Who are you to give me degrees? I have never believed that degrees can help you learn or acquire knowledge.
 
 Where there hostels at the campus? 
 
 Hostels were there. But who had the money to stay in the hostels. Jyotibhai (referring to veteran artist Jyoti Bhatt) had offered me a place. Teachers like Bendre and Mani Sir, would allow me to stay in their home. And I also used to handle their kitchens and maintain their homes when they were not in the city.
 
 Without a degree, how did get French scholarship? 
 
 Poet diplomat Octavio Paz, who was himself an art critic, was appointed as ambassador to India. I was in Delhi in those days. One day, he suddenly visited the place where I used to stay. I did not have a chair at this place and there was just a kerosene stove but such a big poet and Nobel prize winner was in front of me. But he kept smoking ‘biddi’ and looking at my work for three hours. At last, he remarked, “great work”. Later, he invited me to almost all functions at his residence where I met big poets, authors and artists. It was by listening to them that I gained knowledge. Before, that I never knew that Russia has rich literature. But they used to discuss a variety of subjects. It was because of Octavio, that I received the government scholarship and went to study etching in Paris in 1967.
 
  You also received Lalit Kala award at very young age
 
 The entire birth of Lalit Kala Akademi happened overnight. Jawaharlal Nehru had become Prime Minister. Somebody asked him about contemporary art scenario in India. Akademi was set up overnight. It started giving awards. But when I received the award in 1959 at the age of 22, it was just Rs 1,000. Since teachers were involved in the process, I also made fun of them saying that they cannot think beyond such amount. Why didn’t they think of setting Rs one lakh as cash prize for the artists? Teachers should be rebellious.
 
 Initially, you had to struggle a lot
 
 When I moved to Delhi, a gallery had hosted my show. Journalists who had come to cover the show started asking me questions. I asked them to first see my work which irked the organizers. Most galleries/ organisers would advise me not to pick up fights with everybody and my work would remain unsold. Later, no gallery was ready to show my works. Even in London, they never allowed me to meet art critics. My argument was simple, you cannot understand art by reading about it. You have to get involved. 
 
 Your take on development
 
 There is nobody in ‘Hindustan’ who has crossed 12 years mentally. In our country, kids are being given certificates to become barristers and judges and all that. But real ‘vikas’ (development) can happen only through art. Otherwise, you just survive by taking certificates and doing mundane jobs. People continue fearing death and want to be secure. But in life there is no security any ways. I do whatever I feel. Society thinks just about your utility. You are good husband, a good worker. Society works on rationalisation which is very non-sense.
 
 With degrees, how do you gain knowledge, discipline? 
 
 Discipline comes from experience. It comes from humility and courtesy. One kid pushes another, you term it indiscipline. But there is also love in this act. Respect each individuality. Risk everything to explore. Look and you will learn. I think every kid in the country should be taught music. Grammar of Hindustani music is great. Even a ‘tanpura’ will give you discipline. It will make you a nice human being. I have spent nearly Rs 5 lakh and have a collection of over 5,000 records. Unfortunately, my gurus did not teach me music. As kids, we used to travel on horses to listen to music in nearby villages, often crossing forests.
 
 What are you planning next?
 
  I don’t work because I want to become some great artist and earn a big name in the art world. I just work at my studio in Jaipur and will continue to work. 
 
 
