MOHALI: The Class X student who committed suicide at her house in Mullanpur on Sunday had wished to quit her studies a few months back, but agreed to continue after parents told her that they would get her married.

 Her father   and mother Seema Devi told TOI that they only wanted their daughter, Preeti, 17, to be highly qualified and independent. “If we had known that she would succumb to the academic pressure, we would have allowed her to stop studying,” the two said.
 
 “She was a very gentle girl. When she told us she wanted to quit studies, we replied in that case we will have to get her married. She then agreed to continue with her studies. She never showed any suicidal symptoms. Her school teachers too did not find her behaviour odd or dangerous,” said her mother.
 
 Her father said, “She did not get good marks in Class IX, but we got extra coaching for her and persuaded her to continue with Class X. As I am just a Class II pass-out and illiterate, I never wanted her to be like me. But we never thought that she would take such a step.”
 
 On Sunday evening, Preeti returned from her tuition class, cooked food, had dinner and then retired to her room. Her mother said she heard Preeti call her and when she reached her room, she found froth coming out of her mouth. “Before she fell unconscious, she just said ‘mujhe padhna nahin hai’,” said Seema Devi.
 
 Preeti was the eldest amongst four children. Her father said their other three children, Pinky (15),   (12) and   (10) now feel they will study hard as their elder sister also wanted them to get educated and do some professional courses.
 
 Her parents said they would try to counsel depressed children and help them come out of their fear so that they can save some lives in the memory of their daughter. Seema Devi, mother of Preeti, said, “We will try to save the lives of such children who tend to go into depression. We will try to counsel them so that they do not end their lives like our daughter did. If we are able to save one life, we will think that we have saved Preeti.”
 
 BOX
 
 Managed accounts of father’s dairy business
 
 Munna Lal said Preeti had completed a computer course and was managing the accounts of his three dairies and seed business. He had also purchased a computer for her, on which she used to make data entries of his daily business transactions. “She had completed the computer course last year. She also undertook a henna application course. Such was her mastery over the art that people in our locality invited her for festivals and marriages to apply mehendi on their hands. She even started making money out of it. She offered me her earnings but I told her to save it.” Recently, her parents had bought her a scooter.
 
 
