BHOPAL: Electricity worth a staggering Rs 4,000 crore is either stolen or   in the state every year, sources said. Distribution losses are actually the power supplied, but not billed. Or, to put it simply, no revenue is generated for that power. 

 Officials, however, claim things are improving and losses have significantly reduced from 40-45% to an average of 25%, something experts are not in agreement with. 
 
 
  
 
 Going by figures in terms of units of power loss, a whopping 14,708 million units power were lost in distribution losses in 2016-17 as per annual revenue requirement (ARR) the three discoms filed before the watchdog —Madhya Pradesh Electricity Eegulatory Committee (MPERC) watchdog MPERC. The same ARR says that cost of supply for one unit of power comes to Rs 6.31 per unit. Even by conservative estimate of Rs 3 per unit as cost of power, it works out to Rs 4412 crore, sources said. 
 
 Experts say if losses are reduced, there will hardly be any requirement to hike power tariff and burden consumers with it. For example, the revenue loss of only Rs 1,00 crore has been projected by discoms in next financial year and to bridge the gap, a power tariff hike of 4% has been sought, even if 50% of distribution losses are plugged, discoms will be revenue-surplus instead of being revenue deficit, say sources.
 
 As per official records, revenue losses for 2016-17 are 22.5% for East discom, 36.15% for Central discom, the company that supplies power in  , too, and 17.87% for West discom. 
 
 Of this, Central discom alone contributed to Rs 2090 crore worth distribution losses. 
 
 Officials, however, stress it does not impact the tariff directly as the MPERC only considers normative losses ( the losses allowed by regulatory body), which it had directed in past, but if plugged, will definitely bring discoms in profit and thus chances of further increase in power tariff will be minimised.
 
 “Things have improved from 40-45% distribution losses. Now, average losses are around 25%. We are working on various fronts and co-operation from all spheres is required to bring it further down. As of now, we identify areas, where maximum distribution losses are reported, then work on it. Technical issues, like changing equipment, feeder separation if it is not there is done and then power theft is also checked,” Madhya Pradesh Power Management Company Limited MD Sanjay Shukla told TOI. 
 
 Of the losses, 8-10% can be termed as technical losses, but the remaining can be plugged and discoms are working on it. Year on year, there has been decrease in losses, an official said.
 
 
