With India being the flavour of the season, the latest to join the league of celebrities who holidayed in India are actor and writer   of TV series ' ' and 'Boardwalk Empire' fame and his producer wife  . The duo were on a two-day visit to Varanasi. We caught up with the celebrity couple at Bharat Mata Mandir as they listened to their guide Ranjeet Pandey, narrating the story behind this unique temple. "India is a very special experience for us," said Nic. 

  
  Nic and Teale at the Bharat Mata Mandir in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
  
  A picture that Nic posted on Instagram of him and Teale at the   in Agra (BCCL) 
 
  
  ‘I’m not sure this picture captures how scared I was when this gentleman gave me his Cobra in a basket,’ wrote Nic Novicki on Instagram (BCCL) 
 
 
 Nic added, "We love travelling a lot and have been to many places in the world, but we’ve never seen something like India. This is our maiden visit and I should say, we are quite taken in by the beauty of the places we have been to." Before coming to Varanasi, the couple had been to Delhi, Agra and Jaipur. "We enjoyed every moment of our sightseeing in India. The people are so welcoming and accommodating here,” said Nic.
 While in Varanasi, the couple made the most of their stay in the city. They enjoyed the boat ride, Ganga aarti and explored the old city area. “Banaras has a strong spiritual feel that comes to you really strongly while going for the boat ride. It was really amazing to see people performing rituals on the banks, early in the morning. We really had a good time and even posed with one of the sadhus who was really delighted to get himself clicked with us," said Teale with a smile. 
 It is not only the sights and sounds of India that was liked by Nic and Teale, they loved Indian food as well. "Though we have had Indian food back home in the US, nothing tastes as good and as authentic as Indian food here, which we relished throughout our stay.   and Tandoori Chicken had us hooked," said Nic.
 The couple, however, feel that they still have to get their fill of Bollywood films. "We have heard a lot about Bollywood films but have seen only a few.   is a familiar name and have seen his films mostly," added the actor.
 — Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
