Jaipur: The ADJ court in its order acquitting all police personnel accused in the   encounter case raised many questions over the investigation carried out by senior IAS officer Rohit Kumar Singh.

 The court said that examining the evidences has proved that Rohit Kumar committee report was not only of ‘dushit prakriti (vitiated nature)’ but also the possibility of it ‘benefiting’ his wife posted with the CBI cannot be ruled out. 
 
 Quoting the Supreme Court order in PUCL Vs State of Maharashtra case, the ADJ court said that in case of encounters, it has to be kept in mind that the morale of police force is not affected by filing unnecessary criminal cases.
 
 The court said, the recommendation of Rohit Kumar Singh that the police personnel (of SOG) involved in the encounter be taken off from active field duties and be given non-active postings was unwarranted.
 
 The defence lawyers said, as per the recommendations of the committee, all the police personnel involved in the encounter were taken off from active field duty and also had to undergo judicial custody. They were also denied any financial benefits. So, it was a kind of double punishment to these personnel.
 
 Rohit Kumar Singh went out of his brief by suggesting action against police personnel. His brief was to conduct an enquiry and bring the facts before the government on the encounter and it was up to the government to take appropriate action, the court said. 
 
 The court opined that Rohit Kumar Singh committee report is totally distorted (dushit) and have no place in law, adding that the investigating officer Santhosh Kumar’s investigation was also devoid of truth, it said.
 
 Giving a clean chit to Rajendra Rathore and A K Jain, the court said, “Under political pressure from a particular caste, charges were levelled against minister Rajendra Rathore and the then ADG A K Jain.”
 
 The court pointed out that if criminals were given sanctity on the basis of caste, it is a dangerous trend not only to the society but to the whole country. “There were 11 police personnel in the SOG team which carried out the encounter. They belong to different castes and religions. So it cannot be constructed that the encounter was carried out on some caste rivalry,” said the court.
 
 “It has become a dangerous trend that when hardcore criminals who perpetuate heinous crimes after another were killed in encounter, the community on which the criminal belongs exerts political pressure and portrays the police as the criminal.” The court said, such incidents demoralize the police force besides emboldens the criminals. 
 
 
