NEW DELHI: As   nears a deal to acquire a majority stake in  , the swadeshi lobby led by the Swadesh Jagaran Manch, which is affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has raised concerns about the acquisition with support from some other trade lobby groups.

 
 “This deal is in violation of Indian laws, as FDI in ecommerce is not allowed. Not only this, the foreign entities will kill competition & flush small retailers,” SJM’s national co-convenor   tweeted. When contacted, he alleged that companies such as Flipkart and Amazon were “circumventing” FDI rules by operating the marketplace model, even as government officials contested the charge. Mahajan’s concerns have some takers within a section of the government too, although the Centre or RBI can do little to block the sale.
 
 The proposal only requires a clearance from the Competition Commission of India (CCI). But the concerns come at a time when political activity is picking up ahead of next year’s general elections. During the   regime, the BJP had opposed the decision to allow FDI in multi-brand retail, although it has not reversed the decision since coming to power four years ago.
 
 Under current rules, overseas investment is allowed in a marketplace but there a vendor cannot account for over a quarter of the sales. Already, several international investors, including Soft-Bank, Tiger Global and Tancent were shareholders in Flipkart, which is registered in Singapore.
 
 A spokesperson for the All India Online Vendors’ Association (AIOVA), which claims to have 3,500 members who are sellers on large platforms such as Flipkart and Amazon, said the community has received no communication or update on the talks. “There has been no communication from Flipkart or other parties involved in the matter. While we understand that the deal discussions are private, it leaves us in the dark as to what is the future for us on the platform. We want to get clarity on the way forward as we also need to plan accordingly.”
 
 The sellers have accused the e-commerce marketplaces of circumventing rules by giving discriminatory advantage to sister companies and customers of their B2B arms who then act as “sellers” and offer deep discounts. Such discounts not only hurt trade of offline traders but also of traders who sell online through such marketplaces, they have argued and sought government intervention
 
