GUWAHATI: Anonymous posters showing chief minister Sarbananda   as missing appeared on the walls of the   (CU) here on Thursday creating a flutter. The posters were apparently in protest against his 'silence' on the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016. The chief minister was to arrive on the campus in the afternoon to felicitate UPSC civil services exam qualifiers, but the visit was cancelled after the incident. 

 Security personnel were deployed around the campus of the varsity-erstwhile Cotton College-after the detection of the posters. Though the Cotton University Students' Union (CUSU) expressed ignorance about the matter, insiders said it may have been an act of individuals anguished over the BJP-led Union government's move to pass the Bill that seeks to grant citizenship to migrants belonging to minority communities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and  , who entered India before December 31, 2014. 
 
 As news of the cancellation of the chief minister's visit came in, the students started protesting. There was a scuffle with the police when they expressed their anguish that the chief minister was avoiding a face-off with the students and so was staying away. "We are not aware of the involvement of any student in the poster incident. But we have opposed the Bill that will push Assam into danger. We are upset with the chief minister for his stand on the Bill. The students were expecting to apprise him about the dangers of the Bill," CUSU president Mriganka Ray told TOI. He added that the students' body is not is not in favour of granting citizenship to any migrant from Bangladesh on religious lines. The Cotton campus has been the grooming ground of many a politician in the state. 
 
 While CUSU was cooperating with the government on the felicitation ceremony, its office-bearers planned to submit a memorandum to Sonowal on the sidelines of the ceremony demanding withdrawal of the Bill. "We are unhappy because the chief minister's visit was cancelled. We were eagerly waiting to meet him," added Ray.
 
 Recently, an interactive session between   and Assamese organizations based in Bengaluru was cancelled after a few Bangalore-based organizations representing the Assamese diaspora submitted memorandums opposing the Centre's move of granting citizenship to migrants. Since Assam borders Bangladesh, there are growing fears that the state could be the worst hit if the Bill comes into force. 
 
 
