MUMBAI: The   for the Gazdarbandh   in Santacruz has finally been shown the door over delays. With the project only half-done and the   reset to January next year, the Khar-Juhu belt is now staring at wading through another water-logged  .

 BMC officials said the contractor had missed several deadlines and now fresh tendering would be done. 
 
 A municipal official said that the removed contractor would also be served a show-cause notice, a first step towards blacklisting.
 
 The construction of the pumping station was to be completed in two years as stated in the contractor conditions. The work on the pumping station to be built and maintained at a cost of Rs 125 crore began in October 2014 to bring relief from   to parts of Khar, Santacruz, Andheri and Juhu. So far only around 51% of the work has been done.
 
 The contractor, Pratibha Industries, received two extensions. The BMC has decided to call for tenders anew to complete the remaining work. The estimated cost of the new contract is expected to be Rs 60 crore.
 
 “The contractor has finished only about 50% of work and is not able to complete the rest owing to financial setbacks,” an official said. “While pumps have been placed, the switch gear, the diesel generator, super screen and various other technical works are yet to be completed.”
 
 Municipal officials said in the past the contractor of the   pumping station had been given several show-cause notices, despite which the work on the pumping station progressed at a snail’s pace. The BMC had also decided to recover compensation charges for delay in deliverance of Rs 21 crore from the contractor’s running bill, said civic officials.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Vijay Singal said the new tenders were to be invited shortly at the risk and cost of the original contractor. “I have myself taken over a dozen meetings asking the contractor to complete the work. However, he once came to us asking to sublet the work to another but still there was no progress. Therefore, it has now been concluded that we shall call for fresh tenders to complete the remaining work and meanwhile a show-cause to blacklist the contractor will also be issued soon for the inconvenience to be caused to the residents of western suburbs,” Singhal said.
 
