TRICHY: Both the   schools in Trichy have achieved 100% pass percentage in the   Class XII examination results, which was declared on Saturday.

 The principals of the respective schools said that they were satisfied with the performance of the students and also said that the demand for admissions at the school for all classes combined has increased for the forthcoming academic year.
 
 A total of 84 students appeared for the CBSE Class XII exams from Kendriya Vidyalaya No.1 and the highest marks was secured by two students – Aditi Narayan and N Paramahamsan – both scored a total of 480. The school secured 100% pass percentage after a gap of three years.
 
 “Over 33 students have scored more than 400 marks and the performance by the students this year has been more than satisfying,” said principal of the school, Rahul Agarwal.
 
 He also added that the demand for admissions has been very high this year. “I think parents are looking more into admitting their children at CBSE schools. The demand for admission increases every year, but for 2018-19, we have got more than 1,000 applications for the 200 available seats,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Kendriya Vidyalaya No.2 secured 100% result for the second consecutive year. A total of 54 students appeared for the Class XII examinations and B Davis Jayabalan scored 464 marks, the highest in the school.
 
 Nineteen students scored above 400. “The special classes, which we conducted in the month of December, ensured that students who needed extra coaching in certain subjects, performed well,” said principal N Alaganthi adding that he expected at least 250 applications for 40 seats for Class XI admissions this year.
 
 Meanwhile, a few other principals of private schools also expressed that the performance by students in the CBSE exam this year has been very good. Alpha Wisdom Vidyashram school principal, M Porchelvi said, “With 42% of students scoring more than 400 marks, we are extremely happy with the results this year. A lot of students in English subject have scored really well.”
 
 Out of a total of 118, 116 students from the school cleared the exam and R P Giridharan, who was also the district topper in JEE Mains, emerged as the top performer with 485 marks.
 
 RSK Higher Secondary School’s vice-principal, Arokia Mary claimed that the overall performance of students at the school improved significantly compared to previous year. “As many as 26 students secured more than 450,” she added. Out of a total of 109 students, 107 students cleared the Class XII examinations at the school.
 
 
