CHENNAI:  , who failed to survive the I-League drop after losing 0-1 to champions   on Thursday, have asked the   ( ) for relegation immunity on Friday. 

 
 The two-time former I-League champions, who are Goa’s only representative in the league, finished ninth in the points table with 17 points from 18 matches. However, with AIFF’s developmental squad Indian Arrows, who finished last at 10th with 15 points, having relegation immunity, Churchill faced the drop. 
 
 Churchill Alemao, owner of Churchill Brothers, confirmed the development. “We spoke to top AIFF officials and asked for relegation immunity. AIFF had reinstated Aizawl FC in 2016-17 season after they were relegated in the previous season. So why cannot they have the same policy for us? Like   and East Bengal, we have invested so much in Indian football over the years. At the present moment, these three clubs are the backbone of Indian football so how can they disregard our history? Moreover, we have produced good players too and we have a decent grassroots programme with various age-groups teams,” Alemao told TOI on Friday. 
 
 Alemao’s request has put the federation in a spot. Alemao, who is a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from Goa, has a strong political connection with AIFF president Praful Patel, who is also an NCP leader. Reliable AIFF sources revealed that Alemao has been using the political link to earn the favour from the federation. “The AIFF will lose its face and I-League won’t have any significance if we are being forced to grant them immunity. We want to be a fair body. If we show bias to a particular club, other clubs will lose their trust in us. No new corporates would show interest to field their teams,” a source, on conditions of anonymity, told TOI. 
 
 The source added that since Churchill Brothers are in the business for a long time, they should understand the integrity of the league. “If an institution like Churchill has complete contempt of the rules, then it is shameful. They are not a new club. They know the rules and they must adhere to it,” the source pointed out.
 
 Alemao, on the other hand, alleged conspiracy too. “We are not relegated because of hard luck. The referees had played a crucial role. Many of our goals were disallowed and a lot of decisions went against us. In the end, those decisions cost us crucial points. If AIFF is serious about I-League then why have this kind of referees?” Alemao said.
 
