KOZHIKODE: The government has suspended   (land acquisition), T Somanathan (pending inquiry) after a news channel aired visuals of him allegedly receiving bribe to convert 4.5 acres of surplus land (micha bhoomi) into private land at Kottathara village in a sting operation conducted by the channel.

 Revenue minister   has asked the land revenue commissioner to conduct a comprehensive probe into the matter. “The culture of creating breaking news by making non-existent corruption stories should be controlled. It is an unlawful tendency that the channel ventured to encourage officials to commit corruption and we will examine that as well,” he said.
 
  
  
 On Monday morning, the channel aired the visuals of Somanathan accepting bribe allegedly for converting the surplus land in Kottathara village. The channel team had approached him and some CPI district leaders posing as businessmen who were interested in buying 19.5 acres at Kottathara village to set up a resort, which included 4.5 acres of excess land. They wanted it to be converted into private land.
 
 Kunju Mohammed, a middleman involved in the deal, is seen telling in the sting video that Rs 20 lakh must be paid as bribe to officials and politicians for this purpose. The video also shows the channel team approaching CPI Wayanad district secretary   for help and he is seen telling that he will talk to   Somanathan.
 
 Wayanad district collector S Suhas said that he has seized all files pertaining to the land and the office of the deputy collector (land acquisition) and the Mananthavady taluk land board has been sealed. He added that he had asked the Mananthavady sub-collector NSK Umesh to conduct a department-level inquiry on the allegations against the deputy collector. The collector also recorded the statements of Vythiri tahsildar and Kottathara village officer as the land in question comes under Vythiri taluk land board.
 
 Meanwhile, Vijayan Cherukara said that the report of him being part of the land deal was false and he added that the sting operation was a conspiracy to malign the CPI and the state government. He said that he will initiate legal proceedings against this false news.
 
 “The team had come to my house on February 28 in disguise saying that they were planning to set up a tourism project in Wayanad. During the conservation itself I had identified the media person and when they tried to offer money, I turned it down and asked them to leave the place,” he said at a news conference in Wayanad.
 
 
