BENGALURU:   in Bengaluru may have stalled at 45%, but   is yet to crack the whip and aggressively penalise those handing over mixed waste.

 In February 2017, the Palike made segregation of waste at source mandatory, saying violators would be fined. Additionally, it said, those who refused to pay up would have to do so along with their property tax at the end of the year. But this too didn’t materialize. 
 
 BBMP has not maintained data for the fines it has collected from those not  . Several ward level officials TOI spoke to admitted that they haven’t penalised a single offender till date.
 
 Officials from the solid waste management department said only a handful of officers in a few of the city’s 198 wards have been fining people for non-segregation. “Regulations are being enforced in areas like HSR Layout, Bommanahalli, Yelahanka, thanks to the dedication of officers. While it may be relatively easier to levy fines on those living in apartment complexes and on commercial establishments, it’s tough when it comes to individual houses. Since awareness is low, residents think the officer is ‘corrupt’ when he tries to fine them. In other cases, violators may not be at home so they don’t end up paying,” said an official.
 
 As per the rules, those who hand over mixed waste are supposed to fined Rs 100 (domestic occupiers) and Rs 500 (bulk and commercial generators). The amount increases to Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 for consequent offences, respectively.
 
 “The laws are in place and only need to be implemented. Wherever they are being enforced — places like HSR Layout, Yelahanka and Doddabommasandra — segregation levels are high,” said NS Ramakanth of the solid waste management round table. 
 
 Activists like DS Rajashekhar, president of  , believe that the corporation should increase its outreach activities. “Fining people for non-compliance is okay, but how’s the Palike supposed to monitor this? Unless they actually catch someone handing over mixed waste, they can’t fine them. They should launch a sustainable awareness programme,” Rajashekar said.
 
 However Sarfaraz Khan, joint-commissioner, health and solid waste management, said they would start collecting the fines in earnest only after all seven of the Palike’s waste processing plants are completely operational.
 
 Officer has collected Rs 3L from HSR Layout
 
 With a segregation rate of 85%, HSR Layout is one of the few wards where violators are being penalised on a regular basis. Senior health officer Vinod Govindappa claims to have racked up fines worth Rs 3 lakh till date this year.
 
 “We have not faced too many issues so far as we usually carry out our enforcement activities over the weekend when residents, most of whom work in the software industry, are at home. Some citizens oppose our move, saying that since they are bachelors or on the night shift, they are unable to segregate waste and hand it over. If they don’t segregate it, we throw the mixed waste in front of their houses or in their compounds, and I leave my phone number along with a receipt for the fine,” he said, adding that if he were to collect their mixed waste, other residents would question him. 
 
 
