NEW DELHI: Caste arithmetic and push to young leaders seemed to be the focus in  's selection of candidates for   biennial polls on March 23 for which the last date for nomination is Monday.

 The party announced 26 candidates who are confirmed to win in the polls for 58 seats. 
 
 BJP's national media chief Anil Baluni, party spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao, vice-president Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey are the office-bearers who have made it to the list. Rao has been rewarded for his work as national spokesperson and also for the fact that he comes from Andhra Pradesh, where the party is on a sticky wicket over its ally TDP's tough stand on special status to the state. Baluni has been a silent party worker and is seen as close to PM   and party chief Amit Shah. 
 
 However, one of the surprises was Narayan Rane from Maharashtra as his selection is set to intensify sniping between Shiv Sena and BJP as the two parties are on a collision course despite being allies. Rane is now the party’s most prominent Maratha face. 
 
 The party has sent across a message to its ally, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief and UP minister  , by nominating his caste leader Sakal Deep Rajbhar from UP. Om Prakash has been vocal against the BJP and the state government and a message has been sent to him that he is not the sole voice of the Rajbhar community.
 
 Nomination of  , who rejoined the BJP on Sunday, and   is an effort to making caste equations favourable for the party in assembly polls in Rajasthan this year. Meena is the strongest community leader in eastern Rajasthan and his role will be crucial in 25-30 seats in the region. His exit from the party was cited for BJP’s defeat in 2008. Saini hails from Shekhawati region and belongs to the Mali caste, the same as Congress leader Ashok Gehlot. Former SP leader Ashok Bajpai is also in the list. He recently resigned as MLC and was seen as instrumental in the resignation of other party MLCs after which CM Yogi Adityanath and his ministerial colleagues were elected to the state legislature. He is the second Brahmin after finance minister Arun Jaitley to figure in the list
 
 
