MUMBAI:  , fearing its employees may misuse the state government’s decision to ban plastic to threaten people for bribes, will announce strict guidelines for them. People have a month to dispose of plastic bags.

 BMC is forming a special team to keep a check on people using plastic bags, and it will start inspecting premises after a month and it can take action against violators. To ensure team members do not misuse their powers, BMC will publish names of officials along with the areas assigned to them for inspection. They will be given special uniforms and I-cards, and they will have to display their names on their uniforms. 
 
 Civic chief   took the decision after detailed discussions with officials.
 
 BMC has also decided to set up 20 centres near big markets across the city to collect plastic bags for recycling, and it will encourage sellers of paper-cloth bags to increase production. Civic officials said they are collecting details of paper-cloth bag-makers, which they will upload on BMC’s website. 
 
 The state government had last week announced a ban of plastic bags, cutlery and thermocol and issued a directive to the civic authorities. It also suggested fines of Rs5,000-25,000 and jail terms for violators.
 
 The   (Control) Act, 2006, had banned plastic of less than 50 microns thickness. But now, the government has banned all types of plastic, excluding water bottles and milk pouches. Officials said the government has to now amend the 2006 law to mention the fines and jail terms.
 
 BMC will conduct educational programmes with the help of NGOs, housing societies and educational institutions to create awareness among people.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis announced that the state will not revoke the ban. He told the legislative assembly that a three-member committee headed by the environment minister will be told not to take coercive action against offenders for the first three months and it will also speak to stakeholders and come up with alternatives to plastic. 
 
 The All-India Plastic Manufacturers’ Association said the ban on plastic will adversely impact the Rs 50,000-crore industry and it may take legal action if the issue is not resolved. “There is complete ambiguity on the ban issued and it will adversely impact the industry,” AIPMA president Hiten Bheda said. (With inputs from Sujit Mahamulkar)
 
 
