CHANDIGARH: Two departments of the UT administration —building branch and urban planning — are locked in a disagreement over the system to be adopted for approving building plans.

 The department of urban planning is pressing for allowing residents to start construction on basis of self-certification, which is mandatory for commercial, residential and industrial buildings, while the   wants both online building-plan approval system and self-certification to run side by side. The tussle has created confusion and put a spanner in the process of sanctioning building plans.
 
 Officials of the building branch are of the view that the online building plan approval system will help them ascertain whether architects have submitted correct building plans under self-certification or not. The building branch has written to   secretary for allowing them to run both systems simultaneously.
 
 Talking to TOI, assistant estate officer Manoj Khatri supported the contention of the building branch “How do we know that the plan submitted through self-certification is correct? There has to be a system in place to ensure plans comply with per norms,” he said. He added that the department was waiting for the response of UT finance secretary. “We are not accepting new plans till we get a reply,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, a senior official of urban planning department said that as self-certification had been made mandatory, there was no need to process building plans online. The same practice is being adopted in other states. The official said the stand of the department will be communicated to the building branch.
 
 City-based architect  , who is also the president of Chandigarh Architects Association, said there is “complete confusion” and no body knows the situation clearly. “Architects who wants to submit their plans are being asked to wait for a few days,” said Mukherjee.
 
 Umesh Batra, another architect, said the system was not working due to confusion. Under the self-certification system, owners through their registered architects have to submit a certification stating that the plan adhered to requirements as laid down under building rules, including zoning and architectural control. 
 
 The applicant will give a 15-day notice to the authorities for granting approval along with requisite fee. If the department concerned fails to convey any objection within notice period, the applicant can start construction. Launched amid much fanfare on February 8, the, online building-plan approval system is still facing teething problems and officials are unable to scrutinise the plans through the software. Applicants are being asked to manually submit a copy of the plan, so that officials can compare it with the plan uploaded online.  , an architect, said as the administration had made self-certification mandatory, there was no need for getting plans sanctioned online. “It will only make things complex,” said Joshi.
 
 
