MUMBAI: Even before construction of a new bridge in place of the British-era   has begun, a new controversy arose around it on Monday with the   boycotting the function for commencement of construction work. Congress leaders alleged that the Shiv Sena purposely kept them away from the inauguration function and plan to hold an inauguration function once again on their own on Tuesday.

 On Monday morning, the BMC had organized the inauguration function for starting work on a new bridge in place of   Bridge, demolished more than two years ago. A local Congress corporator,  , alleged she was informed about the inauguration at only around 6pm on Sunday though the function was to be held on Monday morning. “The Sena party leader (in the BMC)   was trying to take credit for having started the work even though the bridge does not fall in his ward. On Saturday itself, we realized the Sena was trying to hijack the function and even asked the BMC if the inauguration was expected to be held on Monday. But the BMC denied it.”
 
 
  
 
 Her husband,  , a former corporator added, “After informing us on Sunday evening, how do they expect us to mobilize our party workers and turn up?”
 
 The local MLA, Congress’s Amin Patel, said that they would hold the inauguration again on Tuesday. “Preparations for the event might have started 3-4 days in advance, despite which the BMC wanted to give us the invitation card on Sunday evening. We are not asking our permission be taken to hold the event, but we should at least have been informed in advance,” Patel said.
 
 Denying all allegations, Sena’s Yashwant Jadhav said the bridge was at the borders of his ward as well. “I was the one who got all the follow-up done to ensure work was initiated on time. Besides, the invitation card did mention names of all local corporators, so if they still chose to boycott the event there is little we can do about it,” he said.
 
 TIMES VIEW: That a slugfest should break out over launch of work is unfortunate. If the opposition’s allegations are true, the ruling party and BMC administration has made a mistake in informing elected representatives from other parties late. If the attempt was to hog credit, it was wrong. But the opposition’s reaction too smacks of the same approach. It should instead push BMC to ensure completed early.
 
