NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority ( ) is not in favour of clearing Delhi government’s proposal — in its current form — to buy 1,000 electric buses with the money collected from trucks as environment compensation charge. Till April, the state government had collected Rs 999 crore under this head.

 
 
  
 In its recent report to the Supreme Court, EPCA said it supported the idea of the environment cess being used for the purpose, but pointed out that Delhi government appeared not to have done sufficient research in its proposal. It also expressed wariness about the government’s track record, given it has made announcements about procuring CNG buses since 20114-15 but not fulfilled that commitment. 
 
 There are just 30 electric buses in India currently — 25 with Himachal Road Transport Corporation and five with BEST in Mumbai. Bengaluru and Hyderabad have together ordered 100 such buses, 80 for the former. Around 60 of these are 12-metre, low-floor buses of the sort that Delhi government proposes to purchase. “The experience is limited and the transition to e-vehicles has only just begun. Therefore to be ambitious and bold requires detailing so that the chance of success is improved,” the EPCA report cautioned.
 
 And this is where EPCA observed lacunae in Delhi’s proposal. In its intervention application, the state government claimed it has been awarded assistance of Rs 40 crore for 40 electric buses under the Union heavy industries ministry’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles (FAME) in India scheme, plus Rs 4 crore more for infrastructure development. The Delhi transport minister has requested the same subsidy for the remaining 960 buses under the same scheme.
 
 The government application said the cost of each   is Rs 2.5 crore, and the operator would be selected through a competitive bidding process. It added that another 905 electric buses would be inducted for last-mile Delhi Metro connectivity at Rs 50 crore. The cess funds would also be used to upgrade infrastructure at the inter-state bus terminals.
 
 However, EPCA said the information provided by Delhi government was inadequate and called an urgent meeting of the transport department, DMRC and DIMTS and the Union transport and heavy industries ministries on May 14. The heavy industries ministry informed EPCA that in the current phase of the FAME project, the funds earmarked for the 40 buses in the capital were reallocated to other cities after Delhi government failed to follow up with necessary details in its proposal. EPCA also wondered why Delhi was buying the electric bus for Rs 2.5 crore each when the same model cost Bengaluru just Rs 1.75 crore.
 
 The gross cost contract proposed by Delhi government, under which the operator is paid for running costs while the government collects the fare, has also been opted for by other cities. But Delhi’s bid price is very high, ranging from Rs 29 to Rs 70 per km. EPCA noted here that though the government will provide subsidy of up to Rs 1 crore per bus and so lower operational costs, the viability gap to be paid to the operator still remained equal to or higher than for the city’s cluster bus scheme, in which the capital costs were borne by the operator.
 
 
