MUMBAI: An 87-year-old businessman had to wage litigation for around 40 years to get back his sprawling flat in   from his tenant. The Bombay high court on Monday directed the tenant to hand over the flat within eight weeks to the businessman from Rajasthan, who had said that he wanted to move back to Mumbai with his family.

 “This is a classic case where the tenant, who is not an ordinary person but an affluent tenant engaged in several businesses, has kept away the landlord, now 87 years of age, from his only residential premises situated at Mumbai since last more than 40 years,” observed Justice  . 
 
 The judge said that despite succeeding in both the trial as well as appellate courts, the landlord had to wait all theses years to enjoy his property. The court couldn’t help but remark about how a law meant to protect tenants was turned on its head in this case. “The basic object and purpose of the rent legislation which was to protect the weaker sections of the community, namely the tenants, against unreasonable eviction and against being charged with excessive rent and consequently to bring about an equilibrium in the society on the housing front, certainly remained exploited by the undeserving tenant by enjoying the premises for more than forty years, which has definitely caused severe hardship and injustice to the landlord,” said the judge.
 
 The landlord had entered into a leave and license agreement with the tenant for the 1,800 square feet flat in Park View building in Malabar Hill along with a garage for Rs 1,950 per month in 1970 as he was moving to   to take care of his family business. In 1974, the landlord issued an advocate’s notice saying the tenancy agreement was terminated and a case was filed in the small causes court after the tenant refused to vacate the flat. 
 
 The landlord had claimed that he and his wife wanted to return to Mumbai for medical reasons and their son had also been offered a job in the city. The trial court ruled in the   in 1986. In 1998, the appellate court ordered the eviction of the tenant, which was challenged by him in the high court. Both the courts had held that the landlord had proved that he had a bona fide requirement for his flat and the tenant had failed to show that he had made any efforts to acquire another property on rent. 
 
 In the high court, the tenant claimed that the landlord had properties in Dungarpur, and he and his family could avail of medical facilities and live a   there. The high court however held that the arguments about passage of time and change in circumstances as well as what the landlord should do could not be foisted on him by the tenant. 
 
 “This argument is wholly misconceived for the tenant to compare the large specialized medical facilities which are available in a metropolitan city like Mumbai to those available at Dungarpur, in the absence of any material to support this argument. Further, the tenant cannot dictate to the landlord as to the nature and quality of the medical needs, vocation which he intends to avail and for that matter occupy his only premises in Mumbai. The entire approach on the part of the tenant is a greedy approach by hook or crook retain the suit premises and to deprive legitimate requirement of the landlord,” the high court ruled.
 
 
