CHENNAI: It was close to 30 minutes since the   show ended. Yet, there was a long queue of fans waiting to meet and click a selfie with the affable comedian on stage. The ‘sakht launda’ had clearly won over the Chennai audience in his first show in the city -- at The Music Academy on March 25.

  The performance was all the more ‘special’ for the fans as they were treated to Zakir’s new punchlines and fresh content. And the 1,200-odd crowd lapped it all up, giving a standing ovation to the comic at the end of the 90-minute show. 
 
  The show saw the opening act performed by city-based comic  , who hails from Kolkata. Paul is the only   in Chennai who is well versed in Hindi and English and he used both the languages in equal measure — he explained his jokes in Hindi and threw punchlines in English — to set up the mood for the evening.
 
  From there onwards, Zakir took the show to the stratosphere.
 
 Zakir came into limelight around six years ago when he won Comedy Central’s India's Best Stand Up Comedian competition. Since then, he just kept climbing the ladder of success. What has always worked for Zakir is how he holds his audience to attention with ease. He performs uninhibitedly and uses self-depreciating humour as an asset to keep his listeners on the edge as if he is letting them in on to a big secret.
 
 During the show in Chennai too, the script didn’t deviate. Zakir narrated a piece from his adolescent days and perhaps wittingly or unintentionally indicated how he became a ‘sakht launda’ after all. When TOI caught up with him at the end of the show, Zakir said he had been trying this fresh content for his new show on the lines of the immensely popular Haq Se Single.
 
  “I was not performing in December and January and only went back on stage from mid-February. So it’s been a couple of months since I started trying this content… This is probably the ninth show where I have performed with this content. See, you have a good show when you have performed it for like 100 times. But this will take time to have that effect. It’s still an ongoing process which I am trying on stage,” Zakir told TOI.
 
  On a lot of occasions when a comic is delivering freshly baked content, there might be chances that things might go horribly wrong. For Zakir, though, the show simply went north right from the start. It is because of Zakir’s experience of knowing what works and his ability to adapt to changes which make him an instant hit with the masses.
 
 “It’s a very unique and adorable relation which I share with my audience. The faces might change as you do shows in various places but the emotions remain the same. See, it’s about how they look at me. I connect with them by being honest with my stories. Whatever I feel, I say through the form of stories. When you know the meter of your art form then your show doesn’t go wrong. The story might change and the content might be a work in progress but there is a certain standard which you maintain with your fans,” Zakir pointed out.
 
 Despite doing plenty of shows, Zakir still gets nervous on stage. It is probably because of the responsibility which he carries on his shoulders rather than his content.
 
  “I never take my audience lightly. They are very intelligent. They always know what’s in your mind. On stage, if I look tired, they get tired… If I am excited, they are also excited… If I am sad, they are sad. It’s my reactions on stage which gets reflected in the audience. It’s so beautiful to be an artist that you at times feel like the king of the world because your audience gives their emotional attorney to you. You can make them feel whatever you feel like. But it’s a huge responsibility and you have to play to it accordingly and smartly. So as a comedian, it’s very important to know your story. As an artist, you should be extremely comfortable with what you are narrating. The more honest I am to the piece, the more I connect with the people. The thread will then automatically align itself. But if I force my story, then things might fall apart,” Zakir said.
 
  The speciality of Zakir’s jokes has always been its authentic content as he recites stories from his own experiences. Zakir says he wants to become a pioneer in comedy and storytelling.
 
 “The present set of comedians is very cool people. There is hardly a difference of five to seven years among us. So our experiences have been pretty similar. Hence, it happens on a lot of occasions that two or three comedians think on the same lines. Then we drop the jokes if someone has a better punchline. The basic idea is that people should relate to our content. But then originality is something which every artist should focus on. That’s why I tend to talk about my personal experiences. I really don’t want to play to the gallery that if this other performer is doing something exciting, I will also try to be interesting. When it comes to comedy and storytelling, I want to be the pioneer of it in India. So I am trying to explore the area where nobody has ventured so far,” Zakir asserted.
 
  Unlike other comics, Zakir has never tried to give a social message through his content. However, the Music Academy audience saw him delivering one. But the comic from Indore feels that it is not important that an artist’s content has to have a social message. Similarly, he says no one can force an artist to change his content.
 
 “I hold comedy as one of the best forms of art. We are all learning and evolving. Whatever I learn and feel, I talk about it. But I am not playing to any specific cause. It’s not important that your act should have a social message. It’s up to the artist whether he wants to give a social message or not. Otherwise, there is zero importance. We all are socially responsible people and that’s why we do it. But nobody in the world can put conditions on the artist that he has to deliver some social message or any kind of message. An artist should be free to do whatever he feels like,” Zakir said.
 
  Zakir’s new content has been a smash hit and he said he is going to improvise further. So does that mean that he will not go back to his old jokes? “I cannot see the future. So I cannot promise that I will tell the tried and tested jokes in some show which I will do later this year. Whatever I find interesting, I will build my content on it. Usme sakht launda, pighla hua launda aaye… It will depend but one thing is certain, I want to make people laugh,” said Zakir.
 
