PATNA: Cloudy sky and dense fog on Wednesday evening prevented stargazers in Patna from catching a glimpse of the so-called ‘supermoon’.

 Patnaites thronged the   (SKSC) to watch the big moon through digital telescope. However, the fog and cloud played spoilsport in viewing the lunar eclipse which was to be seen in the city sky from 6.21pm to 7.37pm. A detailed presentation was screened through a projector to make the visitors aware about the lunar eclipse. However, hundreds of people participated in the ‘Selfie with the Supermoon’ event at the  .
 
 St Xavier’s College student Priyanka Singh said, “I had seen the last one on January 1, but wished to watch the phenomenon today. I can’t wait to see the photos and videos which will be released by the  . I believe seeing it with naked eyes will be a good omen. I missed this golden opportunity.”
 
 Another student,   was also annoyed with the foggy weather conditions. “I came here with my friends at 5.30pm, but unfortunately we were not able to view the supermoon. My friends from Kolkata sent me the pictures of lunar eclipse,” he said.
 
 “Through the presentation at the science centre, I have learned a lot about supermoon, blood moon and lunar eclipse. These things really fascinate me. I wish I could witness this,” said  , a Class IX student of Scholars Abode.
 
 SKSC’s education officer   said the lunar eclipse was special because supermoon (appears larger than usual in its perigee), blue moon (second full moon of the month) and blood moon (appears red during eclipse) coincided at once. During the eclipse, the moon slowly loses its brightness and takes on a reddish hue because of the way the atmosphere bends the light. As the second full moon of the month, it earned the title of a blue moon as well,” he said. The lunar eclipse started at 6.21pm and was maximum at 6.59pm.
 
 “This supermoon also happens to be the final one in a supermoon trilogy — the first two of which appeared on December 3 last year and January 1 this year. The last blue moon lunar eclipse visible in India was on December 30, 1963. Another will happen in January 2037,” said Ranjan.
 
 
