VADODARA: Amid rising temperatures, residents of several societies located behind the Makarpura state transport bus depot and   have been left high and dry by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation ( ). The societies are not getting sufficient water and, in many cases, citizens are forced to go to the nearby public taps for filling drinking water.

 Residents claim that for nearly three years now, the water pressure has gone down significantly and motors have to be used to suck water from the pipelines. Even this yields insufficient water and many rely on bore wells to take care of their needs. At times, they even depend on tankers for water supply in these areas.
 
 People claimed that there are around 20 societies facing severe water woes in the area. “After raising the issue with the VMC on multiple occasions, we were promised that the area would be connected to the water supply network from the Sindhrot supply scheme. But work on the scheme is yet to be completed,” said Himanshu Thakkar, a resident of Vaikunthdham Society in the area.
 
 Suresh Palamel, a resident of  , who also heads the  , said that the problem has become more acute in the last few months. “Many are forced to buy costly reverse osmosis water purifiers as they have to use borewell water for drinking purposes too,” he added. Palamel pointed out that those wanting fresh VMC drinking water have to walk to a public tap.
 
 VMC officials said the societies were on the tail end of the water supply network and attempts were being made to resolve the issue for now by overhauling the existing water pumps. “We will be trying the overhauled system and this should bring some respite. The Sindhrot facility will take some time in coming up. The water supply network is ready, but the work on plant is still in progress,” said an official.
 
 The Sindhrot water supply scheme must be completed without any delay as the water demand will only increase as summer peaks. Though, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) supplies water in sufficient quantity to most parts, there are some pockets that are going dry. Complaints regarding water supply remain a reality. A part of the problem lies in the network which is ageing and not sufficient for the present population in some places. Wastage of water is also responsible for the situation which has forced the civic body to consider metered supply.
 
 
