NAVI MUMBAI:   is a frontrunner in construction activity but the state lacks a policy to identify sand reaches. This has been revealed in a study of 14 states conducted by the Centre on existing sand mining practice.

 The Centre had set up a committee to study the existing system of sand mining in various states and to prepare sand mining guidelines to address the issue of skyrocketing prices of sand and to evolve a uniform policy to contain irregularities as prevent cartelisation.
 
 
 These are draft recommendations after a study was conducted by the Union mines ministry.
 
 Unchecked sand mining has caused much harm to nature and ecology, a concern raised by greens. This is largely because the state government has not identified sand blocks and not done enough to have them auctioned scientifically. The state in general and the   in particular has witnessed a major surge in construction activity in recent time.
 
 Threats from the sand mafia and violence have been reported intermittently in connection with illegal mining. The study says that Maharashtra is the only state that does not have a figure for total production of river sand and its value for three fiscal years — from 2014-15 to 2016-17.
 
 The study also notes that electronic monitoring of the process of extraction of sand using CCTVs is followed in some districts while there is no electronic measurement of the sand that is extracted nor is there GPS-tracking of vehicles that transport the extracted sand. Besides, there is no data regarding stockyard level of sand availability maintained on any portal.
 
 In contrast, the report mentions that   is the only state which prepares a detailed geological report for identification of sand blocks is done by a technically qualified person.
 
 A high-level central government team that conducted the study across the country stated that Maharashtra has not conducted any assessment of demand for sand vis-à-vis the supply.
 
 The report stated that overall the state is “sand deficit”, which has led to “very high prices for sand in the state” and that it is considering a proposal for import of sand from other countries like   and  .
 
 Another observation made in the detailed report is that in Maharashtra it is not the mines and geology department that controls activitie of sand mining as is done in most states, but it is the revenue and forest department that has been entrusted with this task.
 
 The report observes: “The responsibility of sand mining in most of the states is with the department which is competent of handling the challenges of the mining industry. The disadvantage of not having the control with the mining department is [that] the staff in other departments are not well- versed with mining and consequently gap is there between the regulating body and those taking care of operations.”
 
