My husband and I had gone for a movie. He got me a tub of mixed popcorn. As soon as I picked some, I looked at him angrily and said, "Don't you know I don't like too much of caramel in it. You don't even remember this small thing. I don't think you love me anymore."

 On our last Valentine's day, I asked my husband to take me out for a dinner and celebrate it the way all of my friends on 'Facebook' were doing it. He laughed at my request and said it is difficult to manage on a working day but he would try.I waited for him for a long time but unfortunately he could not return home on time. I cried my heart out and said, "You don't have time for me even on the day of love. I don't think you love me anymore."
 
 One day, I had to do some shopping. He told me that he would meet me directly at the shopping centre after office. Like always, he got stuck with office work and I kept waiting for him. I got so angry that day, I called him and shouted, "Nothing is more important to you than your work. I am never your priority. I don't think you love me anymore."
 
 And there were various such incidents in our daily life where I would keep telling him that he does not love me anymore. He would always smile and say I need to grow up and see the bigger picture.
 
 On one working day, I suddenly started feeling very sick. I checked my temperature and it read 104 degrees. I immediately called my husband and said something is wrong with me.
 
 I often get cough, cold and fever but this time it felt different. He immediately rushed home and took me to a doctor. The doctor advised me to undergo many tests and gave some basic medicines to control the fever. The reports were to come the next day.
 
 That entire night I felt as if I was lying on a burning pyre. My husband kept washing my head, rubbing my hands and legs, and kept checking my temperature. The entire night I laid in his arms like a small baby. I even vomited over him, but he just smiled and said, "Don't worry, you will be fine soon."
 
 By the next morning, I started feeling too dizzy. I kept telling him to switch on the lights as everything looked too dark. My reports came, it said 'Dengue'.
 
 I was rushed to the hospital. The next 10 days of my hospital life was like a nightmare with nearly 50 bottles of saline pushed into my veins, morning and evening blood tests, scans and news of people dying with dengue in every corner of the hospital.
 
 Amidst all this unpleasantness, the only motivational factor around me was my husband. Everytime I looked at him, he would smile, hold my hand and say, "Don't worry, I am there." He did not leave the hospital room for ten days and stayed with me all the time. Though the nurses took good care of me but he always insisted on feeding me on his own. He is the kind of person who can't get up with ten alarms but during those ten days, even if I would turn sides on my bed, he would immediately get up and check if I am okay. Sometimes I found him sitting by my bedside and murmuring some prayers. I collapsed in his arms twice. But before fainting, I clearly remember his scared face. And after coming to consciousness, I still remember his relieved face. With tears rolling down his cheeks, he hugged me hard and said, "Please, don't ever go."
 
 While lying on bed for many days. I always looked at him, smiled and thought, "How much more can someone love me?"
 
 Well, gone are those tough days. I am back to normal. My husband still forgets my favourites, keeps me waiting but the only difference is I don't tell him anymore that he does not love me!
 
 - By Shringi Shrivastava
 
