MOHALI: A local court on Saturday issued arrest   against Lt Col Baljit Singh Sandhu (retd), the chairman of immigration consultancy company WWICS and owner of Forest Hill Golf and Country Club in Nayagaon, in the CTU employee death case.

 The police had called Sandhu for questioning following the disclosure statement of the three accused arrested in the case, but he is yet to join the probe.   was found dead on March 25 after he had gone missing on March 13.
 
 Sources said Sandhu was absconding and despite summoning him for recording his statement under Section 160 of CrPC, he has failed to appear before the police.
 
 A senior police officer said, “We have got the arrest warrants against Sandhu. A massive search operation has been launched to arrest him. Police are raiding his suspected hideouts.” Police said the house of Sandhu in Sector 10, Chandigarh, as well as in Sector 69, Mohali, have been raided. However, police did not find him
 
 On Saturday, a local court extended the police remand of the three accused in the case by three days. Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand have been charged under Sections 302, 201 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Police said the special investigation team (SIT) headed by IG (crime)   would recreate the scene accompanying the three accused at the STP tank at the resort as well as take them on the route they followed to dispose of the body on the Pinjore-Baddi road.
 
 
 
 After the police arrested the three accused when they were returning after allegedly dumping the body of Abhishek Guleria at a forest area on the Pinjore-Baddi road near Basol village on March 25, they told police “they had disposed of the body at the behest of Lt Col B S Sandhu (retd). Police said Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand also confessed they had fished out the body from a STP water tank inside the Forest Hill Golf and Country Club resort in Nayagaon. Police had then issued summons under Section 160 of the CrPC to Sandhu for recording his statement on March 28. 
 
 
 
 A delegation of World Wide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS) led by its director Rajiv Bajaj and advocate Raman Walia have demanded a CBI probe in the CTU employee death case. Walia said police have called Sandhu for questioning based upon the statement of the three arrested accused without recording their statement under Section 164 of the CrPC. Walia said, “We demand a fair probe from either CBI or any independent agency headed by a retired DGP of   or Himachal Pradesh Police. We doubt the working of the Punjab Police. The victim was not known to any of our office-bearers and was not employed with us at any juncture, directly or indirectly.”
 
 
