PANAJI: This year’s cashew season is expected to be bleak, as weather parameters have not been in favour of the crop, experts say. 

 “The cashew crop is suffering in farmers’ fields all over the state,” said a fruit scientist at the Goa-based ICAR-Central  . “The yield this year may only be 60% of the usual, which will be a big blow to farmers.” He said that this year may see the cashew harvest at just 15 to 17 metric tones, down from 26 last year. 
 
 He attributed the reasons for the same to sudden rain and cloudy weather when the crops were flowering. Dull weather results in the blackening of the flowers or the eruption of fungus, which then affects the final yield. 
 
 TOI has earlier reported how the sudden downpours in Panaji and other parts of North Goa due to depression in the   has impacted the state’s agricultural sector. Cashew farmers feared that the crops which had started flowering in orchards would be susceptible to catching fungus, the paper had reported. 
 
 “The erratic weather pattern has delivered a major blow to our crops,” said cashew farmer  . “There is dew due to mist in the morning and extreme heat in the afternoon. Of all my crops, only 30% may yield some results, while the rest are lost.” 
 
 Attacks by insects and pests have made things worse, said director of agriculture  . “There have been reports by farmers of attacks by the tea mosquito bug, which has led to the further decline of full fruition of the cashew crop this season,” he said. “There will therefore be a noticeably lower production this time compared to previous years.” 
 
 On the other hand, experts from the ICAR-CCARI in   said that the ‘Goa cashew-2’ variety of the fruit developed by them hasn’t been hit by these weather parameters.
 
 “It is a pure quality cashew. Some farmers have grown this variety in the Gaondongrim region of  ,” said its director,  . “The flowering time of this variety is earlier than the regular Goan cashew varieties. This way, they were already in the stage of fruition when the sudden rain took place. They remained unaffected as a result.”
 
 
