Bengaluru:   is planning to redeploy 30% of its workforce in its global technology services (GTS) division, The Register reported on Thursday. This could have a significant impact on IBM's Indian workforce. India is learnt to have over 35,000 people in GTS, making it one of the largest employee bases for IBM's GTS segment. 

 GTS is the backbone that runs critical infrastructure and systems. GTS in India has taken centre-stage in the global operations, offering a spectrum of services cutting across business lines including data centre, cloud, network, IBM security and desktop outsourcing. The centre has grown to so much prominence that  , senior vice president for IBM Global Technology Services, makes several trips to Bengaluru every year and at one point the company was even contemplating to make India its GTS headquarters. Vikram Nagi, VP GTS, India client innovation centres, leads the team in  . IBM’s annual report showed that technology services and cloud platforms contributed $25 billion in the nine months ended September 2017.
 
 The Register report said that IBM had roped in Bain & Company to create a roadmap for GTS. “In an internal document distributed among senior execs, IBM revealed how it would “transform our service delivery model” in the year ahead with “30 per cent of SD&T (service delivery and technology) to be productively redeployed in 2018”, suggesting the total global GTS workforce is 103,000,” the report said. The report said openings created by attrition would not be filled up, and many would be redeployed into other parts of IBM.
 
 A deck attached in the report details how 30,900 employees, including 10,900 from the domestic (US market) and 20,000 across the globe in client innovation centres, were mentioned as a part of the headcount impact of 2018 actions. Tom Reuner, SVP of intelligent automation and IT services at IT consulting firm HfS Research, said unsubstantiated reports that IBM’s GTS division is planning significant shifts and cuts in its workforce is a sobering reminder that the industry continues to undergo a fundamental shift, predominantly on two fronts: the end of large-scale outsourcing contracts and the shift away from labour arbitrage to automation. "IBM’s transformation is a long and painful process with no clear end in sight as yet. Yet, it would be careless to underestimate IBM’s capability to finally come out stronger at the end of the tunnel,” he said.
 
