NEW DELHI: From Wednesday, a person landing at   ( ) will be able to get the   about his   or   on his  . 

 All he will have to do is scan the   hanging on the headrest of the driver’s seat with Delhi Police’s revamped  .
 
 The emergency mobile application, now called Himmat Plus, was launched on Tuesday by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and police commissioner Amulya Patnaik. The app will also ensure that the rides are tracked by the police. Patnaik said a database of 3,000 auto, e-rickshaw and taxi drivers had been prepared and a unique QR code assigned to each of them.
 
 According to special commissioner Sanjay Baniwal, the database contains the photo of the driver along with his address and mobile phone number. “It will be visible after the user scans the code,” he said, adding that the vehicle’s registration details and those of the owner of the vehicle can also be accessed by the commuter.
 
 The project was started on a pilot basis in June 2017 in select cabs operating around the airport, and was extended to autos and e-rickshaws. Now, the facility is operational at Vishwavidyalya, Nehru Place, Saket, Anand Vihar and Hauz Khas metro stations.
 
 DCP (IGI Airport) Sanjay Bhatia said that when the user presses the ‘report journey’ button, it sends the location with the driver’s unique ID to the Himmat dashboard working at Himmat stations at the police headquarters. Teams of police personnel will track the ride and send a message to the commuter every five minutes to ensure his safety.
 
 If driver is not registered, the user will receive a pop-up notification on the application, saying ‘Driver is not registered with Delhi Police’. In such a case, the passenger can call the control room or press the SOS button of the application, Bhatia said.
 
 The QR code can be used even without the mobile application or an internet connection. The commuter can send the unique ID number, which will be available along with the code, to 9223166166 through an SMS. Cops at Himmat stations will then stay in touch with him through text messages. 
 
 
