MUMBAI: Rejecting bail pleas of   Ltd   Ravi Bhandari and Ramesh Govani, a sessions   refuted their defence that they were unaware of   of partners of 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro eateries.

 The prosecution had alleged that the partners had illegally constructed a wall between the two premises, blocked the escape way, committed illegality without taking precautions for the safety of customers, and thereby caused the 14 deaths in the fire on December 29. The terrace where the hotels stood was given on leave and licence by the directors.
 
  
  
 Pointing out to this, the court reasoned that “it is not disputed that both hotels are adjacent to one another and on the opposite side of the hotel the office of both applicants is on the same floor. Thus, prima facie it cannot be said that the applicants were unaware about the activities of the owners”. 
 
 On Friday, the court rejected bail pleas of nine other accused in the mills fire case too. Among them were Mojo’s Bistro directors Yug Tuli and Yug Pathak and 1Above’s owners Kripesh and Jigar Sanghavi and Abhijeet Mankar. Rejecting their pleas, the court said it appeared they violated every civic law. “The applicants had blocked the fire exit by storing articles. The fire safety mechanism was not in place. It was mandatory to keep the terrace open. But they constructed the shed, which resulted in the death of customers. Both hotels were also running a hookah parlour without permission, without safety measures,” the court pointed out.
 
 Others denied bail include fire officer Rajendra Patil, Utkarsh Pandey who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro and managers of 1Above, Lisbon Lopez and Kevin Bawa. Referring to the managers, the court said since they were the most senior employees of the hotel, they were aware about unauthorized and illegal activities there. While opposing Patil’s  , the prosecution said after inspecting the hotel he gave a false report to his superior and on its basis a fire NOC was given. The court observed that it appears there was a dereliction of duty by Patil. “He was in collusion with other accused in giving a false report as it appears on record. The investigation on this aspect is yet to be completed. Thus, the applicant cannot be granted bail,” the court said.
 
 The accused have been booked under charges that carry a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail.
 
 
