There was a six year   before they got married and they’ve just celebrated 25 years of that union, yet when you see director-actor   and his wife  , their playful camaraderie and deep understanding of each other’s needs comes across as refreshingly fresh. The key to that, says, Ramesh, is their friendship. Over lunch, during which the couple shared their meal and dessert to ensure that they were not cheating too much on their diet, we discussed what keeps them going and their mantra for a happy married life, among others. 

 
 
  I have a list; I am not sure if she has one too. All the things that I don’t have in me, especially with regard to my weak points, she makes up for them. There are so many times when I have wished that I could be like her. That’s what makes us such a lovely pair
 She is extremely active, on-the-go all the time, so much so that I have never really seen her laze around. She is an amazing cook. Every day in all these years, when you come back home, there is a great meal waiting for you. She is very efficient and handles everything at home, including my accounts, which allows me to focus on my work and nothing else.
 Most importantly, she has an amazing sense of humour. In fact, if she were to write dialogues for a film it would be hilarious. She comes up with such original stuff. For instance, just two days ago, out of the blue she said she wanted to apply face pack on me. I was surprised and wondered why, as she put it all over my face, and then she told me, ‘It is expiring tomorrow. I have to finish it today’.
 
 Ramesh is a man with zero negativity in his mind. He is a very peaceful guy, which works well for him and me and the kids. Of course, he is a great dad and whenever there is a problem they go to him first and not me, which is also because he is the good cop in the house.
 
 
 
 
  I have a long list, but what annoys me the most is that he never gets angry.
 
  (Nods in agreement) That can be very annoying.
 
 I would want him to react in a certain way when I say something and never get that reaction from him. I think he should get angry because that is an emotion you should experience.
 
  Not that I don’t get angry. You don’t have to shout and scream to express your anger is what I believe. You can voice your displeasure, disapproval, disappointment or whatever the case maybe. You don’t have to blow your head off, but that’s what Archana does. She doesn’t hold back. As for what annoys me about her, well, she tends to crib and be hassled after going all-out to help someone and that is not appreciated enough. Or when something doesn’t turn out the way she expects, she gets hurt easily. I don’t like that her stress levels go up for things like this.
 
 
 
 
  Twenty five years have just flown by and the foundation of our relationship is that we have been good friends. I can go to him and discuss any subject under the sun.
 
  Basically, don’t do anything stupid that you know will hurt the other person. In the first few years you will be able to figure out. Then stay away from those things that upset her. Try your best to avoid such situations. 
 
 
 
 
 Stop finding fault in each other. Once you start, there’s no end to it. You are not perfect yourself. Most importantly, when you get in to a relationship, you have to realize that it is no longer about ‘I, Me, Myself’. It is about us and we. If you can’t make that little bit of compromise, don’t get into a union like marriage. No marriage will play out exactly the way you want. Compromise is going to be inevitable, but wisdom lies in choosing the right ones. You don’t have to compromise on your basic principles that are core to you. But there are superficial elements that really don’t matter in the long run and if are going to compromise your relationship on those, that is stupidity.
 
 : I agree with Ramesh completely. There’s got to be give and take and the relationship cannot be one-sided.
 
 
 
 
