LUCKNOW: Feral stray dogs struck again in Sitapur on Friday morning and killed two children while attacking and injuring two others. The two severely injured children are undergoing treatment at Sitapur district hospital. In just four days, violent stray dogs have killed five children in Sitapur district, about 70km away from the state capital.

 
 10-year-old   of   village had gone to the fields with three more children at around 6.30am when a pack of dogs charged at them. While others managed to run away, Virendra fell and was mauled by the canines.
 
 Half-an-hour later and less than 2km away from Budhanpur, a sevenyear-old girl Geeta, a resident of Mahsinghpur locality under   police station, was also killed by dogs. Geeta had gone to the orchard to collect mangoes that had fallen overnight due to strong winds. Since the spot was less than 2km away from Budhanpur, it is suspected that the same pack had attacked Geeta.
 
 The two Friday attack spots are about 13km away from Tikari, Gurpulia and Kholia villages where three children had been mauled by stray dogs on May 1morning.
 
 Besides killing the two children, the savage dogs also attacked eight-year-old boy   of   and 10-year-old Rinki from Peerpur village on Friday morning. The two children were severely injured and are being treated at Sitapur district hospital.
 
 Villagers are planning to sit on a protest at district collectorate if the attacks continue. SHO of Khairabad police station Sachin Kumar Singh said, “10 deaths have been reported to us while the 11th has taken place under Sitapur Kotwali.” The menace is becoming uncontrollable with 11 children falling prey to stray dogs in Khairabad this year. While 11deaths have been reported, villagers maintained that at least five more children have been killed by dogs but the parents did not agree for postmortem and hence their deaths are not mentioned in police records.
 
 Dogs have attacked unarmed men too in Khairabad, particularly those who ventured out alone late. Villagers claim that the dogs started attacking human beings since a slaughter house in Khairabad shut down. “Earlier, the dogs got animal remains that were disposed in the fields near slaughter house,” said inspector Sachin Singh.
 
 Sitapur district magistrate Sheetal Verma was in Lucknow on Friday and had left behind her CUG phone. “Madam has gone to attend a meeting in Lucknow and has left her phone behind,” said her personal assistant who answered the call on Friday noon.
 
