NEW DELHI: AAP’s Delhi spokesperson, Dilip Pandey, on Thursday demanded a   inquiry and resignation of north corporation mayor Preety Agarwal for intervening in a bidding process, terming it “illegal” and “unjustified”. 

 However, refusing the allegation, Agarwal claimed that a letter produced by the   leader is “fake” and threatened to file a defamation case against the party if it doesn’t apologise for using her photos in parts of Delhi and making derogatory comments against her. 
 
 Pandey alleged that the mayor had asked the official involved in the bidding process to compromise the rules and produce documents to her before finalising the bid. 
 
 “BJP’s claim of making the three corporations corruption-free is merely an eyewash. The mayor had barged into the official’s room during the finalising of tender process and directed him to produce the documents in her room. The official had filed a complaint against Agarwal for compromising the process during the technical evaluation of the bidding process,” alleged Pandey. 
 
 BJP, he claimed, should apologise to the people of Delhi for making false promises of making the local bodies corruption-free.
 
 Welcoming AAP’s inquiry demand, the mayor said, “The allegations made by AAP are completely false. The documents produced by the AAP leader are fake and there was no intervention during any bidding process.” 
 
 Claiming that she was fully aware of the rules and was out on a routine inspection, Agarwal said, “AAP has failed to fulfil its promises and should be the one to apologise to the people of Delhi.” 
 
 Reacting to the allegations of corruption against her, the mayor claimed, “I am fighting against corruption by certain officials and have written to several agencies since May 2017. These officials are helping AAP leaders to frame false allegations against me.” 
 
 She also claimed that AAP was an anti-woman party. “(Arvind) Kejriwal does not allow representation of women in his party and he is maligning my image to weaken the women leadership in Delhi. The poster put up by AAP against me is part of Kejriwal’s strategy to dissuade women from coming in the front line of politics,” the north corporation mayor said.
 
 
