Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has upheld the Rs 10.22 lakh compensation awarded to the parents of a man who died in a road accident involving a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus seventeen years ago. Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal (Tenkasi) in Tirunelveli district had awarded the amount to the couple 12 years ago but this was challenged by the TNSTC.  Dismissing the appeal filed by the transport corporation, the court on Monday asked TNSTC to disburse the amount to Pathamuthu (mother) and Abbas Mydeen (father) of the victim, Abdul Aziz, who was 32 when the accident happened.  On May 9, 2001, Abdul Aziz was riding his moped near Kadayanallur when a bus belonging to the corporation hit him. The man sustained serious injuries and died in a hospital subsequently. Seeking Rs 15 lakh as compensation, the parents moved the Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal. The tribunal took into consideration the oral and documentary evidences furnished by the parties and awarded Rs 10.22 lakh as compensation. Aggrieved at the award, the transport corporation represented by its managing director went in appeal claiming that the deceased was negligent in driving his moped and that the corporation was not liable to pay any compensation. It also submitted that since the deceased had died as a bachelor, the age of the claimants could have been taken into consideration for awarding compensation. Counsel of the claimants argued that in view of the Supreme Court judgment in National Insurance company versus Pranay Sethi, only age of the deceased should be taken into consideration for fixing the compensation. After hearing both sides, Justice M Duraiswamy said that the tribunal had rightly taken into consideration the age of the deceased in awarding compensation. “The tribunal has fixed the deceased son’s monthly income at Rs 7,000 and his contribution to the family at Rs 4,666. The income fixed by the tribunal is very reasonable,” said the judge and dismissed the appeal.