HYDERABAD: Falaknuma police on Wednesday registered a case against  , director of 
  '
 ' in which actress   gives teasing expressions for a song linked to the life of the Prophet. The movie promo is out and this has outraged some members of the Muslim community. A case has been registered against director   and 'others' under Section 295A of IPC, which deals with deliberately hurting religious sentiments. Under this section, punishment is up to four years in jail or fine or both. 

 
 
 Priya Varrier's expressions in the song 'Manikya Malaraya Poovi' from the film, 'Odu Adaar Love', has caught the fancy of the nation so much she is being called the 'nation's crush'. Complainants said picturisation of the song, whether it was Priya Prakash Varrier, or any other was objectionable because the lyrics were linked to Prophet's life and the picturisation was inappropriate.
 
 Adnan Qamar, a Hyderabad man who went live on FB, explained that expressions were an insult to the lyrics. "It is sad the filmmaker is a Muslim and almost the entire cast is Muslim, but still what they showed in the film is objectionable,"   said in a video that has also gone viral. He also posted the lyrics of the song and the English translation for people to understand. The objection is about the expressions and not the song or lyrics. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ‘Picturisation Of Song Hurt Muslim Sentiments’
 
 The translated lyrics read: “A woman like the pearl flower her highness-Khatija Bibi in the holy City of Mecca she lived like a queen…” Pointing this out, Muzakkir Ali, who commented on Adnan Qamar’s video, agreed with him saying, “Great words, but the direction is absolutely wrong.”
 
 In a written complaint to Falaknuma police, the complainants said picturisation of the song hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community. The complaint was filed with signatures of at least 57 people, who provided their telephone numbers and addresses to police.
 
 “It is not acceptable for us to see a romantic song picturised on actors with lyrics linked to the Prophet,” Mohd Abdul, an engineering student in Hyderabad who lodged the complaint with police, told TOI . He said he had taken a liking for the song and heard it several times. “Our objection is with the picturisation. We also have no complaint against the actress or other actors,” he said.
 
 
 
 Mohd Abdul said he also contacted the Kerala police and it was they who advised him to lodge a complaint with local police in Hyderabad, if he had any objection to the song.
 
 Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Falaknuma Mohd Abdul Bari told TOI the opinion of Islamic scholars would be taken in investigating the case. “We will first get the song translated from Malayalam to Urdu and then English with language experts. If anything in the picturisation is objectionable, we may call the director and talk to him,” he said. Asked if actress Priya   too will be summoned, he said since the director is the person responsible, it would be enough to talk to him.
 “Only if necessary will we talk to the actress,” he said.
 
 
 
