
 : City students were a dejected lot on Wednesday after the mathematics exam of CBSE Class X board was rescheduled following reports of question paper leak. The board has also ordered re-examination of the Class XII economics paper. 

 With the new dates not announced yet, students were left nonplussed.
 
 Most students found the maths paper, the exam for which was held on Wednesday, easy and felt that they missed out on an opportunity to score good marks. "It was an easy paper. Most of the questions were from the prescribed NCERT textbook. I am unhappy over the decision because it was a scoring question paper," said  , who appeared in the exam from  , Guwahati. Prasir Doloi, who took the exam from KV Noonmati, said though the mathematics paper was a bit lengthy, the number of tricky questions was negligible. 
 
 Even teachers were of the view that the mathematics paper brought smiles on the faces of students. "Over 80% of the questions were from the NCERT textbook, while 20% were application-based but related to the textbook," said Rumi Goswami, a mathematics teacher at South Point School, Guwahati. 
 
 In a notification, CBSE controller of examinations KK Choudhury said the board has decided to reconduct the Class X mathematics and Class XII economics examinations to uphold the sanctity of the board examinations. "The dates for fresh examinations and other details shall be uploaded on the CBSE website within a week," said a CBSE notice.
 
 Choudhury said the CBSE has taken cognizance of certain incidents in the conduct of examinations. 
 
 Though the board hasn't come out with the dates for reconducting the two papers, sources in the CBSE said the mathematics (Class X) and economics (Class XII) papers may be reconducted after April 13, when the Class XII board exam ends as per the current schedule. "Usually, exams are reconducted after the last exam day. There may be technical difficulties in reconducting the two papers in the middle of the current schedule," said the principal of a leading CBSE school.
 
 
