In an actor’s life, there comes along that one role which grows on the audience so much that it almost becomes part of his/her identity. Raashi Khanna’s role as Varsha in the sleeper hit  , might just gone down in her filmography as that one role. The Punjabi kudi had won over the Telugu audiences previously as the witty Sri Sai Sirisha Prabhavathi in  , the bubbly Priya in   or even the quirky Bellam Sridevi in Supreme. However, it’s the beautifully flawed Varsha who has won hearts effortlessly. And that’s because she managed to get into the skin of the character like never before, reckons Raashi. “It’s hard to find characters like Varsha. After Oohalu... it took a good four years to find such a well-etched role. I’m truly blessed. I played Varsha in three stages of her life — as a teen, a young adult in college and finally, an independent woman who has come into her own. it was challenging as an actor to invest so much in the emotional scenes. I lived the role, so much so that at some point I became Varsha because I could relate so much to her. I began automatically giving my best,” reveals the actress who is on a roll now, having delivered two back to back hits. 

 Admittedly, for Raashi, playing the teen Varsha was the most difficult part. “You see, she’s 19. so she’s on that cusp between teenage and adulthood. She couldn’t be too childlike, nor could she be too mature. I honestly surprised myself though, because I didn’t expect myself to perform the way I did,” she exclaims. 
 
 That said, becoming Varsha was anything but a cakewalk, reveals Raashi. “I’d call it an emotionally draining experience. It’s easily one of the toughest characters I’ve ever played. I used to bombard   (Atluri, director) with so many questions as to why she would react the way she did in any given scene and he would always be patient enough to explain. That helped a lot.” 
 
 
 Playing a role as layered and complex as this one, and living with it for so long, has had an impact on her, says Raashi. “For starters, playing Varsha taught me how to be more patient. It’s her maturity and her non-impulsive trait that I loved most. She thinks before she does anything, unlike me in real life — there are times when I can be very impulsive as a person,” says Raashi, adding, “However, there are parts of her that are so much like the real me. For instance, the way she is when she’s in college and in love — I am exactly like that in real life. Also, she makes mistakes, understands she makes them and accepts her faults. I am not an egoistic person, so I could connect to that aspect well.” Crediting the whole team of Tholi Prema for helping her bring Varsha to life, Raashi says, “The credit for the success of my character can’t go to me alone. All of us in the team gave our hearts and souls to the film. everyone from the make-up and hair team to the costume department need to be thanked for this role and the film that I 
 will always be proud of.” 
 
