GURUGRAM: In its first hearing, the Gurugram bench of   ( ) imposed a penalty of Rs 30 lakh on an Indo-Japanese joint venture firm for advertising its project even before registering it with the authority.

 The authority, which became functional on February 4, imposed the penalty citing violations of provisions of the Real Estate (Regulations and Development) Act, 2016.
 
 Japanese conglomerate   recently formed a joint venture (JV) with Indian company   to develop real estate projects across India. The first project of the JV, Krisumi Corporation, will be an 18 million square feet venture in Gurugram. To announce this partnership and their Gurugram project, Krisumi Corporation published advertisements in two national English-language newspapers on February 26 as the first Indo-Japanese mega real estate project ‘Krisumi City Waterfall Residence, Sector 36A, Gurugram’.
 
 H-Rera took cognisance of the advertisement and found the project had not been registered with it, a violation of Section 3 (1) of the Act that carries a penalty of up to 10% of project cost. In a suo motu action, the authority issued a notice to the developer in February. In its reply, the developer mentioned it hadn’t solicited any sale or done any booking, and didn’t intend to invite buyers till the time it had received its H-Rera registration. The developer’s counsel submitted that it was true they had issued the advertisement but it was not for inviting applications for sale, but just to make prospective buyers familiar with their project. After hearing the arguments and scrutinising the documents, the three-member H-Rera penal committee, consisting of KK Khandelwal (chairman) along with Subhash Chander Kush and Samir Kumar, concluded that Krisumi Corporation had violated the Act by publishing the advertisement before getting H-Rera registration for the project.
 
 “Such violation shall not be allowed, and severe penalty will be imposed on defaulters. Therefore, the authority has decided to impose a penalty of Rs 30 lakh on the company,” said H-Rera (Gurugram) chairman K K Khandelwal in his order. A representative of Krisumi Corporation refused to speak on the issue at the H-Rera (Gurugram) office. 
 
 The next H-Rera hearing is scheduled for April 9-10.
 
 
