Gone are the days when a loose khadi kurta, a jhola, unruly hair and an overall contempt for authority were considered the defining characteristics of a campus poet. Today though, poems are not limited to the pages of a ruled book, diaries or to the final pages of a dirty class notebook. Poetry has moved to the stage, to occupy a position right next to glamorous pub performers and popular stand-up comedians.

 Chandrakant  , who is pursuing his PhD in insect ecology, says spokenword poetry is about “performing” a poem in front of an audience. Poetry slam is a subset of spoken word poetry and is generally a competition where random people from the audience are chosen as judges.
 
 But first, a bit of history for better context.
 
 Sunil S, now a government employee, says for someone coming from a college in Kerala in the 1970s, poetry was considered the fiefdom of those involved in left-wing politics. Also, to be considered a legitimate poet, it was important that one’s poems be published first by the Malayalam magazines or publication houses.
 
 “Today, it has become very easy. If you are good, you can just go online and publish your work on Facebook or on YouTube. Earlier, the struggle involved finding an audience,” says Sunil.
 
  Anand Vaidyam, a student at Flame University, fell in love with slam poetry only a year ago.
 
 “Last year, I joined a group of friends to watch a slam poetry event at Lost the Plot. We thoroughly enjoyed it and that is how I caught this bug,” says Vishwambhar, who confesses that some of his early works were awful. However, he soon learned to combine popular elements from performance art. “I loved rap and I loved good poems... slam poetry, for me, became a mixture of both,” Vishwambhar adds.
 
 But Pune’s character also helped in this revival of poetry on campuses, says Canadian   R. He settled in Jejuri in 1983 and speaks fluent Marathi. “In Jejuri, I noticed that singing Abhangs was an integral part of the rich Maharashtrian culture. This is nothing but ancient spoken word poetry,” says Patrick who considers himself a Jejuri-an.
 
 According to the expat, the glamour, colloquialism and the delightful informality of spoken word poetry have helped in reviving the culture of poetry among youngsters.
 
 “Page-poetry is sometimes mysterious and very hard to understand. This sometimes puts you off. But spoken poetry has to be understandable, otherwise, there would be no response from the audience. This use of colloquial language has helped attract people to poetry again,” says Patrick, who organises weekend meetings of enthusiasts at the Café Table Talk in Pune. He says there has been a significant increase in the number of people attending these events over the past two years.
 
 Pune Poetry Slam (PPS), organised by  , started in 2013 at a café named Cocoberry, which is no longer there, says Redican. “Before this, we only had one-off events, thanks to American poet Sarah Kay’s visit to Pune.
 
 We also had a boost from LGBT advocate 
   , who is now in New York. PPS was responsible for giving spoken word poetry an organized form. People started enjoying the slam and soon, the group started meeting every month. The rising number of members included working professionals, retired folks and as students,” says Redican, a co-founder of Bullock Cart Poetry, a production house for poetry in Pune.
 
 There are also several informal poetry groups in the city. There are Marathi, Hindi and Urdu poetry groups that perform regularly in the city. “Language is no more a barrier. In fact, social media and open mics have made sure that we don’t have to wait for an editor of a magazine to approve a poem to get it printed. Anyone who has a poem can post it online or perform it. We can be truly free and write without censorship,” said Chandrakant. Kajol Runwal, a final-year Bachelor of Economics students, is well known in the Pune slam circuit. Runwal says practice and good editing make poems meaningful and more impactful.
 
 “Last year, April was the poetry month and the challenge was to write poems every day. I wrote 30 poems in a month and that sort of made me realise the importance of writing regularly to up your game,” says Runwal.
 
 Runwal is originally from Kolhapur, but the poetry scene in Kolhapur wasn’t really what one would describe as appealing. After a few hours on the Internet, she came across Pune Poetry Slam and soon, visited the city for what would become her first open mic. It turned out to be exactly what she was looking for.
 
 After several performances in the city, Runwal was also able to work out a technique.
 
 “I make a list of 10 points about a certain topic — how it leaves an impact or perhaps where its effects are clearly felt. I then write a poem using all these observations,” says Runwal.
 
 However, she also asks newcomers to focus on the long-term, instead of looking at instant hits. “Not all days will be the same. It can get frustrating but one just has to keep working hard.”
 
 
