KOCHI: The city and its outskirts are likely to face a drinking water shortage as   municipality has locked horns with water tanker association over drawing excess well water. "Stop memo was issued two days ago to water tanker operators who were illegally drawing excessive water from 22 wells located on the banks of the Periyar," said municipal secretary  . On February 9, TOI had reported that wells in Aluva were likely to dry up if water was drawn in excess, illegally. 

 But, Ernakulam district drinking water tankers welfare association (EDDWTWA) alleged that municipality and residents were not allowing them to draw water from 18 wells on the banks of the river. Members said if authorities did nothing, it might disrupt water supply in the coming days. As many as 1,500 tankers supply water every day to flats, hotels, hospitals and malls in Kochi.
 
 "We draw 90% water from resources located on the banks of Periyar. Tankers only take water from the 48 resources approved by the district administration. We don't know why municipality issued a stop memo. We draw water from wells at Aluva, Thiruvaniyoor, Chottanikkara, Paravoor and Mulanthuruthy taluks where there is no dearth of water. But, residents oppose our trade saying it will lead to water shortage. Last year panchayat officials in Thiruvaniyoor issued a memo saying water in the panchayat belonged to them. Then collector intervened and we could draw water," said R Ramachandran, secretary of EDDWTWA.
 
 The association said water sold by Kerala Water Authority (KWA) was costly and insufficient to meet public demand in areas lacking water. "KWA charges Rs 60 for 1,000L," said Zakir, another member.
 
 Councillor Seby V Bastin said unauthorized tapping of underground water is being carried out on a commercial basis and it has disturbed the natural replenishment of river. "As per rules, water tank operators should have a proper licence from the municipality after registration. These people have none. These tankers should be painted blue and this rule too has been flouted," he said.
 
 Meanwhile   convener H Narayana Iyer said a groundwater mafia is functioning in Aluva. "Water tankers that have a capacity to hold 36,000L are illegally sourcing groundwater from our area and selling it at exorbitant rate.   pump station can supply 200 loads of water each day. Yet, people are resorting to unauthorised tapping of groundwater," he said.
 
 Earlier this month, collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla had issued a directive stating that such operators cannot collect water on a commercial basis from water bodies that are not legally approved by authorities. He had asked tahsildars and officials at underground water department to act against those violating this order.
 
 
