Nagpur: The proposed women-only city bus service by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation is as good as shelved. The NMC’s transport department has decided to divert the Rs9.60 crore received from the state government to procure 30 diesel buses for women-only service to procuring electric buses. The proposal will come up before the transport committee meeting to be held on January 19.  Transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde, however, assured that buses procured under Tejaswini fund will be used for women-only service. In May 2016, Maharashtra government had okayed plying 300 Tejaswini buses to cater to working women in cities. In the last fiscal, the government had sanctioned Rs50 crore for the project of which the NMC received Rs9.60 crore to procure 30 buses. The panel chief too had directed the department to procure 32 buses exclusively for women commuters. The department had started the procedure to procure the buses. But now the department has taken a complete U-turn and instead proposes to buy electric buses. Sources pointed out that the decision to divert the funds will be a major setback for women commuters. In the past too, the NMC had promised to start the service but did nothing on this front. TOI recently highlighted that many working women in the city travel in crowded city buses and having separate service for them during peak hours would be very helpful. There was also demand that NMC should introduce special buses on some major busy routes like Hingna, Butibori, Kamptee, Wadi and Bhandara Road. A senior official from the transport department, however, justified the move and stated that the civic body lacks funds to run diesel buses. Presently, the department is incurring Rs6 crore loss per month. If the NMC procures 32 more diesel buses, the loss will increase manifold. Hence, the change in proposal, he added. Recently, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari too had suggested the NMC to go for electric buses as it will minimize its cost of running the service. The department has also submitted a proposal to appoint a transaction advisory consultant for bioethanol/electric buses to be plied by the NMC. The department has proposed to empower the transport department to erect bus shelters instead of NMC’s traffic department. Another proposal of appointing an advertising agency will also be tabled before the panel. Along with the expenditure on purchase of electronic ticketing machines, the balance sheet of the department will also be tabled before the panel.