PUNE: Much like landmark railway stations or old shopping complexes, the   is too busy and too overwhelming for any visitor to look around the structure and feel it.

 People walk into the large campus — a minute’s walk from the railway station, with relatives all day and night, all days of the week. Some are there for a routine check-up, others have been referred to the district’s largest hospital from small towns and hamlets for surgeries.
 
 A hundred and fifty years ago, this was a small hospital — by today’s standards — built on donated land and money by the founder of one of the richest families in Indian history.  , a Baghdadi Jew, had made his money in his native Baghdad till he came to Bombay.
 
 He then tapped some   contacts, and secured lucrative contracts to trade in oil and opium with the Far East__ ports in Hong Kong and Shanghai, then also controlled by the Company.
 
 He ran into trouble with the Company, but expanded his business empire to almost all reaches of the world, and despite speaking little English, became a British citizen, and raised his children in British aristocracy.
 
 Towards the end of his life, Sassoon decided to share some of his riches with Pune and Bombay, where he had been based — he had a bungalow in what was then the   in Pune — and made so much of his fortune.
 
 He built a well-known library and a still-functional fishermen’s dock near the port in Bombay, funded a synagogue at the edge of the Pune Cantonment — Ohel  , where his ashes are also interred, and in 1867, he donated a substantial amount of money and a plot of land near the Pune Cantonment- and a small hospital of 144 beds began at the site, in either late-1867 or early-1868.
 
 That hospital began out of the building — built in classic Victorian architecture and subtle Indian elements blending in — that is still the main structure of the hospital. The main building is still the crown in the area.
 
 “But the structure is much abused, even though the building is stable and strong. They have built some silly-looking buildings around that, which have little in common with the main structure, which in itself is not large enough — just the ground floor and a floor above. The PWD is supposed to maintain the architectural heritage of structure, but they do little,” said  , an architect behind many heritage restoration projects.
 
 And in another act of what Kalamdani called the “denial” of the hospital’s status as landmark, a large water tank stands in close proximity to the building. “The tank blocks out the view of the building completely from the road. The PWD had said was that this was the only option,” he said.
 
