VADODARA: The design of the   passenger terminal hub – which will act as originating point for those boarding the   bullet train from Ahmedabad and as terminating point for those boarding the bullet train from the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai – will be based on the theme of Mahatma Gandhi’s famous Dandi March of 1930. 

 The National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited ( ) which is implementing the Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Railway Project has finalised the design of the Sabarmati passenger terminal hub. 
 
 The passenger terminal hub will be nearly 400 metres from the Sabarmati station and will be connected through a footover bridge. 
 
 It will be at this terminal that passengers from all ways - be it those using the metro which is presently under construction, those using the Indian railways or those simply coming to board the bullet train - will assemble before reaching the station area from where they will board the bullet train. 
 
 It was from the Sabarmati Ashram situated on the banks of river Sabarmati that Bapu had launched the famous Dandi March on March 12, 1930. The ashram which was home to the Mahatma from 1917 to 1930 had served as one of the main centres of the Indian freedom struggle. 
 
 Interestingly, the bullet train’s station at Sabarmati, will also carry Bapu’s imprint in form the famous ‘Charkha’ – the spinning wheel that the Mahatma used as a weapon during country’s freedom struggle. 
 
 The upper design which will provide the bird’s eye view or the aerial view of the building will reflect the symbol of ‘Charkha’. 
 
 “The rooftop will be end-to-end covered with solar panels flaunting the design of a large ‘charkha’. It will be visible in the pictures taken from the top,” confirmed Dhananjay Kumar, PRO of NHSRCL. 
 
 Like all the other seven stations that will come up in   for the project including that at Vapi, Bilimora, Surat, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand and Ahmedabad, the passenger hub at Sabarmati too will be an elevated structure.
 
 “The process for land acquisition is going on. We are trying our best to begin the construction of the passenger terminal hub in November-December. If not, we will certainly start the construction in January 2019,” he said. 
 
 
