NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority ( ) on Tuesday   amendments to   to provide   to   from the ongoing  .

 
  
  
 
 While a uniform floor area ratio (FAR) has been permitted in all shop-cum-residential plots and complexes and commercial activity allowed in basements, pubs and clubs will have to be moved out of residential areas within six months from notification of the   to meet the demand of RWAs.
 
 The amendments passed in a meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal would now be notified by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry, which will also file an affidavit in Supreme Court.
 
 The amendments may halt the sealing at local shopping complexes, but the parking clause will pose a huge hurdle in getting the revised plans sanctioned for shop-cum-residences. There are 106 local shopping complexes across the capital and most face parking problems.
 
 Local bodies will have to provide parking space for every unit. In case no plot is available, either a common parking would be developed in the vicinity or the market would be declared a pedestrian street.
 
 Parking and other infrastructure, such as water, sewage, etc, will have to be augmented by the service providing agencies. To promote parking facility, 5% additional ground coverage will be given. Rebate in levy of conversion charges and amalgamation of plots have also been introduced to incentivise parking facility within the plot.
 
 Civic officials said that there is no clarity over the ground coverage for plots. The norm for shopping-cum-residence complexes is currently 100%, which will be brought down to 75% on a par with residential plots. “As the ground coverage will decrease, owners will have to demolish a portion of their units,” said a senior south corporation official.
 
 There is no separate policy for sanctioning of building plans under the pedestrian street category and it currently comes under the regulations of residential plots. “For instance, if there is inadequate space to provide parking in Defence Colony market, then it will be declared a pedestrian street. However, the building plans will be examined under residential plot norms,” the official added.
 
 Rajinder Sharda, president of GK-I traders’ association, said, “Allowing the use of basements is a major relief for traders, but there is still confusion about conversion charges.”
 
 To mitigate environment concerns, pollution and uncontrolled growth of commercialisation of residential areas, regulatory measures have been introduced. These include restricting the entry and exit of the plot, control on placing of any outdoor airconditioning units and exhausts along public lanes and residential streets, on-street parking charges, etc.
 
 The applicable charges for conversion, additional FAR, parking, compounding, penalty, etc, will be based on the category of the locality defined for circle rates.
 
 Existing godown clusters as well as standalone ones will now be permitted with certain regulatory measures taking into consideration traffic congestion, loading and unloading facility, pollution, etc.
 
 
