The closest multi-specialty government hospital for   constituents is Victoria Hospital, 6km away. “Why don’t we have a good government hospital in Govindrajnagar? Why is this not a priority for our politicians?” asks Umashankar L, a resident of Agrahara Dasarahalli.

 
  
  
 
 The issue doesn’t figure in the poll discourse of Govindrajnagar, notwithstanding sitting   MLA Priya Krishna’s claim that he has a finger on the pulse of his constituents. “People have seen my work since 2009. Over 35,000 BPL families from here have benefited from the state government’s schemes,” the two-time MLA says.
 
 Krishna says the segment is safe, with absolutely no law and order problem. Neither is water a problem, he says, adding that the roads are in good condition too.
 
 His arch-rival,   MLC V Somanna, thinks otherwise. He says some pockets in the segment are developed due to works he had done as an MLA earlier. “Areas like Moodalapalya, Agrahara Dasarahalli and Marenahalli are pathetic. Antiincumbency is working against Krishna,” he says.
 
 Somanna too knows the constituency like the back of his hand. He had represented Binnypet, most parts of which were included in Govindrajnagar post delimitation in 2008, several times. He was also Govindrajnagar’s first MLA. Yet, the veteran has his task cut out given Krishna’s formidable reputation.
 
 This is 67-year-old Somanna’s 11th election, and 34-yearold Krishna’s third. Once described as ‘Sollillada Saradara’ (the unvanquished general), Somanna has lost once to Krishna from Govindrajnagar in a 2009 bypoll necessitated by his resignation and switchover from Congress to BJP. In 2013, Somanna lost to Krishna’s father, M Krishnappa, in neighbouring Vijaynagar.
 
 Govindrajnagar figures among Congress’ sure-win seats. The party is banking on Krishna’s connect with voters and his popularity among the numerically dominant Vokkaliga community. The Rs 1,020-crore worth Congress candidate faces no corruption charges.
 
 In contrast, BJP’s campaign was late off the blocks. When Krishna hit the campaign trail, BJP had not even decided on its candidate. Somanna wanted to contest from Hanur in Chamarajnagar district, while corporator Umesh Shetty wanted the party ticket from Govindrajnagar.
 
 “I had worked in Hanur for many years and it would have been good if the party had given me a ticket from there. (But) I abided by the party decision. Govindrajnagar is not new to me,” says Somanna.
 
 Krishna calls Somanna his political guru. “He paved the way for my political career,” he adds. “The fight is between Somanna and Congress. Not between Somanna and Priya Krishna. Victory is mine this time,” says Somanna.
 
 
