Hindi paper might be lengthy but students need not panic during the examination. Even the best of strategies can go wrong if fear grips the examinee. Students appearing in CBSE Class X examinations should prepare according to the marking scheme, Talking to TOI’s Faryal Rumi, Baidyanath Mishra, a Hindi teacher at Gyan Niketan Boy’s School, advises students to practise the rules of basic grammar to get good marks in the Hindi literature section. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 To score above 90, it is wise to devote at least two hours daily to Hindi paper. Students can take help of a guide if they don’t want to go through the entire literature section. It is quite easy to score marks in language, but only if your basics are clear. Understand the format of formal and informal letters.
 
 
 
 This is where the student’s overall percentage goes down. Each subject has its importance. Students need to understand the basic principles of ‘shabd’, ‘vyakaran’ and ‘alankar’. I have been evaluating the answer books for many years and have seen even the bright students getting less marks because of spelling mistakes. 
 
 
 
 
 If the students have thoroughly completed the literature section, they need to revise it only twice before the exam. As far as language section is consider, students need practice. Only an hour is enough to prepare the writing of letter, composition. It is better if the students solve one sample paper a day because they also need writing practice to complete the lengthy paper within three hours. Daily practice will help students to solve the paper within 2½ hours so that they get time to revise the answers.
 
 
 
 
 Don’t go for anything new at last minute. It will only make you nervous. Drink water and eat healthy food only. Talk to your parents before the exam.
 
 
 
 
 While attempting questions from unseen passages, read the passage carefully and underline important words and phrases in 15 minutes allotted to read the paper. The question paper will have no overall choice, but there will be internal choices for questions. Before writing answer for descriptive questions, write the points you will cover in your answer in the rough space and then proceed. Don’t waste too much time on questions bearing one or two marks.
 
 
