HYDERABAD: Kuwait has in principle agreed to examine positively the feasibility of waiving off penalties for overstaying Indians, who are awaiting salaries to be paid by a private company.

 About 1,800 workers have not been paid over one years salary.   assured Union minister of state for external affairs V K Singh, who visited the country, on Thursday, that the Kuwaiti cabinet will discuss the issue and come up with a decision in a month.
 
 After his meeting with the Kuwaiti ministers including Jinan Mohsin Ramadan Boushehri, Kuwaiti minister of Social Affairs and Labour, Singh met affected Indian workers and assured that the Indian government is taking up the issue of non-payment of salaries with the privately-owned Kharafi National Company. Singh’s visit to address the workers issue follows a series of TOIreports.
  
  
 At a meeting with the workers, the minister said he could give no assurance on whether the workers would get their pending salaries. "We will try to see that you get at least part of the dues. We cannot pressurize them too much or else they may not pay even that amount. We will pursue the matter legally for whatever salary dues you are supposed to get," he told workers.
 
 When a worker from   explained his predicament due to non-payment of salaries by the company,. the minister said "Wait for a month. We will take care of the penalties issue. We will also make all arrangements for you to travel back to India. That is an assurance and you should have no doubt about it," the Indian minister said much to the relief of workers.
 
 As the minister called out, workers from different states of India, including Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Harayana, Gujarat, Bihar, MP, Rajasthan, Kerala,   and other states identified themselves. The minister advised that people of each state should compile a list of their individual problems and hand them over to the Indian Embassy. More importantly, the minister asked for specific details about the agents – whether unauthorised or authorised – who sent them to Kuwait, to be given to the embassy.
 
 Some of the workers literally choked as they spoke about their suffering due to non-payment of salaries. Some spoke of them being deprived of food and having to starve. The minister said the embassy
 
 would take care of this and see that no one goes hungry. An agitated worker told the minister that no one from the embassy had come to even visit them.
 
 The minister then introduced the newly appointed ambassador   and said the ambassador would look into all issues. Singh advised the workers to remain calm and not be agitated as every country had its laws and action would be taken if their laws were broken. He reminded them that in   when workers resorted to violence, action was taken against them.
 
