What’s the fastest way to commute between   in Thane to Peninsula Business Park in Lower Parel? Six Mumbaikars got together for an experiment on Friday morning to find answers to that. In an endeavour to change the way people think about urban commuting and make cycling an everyday affair, the group participated in what is touted to be the city’s first Rush Hour Race. Three   — each on an e-bike, a hybrid cycle and a road bicycle — along with three commuters, who took a train, car and a combination of rickshaw, bus and a share cab respectively, raced against each other, during peak hours, to reach their destination. The race flagged off at 8.20 am and after 62 minutes, cyclist Jithin Mohanan emerged as the winner.

 
 Cycle
 
 62 minutes (hybrid cycle) 
 
 Nil
 The three cyclists — Jose George (on a road bicycle), Jithin Mohanan (hybrid) and   (e-bike) — were the first three to complete the journey. While the winner Jithin took 62 minutes (9.22 am) to finish the race, Mahesh completed the trip in 64 minutes (9.24 am) and Jose finished the 32-km trip in 68 minutes (9.30 am). Jithin, who works as an operations manager at a multinational confectionery company in Lower Parel, alternates between a bike and a cycle (a mountain bike) for his daily commute. Talking about his experience, he said, “I stay in   and it takes me an hour to reach my destination. It is important that people cycle to work to maintain a healthy lifestyle; it also helps beat the traffic during rush hour. My bike costs around Rs 70,000 and this one-time investment is absolutely worth it.” Added Jose, “The idea is to tell people that cycling to work is a viable option. While we still need to work on the road sense and infrastructure, it will be great if employers can encourage this habit and provide their employees with parking and shower facilities along with additional incentives.”
 
 
 Train
 
  90 minutes
 
 Rs 71 (rickshaw); Rs 20 (train ticket)
 Kanchan Pawar, a finance manager, started off with a rickshaw ride to Thane station. Generally, she opts for a share rickshaw ride or a bus as it is far cheaper. Once she reached the station, she had to walk a bit and took the 8.48 slow local train. “Since I get off at Currey Road station, I take a slow train to avoid changing trains,” she said. While it took her 48 minutes in the train, she took another 14 minutes to walk till her office and complete her journey in 90 minutes (9.50 am).
 
 
  Rickshaw-bus-share taxi
 
  180 minutes
 
 Rs 70 (rickshaw), Rs 50 (bus) and Rs 80 (share taxi)
 Chetan Suryakant Nakashe, a manager for return renewal, started off with a rickshaw and went to Thane highway to catch a bus (as it’s economical) till Sion. From there, he hailed a share cab. He said, “I had to wait for almost 15 minutes to get the cab. Once there, it took me a while to get through the traffic. I took exactly three hours to reach my destination and it was quite tiresome.”
 
 
 Car
 
  92 minutes
 
 Rs 300 including toll naka charges
 Venkatesh K, head of sales at a firm in Lower Parel, drives to work. He took the   and moved to Sion via Chembur flyover. “I take 90 minutes on an average to reach office and 120 minutes in the evening. The real traffic was near Elphinstone Road. There was a point where I overtook the e-bike, but post that it was clear that I wouldn't be able to out-race it. He scraped through the traffic, while I had to wait,” he said
 
 
 
