NEW DELHI:   will buy a 50% stake in a $44-billion refinery planned by a consortium of Indian state-run oil companies — a move that sharpens focus on the investment potential presented by the country’s growing appetite for energy, and locks in a key consumer for the world’s biggest oil producer.

 
 The two sides signed an MoU to this effect here on Wednesday on the sidelines of the 16th International Energy Forum ministerial round in the presence of oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan and his Saudi counterpart Khalid Al Falih. The deal is being backed by both the governments as they look to go beyond their traditional oil buyer-seller relationship.
 
  
  
 
 While investment details are not yet clear, the deal, once completed, will compete with Russian major Rosneft’s $10-billion acquisition of Essar group’s refinery and BP’s $7-billion deal for stake in Reliance Industries’ upstream assets for the tag of the largest foreign investment in India’s oil sector.
 
 According to the understanding reached with the consortium of IndianOil, Hindustan Petroleum and Bharat Petroleum, Saudi Aramco will supply half — or 30 million tonnes — of crude to the refinery being built in Maharashtra’s coastal district of Ratnagiri. Saudi Aramco will also be free to induct later another partner in the project from its share of equity.
 
 This investment will not be a full stop yet in India for Saudi Aramco as it is “very much interested” in entering the fuel retail market and scout for other opportunities. The Saudi move reinforces the India growth story and the positive impact of the   government’s oil sector reforms on global investors.
 
 “The reforms that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought over the last few years are nothing but a game changer. An opening (up of economy) we have never seen before. The transparency, ease of doing business, removing some of the hurdles have facilitated investment flow,” Al Falih told reporters.
 
 Saudi Arabia was known as the Opec swing maker but is jostling with the US shale industry and non-Opec players such as Russia for market share. It remained India’s biggest source of crude till 2016-17, before losing that position to Iraq. 
 
 
