GUWAHATI: Once a   candidate from Lahowal in Assam and the only private individual to mediate between the militant outfit   and the government since 1990,   Phukan has been missing for three weeks now. His disappearance comes at a time when he was negotiating a fresh proposal for the Paresh Baruah-led Ulfa (Independent) faction with the Centre with help from the interlocutor with the Naga outfit National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah), RN Ravi. 

 
 Phukan went missing on April 22 and was last seen going for a morning walk, leaving behind his two mobile phones at home. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal ordered a search unit of Assam Police to take up the case, but police are still clueless about the former national football player's whereabouts. Police are focussing on the kidnapping angle after his son Kaushik alleged that his father might have been targetted for his efforts to bring Paresh Baruah to the negotiating table.
 
 Phukan and Baruah grew up together at the Jeraigaon Chakalibhoria village in Dibrugarh district. His first initiative to bring Ulfa to the negotiating table in 1990, during Hiteswar Saikia's iron rule that broke the outfit's backbone, ended with the surrender of hundreds of leaders and cadres. 
 
 Speaking to TOI from an undisclosed location, Baruah was almost certain that Phukan has been kidnapped. "Phukan had finished drafting a fresh peace proposal with help from RN Ravi. All that was left was taking the proposal to Prime Minister   for approval. He was in Guwahati in the first week of April to share this development with a few prominent citizens. Two weeks later, he mysteriously went missing," Baruah said. He went on, "The people with whom Phukan shared this development have told me that what this new proposal had on offer was equivalent to sovereignty (Ulfa's primary demand) and I could not have rejected it this time."
 
 This, Baruah said, makes him "certain that he has been kidnapped either by people who do not want us to engage in peace talks or by one of India's intelligence agencies - IB, RAW, MI or NIA - who have serious inter-agency rivalry among them."
 
 The last time Baruah had met Phukan was in Rangoon in 2014, when a peace proposal by IB and RAW was on the table. "I rejected it and asked him to come back with a proposal that could convince us. I am not against a dialogue, but the government should come up with a proposal that is aligned to our principle," he said. "Phukan got in touch with me over phone six months ago, saying that he was working on another proposal," he added.
 
 The peace talks had not made much progress "despite Phukan's sincere efforts", Baruah said. After the first phase of talks in 1990, Phukan went back to Baruah in 2001 when the   government returned to power under Tarun Gogoi. Baruah rejected the proposal again. 
 
 "In 2005, National Security Adviser MK Narayanan projected Mamoni Goswami to carry forward another initiative by Phukan with her former DU colleague and then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. We pulled out when the government insisted on my presence at the meeting, rather than addressing the issue," Baruah said. He added, "Phukan's services were availed once again by India when the pro-India Awami League came to power in Bangladesh in 2008. I moved out of the country but Phukan played a major role in getting chairman   and many of our top leaders." That group is now holding peace talks with the Centre under general secretary Anup Chetia's leadership. 
 
 A top police official confirmed Baruah and Phukan's meeting in Rangoon in 2014 and the telephonic contact between the two. "We are not aware of Phukan's latest peace initiative but it appears now that if he has been kidnapped, it must have been done with a well-executed premeditated plan," the official said.
 
 
