TRICHY: DMK working president and opposition leader M K   has appealed to the general public to hoist a black flag atop their house and wear black shirts during Prime Minister  's visit to Chennai on April 12. This was to express their solidarity with farmers and opposition to the Union government’s act of dishonouring the Supreme Court's order to constitute the   Management Board.

 Stalin was in Thanjavur as part of the Cauvery rescue padayatra which he began at Mukkombu in Trichy on Saturday. On the second day of the programme, Stalin passed through Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur while Ariyalur and Perambalur would be covered on Monday. Resuming the march in Thanjavur on Sunday, he interacted with farmers and villagers. Addressing the public at Sillathur village near Orathanadu, Stalin said that it was decided at the all party meeting unanimously to show black flags to the Prime Minister when he arrived in Chennai on April 12 (to inaugurate the Defence Exhibition). 
 
 “It is learnt that the Prime Minister has decided to reach the venue by air and skip road travel after landing at the Chennai airport to avoid the protesters. However, at any cost, the protest will be held as per the plan. Moreover, to show our solidarity with the farmers and opposition to the Prime Minister, I request you all to wear a black dress and hoist a black flag atop your houses,” he said. DMK had staged a number of protests in the past for various causes. However, the protest organised for Cauvery was a huge success as it was attended by thousands of students, youths, doctors, bank employees and private employees who joined it spontaneously, he said. “After the arrest during the protest, police let them go in the evening as they could not find places to lodge 10 lakh protesters who were detained across the state,” he said.
 
 “However, the same police have booked cases against me and some other leaders under various sections. We never care about cases and actions. It is not just a month or a year, I am ready to spend my entire life in prison for the sake of Cauvery", he further claimed.
 
 
