Ludhiana: Where officials are blaming the irregular instalment of GST for the poor financial condition of what was once considered to be the richest MC of the state, they seem to be showing negligence towards policies and revenue resources which could help them fight this situation. Almost a month has passed to the notification of Punjab municipal outdoor advertisement policy, the civic officials could not draft the bylaws and bring the policy in the MC general house. The routine recovery drives are not being followed by officials, which is yet another cause of their poor financial status.

 Advertisements can be a major source of income for the department, and even as the advertisement policy has been notified by the local bodies department, officials are yet to get the policy implemented. The MC has been given two months time for implementation, but even after the passing of one month, officials are still groping in the dark.
 
 Meanwhile, sources revealed that mayor Balkar Sandhu was reluctant to fix the house meeting, first because of the financial status of the department, and second, because there were chances the advertisement policy might get opposed by councillors, and even MLAs. For the past five years, MC was unable to generate adequate income from this source, which used to be a viable option of revenue some years ago.
 
 Similarly, even the parking policy and water meter policies are pending. The parking policy has also been notified, but officials are moving at a snail’s pace because they have time until the end of August. For the water meter policy too, officials are preparing their comments, but it is yet to be notified at the government level. Though in the houses where MC has laid down water pipelines under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut), meters have already been installed, water tariff is yet to be decided.
 
 However, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they would put the policy in front of all the house members as soon as the house meeting takes place, and the rest of the policies would also be implemented gradually. Regarding the water meter policy, he said in all Amrut towns, this policy had to be implemented at any cost. Meanwhile, the mayor said he would call the house meeting at short notice, and important decisions regarding revenue generation would be taken up. 
 
 
