SHAHKOT (JALANDHAR): Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday announced   Singh   as its candidate for Jalandhar’s Shahkot assembly constituency, byelection of which was triggered by the passing away of Naib’s father Ajit Singh Kohar.

 Announcing the candidature, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal also gave a jolt to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by inducting its 2017 assembly election candidate Dr Amarjit Singh Thind into the party fold.
 
 The announcement of Naib’s candidature was made at a public meeting organized to induct Dr Thind into SAD at Mehatpur. By his induction, Akali Dal has also sought to balance the community equations as Thind comes from   community, which has sizeable presence in the constituency.
 
 Sukhbir showered praises on the Kohar family and asked people that real tribute to the late Akali leader would be the victory of his son from the constituency.
 
 “It (Shahkot) is a Panthic territory. You should work for the party fearlessly and we shall ensure that nobody can cause you any harm,” he said.
 
 He also praised Dr Thind for bucking the trend of joining the party in power. Dr Thind had finished third in the Shahkot constituency in 2017 by securing over 40,000 votes.
 
 Shahkot is a SAD bastion. The   victory in 1992, when   boycotted the polls, was the only exception in the last four decades.
 
 ‘Simultaneous Parliament, assembly polls’
 
 Sukhbir Singh Badal claimed that tenure of Captain Amarinder Singh government would be cut short as the Parliamentary and assembly elections would be held together next year as Prime Minister Narendra had decided about it. “Prime Minster   saab has decided to hold Parliament and assembly elections together in the entire country. They have majority in the   and they are in power in 20 states. The Election Commission of India has also mentioned it (holding the elections together), and after one year, polls would be held and the Congress rule is only for a year,” he said, while trying to convince the people that they should ensure victory of the SAD in the bypoll.
 
 
