NEW DELHI: US Department of State today expressed concerns over the arrest of 29 women after they appeared in public without a headscarf as protests against the dress code enforced by the country's regime and said that Tehran's clampdown “undermines protesters’ autonomy and dignity”.

 
  The White House condemnation Iran’s handling of the nation-wide protests, which began in December last year, has been met with skepticism in Tehran which has accused the former of interfering in its internal matters.
 
  "The United States supports the people of   who are protesting against women being forced to wear the hijab. The United States remains steadfast in our support for the rights to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and peaceful assembly," US States Department spokesperson Heather Nauert said in a tweet.
 
  
  
 Iran has arrested 29 women in the last few days for appearing in public without a headscarf as protests against the dress code in force since the Islamic revolution of 1979 intensify, Iranian media reported.
 
  The protests were dismissed as "trivial" and "childish" moves possibly incited by foreigners by chief prosecutor Mohammad Jafar Montazeri.
 
  This was not the first time that Iran has alleged the involvement of a foreign hand behind the nation-wide protests taking place in the country against corruption and a failing economy.
 
  On Thursday, country's President   had lashed out at the US for showing "fake sympathy" towards the Iranian people.
 
  "The White House shows fake sympathy toward Iranian people while confiscating their assets and even preventing their access to medicine for years. They are not fooling anyone," he had said while addressing a gathering in Iran's city of Sirjan.
 
  
  
 
  On January 9, Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah   had blamed the United States and Israel for inciting the December 28 anti-government protests that have engulfed different parts of the country.
 
  The ISNA agency quoted the leader as saying that the plot for the recent unrest in Iran was being done by the US and Israel.
 
  "The money for carrying out the plot was provided by Saudi, one of the rich states in the Persian Gulf region," Khamenei said.
 
 On December 28, protests began in the Iranian city of Mashhad over economic issues and corruption, and soon spread to other parts of the country. The Iranian government moved in swiftly and arrested close to 1,000 protesters.
 
  Following the crackdown, US President   tweeted his support for the agitation and said that the United States is "watching very closely" for human rights violations.
 
  
  
  In the recent wave of protests, several videos of women standing on raised platforms waving their 'hijabs' (headscarf) on the end of a stick have appeared on social media.
 
  
  
  One of the protesters held a sign reading: "I love my hijab but I'm against compulsory hijab."
 
  The protests appear to mirror that of a woman who stood in Tehran's busy Enghelab (Revolution) Street in December without a headscarf and waving a white scarf on a stick.
 
  She was reportedly kept in detention for nearly a month and has since kept a low profile.
 
  Reformist lawmaker Soheila Jelodarzadeh said the protests were a reaction to the harsh policies of the past.
 
  "Once upon a time we imposed restrictions on women and put them under unnecessary pressure and that provoked these protests with women taking off their headscarves in the streets," she told ILNA.
 
  "It's the result of our mistakes."
 
