THANE: Former actor  , who hit the headlines in the sensational   murder  , is back in the news and on the run. The anti-extortion cell of Thane police crime branch has declared her an absconding accused in a Rs 15-crore   case. Four of her accomplices have been arrested for allegedly cheating businessmen of crores with the “promise of easy loans” for a commission.

 In 2011, Susairaj (35) was convicted for destroying evidence in the Grover   case (see box), a crime of passion in which the victim was murdered by a rival vying for the same woman. Susairaj had managed to secure bail after filing an appeal against the order.
 
  
 On Tuesday, cops arrested her aides Paromita Chakraborty (32), Henry Fernandes (54), Sneha aka Anita Vedphatak Deshpande (51) and Milind Kadam (51) in the cheating case. 
 
 The anti-extortion cell headed by Pradeep Sharma busted the racket after a Ghatkopar-based businessman filed a complaint saying he was duped of Rs 2.9 crore by the gang in September 2015. According to the complaint, the accused promised to get him a Rs 30 crore   loan. They allegedly prepared a fraudulent draft and said the loan would be processed after he paid them a sum as security and Rs 2.9 crore as commission. Sharma told TOI that after he repeatedly inquired with them about the loan’s status, they sent fake cops to his office, who warned him that he would be implicated in false cases. Inspector R V Kothmire said some victims were conned into parting with “commission” for   to construct buildings or hotels.
 
 “Maria and Paromita became friends when both were lodged in Byculla jail between 2010 and 2011. After getting bail, Paromita teamed up with Susairaj who was already out after serving her sentence,” said Kothmire. “Paromita and Susairaj were earlier arrested for cheating several hundred Haj pilgrims by promising them air tickets. Another case of cheating was registered at Vadodara in Gujarat against both. Paromita has a cheating case lodged against her at Amboli police station as well after she posed as the daughter of former West Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and duped people.”
 
 
