INDORE: In the ongoing judicial   into  ,   OP Tripathi recorded his statement on circumstances that led to the incident on June 6, 2017, before the   on Wednesday.

 During the chief examination, Tripathi told the commission that he was not present at   and Parshwanath Choupati, where five farmers were killed due to alleged police firing. He said that he was not aware about the protest turning violent.
 
 Tripathi said that on learning about the road blockade at   highway, a team of district police and CRPF led by the then CSP Saikrishna Thota arrived at the spot. The police officials did not inform him about the firing after they returned.
 
 “I reached district hospital after I learnt that some injured people were being admitted at the hospital. The then district collector Swatantra Kumar Singh and I, both of us had reached the hospital to take stock of the situation. There, we learnt about the firing,” Tripathi told to the commission. Thereafter, they reached Pipliyamandi area and witnessed a violent protest, he added.
 
 The then collector enforced curfew in Pipliyamandi and Mandsaur. When they returned Mandsaur, they learnt about death of some of injured persons. “The information could have intensified the ongoing farmers’ agitation, but the administration and police managed to maintain peace in the area, Tripathi told the commission.
 
 The next day, they sent a joint report to additional chief secretary (home) and other senior officials and on June 8, state government transferred him.
 
 In his statements, which concluded in 11 points, the then SP said that he was on a training programme in Meghalaya between May 20 and May 27 before going on leave between May 28 and May 31, 2017.
 
 “In my absence, ASP Sundersingh Kanesh was bearing the charge. I joined duty on June 1 and learnt about the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Following this, I deployed the force at different locations including, the sensitive areas,” Tripathi told the commission.
 
 The commission headed by high court judge (retired) JK Jain has fixed March 31 for cross-examination of Tripathi.
 
 “We have demanded a copy of the police intelligence report on the farmers’ agitation and deployment of the police force. The senior police official will be cross-examined on March 31,” senior advocate Anand Mohan Mathur and   told TOI.
 
 
