GURUGRAM:  , 19, is set to tee off in the   (LET) event in Geelong, Australia, next month. Australia’s best will be joined by the world’s most talented golfers at the Oates Vic Open, to be played at 13th Beach Golf Links in Barwon Heads from February 1 to 4.

 Gaurika won the entry into the tournament after finishing 2017 as the top ranked player on the domestic circuit, run by the Women’s Golf Association of India. The Rohtak-born golfer, who turned professional in 2016, was consistent throughout the season, winning one tournament, at the Royal Calcutta Golf Club, and also enjoying a couple of top-three finishes besides. “I guess consistency did reward me and that’s how I got selected to play on the   European Tour,” said told TOI.
 
 Golf came as naturally to   as it did to her brother, Sunhit, 17, who recently finished runner-up at All India Juniors. She was 10 years old when she fell in love with the game. “It was Sunhit who picked up the game first and I just followed in his footsteps.”
 
 And while she admires Tiger Woods, Gaurika is, not surprisingly, motivated by Aditi Ashok, a multiple winner on the LET who became only the second Indian to play on the LPGA Tour in the USA, the most prestigious circuit for woman professional golfers.
 
 “I’ve played competitive golf with (Aditi), and the way she plays her game really inspires me. I applaud her determination and will to be where she wants to be,” shared Gaurika, who practices at the city’s DLF Golf and Country Club.
 
 Gaurika, who calls Gurgaon her home, is currently studying Economic Honours and is in her second year at Jesus & Mary College. Encouragingly, she has found the right balance in life. “I go to college in the morning. Later, I go for practice and then gym. Not compromising on anything and giving your best, does help you achieve your goals,” she admitted.
 
 And Ajay Gupta, her coach, spoke highly of Gaurika’s temperament. “She is level-headed about life and golf. When you make decisions on the golf course that count, you tend to make wrong decisions.
 
 “Gaurika has a lot of good experience. She is a good ball striker, and has got the distance to help the ball travel.” All signs that she shouldn’t be too out of her depth as she takes the next step up.
 
 
