JAIPUR:   (RU) has asked the state higher education department to shift Five Year   from   to regular course. The move is intended that regular mode will enable them to hire teachers which is not possible in the SFS mode.

 “The letter has been written to the VC which has been forwarded to the higher education department. I am sure that once the format of the college will change, the law school will have much needed faculty recruitment,” said SL Sharma, director of the five year law college.
 
 
 The   of the Rajasthan University has agreed that Bar Council of India’s letter (dated June 2017) stating that law colleges has affiliation till 2014-15, but refused to accept that academic sessions thereafter (2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18) are invalid. The show cause notice by the BCI says that at its meeting held on April 9, 2017 they considered the inspection report of the five year BA LLB Law course. They approval of which is upto 2014-15. Sharma argued that the letter didn’t mention that academic sessions after 2014-15 are invalid.
 
 “The BCI issued two letters on 17 June and 3 October 2017. They did said in both letters that all three colleges-- university law college, university five year law college and university law college II have affiliation till 2014-15 but nowhere in the letters they said that students admitted thereafter were illegal. It is important to note that BCI was aware that all three institutes have enrolled students at a time they have sent letters to us,” said Sharma. The law colleges have passed the buck on the BCI for the controversy over the affiliation which had left students furious and few of them had staged hunger strike last this week. Sharma said that they have invited the BCI for inspection on December 2014. They came for inspection on January 2017.
 
 The committee has also taken the exception of the fact that the committee at three centres is having common faculty members. “The moot court is not up to the standard and library is insufficient. Legal aid centre has to make workable which is not functioning. Computers are short and class rooms need modification to keep to the standard for the university law college, law college II. The body also took the exemption that the college is running for only 5 hours but the time has to 5.30 hours.
 
