Zirakpur: The residents of this town took an eight-point agenda to a meeting with the municipal council officials here on Wednesday and sought to know the status of various   works.

 They told MC executive officer Manbir Gill that the absence of an official dumping zone in Zirakpur had turned all the vacant land near the housing societies into landfills. In various residential areas, even slums have come up on the vacant land to add to this garbage. The civic authorities have not marked the official dumping zones, which has led to all these problems. Gill promised the residents a solution in three to four days.
 
 The municipal council has decided to give a company 4 acres in Lalru to build a plant for free-of-cost processing and lifting of garbage. “The draft proposal is in the final stages. The processing plant will make waste management a lot more convenient for the residents,” the executive officer said.
 
 Residents complained against the lack of operational streetlights on the Gazipur and Old Ambala roads. The women from various housing societies, especially, have reported incidents of stalking and eve-teasing, which have increase since there is no streetlight the area. Gill promised to get all the streetlights examined and repaired. Since most of the newly laid roads have crumbled, the residents wanted the contractor concerned to be called to the spot and asked why he had used inferior material.
 
 They want orders for him to repair the road before monsoon (season of rains). Residents said the government had promised to lay a 60-foot-wide road in Gazipur village but its width, so far, was less than 30 feet. Gill promised to look into the matter. Another issue the residents raised with the officials was about the unavailability of a public or community toilet in this town of more than 3 lakh people (going by the 2011 Census). Zirakpur also has a big floating population that takes this national highway to Patiala, Panchkula, and Himachal Pardesh.
 
 Gill said the civic authorities had approved 24 public and 24 community toilets for this area recently. “The construction will start once a company is hired. At present, they idea is to build these toilets with concrete material. Similar toilets in various areas of Chandigarh and Mohali are made up of pre-fabricated material.
 
 Reacting to the demand for speed-breakers at various spots where a lot of accidents happen, Gill promised to create these features soon. The residents also pointed out the danger to commuters because of trees in the middle of road at a spot each at Gazipur village and on the old Ambala-Kalka road. They want these trees removed for the safety of the residents. Gill agreed to take up the matter with the authorities concerned.
 
 Box:
 
 Issues raised
 
 Garbage collection and disposal
 
 Repair of streetlights
 
 Road repair
 
 Installation of speed-breakers
 
 Drainage inspection
 
 100-acre park
 
 Removal of mid-street trees 
 
 Construction of public toilets 
 
 
