BENGALURU: When the rest of the city was voting, people of   constituency, which has an electorate of over 4.7 lakh, were left disappointed with the last-minute postponement of election to May 28.

 Since the decision to postpone polls, in the wake of thousands of voter IDs seized few days ago, came only late on Friday, not everybody was aware of it until Saturday. Many of them even visited polling booths, but saw no action on ground. Some of them were frustrated that there was no notice or display boards at booths, informing polling had been deferred.
 
 Said Santosh NS, a private company employee: “I knew about the voter IDs seizure case. But I wonder why the election commission took the decision to defer polls at the last minute? I was busy on Friday and couldn’t follow news.” And Santosh was not the only who visited the polling booth unaware of the overnight development.
 
 Pragathi K, a resident of Laggere, said the election commission should have given enough publicity about postponing polls.
 
 “I went to the polling booth at around 7.15am and there was nobody there. Some ground staff there said polling had been postponed. Many of my friends in the city and other districts posted pictures of inked fingers on social media. It’s little disappointing for us,” she said, adding that the decision to defer polls was, however, right given the large-scale irregularities.
 
 Some resident welfare associations were smart enough to spread the message on whatsapp groups on Friday night itself.   constituency has 376 polling booths.
 
 The deferring of polls also drew political responses. Supporters of local   leader  , whose camp is opposing the present candidature, busted crackers and celebrated deferring of polls in RR Nagar.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, voters of   constituency, where the decision to countermand polls following the demise of BJP candidate and sitting   BN Vijaykumar was made as early as May 5, had time to make plans.
 
 Given the fact that voting day was a holiday followed by a Sunday, many of them went on family tours. Prasanna K, a resident of Jayanagar, however, said the election commission should come up with new poll dates in their constituency soon.
 
 Jayanagar has 216 polling booths with a total electorate of more than 2 lakh.
 
