PATNA: A day after the state government withdrew 17 of the   personnel from   Devi’s residence, the former CM on Wednesday wrote to CM  , saying she was “hereby returning all security personnel and escort vehicles deployed at my residence.”

 The letter cautioned if anything untoward happened to Rabri or her family members, the state home department and the minister in-charge of home should be held responsible.
 
 It may be mentioned the home portfolio is held by Nitish. 
 
 The state police HQ and the ruling JD (U) have defended the police move, claiming the house guards had been allotted to RJD chief and Rabri’s husband Lalu Prasad. “Lalu these days doesn’t live with family; he is in jail following his conviction in fodder scam cases,” a police officer said.
 
 Rabri’s sons — leader of opposition   and MLA Tej Pratap — as well as all RJD MLAs and MLCs have also threatened to return their security cover in protest. 
 
 After despatching her letter, Rabri asked her security personnel to leave her residence. However, the guards pleaded they could not move out without a written order from their respective controlling officers. 
 
 RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari and party’s state president Ram Chandra Purbey, meanwhile, held a press conference and regretted Nitish had turned political enmity with Lalu family into personal enmity as he saw former deputy CM Tejashwi as a political threat. 
 
 “Almost three months after Lalu was sent to jail on December 23 last year, it suddenly dawned on the state government that Lalu was in jail and, therefore, the security given to him should be withdrawn,” Tiwari said sarcastically and asked what was the government doing all these three months.
 
 Shivanand said Lalu and Tejashwi have been hardened supporters of reservation and their security should have instead been beefed up in view of the unrest among anti-reservation forces. “Bihar will suffer if anything untoward happens to Tejashwi after withdrawal of the security,” he said.
 
 
