Surat: Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has requested the central government to frame a job work policy for diamond industry in order to attract big retail giants in the world to get their diamonds processed in India. Official sources said China, Vietnam and Thailand have become hub for processing of jewellery, diamond and precious and semi-precious stones due to implementation of a job work policy there. India can increase its export of polished diamonds and jewellery, provided Centre introduces a job work model. The job work policy will help diamond artisans and manufacturing units in Surat and Mumbai to earn handsomely and allow big retailers to make direct contracts to get their goods processed.  The micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector in India, particularly in Surat, is primarily a job work segment and capital intensive, but not getting bank finance. Big retailers in the world like Tiffany and Signet are currently handicapped in getting their diamonds processed in India in the absence of a job work policy here.  To cut their costs, such big retailers have come out with a model, whereby they are making direct contracts with mining companies and getting goods processed from China, Vietnam, Thailand etc.  On the other hand, with source protocol for diamonds becoming very important for the US and other western markets with the advent of synthetics and conflict diamonds, Financial Action Task Force (FATF) regulations etc., the job work model will gain importance as more and more US retailers would like to certify the origin of the diamonds set in jewellery when selling it to consumers.  Surat is the world’s largest diamond cutting and manufacturing centre where 14 out of 15 diamonds mined are processed. The annual diamond processing is pegged at more than Rs1 lakh crore. Around 90 per cent of polished diamonds are processed in Surat, while the rest are processed in Navsari, Ahmedabad, Amreli, Bhavnagar etc.  GJEPC regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya said, “We have suggested to the central government to introduce a job work policy for the larger benefit of the Indian diamond industry. India, especially Gujarat, is the job work centre for diamonds and jewellery. The job work policy will go a long way in reinforcing the strength and ability of artisans and manufacturers and will also provide an opportunity to earn dollar revenue for the government.” Navadiya said mining companies like De Beers have opened jewellery brands and stores titled ‘Forevermark’. Rio Tinto and Alrosa have also initiated similar kind of programmes in India.  This can convert into huge employment opportunities and value addition for India without involvement of precious foreign exchange, as the contract will directly come from retailers or miners in dollars.