KOCHI: In one of the biggest busts, the excise special squad arrested two men with 5kg of 3-4 methylenedioxy methamphetamine (MDMA), a party drug-also known as Ecstasy-worth Rs 30 crore in the domestic market near Athani here on Saturday. 

 The arrested men, Faisal A and  , both aged 34 and from  , were the local links of an international drug smuggling racket.
 
  
  
 
 They were taking the banned substance to the   when the excise officers, based on a tipoff, intercepted their   car and seized the contraband around 12 noon. The narcotic substance was found packed in two bags.
 
 Officers said the drug was to be handed over to two men from Kozhikode, who were assigned to take them to Kuwait.
 
 State excise commissioner   said the drug was smuggled into India via Kashmir from   with the assistance of extremists. It was then brought to Palakkad from Delhi by train.
 
 "The MDMA was packed in the secret chambers of trolley bags at the accused's house. The drug was covered in carbon papers and kept in the small chambers. It is very difficult to detect the drug at the airport," Singh said.
 
 He claimed that the Narcotics Control Bureau had termed the haul the largest MDMA seizure in India. "In India, the entire haul would cost around Rs 30 crore, but it would fetch more in the Middle East," P K Manoharan, joint excise commissioner, said.
 
 Both   and Faisal were employed in the Middle-East for several years before the returned home. Excise sleuths said they both admitted to taking part in 10 such smuggling instances in the past year.
 
 Though the accused claimed that they were paid around Rs 13,000 for each trip, officers said they earned around Rs 2 lakhs for each drug run.
 
 "After the bust, we took Abdul and Faisal to the airport to identify the carriers who would take the drugs to Kuwait, but we could not identify them," an excise officer said.
 
 Singh said investigation had revealed that a Kochi man has been managing the racket from Kuwait and was controlling the whole transaction over internet. The men employed at different stages had no connection with the kingpin.
 
 Excise officers are currently trying to identifying the handler.
 
 "The person who has been taking the drug to the destination is not aware of the packed stuff in the bag. It is understood that last time in December, a man was caught at Dubai airport and is now imprisoned there," he said.
 
 Abdul and Faisal would presented before the Angamaly magistrate court on Sunday. They have been booked for drug trafficking under the NDPS act and if found guilty, could be imprisoned for up to 20 years.
 
 
