MUMBAI:   MD Shikha Sharma’s request to relinquish her position at the lender by this yearend has opened up an opportunity for   to have another go at the troubled bank, said a research note by foreign broking major Nomura.

 “We believe this (the change of guard at Axis Bank as it tries to come out of its troubles) presents a great opportunity for Kotak Bank to acquire one of the largest liability/retail asset franchises in India,” Nomura said. “With a very short time left in the CEO’s term at Axis Bank, RBI’s pressure on the bank’s management/ board and with an asset quality clean-up exercise continuing, we believe this is the best opportunity for Kotak Bank to acquire or merge with Axis Bank.”
 
 Nomura feels that a combination of Kotak and Axis banks would make it the second-largest private bank after HDFC Bank in terms of advances and also absolute CASA (current account, saving account), and largest in terms of number of branches. In Tuesday’s relatively strong market, Axis Bank shares closed sharply up by 5.4% at Rs 546 on the on BSE, while Kotak Bank closed a marginal 0.4% lower at Rs 1,114.
 
 Analysts at Nomura feel that this time around, there would be limited pushback for any merger from Axis Bank’s side because of the loss of confidence that RBI has expressed by not approving the renewal of the CEO’s full term and also due to a vacuum in top management. On February 9, 2017, TOI had reported that these two large private sector lenders were talking of a merger.
 
 For Kotak Bank, such a move would be at an opportune time since Axis Bank has ramped up the NPA-recognition process and Nomura believes the majority of the bad news is now known. It also said that since the time of the last merger talks, Kotak Bank’s stock has outperformed Axis Bank’s by about 30%, making the acquisition more reasonable.
 
 In addition, Kotak Bank would gain enough liability and retail asset size to rub shoulders with HDFC Bank and, from the promoters’ perspective, this should aid in diluting their stake down to RBI’s requirements. The central bank has given the promoters till December 2018 to bring down their stake to 20% from 30.1% now. 
 
