NAGPUR: The state public works department (PWD) has taken no action against controversial Mumbai-based RPS Infraprojects Private Limited even after its engineer pointed out various violations in   Cement Concrete Road Project four months ago. Even the district administration has not taken any action against the firm, even after accepting that there had been tampering in royalty challans.

 PWD subdivisional officer Sharadchandra Neurgaonkar (now retired) had written two letters to executive engineer   on November 21 and 23, 2017, based on his own survey, TOI reports, RTI applications, and complaints from activist Suraj Lolge and Shiv Sena activist Nitin Tiwari. Neurgaonkar had pointed out that RPS was executing works by subletting it to petty contractors. He also reported the shoddy quality of works, lack of rectification of defect panels etc.
 
 Lolge had submitted a series of complaints along with documentary evidence to prove RPS had sublet works, though this was not allowed in the work order issued by the PWD.
 
 PWD subdivisional engineer   told TOI there were no documents to prove RPS had sublet works. Bhat admitted all contractors execute works by engaging petty contractors but said it cannot be proved. “How can we know RPS engaged whom and where to execute works in the project.”
 
 Borkar also confirmed no action was taken against RPS despite complaints related to subletting of works.
 
 Lolge said he had also exposed RPS had sublet works to three petty contractors. “Royalty challans of sand and materials utilized for the project had the names of the petty contractors. RPS itself submitted the challans to PWD. Also, the PWD released bills to RPS considering these challans. After being exposed by me, PWD returned the challans to RPS. Then RPS entered its name and project, overwriting names of the petty contractors, on the challans. Also, I have taken pictures of boards and machinery with names of petty contractors. Even the police department registered an offence against one of the petty contractors, and not a RPS representative, after the death of a person on Ring Road,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration directed the PWD to deposit royalty of Rs58.47 lakh after complaint lodged by Lolge. The activist had lodged a complaint with district administration,   and CP office, alleging RPS tampered with royalty challans in nexus with PWD engineers in October 2017. “I obtained documents related to action taken on my complaint under RTI Act. District administration sent four letters to PWD asking them to deposit the amount but got no response from the latter. Unfortunately, district administration did not take any action against RPS or PWD officials for the tampering,” he said.
 
 RPS also did not repair over 600 panels found defective in a 10km stretch despite being directed by PWD eight months ago. Deadline to rectify the defective panels was October 2017. Lolge alleged less than 10% defective panels were rectified while Borkar claimed the number was 60-70%.
 
 
