Nagpur: In a respite to CM Devendra Fadnavis, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday, quashed and set aside the sessions court’s orders that had allowed controversial lawyer Satish Uke’s application against him alleging suppression of two pending criminal cases in an affidavit for 2014 Maharashtra assembly polls. While allowing Uke’s application, the then principal district and sessions judge Pushpa Ganediwala, on May 30, 2016, quashed and set aside sixth JMFC SD Chakkar’s order that rejected his plea on September 7, 2015, against the CM. Her revision court restored Uke’s Miscellaneous Criminal application (No. 3550/2014) and remanded it back to the trial court for fresh consideration. She observed that Chakkar’s order was “cryptic” and “non-speaking” while asking both parties to appear before trial court on June 18, 2016. After Fadnavis challenged this order, the HC granted stay on his personal appearance on June 16, 2016, observing that the sessions judge committed serious mistake of law warranting interference by HC. While allowing CM’s application on Thursday, justice Sunil Shukre made it clear that failure to furnish information about pending criminal case in which cognisance was taken and no charge was framed, doesn’t amount to commission of any offence under Section 125A of the Act of 1951. “There was no requirement on petitioner’s part to disclose pendency of two criminal cases in the affidavit. It neither violated Section 33A, nor Section 125A of the Act of 1951. Prima facie, no offence punishable under Section 125A of the Act of 1951 has been made out in this case.” Appreciating the JMFC’s order, justice Shukre flayed the sessions judge on how she could described it as “cryptic” and dealt it with disdain. “For an order to be reasoned, it’s not necessary that it must run into several pages. Best reasons can be stated in short, precise and succinct manner. To know the reasons, all that is required is a discerning eye, which looks for the meaning of the words rather than their numbers. It’s not the length of the order, but the strength of analysis and logic contained in it, which determines its character. The sessions judge, however, missed this basic attribute of a reasoned order and thus, committed a perversity in finding something in JMFC’s order which was not its frailty.” Further slamming the sessions judge, justice Shukre said she committed one more illegality, a serious one, in directing the petitioner to appear before the JMFC and asking latter to consider the matter afresh.  “This direction made the petitioner appear before JMFC even before any process was issued against him and thus, converted the whole proceeding into a farce, leaving virtually no discretion with the JMFC under Sections 202 or 203 of CrPC. Such an order can’t sustain the scrutiny of law and deserves to be quashed and set aside by confirming the order of September 7, 2015,” he said. 