 has represented fashion and design at numerous platforms over the years, but accepting an honour alongside a DRDO scientist and a Nobel laureate was a rare ocassion for him. The Fashion and Design Council of India ( ) President was conferred with the Doctor of Philosophy (D Phil) Honoris Causa by   in Jaipur, recently. The other two people to be honoured were Dr G Athithan, scientist and director-general of Micro Electronic Devices and Computational Systems in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and Muhammad Yunus, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for founding the  . Past recipients of this honour include  , NR Narayana Murthy and Sunil Bharti Mittal.

 
  
  Sunil Sethi (BCCL/ Shalini Maheshwari)
 
 For Sethi, it was humbling to be honoured for his contribution in the field of fashion, design, craft and textile. More than that, he says, for fashion to be recognized on the same platform where a Nobel laureate and a scientist were being honoured, is a matter of great pride. "This yet again proves that fashion is being recognized as an industry contributing significantly to economic growth and as a field with great potential," said Sethi. He was glad that everyone present, from guests to faculty and students, connected with him when he spoke about fashion and design. "I was glad to see that there was great awareness about fashion and design and it was a topic of interest for everyone present there. No matter what background one comes from, today, fashion is regarded as an interesting topic of discussion," said Sethi. He added that he hopes that now more people from the fashion fraternity are honoured at more such platforms. "This event has given certain credibility to fashion and I hope after this many more people from the fashion fraternity and design industry are invited to be part of events at universities and educational institutes, apart from fashion institutes," said Sethi.
 
 
  
  
 
 While in Jaipur, Sethi was pleasantly surprised to note how fashion has evolved in the city. "Though it was a formal event, I could see that people (including students) didn't follow any regimented look. I saw a student wearing jewellery made from fabrics with hand block printing, which is one among the famous textile techniques from Rajasthan. I was happy to see how youngsters in a city like Jaipur take pride in flaunting the traditional techniques in a fashionable way," he said. 
 
 
 
  
 
