NEW DELHI: Arijit Shashwat Choubey, Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey’s son who has an arrest warrant against him for inciting communal riots, said today he will move court for anticipatory bail, and also questioned the need for him to surrender, reported ANI.

 
 “Why should I surrender? I have taken refuge under honourable court. I haven’t run away. One should chase and trace those who are hiding, not me. I am still living within society,” said Arijit reacting to reports that he was in hiding to evade arrest.
 
 The BJP Union minister’s son is accused of having incited violent clashes between two communities in Muslim-dominated Nathnagar on the outskirts of   in Bihar on March 17. A Bhagalpur court on Saturday issued arrest warrants against Arijit and eight other BJP functionaries after two FIRs were lodged by the Bhagalpur police following the clash at Medinigar Chowk in Nathnagar.
 
 After he applies for anticipatory bail, Arijit said it was up to the court to decide what it wanted to do with him.
 
 “The court issues warrant but the court also gives shelter. Once you go to the court, you will do only what it decides for you…In the meantime If the police come to arrest me, I will do what they ask,” he said.
 
 Arijit was accused of fomenting trouble in the locality after he led a procession to celebrate the first day of ‘Vikarm Samvat’, the Hindu calendar, without any written permission from the district administration.
 
  leader   yesterday accused Bihar chief minister (CM)   of issuing “dummy arrest warrants” against Arijit, while he was openly “brandishing swords” outside the CM’s residence.
 
 “Son of JDU partner’s leader is mocking the justice system by stripping naked the law and order of the state, while Nitish does nothing,” Yadav said.
 
 
  
 Defending his son, minister Ashwini said that the FIRs were “a bunch of lies” as the clashes took place long after the procession had passed.
 
 “I am proud that Arijit is my son. All BJP workers are like my son. Is there anything wrong in leading a procession to celebrate the Hindu New Year?” Ashwini asked.
 
