From her debut days in Love Sex Aur Dhokha to a runaway hit like   and now the hugely successful  ,   has worked her way up the   ladder with sheer grit and confidence. Though the ride was not easy, it was definitely an eventful one. BT caught up with the woman of the moment on the sidelines of a fashion show she recently attended in the city. Excerpts:

 
 Yeah! This is a beautiful city. I had come here earlier once, but don’t remember what the purpose was. Unfortunately, I couldn’t see around much and this time also there’s no time for that. The schedule is so tight. Maybe one day, I will shoot a film here and visit around.
 
 
 (Laughs) I am thinking and hopefully it will happen soon. I have heard a lot about this city from friends. I know it’s famous for its temples that are architectural marvels. Actually, I want to shoot on the temple steps and enjoy the stone works on the walls. I like heritage a lot. There would be so many stories, so many things behind each carving on the walls. Ye sab sunne mein maza ayega. I would get a lot of stories to hear. 
 
 
 I have been through a lot of ups and downs. I started with television and reached here. I had no idea how to act. I just knew that screen ke aage aake expression show karna hain. I was fascinated by the process of emoting since childhood. I used to fall in love with characters — the way they would speak, the way they would express and the way they would emote. Main kho jati thi ye sab dekh ke bachpan se.
 Since then, I used to play out scenes alone. I had a flair for drama. When I was doing journalism, my focus was on advertising. And during that time, acting happened suddenly.
 
 
 A friend suggested that I go for an audition for  . At that time, I had no idea about what an audition was, how to apply makeup right and what acting required. At the auditions, they just spoke to me and the camera was on. Later, I got a call saying that I was selected for a role. So, it happened accidentally.
 
 
 When you have nothing to lose, you gain a lot. Mere case mein, mujhe ata kuchh nahi tha and it had advantages and disadvantages. Disadvantage ye hai ki since you know nothing, you would face a lot of humiliations and the advantage was that since you have no knowledge you can learn a lot. Over the years, I was experimenting and that’s how I got to learn. I feel the journey chose me, not that I chose the journey.
 
 
 Actually, I feel that I didn’t choose these two films rather they chose me. I had not heard the story of LSD, they said   is doing this and I said I am doing this film. I was discouraged by many, but I stuck to my decision. A lot of girls had refused the role in Pyaar Ka Punchnama for obvious reasons. I also had refused initially. But,   sir had convinced me to do this film and he had told me that he would do a different film with me in return. It was barter. I took the risk and I learnt a lot.
 
 
 Actually, I felt apprehensive whether it will work or not. Ye kya itna gaali galauj… It was not humourous for me. For me, comedy means movies like Bheja Fry. I didn’t find Pyaar Ka Punchnama funny. When it was released and I went to the theatres, I was apprehensive that log fek ke marenge. But people liked it. Initially, I was judging the film but later I realised that we have to think from people’s point of view too. 
 
 
 I think there has been a huge change in content. Earlier, action films were made, then came love stories like Hum Aapke Hain Koun..! that are also family dramas, then came Dil Chahta Hai, which was a completely different genre and then Pyaar Ka Punchnama kind of films started. Content-driven films are what people like these days. Now, all kinds of actors have some or the other kind of work in the industry. Irrespective of people’s height, weight, colour and differences, they can carve a niche for themselves in the industry. 
 
 
 Yes, of course. And for that I would give credit to some of the leading ladies of our generation, who have created such a scope for us to follow suit. Say  , who has brought horror genre in a different light, Vidya Balan, Kangana Ranaut, Alia Bhatt and so many others who have made their mark. I also had done LSD that was different. I did that film when no one had done such a film. I would definitely do more such films.
 
 
 Well, I don’t choose characters. I follow actors because they choose characters. I like Smita Patil and Tabu as actors who play different characters with aplomb. 
 
 Yes, when they bother me I speak out. Honestly speaking, I feel it’s my initial days in the industry. There is a larger section of people and the world, which I have not experienced yet. I don’t think I am the right person to be opinionated on certain things. Whenever I feel strongly I do express. But I don’t take it out on social media. While speaking about anything, I have to be responsible because it may hurt someone or the other. I can influence people so I want to use that power responsibly. 
 
 
 Wherever and however I be, I just want to see myself content. 
 You have worked in Tamil and Telugu films along with Hindi films. Would you be interested to work in Odia films?
 Though I have no idea about Odia films, I would definitely love to work in all regional films. My only problem is understanding the language. If I can’t understand the meaning of the words or what my co-actors say, how would I express? If I am able to understand the meaning of the words spoken, then I can work in that industry. 
 
 
 You have to find one person to believe in you. If you don’t find that one person, then you be that person for yourself.
