By:Anamni Gupta & Sakschi Verma 

 Surrounded by shanties, tapering buildings, and open fields, these less than 30 outlets may look plain and devoid of the hustle and bustle of the weekly markets and Sector-26 mandi, but a five-minute walk there will reveal that they are bountiful and their gloomy appearance is just a facade.
 
  
 
 The informal sabzi mandi (vegetable  ) near Royal Estate 2 in Peer Muchalla village of   area is older than two-yearsand-a-half. Even though spread over small land, it offers all sorts of household goods from cereals, oil, fruits, and vegetables to poultry
 
 
 products. Catering to the needs of residents of the nearby housing societies, who find walking to the local market too much of a workout, this mandi operating out of shanties makes good profit.
 
 
 
 
 About 2.5 years ago, Dhakoli resident D S Yadav took this land on lease from Gurdayal Singh of Peer Muchalla. “It took time for the vendors to all come together and settle here,” said Yadav, when asked about how the market developed. He said: “Most of these shopkeepers are residents of nearby areas itself in Zirakpur.”
 
 True to the dynamics of the settlement story of every informal mandi, this one in Peer Muchalla had already started its journey six years ago, in illegal terms. The shops that sell chicken and fish can be found right behind the ones selling vegetables and items of daily utility. These were the first shops to come about six to seven years ago.
 
 Not willing to disclose his identity, an old meat seller at the market said: “We settled here about six years ago, it’s true. This has been our family business. After we came here, we thought of erecting a small shed to set up a chicken shop of the kind we ran back in our hometown. All the other vegetable shops that you see today opened way later, right in front of our eyes. The land used to be all empty before that.”
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Its daily stock has arrived at 8 in the morning and the mandi is ready to begin its day. Morning walkers, mainly older members of the families living around, frequent the shops during these hours to get their weekly supplies of vegetables and fruits. As the day advances, the open area in front of the mandi becomes a mini playground for the children from the shanties.
 
 Dheeraj, one of the vegetable sellers at the informal market, says: “The number of customers increases around evening, since the office hours are over. That’s when the rush is maximum. After 8pm, the rush declines, but only to peak once again around 10pm, when the prices hit rock bottom because the vendors are in a hurry to exhaust their stock before they go home.”
 
  
 
 
 
 
 With every new day, the mandi gets a new stock. A meat-seller, engrossed in cutting chicken, says: “Farms in Punjab are our regular suppliers of fresh produce, including fish, chicken and eggs. The items reach here daily. We don’t get fish in large numbers, keeping in mind that a day’s stock should not go waste. The sale is the highest around evening and during night.”
 
 D S Yadav, lease-holder who himself owns a small grocery shop at the market, says: “We get the products from the Grain Market in Sector 26, Chandigarh, as well every day. After the items reach here, retailers from Baltana, Dhakoli, and Zirakpur buy these for wholesale price. The wheat comes in from places in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, aboard trucks, each of which weighs about 200 tonnes.”
 
 
  
 
 
 All shopkeepers, including the ones selling poultry items, submit a daily rent to Yadav, which varies from Rs 100 to Rs 500, depending on what they sell and how much space they occupy. After collecting the total amount, Yadav passes it on to landowner Gurdayal Singh. The shopkeepers also bear the costs of shipping the items from the Grain Market.
 
 
 
 
 The market includes three fast-food shops that serve visitors all day. Their loyal clients include the big labour force from the construction sites of underdevelopment Peer Muchalla village. They come over for their favourite breakfast of parantha and sabzi, and the hot-selling evening snack of jalebi and samosa. With the new apartments welcoming more families who are keen to settle close to Chandigarh, this mandi has grown into an   of cheaper items of daily need.
 
