Margao:   scored a crucial away goal in a 1-1 draw against   in the first leg semifinal of the   at the   in Fatorda on Saturday.

 
 
 Manuel Lanzarote broke the deadlock in the 64th minute for Goa but Chennaiyin bounced back seven minutes later with substitute Anirudh Thapa’s equalizer as the teams settled for a draw — the first between the two after 10 matches in four seasons.
 
 Laxmikant Kattimani was back in the starting 11 and captained the side in the absence of Naveen Kumar, who received a direct red in their last game against Jamshedpur.
 
 FC Goa, the most attacking side in the league, were always going to take charge of the proceedings but their opponents were in no hurry and adopted a defensive approach.
 
 In the midfield though, Goa missed the influential Hugo Boumous who was sidelined by injury. Edu Bedia tried to fill the void but simply couldn’t find Ferran Corominas and Lanzarote. Coro, as his fondly know, came close when Lanzarote got around goalkeeper Karanjit Singh in the 12th minute but Mailson Alves intervened.
 
 Chennaiyin started with a renewed sense of purpose in the second half, tearing the rival defence apart twice. Jeje Lalpekhlua, who was on a five-match goal drought, chested down a long ball from Alves and shot but Kattimani denied the India international from close.
 
 In the very next minute, Kattimani boosted his morale with another fine save to deny Gregory Nelson. Goa had their chance before the hour mark when Pranoy Halder slipped a through ball to Coro but Karanjit was the quickest to react. The moment of joy for the home team finally arrived four minutes later when Mandar Rao Dessai did well to win the ball from right-back Inigo Calderon and sent it across to Coro.
 
 The league’s top scorer with 18 goals created space and shot but Karanjit’s save wasn’t enough as the rebound fell to Lanzarote who poked out his left foot for his 13th goal.
 
 However, Goa’s hope to maintain a clean sheet were dashed in the 71st minute as Chennaiyin bounced back with the equaliser. It was Nelson who took time and space to put Thapa through and the substitute justified the faith John Gregory reposed in him with a clinical finish as the ball went through Kattimani’s legs.
 
 Coach Sergio Lobera changed his tactics by bringing in midfielder Brandon Fernandes in place of defender Narayan Das. Lanky forward Markos Sifneos was introduced too but it was just not enough. The second leg will be played in Chennai on Tuesday.
 
 
