Panaji: Just 17 high   from among the state’s 400-odd institutions are gender-specific, a number that is not expected to rise any time soon. Over the past few years, the directorate of   has barely received any requests to open new schools that cater only to girls or boys. 

 Also, when most gender-specific high schools seek to add a pre-primary, primary or higher secondary section, they themselves tend to opt for co-education.
 
 Parents and school managements list a number of factors for this apparent shift in preference towards   schools. Among these are convenience and an increasing feeling that co-ed schools prepare children better for the future.
 
 “I have taught in a co-ed school for the last 16 years and I now head a girls school. I have studied in a co-ed school myself. But I have come across parents who feel more secure when their daughters study in a girls school. They worry that boys can be aggressive. But now, more and more parents want their sons and daughters to study in the same school because it is convenient to pick and drop them etc. Schools also want to offer co-education may be because they are worried that if they restrict it to a certain gender, they will get fewer students,” says Sr Flavia, principal of St Mary of the Angels High School, Chinchinim.
 
 She, however, says though there aren’t many new gender-specific schools coming up, the existing ones are doing very well. For instance, St Mary of the Angels High School has 1,000-odd girls enrolled with it, while just 4km away, in Cuncolim, another school caters to another 700 girls, she says.
 
  resident  , who recently shifted his son from a boys school to a co-ed institution, feels gender-specific schools can be more ‘regimental’. “If you allow girls and boys to study together from a young age, they integrate better. It is better for the holistic growth of the child. From the higher secondary section onwards, students have to study in a co-ed environment anyway, so it is better they study together from the lower classes,” he says.
 
 Clinical psychologist Aldina Gomes, says though single-sex schools provide an opportunity, especially for girls, to express themselves more freely, the concept is unrealistic. “Parents want to be protective of their children by putting them in a girls or boys school during the hormonal surge at adolescence. But, when you will be working with both men and women at a workplace later, isn’t it better you learn to compete with and learn to relate with both sexes right from a young age?” she asks.
 
 With the internet providing free access to knowledge, schools are no more seen as the only medium of dissemination of information, causing a shift where schools are expected to provide more of life skills, Gomes says. “We need to move away from gender as a basis of education. It is the teachers that need to be sensitised. If you go to a girls school, you will see they are introduced more to skills like cooking. I think that is sad. A girl can also be good at leading a debate or playing football and a boy at cooking and stitching. Schools need to focus on individual growth and not base its education on being gender-specific.”
 
 
