SURAT: Even 10 days after the body of an 11-year-old girl, who was brutalized and raped, was found on the roadside, Surat police have not got any concrete clues, either about the girl’s identity or the perpetrators of the crime.

 The girl’s body, which was found on April 6 near Jiav-Budia Road in Bhestan area under the jurisdiction of   police station, had 86 injury marks. Postmortem has also confirmed that the girl was confined for eight to 10 days, brutalized, sexually assaulted and then strangulated to death. The postmortem had also revealed the injury found in her private parts was severe and inflicted few days ago before the body was found. Police suspect that a stick-like object was inserted in her private parts. The girl was subjected to severe torture before being killed.
 
 
 
 Amid growing nation-wide uproar over Kathua and   gangrapes, Surat police stepped up its probe into this barbaric incident. On Sunday, city police commissioner Satish   visited the spot of the crime along with other senior officials.
 
 Read also: 
 
 
 
 “We will widen our scope of investigations to trace the perpetrators of crime. More teams of local crime branch (LCB) have been formed. All the residential colonies and socities near the spot of the crime would be thoroughly checked to get more clues about the girl. We will also scan all the CCTV camera footages of nearby places to get clues about the victim and the accused,” Sharma told TOI.
 
 Earlier, police had printed 1,350 posters of the girl and put them up in different areas and circulated them on the social media to find out who she was. They had also declared a cash reward of Rs 20,000 to anyone who gave information about the girl. However, this has not helped much.
 
 Police is also probing the possibility that the girlcould have been brutalized and raped somewhere outside Surat and then dumped here. They have been reviewing this case every two days and have checked the national and local records of missing persons to get some clues about the girl.
 
 There are multiple injuries from being thrashed with a stick or some blunt objects all over the girl’s body, about which the doctors mentioned in the postmortem report. 
 
 On Saturday night, a group of people living in Udhna and Pandesara areas took out a candle march to protest against police inaction in the case and seeking expeditious probe. Muslim community menbers and MLA Jignesh Mevani-led Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch also held protests in Mehsana town of north   condemning the three brutal rape crimes on Sunday.
 
 
