NEW DELHI: Expecting to begin construction works of three of its 30 proposed inter-linking of rivers (ILR) projects this year, the Centre is exploring options of creating separate fund for this mega mission which was conceived by the then   government under Atal BihariVajpayee in 2003.

 The water resources ministry has set up an exclusive group for this purpose under existing task force on ILR. The group has already met thrice and deliberated on possibility of creating a separate fund for implementing inter-linking of river projects across the country. 
 
 “The group is basically looking at different options. Framing criteria for considering the ILR projects as ‘national projects’ and thereby suggesting appropriate mechanism to fund them is one of the options which we are looking at”, said an official who attended the meeting on the issue in last December.
 
 
 The chairman of the task force, B N Navalawala, is learnt to have told the group in its last meeting that since each ILR project involved two or more states with some of them having international implication, almost all the link projects identified by the National Water Development Agency ( ) are likely to fall under the category of “national projects”.
 
 “There is a possibility that the government may clear its intent on separate fund for ILR in the forthcoming Union Budget (2018-19)”, said an official. 
 
 The discussions were held in the backdrop of the government’s forward movement on three of the 30 proposed project. These three projects which may see beginning of construction works this year include   ILR in   and   and Damanganga-Pinjaland Par-Tapi-Narmada in   and  .
 
 Since the government has taken a call to implement two phases of Ken-Betwa ILR simultaneously, it will have to look for huge fund for the task. The first phase of the project alone will cost about Rs9,393 crore. Both the phases together will cost nearly Rs18,000 crore.
 
 Noting that the existing 60 (Centre):40 (State) funding pattern would be too burdensome for states, an official said the 90 (Centre): 10(State) funding pattern may get the nod of finance ministry. 
 
 The task force on ILR was set up in 2015 to take up all issues for expediting the inter-linking of rivers in the country. 
 
