GHAZIABAD: Sixteen trucks carrying 500 tonnes of iron bars and rods worth Rs 2.5 crore were seized on Friday from the godowns of gangsters involved in extorting transporters. 

 
 Police conducted a four-hour-long drive at various places early on Friday morning and also detained 38 members from two gangs for questioning.
 
 SSP Vaibhav Krishna had received an anonymous call about this flourishing corruption nearly a month ago. 
 
 Subsequently, an inquiry was conducted and the allegations were found to be true.
 
 Talking about the modus operandi, the SSP said, “The   racket has been running silently for a long time now wherein the transporters and the factory owners were forced to forego 2-3% (from half tonne to two tonnes) of each shipment to these   leaders. Knowing that there is no escape, the truck drivers during each trip would themselves go to these godowns and dump a fixed load, and in turn were paid a certain amount.”
 
 “Our preliminary investigation has revealed that some 500 trucks from across the country passing through Ghaziabad’s NH-24 Hapur and GT road are extorted in this manner, and every night iron worth Rs 50 lakh is dumped in the godowns of the mafia, who sell it at market price. One of the gangs is run by   and the other is jointly run by Ravi Kana and Awadh,” Krishna added.
 
 Some police officials are also under scanner for their role in the extortion ring, sources said.
 
 The raid was conducted between 2am and 6am on Friday. Interestingly, the SSP did not involve the SHOs of respective police stations where the raids were conducted and instead deployed personnel from other police stations to maintain secrecy.
 
 The raid was conducted near   on NH-24 which comes under Vijay Nagar police station, where circle officer (CO) of Sahibabad and senior cops from Link road and Khoda were deputed. 
 
 Similarly, SHOs of Muradnagar and Modi Nagar police stations were deployed in the raid that was conducted at Wave City, though the area falls under Masuri police station. Also, at Mukherjee Park, circle officer of Modi Nagar and SHO of Indirapuram police station conducted the raid. 
 
 Circle officer of   was deputed near Lal Kuan on GT road. Both Mukherjee Park and Lal Kuan fall under Kavi Nagar police station.
 
 Police are investigating the role of commercial weighing stations located on the highways for using illegal means like wooden blocks and iron scraps to compensate for the portion of iron rods/bars dumped at illegal godowns.
 
 
