NAGPUR: The proposal of Dr   (PDKV) to transfer a part of its land along VIP Road to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has met with strong opposition from university employees, ex-officials and agricultural experts.

 NMC wants to construct a jogging and cycling track on the land. The state government has already sanctioned more than half the project cost. The proposal will come up for discussion in PDKV’s executive council meeting on May 11.
 
 CD Mayee, former director of   (CICR) and executive council member of PDKV, has written a letter protesting the university’s decision to consider NMC’s proposal. He has warned that if the proposal was passed, he would lodge a complaint with the governor.
 
 In a letter to vice-chancellor VM Bhale, Mayee stated that there was strong resentment among farmers of Vidarbha that the government was not doing enough for their welfare. “The track will be for elites of Nagpur who will come there in their own cars and jog. Will any poor person who toils for the whole day use the facility?” he wrote. 
 
 Mayee suggested that PDKV could offer NMC the land available near   for jogging tracks, sports complex and also a big hall for farmers’ training. ‘But the owner of the same shall be PDKV. We got a big zero by giving land for Vanamati as no facilities are given to the university,” he said.
 
 Vandan Mohod, former associate dean, and Dinkar Jiwtode, president of Teachers’ Association of Maharashtra Agricultural Universities, strongly opposed the proposal and suggested that the state government help PDKV in removing the encroachers from the 50 acres at Kachipura and construct the track there. Both said that   was lungs of Nagpur.
 
 Mohod said that an agricultural university should have 100 acres for research and training but PDKV did not have even 50 acres in Nagpur. Jiwtode said that all the agricultural college teachers and staffers were strongly against the move.
 
 Nitin Hiwase, former executive member of PDKV, also slammed the government for seeking university’s research land.
 
 LB Kalantri, former director of sericulture, said the land was a mandatory need of one of the oldest agricultural colleges of the country. Moreover, it was a heritage precinct. “NMC has 337 gardens in the city and people can use them for jogging,” he told TOI.
 
 Agricultural college employee Hitendra Singh said that PDKV had already lost a lot of land for roads and Nagpur Metro. “Why doesn’t the government build the track on land belonging to Neeri or Nagpur University?” he said.
 
 
