PUNE: Residents of Sahakarnagar on Sunday opposed the proposed tunnel through   hill complex which will connect   to Pune-Satara Road. At an impromptu meeting, the residents decided to take several steps, including legal, to protect the biodiversity rich area.

 The tunnel was first mooted in 2013 when the draft development plan was made public and suggestions and objections were sought. Residents had submitted over 4,000 objections to the proposal. At that time, the proposed tunnel was 18m wide, but the state government increased the width to 24m in the recently approved part draft development plan. 
 
 
  
 
 Addressing the gathering, local resident Ajay Kulkarni said the steering committee established in 2013 to oppose the proposal would be revived. 
 
 "We will collect maps and other details about the tunnel proposal, including its alignment. There is complete lack of transparency in the entire process and clear information about the exact alignment is not available,” he said. Residents will not only create pressure but also take concrete steps to foil any designs to destroy the Taljai-Waghjai hill complex. He said residents have the right to know why their objections to the plan were ignored.
 
 Town planning expert Vikas Chauthai, who is also a resident of the area, said the proposed tunnel will not only destroy the ecosystem but also create massive traffic bottlenecks in the area that is already struggling with traffic jams during peak hours. 
 
 "There will be two huge bottlenecks at the two T-junctions that exist from the hill complex till   Road. Both the Dashabhuja Ganapati Road and   are not wide enough to take up the increased traffic coming from Sinhagad Road,” he said. A traffic load analysis, environment impact assessment and geological study of the hills is an absolute must before any decisions are made, he added.
 
 Local resident and noted ornithologist   said the residents must oppose this destructive plan which will not stand the test of a cost, benefit and risk analysis. 
 
 "The Taljai-Waghjai hill forest area is nurtured by local citizens. The young and the old take care of the cover because they are the green lungs of the city. What they are getting in return is a tunnel that will destroy the green cover not just on the hill but also along Dashabhuja Ganapati Road,” he said.
 
 Pande, who is also a radiologist, warned that local residents will face the risk of increased chronic respiratory diseases because of the massive increase in traffic and destruction of the green cover. "Trees do not just absorb carbon dioxide. Research shows that one square km of forest absorbs 20,000 tonne of dust particles,” he said.
 
 Environment activist Dilip Dakhwe and CPI (M) leader Ajit Abhyankar also spoke at the meeting, outlining a plan of action. Local resident Anil Deshpande said local residents will set up a permanent pressure group that will oppose any plans of the civic body that harm the environment. 
 
 
