LUCKNOW: In a ghastly incident, a three-year-old boy was sodomised and murdered and his body was found being devoured by stray dogs in the fields in   locality under Thakurganj police station on Saturday morning. 

 The body was identified as that of Rishabh, who had been missing from a wedding venue since Friday evening.   had come to attend the wedding with his mother at his maternal grandmother's house on Friday evening and was missing since 6.30pm. 
 
 The family and relatives looked around for him and finally his mother   lodged a complaint with police at around 11.30pm. The body was found when some local residents spotted some stray dogs devouring human flesh in a field owned by one Pir Khan in Garhi. 
 
 The field is located just next to the venue of the wedding where the boy had come with his mother. The locals and wedding guests shooed off the pack of dogs and informed police.
 
 The body was identified to be of Rishabh who had been missing since Friday evening. ASP (west) and SHO Thakurganj also reached the spot. After getting the post-mortem report on Saturday evening, cops revealed that the child had died of asphyxiation caused by strangulation and also that he was sodomised before death. The viscera has been preserved for further examination.
 
 Taking action on the written complaint of the boy's mother, police lodged a case of murder and causing disappearance of the boy against her husband, sister-in-law, father-in-law and mother-in-law. 
 
 All accused were absconding at the time of filing of the report.
 
 ASP (west)   said that the boy had been living with his mother and his father had filed a petition for divorce. He said that police are probing the allegations of the mother and are yet to ascertain the motive behind the murder. 
 
 "We will round up members of the father's family and then reach to any conclusion," said Tripathi. 
 
 Prima facie, he said, it appears that the killers had some animosity with the boy's mother and committed the crime in revenge.
 
 
