PUNE: A week after the January 1 violence in   near Pune during the 200th year celebration of the battle between the British forces made up of Mahar, Marathas, Muslims, Rajputs and Indian Jews and Bajirao II Peshwa’s army, the incident continues to have repercussions across Pune, Aurangabad, Sangli and Kolhapur.

 While the Pune rural police have filed 26 cases of rioting, attempt to murder and murder, in relation to the violence and have arrested 25 people, so far, they have not yet taken a call on the arrest of  , founder of  , and  , head of Samast Hindu Aghadi, both booked for incitement in the Koregaon Bhima violence. 
 
 “We have not yet arrived at any conclusion about their involvement and hence there is no decision on their arrest,” a Pune rural police officer told TOI on Sunday.
 
 In Sangli, the Republican Party of India (RPI) faction led by Union minister   has planned a morcha on Monday for Bhide and Ekbote’s arrest. The party unit in Sangli is protesting against Bhide’s statement on Friday to the effect that the law to prevent atrocity has given some sections of society authority to murder others. 
 
 Vivek Kamble, party's state working president said, "The law against atrocity protects dalits and 59 castes from injustice. Bhide has made the statement to cause unrest. Through the protest rally we will demand his and Ekbote’s arrest. By making statements on critical issues, Bhide is trying to divert attention from the injury to dalits at Koregaon Bhima violence."
 
 In Kolhapur, the Akhil Bharatiya Lingayat Samanvay Samiti, a committee formed in pursuit of the demand for separate religion status to Lingayat committee, is up in arms over Bhide’s statement suggesting that the community’s demand for separate religion status was one of the factors in the build up to the violence. 
 
 The Aurangabad police have identified 50 rioters and stone-pelters. Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) Deepali Dhate-Ghadge, who heads the team, said, “On Saturday, 30 rioters were identified with the help of CCTV footage and on Sunday 12 more. Five of them have been arrested. The process of identifying others and rounding them up is underway.” Sources said many suspects have gone underground. 
 
 
