Queen Mary's Girls School, Rohini, organised the candle light ceremony for classes X and XII. School principal Nalini Andrew welcomed the chief guest Anil Arora, Director of Partnerships, Earth Day Network and guests of honour Dr Manisha Pandey, Associate Professor, Hindu College, DU and Rev. Vikram Aziz Masih, Pastor Incharge, Bethel Methodist Church, Noida. The event commenced with the Lord"s prayer followed by the Bible reading, choir presentation "Light of the World" and a welcome dance. The guests lit the light of knowledge and passed it to the staff who passed it onto the outgoing students. Class XII students passed the light to class X students in order to keep this path of knowledge always illuminated. The class XII students were presented souvenirs by the guests. The ceremony ended with the release of school newsletter An Echo- Ek Goonj.

 
 
 
  
  
 Sri Venkateshwar International School (SVIS), Sector 18, Dwarka organised the national level 'Maha Behes 2017'. The event witnessed a participation of 29 schools from across the country with over 400 participants. The top qualifying teams from all the 'behes' tournaments this season battled it out to win the coveted title. Contestants participated in two categories - Cubs from classes VI - VIII and Lions from class IX - XII. They were given impromptu topics based on a suggested reading. The event was judged by the adjudicators from across the country. In 'Lions' category, winners were from DPS RK Puram (Gucci gang) and IPS Indirapuram. The SVIS team (Pacifiers) were the runners up. The winner 'cubs' team was from Maxfort School, Dwarka (A deck with only ace cards) and Queen's Valley, Dwarka (We solemnly swear we're up to no good) team were the runners up. Stubh Lal from SVIS was adjudged the 'Best Lions Speaker'. The 'Cubs Best Speaker' was Dhriti Narang from Maxfort School, Dwarka. The finale was followed by a vote of thanks by the organisers of "Behes" (NGO) and prize distribution ceremony. Shalini Singh, President, Tapindu Educational Society was the chief guest. Rita Singh, Director, Indirapuram Group of Institutions was the guest of honour. Senior wing headmistress R Banopreeya welcomed the guests with a green accord and school memento.
 
  
 
 
  
  
 DAV Public School, East of Loni Road, celebrated its annual function "Anugoonj." The programme started with DAV Gaan followed by lighting of the lamp by chief guest, Padmashree Dr Poonam Suri, President, DAVCMC and Arya Pradeshik Pratinidhi Sabha and other dignitaries at Yamuna Sports Complex. The students participated in various cultural activities and showcased their talents. School principal Sameeksha Sharma presented a report on the journey of the school. Prizes were given to the deserving students. The event culminated with a ballet 'Manurbhav'. TR Gupta (vice-president DAVCMC & school chairman); Dr NK Uberoi (vice-president DAVCMC & school vice-chairman); Dr Nisha Peshin (Director PS-2 DAVCMC) and Nanak Chand (school manager) were present.
 
 
  
 
  
 Gurukul - The School, Ghaziabad, held its annual fiesta - Bioscope. The students showcased their mesmeric moves through their thought-impelling performances woven together by the thread of music. The galaxy of guests lauded the display of young children's performances. School director Sachin Vats welcomed the guests and congratulated the entire team for their performance. Ira Singhal, topper of Civil Services exam and 2015 batch IAS, Padamshree Zafar Iqbal, former captain of Indian Hockey team and SL Jain, Director Mahavir Sr Model School graced the occasion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Panchsheel Public School, Jaitpur, Badarpur, conducted a health and hygiene workshop in the school auditorium. The purpose of the workshop was to sensitise the students and mothers about the importance of healthy diet and hygiene measures to promote better health. The event was presided over by special invitees Anamika Singh, councilor (ward No.97 S) Jaitpur, Dr Indu (gynaecologist) and Dr Mandakini Shukla (dentist) along with the school principal Neetu Hora. The programme commenced with the welcome of the guests followed by illuminating speeches delivered by them. Interspersed with various activities, informative speeches and interaction session with the invited doctors, the event was a great success.
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 Tagore International School, East of Kailash, organised the career fair. A workshop was held for students and the parents of classes XI and XII by experts from different fields. They were given the opportunity to view and assess a whole range of career options open to them. The career guidance and planning session by Pradeep Narayanan made the students and parents aware of the different opportunities available for higher education within and outside the country. A panel discussion was also conducted for the benefit of students. Various stalls were exhibited by universities and organisations that guided the students about the eligibility criteria, scholarship etc. that each course had to offer. These helped in widening the horizons of students and parents. School principal Mallika Preman stressed on the fact that making a career move is an important decision in one's life and thanked the parent and the student community for making the event a success.
 
 
  
 
 
  
 Suraj Bhan DAV Public School, Vasant Vihar was the winner of ISA award (2017-18) accredited by the British Council for the second time consecutively, the first being acclaimed in 2014-17. The ISA team of co-coordinators were assigned the projects, which were compiled and carried out at various levels. With the set objectives, multifarious activities were organised with the support of the students. The school compiled and finalised the projects and an e-dossier was submitted at the appointed schedule.
 
 
