SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Thursday approved settlement of arrears in BBMB projects in compliance to the   order of September 27, 2011, in terms of differential energy return. The return of differential energy quantum of 13,066 million units shall fetch an amount of Rs 3,266 crore to the state at an average rate of Rs 2.50 per unit.

 Chief minister   presided over the cabinet meeting in which approval was given to negotiation with Punjab and Haryana for return of entire differential energy within a period of 10-12 years. The cabinet also agreed for negotiation towards payment of liability of Rs 111.53 crore as computed by the Government of India in its affidavit in equal annual installments during the period of return of power and in case states of Punjab and Haryana insisted for repayment with interest, Himachal Pradesh would go in for return of power with a premium of 6% and with no further additional liability for receiving this differential energy of 13,066 million units.
 
 Approval was also given to the proposal of Punjab and Haryana to return differential power during October 1 to March 31 owing to their constraints of paddy harvest season and also requirement of Himachal Pradesh during winter months in the public interest. 
 
 It also gave approval to the governor address to be delivered in the first session of the 13th vidhan sabha to be held at Dharamshala from January 9.
 
 The cabinet also reviewed the decision taken in a meeting held on August 5 last year regarding deletion of Rule-5 (1) of the Demobilized Armed Forces Personnel (Reservation of Vacancies in Himachal State Non Technical Services) Rules, 1972 and Rule -5 (1) of the Ex-Servicemen (Reservation of Vacancies in Himachal Pradesh Technical Services ) Rules 1985 and decided to restore the benefits to the extent of fixation of pay in civil employment to the ex-servicemen. This decision will entitle them for monetary benefits.
 
 It gave its nod to fell few trees and saplings in private land transferred/ acquired by the National Highways Authority of India ( ) for four laning of NH-22 from Kandaghat to   in relaxation of ban imposed by the state government on felling of trees. The cabinet also accorded its approval to extend government guarantee for loan taken from HUDCO for housing project at Jathia Devi near Shimla Airport upto February 28, 2021.
 
 It also decided to continue the service of retired patwaris/kanungos engaged on contract basis till the new batch undergoing training is recruited so as to avoid inconvenience to the general public. It was decided to execute balance work of widening and strengthening of Theog-Kotkhai-Kharapathar road on which Rs. 29.310 crore is likely to be spent besides widening works of the Kharapathar-Rohru road.
 
 A detailed presentation on state financial resources was also given in the cabinet by the secretary (finance).   left over due to reckless opening of government institutions during previous government were also discussed in the cabinet. Suggestions were invited for expenditure compression besides the cabinet directed for quality of works and services, timely completion of projects without time and cost overrun.
 
