HYDERABAD: In a bid to decentralize   care and bring it closer to patients, the   government on Thursday joined hands with the   Trusts to create a comprehensive cancer care management network in the state that will not only deliver quality affordable cancer care but also focus on developing academic and research capabilities to take on the dreaded disease in the state.

 
 The tie-up will create a three-tier, state-wide cancer care network to take treatment to the patients by beefing up the existing public health system and infrastructure. This will ensure that no patient has to travel more than a few hours for accessing the full suite of cancer treatment services. Telangana principal secretary, health, medical & family welfare department, A  , and Tata Trusts managing trustee   also signed an   for the same here.
 
 
 
  
 
 Pointing out that cancer does not discriminate between the rich and the poor with the only differentiator being access to treatment, Tata Group chairman emeritus and Tata Trusts chairman, Ratan Tata, said: “We are privileged to partner with the Telangana government in upgrading cancer care capabilities in the public health network. Patients will no longer need to travel all the way to Hyderabad except for rare and complex conditions.”
 
 
 IT minister KT Rama Rao said Telangana has fourth highest incidence of cancer and urged Tata group to help the government come up with an L1 (superspecialty) greenfield hospital near Hyderabad on the lines of MNJ Institute of Oncology and Regional Cancer Centre. He said the state government has already joined hands with Tata Trusts on an ambitious programme to digitise the health records of all its citizens and suggested linking digitised health records of citizens to   to enable hospitals save precious lives.
 
 
 Cancer care model revolves around use of technology and task shifting to facilitate operations in remote areas, and patient-centric design principles to provide good in-hospital experience to patients. Hospitals will also take up an extensive awareness, screening and early detection programme. The initiative will galvanise entire public health system to play role in cancer care continuum and will be aplatform to utilise cancer related schemes of the Union and state governments such as National Oral Health, Tobacco Control, Palliative Care and Health Insurance programmes.
 
 
 Tata Trusts, which is working with governments of Assam, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, has put together a diverse group of top oncologists globally, leading cancer hospitals attached to National Cancer Grid and engineers to deliver on infrastructure needed to ensure timely and proper diagnosis and treatment.
 
