NEW DELHI: “The forces that killed Muslims and then burnt Dalits are now coming after our children, intruding into our homes,” chief minister   said on Thursday, condemning the attack on a school bus in Gurugram during protests over the film,  . He exhorted people to “speak up” against “divisive forces” now and not remain silent as they were when Muslims and Dalits were being attacked. The chief minister made these remarks during his speech to mark Delhi government’s   celebrations at   packed with students from various schools.

 Combative but emotional, Kejriwal said this platform was proper to flag the issue because as a person who loves his country, he cannot see so much violence. “It is a matter of shame for the entire country that just before Republic Day, a few kilometres from the national capital, our innocent children were pelted with stones,” he said. Immediately after the attack on Wednesday, Kejriwal had alleged that “violence was being allowed through inaction of the government” and called it “utterly shameful”.
 
 “When they attacked Muslims we were silent; when they burnt Dalits, we remained silent; now they have started pelting your children with stones – do not remain silent now. We need to raise our voice against this,” Kejriwal told the gathering after receiving the guard of honour from contingents of Delhi Police, Delhi Fire Services, NCC and groups of students from different schools.
 
 Talking about the violence involving the Padmaavat protests, the CM underlined the need to severely punish those who unleash violence in the name of religion and caste. He said those who had attacked the school bus in Gurugram deserved to be punished more severely than Ravana was punished by Lord Ram. “Some forces are trying to break the country in the name of religion and caste. Attempts are being made to spread hatred in society,” he observed.
 
 Kejriwal appealed to “the powers that be” with folded hands to check the violence. “People do not want violence, they want peace. Please spare us,” he said. 
 
 Later in the day, deputy CM Manish Sisodia said the attack on the school bus has sparked panic among parents as he joined Kejriwal in condemning it. Backing the screening of the movie, he claimed that a group of people from the Rajput community had met him on Thursday and were equally scared about the safety of their children. In a tweet to PM Narendra Modi, Sisodia alleged that the goons who attacked the school bus belonged to the BJP.
 
 Sisodia, who is himself a Rajput, went to watch Padmaavat on Thursday night with other members of the community.
 
 Meanwhile, Kejriwal said that there should be no “political interference” in the functioning of constitutional institutions because it undermines their functioning. He urged Sisodia to ensure that the burden of textbooks on the students is reduced and the focus is on making them good individuals. He promised that the government would improve availability of water in different areas of the city by setting up several sewer treatment plants from where treated water will be used to improve the water table.
 
 
