VISAKHAPATNAM: Four months after the state government framed the unified   for teachers, its implementation has been stuck in a limbo. The High Court imposed a status quo in September 2017 and teachers are now demanding the intervention of the government to break the logjam. 

 The state government had notified the unified service rules in September 2017 after brainstorming sessions down the past decades. 
 
 Even the government released several GOs for the immediate implementation of the unified service rules for teachers. Some teachers of government institutions moved to the court, seeking the status quo over the rules, and eventually, the issue got back to the square one. Before 1998, the recruitment of teachers in government and Panchayat   department schools would be carried out through different tests. However, the state government started appointing teachers through a single test that became a bone of contention.
 
 Opposing the move of the government, some teachers knocked on the door of the court. In 2015, the court directed both the states to come up with unified service guidelines. Former President   gave his assent to the unified service rule in 2017.In the absence of unified service rules, several other rules have been there for government and Panchayat Raj teachers before the bifurcation of the two Telugu states. Secretary General Federation of   (FAPTO)   said that the government would resolve the legal issue over implementation of the unified service rules.
 
 “Teachers are not getting promotions for decades and that is why, quality lecturers are not available with the District Institutes of Education Training (DIETs). There are about 90 per cent vacancies in the BEd colleges, while mandal educational officers (MEOs) are appointed on ad hoc basis. We discussed these issues with higher education officials yesterday and they assured us of launching a legal battle on their front,” he said. 
 
 Andhra Pradesh Primary Teachers’ Association state general secretary,   said they have called a state-wide bandh on January 29 on various issues, including the implementation of the unified service rules for teachers. 
 
 
