CHANDIGARH: The   has made it clear that no institute can refuse refund of a part of the annual fee if a student withdraws in between the session.

 The forum directed a citybased coaching institute,  , to refund fee amounting to Rs1.8 lakh to two complainants who left the institute in between and had asked for refund but were denied.
 The complaints were filed by  , a resident of Sector 21, Panchkula, and   of Sector 12, Panchkula. Since in both complaintsthesame questions of law and facts were involved with little difference of date of joining, thefee paid and classes attended, the forum disposed them of by a common order.
 
 According to  , he got his daughter admitted to the institute for preparation of Class XI medical stream after depositing the fee for the entire year amounting to Rs 1.04 lakh on December 10, 2016. It was stated that at the time of admission, it was promised that each student of the institute will be given personal attention and doubts cleared of weak students, but his daughter repeatedly told teachers and management that she did not understand the topics, the complaint said.
 
 She attended classes only up to March 2017. On an assurance given by the institute, he shifted her daughter from their Chandigarh centre to Panchkula but even there she faced problems. The complainant
 
 many a time demanded refund of the fee, paid several visits and representation followed by a legal notice, but to no avail.
 
 The institute in its reply said Joginder’s daughter had studied with it for seven months from December 2016 till June 2017 as per attendance sheet. It was stated that the refund policy says that thefirst refund will be provided within one month from thedateof admission and the institute had duly informed the complainant that he is not entitled for complete refund of the fee.
 
 The forum after hearing both the sides held “the sole purpose of students to join these private coaching institutions is only to get additional help to make him/her understand the subject in a better way and to prepare them to do well in the competitive examinations. As there is no barometer tojudge the quality of services provided by these types of coaching centres/institutes, it solely depends upon the subjective satisfaction of pupils/ students studying, who with their own experience, can adjudge the quality of services provided to them. The very purpose of joining these coaching centres/institutes is defeated once it is found that the quality of service, as agreed or promised, is not made available to the students.”
 
 The forum concluded the institute not only rendered deficient services but also indulged in unfair trade practice by withholding the fee for the unutilized period as the daughter of the complainant withdrew from the institute. “The coaching institute has no right to retain the fee of any student for the unutilized period for which services have been abandoned. It is the liability of the institute to refund such an amount to the student without any delay.”
 
 
