The   is just a day away and, as the state gears up to welcome investors including  ,   has sent out a strong message to  , saying   has to end to have investors coming in.

 “UP is plagued by the menace of prashasanik makarjaal (bureaucratic wrangles). Technology intervention will help counter this. We have digitalized the system of single window clearance for industry and the chief minister’s office will now monitor every step. Officers will have to explain if a file gets stalled beyond the deadline. Kisiko naukri karni hogi toh usko jawabdehi ke saath karni hogi (One has to be accountable to keep one’s job safe),” Yogi told TOI, in between directing his officers and working on the nitty-gritty of the investors’ summit.
 
 Asked whether the crackdown on criminals in the state, which saw a number of encounters between criminals and the police recently, was a part of a plan to gain investors’ confidence, with poor law and order situation being a major apprehension traditionally among industrialists, Yogi said: “When the Prime Minister and the party sent me to UP as chief minister, maintaining people’s trust became my responsibility. It was my responsibility to keep them safe and secure along with ensuring that basic needs of the people are met with.”
 
 “We had sent out a stern warning to criminals as soon as BJP came to power last year, with a clear message – If you kill, you will have to face the consequences. We cracked down on criminals without any bias. We did not pick and choose. We first warned them and then acted,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath.
 
 “Humne keh dia thha police pe goli chalaoge toh thik nahi hoga (If you fire on the police, you will have to pay for it). We can see the results today. Criminals are moving around on streets holding up placards saying ‘I am not a criminal.’ There has not been a single case where a BJP MP, MLA or worker has sheltered a criminal,” the CM said.
 
 Yogi felt incidents like violence in Saharanpur and Kasganj would not be a setback to his plans to attract investment. “Yeh samanya ghatnayen hain. Ise aap danga nahi keh sakte (These are routine incidents of crime. You cannot call them riots)”, he said.
 
 The CM insisted that everyone is being taken along on the path to development. “A body cannot be fully fit unless all its parts are fit. If one of my arms stops functioning, how can I work to my full potential? I will be called “divyang.” “Hum UP ko divyang nahi banne denge (We will not allow UP to turn disabled). We will take every caste and community together on the road to progress. Sabka vikas karenge (We will work for development of all). But, there will be no appeasement,” he said.
 
 
 
 
