MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday came down on heavily on   saying constables on duty can be seen at  , roads, corners “chit-chatting’’ or speaking on mobile phones. “Others are found under a tree. Main duty is talking or playing on the mobile. Incidental duty is to manage the traffic,’’ said  , who along with Justice Bharati Dangre, was hearing a   by constable Sunil Toke on “rampant corruption’’ in the department. 

 The judges said several such incidents are reported in newspapers and asked why no action is taken on them. They referred Wedneday’s TOI Citizen Reporter column which has a picture of a police vehicle breaking a traffic signal. “Make them (TOI Citizen Reporter) a complainant. That gentleman will have to prove whether it is a false complaint,” said Justice Dharmadhikari. 
 
 The bench directed traffic police brass to put out mobile phone numbers on which people can report traffic violations and even errant policemen. The court said they hope and trust that joint commissioner of police (traffic) Amitesh Kumar and DCP Ashok Dudhe will inform public about mobile numbers to receive complaints about officers/constables taking bribes from motorists or if they find constables misbehaving with public or are not found on duty. “Any dereliction should be viewed as a serious misconduct,” said the bench. They said the numbers should be widely publicised including on FM channels. Toke’s advocate Datta Mane said, “People should have some contact number on which a complaint can be made.”
  
  
 After reading the police affidavits on efforts made to see that motorists are not harassed, the judges said they are not satisfied with it, and asked: “Has it resulted in anything (change) at the ground level?’’ 
 
 The judges said it is easy to blame every other agency, including utilities that dig roads, for traffic jam. But it is the job of police to clear the traffic as they know where there is huge traffic or even illegal parking on footpaths and roads. “It is a shame people have to report traffic violations to you,” said Justice Dharmadhikari. 
 
 The judges said for every complaint, including if a traffic cop is not at a busy junction, the authorities say they will look into it. “What do you mean by look into? You are not supposed to give a clean chit,’’ said Justice Dharmadhikari. The judges expressed surprise when prosecutor Prajakta Shinde said out of 25 cops, against whom allegations of bribe were found to be true, only four were suspended.
 
 
