Yavatmal: Love always finds a way, even same-sex love. A gay couple got married with all the traditional Indian festivities at Yavatmal on December 30. One of the pair, an engineer from Yavatmal, succeeded in convincing his family, friends and acquaintances to solemnize his marriage with his partner. The police, the hotel where the event took place, and the restaurant attached to it conveniently looked the other way, considering the legal ambiguity regarding gay marriages in India. Hrishi Mohankumar Sathawane (40) got married to his partner Vinh, who is said to be from Vietnam, with the blessing of his family, friends and well wishers at a local wedding hall, a stone’s throw from the Superintendent of Police office. Hrishi, a BTech from Mumbai IIT, also holds a MBA degree from a US university. He currently stays in California and holds a US green card. His social media profile admits that his parents were against his homosexual affiliation. But he succeeding in convincing them, and many others in his circle, to bless him as he joined his gay fiance Vinh in wedlock. Sources said the couple had first met online, and the relationship gradually developed into a deep love affair. Photos on Hrishi’s social media account show the two got engaged in the middle of 2017, followed by an American wedding in October. So, the festivities at Yavatmal seem only the continuation of a long celebration of the couple’s love. The cops appeared to look the other way. SP M Rajkumar happened to be in Mumbai on some official appointment, and could not talk when asked to confirm the gay marriage on Friday. Similarly, Additional SP Amarsingh Jadhav and DSB police inspector Anil Gautam too did not want to comment. However, later, Jadhav said he has ordered City police station officer Yeshwant Baviskar to investigate and report to him. Hotel owner Altaf Gilani said one Mohankumar Sathawane, Hrishi’s father, had approached him and booked some rooms for a get-together. Gilani, however, refused to provide the identity of the occupants of his hotel rooms on December 30. Adjoining the hotel, the restaurant run by Gilani’s brother Aslam Gilani hosted the dinner party. Aslam only said Mohankumar Sathawane had contacted him for a party, and the menu was finalized. Some 40-50 guests came on December 30 and they were served food, he said. He too refused to say anything about the purpose, identity or nationality of the guests assembled at his restaurant for the marriage. Though the owners of the hotel and the restaurant claimed that it was a simple get-together, and the cops still plead ignorance, the Facebook posts of Hrishi and Vinh’s friends make it apparent the marriage was solemnized in Yavatmal, and they had attended it, and enjoyed the event. From the photos, it appears many same-sex couples too attended the wedding and enjoyed the festivities. Hrishi’s father simply said his son had opted for a gay marriage and it was solemnized at Yavatmal. However, their house remained locked. The wedding and its photos have now gone viral on social media. The photos had hundreds of likes and congratulatory comments, including an incredulous friend asking, “Did you two really get married?” Hrishi’s reply, “Yes, of course.” 