KOCHI: The search for the accused in the armed robberies in Kochi has been expanded to the border regions of West Bengal and Bangladesh. The move comes a day after the arrest of three persons involved in the robberies which was reported from the city last month. 

 Officials said that the Kerala police have sought help of the   to trace the absconding accused who are suspected to have fled to Bangladesh. "Arresting the rest of the gang is going to be a herculean task considering the fact that many of them are illegal migrants. They have fled to different parts of the country with most of them reaching Bangladesh through West Bengal border," said a police official.
 
 Officials said that the accused persons used to plan robberies and execute them after gathering at a particular location. Robberies are planned in locations which are distant from each other. Once the location is decided, the group travel to the region to research on the victims before executing the crime. 
 
 "The attacks happened after proper monitoring of the victims for days. The accused used to share the loot among themselves and travel to different locations making it difficult for the police to trace them," said a police officer. 
 
 Officials said that they suspect that some of the accused visited the state multiple times before as many of them were able to speak in  . The police are also trying to figure out whether the accused received assistance from any Kerala natives.
 
 Meanwhile, the accused who were arrested on Wednesday, will be interrogated once they are brought to Kochi on Sunday. The police team that arrested the accused in Delhi received a transit warrant to bring the accused to Kochi from a court in Delhi on Thursday. 
 
 The accused was tracked down by the police after a three-week-long analysis of tower locations, call records and   footage.
 
 The accused Arshad and Roni, both natives of Bangladesh and Shehzad, a native of Bihar were held from   area in North East Delhi.
 
 Meanwhile, the family which was robbed at Tripunithura expressed happiness over the news of the arrest. "It is quite happy to hear about the arrest of the persons who attacked us. We are yet to recover from the shock and are yet to even return to office for work," said  , who was thrashed by the accused before being robbed.
 
