Coimbatore: For someone who has more than 40 years of experience as a criminal lawyer, senior advocate C Gnanabharathi’s short stories provide a contrasting picture. His stories have an underlying humour even while speaking of tragic and difficult subjects. Gnanabharathi says he got this style from Malayalam writer Vaikom Muhammad Basheer. “He was one of the biggest influences on me,” he says. The 69-year-old has written just 24 stories in the past 46 years. “I count quality more than quantity,” he adds. Still practising, Gnanabharathi, who started his career as a lawyer in 1974, says he was a writer before he became a lawyer. In 1969, he joined the daily Theekkadhir as a sub-editor. He also worked in the editorial board of Semmalar, the Marxist party’s literary magazine. “Once we had a shortfall of material for four pages. To fill that, I wrote a story. That was when I found I could write a story,” he says. While working for the publication, the party asked him to study law to work for the student’s wing. “That’s how I became a lawyer,” he says. While in the party, he says, he read voraciously. He read Marxist theories and also literary works which made him a staunch Marxist, an ideological stance which he holds till day. But, he adds, his stories do not speak Marxist ideas overtly. “I write only when I think I can write a story from the subconscious,” he says. “Or else, it will be mechanical and a cerebral activity,” he adds. Though he meets several people from all walks of life in his career, Gnanabharathi says he doesn’t write about them directly. He says he takes time to process any incident or person he sees. Though he might be an effortless writer, he puts immense effort in the cases he deals with. He narrates how he disproved a bomb blast case by researching every detail of explosives, their kind and where they are manufactured. “I proved that the explosives used in the incident did not match the case particulars. It was a novel defence,” he says. Apart from Basheer, Gnanabharathi cites Subramania Bharathi, Pudumaipithan and Anton Chekhov as his inspirations. Fourteen of his stories were published as a collection titled ‘Moongil Kazhi’ in 2005. A reader has translated his stories into Malayalam, which were recently released as a collection titled ‘Perazhagi’. Gnanabharathi says he is in the efforts to publish 10 of his stories which he wrote from 2005.