VADODARA: The special operations group (SOG) of the city police busted a racket of dumping industrial waste into the   near Vadsar on Tuesday.

 Acting on a tip-off, SOG sleuths raided an illegally occupied waste dumping site on the river bank where the waste was being dumped for over one year. Police officials said that they had been keeping a watch around the area since quite some time and when they learnt that a tanker has reached there on Tuesday for disposing industrial waste, they raided the place and informed Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) officials.
 
 “The site is illegally occupied by one Bhikha Bhaliya, his son Deepak and nephew Mahesh. They had been extorting rent from other shopkeepers who are settled on the same land,” said H M Chauhan, in-charge police inspector, SOG.
 
 On visiting the site, it was found that the accused had formed a closure with tin shades and piles of garbage bags so that the illegal act cannot be suspected. A concrete structure was formed inside the closure where only a pipe has to be connected to an inlet to release industrial waste from the tanker. The other end of the inlet opened in the Vishwamitri River.
 
 GPCB officials went down to the river and tested samples of water which did not turn out to be acidic on measuring its pH level. However, the liquid which was in the tanker was emanating fumes and stink, said GPCB officials.
 
 “We have sent the sample of the tanker for test but preliminarily I can say that it was acidic in nature as its pH level was low and highly concentrated. We will wait for the analysis report and for the police to find the erring agency. Once the involvement of the person or agency comes forth, we will take action against them,” said N A Shah, in-charge regional officer, GPCB Vadodara.
 
 Shah later registered complaint against unidentified persons at Manjalpur police station for negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance and fire or combustible matter, fouling water of the river, making atmosphere noxious to health, attempting to commit culpable homicide, endangering life or safety of others, criminal conspiracy and for violation of Environment Protection Act.
 
 Police also found orders of GPCB addressed to two companies based at Piludra in Jambusar and Kalol in Gandhinagar in the tanker.
 
 “The action which is usually taken by the corporation or GPCB is not stringent enough. This kind of dumping is actually contempt of Supreme Court’s order. Right now, this may seem like a big racket and an FIR will be registered, but this needs to be followed up,” said environment activist Rohit Prajapati. He added that in reality criminal action needs to be taken against the tanker owner and besides serving closure notice to industry whose waste was being dumped, the consent should also be cancelled.
 
 Earlier in May last year, a similar racket was busted by residents of Jambuva near the city. The residents had raised an alarm following which GPCB and police had found two tankers which had already dumped the waste in  . There too, the accused had formed a similar concrete structure for dumping the waste. The samples collected from the pipe revealed that the liquid was acidic.
 
 
