COIMBATORE:   University has decided to stop the franchise system of distance education from the coming academic year.

 While the existing franchise centres wouldn’t be renewed, students, who are currently undergoing the programmes there, would be allowed to write the exam, said the higher education secretary, Sunil Paliwal.
 
 Citing that the decision was taken to comply with the 2018-19 norms of University Grants Commission ( ), Paliwal said they have sought applications from the affiliated higher education institutions to act as the learner supporter centre for the students, who opt for distance education.
 
 “We have held discussions with the principals of private colleges and we expect a positive reply,” he said, adding that the varsity has given them time till June 18.
 
 Pointing out that the university used to generate more than Rs 60 crore revenue through the distance education system, a syndicate member said, “By closing the franchise system, the university are staring at a huge revenue loss. We are working out plans to tackle the loss.”
 
 Meanwhile, as per the UGC norms, only those universities, apart from open universities, which have valid accreditation of   (NAAC) with minimum Cumulative Grade Points Average (CGPA) of 3.26 on four-point scale could apply for distance education. But Bharathiar University, even though ranked 12th in the country in NIRF raking, has managed to score only 3.11 under  .
 
 Commenting on the same, Paliwal said the state governments have approached the UGC seeking relaxation of up to 3 for the state universities. “We are expecting a positive reply.”
 
 While three universities in the state have managed to score more than 3.26 under NAAC, some of the states do not have a single university, which managed to score above that, said a syndicate member.
 
 None of the private colleges seem to be interested to act as learner supporter centre, said a principal of private college, on condition of anonymity, adding that while more than 90% of colleges voted not to act as learner supporter centre, remaining colleges have preferred not to comment.
 
 “When the university is yet to get approval from UGC to run distant education courses, why should they hold discussion with private colleges,” the principal asked, adding that no decision was communicated to the university authorities.
 
 
