MUMBAI: Probably for the first time, the BMC chief’s inquiries department has been directed to probe why nearly two dozen corporators did not go for a ‘study tour’ organized for them to J&K two years ago in 2016. 

 The BMC had made a payment of Rs 7.63 lakh towards the stay and other arrangements for the corporators. The issue came up when the civic body’s municipal secretary department sought that the amount spent on making the travel arrangements and stay be written off. 
 
 The BMC markets and gardens committee, was scheduled to go on a five-day study tour to J&K in February 2016 but decided to cancel it at the eleventh hour after realizing that many corporators from the BMC’s standing committee were facing flak for their trip to Andaman and Nicobar islands.
 
 The trip to the Andamans ran into a major controversy with the opposition branding it as a junket. Sena corporators were then directed by their party seniors not to go on any more tours. “While there are 36 corporators on the BMC markets and gardens committee, 22 among them had shown interest in attending the tour. Arrangements were made for their stay in a three-star hotel and also their flight tickets had been booked. But no one went for the trip, causing a huge loss to the BMC,” A civic official said. Recently, the civic administration was requested by the municipal secretary department to waive Rs 7.63 lakh spent, but they decided to point it out. The inquiries department has been asked to look into why the corporators backed out of the tour. 
 
 A source privy to the inquiry said, “While one or two corporators dropping out of the tour could have been accepted, here everyone backed off at the last minute. Therefore the administration is keen to understand if these charges can be recovered which at this point appears to be not feasible.” TOI spoke to some corporators, who were part of the BMC markets and gardens committee in 2016, and questioned them as to why they did not go for the tour. Former   corporator   said that he decided not to go on the tour, but did not elaborate further. 
 
 Former corporator   said he decided against going for the tour as he found it of no use. “We keep going on tours by ourselves and I felt that this trip would not be helpful in any way,” he said.
 
 
