God has given man five senses — that of sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell. But a rare few have an extrasensory perception also known as sixth sense. That is exactly what my new game show   is all about,” declares celebrity anchor-turned-filmmaker  , who is all set to return to the small screen with his new show that will kick off today. Excerpts...

 
 
 Representatives of Star MAA approached me to do a show for them while I was shooting for   2. I just couldn’t find time for it, so it did not materialise. Initially, we thought of going ahead with a tried and tested format but after the success of Raju Gari Gadhi and its sequel, I knew the audience will expect something different. So, I decided to do something yet simple. That’s how I hit upon the concept of Sixth Sense. I would also like to mention the DoP R  , a key factor behind the show. He has worked with me for all my films and 
 his expertise will take Sixth Sense to an entirely different dimension.
 
 
 
 It will pit two celebrities against each other over tasks that will test their extra sensory perception. Besides the five senses, they will need to rely on their sixth sense as well to emerge winner. You need to watch it to find out. I can assure you that it will be engaging for sure.
 
 
 
 Getting trolled is not new for me. When ladies like  ,   and   were ruling the roost, I arrived on the scene and created a niche for myself with the smash hit dance-reality show Aata. The kids on the show used to address me as Annayya (elder brother) and that became my calling card across the two Telugu speaking states. But, fame comes with its share of criticism as well. I think I was probably the first celebrity anchor in Telugu television to be trolled, and that has been a constant throughout my journey till date. 
 
 
 There is nothing you can do about it. The trolls do it just to make a few people laugh. Initially, I was flattered because getting trolled meant that you were getting noticed in B and C centres too like film stars. Now, I just ignore them and I don’t read the comments unless someone specifically brings something to my notice. But sometimes, they (trolls) are very witty and highly creative. On such occasions, I feel that the trolls can be very successful in life if they channelise their creativity in the right direction. 
 
 Why did you decide to return to TV after having directed two successful films?
 TV is my base and it has made me what I am today. Besides, the popularity and reach of TV is on a par with that of films. That is why nowadays, you find many movie stars working in television as well. I believe that you can be successful in both mediums provided you know how to manage your time. In my case, I’m doing this show because I have a gap of at least 6-8 months before my next film, which will be a sports-based one, will go on floors. In the meantime, I will be completely focused on Sixth Sense. Depending on the response to it, we will decide our future course of the show. As of now, I’ll be devoting only 4 to 6 days a month to TV, so there will not be any stress involved. 
 
 
 I enjoy my success but I don’t go overboard with my celebrations as expectations increase with every victory and this realisation helps to keep me grounded. The lowest point was when a human rights violation case was filed against Aata programme alleging that we were exploiting children and that their attire in the show was obscene. The allegation was made on the basis of one small clip from the show and even that clip made its way into the episode as I did not personally oversee the editing on that occasion. But I love children and we took very good care of them. That controversy was blown out of proportion and it hurt me a lot. 
 
 
 
 I have a five-year-old daughter Amrutha. She is my stress buster. I don’t go out much but when Amrutha asks me to take her out or buy her something, I do. At the end of the day, whatever we as parents do or achieve is for our children only, right? 
 
 
