

 
 
  I come from a family of doctors and my mom works as hard as my dad. In fact, I would love to see my girlfriend earning more than me. I am glad that people are talking about gender equality now, because people still don’t accept women working in night shifts, while it’s ok for a guy to do that.
 
 Life has changed for everybody, be it men or women, and so have the expectations. I am making my own money to support my lifestyle, so money is secondary when it comes to marriage. I chose to be an actor and my work demands odd work hours and late nights. Not many understand what it takes to be in this profession. I don’t want someone who just loves me a lot, but someone who will understand me and won’t bother me when I am working. Not just work, even if I am partying late, I wouldn’t want a guy to question my whereabouts. Being concerned is great, as long as he is not insecure. Along with being compatible, I expect the man to accept me the way I am. 
 
 In India, there are families who still expect dowry and make choices for a woman on whether she should be working after marriage. We are still not as liberal as we pretend to be. It’s a woman’s right to decide what she wants to do.
 
 
 
 
 I am not commitment-phobic, but I see a lot of millennials dealing with this issue. Everyone wants everything fast as we live in the digital age. Life has become so cluttered for these youngsters that marriage has become a scary word. I am the kind of guy who will stick to one person and respect that relationship. I am not scared of the word marriage. I come from a background where I have grown up believing that if I am in a serious relationship, I will marry that girl. 
 
  I am a girl who is scared of marriage because I am not sure if I am ready for it. Marriage is too sacred for me to say something like, ‘it’s not working out, so let me get a divorce’. I can end a relationship but, I don’t think I can end a marriage. 
 
 Marriage is for life. I feel people make hasty decisions these days and regret later. It‘s important to plan your future and offer a certain financial security to your loved ones. You have to have clarity of thought.
 
 
 
 
 Respect is what matters the most to me. Also, what irritates me is when people try to change each other in a relationship.
 
 I can’t stand disrespect that stems from lack of values.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  I tend to make friends easily and I have learnt my lesson. I’ve been friendly with people who I shouldn’t have been friends with, as I’ve been backstabbed so many times. I have stopped trusting people now. You must take your time to understand what a person is really like. 
 
  Be it your partner or friend, I think you get to know the person only after you spend a considerable amount of time with them. There are very few people who are true to their persona. So, I don’t tend to trust people easily.
 
  I take people at face value because there is no time to sit and wonder if a person is actually what he/she pretends to be like. I trust people and move on, unless someone backstabs me. 
 
 
 
 
  I think girls tend to talk more about their relationship with their female friends. We did this, went here, ate that, my boyfriend is funnier than yours etc. Boys are in fact more secretive than girls in a relationship.
 
 Girls will always keep certain things a secret, but boys will go all out to tell their male friends all the possible details of their relationship, including the intimate bit. We might talk a lot more, but we know where to draw the line as well. 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, the equation changes as priorities change. He will take her out for dinner, go to movies with her and won’t see the same film with us again. This is bound to happen so you have to make peace with the fact that either this girl will be a part of the group, depending on the equation she shares with you or you will have to play the second fiddle to her.
 
 For men, a best friend is like a bhai, who knows you from the beginning. The girl steps in later, so it becomes important for a guy to see these two getting along as they both are important to him. 
 
 
 
 
  In real life, I don’t have a problem being the third wheel, unless I don’t like my best friend’s girlfriend. If I have a good rapport with both of them, I don’t mind it. It’s interesting to see how your friend transforms into another person in front of a girl, as it’s a new relationship. It gives me the benefit to hang out with two people and be on my own when I want to be. 
 
  I am not comfortable being a third wheel. Once, I tried to be a wingman for my friend. It got complicated because he feared that I might woo the girl. I almost lost my friend because of it.
 
 My best friends are boys, so when their girlfriends come into picture, our equation changes to another level. I can’t behave normally with them anymore. I can’t call them at 2 in the morning and ask for help, nor can I be distant. So, it gets difficult. 
 
  
  
 
 
