WASHINGTON: US President Trump joked about emulating China’s Xi Jinping’s efforts at a powergrab that would make him “president-forlife”, but even on a day of light-hearted banter in  , the remarks generated a frisson of discomfort through a liberal commentariat worried about the message it sent both to Beijing and to the American public.

 The comments came not at a jokey, backslapping evening at the annual Gridiron Club meeting in Washington but at a fundraiser earlier in the day at his Mar-a-Lago estate, where he hosted Xi last April. “He’s now president for life. President for life. And he’s great,” Trump told   donors, according to a recording CNN obtained. “And look, he was able to do that. I think it’s great. Maybe we’ll give that a shot some day.”
 
 While the tone suggested he might have been kidding — the comment generated laughter — some critics pointed to his oft-expressed penchant for parades and pageantry to wonder if the US President harboured dictatorial thoughts.
 
 “But whether this was a joke or not, talking about being President for life like   is the most unAmerican sentiment expressed by an American President. George Washington would roll over in his grave,” tweeted Ro Khanna, Democratic Congressman from California. Another columnist noted that “if Trump hadn’t already expressed admiration for a catalog of authoritarians... and his intense love affair with Putin, I might be willing to cut him slack on Xi”.
 
 But a few hours after the Mar-a-Lago bombshell, the US President walked into the lion’s den so to say — the annual Gridiron Club dinner where the media and the establishment joke and josh bonhomously with each other, and which he had stayed away from last year.
 
 Some of his jokes were outstanding, although some critics carped about how he insulted his wife and family.
 
 “So many people have been leaving the  ,” Trump said of recent staff turnover. “It’s invigourating since you want turnover. I like chaos. It really is good. Who’s going to be the next to leave? Steve Miller, or  ?” In an oblique reference to the #freemelania hashtag, he insisted, “She’s actually having a great time.”
 
 He also lined up his son-inlaw Jared Kushner, saying, in reference to his recent security clearance woes, “We were late tonight because Jared could not get through security.”
 
 He said he’d offered Jeff Sessions a ride to the dinner, but that the attorney general had “recused himself ”.
 
 And on his vice-president  : “I really am very proud to call him The Apprentice... But he’s showing a particularly keen interest in the news these days. He is asking has he been impeached yet? I don’t like that.” Trump said his staff was concerned he couldn’t do self deprecating humor, but “I told them not to worry. Nobody does self-deprecating humour better than I do.”
 
