GHAZIABAD: A sub-inspector of police was suspended on Wednesday for his alleged involvement in illegal   activities in the district. The sub-inspector,  , allegedly headed a syndicate that operated from the floodplains of the   in Ghaziabad.

 Sand mining anywhere along the   floodplains is prohibited by the district administration.
 
 The suspension order of Singh was issued by SSP Vaibhav Krishna on Wednesday evening. Singh is currently posted as the in-charge of Hindon Pul police outpost, located along GT Road of Ghaziabad. It comes under the jurisdiction of Sahibabad police station.
 
 The SSP has also ordered a departmental inquiry into Singh’s activities during his tenure in the district. He was suspended following a spot inspection of the Hindon floodplains on Wednesday during which nearly half a dozen persons were arrested along with tractor trolleys carrying illegally mined sand.
 
 The spot inspection was undertaken by the circle officers of crime branch and Sahibabad area, Rakesh Mishra and Anoop Singh, respectively, on SSP Krishna’s orders.
 
 “The inspection was ordered after a receipt of a phone call that rampant   activities were underway on the floodplains. A team headed by two senior police officers of the district was rushed to the spot. They arrested nearly half-a-dozen persons with vehicles. On sustained interrogation, these men confessed that they were part of a syndicate that was run in the area by sub-inspector Rajendra Singh,” Krishna told TOI.
 
 Singh joined UP police as a constable and had risen over the years to become a sub-inspector. “Further course of action against Singh will be decided after completion of a departmental inquiry. An FIR is yet to be registered against him,” Krishna said.
 
 According to the administration, there is only one lease for sand mining anywhere in the district. The lease has been awarded on the floodplains of   near Pachera village in Loni.
 
 “No lease whatsoever has been handed out for sand mining on the floodplains of Hindon river. The lease in Pachera village had been awarded to a firm through an e-auction nearly five months ago. The lease area on the Yamuna floodplains in Pachera is properly defined through GPS co-ordinates. Recently, a survey conducted by the administration in Pachera had revealed that sand was being mined by transgressing the leasehold area that has been delineated. Action had been taken against the firm,” sub-divisional magistrate   said.
 
