THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: More than 600 orphanages in Kerala will face closure if they fail to register under Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act-2015 by March 31 as per the latest Supreme Court order on Feb 19. The state government has alerted the child care Institutions (CCIs) including Orphanages to register under JJ Act-2015 and is set to make an announcement on Friday to comply with the   directive.

 Of the 1195 Institutions in Kerala, 585 have applied for registration under JJ Act till Jan 15. More orphanages are expected to register before March 31 as stipulated by the Supreme Court,   (SJD) officials told TOI. As per Section 42 of the JJ Act, if the child care institutions fail to register under JJ Act and if not complied with  , then they can be asked to close down or face penalty of Rs 1 lakh or one year imprisonment or both, the officials said.
 
 “All CCIs including orphanages will have to register under JJ Act 2015 by March 31 and those who fail to register will have to shut down. No one want the children to be left out. JJ Act includes children in need of care and protection and children in conflict with law. An advertisement was issued directing the orphanages and other CCIs to register under JJ Act-2015 before March 31,” Social Justice Department secretary Biju Prabhakar told TOI. If the orphanages fail to register under JJ Act, then they will have to be shut down as per the court order.
 
 The reason why most orphanages are reluctant to register under JJ Act-2015 is that they will be held accountable and they cannot directly admit the children. Registration under JJ Act-2015 will mean that the children in need of care and protection will have to be placed before the   ( ) before admitting the child in orphanage. It also recommends regular inspection of the orphanages by a team led by district child protection officer with an orphanage management committee, SJD officials said.
 
 Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KeSCPCR)   said once the orphanages register under JJ Act-2015, then it will conduct the social audit and monitor the functioning of the CCIs.
 
 While, some of the CCI members indicate that they are hesitant to register under JJ Act-2015 because the JJ Rules specify that in a Children’s Home of 100 inmates it is mandatory to have minimum 25-member qualified staff, for strength of 50 inmates it calls for 14-member qualified staff. The rules specify that a total of 8495 sq. feet area is required for a child care institute with 50 inmates. Then, it makes it mandatory to get the permit of CWC to admit a child in an orphanage or child care institute. 
 
 However, district child protection officer KK Subair says that the JJ Act-2015 only mentions about suggested pattern of infrastructure and staff for running child care institutions.
 
 In its latest verdict, the High Court held that all child care institutions including private orphanages run without state aid will have to register under JJ Act 2015 to ensure the facilities in such institutions in the best interests of the child and to ensure the child’s dignity of life. However, the private orphanages running without the state aid will have no obligation to follow the model rules framed under the JJ Act 2015. If at all, any of the child care Institutions are not able to provide the facilities, then, the government is committed to expend funds to provide such facilities and there would be no question of children being thrown out into the streets. The Court held that if such private orphanages running without state aid fail to set the standards under JJ Act 2015, then their closure will mean that state will take control over the children and not the management or assets of such an orphanage.
 
