THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   (KIAL), which is nearing take-off stage, will operate 20 flight services daily to 11 regional and seven international destinations, to begin with. 

 The domestic destinations will be connected by private carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet, who won the bids under the regional connectivity scheme known as Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik). The domestic destinations include Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Goa, Hubballi, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Solapur and Hindan (Ghaziabad). Of this, Chennai and Bengaluru will be connected by both SpiceJet and IndiGo. IndiGo will operate services to Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 While IndiGo will operate six services from the airport daily, SpiceJet will have four. "This is the largest number of bids won for a new airport among the list. While the flight operations to Chennai, Hindan and Bengaluru will be without viability gap funding (VGF), the remaining five will have the same,"   International Airport Limited managing director P Balakiran said. The services to Hubballi, Delhi, Goa, Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram will be covered by VGF that has been fixed at Rs 48.94 crore, of which the share from the state will be Rs 9.78 crore.
 
 Through the Udan scheme, the government aims at making flying affordable by capping fares at Rs 2,500 per seat per hour. The state government had last week inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the ministry of civil aviation on Udan.
 
 Meanwhile, the international sectors will be connected by Jet Airways, GoAir and other flyers like Air India, Air India Express and  . While   and GoAir have confirmed the services to Abu Dhabi and Dammam respectively, talks are on with other airlines. "The decision on the international flyers will be finalised soon," Balakiran said. The other international destinations include Sharjah, Muscat, Riyadh, Doha and Kuwait.
 
 Once the airport is opened to traffic, the airlines will decide on the timings of operations. The airport is expected to be operational in the last quarter of current calendar year.
 
 
