NAGPUR: Now in its 5th year, the annual Nagpur Food and   Festival, held on Saturday and Sunday, saw a surge in the footfall. Started in a bid to introduce the city to the wine culture, the festival was hosted at the lawns of Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. It also saw the introduction of new wine flavours well as launch of new titles.

 The registration counter was shut after 9pm on Sunday, when the organizers sold out all 2500 welcome kits. Post that, visitors were given free entry, only for the purpose of buying wine. Discussing the number of visitors to last year, organizer Deepak Khanuja said, “In 2016, we saw a total of 1800 people who came on both days. This time around, we had 2500 people. Our objective is to shift the culture from consumption of lard liquor to wine, which is beneficial for health. ”
 
 For the first time at the festival, visitors chanced upon fruit flavours introduced by Pune-based Rhythm Winery, started in 2011. Using Cenin Blanc variety of grapes as base, director Akalpit Prabhune presented wine in peach, strawberry,   and pineapple flavours. “The idea was to connect to people who hadn’t tried wine before, and introduce them to the wine culture by presenting a flavour they were familiar with. It is a new concept for India, and it is gaining acceptance,” said Prabhune.
 
 Celebrating 25 years of existence, Grover Zampa introduced wine lovers to their recently launched sparkling wine, Auriga, made using traditional technique of fermenting white wine in bottle for 12 months. “We aim to target the wedding season,” said  , head of marketing.
 
 Sula projected their flavour, Brute Tropicale, having 70 per cent red and 30 per cent white wine as their star flavour, and also presented their newly launched whiskey as well as brandy, both made from grape spirit. All brands sold wine for nearly 20 per cent less than MRP. 
 
 Six winery stalls headlined the two day extravaganza, along with food and other stalls. Grape stomping sessions were a major highlight on both days and on Saturday, was graced by industrialist  . The festival is hosted every year by   and Nagpur Agro Development Association.
 
 
