MEERUT: The 15-year-old daughter of a priest at a temple in Ghaziabad’s   area, who was a student of Class X, was abducted, allegedly gang-raped and then murdered. Her mutilated body, which bore marks of torture with cigarette butts, was found in a field in   area of   late on Friday, a fortnight after she was reported missing. 

 A case of abduction was filed following a complaint by the girl’s father at Modinagar police station on December 27. However, no action was taken, claimed the father. “Some youths had abducted my daughter. I had got a complaint registered at the Modinagar police station and also produced a mobile number of one the kidnappers, but the police didn’t take any effort to trace them,” the girl’s father said, alleging that her daughter was gangraped by the accused before she was murdered. 
 
 The FIR was registered on December 27 under sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (abducting a woman to compel her for marriage) of IPC against unidentified persons. The girl is the third of five siblings including three sisters and two brothers. Local residents, backed by right-wing organisations, staged huge protests on Saturday, blocking NH 58 in Modinagar for hours. 
 
 The girl’s family members told TOI that she had left home around noon on December 26 after being reprimanded by her mother, as she found her in possession of a mobile phone that had not been given to her by her parents. “Her tutor told me on December 24 that she had been playing with a mobile phone during tuition classes. That evening I asked her if she possessed a mobile phone but she denied. 
 
 On the evening of December 25, I found the mobile phone from our washroom in the courtyard where she had hidden it under a pile of papers and old books. I didn’t allow her to go to school on December 26. I scolded her and slapped her when she did not divulge as to who had given the phone to her. When I was outside, she took out the SIM card from the phone and threw it away after breaking it to pieces. Around 12 noon, she went to the washroom. She went to a water tank in the courtyard after emerging from the washroom. After that she went missing. We searched in the local area immediately but she was not to be found,” her mother told TOI. “Meerut police has recovered the body and sent it for post-mortem. Several teams have been formed to investigate the matter and we would soon work out the case,”  , superintendent of police (rural),  , said without divulging details of the probe. 
 The incident comes a little more than a week after the gang rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl after she was kidnapped from NH 91 in Bulandshahr. Notably, the entire Modinagar police station staff of 132 personnel was disbanded by senior superintendent of police Hari Narayan Singh last year after a 14-year-old girl was kidnapped and murdered in September 2017.
