Bengaluru: Not paid   for five months now, a government school staffer has written to governor Vajubhai Vala seeking permission to undergo   if he doesn’t get his pay.

 “My salary is due since September last year. As I could not pay house rent, the landlord has thrown us out and we have no place to stay. I don’t have money to ensure three square meals for my four dependents, leave alone buying medicine for my high blood pressure. I seek your intervention to ensure I get my salary or be allowed to undergo euthanasia,” wrote Mohan Kumar T G, a non-teaching staffer.
 
 Mohan is among the 11 teachers and three non-teaching staffers who were shifted from Government New Fort High School in Chamarajpet to Government VK Obaidullah High School in Shivajinagar, after the government decided to shut down the former last year. After being moved to the new school on June 6, 2017, they were paid wages for three months, but their salary stopped from the month of September.
 
 Between attending their duties in the school, they have been running from pillar to post for their salaries, but to no avail. When contacted, Mohan declined to say anything. 
 
 “After shifting us, the education department had to take steps to transfer our salary accounts too. But it has not been done till date,” said Gowri Bhat, a mathematics teacher who is also affected.
 
 Government New Fort High School comes under Bengaluru South district and the Shivajinagar school under Bengaluru North. As a procedure, the deputy directors (DDPI) of both the districts had to inform the Bengaluru urban zilla panchayat about shifting of the staff so that the authorities could have re-allocated the wage disbursal. 
 
 The situation could turn critical if the education department fails to ensure the teachers and other staffers get their salary by March 15. Salary allocation has to be done afresh in accordance with the budget for the new financial year starting April 1. 
 
 The staffers were given their pay for the first three months as the education department could adjust it towards salary of the existing vacancies in the north district. It was stopped once the vacancies were filled subsequently.
 
 We weren’t informed 
 
 I don’t think the ZP has received any communication from the education department. Had the DDPIs of south and north districts informed us, we would have re-allotted the salary by this time. Let me talk to the DDPIs and think of the future course of action
 
 MS Archana, CEO, Bengaluru Urban Zilla Panchayat
 
 Practical issues delayed process
 
 Following relocation of the staff, salaries should have been shifted immediately. Due to some practical issues, it did not happen. Now that the DDPIs have decided to meet the the ZP CEO on Tuesday, I hope the issue will be resolved
 
 B H Aswathanarayana Gowda, DDPI, Bengaluru South
 
 
