AURANGABAD: The civic administration in association with Aurangabad Development Forum conducted Mahaswachhata Abhiyaan over the weekend in which over 650 tonne of debris was lifted with the help of tippers and tractors from the main roads of the city. 

 Aurangabad Development Forum’s  , who has also been appointed as a ‘swachhata doot’ for the city by Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ), stated the concept behind organising the mega cleanliness drive was to revive the aesthetic appeal of the city and invite citizens to take part in the beautification process. 
 
 AMC had provided nine excavators (debris-lifting vehicles) and 23 tippers for the purpose. On Saturday, 60 tippers were used to lift debris. 65 tippers lifted tonnes of debris on Sunday. 
 
 The two-day campaign was marked by mass participation of citizens, NGOs and various citizen groups. The Aurangabad Development Forum also worked on making the road from Varad Ganesh Mandir to   dust-free.
 
 Darak said that the Mahaswachhata Abhiyaan was focussed on reducing dust in the air of the city. “Along with lifting of construction waste, participants painted 1,000 to 1,200 trees and pillars to add to the aesthetic beauty of the city,” said Darak. 
 
 Divisional commissioner Purushottam Bhapkar, mayor  , deputy mayor Vijay Autade and deputy commissioner   were some of the dignitaries who attended the inauguration of the campaign. 
 
 While Bhapkar appealed to the organisations in the city to volunteer in assisting the civic body in maintaining the cleanliness of the city, Ghodele was all praise for Aurangabad Development Forum to whom he attributed to have initiated a public movement. 
 
 Incidentally, the air quality action plan submitted by AMC to the Central Pollution Control Board credits a significant share of air pollution to the construction and demolition activities in and around the city. 
 
 Construction debris and soil garbage was lifted from different roads across the nine zones of the city and along the Jalna Road stretch from Baba Petrol Pump to Cidco Bus Stand. 
 
 “The debris was dumped at a private land near Mondha Naka which has a huge fissure. The debris has been buried in that cavity,” said Darak. 
 
 
