HYDERABAD: K Ravinder Reddy, the fourth additional metropolitan  , Hyderabad, resigned on Monday, hours after pronouncing the judgement in the   blast case, surpirsing many. While there was speculation on the timing of his resignation, judicial sources at Hyderabad Criminal Courts complex said that the judge cited personal reasons for his resignation. He was also nearing retirement. He urged the judicial authorities to accept his resignation and proceeded on 15 days leave.

 Strangely, a section of lawyers soon took to social media and alleged that they made a complaint to the high court about his corrupt practices and this resignation is a fall out of those complaints. But judicial sources in the high court dismissed them as mere rumors.”We have not received any complaint against this judge,” the sources said. 
  
 At the same time, the sources said the zero tolerance approach being adopted by the current authorities of the   is sending shock waves among the judicial officers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Upon receiving complaints about judges, the HC authorities are conducting a discreet and preliminary inquiry. If they come to a satisfactory conclusion that there is some truth in the allegations, they are straightaway referring the matter to ACB for registration of criminal case and further investigation. Sometimes, it was ACB which sought a nod from the HC authorities.
 
 
 
 Ravinder Reddy was the President of   association that spearheaded a revolt and had even resorted to a rally on Hyderabad roads demanding immediate bifurcation of subordinate judiciary. Their association was opposing the retention of AP-origin judges in  
 
 There are also rumours that there will be many more cases in the offing. It was in this background, judge Ravinder Reddy’s resignation too was sought to be linked with the corruption angle. But judicial sources in the HC themselves have rejected this in his case. There were also rumours that he has plans to join politics and that he may sail with one of the newly formed political outfits. But there is no confirmation on this yet.
 
