

 
  Her role of Mitravinda in the 2009 blockbuster Magadheera (2009 ) put her on the path of glory in South cinema. a decade later, with more than 50 films under her belt, Kajal Aggarwal is a super star in her own right. 2017 has been especially good for the actress with a slew of hits such as Khaidi No 150, Vivegam and Nene Raju Nene Mantri. 
 
 
 Was rumoured to be dating a businessman at one point of time but nothing came of it. So, single.
 
  This baby face with an hourglass figure is one woman the Telugu men will never tire of. Her popularity even after 10 years in films is testimony to that. This ‘Chandamama’ of Tollywood has a killer smile, but the four Filmfare Awards in her kitty prove that it’s not just her looks which got her to where she is today.
 
  
 
 
 
  This Punjabi kudi made her Tollywood foray in 2013 and has worked with all the leading actors in Telugu and Tamil cinema, ever since. In a career spanning 
 nine years, she has done nearly 25 films and is focussing on B’wood now. 
 
  Single, no time 
 to mingle, what with a kitty full of films
 
  A potent mix of cute, nice, hot and sexy, Rakul is a heart-breaker, alright! And when she bares that toned mid-riff, the hearts just stop beating!
 
 
  
 
 
 
 After winning the silver medal at Rio Olympics, Sindhu has been hailed as Indian sport’s next big thing, the one to carry forward the baton of Indian badminton. But more than anything else, it is the long, arduous path she has traversed to get to where she is today that marks her out as a role model for the youth of India. 
 
 : Single
 
  Her lithe frame, her reach, her jump, her unflappable temperament, and those endless legs....there’s plenty to dig about Sindhu. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : This spunky chica gave ’em boys a ‘Heart Attack’ with her Tollywood debut, and has since been a regular on the Tollywood. She has also forayed into reality TV as a judge where her presence was one of the star attractions. Known to speak her mind, the Tamil girl 
 has a handful of projects in B-town as well. 
 
 : Reportedly single.
 
 : A chameleon in the true sense, she changes her look at the drop of a hat, keeping her fans guessing. From purple hair to fiery red locks, from dressing like Charlie Chaplain to oozing oomph in her bralette while pulling off some hot yoga moves — Adah has got everyone hooked. And after her kick-ass action moves in Commando-2 , the free-spirited babe is on every man’s dreamgirl list.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : Baahubali’s Avantika who stole hearts as the gorgeous warrior princess, continues to be adored by her legion of fans who’ve been worshipping her since 2005 when she made her debut. All set to get into Kangana’s shoes in the Telugu remake of the Bollywood hit Queen, Tamannaah’s stakes are only getting higher. 
 
 Not even a single link-up since her rumoured break-up with Tamil hearthrob Karthi years ago. The girl’s got focus, and she’s still single! 
 
  Referred to as ‘Milky Beauty’ down South for her skin tone, Tamannaah has gone from 15 to 28 looking like a million bucks, and making a million hearts beat. Whether she’s sword fighting under a waterfall or doing her famous derrière-wiggle in a rain dance, she gets the mercury soaring. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : Winner of the fbb Femina Miss Telangana 2017 crown
 
 : Single but considers men from the armed forces ‘hot and attractive’. Who’s listening?
 
 : When she sashays down the the ramp, she sets it on fire with her confidence. When she’s on the silver screen, she lights it up with her chutzpah, like we saw her do in her 2014 debut Telugu film. And when you meet her, she disarms you with her eyes, smile and voice. sexy in a breezy kinda way, that’s Simran for you.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : fbb Colors Femina Miss India Andhra Pradesh 2017 , this Telugu hottie is one to watch out for. 
 
 : Single. A lil’ birdie told us that she tied a ‘rakhi’ to her crush because her friend happened to like him too. Aww! 
 
 : Femme fatale with a heart of gold, Shrishti is your South Indian beauty with brains. She was a software developer and 
 business development manager before entering the world of glamour. And boy, aren’t the men glad. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : Jejamma, Devasena or Bhaagamathie, there’s only name that comes to mind. In a male-dominated industry, Anushka can carry a film solely on her pretty strong shoulders, while continuing to do formulaic cinema. Even 13 years after her Tollywood debut, she still gets author-backed roles, that are admittedly written just for her. 
 
 : Has constantly been linked with her Baahubali co-star Prabhas. But na, she won’t tell us...
 
 : Tall, sultry and voluptuous, at 36, Anushka still has a figure to kill for. The former yoga instructor is as fit as a fiddle, with curves that can make the men go weak in the knees. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : Captain of the Indian women’s cricket team, she is the only female cricketer in the world to surpass the 6,000-run mark in ODIs and the first Indian cricket captain to lead the team to an ICC ODI World Cup final twice. 
 
 : Single. Mithali once said in an interview that given a choice between cricket and love, she’d choose cricket.
 
 : The 35-year-old is just as comfortable as a glamour queen as she is on the cricket pitch, as we found out when she posed for a magazine cover in her most glamourous avatar yet. The dusky Mithali has a distinct desi charm, one can barely shift the gaze from her fierce eyes and a flash of those dimples when she smiles, is to die for. she has hit critics for a six, and left her admirers clean bowled! 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : With four releases, Mahanubhavudu, Raja The Great, C/o Surya and Jawaan in Tollywood in 2017, Mehreen is very much a contender to the crown of ‘Tollywood queen’. 
 
 : Single
 
 : If a face could launch a thousand ships, that face could’ve been something like this! But don’t you think she’s just a pretty face. The former beauty queen, before her debut in Tollywood, was a national air pistol shooter as well. A girl, with a face like that, and a gun to boot... my, my!
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : She is the daughter of Kamal Haasan but is a celebrity in her own right with hits in multiple industries including Gabbar Singh, Balupu, Race Gurram and Srimanthudu in Telugu. Shruti is also an accomplished singer, dancer and composer. Need we say more? 
 
 : In a relationship with London-based Italian actor Michael Corsale.
 
 : She’s bold, feisty and doesn’t shy away from doing what she wants. Shruti oozes sex appeal and confidence. With her sexy pout and killer curves, she surely knows how to set hearts racing. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : With a single film Fidaa, she became a rage across the two Telugu States and followed it up with another convincing performance in MCA. She is Bhanu….. Bhanumathi, Tollywood’s ‘hyper pilla’. 
 
 : Single
 
 : Her charming act in Fidaa has made boys go fida over her. This natural beauty can make heads turn without any make-up. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : A model and software professional before venturing into the world of films, Taapsee found her true calling in acting. Despite doing quite a few films down South including the successful Mr Perfect, Saahasam, Ghazi Attack and Anando Brahma, the Punjabi girl found true stardom with her Bollywood hits Pink and Judwaa 2 
 
 : Is presently said to be dating Olympic silver medallist badminton player Mathias Boe, though we never hear it from the horse’s mouth.
 
 With a 1000-watt smile and a winsome demeanour, Taapsee is everybody’s sweetheart. Her transformation from a shy girl-next-door to a supremely confident and bold woman with tremendous sex appeal got the guys to sit up and take notice. This Delhi girl is sexy and she knows it, and is unafraid to flaunt it. Well, we aren’t complaining...
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 : Tollywood blockbusters Gentleman, Ninnu Kori and Jai Lava Kusa
 
 : Single
 
 : With a mix of classical good looks and a raw sex appeal, Nivetha Thomas is yet another Mallu beauty who has taken our breath away...
 
 
  
 
 
 
 : She is only one film old, but her debut Arjun Reddy turned out to be a cult classic and her role of a woman caught between her family and her troubled lover proved that she can not only ‘kiss’, but act as well.
 
 : Single
 
 : With fetching looks and an alluring voice, this Madhya Pradesh girl is surely raising the heat. Her kissing scenes in Arjun Reddy have left her growing fan-following wanting for more...
 
 
  
 
