CHENNAI: The residents of suburbs will have to endure the tedious journey to represent issues with their respective collectorates in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur for a few more months as the process to merge these areas with Chennai has not been completed. 

 Though the government kick-started the process of redrawing the contours of the district four months ago and wanted to complete it on April 1, it is likely to be over only in July. 
 
 Official sources with the   said several issues need to be settled ahead of merging the fringe areas of the neighbouring districts to Chennai. "Options would be given to the government staff employed in taluks to choose between the two districts to work. This is yet to take off," a tahsildar in Tiruvallur said. "A meeting was convened in this regard before the government issued orders for expansion four months ago. But, there is no progress so far," the official added.
 
 On January 4 this year, chief minister   launched the expansion programme for including six taluks from Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur in Chennai . The expansion would increase the size of Chennai from 176 sqkm to 426 sqkm covering all the areas of  . As per plans, 67 revenue villages from Alandur and   in Kancheepuram and Ambattur, Madavaram, Maduravoyal and Tiruvottiyur taluks in Tiruvallur would become part of Chennai. In total, the expanded city will have 122 revenue villages. 
 
 While the entire Ambattur and Maduravoural taluks would be in the city, only parts of Alandur, Sholinganallur, Madavaram and Tiruvottiyur taluks would figure in the district map. "But, we are clueless about the status of the move as we are only told files are pending with the government. We except the expansion would be finalised by July," a tahsildar in Kancheepuram district said.
 
 V Rama Rao, secretary of Nanganallur-based People   said the plan to expand the city is going on a snail pace. "They should have redrawn the boundaries of the city when they expanded Chennai corporation in 2011. We have to travel about 70km to meet the district collector at Kancheepuram for various issues including revenue related grievances that could not be resolved at the taluk level. Had it been in Chennai, accessing the district collectorate would be easier as it is located at a distance of 15km from Nanganallur," he said.
 
 When contacted, official sources with the Chennai collectorate said they were yet to receive any orders from the state government regarding the finality of the expansion.
 
