CHENNAI: Global   shipments declined 3% annually in Q1 2018, according to the latest research from Counterpoint’s Market Monitor service. 

 Top 10 players now capture 76% of the market thereby leaving more than 600 brands to compete for the remaining 24% of the market. 
 
 Commenting on the declining smartphone growth, Tarun Pathak, associate director at Counterpoint Research said, “The waning smartphone demand is due to a slowdown in developed markets where replacement cycles are lengthening with overall smartphone features and design reaching its peak. However, emerging markets still offer a sizeable opportunity for OEMs to expand and grow as smartphone penetration by users in still around 45%. The average selling price of smartphones is increasing, too, in emerging markets with users upgrading from entry level to the mid smartphone segment. Hence, we expect OEMs to accelerate their go to market strategy and expansion in parts of Africa and rest of the APAC region to capture the growing demand in CY 2018.”
 
 Commenting on the regional performance of Chinese brands during the quarter, research analyst Shobhit Srivastava noted, “The saturating China smartphone market is forcing the Chinese smartphone players to invest and expand beyond their home market. The efforts have been realised as the performance of Chinese brands in the MEA, Europe and the rest of the Asian markets has been strong.”
 
 “The ideal smartphone market for Chinese brands are the emerging smartphone markets such as Bangladesh, Myanmar and Middle East and Africa where LTE is being launched for the first time or the network is expanding to more covered geographies. The North America market has been problematic for Chinese brands and the ban on ZTE will further decline their share in the region.”
 
 Samsung led the smartphone market by volume with a market share of 22% in Q1 2018. The company regained its top spot from Apple in the quarter. Sequentially, Samsung shipments grew 5% with the launch of its latest flagship, the Galaxy S9 and S9+. 
 
 China remains a struggle for Samsung in Q1 2018 as shipments declined over 50% in Q1 2018.
 
 Apple shipped 52.2 million iPhones during Q1 2018 up 3% as compared to the same quarter last year.   X remained the top seller for Apple during the quarter. Apple grew 32% YoY in China due to strong performance of its iPhone X. While the promotions were not aggressive for the iPhone X, except in operator channels, its demand remains healthy in the market.
 
 Huawei shipments grew 14% YoY in Q1 2018 even though growth in China slowed down considerably. Huawei’s continuous efforts to expand in markets outside China has resulted in strong growth in Europe (+46%), MEA (+38%) and in India (+146%) where it entered the top 5 smartphone brand list for the first time in Q1 2018.
 
 Xiaomi remained one of the fastest growing brands (+101%) in Q1 2018, driven by strong sales in both China (+51%) and India (+134%). Xiaomi shipped 27 million smartphones, capturing 8% market share of the global smartphone market in Q1 2018. Xiaomi surpassed OPPO to become the fourth largest smartphone brand in Q1 2018. It continues to grow in the India smartphone market along with increasing efforts to enter new markets and capture more market share in Q2 2018.
 
 
