CHENNAI: Motorists on Mount Poonamaallee High Road at Manapakkam will now have a smooth drive instead of agonising   jams near MIOT Hospital. The   across the   has been widened from 19m to 31m, adding two lanes to the previous four lanes, at a cost of Rs 17 crore.

 Four of the six lanes are now 3.5m wide, earmarked as bus lanes. There is a provision of 2m-wide footpaths on both sides of the bridge, complete with handrails, bollards, and lighting. Earlier, crossing the bridge was a nightmare for many pedestrians. The widened portion of the bridge is likely to be formally opened for traffic in two weeks. 
 
 Approach roads of 150m length have been built on the two sides of the bridge, replacing dusty pathways. According to sources in the highways department, landscaping work and installation of signage are pending. “Modern signage will be installed along the bridge so that motorists will have an easy drive. The area surrounding the approach road will be developed with landscaping and trees,” said an official.
 
 Connecting Guindy to busy areas of Porur and beyond, this stretch had been a bottleneck, especially after several IT companies and commercial establishments moved to the MPH Road in the past decade. Whenever the nearby Chennai Convention Centre hosted programmes, traffic on the road had spiralled out of control.
 
 “Vehicles moving towards Guindy after crossing the Ramapuram signal used to slow down near MIOT Hospital due to traffic on the bridge. New lanes on the bridge have reduced congestion to a great extent,” said P Senthil, a Porur resident.
 
 The work that began by the end of 2015 was to be completed in 18 months, said officials from the metro wing of the state highways that carried out the work.
 
 Some road users said the widening would, however, only shift the congestion to a new point. “It is worse near Thomas Mount,” said Suresh, an auto driver. “Something has to be done there.”
 
 “The government late last year announced a Rs 200-crore flyover at Ramapuram signal. Traffic jams are common here during peak hours,” said V Nagarajan, a resident of Manapakkam.
 
 
