Chandigarh: Dismissing the bail pleas of several accused involved in rioting and arson that had erupted after conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS) head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in late August 2017 in rape cases, the Punjab and Haryana high court has held that courts cannot be lenient to those “who had threatened the very existence and majesty of law”.

 Observing that “faith does not teach cruelty and violence against other human beings, rather it is used for uniting and strengthening the people at large,” the HC made it clear that terrorizing public at large is a heinous crime and should be dealt with stern hand.
 
 HC was also of the view that if the accused were released at this stage, there were chances that they would try to influence the prime witnesses of the case.
 
 Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu passed these orders while dismissing a bunch of petitions seeking bail by Sital and others who are facing charges of attempt to murder, damaging public property and under the Explosive Substance Act in Mansa town of Punjab on August 25, 2017, after Gurmeet was convicted by a Panchkula court.
 
 Allegations are that they were raising slogans “Dhan Dhan Satguru Tera Hi Aasra” and were shouting that their ‘father Sant Gurmeet’ had been convicted and lesson was to be taught for his conviction. They had set several vehicles on fire by using petrol bombs and also damaged buildings.
 
 “The petitioners had a very desperate idea to destabilize the society on account of conviction of Dera chief and to put an extreme pressure on the government and the court to release the convict in a rape case. Meaning thereby, the petitioners have no respect for court of law and thus, when they have threatened the very existence and majesty of the law, then there is no occasion for this court to take an undue lenient view in their favour; rather they deserve no concession for releasing on bail,” observed Justice Sindhu while dismissing their bail petitions.
 
 HC, however, directed the trial court to examine the complainants in the case as early as possible in view of the fact that they have taken the risk to come forward against the present petitioners.
 
 The court also directed the Punjab police to take due care of the life and liberty of complainants as well as their families considering the sensitivity of the case.
 
 Petitioners were seeking bail on the ground that they are in custody since long, investigation has been completed and charges have been framed against them and nothing is to be recovered from them. It was also contended that the petitioners were not named in the FIR as they were alleged to be with muffled faces and were booked four days after the FIR.
 
 Objecting to their plea, the state government submitted that the petitioners have threatened the very existence of the court of law by their action. Actually, two cars were put on fire by the petitioners and they also entered in the office of Income Tax thereby throwing the petrol bottles, match boxes and baseball bats and created an absolute terror in the city.
 
 
