PATNA: The district administration has assigned specific duties to officials for the upcoming   Mahotsava scheduled to be held on April 13 and 14 on the occasion of Baisakhi.

 Patna DM Kumar Ravi, who held a meeting to oversee preparations for the event on Friday, instructed executive engineers to put up barricades on the roads leading to Patna City School ground and Takhat Shri Harmandir Saheb Gurdwara where the main programmes will be held. He asked the officials to work in tandem with the Gurdwara management committee.
 
 Deputy development commissioner Aditya Prakash was appointed as nodal officer for the event, while additional district magistrate (law and order) Ashutosh Kumar Verma will be responsible for helpdesk, traffic management and law and order. A unit of State Disaster Response Force will maintain the disaster management cell.
 
 The main procession will start from Guru Ka Bagh and reach Takhat Shri Harmandir Saheb in the early morning on April 13.
 
 The DM asked the Patna Municipal Corporation officials to ensure that all routes in Patna City are cleaned. He also asked officials to fix overhead power cables in Patna City and make proper lighting arrangements in all routes leading to Gurdwara and other important places where the cultural events will be held.
 
 Uninterrupted water supply, mobile toilets, deployment of police personnel and installation of hundreds of surveillance cameras in Patna City area were some of the issues discussed at the meeting. The DM asked the authorities concerned to complete arrangements before the commencement of the festival. The civil surgeon was asked to provide three well-equipped ambulances with doctors. “I will monitor the work daily. The nodal officers have been asked to conduct field visits so that the plans could be implemented,” the DM said.
 
 Patna City SDO Rajesh Roshan said eminent Punjabi singers would regale the audience on April 13 and 14. “Work has already started for construction of the stage. CCTV cameras are also being installed,” he said. 
 
 
