GURUGRAM: Protests by landowners whose plots were acquired for one of the key state government projects —   — appear to have paid off as the Haryana State Industry and Infrastructure Corporation ( ) has written to the deputy commissioner, asking him to intervene and expedite the matter, which is pending with the district revenue officer.

 The information was revealed by HSIIDC in a reply to one of the plot owners. A copy of the HSIIDC’s letter, which TOI accessed, stated that the industrial corporation had written to the district revenue officer asking him to verify eligibility of landowners who had applied for   plots, in November 2017.
 
 “We have filtered the applications seeking alternative plots, sent them to the DRO for eligibility verification in May 2017 and then a reminder was sent in November. Consequently, a letter was also sent to the deputy commissioner’s office, asking him to intervene and expedite the matter,” a senior HSIIDC official told TOI.
 
 For a landowner to be eligible for an alternative plot, at least 75% of his/her land should be acquired by the government. The official said the HSIIDC expected the report to come in a month’s time, and once that was done, it could start further processes.
 
 HSIIDC had received 903 applications under the rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) policy. Of them, 897 applications were sent to district revenue officer for verification of eligibility in May 2017. Land owners will have to pay 10% of the allotment fee for the plots under the policy, said the official.
 
 Allotment of alternative plots was one of the main demands of landowners of five villages — Gadoli Khurd, Harsaru, Mohhamad Pur, Khandsa and Narsinghpur. During their recent protests, they had said they would not let the state government start the work on the project unless the government agreed to their demands.
 
 Ravi Dutt, one of the landowners, said, “It took more than a decade and a half for the authorities to start the process of eligibility calculation. We can only hope that it won’t take another decade for them to allot alternative plots.”
 
 In 2003, around 1,385 acres of land was acquired for the project. Initially the landowners were offered a compensation of Rs. 20 lakh per acre, and later it was eventually revised to Rs. 1.4 crore by the Supreme Court. The project was first launched by the Hooda government. Even 15 years later, the government is negotiating the funds for the project with Japanese International Corporation Agency. Even though several deadlines were set for the project, it has failed to take off.
 
 
