On Tuesday, the Supreme Court modified its November 30, 2016, order and left it to the discretion of cinema halls to whether or not play the national anthem before every movie. However, cinema halls in Delhi tells us that in the current nationalistic environment, especially with Republic Day approaching and the release of controversy-marred 'Padmavat', they don't want to take any risks and plan to continue playing the national anthem for now.

  
 The 2016 order to play the national anthem was to instill "a sense of committed patriotism and nationalism." However, it led to instances of vigilantism, and resulted in a SC bench asking, "Why do we have to wear patriotism on our sleeves?" Now, the SC has modified the order to make the playing of the national anthem optional, however, cinemas say that they don't want to take any risks and will continue to play the national anthem. 
 
  PV Sunil, Managing Director, Carnival Cinemas, says, "We will continue playing the national anthem as we want to show our respect to the nation. We were the first to start playing it in Kerala, much before the 2016 SC order. As law-abiding citizens of India, we should pay respect to the national anthem by standing up for it." Tinku Singh, Group President,  , says, "We will continue playing the national anthem, and we will also ensure that viewers are informed about it, and they stand for the anthem."
 
  An industry insider says, "It is important for us to wear patriotism on our sleeves, it’s also good for business! What if I decide not to play the anthem, and someone takes offence and vandalises the theatre? We are already dealing with too many issues. We want a peaceful release for Padmavat, and can’t stop playing the anthem in the current scenario."
 
  
  
 
  Another exhibitor says, "The audience has been polarised over the issue. And now that people are used to the anthem, even if they don’t like it, they will not stop coming to cinemas if we continue playing it. But the more nationalistic crowd will not welcome a decision to stop playing it. Also, we might be branded as a multiplex which doesn’t respect the anthem or the nation. This branding might affect business in the long run as moviegoers don’t pick a cinema hall only based on location and services. So, to avoid any such unwelcome attention or branding, which might affect our business in the future, we will not stop playing the national anthem immediately."
 
  
  
 
  
 Yogesh Raizada, Corporate Head, Wave Cinemas, says, "The SC directive changes nothing for us. We will wait for more clarity on it. But we will continue playing the national anthem unless we get some official letter from a government department."
 
  A Delhi-based exhibitor explains, "Though we can choose not to play the anthem, we will continue playing it for now. We might stop after five-six months." He adds, "We deal with a lot of drama on a daily basis, so any decision to stop playing it is welcome. To play the anthem before every show means losing 10-12 minutes revenue for 52 seconds. Even after 1.5 years, the arguments over standing up for the anthem continues. People keep fighting and our staff ends up pacifying people."
 
  
 An usher at a multiplex in Delhi says, "We have been getting queries from the moment the news was out. When I went inside the audi to deliver food to a guest, he showed me the news on his phone. We have to gear up for more such queries. Maybe we can just put up a board at the entrance saying, 'Yahan national anthem bajta hai'. But who knows, even that might offend someone!"
 
  
  
 
  An usher at a multiplex in Noida shares, "In May, when a list of people who can be exempted from standing for the national anthem came out, people kept joking, 'Mujhe fever hai, par woh list mein nahin hai, leking main national anthem ke baad andar jaoon? Now, there'll be more jokes. Most of our patrons stand up for the anthem, but those who don’t, often make jokes. Now, they have more reasons to joke around. Log baar-baar pooch rahe hain, 'National anthem chal raha hai ya band kar diya?' People tell each other 'go to Pakistan' if someone doesn’t stand up for the anthem. If we stop playing it, what will they do to us?" 
 
  
  
 
 
  Another usher at the same multiplex says, "This directive has created a lot of confusion for us. As of now, we do not have any instructions to stop playing the anthem and we are conveying the same to all the guests."
 
  
 Anurag Gupta, a moviegoer says, "When I asked an usher if they will stop playing the national anthem, he told me that he is as clueless as I am. But I can choose to not enter in the theatre when it is playing. At least, the SC has realised that they can’t bully moviegoers. However, the problem is that there will be confusion now. Pehle toh mandatory tha, ab phir se arguments honge hall mein."
 
   , a moviegoer, says, "When I was standing in queue to get my ticket, many people asked the person behind the counter if they are still playing the anthem. I hope the cinemas clarify their stand soon, else everyone will keep asking this."
 
 
 
