NAGPUR: Of the 24 candidates who had filed nomination papers for the Bhandara-Gondia   by-elections, six have opted out of the fray. Monday was the last day for withdrawal. With none from Shiv Sena or the BSP in the ring, it looks like a fight between the NCP-Congress alliance and the BJP.

 The fact that the Sena and BSP have not fielded candidates means that a sizeable number of around 1 lakh voters that these two parties together command are now free to be wooed by the two main rivals, Madhukar Kukde of the NCP and Hemant Patle of the BJP. This vote chunk could also decide the outcome as the Sena and BSP have not officially announced support to any party yet.
 
 The by-election has been necessitated following the resignation of Nana Patole who was elected in 2104 on a BJP ticket but quit the party as well as the Lok Sabha in December just before Gujarat elections. Patole has now joined the Congress.
 
 With hardly a year of the term left, the winner will have little scope to do much for the constituency. Both, Patle and Kukde are ex-MLAs. But   is seen more as an influence area of NCP stalwart Praful Patel and it will be for him to get the party candidate elected. The BJP has a traditionally solid base and its candidate’s caste factor is also favourable in the seat.
 
 Sena’s Deorao Bawankar had filed his papers but, with no B-form given by the party, he had to beat a retreat. Similarly, Ajab Shastri of the BSP also filed nomination papers. Instead of backing him, the Mayavati-led party has expelled him from BSP. State BSP chief Suresh Sakhre said the party never contests a by-election and so Shastri was removed for rebelling.
 
 District collector Abhimanyu Kale said VVPAT machines will be used for the first time here and voting hours will be from 7am to 6pm. Voter awareness campaign will be held to demonstrate how the electronic voting machine with paper trail actually works.
 
 
 
 Madhukar Kukde (NCP), Hemant Patle (BJP), Akshay Pande (Vidarbha Maza), Gopal Uike (Gondwana Gantantra Party), Chandramani Kamble (Amdekarite Party), Jitendra Raut (Manavta Party), Dharmaraj Bhalavi (Bahujan Mukti), Nandlal Kadgave (Baliraja), Rajesh Borkar (BRSP),   (BRPBMS) and independents Ajablal Tularam, Kishor Panchbhai, Kashiram Gajbe, Chaniram Meshram, Purshottam Kamble, Rakesh Tembhare, Ramvilas Maskare and Suhas Funde
 
 
