VADODARA: National Highway 8 or NH 8 that passes from the outskirts of the city is known to be one of the busiest highways in the country. But the 30-kilometre stretch between Padamla village and   village has also earned a dubious tag of being a killer highway. And concerned over the high rate of accidents, the city police have initiated a drive to make this stretch safer for commuters.

 The traffic cops have made a number of suggestions to National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to prevent accidents and many of them have already been implemented. “We compiled data of accidents and fatalities of last three years and did analysis of the spots. We found 13 spots of which nine were blackspots as the number of accidents there are higher,” said Amita  , ACP (traffic).
  
 
 Between 2015 and 2017, the NH 8 stretch that passes from outside the city witnessed 187 accidents in which 124 people died. “We analysed all these spots to ascertain reasons behind the high number of accidents. From lack of proper signboards to absence of speed-breakers and reflectors, a number of reasons caused accidents on this stretch. So we wrote letters to the NHAI and Vadodara-Bharuch Toll Way Ltd, and made a number of suggestions in April this year,” Vanani told TOI.
 
 The authorities promptly acted on the suggestions. In a letter written to the ACP (traffic), the   officials have said that they have made speed-breakers and installed signboards reading ‘no right turn’ and ‘accident zone’. A similar signboard reading ‘no right turn’ board was installed near   village and staggered barricading was provided near Jambuva village.
 
 Also, zebra crossings have been painted and reflectors installed at a number of spots on the highway. The suggestions related to making underpasses, service roads and foot overbridges have been forwarded to NHAI for consideration. “More accidents are witnessed on highway bypasses as vehicles come from different directions. It is important to control speed and directions. Installing speed-limit signboards does have its effect on the commuters,” Vanani added.
 
 The police department said that most accidents happen in night or early morning due to poor visibility and hence reflectors play an important role in preventing accidents. The traffic cops had installed reflectors on many vehicles passing from the NH 8 during the Traffic Safety Week earlier this year.
 
 Times View
 
 The police department's move to improve safety on NH-8 has been appreciated as this stretch witnesses large number of accidents, mostly during nights. It is important to take measures including preventing parking of heavy vehicles by the roadside after sunset. Many areas on this stretch need to be redesigned for smooth traffic flow. The police should coordinate with the NHAI officials to ensure that the roads are designed to be more commuter friendly. 
 
 
