NAGPUR: Veteran Congress leader Veerappa Moily, in whose tenure as Union law and judiciary minister the four Supreme Court judges now in the limelight for going public on internal differences were elevated, is of the firm view that they should have avoided going to the media.

 “But, at the same time, I would like to emphasize that each of these four judges, who are also part of the collegium, are outstanding persons of highest integrity. So, there is no question of them acting under some political influence,” said Moily.
 
 He was heading the   that visited city’s National Academy of Direct Taxes (NADT) on Monday. Ten of the committee members visited NADT and were so pleased by its functioning that the committee may recommend according ‘national institution of excellence’ status to the academy where revenue officials are trained.
 
 The Parliamentary Standing Committee on   has eminent members like ex-PM  , Veerappa Moily, Bhartuhari Mahtab, Bandaru Dattatraya,  , Mahendra Prasad, Shivkumar Udasi, and Ajay Sancheti. Ten of the members were in the city and left for Mumbai in the evening, where other committee members are to join them on Tuesday. 
 
 The committee, which closely examines every issue concerning the nation’s economy, has now started working on preparing a holistic approach to solve the agrarian crisis in the country. The committee members disclosed this at the end of their daylong visit to the city .
 
 Agriculture crisis has been looming large over the nation for the last few years, and farmers are reeling under problems like farmer suicide, inability to repay crop loans, non-remunerative pricing of produce, and loopholes in crop insurance schemes. Agitations for demanding reservations by some communities of late are also rooted in the agriculture crisis as more than 60% of the population is engaged in the occupation.
 
 “Measures like each state providing loan waiver to farmers is no solution. We have to take a holistic view and ponder over several aspects for inclusive growth,” said Moily. It was based on the committee’s findings that Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code has come into being. The committee is a true example of how political leaders rise above party politics and work to evolve consensus on crucial aspects of economic reforms.
 
 The finance committee is of the view that the Goods and   (GST) regime introduced last year may take another five years to stabilize. “Only then will the ultimate objective of doing away with multiple slabs and one-country, one-tax be achieved.”
 
 The committee is also engaged in studying the impact of demonetization, said Moily. “We are into second phase of economic reforms that started in 1991. No political party can oppose it or derail this continuing process.” said Mahtab.
 
 
