THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Six months after the incident, the state health department on Thursday finally acted on the probe report on the alleged delay in providing treatment to Tamil Nadu native accident victim   that ultimately led to his death. 

 Additional chief secretary (health)   has sought an explanation from the two doctors who were on duty at the casualty wing of the   (MCH) when Murugan was brought for treatment.
 
 In the notice issued to Dr Patric Paul and Dr   V, the health department has pointed out that they had failed in doing their duties when Murugan was brought to the hospital. It further said that they made a serious lapse by not admitting the patient and declining to enter the details of the treatment required for the patient in the OP card.
 
 The action is based on a report submitted by the expert committee that probed into the alleged lapses by the doctors in giving timely treatment to the accident victim. The committee had observed that Murugan's life could have been saved if he had been given timely treatment.
 
 The committee had also found that the MCH doctors denied treatment to Murugan when there was one VVIP ventilator and 16 standby ventilators available in the hospital. The allegation is that the doctors did not admit Murugan saying that the ventilators were not free then. The committee found that Murugan died due to the serious head injury he had sustained.
 
 The expert committee consisted of health services director Dr R L Saritha, medical education joint director Dr Sreekumari and Thiruvananthapuram general hospital department of anaesthesia senior consultant Dr Vipin G I. The committee was constituted following a preliminary report that pointed towards denial of treatment at various hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts.
 
 Murugan had died on August 16, 2017 after he met with an accident near Kottiyam. He was first taken to a private hospital in   from where he was taken to two more hospitals since his condition was serious. He was later taken to the Thiruvananthapuram MCH.
 
 Even though the Kollam police had registered a case, it could not proceed with the investigation since the health department was not willing to hand over the expert committee report.
 
 
