Panchkula: A week after more than 21 persons were booked while carrying out illegal mining, the Panchkula   department in a raid conducted on Saturday evening, again caught a person for the same. He was also stealing gravel from the Badona river bed by Raipur Rani police station. 

 Local residents moved a complaint regarding illegal quarrying going on in river belt of Panchkula to the mining officer, after which the raid was conducted.
 
 Mining guard Balram Singh gave a complaint to the cops after checking.
 
 During the raid near Badona river belt near Rakba village, cops nabbed the accused, Sagar, a resident of Badona village, who was carrying out illegal mining in the area.
 
 Sagar was booked by the Raipur Rani police under Section 21(4) of Mining and Mineral Act and Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Head constable Balkar Singh said, “We have registered a case after mining department officials gave a complaint to us. Now, the accused has been nabbed too. Investigation in the case is in progress.”
 
 Cases this year
 
 April 8 | Two cases of illegal mining got registered in Chandimandir police station
 
 April 8 | Four cases of illegal sand mining got registered against four persons in Raipur Rani police station
 
 April 3 | Nine persons booked by Kalka police for carrying out illegal mining near a rivulet in Paploha village
 
 April 3 | Kalka cops booked 6 persons while carrying out illegal mining near a rivulet near Paploha village
 
 April 3 | Raipur Rani police nabbed a person resident of Rattewali village
 
 March 25 | On receiving complaints from the mining guard, cops arrested two persons for illegal sand mining in Barwala
 
 January 10 | Cops seized a tractor-trolley getting filled with river sand illegally by a JCB machine near Manakaya village 
 
 January 5 | A tractor-trolley was seized by the cops from Ghaggar river bank, Sector 28 for carrying illegal sand mining. A case registered in Chandimandir police station
 
 January 2 | A case was registered against an unknown person for doing illegal sand mining in Rattewali village. Mining officer found a 250-ft long and 8-ft deep hole at the place. A case was registered at Chandimandir police station
 
 
