Thennamadevi is a   of warrior  . From the outside, it could pass off as any other village in Tamil Nadu; it has a few concrete homes, several mud ones that slowly powder away under the sweltering April sun; it has lanky boys braving the heat with street cricket games they play with the sturdiest planks of wood they find that day. It has popping, wild green expanses of paddy and sleepy cattle that seem forever on the loose.

 But on closer look, it is a village run by a bunch of 50 adolescent girls, aged between 10 and 18, who’ve become singlehandedly responsible for every civic, educational and infrastructural project taking off in the last one year. Failed far too long by a system that brings them into the world but gives them little agency to grow into the women they want to become, the girls of this village decided that they would rise to the occasion and ensure themselves the education, hygiene, dignity and finances they need. And enabling all the extensive backend work this pursuit needs is Scope India, the Cuddalore-based NGO working for marginalised communities, which has pioneered this initiative along with Railway Children, a UK-based charity that works to protect street children.
 
 For most of the girls, the impetus comes from a few base issues that are only recycled within the varying contexts of one home to another – alcoholic father, widowed mother, crippling poverty, overwhelming loans and exorbitant interests.
 
 Until a few months ago, 14-year-old V Priyadarshini broke into sweat as the day neared sundown. In a daily ritual, her father arrived home drunk, beat up her mother, spat at them Tamil expletives she still doesn’t understand and kept them out of the house for the night. Not that those episodes don’t shake her now, but since her enrollment at Scope India’s girls’ club, the NGO has offered to rehabilitate her father, helped taper his alcohol consumption, and encouraged Priyadarshini to harbour career goals she previously couldn’t imagine.
 
 “I want to become a doctor who treats cancer,” says Priyadarshini, and in a long time, learns a new word she would like to remember – ‘oncologist’. “I will be the oncologist who treats Thennamadevi, may be all of  ,” she says. 
 
 Thennamadevi could well be on its way to becoming Villupuram district’s self-made and most heart-warming exception. In a district that has over the years, been written off by lawmakers and The National Crime Records Bureau as one of the most unsafe in Tamil Nadu, this village is on a mission to become a model for inclusive, child-friendly development. It was in fact, a District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) programme on vulnerable Panchayats a couple of years ago that brought to light the influence of alcohol addiction in Thennamadevi, which made Scope India sit up and take notice. We saw that the village had over 90 widows of men who had succumbed to illegal arrack addiction,” says Sathiya Babu, chief functionary at Scope India, and the brain behind this project.
 
 They immediately got down to safeguarding the village’s children, upping their school enrollment ratio, and formed four clubs – two for SC and MBC boys, and two for SC and MBC girls respectively. The girls’ clubs turned out more proactive than they had anticipated; since their formation, they have been in constant touch with their panchayat secretary, attended every gram sabha meeting where they put forward their demands, are constantly engaging club members and working to enroll about 115 adolescent girls in the village who are left out. 
 
 They have also taken a collective pledge to never marry underage and prevent any family engaging in   in the village. “If these village clubs become a successful model, they could expand to cover the whole district someday. They could go on to become redressal mechanisms for any child-related issue that comes up in Villupuram,” says Babu.
 
 Today, a year after they plunged headlong into tackling critical issues and kept at it, Kousalya Radhakrishnan, 18, and one of the girls who has been at the forefront of this movement, can talk about a lighter necessity – “How do we ensure the kids get a temple festival this year,” she asks, surrounded by over two dozen curious and excited girls gathered at their activity centre. 
 
 “As children and young adults, the village’s failing systems fuelled by patriarchy and complacence, invariably eat into its children’s formative years. We experience this first-hand every day, and that’s why we talk from our lives,” says club member M Swathi, who along with another teenager Vigneswari, has prepared detailed presentations to give to Ashoka foundation to avail fellowships and funding for their rights and development-based work in Thennamadevi.
 
 “To us, this also made for an effective modus operandi,” says A Manikandan, one of the Scope India representatives working in the village. “We figured that in a village languishing without basic amenities, its own locals – better, its children – made better spokespeople than an NGO coming from outside,” he adds.
 
 And the approach does seem to have broken significant ground. In the last year, the girls have ensured lights are installed on the streets they take to school, distributed sanitary napkins to every girl child under the ministry of health and family welfare's menstrual hygiene scheme and are now pushing to get every home its own individual toilet. They have also taken part in village level child protection committee meetings with newer ideas to make their schools, anganwadis and activity centres child-friendly.
 
 “Previously, the gram sabha met about four times a month. Since these clubs formed, I have lost count on the number of times the girls visit me. They know their rights, they know where to get important certificates from and unlike adults, they are full of enthusiasm, and put forward their demands in an amicable and constructive way,” says Thennamadevi’s Village Child Protection Committee president P Arumai Nathan.
 
 While the project has opened many such minds to newer possibilities and fresher approaches, Thennamadevi is still barbed by some old, obstinate conditioning, which Scope India is hoping to break with consistent outreach. “Caste for instance is extremely decisive here. Even after forming the clubs, we have been forced to keep them demarcated for SC and MBC girls. The challenges are many, but at the core of our work is to merge all these differences, which really is the only way for any holistic development to take place,” says Manikandan.
 
