BATHINDA: With SAD losing power in Punjab a year ago, Bathinda has lost the sheen even in allocation of budgetary provisions for various projects as the position has been grabbed by Patiala now. Though it was obvious that Patiala will get the lion’s share in budgetary provisions, as the finance minister belonged to Bathinda there was anticipation that it will not get a raw deal in the budget, feel the residents of this town.

 Residents here are counting the projects going towards Patiala, which includes sports university with an initial budget of Rs 10 crore, special grant of Rs 50 crore to  , Patiala, setting up of modern focal point at Nabha in Patiala with Rs 55 crore, two chairs of Aggarsain and   at Rs 7 crore each at Punjabi University, a new hospital at Ghanaur near Patiala, Rs 73.34 crore for upgrading of government medical college, Patiala and Amritsar, upgrading of dental college and aeronautical college in Patiala. In comparison to it, Bathinda got only the assurance to upgrade civil hospital, Rs 10 crore for up grading of government medical college, Faridkot, and an advanced care diagnostics and research centre and only an assurance to set up 100 MW solar power plant in the complex of closed thermal plant, though no budget has been allocated for it.
 
 “We are feeling very low over Bathinda getting raw deal despite finance minister belonging to Bathinda, which before elections used to claim that the treasury will be opened for Bathinda after the   forms the government,” said Bathinda resident Ramesh Kumar. Another town resident Balwinder Singh said that Bathinda instead of getting anything from the Congress government has lost the thermal plant, which was like lifeline to many. We had hopes that the government will compensate Bathinda with other projects upon snatching thermal plant, but our hopes have dashed.
 
 Former minister Sikandar Singh Maluka said that, “The people of Bathinda feel cheated. We have no jealousy over Patiala getting many projects but people are feeling low for Bathinda after it lost its prominent place, which was reserved for it during the previous SAD-BJP government. The latter had brought a lot of projects like advanced cancer research centre,  , Maharaja Ranjit Singh technical university and lot more.” 
 
 Meanwhile, a Congress leader from Bathinda said that the Congress had planned projects for Bathinda.
 
