KOCHI: The   on Friday, while hearing the petition filed by Kerala private hospitals' association ( ) challenging the notification issued by the state government revising the minimum wages of nurses, said that it cannot grant a stay without a detailed hearing. 

 At the admission hearing of the petition filed by KPHA secretary and   chairman Hussain Koya Thangal, a stay on the notification was demanded. 
 
 KPHA alleged that the notification issued on April 23 suffers from procedural irregularity and goes against principles fixed through statutes and by the decisions of the high court and the  . 
 
 The notification also violates constitutional provisions such as equality before law (Article 14), right to practise any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade, or business (Article 19.1.g); and right to life and personal liberty (Article 21), the petition said.
 
 While the government can either appoint a committee or issue a notification for revising minimum wages as per provisions of   of 1948, the government has proceeded to issue a notification without passing an order accepting or rejecting the report of a committee already appointed, KPHA has contended.
 
 Also, the Act does not allow for providing 'An Extra Allowance' as specified in the government's notification. Only components such as basic pay and dearness allowance are specified in the Act, it is alleged. Government also went wrong in including private hospitals of different bed strengths in the same category, stated the petition.
 
 Government could not have issued a notification revising minimum wages as the issue is pending before the high court, the hospital managements argued. 
 
 As per the Act, any such notification issued by the government will not be applicable to the employees as long as the proceedings are pending, said the petition.
 
 Demands raised by KPHA before the court include quashing of the notification issued by the government and a court declaration that members of KPHA are entitled to continue payment of wages as per the earlier notification of 2013.
 
