Mysuru: The district administration has extended security cover to a woman who feared that her husband would sell her 11-month-old baby girl to a family.

 Following intervention by deputy commissioner D Randeep, Fathima is now housed at Shakti Dhama, an NGO which takes care of women in distress in the city.
 
 Bhagyalakshmi, a social worker who looks after the inmates of Shakthi Dhama, on Sunday said Fathima is housed at the facility and will be extended medical health. She is seven months pregnant and will be extended care, she said.
 
 Randeep told TOI that he alerted the officials when he learnt that Fathima needs help as she was trying to save her baby. “I directed the Women and Child Welfare Department officials to take care of her,” he said. She has complained that her husband was trying to sell the baby, he added.
 
 According to Bhagyalakshmi, Saraswathipuram Police brought Fathima to the facility on Saturday afternoon. But this was not the first time that she has been admitted to the facility. In fact, this is the third time she was brought to Shakthi Dhama due to harassment meted out to her, she said.
 
 Earlier, in September 2016, Fathima had agreed to stay with her husband after a joint counselling session. “Now, she is seven months pregnant and our first priority is her health. We will try to contact her mother and husband and simultaneously start providing her treatment,” she added.
 
 Fathima was spotted at a park in Sarswathipuram where she is said to have stayed for two days before getting help.
 
 Fathima, 30, said she got married to Manjunath, who is 34 years old, a painter by profession. According to her, he harassed her and had become a drunkard. She is a resident of Kyathamanaranahalli in the city and was staying with her husband at Saraswathipuram. She has a seven-year-old daughter and four-year-old son, both put up at the child care centre run by an NGO in the city as Manjunath reportedly tried to sell them.
 
 She said her husband tried to sell her 11-month-old baby for Rs 15,000.
 
 
