Actress-supermodel  , has always been passionate about the untapped beauty and tremendous potential of the North Eastern states. She along with her business partners has come up with a production house that will not just bring NE closer to the country but "will also bring it and the world closer to each other". In a chat with  , she talks about her vision for the NE, upcoming projects of her production house and about bagging an award for her debut web series…

 
 
 
 The North East Film Studio is a vision that me and my partners   and   have come up with to create all kinds of media content that captures NE like never before. We have a strong connect to NE and our aim is to shoot mainstream Hindi, English and regional content there in a way to promote it and open it up for all kinds of shooting. NE is absolutely stunning and an ideal shooting location, especially now that there are a lot of benefits of shooting there including govt subsidies and that really needs to be tapped. We want NE to become a popular shooting destination just like any other part of our country and want to highlight that NE states are a very important part of our country.
 
 
 
 We are going to produce our own content. Our first project will be a mainstream Hindi and also an English movie is going to be based in the NE and will highlight NE and tap the beauty and culture there.
 
 
 
 I won the Best Supporting Actress Award for 'Bewafaa Si Wafa'. It’s special and overwhelming because it’s probably the first real and popular award that I have won, though I have been nominated before. My first web series got me accolades and I think it is very encouraging and fulfilling to be appreciated for your work. That’s what I have always worked for.
 
 
 
 'Morjim' is a quirky, edgy thriller. I have not played a character like this on screen before. You can see me in a very strong and interesting role. I am looking forward to the reaction of the audiences. It is on the final stages of post-production and is an exciting story and I hope the audience enjoy the movie as much as I loved playing the part.
 
