HYDERABAD: When Ibrahim Quli Qutub Shah IV constructed   about 450 years ago he may not have realised that all the four natural streams impounded to create the artificial lake would one day turn into municipal gutters, carrying all sorts of filth and extremely drug resistant (XDR) germs, polluting the groundwater and spoiling the atmosphere. All these streams once brimmed with a variety of fish providing livelihood to fishermen. 

 Of the four streams that empty into the historic  ,   that passes through   is the most polluted. While the other three streams (now popular as municipal nalas or drains) interconnect several lakes en route carrying the surplus flood water into Hussainsagar, Balkapur stream (or nala) is unique in the sense that it takes off from the river Musi upstream of Hyderabad and joins the river downstream via Hussainsagar. The stream is now full of plastic waste. Encroachments have also now come up on both sides of the stream reducing its width by almost half.
 
 It is also the stream that received the attention of two erstwhile dynasties of Hyderabad. The Qutub Shahis impounded into the form the Hussainsagar and created a weir for discharge of the excess water into the river Musi. The Asaf Jahis further channelized the Balkapur stream after the 1908 Musi deluge. Eminent engineer Sir M Visvesvaraya, who designed Osmansagar (across Musi) and Himayatsagar (across Esi), created a link to Balkapur stream to enable excess floodwater of both the reservoirs to flow into it. In fact, the entire length of the stream was paved with masonry walls.
 
 Septuagenarian M Mallesh recalls that the stream would come alive during monsoon with a waist deep water. "Fish were caught from the stream during monsoon. It also provided irrigation to paddy fields in Khairatabad. Unchecked urbanisation has taken a heavy toll on this once picturesque and drinking water stream. Today we cannot even walk past it thanks to high levels of pollution and the associated foul odour," Mallesh told TOI. 
 
 INTACH Hyderabad convener P Anuradha Reddy said the stream was redesigned by Sir Visvesvaraya to control floods in Hyderabad by diverting excess water from Osmansagar and Himayatsagar into the Hussainsagar and from there again in the Musi. This ensures that the core areas of the city are protected from floods. "Unfortunately, this very stream, which used to protect the city from floods during monsoon, is now responsible for inundation of many colonies. The fault likes with bad planning," she regrets.
 
 
