KOLKATA: A draft notification issued by ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to ease green norms for building and construction sector projects has drawn a sharp response from urban planners and green activists who view the change as regressive and disastrous.

 On March 13, 2018, MoEFCC issued a draft notification that proposes to increase the threshold value of construction requiring environment clearance to two-and-a-half times the current norm. While projects above 20,000sqm currently require environment clearance, it is proposed that buildings and construction projects below 50,000sqm be exempted from the rigours of seeking environment clearance. All the developer is required to do is offer a self-declaration of compliance with environmental norms. An amendment has been proposed to the EIA Notification 2006.
 
  
  
 
 “In the proposed draft, the local authority has been given the responsibility of monitoring the compliance of the environmental conditions through existing mechanism. This is going to be impossible as they do not have expertise in various sectors of environment,” said  , deputy director of   (eRc), a national level voluntary organization that keeps a watch on environmental clearance and forest clearance processes.
 
 While the notification claims the reason behind the amendment is to achieve ‘housing for all by 2022’, Das questions why it is extended to residential apartments, shopping complexes, multiplex, office buildings, IT buildings, hotels and other commercial complexes.
 
 According to the ministry of urban development, specification on the size of a dwelling unit for urban poor is 27-30sqm. The built-up area of less than 20,000sqm was already out of the purview of EIA notification and therefore an approx number of 700 dwelling units could have been made within the limit.
 
 “If this draft is implemented, it will only be beneficial to builders as they will get unrestricted leverage to capture land and water bodies to convert them into concrete buildings,” said   convenor Naba Datta.
 
 West Bengal Pollution Control Board chairman  , too, feels 20,000sqm was good enough for affordable housing. “Increasing it to 50,000 sq m will lead to several environmental challenges.”
 
