
 PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri   Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has started the construction of the ramps for the Empire Estate flyover on Kalewadi Phata-Dehu Alandi BRT road.
 
 The   through the middle of the Empire Estate, a housing society with a population of around 6,000 people, in Chinchwad. The residents initially opposed the construction of the flyover and relented after the civic body issued the work order in April 2011. Since then, the residents have been demanding that the work be completed at the earliest.
 
  
 The construction of ramps was proposed during the tenure of the then municipal commissioner, Shrikar Pardeshi. But the locals are opposing it stating that it will reduce the width of the service road in Empire Estate, leaving less space for movement of resident’s vehicles.
 
 Santosh Pingle, chairman, Federation1 of Empire Estate, told TOI, “The width of the road is 45 metres. However, due to the construction of the 27-m wide flyover and two ramps, only 5m wide road will be left on both the sides of the flyover. This will cause traffic congestion here, especially on Saturdays and Sundays.”
 
 He said the residents met the municipal commissioner   in January 2018 and demanded that the ramps should not be constructed. “The civic chief, however, did not entertain their demand, prompting the residents to file a public interest litigation (PIL) before the high court. Though the first hearing of the PIL is scheduled on Thursday, the contractor began the construction of the ramps on Saturday. After we protested, the work was stopped for a few hours,” Pingle added.
 
 The residents said the work was also affecting the students appearing for Std X and XII exams. “We will be forced to take a decision of not paying the property tax from April 1, 2018 if our demand is not met with,” Pingle said.
 
 When contacted,  , spokesperson of the BRT cell of PCMC, said, “The civic body is constructing the 1.6km-long flyover for the benefit of the commuters. We have started the construction of the ramps. The ramps are not being constructed to cause inconvenience to anyone.”
 
 He further said, “We do not even know if the court has admitted the PIL of the residents. So far, we have also not received any orders from the court.”
 
 
