NAGPUR: Life was all about earning a living by working as a mechanic in a cycle store for   who has been fine-tuning bikes for more than a decade without thinking of being a cyclist himself. His decision to shift to Nagpur to work has transformed his life and brought out the athlete in him.

 The 30-year-old Ansari, who hails from Bihar, has serviced over a lakh of bikes for 11 years in North India, mainly Delhi. He never thought he could afford to buy one himself. Three years ago, Ansari moved to Nagpur, got a great company at a popular   store -- his work place in the city -- and started cycling.
 
 Now, he holds the record of being the first bicycle technician in Central India to complete a 1000-km brevet with the best timings. Along with him, city architect   became the first woman in central India to achieve the feat. They participated in the first 'brevet' event, organized by   last week.
 
 Ansari, who has bought a bike which costs more than his salary, covered the distance in 71 hours 20 minutes, while Jyoti Patel was a minute faster at 71 hours 19 minutes. The allotted time was 75 hours for the 1,000 km task.
 
 There were 12 riders who decided to to take up the challenge. Only eight started and five completed. The others who completed the ride are ex-serviceman   of Warud (71 hours, 35 minutes),   (74 hours, 55 minutes) and another bicycle technician Gajanan Dhore (74 hours, 57 minutes).
 
 This was not Ansari's first time to participate in the cycling event. Earlier last year, he became the first technician in Central India to achieve the Super Randonneur (200, 300, 400, 600-km rides in a calendar year) status.
 
 "After doing so many races last year, I knew I could do this one too. I was eyeing to finish the task first. Accordingly, I planned and took just two hours of sleep in between before finishing it. Even Jyoti madam slept for the same number of hours. It was an amazing experience," Ansari, who reported extreme bouts of sleep while riding, told TOI.
 
 "I never thought of being a biker. Working with   and others at his shop, I decided to take up the sport. Now, I do every other work using cycle. Cycling improves life. So, I feel people should take up the sport and stay fit," Ansari, who is working hard to send money back home and pay EMIs for his bike, told TOI.
 
 Jyoti has the achievement of doing a double Super Randonneur for completing 1400-km G2G (India Gate to Gateway of India) ride in her bag. Other than Jyoti, Devanand is also a Super Randonneur. Ansari and Jyoti stopped on multiple occasions to prevent accidents. The condition of others was no different.
 
 After completing the brevet, Jyoti feels like every other women should take up sport which will only improve their lives. "Cycling has given an interesting turn to my life. It has not only given me strength to fight physical challenges but also made me mentally stronger to deal with other social challenges," Jyoti, who was a badminton player and started cycling to improve strength after she got injured while on the court.
 
