Visakhapatnam: Admissions to the   and   programs of Andhra University, through its university-level RCET (Research Common Entrance Test), are stuck after the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) asked all the state varsities, including  , to keep the research admissions in abeyance. The APSCHE's directive is consequent to the state government’s recent decision of conducting ‘a common research entrance test’ for all the state varsities.

 After a nearly three-year gap, Andhra University had released the AURCET notification in June last year, inviting applications to fill about 270 MPhil seats and 650 PhD seats. The test had drawn more than 13,000 applications pursuant to the notification in more than 92 subjects. The varsity conducted the screening exam in September. It recently concluded interviews for full-time research applicants and was on the verge of allocating the seats for the same. Now, after the APSCHE’s order, the varsity officials have requested the higher education body to exempt the AU’s RCET from the common entrance test for this time.
 
 A resolution of conducting a ‘common research entrance test’ was made during the vice-chancellors’ meeting at Tadepalli, in Guntur district, on December 27 in the presence of HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao. The APSCHE will conduct the common research entrance test on behalf of the state universities through a convenor. Andhra University could conduct its university-level research entrance test ‘RCET’ as it remains unscathed by the UGC’s draft regulations for admissions into PhD programs. The UGC has proposed making the national eligibility test (NET) or a state-level test mandatory for universities which don’t make the cut or are listed in Category III, for giving PhD admissions.
 
 Andhra University was awarded ‘A’ grade with a CGPA of 3.6 on a 4-point scale in 2016 by the NAAC after it got 3.65 CGPA in 2008, which accorded full immunity to Andhra University from the UGC’s new PhD guidelines to conduct its own university-level RCET.
 
 Speaking to ToI, a senior varsity official said they are pursuing the issue with the APSCHE. “We are hopeful of APSCHE giving exemption to the AU’s RCET for this time as the notification was issued long ago and we are about to wrap up the admission process. We will make sure that the aspirants will not be at the receiving end,” the official said.
 
 
