Stress is always not necessarily a ‘bad’ thing. Without this brilliant ability to feel stress, humankind wouldn’t have survived. Stress is primarily a physical response. One such kind of stress is workplace stress. When stressed; the body thinks it is under attack and switches to ‘fight or flight’ mode, releasing a complex mix of hormones and chemicals such as adrenaline,   and norepinephrine to prepare the body for physical action. If we are kept in a state of stress for long periods, it can be detrimental to our health. The results of having elevated cortisol levels can be an increase in sugar and blood pressure levels.

 Stress is associated with behavioral problems such as comfort eating, consumption of high fat, poor dietary choices, physical inactivity etc. Insulin is the storage hormone that helps to control blood sugar (glucose/fructose) levels by signaling the liver, muscle and fat cells to take in glucose from the blood and store it in the form of glycogen in your muscles and liver. The problems start when you eat a lot of foodstuffs containing carbohydrates and your glycogen levels are high. Regularly eating excessive carbs produces a problem wherein most of the carbs get transported to the liver to be stored as body fat.
 
 All the excessive carbohydrates that can no longer be stored or burned immediately are then converted into body fat. Consequently, your pancreas continually produces insulin to regulate the blood sugar levels; eventually the body will no longer respond properly to insulin. As a result, one becomes Insulin Resistant; which leads to a number of health issues like weight gain, metabolic syndrome, pre-diabetes and  . 
 
 Stressors at work place like feeling overloaded with work, unclear about responsibilities of the job and strain of physical labor are the biggest contributors to the risk of developing diabetes. Stress at work place is also associated with reduced sleep quality and negative psychological health such as depression, anxiety, insecurity, powerlessness and low self-esteem. These behavioral changes lead to development of obesity and diabetes. 
 According to recent scientific study conducted on 3,730 workers, none of which were diabetic at the start of study; wherein researchers examined data after 12 years of follow-up. It was found that workers who experienced increasingly stressful tasks on the job were 57% more likely to develop diabetes. It is observed that major changes in work may affect risk of developing diabetes. 
 
 Hence, it is important to maintain healthy lifestyle and healthy weight even during turbulent periods at work. It is advised to find out ways to cope up with day to day stress at work. Instead of keeping stress inside your mind, it is always better to talk to your loved ones. Social support from friends and family matters a lot. Strengthen your social support system for emotional support.
 
 
 
 
