BENGALURU: Goa chief minister   writing to state   president B S Yeddyurappa and not to the Karnataka government that he was ready to share the Mahadayi waters for drinking purpose, is said to be a deliberate move. The message to the people of Karnataka was: “If you want water, vote for Yeddyurappa and the BJP.”

 Party sources said the letter, more than a political gimmick, was an indirect message that a solution to the river dispute cannot be achieved if a   government is in power. Senior BJP leaders admitted that the letter written by Parrikar was, in fact, a message to the state: “If the state wants even a single glass of Mahadayi water then it should vote Yeddyurappa to power.”
 
 Having indirectly hit out at the Congress for being unable to even get an assurance from the Goa government in the past 30 years, even when a Congress government was in power there, the BJP hopes the message will hit home. It is looking at the optics of the letter as being nothing more than a “threat” to the farmers of North Karnataka and the people of Hubballi-Dharwad to vote the saffron party to power with a clear majority.
 
 “Why would we try to give water to the Siddaramaiah government to use for its political gain? Our intention was to send the message that only Yeddyurappa will provide an answer to the Mahadayi river dispute, and we have achieved that with the letter Parrikar has written specifically to Yeddyurappa,” said a BJP leader.
 
 Asked whether BJP will get PM   to make such a statement during his visits to Karnataka, sources said it cannot be done in an open public meeting. “The PM will not indulge in such an open statement,” sources said.
 
 
 
 
 The state BJP has put together a 10-member coordination committee to work out the details of Modi’s participation in the concluding rally of the 120-day Parivarthana Yatra in Bengaluru on February 4.
 
 The committee will be responsible for bringing people to the venue, as a Benguluru bandh has been planned on that day. The members include H N  , D V Sadananda Gowda, R Ashoka and Shobha Karandlaje among others.
 
 
 
 
 Actor Prakash Rai released a video on Twitter asking political parties to stop politicizing the Mahadayi river dispute. In a one minute, 15 seconds video, Rai said: “All political leaders should set aside their ideologies and stop begging for votes (in the name of Mahadayi). They should stand united and fight for the state’s water rights.” Hitting out at the promise made B S Yeddyurappa, BJP state president, Rai said: “Citing that we have power in the Centre and we have governments in neighbouring states and will bring water through a political resolution once we come to power is an absolute lie.”
 
