NEW DELHI: With the focus shifting to civic issues like pollution and sealing, the municipal corporations aren’t as enthusiastic about keeping tabs on the ban on thin plastic bags, imposed in the capital in August last year. The  , for instance, has been issuing just around a couple of notices per day in the past three months. 

 
 Ironically, the more upmarket central and west zones in   have seen only two and seven bookings, respectively, in this period. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The action taken report in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation says not a single violation was recorded in its six zones last week, and surprisingly still, the average punitive action in the last eight months was three   a day.
 
 Last August, the   ordered curbs on the use of carry bags made of plastic less than 50 microns thick and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 for violating the ban. In the immediate aftermath of the ban announcement, the municipal corporations had cracked down on illegal bag manufacturers and seized 8,000kg, 20,000kg and 30,000kg in August, September and October 2017, respectively. The seized plastic had been used at the various waste-to-energy power plants, an SDMC official claimed.
 
 Today, that deterrence is no longer visible, though the civic officials are adamant that the ban has been implemented properly. A senior north corporation official went so far as to attribute the dismal booking of violators in recent months to the effectiveness with which plastic use has been checked in the capital. “There is no laxity on our part,” the official asserted. “At the outset, teams from the licensing department focused on the wholesale markets from where the banned plastic bags were sourced and the number of seizures was large. After that, even the small vendors have shifted to using plastic bags that are more than 50 micron in thickness.” 
 
 Between January 1 and March 31, the four administrative zones were lackadaisical in hauling up defaulters. SDMC’s central zone carried out only two raids during this period, seizing 22kg of plastic, while the west zone fined seven people. The Najafgarh zone booked 128 people and confiscated 56kg of plastic.
 
 The north corporation booked, on average, just around two persons a day in the eight months since the imposition of the ban, with the City-SP zone issuing 99 challans, Karol Bagh 31, Narela 11, Rohini 21,   224 and Keshavpuram 178. In the eight months, 7,580kg of plastic was seized. The east corporation fared better with an average of five bookings a day. The Shahdara north zone booked 694 violators and the Shahdara south zone 454 challans, with seizure of 2,298kg of plastic in eight months.
 
 Corporation officials said that bookings had gone down because field staff, who kept watch on plastic earlier, had since been deployed for other duties, including sealing. The environment department too confirmed that fines and seizures had decreased in recent days. “The reduction proves people are following the rules and avoiding polythene bags,” claimed an official rather disingenuously.
 
 The Plastic Manufacturers’ Association estimates that Delhi needs 60,000kg of 50-micron plastic bags. 
 
 
