INDORE: The death toll in the   hotel building collapse rose to 10 on Sunday while six others were being treated for injuries. 

 The operation to rescue people trapped under the debris was still on. Meanwhile chief minister   has announced Rs 2,00,000 compensation for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured in the incident.
 
  
  
 
  Nishant Warwade also ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. 
 
 According to the officials, a car crashed into the façade of the three-storied hotel around 9.17pm on Saturday, bringing it down in seconds. 
 
 Police, locals and passersby dug through the mountain of debris with bare hands following the collapse, frantically looking for survivors. Ten people were pulled out around 11.30pm after heavy machinery was deployed. 
 
  
  
 
 Eight were brought dead and the others were rushed to the MY Hospital, divisional commissioner Sanjay Dubey said.
 
 Expressing his grief over the accident, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan Tweeted: “We are monitoring the rescue effort. I pray that everyone survives and those wounded recover soon.”
 
 MS Hotel stood for decades near Sarwate bus stand — one of the most crowded parts of the city. Dubey said the car crashed into a weightbearing pillar of the dilapidated structure, which collapsed like a pack of cards. Initially, the olice and other rescuers had no idea how many guests were in the hotel and how many passersby were sucked into the crumbling building. There were shops, hotels and hawker stalls in the vicinity. Plus, the crowd from the bus-stand and railway station. 
 
  
  
 
 Anil, who runs a pan kiosk next to the hotel, was still shaken when TOI spoke to him. “Many students were staying at the hotel. First, a portion of the right side of the hotel collapsed on an auto parts shop and an ATM. Then, all hell broke loose. The whole thing came down,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 Panic spread in the area as a large plume of dust rose into the night sky. Hundreds of locals rushed to help. Police arrived within 20 minutes and cordoned off the square where roads from the bus-stand and railway station converged. As the crowd swelled, police had to use mild force to keep people at bay.
 
 MS Hotel was a dilapidated building, but the officials couldn’t say for sure if Indore Municipal Corporation had declared it a dangerous structure.
 
