NEW DELHI: The impasse between the   and   is not showing any symptoms of thawing. The   on Sunday issued a press note saying that important files sent to   Anshu Prakash’s residence were not accepted and it was said that they be sent during office hours on Monday. The government statement said these were “important files containing comments of the chief minster” in preparations of the annual budget speech.

 While Prakash was not available for comment, sources said that he was not at home when the files were sent. Also, there was no prior message given to him about any important documents being delivered. Prakash’s domestic help has strict instructions not to receive any sealed packets containing documents or otherwise if he is not at home, sources said.
 
 The government statement, however, described the development as “extremely shocking” and went on to point out that “when the files were sent in the morning, the CS residence informed that they be sent during office hours on Monday.” The budget session of Delhi assembly is scheduled to begin on March 16.   was in Chhattisgarh on Sunday.
 
 The files are related to fixing accountability in setting up of mohalla and polyclinics, which are a priority for the government. In the first file, Kejriwal had asked Prakash how specific timelines — from completion of construction to recruitment of doctors and final operation — of nearly 830 mohalla clinics will be adhered to.
 
 The file that had been sent to Kejriwal didn’t contain any specific deadlines despite clear instructions from the health minister. The government claimed that even though the health department has received NOCs for 830 new mohalla clinics, estimated timelines for construction of only 243 new clinics have been provided so far.
 
 The second file contained only a tentative timeline of 12 months for making operational 47 polyclinics in the first phase and another 47 in the second phase.
 
 Calling the fresh allegations against Prakash a “vindictive move”, senior bureaucrats from the joint forum pointed that the CS was not at home. Secondly, he doesn’t directly deal with the budget-making exercise.
 
 “It is the principal secretary (finance) who is in-charge. As far as mohalla clinics are concerned, it is the health secretary and health minister who would know the details sought. Hence, the CS cannot give such information without consulting the health department and looking at other files,” a bureaucrat pointed out. As far as timelines go, the bureaucracy said that they are in any case set out for all projects and schemes.
 
 
