VIJAYAWADA: The   (BIE) has geared up to effectively conduct the   to be held starting from Wednesday, February 28th. 

 Around 10, 26,891 students are taking the theory examinations in some 1,423 centres, and 48 self-centres across the state. As part of the measures, the board has installed CC cameras in all the centres. 
 
 It is utilizing all the 924 practical examination centres where the CC cameras were already installed for the theory exams, and the instructions were given to install CC cameras in the rest of the 499   centres.
 
 The board has also come up with an application ‘IPE Centre locator APP’ to help students and parents locate and get directions to the exam centres using their Android mobiles. The application can be downloaded from play store. All the chief superintendents of the centres were instructed to provide protected drinking water facilities, furniture, uninterrupted supply of electricity, and sufficient lighting in rooms and toilets at the centres.
 
 The board advised the candidates appearing for the exam to be present in the examination centre 30 minutes before the commencement of the exam. Candidates reporting after 9.00 am will not be allowed into the examination hall. The candidates should also verify the correctness of their names, medium, and subjects that they are appearing indicated in their hall tickets, and should report of any discrepancies to their college principals. The   can be downloaded online at jnanabhumi.ap.gov.in.
 
 The candidates are not allowed to bring any printed material, cell phones, pagers, calculators or any other electronic gadgets to the examination hall. 
 
 They are also responsible to hand over the answer sheets to the examiner and take back the hall tickets at the end of the examination.
 
 There will be multiple sets of question papers for the examination and a set will be randomly drawn and announced every day in the morning of the examination. 
 
 The board advised the students to not to believe in any rumours regarding leakage of question papers.
 
 
