GURUGRAM: A group of residents from Bhondsi called on deputy commissioner (DC)   on Monday, demanding speedy investigation into the arson and vandalism that took place during anti-Padmaavat protests last month.

 The residents, in their memorandum, also requested the DC to set free the juveniles who were picked up by the police for allegedly being part of the mobs that had set a Haryana Roadways bus on fire and pelted stones on a school bus carrying children home.
 
 According to police, a total of 20 people, including seven minors, were arrested in connection with the violence in different parts of the city. Two minors have already been discharged while the remaining five are currently in an observation home in Faridabad.
 
 “Two minors have already been released. We think that all our kids are innocent. However, we have told the DC that if any evidence is found that suggests their involvement in the violence, we will not support them,” said Sandeep, one of the villagers and a member of  .
 
 “Some of the detained children have exams in March. We are just asking the authorities to speed up the probe and release those who are innocent. The DC has promised us that he will speak to the commissioner of police and request him to complete the investigation fast,” he added. Another villager alleged protestors, mostly members of   and Ma Padmaavati Sena, had deliberately planned the violence near Bhondsi village. By the time police swung into action, the actual trouble makers fled the scene while people, who had only come out of the village and found roaming around the spot, got arrested.
 
 “We have received a representation from parents of the juveniles of Bhondsi. After hearing them, I have sent it to the office of the police commissioner as the matter is under investigation and sub judice,” said the deputy commissioner. Police said two of the seven detained minors were released after the SIT, which is probing the matter, found that though they were picked up from the spot of the violence, they were not involved in it. “The SIT has not found any evidence against them and, therefore, has discharged them,” said a member of the SIT. A couple days ago, the city police also discharged an accused, Subhash (19), who was arrested on the day of the violence but later found to be innocent.
 
 
