CHENNAI:   working president   on Thursday claimed that   Banwarilal Purohit was not too happy with the functioning of the Edappadi K Palaniswami government. Stalin said the governor had expressed his unhappiness with the EPS government’s performance, when he met him at Raj Bhavan on March 30.

 “A week ago I met the governor, on his invitation, in Raj Bhavan. During the meeting, the governor openly discussed with me about the wrong-doings of the government. Every one knows what opinion the governor has about this government,” said Stalin, talking to reporters at a marriage hall, where he was kept after being taken into custody for protesting during the Thursday bandh.
 
 “Only because he lacks trust on this government, the Governor is moving on a separate track and conducting reviews. If he was happy with the way this government is functioning, there was no need for him to conduct such reviews,” said Stalin. 
 
 “Just like the farce they committed in the form of hunger protest over Cauvery, the chief minister and deputy chief minister have now met the governor and lying to the people that the governor was happy with the functioning of the   government,” he said. Stalin was responding to a question on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s assertion to the media, after meeting the governor along with the deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Wednesday evening, on the eve of the opposition bandh.
 
 Reacting to this, the   hit back at Stalin strongly for bringing to light on what transpired in the meeting with governor, after almost a week. “It is more than a week since Stalin met the governor. He had then elaborately explained about his meeting to the reporters, after coming out of the meeting the same day. But, did not mention anything about governor expressing his unhappiness about government on that day. Stalin must not have pulled in the governor into this issue now, since he is not heading any political party,” said former AIADMK minister P Valarmathi. 
 
 But political analysts look at this differently. “Stalin has raised the issue at an opportune moment and exactly a day after chief minister was ‘summoned’ by the governor,” said political analyst Tharasu Shyam. A chief minister coming out and saying that the governor was happy with their explanation itself shows that the governor had certain doubts about the ground situation in   and had sought the explanation from the government. It is a sort of enquiry, said Shyam. The Raj Bhavan has not reacted to either the chief minister’s statement about governor expressing happiness about the functioning of the government on Wednesday or to what Stalin had claimed on Thursday. “Unless the governor reacts, we will not know which is right,” said Shyam.
 
 
