Bengaluru: The new Bangalore Central University (BCU) is mulling over introducing a five-year rigorous integrated Science course at its Central College campus.

 The course will see students graduate with a general BSc degree in Science and an MSc in a specialization. The course introduced in the unified Bangalore University a few years ago wasn’t a huge hit. S Japhet, BCU vice-chancellor, said the university is yet to decide whether to allow students to leave the integrated course midway with a Bachelor’s degree.
 
 “We consulted a few professors from the Indian Institute of Science. Students keen on pursuing Science long term will be interested in this course,” he said, adding that the final call will be taken by the yet-to-be constituted Board of Studies.
 
 BCU has also applied for 20 additional departments, which if approved by the UGC, can start from the next academic session. Degrees in urban studies, public policy, digital media studies and animation are among the few courses on the anvil.
 
 The department of skill development and entrepreneurship which would offer a Bachelors and Masters in Vocational Studies has been proposed. “There will be three- and two-year courses with a number of disciplines. The idea is to focus on hard and soft skills and to enhance employability. Degrees in vocational studies are currently offered in six colleges in our jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 The 20 departments, if approved, will be in addition to eight departments currently operating from the campus.
 
 Sixteen colleges have sought to be part of BCU for the next academic session and local inquiry committees (LIC) will visit them this month to check the feasibility.
 
 Varsity launch tomorrow
 
 The Bangalore Central University will be inaugurated on March 7 by chief minister S Siddaramaiah. Union ministers DV Sadananda Gowda, Ananth Kumar and Nirmala Sitharaman have been invited as chief guests, but governor Vajubhai Vala, the chancellor, doesn’t figure among the invitees.
 
 “We had about 10-15 days to plan the event. When you invite the governor, it takes 2-3 months of planning to confirm his availability. He has his own protocol and we were not ready for an event of that scale. It’s due to many factors that we couldn’t invite him but he remains the pro-chancellor,” BCU vice chancellor S Japhet said.
 
 The Rs 25-lakh launch at the Central College cricket stadium will be attended by 10,000 people, including staff, students and management of 230-odd affiliate colleges.
 
 
