CHENNAI : Frequent riders of   may be looking forward to the opening of a 3.3-km   stretch beneath  , between AG-DMS and  , but nothing quite compares to the anticipation of motorists waiting for vehicular movement to be streamlined again above the transit system’s tunnels — once the busy section of road reverts to   traffic.

 With work abuzz on the underground stretch, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd officials expect the wait to last less than a month.
 
 The commissioner of metro rail safety will between May 14 and 16 inspect the line. After the line gets the go-ahead, the officials said, the traffic police will restore two-way traffic on the corresponding stretch of Anna Salai.
 
 Motorists have for six years — since the construction of the underground section beneath Anna Salai started — had to contend with an obstacle course of constantly changing lanes, endless traffic snarls and a severely damaged road surface. As appreciative as they were about the extension of the metro rail network, they put up with chaotic traffic diversions, every time   cordoned off major portions of Anna Salai. In parts, Anna Salai had only one-way traffic; in others, motorists had to drive or ride through narrow strips with vehicles going in both directions.
 
 To make matters worse, construction along a 7.3-km section between May Day Park and Saidapet stations stalled for almost a year after a Russian contractor pulled out. Several shopkeepers along the route said they, too, took a hit.
 
 In a sign that metro rail’s birthing pangs are at an end, for motorists at least, the four metro stations on the stretch are receiving final touches. Workers are closing pits for construction and, bit by bit, giving Anna Salai a brand new top. Workers recently laid fresh layers of bitumen on parts of the road near AG-DMS, the SIET signal, Nandanam intersection and in Saidapet.
 
 “Since major construction work is complete, we have started to lay bitumen in portions,” a CMRL official said. “To restore the road, we also need to build the central median. It should all be ready within a month.”
 
 But CMRL expects the stretch between May Day Park and AG-DMS to open to two-way traffic only by the end of the year because work on stations is still in progress.
 
 
