A bungalow in the silent by-lanes of Kothrud has been bustling with activity since the last few days. This is the rehearsal space for   that is gearing up to celebrate successful completion of 10 years with a theatre festival in Mumbai and Pune. For starters, the group, consisting mostly of   alumni, is famous for plays like Geli Ekvees Varsha, Mi Ghalib, Institute of Pavtology and more. But more recently, it has become a talking point due to the rising popularity of people like  , Nipun Dharmadhikari, Siddharth Menon, Abhay Mahajan and   who have been part of Natak Company since forever and have now become established actors/ directors in the Marathi film industry.

  
  
 The festival will begin today and end on Saturday in Mumbai where six of the group’s plays will be staged. However, Puneites are in for a bigger treat with 10 of the plays to be staged in the city from June 5 to 9. Speaking about reuniting for the festival, Amey says, “When we started rehearsing for the festival, more than half the time went in reminiscing about the days when we originally staged the plays. Then we realised that we needed to focus on rehearsing as well.” Amey informs that they couldn’t find most of the scripts for the plays and had to rely on video recordings that they had.
 
  
  
 
 
 Alok, who featured in the National Award-winning film   and who is the director of six of the 10 plays being staged, feels that the whole process is interesting. “For me, these plays represent various stages of transformation in our lives. To understand what our mindset was at that point of time and how it has evolved is a fantastic process in itself,” he says.
 
 
  
  
 Natak Company, over the years, has turned into a stable for rearing some of the best artistes in the Marathi industry, but none of the now established names have distanced themselves from their roots. Siddharth shares, “Everyone has taken time out for the rehearsals and then for the entire length of the festival. You won’t see this kind of belongingness anywhere else. This festival is a celebration of our passion and friendship.”
 So, if you are free next week, reserve your evenings for this theatrical fiesta. 
 
  
  
 The festival will held at Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha, Kothrud from June 5-9. 
