On February 1, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley announced the Union Budget. The allocation of funds is higher by less than four per cent in the revised budget estimate of the current year. Bombay Times spoke to college students who shared their thoughts on the present allocation of funds and the revisions they would like to see, if given a choice... 

 
 
 The Finance Minister emphasised on the fact that the government will launch the Prime Minister’s Research Fellow Scheme (PMRF) in 2018, which will have 1,000 best BTech students from premier institutions do their PhDs in IIT and IISc every year. Mumbai collegians, however, feel that there is a need for more schemes to come in. Smit Shah, a PGDM student from SP Mandali’s  , says, “There is a need to have more schemes like National Apprenticeship Scheme. It offers a stipend that will support and share the cost of basic training by the government for 50 lakh youngsters by 2020.”
 
 Abhinav Kulkarni, a PGDM student from KJ Somaiya Institute of Management Studies and Research, adds, “The integration of multiple education schemes into one is also a welcome step towards streamlining of processes. Overall, the allocation towards education sector is satisfactory, but can improve further.”
 
 
 
 
 While students appreciate the steps being taken to provide financial aid to education, they wish that the government looks into getting EMI study options and tax deductions in place. Says Suraj Thakur, a PGDM Healthcare Management student from Welingkars, “The budget emphasised on National Testing Agency, which will improve the quality and transparency of national tests for students aspiring for higher education. Higher Education Financing Authority (HEFA) is also a great step and takes care of the reforms needed in the education sector. However, there’s a need for more in terms of tax deductions and EMI study options.”
 
 “There could have been a separate tax relief for educational expenses,” says Krisha Shah, a business design student from the institute. She adds, “If there was a tax deduction for this purpose, the larger mass would benefit greatly. There can be deductions for expenses related to computer-aided learning, transportation, hostels, special coaching, daily meals, etc. As students, these expenses matter the most to us.” 
 
 
 
 For students looking out for immediate placements, deduction of corporate taxes, they feel, will help them in the long run. They feel it will allow them to invest, have better purchasing power and lead to a balanced life. Madhur Jain, a PGDM student from a management institute, says, “The budget was expected to have tax exemptions and incentives for the salaried class, as they are the largest in numbers to pay taxes. Instead, with more taxes being imposed, it seems to have become difficult. As a youngster, we need jobs and platforms to prove our capabilities. The present environment is not conducive for businesses to flourish.”
 
 Adding to this, Krisha says, “As a potential job seeker, the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) being deducted to eight per cent in all sectors for women is a key benefit. This encourages more take-home pay and increase in purchasing power. But apart from this, I hardly see any benefits for students. While it’s great that the budget focuses on agriculture and rural economy, infrastructure and health benefits for senior citizens, what about students?”
 
 
 
  While youngsters feel that there is a need to have more programmes and initiatives in focus to provide quality education, they feel charged to see the effort to make 
 education digital. Says Shrinidhi Shetty, an EMBA student from  , “I appreciate the fact that the government has finally recognised the importance of improving the quality of education and taken steps for the same. However, it has still not outlined a concrete plan in place.” Vinayak Mane, a FinTech student from the same institute, feels that the move to transform age-old traditional blackboards to digital boards will offer enhanced learning experience to students. He adds, “The promotion of digital platforms and use of technology will increase the reach and ensure better productivity from government schools and colleges.” 
 
 Sameeksha Phadke, a FYJC Arts student from Mithibai College, says, “The plan to introduce five lakh WiFi hotspots in rural areas is an interesting addition. This will provide easy internet access to students there and will, indirectly, benefit staff and pupils.” Calling the move applaud-worthy, Sheena Oberoi, a third year BMS student from St Xavier’s College, says, “The government’s idea of having better quality and higher education is worth an applaud. I am also glad to see that the budget allotted to education sector, this year, is better than the one that was allocated last year.”
 
 
 
