Mumbai: State-run JJ Hospital’s 400-odd resident doctors, who continued their ‘mass bunk’ for the second day on Sunday, will stay away on Monday as well after talks with government officials to resolve the vexed   issue failed.

 Late on Sunday, resident doctors of BMC-run   said they too would stay away from work to show their solidarity to JJ doctors.
 
 The doctors went on a ‘strike’ after four   of a dead patient assaulted two resident doctors, Dr Atish Parekh and Dr Shalmali Dharmadhikari, and ransacked ward number 11 early on Saturday. Dr Parekh has a fractured cheek bone and Dr Dharmadhikari—a junior resident who joined JJ barely 10 days back—is mentally traumatized. “Both are admitted in the ward,” said Dr Sarang Donarkar, president of JJ Hospital’s branch of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD).
 
 MARD wants a round-the-clock security guard in each ward as well as an alarm system to deal with the violence issue. “We want the government to give this assurance to us in writing,” said Dr Donarkar. MARD has reasons to be skeptical. “Eighteen months back, the state promised to instal an alarm system to discourage such assaults, but nothing has happened so far. Moreover, the number of guards too has dwindled in the same period,” he said.
 
 The state medical education officials say the students’ demand for “immediate” solution isn’t possible. “The government machinery works follows certain rules. We need time to work out a solution,” said JJ Hospital dean Dr S Nanandkar.
 
 The officials said the resident doctors’ demand can only be met if the number of security guards is doubled. “We have 80 guards employed by the hospital and another 89 from a private security firm,” said Dr Nanandkar. Taking into account that guards would work in three shifts and need holidays, JJ Hospital would need around 300 security guards. A DMER official said many clearances and financial decisions are needed before giving a written assurance to increase guards.
 
 Meanwhile, vacation of all medical teachers in JJ Hospital has been cancelled and they have to report to work on Monday. “We will attend to all emergencies and surgeries that need to be urgently done,” Dr Donarkar said. MARD officials said that resident doctors would continue to help in the emergency ward.
 
 
