Honouring the best in the world of movies, the   are not without their own quirks. As host   took the stage for a second consecutive year in a row, after a black-and-white intro recorded in his own voice, the 90th Annual Academy Awards started off with a jibe on last year’s infamous goof-up. 

 Jimmy claimed that the accounting firm promised on getting the final envelopes right. The mood of the night has been set from the onset, as Jimmy referred to   being expelled from the Academy and offered support to anti workplace harassment initiatives like ‘Time’s Up’, ‘Me Too’, and ‘Never Again’.
 
 It wasn’t only jokes, as Jimmy spoke about the many firsts at the historic 90th Academy Awards. From   being the first woman to be nominated for her directorial debut ‘Lady Bird’, to   being the youngest nominee at the Oscars.
 
 The first award of the night was Best Actor in a Supporting Role and the trophy was presented by last year’s Best Actress in a Supporting Role winner Viola Davis. Sam Rockwell won the prestigious award for his performance in ‘Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri’.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The next award to be presented was Makeup and Hairstyling and ‘Wonder Woman’ actress Gal Gadot and ‘Call Me by Your Name’ actor Armie Hammer presented the award to Kazuhiro Tsuji, David Malinowski and Lucy Sibbick for ‘Darkest Hour’.
 
 Eva Marie Saint, who won the Oscar for Best Actress in a Supporting Role in 1955 for her part in ‘On the Waterfront’, was called upon to do the honours for the Costume Design category. Mark Bridges won the Oscar for Daniel Day-Lewis starrer ‘Phantom Thread’. This is his second award in the same category after winning it for ‘The Artist’.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The next category up for grabs was Documentary (Feature) and Greta Gerwig and Laura Dern were called upon stage to present it. Bryan Fogel and Dan Cogan picked up their first Oscar for ‘Icarus’. Host Jimmy Kimmel next introduced Taraji P. Henson to introduce Mary J. Blige for her performance. 
 
 Blige has the rare honour of being nominated in two categories in the same year. She is nominated in the Best Supporting Actress and Best Original Song categories. Mary enthralled the gathered audience at the Dolby Theatre with her rendition of her Academy Award-nominated song ‘Mighty River’ from ‘Mudbound’. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 ‘Baby Driver’ stars Eiza González and Ansel Elgort presented the Academy award for Sound Editing to Richard King and Alex Gibson for ‘Dunkirk’. They also handed out the award for Sound Mixing to Gregg Landaker, Gary A. Rizzo and Mark Weingarten for ‘Dunkirk’. 
 
 Next up, Lupita Nyong'o and Kumail Nanjiani presented the Academy award for Production Design. Paul Denham Austerberry Shane Vieau and Jeffrey A. Melvin picked up the first Oscar of the night for Guillermo del Toro’s ‘The Shape of Water’.
 
  ‘Remember Me’ from ‘Coco’, another song that finds itself nominated in the Music (Original Song) category, was performed fantastically by Gael Garcia Bernal, Miguel and Natalia Lafourcade. The three artists were introduced by Eugenio Derbez on stage.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Legendary actress Rita Morena was called upon stage to present the Academy award for Foreign Language Film. Chilean film ‘A Fantastic Woman’ was honoured with the prestigious award.
 
 Last year’s winner of the Academy award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role, Mahershala Ali walked on stage to present the award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Allison Janney picked up her first Academy award for her performance in ‘I, Tonya’. This was also her first nomination at the Oscars. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Stars of ‘The Last Jedi’ Mark Hamill, Kelly Marie Tran, Oscar Isaac and the effervescent BB-8 were called on stage to present the Academy award for Animated Short Film. NBA legend Kobe Bryant and Glen Keane picked up the Oscar for ‘Dear Basketball’. Keane thanked his wife and Kobe for writing the film. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Oscar Isaac announced the next winner. Lee Unkrich and Darla K. Anderson picked up the Oscar for ‘Coco’ in the Animated Feature Film category.
 
 The star of ‘A Fantastic Woman’ Daniela Vega introduced Sufjan Stevens who performed his Academy award-nominated composition ‘Mystery of Love’ from ‘Call Me by Your Name’.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  ‘Jane The Virgin’ star Gina Rodriguez and ‘Spider-Man: Homecoming’ actor Tom Holland were up next to present the Academy award for Visual Effects. John Nelson, Gerd Nefzer, Paul Lambert and Richard R. Hoover bagged the Oscar for Ryan Gosling starrer ‘Blade Runner 2049’.
 
 Matthew McConaughey announced the next Oscar winner. Lee Smith claimed the Academy award for Film Editing for his work in 'Dunkirk'.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Lupita Nyong'o, Mark Hamill, Lin Manuel Miranda, Gal Gadot, Armie Hammer, Guillermo del Toro, Ansel Elgort, Emily Blunt and host Jimmy Kimmel surprised viewers of the Oscars at the Chinese Theatre next door. The celebrity troupe walked in with hotdogs and other snacks as the guests at the cinema hall couldn’t contain their joy.
 
  Mike Young, a patron at the Chinese Theatre was asked by Jimmy to introduce the next two presenters, Tiffany Haddish and Maya Rudolph. They presented the Oscar for Documentary Short Subject to Frank Stiefel for ‘Heaven Is a Traffic Jam on the 405’. Tiffany and Maya also handed out the Oscar for Short Film (Live Action) to Chris Overton and Rachel Shenton for ‘The Silent Child’. Rachel delivered her acceptance speech in sign language as well, in keeping with a promise she made to the film’s lead actress Maisie Sly.
 
 Comedian Dave Chapelle introduced Common and Andra Day before their riveting performance of their Academy award-nominated song 'Stand Up for Something' from the film 'Marshall'. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Speaking about the continuous change in the landscape of Hollywood, Ashley Judd, Annabella Sciorra and Salma Hayek made their way on stage. They were followed by a video montage featuring new voices from the industry who are paving the way for more relatable content for everyone.
 
  Best Actress nominee Margot Robbie and Chadwick Boseman were up next on stage to present the Academy award for Adapted Screenplay. James Ivory grabbed the Oscar for his writing for ‘Call Me by Your Name’ and said that he would like to first thank the author of the book by the same name - André Aciman. 
 
 Nicole Kidman was the presenter for the next award. She handed the award for Original Screenplay to Jordan Peele for ‘Get Out’. Peele delivered a rousing speech that asked all to embrace love in times of hate.
 
  Sandra Bullock was up on stage next to present the Academy award for Cinematography. The Oscar went to the 14-time nominated Roger A. Deakins for ‘Blade Runner 2049’. The legendary cameraman kept his speech short, but was definitely high on emotion.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Zendaya introduced Keala Settle to perform the last Original Song nomination for the night. Keala delivered a passionate rendition of ‘This Is Me’ from ‘The Greatest Showman’.
 
  Winner of Actor in a Supporting Role for his 1978 film ‘The Deer Hunter’ Christopher Walken presented the award for Original Score. Alexandre Desplat bagged his second Oscar in this category for ‘The Shape of Water’. Desplat had earlier won the Oscar for his score for ‘The Grand Budapest Hotel’.
 
  Lin Manuel Miranda and Emily Blunt announced the next awardee. Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez bagged the Academy Award for Original Song for their composition ‘Remember Me’ from ‘Coco’.
 
 Jennifer Garner introduced Eddie Vedder, who performed Tom Petty’s ‘Room at the Top’ for the in memoriam tribute. The Academy also paid homage to the late Indian actors Sridevi and Shashi Kapoor in the tribute video.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Last year’s Best Actress in a Leading Role Oscar winner Emma Stone presented the Academy award for Directing. Guillermo del Toro claimed the honours for his film ‘The Shape of Water’. With his win, del Toro became the third immigrant director to pick up the Oscar for Directing in the last five years.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Jane Fonda and Dame Helen Mirren walked on-stage to present the Academy award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. The Oscar was bagged by Gary Oldman for his portrayal of Winston Churchill in ‘Darkest Hour’. This was his second nomination and first win at the Oscars.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Jennifer Lawrence stepped on-stage with Jodie Foster, who walked with the support of crutches, to present the Academy award for Best Actress in a Leading Role. Frances McDormand claimed the honours for ‘Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri’. She won the Oscar for Best Actress for the second time, after winning it first for ‘Fargo’ in 1997. Frances said that she was hyperventilating as she walked up. After thanking the film’s makers, she requested all the ladies, who have been nominated in any categories, to stand up with her and share this moment. Frances had two words to sign off her speech with, “Inclusion Rider”.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  An “inclusion rider” is a clause in an actor’s contract that requires the cast and crew be diverse in order to retain the actor. 
 
 
  ‘Bonnie and Clyde’ actors Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway were back to present the Academy Award for Best Picture. They were brought on-stage not without a little reference to the last year’s goof-up while announcing the Best Picture award. Guillermo del Toro’s ‘The Shape of Water’ bagged the Oscar for Best Picture. Guillermo del Toro thanked his influencers like Steven Spielberg and ended his speech by saying, “This (Hollywood) is a door, kick it in and come in”.
 
 The night ended with the team of 'The Shape of Water' celebrating on the stage at the 90th Annual Academy Awards.
