KOLKATA: The Special Task Force (STF) of   arrested two suspected members of the neo-JMB (Jamaat-Ul-Mujahideen) — that has links with IS — with 50kg ammonium nitrate. The outfit is part of a module that triggered a blast at   during the Dalai Lama’s visit on January 19. The duo told the cops that the IED recovered at Bodh Gaya was sourced from West Bengal.

 Apart from ammonium nitrate — a cheap fertiliser that can be used to make deadly explosive devices, electronic devices, gloves, other chemicals and booklets were recovered from the duo. Ammonium nitrate is harmless on its own and safe to store, but can be used as the main ingredient to make an explosive device. In 2013 Hyderbad blasts, only 1kg of the chemical was used to make two IEDs that killed 16 people.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Both the accused arrested on Wednesday are residents of Murshidabad and have confessed to police that they wanted to “avenge the continued genocide and torture of Rohingyas in Myanmar.” Police suspect, little-known Rohingya terror group   (AMM) has developed ties with the the JMB, just like the Jaishe-Mohammed (JeM) cell in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 The accused have been identified as Md Paigamber Sk
 
 (24) of Kankuria village in Murshidabad’s   and Jamiul Sk (31) of Dakshin Para (Ratanpur), also in Samersanj. Paigamber was nabbed around 4pm from his house. Five hours later, Jamiul was arrested from Phansidewa in Darjeeling. The duo was remanded in two weeks’ police custody by a local court.
 
 Police recovered a huge quantity of chemicals from their houses. Kolkata Police, with the help of state and central agencies, has been carrying out raids across three districts in the state and Bihar to nab other members of the Bodh Gaya module.
 
 “We learnt that the neo-JMB, now aligned with the Islamic State (IS), was trying to reopen its sleeper cells across two districts in Bengal. Accordingly, a few people were detained for questioning. Among them were people from Murshidabad and Assam, who gave us leads on others. We finally pinned down Paigamber, whose interrogation revealed that he was trained in 2012-13 by Bangladeshi handlers, including JMB explosives expert Haath-Kata Nasirullah. Even until recently, he might have been in touch with supreme leader Salauddin. Central agencies had summoned Paigamber after the Khagragarh blasts in 2014 but was released due to insufficient evidence,” said DC (STF)  .
 
 “The improvised explosive device recovered at Bodh Gaya might have come from Bangladesh. We are still ascertaining their exact roles in the JMB module,” said Sharma.
 
 According to sources, Paigamber told the cops that he was the Imam of Colony Para Masjid in Samserganj. He was taught at a madrassa and a local academy, run by a trust. He also in aatar (perfume) business. His aide Jamiul trades in fodder. “They visited Assam and Karnataka several times. Their Aadhaar cards are genuine. However, Paigamber, who holds a genuine passport, has no stamps that show he crossed over legally to Bangladesh,” said a senior police officer.
 
