A day after a   and abused outside the   station on Thursday evening for  , a 20-year-old   in Bengaluru recounted the horror as she spoke to TOI .

 We were peacefully protesting against the April 30 incident outside the Metro station by singing songs and holding placards, when a middle-aged man in a yellow shirt appeared and started abusing us. He also spoke in support of the mob that had assaulted the couple.
 
 
 I felt bad and moved to the front row along with my friends to protest against the abuse. In fact, our mission was to educate people like this man about how moral policing is against human rights. We tried to make him understand that his opinion was wrong, and that we were not bothering anyone.
 
 However, he continued to abuse us which led to a verbal altercation and some other Metro passengers joined him. As things got heated, the man kept his hand on my chest and pushed me while hurling abuses. I almost fell down but my friends helped me up. By then, the man began running away. Some of my friends chased him and those supporting him but the man entered the Metro station. Cops posted at the entrance allowed him inside but stopped my friends. The man even stood behind the cops and hurled abuse at us but the police personnel did not react.
 
 Humiliated and assaulted, I resolved to lodge a police complaint against the man. We even had video evidence as one of our friends was recording the entire incident. We first went to the Metro authorities who asked us to go to the Dum Dum GRP office — situated in the same station. We went there but the official said the incident occurred outside the station premises so it would fall under the jurisdiction of Sinthee police station.
 
 We then went to the Sinthee police station but were shocked when the officer on-duty started shouting at us asking what were we doing there. On learning that I was molested, he began quizzing my friends and asked for all of their phone numbers and address details, adding that an FIR could not be registered unless my friends gave the details. He refused to consider our complaint letter as an FIR and asked us to leave.
 
 However, I’m resolved to carry forward the protest. We went to the same spot on Friday too and protested against the issue. I’ll again go to the police station on Saturday as I learnt that they have finally registered the FIR and started investigation from Friday.
 
 As told to Tamaghna Banerjee
 
 
