KOLKATA: A 46-year-old civil engineer suffering from a spinal pain that made movement difficult spent Rs 60,000 to hire supari killers and used the past six months of his forced confinement to plan the   of his wife, 32-year-old Shampa Das. Das, a civic volunteer attached with the New Town police was found murdered at her residence in Kaikhali on Friday. Her husband initially claimed it was a robbery gone wrong. 

 
 "We have arrested Shampa's husband Supratim and her mother-in-law  , 59, for hatching the conspiracy," said Amit Javalgi, DC (headquarters,  ). Three persons from Minakha - two of them with a criminal past - have either been detained by police or are in the process of being detained for carrying out the murder. 
 
 "We found that Supratim knew Rashid Molla. Rashid is a part-time sweeper employed with the  . He would come to the Das's residence to offer massages to Supratim to relieve him of pain. It was Molla to whom Supratim turned to carry out the job. Molla contacted two criminals from Minakha to complete the job," said an officer.
 
 Airport police sources said that on Friday Shampa was asked to return home early from her duty at Eco Park in order to cook meat. Shampa came in 15 minutes early at 8.30pm. By then, Meera had asked Shampa's son to go out to buy food. "The three assailants were waiting inside the house. As soon as Shampa walked in, they overpowered her and attacked her with a knife. While leaving, they used a pillow to smother her and ensure that she died. They were paid Rs 59,000 in cash by Supratim. The rest was to be collected from the money they gathered by selling Shampa's ornaments which they took away," claimed a source. 
 
 Officers said Supratim has claimed his wife had been "misbehaving" with him and his mother. "He claimed they were being tortured to hand over his property to her," said an officer. Shampa's brother, however, has claimed it was Shampa who was regularly victimized. "There is a small property in her name in Rajarhat, which Supratim wanted her to hand over to him. When Shampa refused, they killed her," he said on Monday.
 
