Some of us are natural risk takers, some walk with caution, and some stay away from risk altogether. But the world we live in requires all of us to play the risky business, or at least, be prepared for it once in a while. The conventional career paths no longer exist in most developed economies and we are living in a world with no guaranteed jobs or careers for life. 

 Bill Aulet, a senior lecturer at MIT Sloan School of Management thinks in these uncertain times, taking risks is the least risky thing to do. Canadian author   talked extensively on risk-taking abilities in her TEDtalk, Addicted to Risk. Here are a few ways you can learn to take risks for better outcomes. 
 
 
 
 We might come from a society or social group that values steady and safe successes. A person’s risk-taking ability might be low in such a case. However, some economies and societies breed risk-takers like California’s Silicon Valley or the start-up culture anywhere in the world, where taking risks is fundamental to attain success. 
 
 Psychologist   says, “When you walk with confidence, you transmit neurons that make you appear confident. You have chances of becoming a risk taker because people around you see that aura of confidence and risk-taking capabilities in you.”
 
 
 
 We need a change in approach towards life. Neuroscientist Dr   gives the perfect motivation. “When you’re gearing up for a fight or you’ve taken a risk and it’s paid off well, your testosterone levels increase and you become more confident.” Psychologist Dr   adds, “It is your experiences and emotional history that will define how many risks you take in life.” But you’ve got to start right now. Take small calculated risks to train your mind, and then move forward to bigger challenges.
 
 It’s time to change that pride we derive from being perfectly organised. Experts believe to train your mind to take risks, you have to learn to live and then thrive in chaos. 
 
 
 
 Don’t overthink about what’s going to happen next. Irrational thoughts prevent us from knowing our own potential. Says sports psychologist  , “In sports, players have tremendous pressure to be on top of their curve. There’s stress to continuously perform well. They don’t focus on what can go wrong. That’s how they become mentally tough.” In short, stop thinking about worst case scenarios.
 
 
 
 Traveller and science writer   has a knack for taking on taboo topics and writes on various subjects, from love, sex, neuroscience to travel and politics. In her book, The Art of Risk: The New Science of Courage, Caution & Chance, she says, everyone is a risk-taker, thus, everyone has the power to use uncertainty to his/her advantage.
 
 We are living in a world where there are no guaranteed jobs or careers, for life. It requires all of us to play the risky business, or at least be prepared for it . 
 
 
