LUCKNOW: After   exam paper asked its MA political science students to write an essay on  , now   asked its BCom final year students to write on various policies of   government.

 The Applied Economics ‘Indian Economic Structure’ exam held on March 17, carried questions asking students to write about BJP government’s different policies in brief. The first question, which was compulsory, asked students to explain BJP government’s seven schemes in brief, each carrying four marks.
 
 
 The question gave ten topics to write about in brief with seven of them being Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, Digital India, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana, Soil Health Card Scheme, Startup India, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana, all schemes launched by BJP government at Centre.
 
 VK Goswami, professor of applied economics at LU, said there was nothing wrong in the questions as they were very much from syllabus. “The setting of question paper and its moderation is confidential. So, one doesn’t know who set the paper. The students have to go through various schemes as they have to understand the structure of Indian economics,” Prof Goswami said.
 
 Prof Goswami’s Facebook page carries a poster extending support to BJP as cover photo. When asked if he holds any post in BJP, he said, “I am just a party worker. But I am teacher at LU first.”
 
 The question on BJP schemes raised many eyebrows on campus. Students said they were confused as to whether it was a question paper or a government scheme brochure. “It’s true that political parties are part of our syllabus, but asking about the schemes launched by BJP at a time when 2019 Lok Sabha elections are approaching, seems to be a gimmick to promote the schemes,” said a student.
 
 Another student saw nothing objectionable in the questions, and said, “It’s important for us to know about the various policies the government has for peoples’ welfare. They are of public interest and there is nothing wrong in it.”
 
