TUTICORIN: While the officials along with the district administration were taking steps to restore normalcy in the district, certain measures being taken by them have not gone down well with the local people, who are still hostile towards the police and claim that they continue to harass them.

 Officials said that postmortem had been completed on six of the shooting victims so far. However, Arumugam, the paternal uncle of Ranjith Kumar, 22, the boxer who lost his life in the police firing, said that a police inspector along with a revenue official had come to their house and forced them to give the inquest for the postmortem. 
 
 They also wanted it to be given in writing that the young man had died in an accident in the violence and was not hit by bullets. ``We saw bullet injuries on his body, how will we give something that would be totally unfair to him and in disrespect of his sacrifice,’’ he said.
 
 This family says that they will not receive the body till the government gives a gazette notification on the closure of Sterlite as both the chief minister and district collector continued to give oral assurances. 
 
 The point out that Sterlite authorities have claimed that they would go ahead with the operations in the plant soon. Seven families have not received the bodies yet. Meanwhile, another cause of tension among the residents was the use of drones used for surveillance by the police in   and   Nagar. While they were clamouring for the police to be removed, now they felt intimidated by the drones monitoring them. Three local teams of drone operators and their assistants were roped in by the police for the purpose. 
 
 A senior police official said that it was only a trial measure and that the additional police would be removed once normalcy was restored.
 
 Meanwhile, a 20-member team of advocates has opened a help desk of the District Legal Services Authority in two teams named A and B at the Government hospital to help the public on their immediate grievances like children missing, accessing their relatives in hospital and moving bail. 
 
 Advocates K Jagan and S R   said that the desk would operate till Sunday from 9.30 am to 6 pm and the contact numbers of the advocates have been prominently displayed for them.
 
 
