When   hit the screens, it surprised audiences with its story of an unlikely spy, a humanising portrayal of the ‘enemy’ and its non-jingoistic version of patriotism. After a packed opening weekend, the film has crossed the Rs100 crore mark in its third week, and exhibitors say anyone who’s still surprised at a female-centric, critically acclaimed film becoming a blockbuster needs to get with the programme.

 
 
 Raazi, the first collaboration between   and Dharma Productions, made history by becoming the first female-led (non-franchise) film to hit 100 crore (  being the franchise to do so). Kamal Gianchandani, CEO,  , says, “Raazi is a surprise perhaps only to those who are still clinging to the idea that women-centric films are niche experiences.”
 Rahul Kadbet, Head of Programming, Carnival Cinema, adds, “The major credit for Raazi’s success goes to the audience. The viewers have rarely discriminated as much between male-centric or female-centric films as the trade would have us believe. Also, who knows, ‘women-centric’ films might finally also inspire the leading men to take stock, and larger-than-life filmmakers to understand that budgets don’t make films better.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Yogesh Raizada, Corporate Head, Wave Cinemas, says, “We were expecting good numbers from Raazi as it became clear in the first week itself that the audience loved the film. If we look at female-led films, it has created new benchmarks, but even if you remove that point, Raazi is a class apart. It’s a class (niche) movie with a mass appeal. There was no competition for it in the second week, so it continued to grow, and in its third week also it didn’t face any competition from Parmanu: The Story Of Pokhran. Besides, Raazi has really strong characters - it’s not common to see moviegoers discussing not just how good the film was, but the characters too, while exiting the hall.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Exhibitors explain how Raazi has a mix that worked for everyone. Devang Sampat, Director, India Strategic Initiatives, Cinepolis India, tells us, “With Raazi, everything was just right–director Meghna Gulzar’s reputation from  , a star like  , and a story that hasn’t been told before. The audience has developed a taste for content-driven cinema; irrespective of star power, they go for films with content. Last year, we saw that films like Jab Harry Met Sejal, even with strong star power, couldn’t draw audiences. Also, what worked for Raazi was word-of-mouth publicity. Its second week was abnormally higher than its first week.”
 Gianchandani makes another point. “What worked for Raazi is that while deeply nationalistic, it is soft on jingoism, and probably for the first time, respects the patriotism of the neighbouring country. It is deftly directed and defies genres,” he says. Raizada agrees, “Everyone liked the film. If you are secular, you will like Raazi, if you are a patriot, you’ll like Raazi, if you are a liberal, you’ll like Raazi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 After its opening weekend and positive reviews, cinemas added screens for the film. Tinku Singh, Group president,  , says, “The audience was expecting a good film from   since it had not forgotten Talvar. However, a good blockbuster was something we in the business hadn’t anticipated.” Rajender Singh Jyala, Programming Head, INOX Leisure Ltd, adds, “Raazi crossed Rs 100 crore in three weeks, which is sometimes difficult even for big-budget films. Due to word-of-mouth publicity, Raazi in its second week did better than the opening Friday at our halls across the country. We had to add more screens.” 
 
  
  
 
 
