CHENNAI: A traditional Pongal may not always mean a trip to a distant village. For those living in Chennai’s dusty concrete jungles and unable to travel to their ancestral homes in the still-pristine villages, the harvest festival with its traditional fervour may be just an hour away. Villages on the fringes of the city are bustling with agricultural activities following a bountiful monsoon and farmers there are already celebrating a sweet Pongal.

 People in a few rural pockets, that share borders with   in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, are engaged in cultivating paddy and plantain. More than 1,000 acres of land in Vichoor, a rural hamlet sandwiched between Madhavaram and Manali New Town, is under cultivation. K Marimuthu, a farmer from the village, said the harvest festival would be celebrated by preparing sweet Pongal in earthen pots and with fire from cow dung cakes. “We take the water spilling out of the boiling pot and sprinkle it on the farmlands the next day,” he said. “Cattle used for farming are decorated and taken around the village temple on ‘Maatu Pongal’,” he added.
 
 Vichoor is one of the villages near the city where large-scale farming is practised despite growing demand for land for private container warehouses. Several farmers overcome hardships, including shortage of manpower. They hire farm workers from Nellore district in Andhra Pradesh and Villupuram district of Tamil Nadu. While farmers in the village own a majority of the agricultural land, individuals from Chennai have purchased plots and leased it out to agrarians.
 
 M Gangadharan, a government servant from Vichoor, said paucity of cattle and limited farm tractors has been a challenge. “Still, cultivation was plenty this year because of the rains that filled tanks and ponds in the village ,” he said.
 
 Some suburbs, such as Vengaivasal, about 8km from   in south Chennai, are agricultural hotspots too. About 200 acres of land is under cultivation in the village that has urbanised rapidly due to its proximity to Medvakkam. Anandan, from Virudhunagar, who is engaged in agriculture at   said only paddy is cultivated here. “People avoid other crops as it requires extensive manpower,” he said.
 
 While agricultural land inside the city is almost non-existent, a section of residents that has taken to terrace farming is also looking forward to their harvest. Residents grow tomato, green chillies, ladies finger, snake gourd, brinjal and yardlong beans in the city. S Veeralakshmi, of  , said terrace farming is not just a stress buster. “Vegetables such as cabbage and potato can be grown in this weather,” she said.
 
 And while the urban harvest may not match that reaped in the villages, residents are still looking forward to it. “I started composting at my home in order to make manure for plants. Using native variety of seeds, I began growing vegetables that I could use in the kitchen. For me every harvest is important,” said city resident J Mohaneswari.
 
 (With inputs from P Oppili and Shruti Suresh)
 
 
