NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man allegedly mixed poison in food and died along with his wife and six-year-old daughter after consuming it over a   with his father in  . 

 On Saturday morning, the police got a call from the father of the victim following an argument between the two and, on reaching the spot, found Vicky (35), Lalita (30) and Ranchi (6) unconscious in their first-floor room. The couple were taken to a nearby hospital where they were declared brought dead while the girl was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre by her uncle where she died during treatment. The couple’s three-year-old son survived as he had gone out to play at a neighbour’s house.
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said an inquest under Section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) had been initiated to further investigate the incident.
 
 Doctors told the investigating officers that all three had died due to consumption of poisoned food. Further investigations revealed that the argument had broken out between Vicky and his father, Kishori Lal, over the ownership of the first floor of their five-storey house. 
 
 Family members told the police that the deceased used to live with his family on the first floor while his father was living on the second floor. Vicky’s two brothers live on the third and fourth floors while the ground floor is used to run a tiffin service. A paying guest facility is run from the top floor of the building. 
 
 Vicky, who ran a wholesale egg shop in the area, was demanding that his father transfer the second floor in his name and Kishori Lal’s refusal had led to frequent arguments between them. 
 
 On January 2, 2017, Kishori Lal had approached the senior citizen grievance cell after a heated argument with Vicky on the same issue. Vicky had then threatened that he would consume poison along with his wife and children if the second floor was not given to him. The matter was settled for the time being through counselling.
 
 Police officers said a similar argument started on Saturday following which Vicky threatened that he was going to kill himself and locked their room as his father called the police.
 
 Cops have collected food samples from the room for forensic tests. The other members of the family are being questioned for more information and Vicky’s call details are also being analysed.
 
 
