Nagpur: Peddling patriotism can be tough, says   who has an oeuvre of two short films ‘Anaya’ on the theme of ‘Beti bachao beti padao’ and ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ which promotes unity and love for the motherland. 

 “Anaya was picked up by the ruling party and was to be launched by them for their beti bachao campaign. The six minute films were widely appreciated but I am still waiting for the launch,” says   who wrapped up a career in filmmaking in Mumbai and came to Nagpur where he has set up an institute for training aspiring filmmakers.
 
 His next project ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ has been shot at   and many other locales around the city. “Today children and youth are getting their idea of patriotism through social media posts and this is not just polarizing them but also planting seeds of hatred and intolerance towards those who don’t agree with them,” says Collins., and adds, “Saying out aloud ‘Bharat Maata Ki Jai’ is not just our dharma but our karma too.”
 
 The 15 minute film which has been scripted and directed by Collins elicited a very positive response from leaders and officials of NMC. “They gave me the permission to screen this film at various   and   schools and so far we have reached around 20,000 children,” he informs.
 
 Collins now wants to carry this film across the state. “I can’t do this unless I get some sponsors or some NGO comes forward to promote it at various institutions,” he says adding that showing a film at schools entails an expenditure as his crew has to carry the equipment to screen it.
 
 “Though they have appreciated the film, but NMC officials say they have no budget for funding this kind of project. I have spent money on making these films and they are technically and content wise very superior,” says Collins who has worked as assistant director to Ram Gopal Varma. Terming such films as significant he adds, “Today the meaning of patriotism varies from person to person. Viewing such films can get back the right perspective. But unfortunately, there is no market for these films,” he laments.
 
 Having spent nearly Rs1.5 lakh in making of Anaya and Rs5 lakh in Bharat Mata Ki Jai, Collin says that he will continue to make films on social themes. “My next is on helmet and how people avoid wearing it,” says the filmmaker who is also producing a 15 episode web series ‘John Swami’ to be released in April.
 
 
