GURUGRAM: Perched on top of an open jeep, a thin man with a thick beard shouted slogans of “Jai Karni Sena”, “Jai Bhawani” and “Rani Padmavati Zindabad”, as others followed in thunderous chorus. Around 200-250 men, who called themselves members of Gurgaon’s Karni Sena, had come to Subhash Chowk on Sunday morning. 

 The group, who blocked the busy Sohna road stretch for at least 5-10 minutes, had started their day from Begampur Khatola village, where they burnt an effigy of Sanjay Leela Bhansali, the director of the controversial big-budget Bollywood film Padmaavat.
 
 At Subhash Chowk in front of a prominent mall, one of the assembled Sena members, speaking to TOI, said while they could not stop the film’s release, they’ll make sure nobody gets to watch it. The men, who had parked their bikes, cars and jeeps on the middle of the state highway, carried sticks, and poles with saffron flags fluttering on them.
 
 Intermittently, a speaker would get on top of a jeep to shout a few slogans and deliver a short speech invoking Rajput unity. Then the men would go back to taking selfies with the crowd. Around 10 minutes later, the SHO of Sadar police station, along with other cops, arrive to ask them to move ahead. The men finish another round of sloganeering, adding “police prashasan murdabad (down with police & administration)” to their repertoire.
 
 Then they start their bikes and cars and within minutes reach MG Road. Here they block the MG Road Metro station entrance. The cops, who were following, start filming protesters on their phones, but make no attempt to stop the demonstration. The protest then moves to Sikanderpur, where the procession takes an U-turn, with men shouting slogans with torsos sticking out of car windows, thumping the ground with sticks, startling commuters with their “Padmaavat dekhne mat jana, nahi to zinda nahi bachoge (Don’t go to watch Padmaavat, you won’t return alive)”, “Hall jala denge agar movie release kari (We’ll burn down the hall if the film is released)”, till they reach the parking lot of Leisure Valley. 
 
 At Leisure Valley car park, the group, which had swelled to 300, interrupt a cricket match. Three SHOs and two ACPs arrive with cops in riot gear. The cops diffuse tension of lathi-charge by asking the protesters to allow the cricket match to proceed. Meanwhile, five Sena representatives take a car, followed by two PCR vans, and head for the city’s malls — MGF, Sahara, MGF City Centre on MG Road, Mega Mall on Golf Course Road — to distribute pamphlets to multiplex staff. 
 
 The pamphlets, carrying a photo of Karni Sena leader Lokendra Singh Kalvi, proclaim that “the film Padmaavat, to release on Jan 25, harms sentiment of Hindus and Muslims, and will lead to communal riots and damage to property if released, so it shouldn’t be shown here, like in Gujarat and Faridabad.”
 
 Later, Inderjit Singh, the ACP of Sadar police station, denied the protesters had blocked traffic. “Traffic was moving slow because of the protesters, but it hadn’t completely stopped,” he said. “When we asked them to move from MG Road, they went to Leisure Valley,” he further said. When asked if they plan to take any action against Karni Sena members, he said, “We’re checking if they had taken permission for the rally.” He added so far the protesters had failed to produce any. 
 
 
