There was a nip in the air when   started pedalling towards Kalamassery from   in Kochi on a crisp August morning in 2015. Wary of vehicles zooming past, he kept close to the road’s shoulder, often taking a quick look over his shoulder for any reckless motorist.

 
  
 
 His concern soon gave to way to excitement as some other cyclists, apparently more confident that Tom, breezed past him. The youngster tried to catch up with them, but as beads of sweat trickled down his face, the cyclist realized that it was not an easy task.
 
 Tom, now a 32-year-old medical transcriptionist, knew that the stretch has been frequented by cyclists, some who have taken up biking on health grounds, others for the sheer thrill of it.
 
 Once the common short-distance mode of transport for a majority of Malayalis, the humble cycle was retired after the vehicle market witnessed an offensive foray of gearless scooters and 100cc motorbikes. Some retained their old ‘war horse’, and now, in cycling lingo, such bikes are revered as ‘beaters’ or ‘clunker bikes.’ “I was active in football, judo and wrestling during my school and college days. After college, I led a sedentary lifestyle that I felt would soon affect my health. Cycling didn’t require much effort, and hence I took it up,” Tom said.
 
 Health-conscious and thrillseeking people across cities, however, are not after such beaters, even as cycling has made a comeback. After leaving their motorcycles or cars behind, they—cutting across age and gender differenceshave taken up biking.
 
 “Cycling is an exercise which requires an all-body effort, like swimming, which makes it one of the most sought-after regime for all age groups. Gaining muscle strength and flexibility are the immediate benefits of cycling, followed by improved joint mobility, better cardiovascular fitness and overall burning of body fats,” said Dr Anika Sait, general physician.
 
 Cycling clubs have sprouted in all major cities of the state, and apparently their numbers are growing. The clubs now organize cycling marathons, in association with national and international clubs. Such marathons have become an instant hit among professional as well as amateur cyclists.
 
 “We have organized eight major cycling events called   during the past three years. The number of participants has shot up from some 40-45 to 175 in the latest ride. Apart from major events, cycle marathons are conducted every two-three months,” said Rajith Rathiyappan who heads To & Fro Bicycles Club in Kochi.
 
 According to, a member of   and a Kochi-based cycling coach, there is an increase in the number of youngsters keen on bicycles than motorbikes.
 
 “There is an annual increase of almost 200% in people participating in different kinds of cycling and sports events in the country. The number of professional and amateur cyclists here, too, has increased. In Kochi alone, there are 300 cyclists regularly participating in different events,” Jaison, who imparts training in mountain and plain cycling, said.
 
 The interest in cycling, positively, is not just a fad, but a concerted effort in including it as a part of lifestyle, due to health and fitness reasons.
 
 “Almost 40-50% of those buying bicycles now do so to incorporate cycling into their health and fitness regime. Doctors also recommend cycling as one of the best workouts. There is also an increase in doctors purchasing bicycles,” Gopal Shenoy, a bicycle showroom owner in Kochi, said, adding even senior citizens, too, have taken up cycling.
 
 “Any sports that involved speed and adventure used to interest me. I used to ski when I go abroad, which is not possible here. The next best option is cycling, and I’m a regular cyclist now,” 65-year-old Dr Shaji T George, said. Incidentally, the doctor recently completed a 1000-km event.
 
 Various adventure tourism initiatives have included cycling as part of their itinerary.
 
 Three years down the road and several cycling events later, Solvin Tom is now a pro. Besides having a healthier physique, he has visited places he had never been before — andboastsof a wider circleof friends.
 
 
