MADURAI: The city corporation on Friday took a key step towards streamlining street vendors and giving them an aesthetic makeover by holding a full-fledged election to the street vending committee. The exercise, a first-of-its-kind in  , was conbducted with all the trappings of an election held to legislative bodies. It was aimed at helping the street vendors — people who sell knickknacks, fruits, flowers and other sundries — get a proper representation on the city vending committee.

 The corporation building in the city was abuzz with thousands of people on Friday morning. Pamphlets and cards with the names and photographs of candidates were being circulated among them. As many as 5,448 vendors were to elect five representatives as one had been elected unopposed.
 
 Backed by the trade unions, there were 18 candidates in the fray, including four women. City health officer Dr V   was the returning officer for the elections which had a booth-level officer and booth agents too. Agents of the candidates were found outside the corporation building educating voters who were ignorant of the system. The elections were conducted with proper reservations for dalits and women among the candidates.
 
  in five colours were given to the voters who had to vote by ticking against the photograph and number of their choice. A model of the ballot paper was also pasted outside the polling booths. ``While the identity cards given to the vendors were their voter ID card for the election, some who did not have them were allowed to use their membership card of the association along with their Aadhaar cards. Those who exercised their franchise were marked with ink on their fingers.
 
 Madurai corporation commissioner   said that the election would go a long way in streamlining the street vendors, who were an important part of the community, and also regularising them. With the elections they would have three representatives on the city vendor committee. Soon, the corporation also planned to geo-tag the vendors to prevent their migration, and it would be ensured that their trade was given an aesthetic makeover as in foreign countries. This would help build the image of the city and also theirs, he said. The election started at 9 a.m and ended at 6 p.m with a voter turnout of nearly 35 per cent.  , a voter, said that every voter had to vote on five ballot papers, which took time. This resulted in the low turnout as many had closed their business and come hoping to get back on time. They returned when the process dragged on.
 
 
