It is not just   and Telugu Desam Party (TDP), even smaller NDA allies like Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP in Bihar and   Rajbhar’s Suheldeo Bhartiya Samaj Party in Uttar Pradesh are asserting themselves against BJP.

 SBSP president Rajbhar, who is a cabinet minister in the Yogi Aditya Nath government, has turned out to be major embarrassment for BJP with his public accusations that the saffron party was neglecting its allies and the Yogi government was corrupt.
 
 “The SBSP is not getting due honour in the BJP regime... It depends on BJP whether or not it wants an alliance with us. Like in the local body polls, if BJP does not forge an alliance with us, we will contest the   polls alone,” Rajbhar said at a recent rally.
 
 He alleged that there was more corruption under the BJP regime than under the previous SP and BSP governments. Though I am part of this government, this is not my government... We have an alliance with BJP,” he said.
 
 In Bihar, Rashtriya Lok Samata Party chief and Union minister Upendra Kushwaha is not comfortable with BJP ever since the latter formed an alliance government with JD (U). Once considered close to Bihar CM  , Kushwaha had formed RLSP in 2013 after a fall out with the JD(U) boss. He joined hands with BJP after the party split with Nitish. The revival of BJP-JD (U) coalition seems to have made him uncomfortable.
 
 Kushwaha’s party last week organised a human chain in Patna for reforms in the education sector. However, no NDA partner participated in the event. RJD leaders Shivanand Tiwary and Ramchandra Purve were present beside Kushwaha, hinting at the changing political equations.
 
 RLSP’s Bihar unit secretary general Satyanand Prasad Dangi said his party was firmly in the NDA but the quality of education was not being improved in Bihar. “Though we are concerned about the poor education quality, it is a social cause for us and not a political move. We are in the NDA and there are no talks with any other party,” Dangi said.
 
 With Lok Sabha polls due next year, keeping allies in good humour is proving to be a challenge for BJP. Shiv Sena has already announced that it will go it alone in 2019, although a section of the saffron leadership is still optimistic of a change of heart.
 
 TDP chief and Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu recently said the alliance was in danger. He is upset with criticism of his party by BJP leaders in the state. But BJP played down differences with allies as a leader said, “Parties have their own commitments to their electorate.”
 
 
