CHENNAI : A high-level team comprising officials from   and Kerala held talks in   on January 19 and discussed the contentious Mullaperiyar dam dispute, review of Parambikulam and Aliyar project and Neyyar disagreement over supplying water to Kanyakumari district. The meeting comes months after Kerala chief minister   and his TN counterpart   expressed keenness to hold bilateral talks to iron out differences on water disputes.

 The talks also touched upon the mega car parking project proposed by the Kerala government in the Periyar tiger reserve area over which TN moved the Supreme Court last year. The national green tribunal southern zone had earlier endorsed Kerala’s proposal.
 
 “The atmosphere was one of cooperation during the first level of talks and the meeting resolved to find solutions with both sides keeping an open mind,” a senior government official told TOI. The next round is set to resume in a fortnight and may involve chief secretaries in due course of time to settle the long-pending contentious issues being fought in courts. The court also recently directed that the two states hold talks on a civil suit filed by Tamil Nadu on the encroachments in the water spread area of Mullaperiyar dam. The storage was raised to 142ft in July 2014, after a Supreme Court order.
  
  
 The bilateral talks at the level of secretaries of water resources looked at the pending appeals of the Tamil Nadu government. They include taking up the remaining strengthening works to restore the water level of the dam to 152ft. This was recommended by the Central Water Commission and ordered by the Supreme Court in 2006 and later reiterated by the empowered committee and by the court in 2014. Some 23 trees should be felled to form an approach road to Baby dam for which Kerala is yet to give clearance. Restoration of power supply to the dam was one of the key demands of the state. Power supply was disconnected in the year 2000 citing electrocution of wild animals which came in contact with high tension lines. Since then, the dam is run through diesel generators, sources said.
 
 “The TN team also renewed its demand that Kerala release water in Neyyar river, which was stopped abruptly in 2004. During Friday’s talks, Kerala said it will consider all our requests,” an official said. The previous Jayalalithaa regime had dragged Kerala to the SC for not honouring the arrangement for supply of water to an ayacut of 9,200 acres in Vilavancode Taluk of Kanyakumari that was transferred to Tamil Nadu pursuant to reorganisation of states.
 
 
