In the latest episode of  ,   is happy seeing   getting uncomfortable and even calls her Mrs. Hooda. He then tells her that she has to become worthy for the mangalsutra and hands it over to her. Aditya and Zoya's client Virani has an age-old thinking and tells Aditya that he should not fulfill every demand of his wife. On the other hand, Zoya is confused and thinks that if she has to thank Aditya who did not force her to wear the mangalsutra or should she scold him for trying to make Mahi wear it. Aditya loses his calm and tells Zoya that she has double standards as she is okay with Mahi becoming his wife but is not okay with herself doing it.

 Zoya clarifies saying that she will not agree to this and will never play his wife. She rushes to the conference room and tells the Viranis the truth. She tells them that she is not Aditya's wife and everyone gets shocked. Then Zoya looks at her employees and remembers that her company is facing monetary issues. She then further tells them that she is not just Aditya's wife but also his business partner. Virani does not allow Zoya to talk and tells Aditya that a woman should not be allowed to speak. Later his sons ask him to give Zosh a chance and he agrees to the deal.
 
 But he warns them and tells them that if there is any mistake then he would cancel their contract with the company. As they leave he tells Zoya to wear the mangalsutra. On the other hand, Harshvardhan Hooda sees   sleeping and goes to wake him up and sees  's diary. He then thinks that it was Arjun who stole the diary away from his room and then tells his wife Anjana to not let anyone come to his study. 
 
 Mr Hooda finds some of the pages torn from the diary and then starts getting worried about the secret that he has been keeping away from the family. In the office, the Virani sons make the presentation and Mahi keeps staring at Aditya. Virani's daguther-in-law Sagarika notices this and starts hating her. She then congratulates Zoya and tells her that she has a supportive husband Aditya in her life.
 
 
