CHENNAI: Burglars escaped with 32kg of gold jewellery worth around ?9.28 crore from a Bank of India branch in  , around 50km from here, on Sunday night.

 
 The police on Monday said the suspects used duplicate keys to enter the bank. Officials discovered the theft when they arrived to open the branch on Monday after the weekend holiday.
 
 
 Investigators said a bank employee found the shutter locks open when he arrived at 10am. The burglars had opened and cleaned out at least one large locker, in which the bank placed customers’ jewellery. Investigators, who suspect an insider’s hand, have detained eight employees for questioning. They said the burglars had keys to all the rooms in the branch and to the locker that they opened.
 
 That would not have been possible without the help of someone in the bank, an investigating officer said.
 
 “We are studying footage from the bank’s surveillance system to see if anyone else was involved,” the officer said.
 
 The branch is on the first floor of a three-storey building, above a department store, on Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Tiruvallur.
 
 
 
 
 A finance company operates from the second floor.
 
 “Informed about the theft, the branch manager,  , arrived at the scene and found that 32kg of gold jewellery was missing from the safety locker,” the officer said. “He filed a police complaint.”
 
 Tiruvallur superintendent of police M  , who visited the spot, said the burglars had not touched cash lockers in the bank.
 
 “The gang left ?24 lakh untouched,” the SP said. “The bank is equipped with seven   cameras and a burglar alarm system.”
 
 “We have collected CCTV camera footage from the department store and the finance company to identify the culprits,” he said, adding that the bank had only one security guard who was on the ground floor of the building when the burglars struck.
 
 News of the theft spread quickly and, within hours, hundreds of anxious customers thronged the bank.
 
 “I pledged my jewellery for my child’s education. My daughter’s wedding is also approaching, next month,” said  , one of the customers who had gathered outside the bank. “I am helpless now.”
 
 Forensic experts gathered fingerprints from the crime scene; a police dog that investigators pressed into service failed to pick up a trail.
 
 Bank of India area manager   told reporters that the burglars had taken insured jewellery. “We will take all action required to help customers,” he said.
 
