It is December 6. Three days after a rumbustious football derby between   and   had stopped traffic in Kolkata, the city’s busiest thoroughfares are again choked. Marking the 25th anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition,   chief minister Mamata Banerjee has called a rally at the Maidan and it is a city in a strange overdrive, caught between a new generation that doesn’t seem to get it and an entire community that cannot forget it.

 
 Yet, nearby at the Mohammedan Sporting Club tent, it’s an oasis of indifferent silence. Yes, club officials may be at Didi’s rally but you don’t need to ask to know it’s just a token presence. Inside the premises, a few men have stopped by to offer afternoon prayers. A large orange-plumed rooster struts about in the sparse lawns – perhaps the only swag you will see all day.
 
 Not far, a row of team shirts, in the club’s iconic black-chest white-sleeve motif, are drying in the mild winter sun. It was once among the most unmistakable colours in Indian sport. The upturned numbers on the shirt backs, in a sense, signify the current predicament of a once-imperious 126-year-old club. Here is an institution, founded in 1891, that had once been one of the symbols of Muslim identity, a rallying point through the tumultuous events of Independence, and the subsequent search for the self and status in an altered post-Partition landscape.
 
 “In the eyes of the world, the Indian Muslim ethos was identified through three broad symbols: the Aligarh Muslim University, Darul Uloom Deoband and Mohammedan Sporting,” says Zafar Ali Khan, a veteran journalist and commentator and devoted Mohammedan Sporting chronicler. But how much meaning does that symbol hold today? On the national stage, the image of the club, now a middling team in the I-League Second Division, has taken a beating with both audiences and funds shrinking.
 
 With once the greatest support base across the country, Mohammedan Sporting was perhaps the first pan-Indian sporting idea. Indian football’s most travelled team, it drew crowds from the Muslim community wherever they played. Old-timers speak of the “ek aandhi jaise” outpouring of support for the club in Delhi and Bombay. In the deeply intertwined Calcutta maidan matrix, while Mohun Bagan proudly wore its upper-class, aristocratic makeup as a badge, and East Bengal represented a fierce refugees’ ethos, the non-Hindu, non-Bengali communities in the diverse city chose to be associated with the third club in town. Kolkata’s Chinese community, for instance, has always famously chosen to identify with Mohammendan Sporting. It is this same idea that the club is struggling to keep afloat today.
 
 That it was the pioneer in recruiting players from across the country gave it a greater air of inclusivity. Today, as they painstakingly rebuild through the age-group and junior leagues playing in the suburbs of Kamalgazi, it is perhaps symbolic of their subaltern roots that their brightest hope is 17-year-old ‘Lucky’, or Debraj Rakhit, a tiny wily playmaker who returns to his painting and white-washing duties when not training at the club academy.
 
 “Nearly half of players in the clubs in Bengal’s interiors are either Muslims or tribals,” says former India captain Bhaskar Ganguly, the man who led the eight-player exodus from East Bengal in 1981. 
 
 During their heydays, Mohammedan Sporting even employed the services of stars from Pakistan (Usman Jaan and Jamaal Khan), before a government ban in the 1960s put an end to that. “They were the first to take players from all over India, right from the Frontier Province down to Kerala,” remembers Ashok Mitra. Frail and touching 90, the economist and veteran politician, can still reel off names (with their playing positions) of the crack Mohammedan Sporting teams of the 1930s that was the first Indian team to win the Calcutta League, then largely accepted as the national championship. “Like a thunderbolt, they arrived on the scene,” says Mitra, before he lapses into a remorseful dismissal of the club’s current standing.
 
 The club that mainly kept going on members’ contributions and the huge gate-money receipts it helped raise, is today crippled with a fund crunch. Even a season’s budget of Rs 1 to 2 crore is hard to cobble up. “We were players, recruiters and sponsor-finders all rolled into one,” remembers Shabbir Ali, a former Mohammedan and India great. Today, at a time where there is rising commercialization in the Indian game, that Mohammedan Sporting continues to be neglected, points perhaps, to a larger reluctance to be seen alongside a Muslim institution.
 
 Not many among the Muslim elite too are keen to be associated with a football club that bears a Muslim name. Club insiders talk of a Bengal tea and tobacco giant who contributes to the club but will not be openly attached to it. That hesitancy extends to other business communities as well. Apparently, an automotive giant, which underwrites most of Indian sport today, was on the brink of signing a lucrative deal with Sporting in the late 1980s, but rescinded after the company patriarch felt an association with the club could hurt their growing brand.
 
 Even Mamata’s outside interest in the club is seen as a tool for minority appeasement. “Vote bank hai, isliye welfare hai,” says Mohd Salahuddin, a 56-year-old green shutter manufacturer.
 
 However, Mohammedan Sporting can still draw in the crowds and whip up the passion, but mainly in subaltern India – the hawkers and the puchkawala as Zafar describes them - not as the national giant it once was. “Recently, we played a small tournament in Mau, some 100 km north of Banaras. Over 30,000 people turned up on hearing Mohammedan Sporting had come,” says Bilal Ahmed Khan, longtime club administrator.
 
 The fervor is a shadow of the past when it spawned imitations in Dhaka, Chittagong, and Delhi. Three clubs – City, Moghals and Indian Nationals – in the capital owe their DNA to it.  , a 74-year-old from old Delhi, remembers well the pull of the club. “It was a DCM Trophy match in 1960 against East Bengal at the Dilli Gate ground (now Ambedkar Stadium), and an infringement led to an East Bengal goal. The crowd went furious, play was stopped. Remember, Mohammedans was a complete Muslim team then. Prime Minister Nehru was in attendance and it was getting ugly. Noted Urdu poet of the time, Kunwar Mohinder Singh Bedi ‘Sahar’, had to grab the mic and recite a few couplets to calm the crowds, but it gave you a sense of the craze for Mohammedan Sporting in Delhi.”
 
 Mohammedan Sporting’s status altered with the rise of the Left in Bengal in the 1970s, symbolized by East Bengal’s domineering charge. It may have contributed in edging out Mohammedan as a new narrative replaced the earlier one on the Maidan. “Mohammedan Sporting was a dream which came true for the Muslims for at least a decade,” says Ashok Mitra, “The Partition comes and soon it was just another ordinary club.”
 
 At the turn of the century, even as the appeal of the Big Three became a narrow, Kolkata-specific phenomenon, football was beginning to wear a more professional outlook. In this lop-sided progress, while Bagan and East Bengal managed to be counted among Indian football’s elite, Mohammedan Sporting were further relegated to an also-ran.
 
 To many, the current state of Mohammedan Sporting is symptomatic of the state of the Indian Muslims today, as they grapple with a lack of leadership and feel increasingly politically irrelevant. “Where is the Muslim leadership today?” laments Mitra.
 
 The way out – or back -- says Prof Mohd Suleiman Khurshid, a former club president, is for the current administration – and by extension, the community leaders -- to understand that for any revival to take place, they have to go back to the masses. “To develop the club’s potential once again, address its problems. You will be addressing the larger problems of the community as well,” says Khurshid.
 
 Mohd Dawood, 62, a leather trader in Kolkata, speaks of a larger transformation that has occurred, when he says, “The father carrying his kid on the shoulder into the stands at the maidan spoke of continuity, a steady way of life. It was true of Mohammedan Sporting, it was true of our existence and our identity.”
 
 “Lekin woh zamaana toh ab beet gaya. Bees saal sey team haar hi rahi hai. Aur saath mein hum log bhi…,” he sighs.
 
