Thirty-two-year-old Krithi Bettadh stepped into the spotlight and asked, "Who am I?'' It is a poignant moment in the play. The hushed silence in the auditorium broke when someone in the audience shouted, "Thindi pothi (greedy pig).'' A shocked Bettadh continued with her performance but the taunt stayed with her. "Here I was baring my soul on stage, raising questions of identity and all that the person could see was my size,'' she says.

 Bettadh is a plus-size actor who has faced the brunt of fat-shaming all her life. So when she got a call to join Bengaluru-based  , her initial reaction was skepticism. "I was trying to lose weight when I was asked if I would like to join this theatre group for plus-size actors. I was excited but not convinced," she says.
 
 The group was started by  , 40, in May last year. Rao, a plus-size actor herself, found that while she was always praised for her acting prowess, she would be given roles meant for older women (mother-in-law, maid) or comic relief (fat friend, sister), never the lead. "I was good enough to coach the lead who was a pretty, slim girl, but never good enough to play the part myself,'' she says. Frustrated with what she describes as the "Disneyfication of characters'' she decided to start her own company.
 
 The   was born but it wasn't a spectacular start. Initially, people thought it was a place that would teach actors how to lose weight, recalls Rao. So she drew up a list of actors who she thought fit the bill and made calls. Many found it offensive that they had been considered for a "fat theatre group'', others were curious. In July, the ensemble began its workshops with 15 skeptical people. "Once we shared our experiences, it made me realise that I was not alone in my struggles. It was like therapy,'' Bettadh says. 
 
 The group recently made its debut with a series of performances of  's   play, 'Hayavadana' in March-April. Called 'Head 2 Head', their adaptation is based on the experiences of being a plus-size person in today's world. Several questions raised in the play come from personal experiences. Like the pressure to be slim to get a job or a meaty part in a play or to get married. "Casting directors would say you're a beautiful actor. We will get back to you with a suitable role. But that call would never come,'' Bettadh says.
 
 Every actor has a familiar story of being fat-shamed by colleagues, friends, family and strangers, getting unsolicited advice on how to lose weight, and being stared and sniggered at. However, Rao says the reason for starting the company or staging the plays was never accusatory but to begin a conversation on the subject.
 
 TBFC's future plan is to conduct workshops for children to raise awareness against the culture of fat being equal to lazy and ugly, and promote greater acceptance of different body types. With more performances on the anvil, this ensemble has proved that size is no bar.
 
