TRICHY: The Central Water Commission ( ) has installed a satellite-based instrument called Telemetry to monitor   at the Grand Anaicut (Kallanai) reservoir, particularly during monsoon.

 It is used to monitor all the reservoirs in the country simultaneously. With the help of the instrument, rainfall and water level of the reservoirs is measured. CWC has been installing the instrument at all major reservoirs including Grand Anaicut in   which comes under Cauvery basin and some other reservoirs in   basin also, officials from the commission said. 
 
 Telemetry is developed by a private agency. The very purpose of installing the device is managing flood, said the officials. “Accurate and timely flood forecasts and advance warning can provide valuable time to the people and to revenue authorities in taking preventive measures like evacuation, relief and rehabilitation measures. It can help in preparedness for flood fighting by the concerned authorities, which would mitigate any loss caused by flood,” officials stated.
 
 Under National Hydrology Project, the scheme had already been implemented in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and   in 1990s. Now, the installation process is on in Tamil Nadu.
 
 At one point all the reservoir would be interlinked with these data, which can be controlled and monitored by the officials working at the control rooms functioning from Chennai and Bangalore. The device would start collecting data once all the reservoirs are interlinked with the control room, they added. In future, even public can view all the details available online, said the officials. As everyone would be enabled to view the forecast, NDRF’s work would also be simplified, as they take necessary and swift action during a calamity. State agencies and district administrations can take appropriate steps to avert any untoward incidents caused due to flood, officials said. 
 
 CWC is entrusted with the general responsibilities of initiating, coordinating and consultation with the state governments concerned about the schemes for control, conservation and utilization of water resources throughout the country for the purpose of flood control, irrigation, navigation, drinking water supply and water power development.
 
 
