If you have a garden and a library, you have everything,” said Roman politician Marcus Tullius Cicero. In this day and age of social networking platforms and smartphones, libraries surprisingly have still maintained that old-world charm. As we celebrate  , we ask college students about what lures them to the storehouse of knowledge and imagination.

 
 
 
 There is something intriguing about the library that keeps bringing me back to the place. It is so calm that when I am there, I feel more settled and it feels like home. I love the smell of the books, both old and new, and their texture, which might be rough, grainy and soft. For me, there is always a favourite spot, where I am comfortable reading. Whenever I feel low, I make it a point to go there and contemplate. My relationship with books has in turn also brought me closer to the librarian in college. As soon as I complete reading a book, I feel that there is an emptiness inside. Soon, there is a craving for finding something else that would be suitable for an altogether different mood.
 
 
 
 Despite the fact that a lot of e-books are available today that can be viewed on phones, reading a paperback provides an altogether different experience for me. The library exposes one to the wide horizons of knowledge, through books of various fields. To be seated amid thousands of books and be transposed to the literary world is a serene feeling. No matter how technologically advanced we are, one’s emotions and feelings can only be best expressed through the written word. Also, you can instantly convey ideas that originate in one’s mind to another in a library. Apart from the college library, I often go to public libraries, and each time the date of returning a book nears, there is an ache inside that makes it difficult to do away with the book that gave me company, even if only for a few days.
 
 
 The library in our college is open till 8 pm. While the other students make use of their extra time to find study materials for reference, I use the library to traverse the untrodden path beyond my academic course. While I often update myself about the current affairs from magazines, the precious works of Vaikkom Muhammad Basheer is something that I relish. In an age when most people of my age while away time on their smartphones and spend lesser time reading, I believe we must delve deep into these works. I am always in a quest to find experimental books of different genres. The sense of touch is the most effective when it comes to books, and one needs to go to a library for that. There are those rare moments when the tranquil libraries transpose us to the vibrant universe of characters and personalities.
 
 
 
 
 
 Libraries and books have become synonymous with all things emotional, and there is nothing in the world that can beat it in this regard. It is not only the aesthetic aspect that I like but the ambit of opportunities that it gives a person to explore. The number of books in a library is so vast that I have seen many ruminating as to which one to lay their hands on. Given that I am a hosteller and there is no major source of entertainment, I try to spend my time qualitatively by mostly being in the library and on those days I am not, I indulge myself by surfing the Internet. My friends in college call me a geek for going to the library, but it is because perhaps my father has been a voracious reader that I am more inclined towards libraries and books. Also, people who come to library often forge a relationship and become a community. Veteran writer MT Vasudevan Nair has been my favourite author of them all.
 
 
 
 
 
