GURUGRAM: While on one hand, chief minister Manohar Lal   has been desperately trying to position the city as the next Silicon Valley, and a hub of industry, finance minister   on Friday dodged questions on the state government’s   in Gurugram over the past three and a half years. 

 
 Asked by TOI, Capt Abhimanyu could not come up with numbers and said he did not want to ‘guesstimate’. He also didn’t share any figures vis-à-vis Gurugram’s contribution towards the state’s GDP and revenue.
 
 An example of the government’s opacity is the amount of total investments committed during the Happening Haryana Global Investors Summit in 2016. 
 
 The state government had claimed it had signed MoUs worth Rs 6.41 lakh crore during the summit. However, according to sources in the Haryana State Industry and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC), barely any of these investments have been realised.
 
 An HSIIDC official added that high land prices in the state were putting off investors from committing money. Additionally, there has been no word on funding from the Japanese International Cooperation Agency, or for the ambitious Global City Project.
 
 The delay in these investments has cost the city much in terms of infrastructure and employment opportunities, and caused anger among residents. 
 
 Abhimanyu, however, reiterated Khattar’s statement about making Gurugram the ‘smartest city’. “As far as the development of Gurugram is concerned, we will not let shortage of funds be an issue,” he said at a press conference in the city on Friday.
 
 The finance minister also said the people of Haryana had significantly invested towards the development of Gurugram and the city needs to contribute towards the development of the state. He also said of the Rs 1,000-crore revenue that the state had earned in the last couple of months from real estate developers and builders, the share of Gurugram stood at Rs 300 crore. 
 
 Seeking credit, local MP and Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh said the central government has played an important role in the work carried out on Gurugram’s roads, including the construction of flyovers and underpasses at Rajiv Chowk, Signature Towers, Iffco Chowk and near Medanta hospital. The central government has funded these projects through the National Highways Authority of India. “I was supposed to get funds for the development of these projects from the Gurugram municipal corporation,” Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had said during a TOI town hall in April.
 
 Inderjit, speaking at another event, pointed out that Gurugram has been generating the highest revenue (65%) in the last decade, and yet the longstanding demand for a Gurgaon development authority was fulfilled only recently after sustained pressure from the media.
 
 
