AMRITSAR: With an aim to promoting Sikh identity, showcasing Sikhs’ contribution in Thai economy and spreading teachings of Sikh Gurus, the Young Thai Sikh Association (YTSA) held the 24th Thai Sikh Run in Bangkok on Sunday.

 Member of the Young Thai Sikh Association Charanjit Singh Kalra, alias  , told TOI after the completion of the race on Sunday that had as many as 3,500 participants, including over 700  , ranging from three to eighty years participated in the race. There were three categories of race of 5,10 and 21 km, which started from   (little India) up to   and back.
 
 He said that Sikhs paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sahib, Phaurat, before beginning of the run, which was held under the aegis of Sri Singh Sabha, the central organization of Sikhs in Thailand. Chan said there were around 70,000 Sikhs in Thailand with 80% concentration in Bangkok and rest were scattered in cities like Pattaya , Phuket , Hatyai, Ubo, Udorn, Pattani, Chang Mi and Chiang Rai. Over 12 Sikh-owned corporate houses generously donated on the occasion, the proceedings of which would go to his majesty, the King, for certain projects.
 
 TOI also talked to a couple of participants of Thai Sikh Run over phone who were of the view that their efforts would yield positive results in making Sikh identity recognizable in the world. A resident of Pattaya, Sunee Sakchiraphong, said that she travelled overnight to reach Bangkok to participate in the Thai Sikh Run. She said she had been participating in many marathons over the past few years. “This is for the first time that I am participating in the Thai Sikh Run and I am very excited and thrilled to be with the vibrant Indians and Thai runners, who have come from around the country to participate in the event.”
 
 Another participant Romy Sachdev said that she had earlier participated in the run about 12 years ago. Romy said she participated in the event, along with her husband and two kids. “We completed 5km but next time we will cover more,” she said.
 
 
