KOLKATA:   is set to throw open the gates of its second campus at   in the coming academic session in July and plans to inaugurate a third campus, Himalayan Centre in Kurseong, in 2020. The governing board of the university also gave the goahead for the introduction of post-masters and research-oriented programmes at the Rajarhat campus, which will be the first in Bengal to offer seven unique schools of study, boosting interdisciplinary courses.

 The board also approved appointments in 3 teaching posts.
  
  
 The decisions were taken at the governing body meeting on Tuesday, attended by Presidency mentor group chairman Sugato Bose. The six schools will be School of Informatics, with special emphasis on cyber security and criminology, School of Biotechnology,  , School of Public Policy, School of Earth Science, School of Value Science and  . The   will have super-computing facilities so that interdisciplinary subjects, such as astrophysics, biotechnology, climate change and other natural sciences and maths, can be studied together for research. “Specialization will be offered in cyber security and criminology,” said vicechancellor Anuradha Lohia.
 
 The School of Astrophysics will have a 14-inch teaching and training telescope to be used by UG and PG students for their research. “We look to introduce certificate courses, diplomas, post-MSc courses,” she said.
 
 Earth sciences will be a collaboration among geological sciences, geography and statistics to focus on environmental issues and risk of disaster management. “Biotechnology School will focus on training manpower post-MSc, who will be industry ready. Initially, we will focus on crop biotechnology, where superior seeds can be generated using molecular breeding,” the VC said.
 
 The School of Comparative Literature will focus on literature of regional languages of India, mostly of southern states and the Northeast. The seventh school, that of value studies will teach palliative care for the elderly, with sociological and philosophical basis.
 
 Lohia pointed out the Rajarhat campus will have two 14-storey towers to house academic blocks. “Nothing is final yet, but we are toying with the idea of two academic towers. We have to make best use of the 10 acre prime land there,” she said.
 
 
