BIJNOR: In a heart rending incident, the   who was being taken to a hospital in a critical condition in an ambulance that got stuck in the protests on Monday lifted his father on his shoulders and started running desperately towards the medical facility which was located just over a kilometer away. 

 But stuck in the midst of a frenzied agitation in the middle of a busy road, he couldn't move fast enough. When he finally reached the hospital, the doctors pronounced the old man dead. 
 
 The incident was reported from  , where 32-year-old Raghuwar Singh was told by doctors at the district hospital to take his ailing father Lokka Singh either to a private medical facility or a bigger hospital in  . Since Lokka was breathless and complaining of unbearable pain in his stomach, Raghuwar decided to go for the first option.
 
 "He was a chronic asthmatic. When his condition deteriorated on Sunday night, we took him to the district hospital. The doctors examined him and started his treatment, but there was no improvement in his condition. Around 11.45am on Monday, they told us to take him to   or to a private hospital here. I did not have the time or money to transport him to Meerut, so we put him in an ambulance to go to a private hospital," Raghuwar, who does odd jobs to eke out a living in Baruki village, Bijnor, told TOI.
 
 They were heading towards Shashtri Chowk, which is just over a kilometer away from the district hospital, when the ambulance got stuck in a traffic jam at Judgi crossing. "There were hundreds of protesters shouting slogans. There was chaos all around... I pleaded with them, shouted at the top of my voice, but none of them moved. Inside the ambulance I could see my father dying and didn't know what to do. I wanted to save his life so I lifted him on my shoulder and began running," Raghuwar said, bursting into tears.
 
 They had covered half a km in the ambulance and Raghuwar had to travel another 600 meters or so to reach the hospital. 
 
 "It took me more than an hour to cover that distance," he lamented. Vimala Devi, the deceased man's wife, said, "My husband would have been alive had the agitators allowed the ambulance to pass. This agitation has destroyed our entire family."
 
 
