Citizens, activists and citizen-action groups are up in arms against the proposed amendment to the Tree Preservation Act of 1976 by the state government, which will allow authorities to cut trees without anyone questioning them, not just in Bengaluru, but across the state.

 
 
 Activists say that if the act is amended, it is a matter of grave concern. “The amendment to the   Preservation of Trees Act, 1976, will denotify 50 species from the protected list that will make way for collective ecological destruction. According to studies, we need eight trees for each person. In Bengaluru, we have lost more than 70% tree cover and have just one tree for eight people. Bengaluru is under threat with this amendment,” says  , designer, theatre artiste and co-founder of  .
 Similarly,  , member of Citizens for Bengaluru, says that if the amendment is introduced it will affect the city to a degree that is beyond imagination. “If the trees are cut, the green cover is depleted, which affects the rain and the water cycle. Authorities say that the timber from the trees will benefit farmers, but this doesn’t apply to the city since we don’t have farmers here,” says Srinivas.
 
 
 
 Ever since the news of the amendment spread, citizens have been trying their best to create awareness about the repercussions this will have on the city. “One of the main reasons a lot of people love the city is because of the weather and the greenery. The green cover is a characteristic of Bengaluru, which many of us relate to. If we give up on this, it would mean we are giving up on the city,” says Srinivas.
 Deepti, on the other hand, says that the trees in Bengaluru have an emotional connect with the people here. “These trees are a part of our living heritage, providing shade, beauty, rain and relief to our everyday life and oxygen, too. When we destroy trees, we kill ourselves. It is the need of the hour for us as citizens of this planet to protect our ecological living heritage,” adds Deepti.
 
 
 
 Citizens for Bengaluru, along with Heritage Beku, have already started an online petition to create awareness about the issue, urging people to sign it. #KillBill GoK KTPA, on the other hand, is already doing the rounds on the internet. In addition to this, activists are now planning to take up the issue with authorities. “I urge everyone to call MLAs and ask them to vote against the amendment. We are also speaking to MLAs from different parties urging them to vote down the amendment. This is a very emotional issue for us and we are not going to give up easily,” says Srinivas.
 Deepti, meanwhile, says that the next plan of action will be to address the issue logically and with reason. “Development is necessary, but it has to be inclusive with our environment. Water, air and trees are also a part of our lives. When we pollute water bodies and chop our trees, we lead ourselves to a slow self-destruction,” she sums up.
 
