PATNA: Rohit Raj of DAV Public School-Khagaul, who scored 99.2% in   Class X examinations, has emerged as the state topper.

 Rohit scored 100 in social science and 99 each in mathematics, science, English and Sanskrit. Son of Sanjay Kumar (deputy manager of NHPC, Himachal Pradesh) and homemaker Anuradhha Kumari, Rohit wants to become a cardiac surgeon. “I want to be a doctor because I like biology and I want to be a lifesaver. Instead of studying for several hours during exams, I studied for a limited time and prepared a time table at the beginning of the session for self-study. The only thing that motivates and helps me to focus on my studies is Sanskrit shlokas. I used to recite shlokas during my free time. I have memorised some of them,” he said.
 
 With 99%, Dr D Ram DAV Public School student Shivam Raj is the second topper from Bihar. He scored 100 each in science, mathematics and Sanskrit, 99 in social science and 96 in English. The boy aspires to work in a big company. “First, I want to crack IIT-JEE exam. I have already taken admission in a coaching institute in Patna to prepare for the exam,” he said. Shivam’s father Satish Prasad Singh is a clerk at Patna Collectorate and mother Sushma Kumari is a teacher at a private school in Patna.
 
 Manas Choudhary of Loyola High School has scored 98.8%, including perfect 100 in English and science, 99 each in mathematics and social science and 96 in Hindi. “During exam time, I had dedicated maximum hours in study and revised each topic several times,” he said.
 
 Unlike other kids, Manas wants to pursue his career in teaching. “I think teaching is the most interesting profession because it gives opportunity to interact with young minds and to know their views. I’m very much inspired by one of my schoolteachers, Asit Kumar Das, who taught physics in our school. I love the way he taught,” said Manas, whose father Indra Bhushan Choudhary is senior divisional account officer in state road construction department and mother Pinki Choudhary a homemaker.
 
 
