BHOPAL: Machines, goods and raw material worth around Rs 150 crore were reduced to ashes when a massive fire engulfed the   (NTC) mill in Chandbad area of the city on Saturday midnight.

 With flames getting out of control, Army personnel were called in from the 3 EME centre. Fire tenders and foam spraying machines of the municipal corporation, BHEL, Army and municipal bodies of nearby cities battled the whole night to douse the flames.
 
 
  
 
 To make matters worse, fire extinguishers at the mill were not working and the shutters were jammed. This made the task of firemen all the more difficult as they lost precious time in cutting through and opening the shutters so that fire tenders could get access to the affected area.
 
 The   is the second such major incident in the city in the past two months. Earlier on December 18, more than 100 shops and goods worth over Rs 150 crore were gutted in a blaze at the congested trading hub of Bairagarh township.
 
 The fire started in the NTC mill’s second unit, which was set up in 2013. The BMC fire department employees said at around 2.30 am, the fire brigade received a call about the blaze at the textile unit.
 
 Initially, a few fire tenders were rushed, but as the blaze spread to other parts, more fire tenders from the city and nearby towns of Mandideep and Sehore, apart from fire tenders and foam spraying machines from BHEL and Army were pressed into service.
 
 Around 50 Army personnel along with workers from other agencies were involved in fighting the fire.
 
 “It took about seven hours for around 40 fire tenders to control the flames, but by then the entire unit was gutted”, BMC fire officer Sajid Khan said.
 
 Around 350 workers were in the night shift at the time of incident. Luckily, there was no report of any casualty or serious injuries.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Unconfirmed reports suggested that one person was injured. A case in this regard was later registered at Bajaria police station of the city.
 
 Police said there were reports of negligence on part of the mill authorities that led to such a major incident. “The water pipeline in the mill lacked pressure due to which the situation went out of control. Mill workers alleged that there was sparking in a weighing machine for the past few days, but the officials ignored it,” the police added.
 
 The exact amount of loss and the cause of fire are still not clear. The incident led to tension in the area with mill workers fearing for their future, as their only source was livelihood went up in flames. The local MLA assured all help to the affected families. The area near the mill was evacuated to avoid any loss of life. The flames were doused by Sunday morning, but the smoke kept billowing from the remains till the evening hours. The workers said the fire spread quickly after coming in contact with cotton and synthetic yarn at the mill.
 
 NTC general manager Ajay Kumar Dixit told mediapersons that the fire broke out in one of the units and the staff were working there. “One unit of the textile mill has been destroyed in the fire, while the second unit and the godown are safe. We will assess the loss of property. The exact cause of the fire would be known after an inquiry," he said.
 
 Police said the fire started in new unit of the mill that was set up in 2013. “Synthetic cloth is made at the unit. Short circuit may be the cause of the incident. The blaze started at around 2.30 am when 100 workers were doing the night shift,” cops added. The unit that was gutted had machines worth crores, all brought from Germany and other places. On spotting the flames in the night the workers and local residents tried to douse them first, but when the situation went totally out of control they called the firemen.
 
 The workers tried to control the flames with water from the mill’s tank, but to their misery there was no pressure in the pipeline due to leaks. After the overnight operation, the inferno was brought under control at 8.30 am on Sunday, power supply to the area was suspended and people were moved to safer places as a precautionary measure.
 
 Local MLA and minister of state for Bhopal gas tragedy relief and rehabilitation Vishvas Sarang also reached the spot in the morning and assured all help to the affected people. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Ajay Singh demanded a probe to ascertain the exact cause of fire.
 
 
