Tumour is swelling of a part of the body, generally without  , caused by an abnormal growth of tissue, whether it may be cancerous or non-cancerous. Tumours in the heart are rare, but spotting them early is important. Heart tumours are growths in the heart muscle or its nearby structures. They are divided into benign (non-cancerous) and malignant (cancerous) tumours. 

 Non-cancerous   while still relatively rare, are much more common than cancerous heart tumours. They are called benign because they don’t spread to other areas, but can still grow large and in some cases block part of the heart or affect its structure, which can make the tumour difficult to extract. 
 
 Symptoms depend on the location, size and type of the tumour. Some tumours cause no symptoms. Few of them may cause sweating, high temperature, shortness of breath, dizziness, chest pain, palpitations or general fatigue. A malignant heart tumour can affect the heart in many ways and may cause symptoms relating to obstruction of blood flow in the heart or lead to a collection of fluid around the outer layer of the heart. This can lead to breathlessness, arrhythmias, blackouts and sometimes sudden death.
 
 With any tumour, the earlier it is diagnosed the more likely it is that it can be removed and cured. Some benign tumours do not require treatment, but if they cause symptoms, they are generally removed through open heart surgery. For some tumours such as myxomas, the success rate is very high. For malignant tumours, medication, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery could all be considered. Surgery can be more complicated, because as much of the tumour as possible needs to be removed and heart tissue may need to be reconstructed. In a few of the most severe cases, nothing can be done. 
 
 Tumours are often detected by echocardiograms and CT scans, and the same tests are used to check on patients after they have had treatment. MRI scans are increasingly used to differentiate between the different types of tumour. So it is better to get diagnosed earlier for better outcome.
 
 
 
 
 
