AMRITSAR: Following intelligence reports that the cross-border terrorist outfits are preparing to carry out a terror attack in Punjab ahead or during the Republic Day, the Border Security Force (BSF), border zone police and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) have made elaborate arrangements. The security agencies are on alert along the international border with Pakistan and in the border cities and towns, especially those having sensitive installations with an aim to avoid a Pathankot Airforce base-like terror attack, which had embarrassed the establishment here.

 The security paraphernalia here is faced with both the conventional as well as sub-conventional threats from across the border. While it is equipped, experienced and prepared to thwart conventional threats, the sub-conventional threats, including aerial attacks is what concerns most to the security personals.
 
 According to sources, different branches of security establishment have already activated their intelligence units to gather input from credible sources, especially in the border villages where terrorists could find a save heaven to hide before striking at their target.
 
 “Security of Amritsar’s hypersensitive international airport, three venues of beating the retreat ceremony in Punjab, Ranjit Sagar Dam and defense establishments are one among the most important sensitive installations,” said intelligence sources.
 
 BSF IG ( )   told TOI on Thursday, “We get such possible terror threat warnings before the Republic Day and there is always a possibility of the same so we have to be careful.” He said that BSF had taken all the required measures and at a few sensitive points they had done the redeployment besides keeping coordination with various sister security agencies.
 
 When asked about the threat of attack on Attari, Hussaniwala and Sadqui, the three venues of beating the retreat ceremony, he replied “Wherever there is crowd, there is a threat.” He added that it was not only BSF but other intelligence agencies were also on alert on border.
 
 He said the BSF had also taken up the security issue with  . “There had been an incident of fidayeen attack on their side also, so they are also careful that way and are on alert,” said Goyal
 
 “On such occasions, general precaution comes from the security branch, all persons have been put on alert, all the functions are taken care of,” said border zone IG of Punjab Police S S Parmar. However, he said, border zone police couldn’t be segregated from the other areas since the threat perception was same in border zone as well as other places. “We are taking care of all the security aspects,” said Parmar.
 
 CISF commandant   said that in wake of terror alerts, CISF had augmented its standard operating procedures and have increased the layers of security and its deployment at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Das International airport.
 
 
