LONDON/LUCKNOW:   deputy chief minister   and his delegation had to evacuate their central London hotel on Tuesday when a dangerous gas leak occurred next to the building.

 Dinesh Sharma and his delegation, alongside education ministers from   and Tamil Nadu, were in London for the annual Education World Forum 2018, where leaders from across the world debate a future education policy. They were to attend the Bett Show 2018, which explores the role IT can play in education.
 
 According to reports, Sharma was woken up by the fire alarm and loud banging on the door of his hotel at 2.45am on Monday night. At first he thought it was a drill, but then as a result of the banging, he rushed out in his bed clothes without bothering to put shoes on and started looking for the lift. It was not working so then he went to find the stairs.
 
 Despite having a sprained ankle he made it down several floors to the lobby where he was handed hotel slippers and then fled outside in the freezing cold where he joined all the other hotel guests.
 
 “I came to London to participate in a function on reforms in education organised by   under the aegis of The Education World Forum. I was staying at Amba hotel, Charing Cross along with 91 other educationalists when at 3 am, there was a gas leak. We are safe,” Sharma tweeted around 3pm IST.
 
 Sharma continued, “Police took control of the entire area. As many as 1,500 people were evacuated. Train and road route is closed. We first came to Cornfia hotel and then with the help of Indian ambassador and British Council, were brought safely to The Washington May-Fair hotel.’’ Two fire engines, two fire rescue units and around 20 firefighters were called to deal with the gas leak which was caused by a ruptured gas main in Craven Street off the Strand, London Fire Brigade said. The gas leak was repaired by mid-morning Tuesday.
 
 
 
 Charing Cross and Waterloo East stations were shut, nearby roads were closed and a 100m police cordon put in place owing to high levels of natural gas coming off the ruptured main.
 
 Sharma’s spokesman on the trip Poonam Joshi said the delegation was later shifted to another hotel. “The English weather was freezing and Sharma and the rest of the Uttar Pradesh delegation waited outside for 1.5 hours without blankets before they were taken to another hotel,” Joshi said.
 
 A spokesperson for glh Hotels, which runs the four star Amba Charing Cross, where Sharma and his delegation were put up, said, “We can confirm there was a reported gas leak at Charing Cross station on Tuesday morning. 263 guests and team members on the property were promptly evacuated on the advice of the emergency services.”
 
