 is a non-communicable disease. According to   (World Health Organisation) in 2020, maximum patients of diabetes will be in India. India will be the world’s capital of Diabetes. The reasons behind it are – urbanisation, change in the life style, bad food habits and lack of exercise besides hereditary factors. Previously, it was a misbelief that non-communiacble diseases like diabetes can not be prevented. But it is now scientifically proven that one can prevent Diabetes. By definition, diabetes mellitus means increased blood sugars and to diagnose it, one has to check blood sugars in fasting state and then after breakfast or meal. If fasting blood sugar is more than 126 mg/dL and if post meal blood sugar is more than 200 mg/dL, then that person is definitely diabetic. Majority of the population is in   stage. Prediabetic stage means their blood sugars in fasting state are 100 – 125 mg/dL and after meal its 140 – 200 mg/dL. Prediabetic persons are the targeted popuation where interventions can be done and diabetes can be prevented or else the duration of the development of prediabetic stage to diabetic stage can be prolonged.

 Without testing blood sugars, one can check whether a person is prediabetic or diabetic in future. There is one risk score IDRS (Indian Diabetic Risk Score) which is invented by Prof. (Dr.) V. Mohan. IDRS has been validated also.
 
 
 
 1. What is your age?
 2. What is waist circumference?
 3. What is your life style like?
 4. What is the status of Diabetic family history?
 
 This risk score is especially useful for Indian population. If your risk score is greater than 60, there is high risk to the person and that person may be diabetic or pre-diabetic in future. Such individuals should check there blood sugars and if they are in pre-diabetic stage, the simplest way to decrease the progression of disease is to modify life style. i.e. balanced nutritious low calorie food and regular exercise.
 
 Avoid direct sugars and divide the calories in a day. Include FREE FOODS instead of FAST FOODS in the diet. Free foods means the foods which have lesser calories but cause satiety e.g. butter milk without butter, green salad etc. one should avoid fasting and feasting both. Along with diet; regular exercise like walking, running, cycling, swimming etc. and/or Yoga under proper guidance. 
 
 Following 
  principle is a way to monitor exercise –
 – at least 5 days in a week;
 – your doctor will decide according to your age and other conditions/diseases;
 – at least 30 -45 min in a day
  – walking, running, swimming, cycling etc.
 
  If you follow FITT principle you will be FIT throughout your life. One should give up the bad habits also viz. smoking and alcohol consumption. If you change your lifestyle, diabetes can be prevented or the process of developing diabetes can be prolonged. Lifestyle modification (LSM) is actually vaccine for prevention of non-communicable diseases like diabetes. So let us vaccinate ourselves by LSM (life style modification) so that we can prevent the risk of being diabetic in future. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
