There will be disruption in power supply from 10am to 5pm on Monday due to repair works in the following areas: Ramanuja Road, Hosabandi Keri, JSS Hospital, Agrahara, Basaveshwara Road, Chamundi Puram, suburban bus stand, Nazarbad, Ittige Gudu, Zoo, Government Guest House, taluk office, D Devaraja Urs Road, BN Road, Chamundi Hills, Siddartha Layout, Alanahalli, Giridarshini layout, Mysuru Palace, Sri Harsha road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Irwin Road, Dhanvantri Road, Shivarampet and surrounding areas.

  Workshop on  : The   is conducting a workshop on 'National Aptitude Test for Architecture' and 'How to crack NATA-2018' on its premises on Sunday. The workshop will give complete knowledge about the test and the architecture course. Call: 2970895. 
 
  Discussion on farming: Mysurean M S  , trustee of Diya Foundation was part of the 40-member team from different parts of the country at the discussion for sustainable farming, water management and doubling farmers' income organized by the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences in New Delhi on February 20. Prime Minister   and agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh took part in the conference. 
 
  Applications invited: Applications are invited from eligible candidates for the position of junior research fellow in the subject of Chemistry or Biochemistry under DBT-sponsored project for a period of three years. Interested are instructed to submit their application to assistant professor Basappa of department of science, University of Mysore. 9481200076. 
 
  Call for interview: Interview for the post of home guard volunteer will be conducted at the DAR Parade ground of the Mysuru District Armed Force, Jyothi Nagar. Interview from roll number 1 to 300 will be held on March 3 and from 301 to 600 will be held on March 4. 
 
  Selection trials: Selection trials for the disabled will be held at the   on Sunday. Athletes who perform well will be selected for the National Disabled Athletes Tournament to be held in Panchkula of Haryana in March. Candidates who have taken part in the district, state and national-level events will only be eligible. 9886014851. 
 
  Job fair: District employment exchange office will organize a job fair on Tuesday. Samruddhi Care, Apolamb Analysis Pvt Ltd and Big Bazaar will take part. Candidates with SSLC, PUC, degree and post graduates can participate in direct interviews. Appointment letters will be given on the spot. 
 
 
