BENGALURU:  ,  , ‘burger bun’ for Banaswadi and a ‘car’ for Carmelram. Welcome to the lingo of Trainspotters, a  . The group, which mostly comprises techies travelling by trains to Electronics City, has more than 4,600 passengers. Most of them regularly travel on the  

 Passengers who are a part of Trainspotters use emoticons to indicate stations and trains. For instance, ‘down arrow’ indicates a train has reached the station and a ‘cross mark’ means the train is at a level-crossing. While a ‘pair of eyes’ indicates Kannur Express, it’s a ‘tick mark’ for Yeswantpur Passenger (‘Yes’ of Yeswantpur being the indicator).
 
  
  
 
 With an average 1.5 lakh daily passengers, the city’s skeletal suburban services are growing popular, but many passengers complain about lack of information on train services as the railways’ National Train Enquiry System (NTES) app is not updated real time. As a result, an increasing number of passengers are now turning to WhatsApp and Telegram messaging groups to track trains real time.
 
 A Kesavan, a daily passenger between Bengaluru and Hosur, who is one of brains behind the symbol-based language, says: “Earlier, I started groups in messaging services like WeChat and WhatsApp. We shifted to Telegram in 2014 to accommodate more members. This is more reliable as it’s updated by passengers on-board.”
 
 While Kesavan was using a few emoticons for conversations, the list got updated after Jayaprakash Chinnamuthu, a techie, joined the group. Now, nearly 40 emoticons are used to indicate trains, stations and statuses.
 
 “It’s difficult to type names of trains and stations, hence these emoticons. The app also automatically fetches information related to trains from IRCTC websites and posts it to the group,” said Jayaprakash.
 
 App for suburban trains
 
 Techies travelling in suburban trains plan to introduce Railjini, a dedicated app for Bengaluru’s suburban train users. Said Suhas Narayan Murthy, founder of Namma City Express, a Facebook group campaigning for better suburban services: “The app is being developed by Mobijini, a private firm, with assistance from passengers. The app will give real-time information about suburban services in the city and also have a facility to interact with other train passengers. We are also in talks with cab aggregators like Ola and Uber to provide last-mile connectivity to users.” 
 
  Murthy said the app will be launched in a few days. “Currently, there is no dedicated app for suburban services,” he added. 
 
 South Western Railway officials said they plan to come up with a separate app for suburban rail users in Bengaluru. “We have received complaints about the NTES app. So, we have decided to launch an app dedicated to Bengaluru suburban rail users,” said a senior official.
 
 
