Chandigarh: The gram panchayat Pingore, block Hassanpur in district Palwal has decided to give eight Kanals of land to animal husbandry and dairying department, Haryana for construction of a veterinary dispensary. The land would be provided by the panchayat on lease for a period of 33 years at the rate of Re one per acre per year.

 More areas come under Bhupani police station 
 
 Chandigarh: The Haryana government has decided to include the area of Sector 85, 86 and village Budhaina and Bhatola falling under the jurisdiction of Bhupani police station, Kheripul in public interest. Decision has been taken for the convenience of the people, maintaining proper law and order situation and keeping a check on the incidents of crime.
 
 7 HoDs promoted
 
 Chandigarh: The Haryana government has promoted seven head of departments (HoD) in engineering to the post of Principal (Engineering), in government polytechnics of the state and also issued their posting and deputation orders with immediate effect.
 
 Aggarwal gets additional charge
 
 Chandigarh: Pankaj Aggarwal, director general, supplies and disposals and labour commissioner and secretary, labour department, Haryana, has been given additional charge of secretary, personnel, training, vigilance and parliamentary affairs departments and director training (ex-officio) during the leave period of Neerja Sekhar from January 3, 2018.
 
 Sugar mills crush 122.93L quintals
 
 Chandigarh: The cooperative sugar mills in Haryana have crushed 122.93 lakh quintal of sugarcane and produced over 11.04 lakh quintals of sugar so far during the ongoing crushing season. A spokesman of Sugarfed said cooperative sugar mill Shahabad has so far crushed a maximum of 21.68 lakh quintals of sugarcane and has produced over 2.06 lakh quintals of sugar, followed by cooperative sugar mill Rohtak which has crushed 18.94 lakh quintals of sugarcane, producing over 1.65 lakh quintals of sugar.
 
 Rozgar melas on Jan 9, 10
 
 Chandigarh: In Haryana, Rozgar melas will be organized at government industrial training institutes, Loharu and Yamunanagar on January 9 and 10, 2018 respectively. An official spokesman said the candidates who are permanent residents of Haryana, have passed ITI and registered under Saksham Yuva scheme would be eligible to participate in the rozgar mela.
 
 State implements digitized licensing services
 
 Chandigarh: Haryana has implemented registration of vehicles (Vahan 4.0) and driving license (Sarathi 4.0), developed by NIC, in the entire state with all modules. Transport minister Krishan Lal Panwar said the services provided with this software are in all 95 registration and licensing authorities. He said the department has always been in the forefront for providing hassle free services to the citizen through adoption of best practices and introducing IT enabled services for all the processes.
 
 
