Ajmer: A delegation led by PCC chief Sachin Pilot on Thursday met the observer and election officer. The team informed them that they have information that BJP will buy votes in the last three days of campaigning and it is the duty of election commission to check such illegal activities.

 Pilot said that BJP has lost the bypoll, both emotionally and morally, and therefore, chief minister Vasundhara Raje herself is trying to divide society into castes and sub-castes. “She is not directly meeting common voters to tell her achievements but she is meeting caste leaders in close rooms to lure them,” said Pilot.
 
 He added that he warned election officers that in next three days, BJP will distribute large money in Ajmer and it is the duty of commission to control it. “We also work as a watchman in the constituency and I asked all workers to shoot such malpractice in their regions,” said Pilot.
 
 Talking on the issue of sensitive polling booths, election office has considered more booths that BJP has given the names while Congress too has doubts on many polling booths. “We wanted that every polling booth should have sufficient force to have free and fair elections,” added Pilot.
 
 Pilot said that BJP is not talking on any development in Ajmer because Chief Minister knows that in last four years her government has done nothing and people still remembered the development made by congress government, “I challenge BJP candidate to have open discussion with congress candidate Raghu Sharma on the issue of development” said Pilot.
 
 On Padmawat row, Pilot said that it is the duty of government to see that sentiments of any group should not hurt and it is the duty of government to maintain law and order but this government failed in both duties, “Home Minister remark about me that I am a fake Pilot, for his knowledge I have valid license to fly planes. I think this Home Minister is fake because he fails in performing his duty” added Pilot
 
 Pilot cleared that congress is going to common man and briefing their work and further programs and not meeting caste leaders to have some business. “The whole BJP state government is in Ajmer and they too have locked down their state BJP office in Jaipur and everyone according to caste is trying to divide people of Ajmer” said Pilot.
 
 Black paper released
 
 Congress spokesperson Partap Singh Khachariayawas on Thursday evening released the black paper of BJP ministers in which congress claimed corruption as well as their work.
 
 The black paper claimed that when Kiran Maheshwari was PHD minister a racket was busted in water pipe matter. As well as the government schools those are handed over to private sector. There were lists of ministers and their work.
 
 Human chain to spread awareness of right to vote
 
 Ajmer: To spread awareness about polling human chain was made on Thursday by 25 thousand and 50 people of the city around Anasagar Lake that turned as record in India Book of Records. To increase awareness about voting the election officer and district collector Gaurav Goyal has started this program and at 8 n the morning, people started gathering and students of different schools also participated and they took oath to use their right to vote. 
 
 
