Chennai: In a move that could help app and wallet users, Reserve Bank of India has hinted that sector-specific regulatory agencies can be started. Given the presence of diverse fintech players such as wallets, peer-to-peer lenders, cryptocurrency exchanges, blockchain providers, a working group of the Reserve Bank of India has recommended that there is a need for “Individual regulatory agencies to assess the different skill sets that they have assigned towards evaluating FinTech innovations. Identify specific technologies that regulatory agencies may benefit from having or may need to have appropriate expertise to supervise.” Industry observers say when the new regulator is in place implementation of rules will become a lot easier. “We as a nation are famous for our ability to jugaad (hack) the process, one such was when people quickly realized that they could top-up their digital wallets with their credit card and then smoothly move the funds to their underlying bank accounts. This was possible given that as far as the credit card issuer was concerned your wallet was ‘just another merchant’ and there was no way to figure out what that money would be used for,” says Dhamodharan Sampathkumar, chief delivery officer and GM, APAC, Rennovite Technologies. “The right way to manage this is for digital wallet providers to provide a mandatory ‘multi-purse’ feature, wherein money loaded from credit cards would be moved to purse C, while other cash loads from net banking, debit cards etc would be moved to a purse D. This would enable the Wallet provider to put in checks and balances to ensure that purse C funds can never be moved into a bank account or cashed out and can only be spent on merchant transactions online or at POS locations. Its about time the regulator woke up and enforced mandates,” he added. Another issue is that when it comes to cryptocurrencies, RBI does not have the mandate to check payments made outside the country. “It is possible to buy cryptocurrencies from players in the US and use that to ship drugs, weapons or anything that might be illegal. There is a huge amount of trafficking that goes on because for purchases on sites outside of India. Tracking is possible, but it requires more sophisticated tools,” says Vinod Senthil, CEO, InfySec.