
 CHENNAI: Dumping of copper slag (residue) from Sterlite Copper's smelter unit along the Uppar stream at   in   district worsened floods in the region in 2015, according to the district administration and documents available with TOI. The state witnessed one of the worst floods in decades in 2015. Unprecedented deluge led to the loss of lives and displaced thousands of families across the state. 

 According to a Thoothukudi revenue department official, hundreds of families were affected in the region due to flooding in the Uppar stream. On July 28, 2016, in a review meeting chaired by then Thoothukudi collector   it was pointed out that the residents were distressed due to the flooding caused by overflow of the stream where copper slag was dumped on the banks of the river. Representatives from Sterlite Copper and   (TNPCB) were also present in the meeting. The company representatives had assured the district administration of clearing the copper slag with immediate effect.
 
 However, in a showcause notice issued by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board eight months later, on March 14 2017, it accused the company of violating a host of environmental norms including dumping of copper residue (slag) on the banks of the stream. "About 3.52 lakh tons of copper slag was found dumped on the site during inspection," the showcause notice stated
 
 According to TNPCB sources, this is one of the five reasons why Consent to Operate which expired on March 31 this year has not been renewed by the pollution control board. The company has already filed a petition challenging the board's decision and the case is due for hearing on Friday.
 
 In one of the directions given to Sterlite while granting permission to operate till March 2018, TNPCB said, "The unit has to take action to construct physical barrier between river Uppar and slag landfill area to prevent slag from reaching the river"
 
 Vedanta Ltd, in its reply to TNPCB's showcause notice, stated that the state and central pollution control board permitted use of copper slag for filling up of low lying areas. "We had entered into an agreement in 2010... for supply of copper slag for developing his low lying patta land in   for construction of a container yard," their reply stated. They supplied copper slag in 2010 and 2011 and it was the land owner who carried out the required land filling and levelling activities, it added.
 
 In a compliance reply sent to the pollution control board on September 7, the company said that they had complied with most of the consent conditions laid down by the regulator. On constructing the physical barrier to prevent the slag from reaching the river, the company stated that the matter is sub-judice between the district administration and the land owner and they treat the condition as complied from their end.
 
 
