The sand mafia has ruled over the dry river courses across Tamil Nadu for years, plundering the resource at will with the tacit connivance of the administration. Monday’s murder of police constable S   is only the latest in the series of such killings the mafia has orchestrated to silence all opposition.

 
  
  
 
 The illicit activity stems from the nexus among the police, revenue officials and politicians of the ruling party. The officers from the two departments are often bribed to allow trucks to pass through. Many times, officials said there was political pressure due to which they would not seize the illegal sand.
 
  
  
 
 Recently, a truck with river sand was even claimed to be M-sand by police officials in Coimbatore after it was seized near CODISSIA grounds in the city. The police and revenue officials refused to conduct any test on the sand and sent a report stating it was M-sand. Officials in the village panchayats said since they did not have manpower and fourwheelers, they were afraid to conduct raids.
 
 “Most times, the men are drunk and they all possess weapons,” said an official. At least 100 tonnes of sand is smuggled from Coimbatore’s   every day. Each truck load sold for Rs 40,000 to Rs 45,000.
 
 Illegal and indiscriminate mining of sand has been thriving in the Union territory of Puducherry and neighbouring Tamil Nadu’s Cuddalore and Villupuram districts with patronage from a few politicians and government officials in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. Activists in Madurai said illegal sand mining thrived on several stretches of Vaigai River, including Kochadai and   in Madurai city limits and Sholavandan in the district.
 
 Several such activists have, however, fallen victims to their movement spearheaded to end the menace. For instance, a police constable was mowed down by sand smugglers when he tried to stop them from stealing sand from Kosasthalaiyar riverbed near Purusai village in   district in 2016. The district had witnessed several attacks on activists and elected representatives in the past.
 
 Ever since November 2003, when the Jayalalithaa regime ‘nationalised’ sand mining by taking over all quarries from private contractors, authorities never brooked any interference that would undermine government role. It has banned sand quarrying on private patta land; it has restricted entry of sand-laden vehicles from other states saying they brought ‘silicon-rich’ sand; and now it has sealed possible sand sources in  , though it was chief minister of that state who set the ball rolling.
 
 Though, on paper, it is the state public works department which operates sand mines, the actual mining, loading and transporting work are outsourced to second sale contractors who till recently had their own stock yard where they hoarded hillocks of mined river sand. Price of second sale sand is at least six times more than what it costs at the quarry. While the Madras high court banned sand quarrying across the state, the state government obtained a stay on the order in the   leading to opening up of new quarries.
 
 (Inputs from A Subramani, J Shanmugasundaram, MK Ananth, V Mayilvaganan, V Devanathan, Bosco Dominique)
 
