Rajkot: Work on the proposed new international airport at Rajkot is yet to take off even six months after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid its foundation. 

 The reason being that the district authority has not handed over the land to the Airport Authority of India (AAI), delaying the tendering process by a month and a half.
 
 Just few days before the Gujarat assembly elections were announced last year, PM Modi had laid the foundation stone for the new international greenfield airport near Hirasar, about 30km from Rajkot city. The environment clearance was obtained in October the same year.
 
 The 1,085-hectare land is required for the Rs 2,500-crore airport project, of which 295 hectare was provided initially by the district authorities but rest of the land was not handed over to the AAI as proposed to initiate the bidding process. When contacted, Rajkot airport director, B K Das said, “The procedure to hand over the land has not been done. Once the land is with us work will start.”
 
 According to Rajkot collector’s office, of the total remaining 814 hectare land, 30 hectare has to be acquired from private owners and rest has to be taken from the forest department. The procedure to acquire forest land has been completed.
 
 Officials further said that the forest department was given land in replacement of land in Kutch. 
 
 Rajkot district collector Vikrant Pandey said, “AAI’s expert team from Mumbai and Delhi will measure the land and take the possession. We have completed all the procedure at the state government level and whenever they ask we will hand over the possession. The problem is only with the acquisition of 30 hectare private land. That too will not be a big issue.”
 
 According to sources, tender for the project was supposed to be floated by February end which will be done now in the end of April. Meanwhile, the airport project has got clearance from defence, civil aviation and environment ministries.
 
 The current airport in Rajkot is very small and only has five flights per day. The new international airport is expected to give big boost to Saurashtra’s trade and industry. However, traders are skeptical of the new airport becoming operational in the expected time. 
 
 Parth Ganatra, vice president of Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “It was an election announcement and we don’t think that the new airport will be functional in the next 10 years. Looking at the pace at which the work is going on, it seems there is lack of coordination between state and central government agencies and the reason is that now there is no political pressure.”
 
 
