Nagpur: Team bonding was one of the reasons of Vidarbha’s success this season in the longer format. Coach Chandrakant Pandit’s philosophy was simple— team comes first. He made boys to stay together, enjoy together and help each other out.

 
 
  ( ) adopted a similar approach during Under-19 team’s campaign in the Cooch Behar Trophy. The boys were put together at   for quarterfinal, semifinal and final, which were played in Nagpur. The idea was to improve camaraderie among the players. It worked for them as they won their maiden   title earlier this year.
 
 With Irani Trophy coming up, VCA is thinking of putting whole team, including support staff, in hotel. The Ranji Trophy champions will play Rest of India at VCA’s Jamtha Stadium from March 14.
 
 TOI has reliably learnt that Pandit has spoken to president Anand Jaiswal and vice-president Prashant Vaidya—who is also a cricket incharge—regarding this. If sources are to be believed all of them are on same page. Pandit had also formed various committees within the team which would look after different things. The idea was to have everyone’s involvement. “Pandit wants his team to win Irani Trophy. He knows it won’t be easy. He is also not pleased with the players the way they played in Twenty20 and One-day tournaments. When Vidarbha’s campaign ended in Hyderabad, he gave them enough peace of mind. He told the boys that staying at the top will be challenge for them from now onwards,” sources, in know of things, said.
 
 Pandit also said that teams will now approaching Vidarbha game with different intensity and the players need to be mindful of this fact. The players have experienced that during Twenty20 and Hazare Trophy where they messed it up at the business end of the tournament after being at the top at one stage.
 
  are starting their preparatory camp from Sunday. “The plan was already given to the players in Hyderabad regarding fitness. Now, players will be focusing on the skills just like they did during the pre-season camps,” a source said.
 
 Vidarbha players are likely to have three to four days skills camp and after that there will be match simulation sessions. “Match simulation had done wonders during Ranji Trophy. With no longer matches now, match simulation will help the players to get into the groove quickly. Our boys are motivated for Irani Trophy. After Ranji Trophy, their self-belief has increased,” he said.
 
 
