MUMBAI: A 29-year-old Sion resident was sentenced to life imprisonment on Tuesday for murdering a three-year-old girl and her grandmother in 2011.   and her grandmother,   (55), were found dead in a pool of blood at their home on the evening of June 3, 2011. 

  A cupboard in their house was found open and gold worth over Rs 3.5 lakh and Rs 3,500 in cash were missing from it. Soon after the crime, the accused, Vishal Shrivastav, who lived in the same building, had tried to pin the murders on the girl's father. 
 
 On April 12, additional sessions judge M S Azmi found Vishal Shrivastav guilty of murder, robbery with attempt to cause death and house trespass. Following the conviction, public prosecutor Mangesh Arote and the defence submitted arguments on quantum of sentence, after which the court pronounced its verdict on Tuesday. A total of 23 witnesses deposed in the trial.
 
 In her deposition, Vaishnavi's mother, Sheetal (37), said that on returning from work that day, she found their house door open and the inside wooden door latched. Sheetal, who worked at a brokering firm, said her mother did not answer the doorbell. 
 
 After enquiring with the neighbours, Sheetal said she called her cousin, Chetan Nagotkar, who lived in the same apartment complex. After looking around for some time, when Chetan used a ladder to climb to a window of their first-floor house, he saw Vaishnavi and Ranjana lying in a pool of blood. While the child lay on a bed, Ranjana's body was lying between the bed and the room door.
 
 
 
 
 A total of 23 witnesses deposed in the Sion double murder case trial. On April 12, additional sessions judge M S Azmi found Vishal Shrivastav guilty of murder, robbery with attempt to cause death and house trespass. 
 
 Following the conviction, public prosecutor Mangesh Arote and the defence submitted arguments on quantum of sentence, after which the court pronounced its verdict on Tuesday. 
 
 In her deposition, Vaishnavi’s mother, Sheetal (37), said that on returning from work at 7pm that day, she found their house door open and the inside wooden door latched. Sheetal, who worked at a brokering firm, said her mother did not answer the doorbell. 
 
 After enquiring with the neighbours, Sheetal said she called her cousin, Chetan Nagotkar, who lived in the same apartment complex. After a while, when Chetan used a ladder to climb onto a window of their first-floor house, he saw Vaishnavi and Ranjana lying in a pool of blood. While the child lay on a bed, Ranjana’s body was wedged between the bed and the room door. 
 
 Sheetal said Chetan then called his brother and their neighbours, who broke open the door. The mother recalled that she saw cut wounds on her child and mother. Her mother’s neck was also covered with a pillow. Sheetal’s husband, Santosh, arrived soon after. 
 
 At the hearing, Sheetal said the accused used to frequent their house and borrow small amounts of money. She added that about 15-20 days before the incident, he had sought Rs 1.5 lakh from her mother, who had expressed her inability to lend such a large amount. 
 
 Sheetal said that Vishal knew about the cupboard containing the jewellery. She said that on November 8, 2011, when police unsealed an envelope which contained 12 pieces of jewellery at the police station, she had identified them as belonging to her family. 
 
 In his deposition, Santosh said that during the initial investigations, he learned that cops had began to suspect him. On enquiring with police, he was told Shrivastav had alleged that he and Sheetal fought frequently as he had told
 him that he (Shrivastav) had seeing her on a bike with another man. 
 
 Santosh said cops told him Shrivastav had claimed this had led to led to the murders. Santosh said he was even willing to undergo tests to ascertain the truth. 
 
 Santosh, a doting father, has followed the case closely, right from the investigation stage to the trial. “We wanted the accused to get the death sentence but are satisfied that he was given life sentence in each of the two murders. My wife and I are very happy. Justice has been done for my daughter Pilloo as I fondly called her and my mother-in-law. Our witnesses were under pressure from outside elements but they still managed to stay true and support the case,” Santosh said. Santosh and Sheetal recently welcomed twins—a boy and a girl—through assisted reproduction.
 
 
 
