CHENNAI: Travelling home for vacation has become a big hassle for people from Rajasthan who live in Chennai as premium tatkal fare on trains and air fares have shot up due to high demand. Families are forced to spend Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 to travel by trains and flights as airlines and railways have not increased services on the high-demand route between Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan. 

 Premium tatkal fare, which increases based on demand for seats, on trains to Jodhpur and Ahmedabad have increased several times the normal fare. The premium fares touched Rs 2,000 for sleeper class and Rs 7,000 for AC III tier ticket on Mannargudi-Jodhpur Express via Chennai on Monday while premium tatkal fare is Rs 2,220 for sleeper class as against the regular fare of Rs 720 and premium fare is Rs 6,335 for AC III tier as against Rs 1,900 regular fare on Navjeevan Express to Ahmedabad on Tuesday. The fare is high on Chennai-Ahmedabad route as people who did not get train tickets to Jodhpur travel via Ahmedabad. More than four lakh people from Rajasthan live in Chennai. 
 
  
 Darshan Vaishnav, who travels home to Pali Marwar every year, had to spend Rs 2,200 for a premium tatkal sleeper class ticket after the ticket he booked on a Chennai-Jodhpur Expres did not get confirmed. “I had booked the ticket when reservation opened. Still I got a ticket for a waitlist of 370 for travel on Saturday. I had to opt for the premium tatkal to travel on Monday because there is a wedding in the family to attend in the coming week,” he said. 
 
 Majority of the people who live in Chennai are those from Jodhpur, Pali Marwar, Jaisalmer, Falna, Sirohi Road and other in the Marwar region of Rajasthan. 
 
 Ashok Rajpurohit, president, Tamil Nadu Rajasthani Pravasi Ekta Sangh, which had been demanding for more trains between the cities in the last five to ten years said: “There are more trains from Bengaluru to Jodhpur than from Chennai. We have to depend on Chennai-Jodhpur Express which is not a daily service. People are forced to travel via Bengluru or via Ahmedabad.” 
 
 He also said, “The options are fewer for travel. The demand for seats on Ahmedabad Navjeevan Expres is because of the number of people travelling to Rajasthan. They will travel by other trains or buses to reach their destination in Marwar or Jodhpur.” 
 
 Wait list is 186 on sleeper class and 30 on AC III tier on Navjeevan Express and premium tatkal tickets are not available on Tuesday.
 
 
