In 2016,  , the first woman to hold the cabinet post of US secretary of state, said: “Just remember, there’s a special place in hell for women who don’t help each other.” Now, Albright has never been the one to mince words. But the recent #MeToo movement — tackling widespread prevalence of sexual assault and harassment, especially in the workplace — has proved that it’s not “every woman for herself” anymore. Women have got each other’s back. 

 From going all-black for   and BAFTAs to telling their stories through spoken word poetry or forming girl bands or creating content with them as the protagonists – the future is indeed, female. The new women power is the power of sisterhood and women are fighting the notion that two women can never be friends. 
 
 
 
 Alankrita Shrivastava, director and writer of Lipstick Under My Burkha, says, “The notion that women don’t help and support other women has always suited patriarchal interests. I, for one, feel that women love subverting things and the stereotype is breaking down.” For Shrivastava, nothing beats the vibe and energy of working in an all-women team. “It’s collaborative and supportive. It’s a positive place,” she says.
 
 Women are speaking up for women, as slam poet Diksha Bijlani proves with her popular works. All of 21 years, Bijlani says, “I see it [spoken word poetry] encouraging women to reclaim all the things patriarchy has for long made them hate about themselves – body fat, or body hair, or dark skin. I strongly believe that when the new generation of girls grows up with models of women who were not ashamed about how they were built, they will be much better equipped to smash every norm. And girls who don’t hate themselves become women with self-respect – and that is the strongest tool in the hands of a woman.” 
 
 It’s all about loving yourself and being yourself. Be it in films, books, poems or comedy — even fitness — today, a woman is making her own choices. She decides if she wants to be strong or bulky or just “happy with her body”. Case in point: fit girl Harpreet Pandher. “Being fit isn’t just about having a fit body but also a healthy mind. I love watching others lead a healthy lifestyle, because to me, it shows you are invested in your self-care.” The motto is simple: “Strong in mind and body”.
 
 
 
 Shrivastava is annoyed by the notions of sacrifice and ‘everyone else before her’ that women are forced to live by. She feels that cinema plays a big role in setting those notions. She says, “We need many more films made by women, helmed by them. Until we reach a point when every Friday 50 per cent of films are by women and another 50 per cent about women we have a very long way to go.” Interestingly, Shrivastava, working on her second film, was asked if she’s making another women-oriented film. “It’s not a separate genre. We never ask a Rohit Shetty, if he’s making another male oriented film!”
 But times they are a changing, as more women come out in support of one another. As actor, writer Gloria Vanderbilt had said once: “I always believed that one woman’s success can only help another woman’s success.”
 
 
 
 Everyday acts that can help the woman sitting next to you
 
 
 
 Because films like Neerja and Queen, have managed to send producers laughing to their banks, there are others who are willing to cast women in lead roles. There is progress! But are we breaking any ceiling? Not yet, no. 
 
 
 I think there is far more noise around Women’s Day now but I think the question we should ask is whether all this attention — and this seeming support for women’s ‘causes’ — is just a faux women’s lib bubble created by advertising... because we are still pretty quick to shout down or s**t-shame women talking about their experiences 
 
 
 
 
 
