Air pollution is being increasingly recognised to be a major risk factor for various cardiovascular disorders including heart attack, heart failure, stroke, arrhythmia etc. Doctors say that air pollution also increases the risk of respiratory diseases and worsens the situation in a pre-existing respiratory disease like bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive airway disease. In a recent study, it has been found that even spikes in air pollution can aggravate heart risk as much as sustained exposure. 

 Senior interventional cardiologist Dr   and cardiac-electrophysiologist Dr   give us a lowdown on the various aspects of 
 pollution and cardiovascular diseases.
 
 
 
 Air pollution is mainly due to increased concentration of particulate matters lesser than 2.5 micron and 10 micron, increased concentration of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone etc, say experts. Various sources of the air pollution are heavy vehicular traffic, industrial units, forest fire etc. Pollution can come from traffic, factories, power generation, wildfires or even cooking with a wood stove. One of the most common indoor sources is smoking — a danger to the person lighting up and to those nearby.
 
 
 
 Acute short-term effects of air pollution are seen in elderly individuals who are already struggling with heart disease. An individual with heart blocks or having fatty deposits on the inner lining of the arteries, experiences immediate trouble when pollutants play a role in causing plaque in a blood vessel to rupture, leading to a heart attack.
 
 
 
 Studies have shown increases in deaths and hospitalisations when there are high concentrations of air pollutants. Pollution leads to inflammatory effects on the blood vessels and heart, causing chronic cardiovascular problems.
 
 Pollution particles which are smaller than 2.5 microns, which are usually related to fuel combustion are most toxic and cause irritation of the lungs and blood vessels around the heart.
 
 Short-term exposure can increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, arrhythmias and heart failure. The risk of death is greater from long-term exposure. It also may play a role in high blood pressure and diabetes.
 
 The various gaseous toxins and PM2.5 pollutants can easily pass to the alveoli and diffuse into blood. These toxins can lead to endothelium damage and increased fat deposit in the arteries of heart. These toxins also can cause plaque rupture leading to heart attack and stroke.
 
 Spikes of air pollution suddenly increase the blood toxin levels. This in turn lead to plaque rupture and heart attack or stroke. This may lead to arrhythmia, a heart rate disorder, which can be sometimes fatal.
 
 
 
 Breathing polluted air causes an increase in the blood levels of stress hormones. Thus long-term exposure to pollution is associated with heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and a shorter life span.
 
 Patient’s levels of the stress hormones like cortisol, cortisone, epinephrine and norepinephrine have been shown to rise with increase in levels of air pollutants causing an increase in levels of blood sugar, fatty acids and lipids. This caused higher blood pressure, a worse response to insulin, and an increase in markers of molecular stress on body tissues — all of which can, over time, increase the risk for heart disease, diabetes and other problems.
 
 
 Trying our best to reduce the sources of air pollution is the least we can do. Here are a few things we must keep in mind…
 
 
 
