KOLKATA:   have the longest wait in the country as the police verification takes a protracted period to be completed, in some cases, more than three months. The inordinate delay is apparently owing to two reasons: one, the officials’ reluctance to use technology and secondly, the porous border of Bengal with Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan apparently makes the task more difficult than rest of India.

  
  
 
 The   has earned the notoriety of recording the highest pendency when it came to verification before passports are issued. As many as 46,967 passport applications, including those from states like Tripura and Sikkim, have been lying with the police in the Kolkata region, over 90% of which are the responsibility of the Bengal Police. It usually takes an average of 15 days to carry out the police verification for an individual applicant in other parts of India, while the Bengal average is 41 days. Even in Kolkata, which has the best record among the Bengal districts, the performance has dropped from an average of 10 days to 35 days, said a regional passport official. The worst police districts are Darjeeling and Cooch Behar, which take an average of 103 and 101 days, and the best Howrah, with an average of 15 days.
 
 According to passport officials, one of the main reasons for Bengal lagging behind other states in clearing the applications is the police’s reluctance to use mPassport Seva, a mobile app that helps cops file a police verification report (PVR) on the spot. Instead, they apparently insist on following the earlier longdrawn practice of recording the report manually and then filing it online. Only two police districts—Kolkata and Bidhannagar Police Commissionerates—use the app.
 
 Another reason, a passport official said, was the porous border that Bengal shared with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. “It is a question of national security. We can’t expedite the verification as the task may not be fool-proof,” said Bibhuti Bhusan Kumar, regional passport officer.
 
 The regional passport office pays an incentive of Rs 150 to process an application within 21 days and Rs 75 for beyond. Most states have utilized the fund to buy tabs for the verification officers so that they can visit the applicants’ homes, take their photos, scan the original documents and upload them online on the spot. This not only speeds uo the process but also makes it paperless and hassle-free.
 
 The ministry of external affairs has also sanctioned five more Post Office Passport   (POPSK) in Bengal. Besides, head post offices in Bengal are supposed to double as Passport Seva Kendras; the sanctioned facilities are at Balurghat (South Dinajpur), Chinsurah (Hooghly), Kharagpur (West Midnapore), Diamond Harbour (South 24 Parganas) and Rampurhat (Birbhum), where applicants don’t have to visit Kolkata or Behrampore any more.
 
 
