Mangaluru: Yadav Sanil was happy working at a catering firm in  . As part of a thanksgiving for his good fortune, he started organising religious meets regularly. However, one such prayer meet marked the end of his stay in the Middle East.

 In 2015, Sanil was   with 10 other Mangalureans after a prayer meet. Two years on, he works as a mason, a coolie and at a wheel manufacturing unit to make ends meet.
 
 “I have to bring up five children. My elder son is 19 years old and the younger one is 17. If I keep waiting for a good opportunity, my family will starve. I do these jobs so that we get enough to sustain our lives,” said Sanil, who stays with his wife, two sons, his sister and her three children at his house in Elinje.
 
 “I’ve seen difficult times. Life was better when I was in Kuwait for 15 years. Now, I’m back to square one. I was planning to work for some more time in Kuwait, take the service amount and then return to start a business in my home town. All my dreams are like grains of sand in my palm,” he said.
 
 Sanil said he has to get between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 20 lakh service amount from his employer. However, all hopes of getting the money have been dashed.
 
 Sanil had to drop out from high school so that he could help manage the family. He always wanted to go overseas and earn a good salary. In 2001, his dream came true when Sanil flew to Kuwait. He did not take much time to adjust to the conditions there. Slowly but steadily, he rose up the ranks at a catering firm. Sanil and his friends would organise religious meets and festivals. He was also a member of the trust and contributed in reaching out to the needy, especially Mangalureans.
 
 “The pujas were on since 2005 and there was no interference until 2014. However, in 2015, my life turned upside down and I’m yet to figure out why,” Sanil said.
 
 A few hours after finishing a  , Kuwaiti police held Sanil, covered his head with a black cloth and took him and 10 others to the airport. They seized their passports and deported them.
 
 “The reason for deporting us is best known to the Arabs. There were allegations of religious conversion against us, but they aren’t true,” he said. Interestingly, Muslims from Mangaluru in Kuwait had helped Sanil in his tough times. They even tried their best in the embassy to ensure that Sanil and friends weren’t deemed guilty.
 
 After arriving in Mangaluru, Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, Dakshina Kannada, took these victims to external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj. “We haven’t received any response,” Sanil said.
 
 Sanil maintains a low profile and is not an active member of religious meets anymore. “I continue to be a believer. But I have my reservations now,” he said.
 
 
