PANCHKULA: Haryana agriculture minister O P Dhankar on Thursday gave away Swachhta   winners selected by the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) over the last three years in   Auditorium, Sector 5, Panchkula.

 The awards for 2018 were given away to Cactus Garden, Sector 5 as Swachh park, Sector 12 community centre as Swachh community centre, Paras Bliss Hospital, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5 as Swachh hospital, Sector 12A as Swachh market, WelcomHotel Bella Vista as Swachh Hotel and St Soldier School, Sector 16 as Swachh school.
 
  
  
 
 The winners of Swachhta awards 2016 and 2017 were also given at the same function. The winners included Senior Secondary School, Saketri, Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 20, Government Primary School, Sector 12A, Government Primary School, Ashiana, Sector 20, Sector 12A community centre, Ashiana residential area, Sector 8 market, Society number 1201 Sector 12, Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam and   buildings, Sector 4 and Ayurveda dispensary, Sector 2.
 
 Besides this, MC employees and local residents were also given awards for performing outstanding duties towards making the city beautiful.
 
 Dhankar, while addressing to the audience, stated that he was the minister head of Panchkula district in the year 2015, when Swachh Bharat Abhiyan was started in the country and feels proud of the excellent work done by the Panchkula MC and the local residents for making the city beautiful.
 
  in his speech stated that he along with the local residents worked very hard and cleaned the markets, parks, hospitals among all parts of the city.
 
 MC commissioner Rajesh Jogpal said he worked hard to make the city open defecation free (ODF) and also recruited 175 sanitation workers and 50 gardeners in the MC team.
 
 Deputy mayor Sunil Talwar, additional deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar, assistant commissioner of police Noopur Bishnoi, district BJP president Deepak Sharma, MC councillors and officials were also present on the occassion.
 
 
 
 
 High drama was witnessed as sanitation workers found no proper seating arrangement for them at the Indradhanush Auditorium, Sector 5. They all came out of the auditorium when the agricultural minister O P Dhankar was about to arrive. The workers showed protest against the disrespect towards them. MC executive officer O P Sihag then requested the workers to be seated and not to protest as the minister was on his way to the event venue. Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta and officials of MC stopped Dhankar at the auditorium’s parking area till sanitation workers were not seated inside. EO Sihag had to make alternate arrangements for them. Sofas were arranged immediately for the sanitation workers inside.
 
 
