PATNA: The initial fear raised in January that the government decision to make   number must for purchase of fertilizers at subsidized rates from licensed retailers would hit   in the cultivation of   and other winter crops has been proved wrong. The sales of fertilizers remained the same in the state like past few years.

 The farmers were asked to purchase chemical fertilizers at subsidized rates only from 24,330 licensed retailers who, in turn, were also directed to use the point of sale (POS) machines.
 
 The farmers were required to use the Aadhaar number, as the subsidy amount had to be passed onto the companies concerned. Doubts were raised that not all the farmers have Aadhaar number and, therefore, the overall sale/purchase and the use of fertilizers in Rabi and other winter crops would be affected. 
 
 “In fact, the gap between the demand and supply is not huge. It only means that the farmers have continued to use chemical fertilizers like urea,  , NPK and potash at the same level as in the past,” said Ashok Prasad, officer on special duty ( ) in the cell of agriculture department principal secretary Sudhir Kumar.
 
 “The dip or fall in the use of chemical fertilizers that was feared has not occurred,” Prasad reiterated and said the demand for urea in the state is 12 lakh metric tonne (MT) against which 9.12 lakh MT has already been supplied by the companies concerned from October-November 2017 up to February 7.
 
 The companies have also supplied 4.06 lakh MT of DAP, 1.83 lakh MT of NPK and 1.71 lakh MT. “In the two months till March, the farmers would need only urea and not other items,” Prasad said.
 
 The companies concerned would supply the remaining volume of around 2.50 lakh MT of urea fertilizers by the end of March this year, taking the total consumption of urea for Rabi and winter crops to around 11.62 lakh MT.
 
 “This matches with the average consumption of urea over the last three years, with the exception of one year,” Prasad said, adding the average actual consumption of urea for the Rabi crops in the state is from 10.50 lakh MT to 11.50 lakh MT. Comparatively, the urea consumption was 10.76 lakh MT in 2014-15, 14 lakh MT in 2015-16, and 10.94 lakh MT in 2016-17.
 
 
