Jaipur: With all the focus on Rani Padmini and the history of Mewar rulers, Rajasthan government has decided to showcase Chittorgarh Fort as an example of bravery and sacrifice through the proposed Chittorgah Fort Development Authority (CFDA). The theme for promotions would be ‘saka’ (do or die call by Rajput warriors) and ‘Jauhar’, which the government claims are synonymous with the fort and Mewar history.

 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje had announced to set up the body in her budget speech last year (2017) intending to develop the iconic fort as a world-class monument along with curbing mining around the fort which has caused cracks in the walls and several buildings. Since the controversy over Padmini raked up, the prime focus of the CFDA is believed to have shifted to highlight the courage, valour and sacrifice of the Mewar kings and queens.
 
 Raje will head the authority while members will include officials from ASI, ministry of tourism and culture and historians.
 
 Onkar Singh Lakhawat, head of Rajasthan Heritage Conservation Authority told TOI that that larger vision of CFDA is to create the fort as a world-class monument. “The central themes of the CFDA ‘saka’ and ‘Jauhar’ are unparalleled examples of human sacrifice in the history of mankind. Both practices have surpassed all other practices or incidents known for human sacrifice,” said Lakhawat. He told TOI that everything is in the initial stage. “Once the plan is final, it will be shared. But I assure that things are moving fast in the formulation of CFDA,” said Lakhawat.
 
 TOI learnt that soon an ordinance will be passed or bill will be presented in the state assembly to form CFDA as soon as possible. Chittorgarh Fort is under ASI. “State has no stake in the fort and the functioning of the authority requires certain powers which are not possible without the consent from ASI,” said a source.
 
 Chittorgarh Fort has seen three incidents of ‘Jauhars’ (self-immolation by princesses and women) and three ‘sakas’ (Rajput warriors going into the battlefield for a final combat) from 1303 CE to 1567 CE. The historical texts say that first ‘Jauhar’ was in 1303 CE, second in 1535 CE and third in 1567 CE.
 
 
