PUNE: The Pune police on Wednesday booked the vice chancellor of a private university in Aundh, its chief financial officer, head of a department and the director of a creative educational foundation in a research institute in Katraj and others for allegedly obtaining fake doctorate degrees.

 A case was registered against these suspects with the Chatushrungi police after the crime branch officials obtained information from the university.
 
 Allen   (53) of Salisbury Park, who is connected to the church that supports the university, lodged an FIR after seeking information from the university and its headquarters in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Almeyda told TOI, “The in-house magazine of the college had a write-up about three persons getting doctorates. I wondered how they could sit in Pune and a get doctorate from a university in Himachal Pradesh.” He filed an   query with the private university.
 
 Senior inspector Nitin Bhosale Patil of the crime branch said Almeyda sought all the information on the degrees from the church in Tamil Nadu and from the university’s office in Pune and was told that they will reply by December 30, 2017. 
 
 In its reply, the university authorities said it was a private institution and did not fall under the purview of the RTI Act. “Almeyda then reported the matter to the state government which told the crime branch to probe the matter,” he said.
 
 Assistant inspector Dhananjay   of the crime branch sought copies of the degree certificates and started investigations. He approached the authorities of   in Himachal Pradesh, a state and UGC affiliated institution.
 
 “The university officials said they had not issued the doctorate degrees to the three office-bearers. It was clear the degrees were fake,” Kapre said.
 
 The trio approached a director of creative educational foundation run by a research institute at Katraj who provided them with the fake degrees, police said.
 
 A statement from the son on behalf of the vice chancellor said, “ A few aspiring people in the same campus who do not want the three PhD holders to get re-elected lodged the police complaint. We have documents issued by the institute and university that awarded the PhD. The original documents have given to the police for further investigation of the case.”
 
 
