Madurai: It is only a matter of time before Madurai Corporation is accorded an Open Defecation Free (ODF) city status by the Union ministry of Urban Development. A third party team which had audited the city's sanitation factors had proposed to the Centre that Madurai be declared ODF.

 The prospect of ODF status excites corporation officials. Around 12 km away, near the Vellakkal landfill site, C Jayalakshmi, a resident of Manthaiyamman Koil street, shared the city corporation's excitement. She, like the civic body, dislikes open defecation and believes there is no dignity in it.
 
 But the corporation's actions have forced several Vellakkal residents to defecate in the open, including Jayalakshmi. The corporation locked the lone toilet building the entire community depended on and has not bothered to re-open it for a year, residents said. “There are more than 700 families living in the settlements here. Most households do not have toilets and so we used this building (toilet),” she said.
 
 A status check form stuck to the door of the locked toilet shows that a corporation sanitary supervisor had checked a box against the date August 13, 2017 indicating the last day the toilet was operational.
 
 “But they had locked it much before (the date). One corporation officer would come, tick the form and leave without opening the toilet,” said T Selvam, a resident of the locality. When TOI asked why the locals did not remonstrate with the officer for keeping the toilet locked, Selvam claimed that their pleas fell on deaf ears.
 
 M Bhagavathy Ammal, a 65-year-old resident, told TOI that women in the locality went to Avaniapuram and Perungudi tanks to defecate. Adjacent to the central lane in Manthaiyamman Koil street is a plot of private land which was also frequented by women early morning. “Recently, the plot owners put up thorny bushes to prevent us from using their land for defecation,” Jayalakshmi said. RTI activist K Hakkim observed that the rush to start work on smart cities project has diverted the attention of Madurai Corporation. “If we want to be called smart city, we must first be prepared in all levels to lift ourselves to that status,” he said. Hakkim said that the corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar had taken significant steps to tackle open defecation problem. Commissioner Sekhar told TOI that the Vellakkal situation would be investigated. 
 
 
