Jaipur: Chaos prevailed in assembly when Jalore MLA   received a call from   that she had been tested positive for swine flu on Tuesday afternoon. 

 After she moved out of the assembly, other members of the House also demanded screening for the disease. 
 
 In the House, the assembly members expressed solidarity with her but at the same time they flayed the irresponsible behaviour of her of exposing others to swine flu virus.
 
 Congress MLA Govind Singh Dotasara raised his voice demanding screening for swine flu of the members. However, health minister Kalicharan Saraf assured the members that screening will be done of those willing to undergo the test. 
 
 Even though she was a suspected case of swine flu, she attended the ongoing assembly sessions leaving other members of the assembly at risk of getting infected with the virus. 
 
 In August last year, a   MLA from Mandalgarh in Rajasthan's Bhilwara district, Kirti Kumari had died of swine flu. 
 
 Meghwal’s swab sample was taken on Monday as she had complaint of cough and sore throat. She was tested positive for the disease. 
 
 According to the health department authorities, Meghwal is staying at her Jaipur residence in   to attend ongoing assembly session. She came to Jaipur on February 2 from Jalore. On February 6, her mother in law was admitted to a private hospital in the city for her treatment who was suffering from some disease. She was discharged from the hospital on February 8. Meghwal had gone to meet her mother-in-law in the private hospital on February 8, where a swine flu patient was also undergoing treatment. Health authorities suspected that she might get the infection from the hospital. 
 
 However, on February 19, Meghwal had gone along with her acquaintance to get her tested for swine flu. At that time, she also decided to get her testing done for swine flu as she was also suffering from cough and sore throat. Her test report showed that she had been infected with swine flu.
 
 Health department officials said that they have provided her 20 capsules of Tamiflu of 75 mg along with cefixime 200 mg along with other medicines. 
 
 Besides, the health authorities have also administered Tamiflu syrup to Meghwal’s 15-month-old daughter, who is healthy. Besides, the authorities also administered Tamiflu to three other persons staying with her along with her maid servant. 
 
 Officials said that they have conducted survey in houses in her neighbourhood where no such suspected case of swine flu was found. 
 
 
