Madurai: With just a day left for S Revwathy, dean-cum-special officer of   (Karur) to retire from service, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday reserved its order on a batch of pleas that pertains to her promotion to the post of the state’s director of medical education (DME). 

 A division bench headed by justice T S Sivagnanam heard the cases including a contempt plea and another filed by the dean of Government Medical College (Thiruvarur), A L Meenakshi Sundaram against the appointment of dean of Government Medical College (Coimbatore), A   as DME. 
 
 The petitioners’ counsels told the bench that the single judge had on September 20 last set aside a government order appointing Edwin Joe as DME.
 
 When appeals were preferred against the single judge order, the division bench also set aside the government order by observing that the government positively recommended Edwin Joe to the post of DME and directed the state to consider the promotion issue afresh. But, the government did not obey the court order in spirit. It had allowed him (Edwin Joe) to continue in the post, even after the court order. After the issue was taken to the court, the government relieved him from the post. 
 
 Meanwhile the government went to the Supreme Court against the high court order, but was not interested in continuing the case. It withdrew its case by saying that it did not want to press the case. Now, it appointed the same person (Edwin Joe) as DME. How could it appoint him, when the court had already quashed his appointment? the counsels asked. 
 
 Filing the counter-affidavit of health secretary  , the additional advocate general told the court that the government again examined the merit and ability of the five medical officers in the light of the orders of the court and found that Edwin Joe is having more merit and ability. The orders passed by the court were fully complied with, the   said. 
 
 After hearing concerned sides, the court reserved its order. 
 
 
