BAINA: Any eccentric behaviour will not prove beneficial for Goa or the country, Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping   said on Tuesday in Goa, hinting at the opposition to river nationalisation and expansion of coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT). 

 “Goa’s MLAs, ministers, bureaucracy will have to be more positive in their thinking. You are taking one-and-a-half years to complete such small jobs. The one working on the project is given so many shocks that he leaves the project and runs off. I am very frank and won’t hesitate to say this. I like people who get things done. Do not worry about this media. It is their job to write. Don’t be afraid to take decisions. If your conscience permits it do it, or else don’t do it,” said Gadkari, who was in Goa to inaugurate the inland ferry terminal at Baina . 
 
 On the central government’s plans for Goa under the river nationalisation project,   said the work for Zuari and Mandovi rivers has already been approved and all that remains is the signing of the agreement. 
 
 “River nationalisation does not mean we want to take over any of state rivers. We only want to improve the rivers and they will continue to be with their states. Some states are giving us a lot of trouble due to some misunderstandings. We want to spend Rs 2,000 crore for you. Because of the misunderstandings you’ll are unable to get the money and spend it. If we increase use of waterways, pollution will go down,” said Gadkari, adding that an attitude of ‘shut down this and shut that down’ will lead to a shut down of the economy, leading to no solution to the problem of unemployment. 
 
 The minister said if the people of Goa do not want some of the central government projects in the state, the investment will be made in neighbouring Maharashtra instead. “Ecology and environment is the highest priority, at the same time we should think about the poor people who need to be provided with employment. Any eccentric thinking is not good for the country, neither for society,” he said.
 
 Gadkari said that the four pillars of democracy, which includes media, should work by respecting one another and without interfering in the other’s work, and only then India’s democracy can be successful.
 
 Making a reference to coal handling expansion at MPT, Gadkari said, “Goa port has incurred losses of Rs 25 crore this year. You need to decide if you want to run the port or not. Shut this, shut that, how will we be able to give salaries for free. If this continues we won’t be able to run the port. We want to keep employment. Goa’s political leadership, bureaucracy, media, NGOs and public need to work in one direction.”
 
 Several state BJP leaders were present including Union minister Shripad Naik, BJP state president  , state urban development minister Francis D’Souza, panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho, MLAs   and  , and MP Narendra Sawaikar.
 
 
