CHANDIGARH: The boundary wall of a   at Sector 45 has become a nuisance for the   of Burail village, who have been complaining about unsanitary conditions, mess, and construction debris spread over there for a long time. 

 The boundary wall, that is situated right opposite the Keshupura Residential Complex, next to Burail village, has been left neglected for a very long time. As a result, it has become a haven for garbage, debris and urinal discharge by countless people from the neighbourhood and visitors as well. 
 
 The boundary, which is adjoined to a pavement running parallel to the road, starts from the edge of the residential park, which is currently under maintenance for benches, swings and others and stretches to the end of the road, also merging with the boundary wall of an Anganwari Creche located right next to the park, which has been bearing the brunt of this civic apathy. 
 
 “We have been witness to this place going from bad to worse. Can anyone believe that a few years ago, there were hardly any garbage and piles of debris over here? The garbage includes plastic and domestic waste, which is strewn all around by residents themselves,” said  , a nearby resident. 
 
 The filth accumulated at the location has been a point of consternation for children and the Anganwari caretakers associated with the creche too. They have raised the issue with the authorities, but to no avail. A female resident, who leaves her two sons in the creche sometimes, while speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity said, “The swings in the creche are towards the backyard of the place, which means that they are so close to the boundary wall of the place too, which is always stinking of urine, an unhealthy sight for the kids.” 
 
 However, in a bid to discourage people from further littering the pavement area near the boundary wall, rows of saplings were sown in the area by nearby residents and the MC, but unfortunately, only a few of those plants have managed to survive, leaving the place exposed to civic abuse. 
 
 “This place has always been like this. The saplings were also planted here, but many of them have died due to lack of care,” said,  , a nearby resident. Attempts to contact Dr P S Bhatti, MOH, in-charge, department of public health, MC, came a cropper as he could not be reached on his mobile phone. 
 
