BHOPAL: After scanning records for months,   ( ) has made a headway in a multi-crore scam in grants that schools get for admission of poor kids under   (RTE) quota.

 The investigating agency has drawn up a list of 83 schools of Bhopal for their involvement in the fund scam, sources said.
 
 The list, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions 83 private schools, including institutes like Jawahar Lal Nehru School, Campion school Bhopal, Ideal Convent,   High School, Life Convent School, Ram Vidhya Mandir and  .
 
 The EOW has sought all information, including bank reports, ledger books and transactions details from the schools.
 
 “In context of probe, which is underway by EOW regarding crores of fraud in RTE Scheme and making a huge financial loss to the state government, all the mentioned 83 schools shall provide information to EOW at the earliest,” reads a letter sent to school education department by EOW.
 
 The 83 schools are under the EOW scanner for allegedly siphoning off grants in connivance with school education officials in 2015-2016. The EOW is still in the process of seeking more information and scrutinising it.
 
 A financial fraud of over Rs 19 crore has allegedly been made by former district project coordinator’s (DPC) Samar Singh Rathore with help of more than 100 nodal officers as reported by TOI in a series of reports.
 
 When contacted, EOW SP   said the agency is still investigating the matter. Some schools have not yet provided details as demanded by the agency.
 
 “Some schools provided the information. It needs to be verified and some have not provided any information so far. We cannot comment unless the probe is over,” he said.
 
 The state EOW registered a case against administrative officials, including a district programme convener in connection with an unauthorised payment to private schools under the RTE scheme. Once we get evidence, an FIR would be lodged against all culprits, he said.
 
 An official dealing with the RTE, on condition of anonymity, told a complaint was lodged with the school education department on Sunday that some low-rung officials looking into account books made an offer to the schools to hush up the matter for monetary gains. “A complaint was received in which the complainant alleged private schools were made an offer to get a clean chit in exchange for money,” he said. 
 
 
