GREATER NOIDA: An 18-year-old girl has stopped going to school since 2014 and her marriage has been called off because of alleged threats by a village youth who has been harassing her for the past four years.

 The girl’s family alleged that she had been once molested by the youth, who studied with her in the same school and threatened to throw acid on her if she married anybody other than him. Feared of attacks on the way to school, the girl quit studies.
 
 The girl and her mother met the circle officer of  , Anit Kumar, on Tuesday and alleged that the police case they had lodged in November last year had made little headway. 
 
 The complaint was lodged at   III police station against  , the 24-year-old youth, after he allegedly threatened to kill the person who was supposed to marry the girl.
 
 An FIR was lodged against the youth under IPC sections 354 A (sexual harassment), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on December 22 after the girl recorded her statement in front of a magistrate under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code .
 
 Sources said the youth, the fourth of seven brothers, belonged to a relatively well-to-do family who wielded considerable influence in the village. The family is believed to have a lot of land which they have given to sharecroppers.
 
 The police said the girl’s family had lodged another complaint earlier in 2015 but withdrew it after a few months on being reportedly advised by the village seniors.
 
 The second complaint by the girl in November last year mentioned: “He would ask me to talk to him regularly. My parents did not allow me to continue with my studies after Class X and I stopped going to school since 2014. I stayed at home. Once, he entered my house and threatened to kill me in case I did not marry him.”
 
 A copy of the complaint is with TOI. Frustrated with the repeated threats and harassment, the girl’s parents girl sent her to a relative’s place in the city but she returned in February 2015, the complaint said.
 
 “As soon as I returned, the harassment resumed. My family and I left our house again and went to stay with our relatives. My parents fixed my marriage in November last year but he went to the groom’s house and threatened him with dire consequences in case he married me. The wedding was called off from their side,” she said.
 
 It was after the marriage was called off that the girl lodged the second complaint last year. The family alleged that the youth continued to threaten and harass them despite the complaint.
 
 “They are seven brothers and even they tease me whenever I step out of home,” the girl, who has eight siblings, said.
 
 The girl’s family is engaged in milk trade. Her mother said: “The youth has already ensured that my daughter isn’t married off to anyone else. It seems we will have to leave the village again.”
 
 The girl had met SP (rural)   a fortnight ago and the officer apparently asked her to lodge a fresh complaint so that the youth can be booked under the Goondas Act. “The girl’s family had compromised in 2015 and withdrew their complaint. We had told them to remain firm. Had they done so, things would have been different today. I have asked the SHO to take a fresh application from them and invoke the Goonda Act against the accused so that he can be evicted from the district,” the SP said.
 
 The girl’s mother said they had withdrawn the complaint after the village seniors advised them to do so and asked them to return home. “I am not someone who will get scared. It’s just the helplessness of the situation,” the girl’s mother said.
 
 
