Ludhiana: At 6.30am, when temperature in Ludhiana is a biting 9°C, a man reaches Government Primary School, Bhamiya Khurd, along with a group of enthusiastic students, evey day to spruce up classrooms, corridors, and the school’s ground for the day ahead.

 In a day and age where the state government has struggled to maintain its schools, this man, with slightly greying hair, makes this extra effort to make the school stand out from the rest. He is none other than Sukh Ram (55), the head teacher.
 
 For Ram and his group of students, the cleaning job is not something reserved for a special occasion, but a daily practice. He does not stop at cleaning the school’s premises, and follows it up with teaching yoga to students and playing with them before classes start. “Once the school closes, I ensure students take part in extra-curricular activities and sports training,” he said.
 
 A decade ago, this school was like any other, with broken benches, dirty corridors, and stinking toilets. In 2008, when Sukh Ram was promoted as its head teacher, he was disheartened with the condition of school. However, instead of relying on help from the state government, Ram took it upon himself to transform the school.
 
 Over these years, Ram has raised about Rs 12 lakh, including Rs 2 lakh from his own pocket, to renovate the school which now has artistic walls, new toilets, clean drinking water, and a shed for students to have midday meal.
 
 For his work and dedication towards the school, Ram was awarded by the state government in 2014. “When I joined,students were not regular and even results were not good. I decided to take the initiative for transforming the school. For this, I approached some people in the village and NRIs. They agreed to help and kept providing funds, with which the building was renovated, and ramps and toilets built,” he said.
 
 Ram said once the school started looking good, students became regular. “Then, I focused on their performance in academics and co-curricular activities,” he said.
 
 The school has an impressive pass percentage of 97%. Besides, the kabaddi team of the school has won the state championship, while students have also bagged several prizes in academic competitions.
 
 A student of Class V, Khushboo Kumari, said she and her classmates came to clean up the school on their own accord. “I enjoy coming to school, watering plants, and doing yoga. Even my family does not object to it,” she said.
 
 Another student of Class V, Arjun Sing, said he thoroughly enjoyed coming to school. “It is no longer just about studies, but everything.”
 
 For Ram, there’s one target left: making the schools a model one by way of infrastructure, academics and co-curricular activities.
 
 Refused promotion
 
 In 2017, Sukh Ram was promoted to the post of centre head teacher. However, he refused to take the promotion as he would have had to shift to another school. “I feel I still have to do a lot more for this school and its students. I couldn’t leave them midway,” he said.
 
 Pays 2 teachers and watchman 
 
 The head teacher of Government Primary School, Bhamiya Khurd, Sukh Ram, said when he joined, there were six teachers in the school, but later three teachers were promoted and shifted to other schools. “Now there is one teacher apart from me. I have hired two contractual teachers and am paying them from my own pocket,” he said. Ram has hired a watchman to pay from his pocket every month.
 
 THEIR SCHEDULE
 
 In summer, school opens at 5.30am and at 6.30am in winter. While the head teacher cleans up the premises, children help in gardening. This is followed by a yoga class, after which patriotic songs are played in school
 
 After this, students study their favorite subject for 30 minutes, in which some students do drawing
 
 Then, students and teacher play in the ground for one hour
 
 After routine classes, students practise handwriting and take part in extra-curricular activities, following by a sports period
 
 
