NEW DELHI: After admitting to ball-tampering during the third Test against South Africa on Saturday, Australia skipper Steve Smith - during the following press conference - had stated that ‘ this is the first time it has happened’; but video footage from the most recent Ashes series, that Australia won 4-0, may suggest otherwise. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A video, from a CCTV camera, from the fifth Test match of the series played in Sydney shows   putting a spoonful of sugar in his pocket while the players were getting ready to go on to the ground. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Social media was abuzz with the footage and various theories have started to float that suggest Bancroft might have used the sugar in the same manner as he used the granules from the rough patches on the wicket in Newlands and try to change the ball condition. 
 
 
 
 
 On Saturday, Smith had said that he was embarrassed and took responsibility for the actions of his side and detailed an orchestrated effort from the team's "leadership group" to use sticky tape to pick up hard granules from the pitch and rub these against the ball to try to alter its condition and get it to swing.
 
 The fallout of the controversy led to Smith and vice captain David Warner standing down from their respective roles for the reminder of the third Test which Australia eventually lost. Wicketkeeper   stood in as captain as Cricket Australia chief executive James Sutherland promised an urgent and full investigation into one of the most embarrassing moments for Australian sport.
 
 
 Smith has been banned for one game while Bancroft, the man tasked with doing the tampering, has been fined 75% of his match fee and was handed three disciplinary demerit points by the ICC. 
 
 The scandal brought back memories of Smith’s “brain fade” episode during Australia’s tour of India last year. The captain had illegally sought the help of his dressing room on whether to review an on-field umpire’s decision.
 
 Two senior CA officials — head of integrity Iain Roy and high-performance manager Pat Howard — were urgently dispatched to South Africa to lead the investigation. “All Australians, like us, want answers and we will keep you updated on our findings as a matter of priority,” Sutherland said, addressing his statement in parts to a cricket-mad Australian public shocked by the admission to cheating from their team.
 
 
