MANALI: Nearly a dozen gram panchayats in   sub-division of Kullu district have come under scanner for embezzlement in funds. Panchayats bought solar street lights putting aside rules and even forged bills. The district administration is all set to suspend some panchayat secretaries and pradhans.

 Already, Kullu deputy commissioner has suspended secretary of   panchayat while preparations are to suspend the pradhan as well. The panchayat had purchased solar lights for Rs 17.42 lakh by making forged documents. Similarly, Hallan-2 panchayat purchased solar lights for Rs 11 lakh and higher officials may suspend both secretary and pradhan here. Many other panchayats including Vashisht, Prini, Shaleen and Shanag are also charged with embezzlement in funds in similar way.
 
 Block development officer (BDO)   said panchayats cannot spend such huge amounts without floating tenders. “Panchayats have made forged papers of Him-Urja, the government agency that supplies solar lights. They have bills with forge signature of   official. Panchayats have bought lights from private firms. Katrain panchayat bought it from Mandi-based private firm Him Power India. We are taking strict actions against the panchayats involved in this fraud. Both secretaries and pradhans will be suspended,” he said.
 
 What surprised officials the most was the transportation bill of solar lights to bring them from   in   to Katrain. The transportation bill to cover distance of just 100km by one vehicle was shown Rs 1.12 lakh.   said he was himself checking all the bills and documents and there is possibility that more panchayats could be involved in fraud.
 
 Himachal government is stressing on illuminating all the villages with help of solar street lights. The lights are being provided to the villages in phasewise manner under various schemes. The villagers have been raising finger at the scheme as panchayat representatives have been given liberty to establish light anywhere in the village. People generally allege that panchayat representatives mostly establish lights close to their or their relatives’ houses and busy streets remain in darkness.
 
 
