This Easter in Mollywood turned out to be similar to the Super Bowl Sunday in the US, with filmmakers choosing the festive season to release a series of songs, first looks and also trailers of some much-awaited films. We give you the roundup of the top 7 treats from Malayalam cinema this weekend.

 
 
 Prithviraj’s Ranam has been a much-awaited film and the makers unveiled the first song on Easter. The title track, composed by Jakes Bejoy, features Tamil, English and Malayalam lines and has a contemporary zing to the music. The song also encapsulates what Nirmal Sahadev’s directorial is all about
 
 
 
 
 The latest poster of Kammarsambhavam reveals Siddharth’s character Othenan Nambiar in full-on action mode in what looks like atop a train. The big-budget film has Dileep playing the titular character Kammaran with   in an equally-important role.
 
 
 
 
 
 Actor-turned-director’s Mrudul Nair’s  , which is set to hit theatres in May, features a host of actors led by  . The movie’s first song Ore Nila Ore Veyil is composed by Rahul Raj and written by Harinaryanan. The duo were behind the hits Lailakame and Hemanthamen. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 The makers of Biju Menon’s upcoming action thriller Padayottam revealed the actor’s look and the character name in its first poster. Biju Menon, who has short cropped hair and is clad in a red lungi, boasts a ‘katta mass’ look as Chenkal Raghu in the film, directed by Rafeek Ibrahim. 
 
 
 
 Debutant director Sharrath Sandith’s first venture Parole is eagerly awaited with many from the industry saying that the film will offer glimpse to the old-Mammootty family dramas. The Parole Kaalam track, sung by Aristo Suresh, shows visuals of Mammootty’s character Sakhavu Alex leaving prison of parole and how his fellow inmates are celebrating his departure.
 
 
 
 
 
 The first poster from Mammootty's Uncle was released on Easter and the megastar looks slick as ever in a golfer cap, scarf and a jacket. The movie, directed by debutant Girish Damodar, also has Asha Sharath and Karthika Muralidharan in pivotal roles.
 
 
 Filmmaker Jubith Namradath’s debut venture Aadhaasam is a socio-political satire and the movie’s trailer showcases those aspects. With State Award winners such as Rima Kallingal, Suraj Venjaramoodu, Alencier Ley Lopez and Indrans, the film set extensively inside a bus promises to be a good ride.
 
 
 
 
