CHANDIGARH: If you drive down the   road from Sector 39 to the end of Sector 47, as soon as you begin to cross Sector 41, mountains of construction debris will start to appear in the corner of your left eye. The waste material lies dumped for almost a kilometre along this south-end road.

 The pavement running parallel to the dividing road has begun to look like a dumping ground. An overwhelming proportion of construction debris lines the entire roadside from the beginning of Sector 41 to the end of Sector 42, ending just before the Sector 42-43 roundabout. The volume of the debris is a matter of shame for the city, say the people who live nearby. They say the waste has contributed to the declining image of City Beautiful, where all roadsides used to be covered with trees once.
 
 Now small and large mountains of construction debris have occupied the pavement and caused it to cave in or be awash with stones, mud, fallen branches, and other natural pollutants. 
 
 Apart from the construction residue dumped on the spot by scores of labourers from the nearby construction sites over several months, the other kind of garbage has also multiplied. Adding to the kilometre-long pavement for debris is pools of filth accumulated from the house all around.
 
 “I don’t know what kind of people come here and dump their garbage but I am sure they must be doing it at night, when no one’s looking,” said  , a mechanic working near the Sector-42 petrol-filling station, the entrance to which is plugged with a mountain of debris.
 
 Apart from domestic waste such as vegetable residue and fruit peels, the area is infested with diverse forms of toilet waste, plastic clutter, ceramic residue, broken commodes, and smashed bathroom tiles. “I don't know since when this dumping along a clean and beautiful road became permitted. This is polluting our surroundings,” said  , a passerby. Charred plastic and metal compounds were also found at various spots near the debris. Mechanic Jitendra further said: “A few days ago, a JCB (earth moving machine) was running over the pavement to smoothen it. I think they are construction a second slip road on this spot.”
 
 When TOI tried contacting municipal corporation medical officer (health) P S Bhatti, he didn’t answer his telephone.
 
 
