NAGPUR: Eleven private players, including a Nagpur-based company, have responded to a request for proposal ( ) to make seven types of ammunition for the  . The items have always either been produced at the ordnance factories, or imported. The value of the deal is pegged at more than Rs19,000 crore after taking into account the period of supply, which is spread over 10 years.

 
 
  
 This is the first time domestic private manufacturers are being roped in to make the items. The Nagpur company which has taken part in the bidding process is Economic Explosives Limited, a 100% subsidiary of Solar Industries, headed by Satyaranayan Nuwal. Other companies in the fray include Mahindra Defence Systems, Bharat Electronics Limited, Bharat Forge, and Himachal Futuristic Communications Limited (HFCL). Some big players, including Reliance Defence and Tatas, had also evinced interest at the pre-bid stage but have not taken part in the bidding itself.
 
 The items include shells of 30mm and 40mm calibre, bimodular charge systems, 122mm rockets, and electronic fuses for artillery shells. In the first plan, 125mm tank ammunition was also included in the list, but dropped later. The shells named in the list are being made by the ordnance factories, but the fuses and BMCS are imported.
 
 The RFP was issued in March 2017 and the bids were finally called after nine extensions to the date of submission.
 
 During the first pre-bid meeting, prospective bidders wanted the earnest money deposit (EMD) to be reduced. Certain other modifications related to the specifications of the items were also made. “After that, the dates were simply extended without giving a reason in the communications,” said a source.
 
 Now, finally the technical bids have been opened. The parties will have to prove their products through trials, after which financial bids will be considered, the source said.
 
 This is the first major initiative to rope in the private sector into defence production. This will not only lead to import substitution but also pave the way for the private sector to make second generation ammunition. There has been a perpetual shortage of certain items, which may not be faced after this.
 
 There have been times when the country had to go hunting for ammunition at times of critical need. If the private entities also manufacture, the deficit may not be there, said Lt General (retd) Ravi Thodge, former Master General Ordnance (MGO).
 
 Thodge, however, expressed concern over the delay in the process. “The process began in 2015 and finally the bids have been opened in 2018,” he said. Thodge also questioned the decision to drop 125mm FSAPDS tank ammunition.
 
 Responding to TOI’s query regarding this, current MGO Lt General Ramrao Nimborkar said the armoured corps, which is the user, wanted an ammunition of higher piercing capacity, due to which the item was dropped in the current list.
 
 
