Friday’s incident where two students rammed an oddly placed Metro barricade at   station is a wake-up call for the Metro team and its contractors who have not only carelessly placed barricades in the middle of the road but are also not bothered about problems commuters face daily on the Me Since the deadline for completion of Metro’s first cor from Chaudhary Charan gh Airport to Munshipul crossing is scheduled fo early 2019, the Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC) has sped up work on most of arteries of the city, causing traffic chaos and diversions at many places.

 But amid this fast co struction on Faizabad R University Road, Station MG Marg and near Vidh wan, there are many iss Lucknow’s commuters are daily facing. The most important being unevenly aligned barricades around construction sites. TOI took stock of the situation on Saturday to find out oddly placed barricades on roads.
 
 
 While  , one of the busiest highways seeing traffic coming from within the city as well as nearby towns, has abundant examples of the contractor’s laxity, even the intra-city roads which form approach routes to educational, commercial and institutional areas are showing erratically placed barricades.
 
 From Polytechnic crossing to  , the barricades were found tilted toward the roads at many places. At some places, they were even blocking traffic.
 
 Ashish Singh, a resident of Khurramnagar, said, “The barricades have left very little space for us to drive in. Now, if they don’t align them in a straight line, the commuters are bound to hit the barricade at some place or the other.”
 
  of Mahanagar said, “Commuters need to be extra cautious while driving along the Metro route. If you get distracted for even a second, the barricades can cause you much damage. LMRC has not even deployed enough marshals to guide traffic in congested areas.”
 
 From IT crossing to Hanuman Setu and then from KD Singh Babu Stadium to Hazratganj, the route sees massive traffic. While barricading near Lucknow University frequently brings traffic to a halt for hours, the diversions have made it worse. It is because of the carelessly aligned barricades and abrupt diversions that a class XII student hit the barricade near the university and succumbed to injuries in July last year.
 
 Vineet  , a shopkeeper, said, “I see bikers driving very close to the walls of barricades because of jams. How can one concentrate on driving if he has to see alignment of barricades?”
 
 At some places, the barricades even lay fallen for days but the team did not remove them. Near Badshahnagar, the outer rusted wall of the barricade was hanging in the air.
 
 Richa Agarwal, a commuter, said, “Is our life so insignificant to them? How can LMRC just do anything in the name of construction? They never inform us before about any diversion. I waste almost one hour daily commuting along Parivartan crossing as they have now extended diversion up to Hazratganj main market. The barricades pop out suddenly in between and most of us get stuck at these points.”
 
