Forty eight hours before the state goes to polls, the   and its youth wing,  , have released an advertisement, stating “Lingayat hita kagi kaaidavarige namma matha” (Our vote is for those who have protected the interests of  ), in a not-so-veiled appeal to reject the BJP and choose Congress.

 
 This came even as BJP president   spoke of the minority tag to Lingayats and   (believers of Basava Tattva) having “zero impact” on the party’s traditional vote bank. The Lingayat forum’s advertisement in English and Kannada media, however, caused a flutter within the BJP and outside.
 
 The advertisement gives a detailed picture of the Lingayat struggle and points fingers at Shah, RSS and BJP for being the real culprits in dividing Lingayats and funding the Veerashaiva sub-sect to create a rift within the community.
 
 According to members of the Mahasabha, the prime reason for issuing the advertisement was the barrage of attacks against the community and the Congress for dividing the Hindu religion.
 
 “The forum was livid when the PM compared the emotions of 4 crore Lingayats to a ‘lollipop’. However, we decided to wait and consider it an error. But the PM went on a tirade against the minority tag given to Lingayats even at his last rally in Bidar. It was the final straw and we decided to release the advertisement 
  night,” said an office-bearer of the Mahasabha.
 
 However, the timing of the ad has led to speculation that it has the fingerprints of two senior Congress ministers who spearheaded the Lingayat movement.
 
 It is said the Congress is hoping to “exploit” the advertisement to its advantage by swaying at least 1-2% of Lingayat votes in the North Karnataka districts of Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Dharwad.
 
 Incidentally, the three districts have CM Siddaramaiah (Badami), water resources minister M B Patil (Bableshwar) and mines minister Vinay Kulkarni (Dharwad) in the electoral fray.
 
 Mahasabha convener S M Jamdaar confirmed that the newspaper advertisement was placed by the forum and its youth wing. It is said another set of 15 questions and points is already being circulated in social media, especially on WhatsApp groups, asking the community to move away from the BJP.
 
 Meanwhile, in a separate development, Basava Peetha pontiff Mata Mahadevi issued a video on social media, openly asking Lingayats to vote for Congress.
 
 
 
