TRICHY: The ever-busy   central bus stand, which serves as a transportation hub for the central districts, was deserted on Friday with employees of the   (TNSTC) refusing to operate the fleets as party of their statewide agitation seeking wage revision. The bus terminus mainly saw private and omni bus services besides a few   buses operating despite stiff opposition from protesting transport workers. 

 Strategically located in the central part of the state, Trichy has bus connectivity to almost all districts of the state. The 4.5-acre bus stand has as many as five platforms and about six dozen bays catering to 3,750 services every day. At least 2 lakh passengers use the terminus a day to reach their destinations. The protesting unions of transport workers had demanded a wage hike in 2.57 multiplication factor (basic pay multiplied by 2.57), while the government had agreed only to a hike in 2.44 multiplication factor. Owing to the deadlock, transport workers had resorted to the protest since Thursday night with mofussil and city buses of TNSTC remaining off the roads. Except for the ruling AIADMK-backed  , a majority of the trade unions including AITUC, CITU and   joined the protest. This prompted the Trichy division to even try to operate the grounded fleets with the help of part-time drivers and conductors whose services were sought through display boards.
 
 G Karthikeyan, a representative of AITUC, Trichy said, “Several of our retired colleagues are yet to get their full retirement benefits. No other department or corporation employee of the state government faces the kind of discrepancy that we face in settlement of wages we deserve. Our protest is completely out of frustration and against official apathy.” Only 69 of the 379 bus services operated from as many as five major depots in the city on Friday morning. 
 
 As only 16 per cent of the government buses operated on Friday, private buses had a field day in doing business at the Trichy central bus stand. Most of the TNSTC buses were parked on the five depots across the city while TNSTC desperately looked for part-time drivers and conductors. “In all, 16-18 part-time drivers and conductors have approached the five depots in the city. Their driving skills and physical fitness were tested before permitting them to operate the fleets,” a TNSTC official added. These part-timers were offered Rs 450 per shift. 
 
 As the trade union members were thronging the bus depots to prevent the buses from plying, a huge posse of police was stationed at the five depots across the city. In fact, a few vehicles with AIADMK flags mounted on them were also found inside the depots lobbying hard for the transport employees to operate the fleets. Part-time drivers found eligible to drive were subsequently assisted by police to operate the grounded fleets. Though there appears to be no headway in the ongoing deadlock between transport workers and the government, senior TNSTC officials said that they were expecting the situation to return to normal gradually.
 
 
