From canal to canal in Fort Kochi, Vipin Dhanurdharan travels with his big steel pot with a rope attached to it. 

 The water bodies, once glorious travel routes, are now sore sights filled with filth. Vipin lowers the pot into each of them, collecting the stinking water. Watching the ill-fated urn suck it all in, through the artiste’s video on display at Edappally, one can’t help wondering the whys and hows of the pathetic state of water bodies, and even ponder about how we can help the situation.
 
 Titled  , the video installation by the 28-year-old artiste is a 36-minute-long work, which was put together for Mattancherry, the expo that was recently held in Kochi. The artiste screened it again in Kochi, on World Water Day, April 22.
 
 “Petrichor refers to the smell of the soil that emerges after the first rain,” Vipin says. But nowhere in the video do you get to experience it and the artiste has used the name to take us back to that beautiful aroma that the purest form of water, rain, can create when it meets earth. After watching the video, the artiste makes the viewer wonder if all this would be a mere memory, due to the alarming water pollution. 
 
 “I don’t know whether there is any solution for this currently. But that doesn’t mean we can’t discuss it. This is not just the story of Fort Kochi or Mattancherry. They are just the samples,” says Vipin, who hails from Kollam. He collected the filthy water from about 30 to 35 canals and in the video, you can see inquisitive eyes following him every time his pot goes down to a canal. “I loved interacting with the local crowd, who were curious about my intention. I just told them it’s for a documentary.”
 
 Vipin says he wasn’t disgusted as he collected the water. “It was the bigger picture and message that dominated my mind, so, the exercise felt meditative. The water had all kinds of waste, and people said even the colour of these canals change from time to time. Funnily enough, even drinking water pipes run alongside them. Sometimes, the canal water goes above them and in case of even the slightest leak, this filthy water can get into it,” he says.
 
 How great would it be if they were clean? he asks. “There was a time when these canals had big boats with goods rowing through them, with godowns and people working on the sidelines. There was movement in the waters and they were an integral part of the lives here, which meant they were well-maintained.”
 He does not want to blame the people who live around these bodies for their present condition. “Their living spaces are considerably small and often, there aren’t many vents or better waste management mechanisms in place for them to turn to. In that situation, what would these commoners do? They are quite used to the stink and it’s part of their life now. In fact, my main concern behind this work is the life of these people.”
 
