HUBBALLI/BENGALURU: Residents of Vajpayee Nagar on Monday thrashed a woman and her two daughters for allegedly kidnapping a nine-month-old baby to practice  .   police arrested Shantamma and her two daughters, aged 16 and 18, after registering a case.

 Though the accused told police that they took the baby after permission from his parents, Manjunath Barker and Rekha alleged that the woman kidnapped the infant and took him to Bengaluru where he was subjected to black magic. The infant sustained injuries to his neck due to the practice of black magic, the couple alleged in a police complaint.
 
 The couple, which has three children, shifted to the locality five months ago. The accused Shantamma and her two daughters got close to the couple and allegedly kidnapped the boy on April 29. After a tip-off, the parents rushed to Bengaluru and rescued the infant. They also brought the accused to the locality.
 
 Police said that the accused presented another version, stating that they loved the infant and took him out of affection to Shiggaon for a ceremony after permission from the parents. However, a truck driver close to Shantamma asked the woman and her daughters to accompany him to Bengaluru.
 
 The infant was injured after the truck driver applied brakes on the way to Bengaluru, the accused said, adding that they admitted the boy to a hospital in Bengaluru and informed his parents.
 
 Fake video of child-lifters spreads panic in six dists
 
 A   video peddling fear of out-of-state children thieves has several villagers spread across at least six districts on the vigil. There are reports of some of these vigilantes thrashing suspected child-lifters, who were later identified as beggars, homeless, or mentally challenged.
 
 In villages, lathi-weilding men are seen taking turns to guard their lanes at night, even as police have claimed the video, originally circulated in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, to be fake. Trouble began after a video showing children abducted by ‘child-lifters’ being killed and their parts chopped reached cellphones of locals. In the past two weeks, the same video is being circulated in Raichur, Yadgiri, Koppal, Sindagi and Chikkaballapur districts.
 
 On May 16, police in Raichur received information that a mob was beating up a woman on suspicion that she belonged to a gang of children thieves. But it was later concluded that the victim was mentally challenged and did not belong to any gang. Six men have been arrested in connection with the case.
 
 Susmita Bellam, a resident of Raichur, claimed maids from other states are fearing for their life. “Some of them don’t know Kannada and they are worried to even walk on the streets as they won’t know how to respond if someone questions them,” she said.
 
 
