HYDERABAD: The state government has come up with a mega plan to improve the groundwater table in Hyderabad.

 
 Faced with criticism for its alleged inaction in improving the groundwater table, the government this year introduced a novel programme to ensure that there’s no depletion in the water table even during the summer. The new programme, Jalam Jeevam, is aimed at encouraging the common man to harvest every drop of water through rainwater harvesting pits.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The state government has entrusted the responsibility of implementation of Jalam Jeevam to Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board ( ),   (HMRL), Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ),  , groundwater department and the police department. The new programme would be implemented before the onset of the monsoon.
 
 "Inspired by state government's Jalam Jeevam initiative, nearly 3,000 requisitions were received from different Residential Welfare Associations'(RWAs) to construct RWH structures at their apartments in the city. Water board will provide technical assistance and the expenditure have to borne by the RWAs concerned. Till date, water board has completed 1,000 RWH pits and works on another 250 RWH pits are in progress,", J Satyanarayana, OSD-RWH programme in-charge, HMWS&SB told TOI.
 
 Water Board also decided to link all the RWH structures with geo-tag to monitor them. For the first time in the country geo-tag facility will be provided to RWH structures, he added. HMWSSB has sought financial assistance of ?20,000 from different banks to construct the rainwater harvesting pits. The country’s biggest rainwater harvesting theme park is also scoming up in the city. The work is going on at a brisk pace. HMWSSB has proposed to complete the theme park by June.
 
 Local military authority has also come forward to take up rainwater harvesting campaign on a largescale. The open areas on the defence premises in   and Golconda will be utilised for rainwater harvesting. Parade Ground and   will also get rainwater harvest structures.
 
 HMRL has already started construction of RWH pits at Metro rail stations and Metro rail assets.
 
