KOCHI: A group of students of the Cochin University College of Engineering Kuttanad (CUCEK) has filed a complaint with the district collector claiming that the principal forced them to consume beef.

 The incident took place on January 25 during a seminar on digital banking at the college. During the break, a group of North Indian students, who do not consume beef as per religious beliefs, was allegedly misled into eating beef cutlet.s They were allegedly told that it was vegetable cutlet.
 
 "I asked the server multiple times if it was a vegetable cutlet. However, when I took a bite, I realized that there was meat in it. Later, our Malayali friends told us that it was beef cutlet," said S  , a second-year student from  .
 
 The college principal said he had no knowledge about the food that was served at the seminar and that he holds no malice against the students.
 
 "Though the college had arranged the tea for the seminar, the bank that was organizing the seminar had brought the snacks. They brought both beef and vegetable cutlets at the event. A few students, who do not consume non-vegetarian food, accidentally ate the beef cutlet. A couple of students had raised this issue with me and I had consoled them," said   N, principal, CUCEK.
 
 But Vishwatna alleged that the principal did not take the matter seriously. "When I spoke to him, he tried to console me by saying that consuming beef wasn't a big deal here and that we had to change our thinking. I wanted him to thoroughly look into the matter," said Vishwatna.
 
 The complaint sent to   district collector T V   on Saturday allege that the principal had purposefully misled the students into eating beef as punishment for organizing procession and Saraswati puja at the college, which he had not permitted. "Angered by the fact that we successfully celebrated the festival, he targeted a first-year CSE student, Mayank Shekhar and suspended him for no obvious reasons," said the complaint.
 
 Sunilkumar, however, dismissed these allegations. "I had given them the permission to organize the puja, like previous years, during lunch break.   had also organized a protest on the same day. I told them if you want to cancel class and hold the protest, then don't conduct the puja. The next day, they held a procession. They came, with loudspeakers, to the campus around 1:30pm. I, therefore, suspended one of the students involved but allowed him to return the next day," said the principal.
 
 Anupama said, "We are looking into the matter and we have not found anything that indicates that it was a deliberate act by the principal. We will continue to look into it and action will be taken accordingly."
 
 
