PANAJI: All healthcare facilities in the state with less than ten beds will have to install   treatment  , with the new Biomedical Waste Management (amendment) Rules 2018 giving them a deadline of December 31, 2019.

 Goa’s healthcare sector generates an estimated 180 tonnes of biomedical waste per month, most of which ends up being burned or dumped clandestinely and enters the general waste collection system. For this reason, the government has proposed to set up a common facility at   in  .
 
 In the absence of a centralised facility to treat biomedical waste, an auto enclave/incinerator treats waste generated at GMC and other government  .
 
 In cases where a common biomedical waste treatment facility is not available, those with administrative control over the healthcare facility will have to set up requisite biomedical waste treatment, including incinerators, autoclaves, microwaves and shredders, prior to commencement of operations.
 
 Under the new rules, healthcare facilities will also have to phase out use of chlorinated plastic bags (excluding blood bags) and gloves by March 27, 2019.
 
 Persons having administrative control over hospitals, nursing homes, clinics, dispensaries, veterinary institutions, animal houses, pathological laboratory, blood banks, healthcare facilities and clinical establishments will also be required to provide training to their respective healthcare staff and those involved in handling biomedical waste. They are also required to maintain and update a biomedical waste management register and display the monthly record on their individual websites.
 
 All healthcare facilities are expected to report major accidents, including accidents caused by fire hazards and blasts during handling of biomedical waste, and the remedial action taken. Irrespective of the number of beds, all healthcare facilities are also expected to make their detailed annual reports available on their website within two years of the amended rules. These annual reports are also expected to be uploaded on the websites of the State and Central Pollution Control Board.
 
 
