NEW DELHI: Coinciding with the steady electoral decline of CPM, the party's membership numbers have dropped in  , the state once regarded as a communist hub. Kerala, the only state where   remains in power, is now the only one where CPM membership figures have swelled, and is likely to give   delegates an upper hand at the party congress later this month.

 
 The matter, which came up for discussion during a two-day central committee meeting that ended last week, also deliberated over CPM's political organisation report, an assessment of how the party fared on decisions taken during the 2015 party congress.
 
 Referring to an assessment of its nation-wide organisational strength, CPM general secretary   said membership in West Bengal had declined, but said the figures were "not worrisome" because the state unit had only last year implemented a fivepoint renewal rule that was decided during the Kolkata plenum in December 2015.
 
 "The West Bengal unit began stringently implementing the five-point rule on which membership is to be renewed. Since this is the first year of its implementation, the numbers have declined. They will, however, stabilise over time," Yechury said.
 
 The Kolkata plenum had noted with concern the "declining level of quality of party members", which it said had "negated the realisation of a mass revolutionary party".
 
 "What has come into being is more like a mass party without much of the revolutionary content. A large number of party members do not possess the minimum qualification for party membership. This is mainly due to defects in the recruitment process of party members, for which the responsibility lies with the party organisation," the resolution passed at the plenum had said.
 
 Urging state units to review and revamp their recruitment and renewal processes, the plenum had decided that party membership should be renewed only upon payment of membership fee and levy, following regular attendance in branch meetings, on satisfactory participation in party classes, political campaigns and in agitations and struggles, and upon becoming a member and active participant in mass front work, unless exempted by the party.
 
 The plenum also mandated that members must regularly read party organs and subscribe to them. The CPM leadership had also emphasises the need to induct more youth into the party.
 
