BENGALURU: At 6.30pm on Sunday, Jayanagar-based   Vishwanath S and Anitha found a brand new sparkling silk sari carrying a price tag of Rs 25,000 lying on a road in   4th Block.

 “The   carried no other clue, other than the price tag and the barcode. Neither was there a receipt with it nor did the price tag say anything about the shop it was from. We thought the sari might belong to a bride whose wedding is round the corner, or to someone who bought it and misplaced it and would be desperately searching for it now,” Vishwanath told TOI.
 
 To find its rightful owner, the couple waited at the spot for over 15 minutes to see if anyone turns up to claim the garment. Around 6.47pm, Vishwanath uploaded a picture of the sari on his Facebook page. The couple then enquired about the sari in nearby shops and even carried it around to nearby roads, but found none coming forward to claim it.
 
 “We even visited nearby tailors to check if anyone had placed an order to stitch a matching blouse,” Anitha said.
 
 Anitha, meanwhile, tried scanning the barcode from an app on her mobile phone. After over 30 minutes, they took the garment to a premier silk sari   in the area to check if it had been sold by them. 
 
 No sooner the showroom staffers saw the sari, they broke into a smile and said it appeared to be their product. Th shop manager scanned the barcode and confirmed that it was an yet-to-be-sold sari that had gone missing while shifting stocks from one shop to another. The showroom staff profusely thanked the couple for returning the sari before bidding them goodbye around 7.20pm.
 
 The store manager told TOI that his team was internally searching for the sari that had gone missing, when the couple came checking to find out about the garment they spotted.
 
 “We were shifting stocks from our Jayanagar showroom to our JP Nagar branch. Of the 20 saris sent, 18 were sent back from the JP Nagar centre,but we received only 17. One had gone missing and we were clueless about it. It must have fallen on the road while the saris were being transported. That was a great gesture by the couple. Their effort saved some of our jobs,” the manager said. 
 
 
