CHANDRAPUR: Villagers have fenced off a kilometre-long stretch of forest to block mining activities on the   in   tehsil of   district. The villagers, led by Janhitwadi organization, and  , are protesting the apathy of forest department and district administration towards their demand to stop destruction of forest and minor minerals by the mining company.

 The villagers claim the forest department and the mining company have not taken the consent of gram-sabhas, and hence villagers, under gram panchayat regulations, PESA Act, and Forest Rights Act. So, they have fenced a section of the hillock to stop further damage to forest and minerals, claimed their adviser Suresh  .
 
 Many villages, including Bande, Nagulwadi, Mohurli, Parsalgundi, Akra (Khurd) and Zarewada, located on the foothills of Surjagarh are on the warpath against the forest department and the mining company to save the forest on the hill. They are backed by the gram sabhas of Gattepalli, Batter, Watte Gatta, Geda, Gattepalli, Mavli, Karmpalli, Kothi, Bandvi, Tamda and Vilamgarh villages.
 
 Janhitwadi organization and Gramsabha Mahasangh of these villages had launched an indefinite sit-in agitation in front of the district collectorate at Gadchiroli, for implementation of PESA and Forest Rights Act at Surjagarh Vuriya Hill since January 5. Iron ore mining is underway by a private company in the area. Protesters have alleged that despite assurances, forest and district administration has not taken any measures to stop loss of minor minerals and forest wealth in Surjagarh area.
 
 Barsagade informed that Janhitwadi organization had filed a petition in court against the mining on Surjagarh hill, and the court had ordered status quo in the case. However, Bhamragarh DFO Bala told TOI the forest department is a party to the case, but has not received any order from the court regarding the status quo, as claimed by the protesters.
 
 However, Barsagade alleged in a communiqué sent via email that the administration has not asked the forest department or the mining company to stall work to comply with court directive. Barsagade has said that the village gram sabhas have passed resolution to save minor minerals and forests, and have informed the forest department and mining company many times. However, the company has continued to destroy the nearby forest, which is the source of livelihood.
 
 He claimed that the company has inflicted extensive damage to the natural resources on Surjagarh hill, and is deliberately delaying filing a reply in the court. Barsagade claimed that in view of the blatant violation of status quo ordered by the court, the gram sabhas had no choice but to fence over a kilometre-long stretch of the forest on the hillock to prevent further damage.
 
 The members of the gram sabhas took up the task and fenced the hillock with bamboo fencing, and installed boards announcing the area to be the property of gram sabhas. Villagers have threatened of action if the company continues to damage the forest and excavate valuable minerals.
 
 
