CHANDIGARH: Money crisis has forced the municipal corporation to hold up the community parking projects that area councillor had proposed for Sectors 34, 35, and 44.

 The three sectors are so short of space that street fights over parking have become common at night, but raising the issue with the authorities hasn’t helped. During a visit to these sectors on Sunday, the TOI team found how narrow streets of these sectors had made community parking a necessity. The count of vehicles in these residential areas has multiplied over the past few years but the   has not adjusted for it.
 
 Even though the community parking was proposed after former UT adviser Vijay Dev paid a special visit to the ward, the civic authorities shelved the project after his transfer. Sector 44 united   president   said: “The civic authorities have not come into action, even though the residents are tired raising the issue. Despite this, we are hopeful that the councillor will push the community parking project for the convenience of the public, but it could be in vain.”
 
 J S Gogia, general secretary of   (Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh) and the resident welfare association (RWA) of Sector 35 said: “Residents are ready to pay a nominal fee for the community parking lot, which the Foswac also proposed long ago and which the MC has not considered till date.”
 
 In 2011, for solving the long-pending problem of parking space crunch in the residential areas, the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh planned to draft a proposal for converting the open space in each sector into community parking lot. The draft proposal suggests that the corporation planned to identify open spaces based on the requirement of each sector, but the project is yet to see the light of the day. It was decided that MC will not develop parks over these spaces or install iron grills around. It has been proposed that for a cluster of 50 houses in each sector, an open space be earmarked for conversion into parking lot. If the residents don’t want to deploy their own security at the lots, the corporation will charge them Rs 200 each for car and deploy full-time guards. The proposal says the corporation will also lay a tertiary-water pipeline in every parking lot for the washing of vehicles
 
 
