CHANDIGARH: Part of Sector 17-A, the city's most popular commercial space, is losing its sheen to neglect and poor maintenance for the past few years. 

 The market, which is located next to  , appears to have suffered a sudden decline in attention ever since a famous liquor store in the area was closed three years ago. 
 
 "The only time we saw any activity in this market was when a really famous liquor store in the area was operational. Many policemen and even MC officials used to make rounds of the place at the time. But it has been dead for the past three years," said  , a shop owner in the area. 
 
 The market, which wears a deserted look at any time of the day, is littered with garbage and even animal waste. There are heaps of garbage near concrete circles which were meant for sitting as well as the pavements and shop corridors. 
 
 "There is no cleanliness in this part of the market and the effect is visible. A few months ago, there were piles of construction debris after a new wall was constructed on the opposite side. The corridors are littered with dog poop, along with plastic and paper waste," said Chopra. 
 
 Near the front portion of the market, close to Madhya Marg, is a cluster of five to seven street-lights which have been dysfunctional for more than eight months, leaving people who frequent the area jittery after sunset. "Sometimes, we are forced to leave early in the evening because this place gets really dark. It is already pretty deserted in the morning, imagine what it must feel like after sunset. Also, anti-social elements gather here," said  , a shop owner from the area. 
 
 The red sandstone tiles in corridors have been uprooted at several places and some are broken. The damaged tiles make walking in the area a hazardous activity. "Sector 17 is among the oldest sectors of the city and the buildings are also very old. The MC is not responsible for repairing these tiles but the owners of the buildings are. However, they are simply not interested. Since we are on rent, we have tried talking but nothing has come out of it," said Chopra.
 
 
