Mumbai: Liberty House, best known in India for its purchase of Tata Steel’s UK speciality steel business, is likely to bid for   for the third time after creditors invited fresh proposals for the troubled ship builder. April 19 is the last date for submission of applications for ABG. A spokeswoman for the London-based   declined to comment.

 Liberty had participated in the two earlier rounds of bidding for ABG. In the first round, its bid was rejected as the offer was below ABG’s liquidation value of Rs 2,200 crore. In the second round, creditors turned down the commodities group, which was the lone bidder, as it failed to comply with bankruptcy rules. According to norms, if a participant fails to pay a loan for more than a year, then its bid for an insolvent asset gets disqualified. A source said that Liberty, owned by India-born British businessman Sanjeev Gupta, had a pending $2.8 million Exim Bank loan for more than 12 months. This loan has now been paid off and hence Liberty is eligible to participate in the bidding process.
 
 In the second round, Liberty had offered Rs 5,000 crore through a deferred-payment plan to lenders. A source said while ABG got a valuation of Rs 5,000 crore, interestingly its rival Bharati Shipyard, also going through the bankruptcy process, haven’t found any buyer yet.
 
 ABG, one of the large accounts that is going under the hammer through the bankruptcy process, owes Rs 12,000 crore to its lenders. Initially,   and   groups had shown interest in ABG but didn’t make any firm offer. Shapoorji Pallonji, said a source, will not participate in the third round, while Mahindra’s interest couldn’t be ascertained.
 
 If the creditors don’t select any buyer this time, ABG will head to liquidation as the 270-day deadline to find a resolution plan ends on April 29. If Liberty manages to acquire ABG, it would mark its entry into the ship building sector. But Liberty, whose flagship business is steel production, intends to use the scrap from ship breaking to make steel. ABG has been pushed into the auction process due to mounting losses and debt arising out of a down cycle in the industry.
 
 
