RAJKOT: Around 2,000 farmers protesting over the state-run   ( ) taking possession of land acquired two decades ago in Bedi village of   taluka of Bhavnagar were in for a shock on Saturday. 

 Teargas shells were fired at farmers who planned to protest in non-violent manner by giving roses to the government officials and the police engaged in taking possession of the land. As many as 630 people were detained for unlawful assembly and released after few hours. The farmers have been opposing GPCL’s move and demanding acquisition as per new land acquisition act of 2013. Over 1,000 children of about a dozen village of Ghogha taluka have de-registered their children from the schools in protest of the government’s move. 
 
 A farmer leader Yogendrasinh Sarvaiya said, “We were asked to leave and threatened with lathicharge and arrest. Police are acting like we are terrorists. We went there for a peaceful protest by giving the police roses and did not want to take law in our hands. We just want to say to the company officials that though there is no stay, the matter is pending in court and they should wait till final judgement comes.” 
 
 According to police sources, two teargas shells were fired to disperse the villagers. However, despite the teargas shells, the villagers handed over the roses to the officials. Over 2,000 people from surrounding villages held a sit-in protest in Badi village, demanding justice.
 
 Commenting on the firing of teargas shell over peaceful protesters, Bhavnagar superintendent of police Pravin Mal told TOI, “Section 144 of the IPC is in force in the village and according to it assembly of more than four people is not allowed. Even if they had come with roses, we can’t allow the assembly. So to disperse the crowd, our officials lobbed two teargas shell and detained 630 people who were released after few hours.”
 
 Bhavnagar collector   said, “According to law they don’t have right over the land and there is no stay from the court. So we have started mining work.” 
 
 GPCL had acquired 1,415 hectare of government and private land in three mining blocks — Ghogha-Surka, Khadsaliya-I and Khadsaliya-II — of the total 2,980 ha required. The remaining 1,565 ha will be acquired in phases once the power plant, which is to be set up by GPCL subsidiary   (BECL), is fully commissioned.
 
 The land was acquired from 1,250 farmers in 12 villages of Ghogha taluka about two decades ago between 1997 and 2005.
 
 
