MUMBAI: Even the most die-hard of the   fans seemed have given up hope, as was evident when those wearing the team’s ‘yellow jersey’ in the packed Wankhede crowd on Saturday night went silent as the   giants, returning after a two-year hiatus, slipped to 118 for seven by the 17th over while chasing 166 against the  .

 
 
 
 Amid the ruins, which included a batsman,  , who had limped to the dugout clutching his hamstrung thigh, was  . Just as CSK seemed dead and buried, the West Indian erupted. Smashing seven sixes and three fours in a whirlwind 30-ball 68, he pulled off a sensational victory from the jaws of defeat. So unbelievable was Bravo’s knock that the man himself rated it as his “best-ever” with the bat. Now, coming from a man who’s played as many as 40 Tests, 164 ODIs, 66 T20 Internationals, 100 First-Class matches, 221 List A games, besides featuring in 376 T20 matches for 15 different teams, this surely must mean something.
 
 “This is my best-ever knock. I don't think I have ever played an innings like this in any format. So, this is a special one. As you can see, when I reached my fifty, I didn’t even raise my bat. I knew the job wasn’t finished. There was still a long way to go. I was in a zone. I was just focusing on trying to get the game done for my team. I was disappointed that I was out in the last over. But I played the innings that put my team in a position to win, and that is what happened tonight. I am just happy that I was able to contribute with the bat. It has been a while that I haven’t been able to make runs. This one will always be special to me,” said Bravo after getting CSK off to a winning start upon their return into the IPL after a two-year ban.
 
 It wasn’t the only time that Bravo ruled in the death overs of this match. Earlier in the evening, he had spoiled MI’s slog overs, giving away just seven runs in his last two overs, including four runs in the 20th, to keep the Pandya brothers in check. Clearly, if there’s one man who relishes the pressure of the business end of the match, it’s Bravo.
 
 “I think it’s a challenge for me. I mark myself against the best in the world, so in moments like this is where it really matters. I don’t enjoy bowling when there’s not much pressure on. When there’s pressure, I need to focus a lot more and in the nets, I prepare very well when I bowl to guys like MS (Dhoni) and Suresh (Raina) and these guys, who’re good hitters. Even when I’m playing for the West Indies, I bowl to guys like (Andre) Russell and (Kieron) Pollard, so it gave me confidence. I don’t just turn up in a game and it happens naturally. I prepare in the nets, I make sure I’m executing my yorkers properly, so whenever I call on those special deliveries, I deliver more often,” he said.
 
 “Bowling to Hardik (Pandya) and his brother, I prepare for these moments in the nets. So whenever it does occurs, my body and my mind plays it over and over. I practice the night before. There are days when I go out and execute it right, on another day it could be the opposite. I take each game step by step and I’m happy if we win the game, which is most important,” he added.
 
 Speaking about his effort with the ball on Saturday, the 34-year-old said: “Tonight was a little tougher, because I bowled the last three overs and the skipper asked me if I’ll be able to do it, and of course, I said ‘yes’ and again bowling to these guys is a big challenge. I embrace it. I enjoy it, and tonight was just my night.”
 
 Talking about his blitzkrieg in 18th and 19th overs of the match, in which he plundered five sixes and 39 runs overall, Bravo said: “I wasn’t thinking much actually. I was just trying my best to bat till the last over. I thought that if I bat deep and till the end, we have a good chance of winning the game because Wankhede is a ground where if you miss your length and yorkers, the ball can travel. So you mistime a few, a few edges go your way and the bowling team is always under pressure because the margin for error is so small in this format, you miss your yorker by an inch, it can go for six as you can see tonight. (Jasprit) Bumrah is one of the best bowlers in the world…it was just my day, I’ll take that. It’s always good to start any tournament with a win and this is a special win for us personally because our fans have been so loyal to us and they waited for this opportunity and people in Chennai and throughout India as well, our CSK fans and our captain MS (Dhoni).”
 
 It isn’t easy to attack Jasprit Bumrah in the slog, but Bravo succeeded to do that, carting the Indian pacer for three sixes during his relentless onslaught. “I just wanted to stay still, keep my eyes on the ball, have a good (bat) swing. Here at Wankhede, the ball travels every time you miss the length. Just get a good contact and the ball will go. (In) those two overs, we needed 15 an over. So at some point, I had to take a chance and it worked off. Anytime you hit a boundary, whether it is a six or a four, the bowler is automatically under pressure. I know, as a bowler how you feel when your first ball goes for a boundary. No matter how good a bowler you are, in these tense moments, if you’re put under pressure, you tend to fumble. Again, I was hitting the ball nicely in the nets. I had the confidence and the belief that I can win the game despite losing wickets. I can bat deep. (I) can’t forget Jadhav, who came back and showed a lot of fight and a lot of guts. To hit that six is a special, special moment. From thereon, we had the game,” analysed Bravo.
 
 Bravo seems to revel in the faith former India and current CSK skipper   reposes in him. “Captain Cool said ‘well played’. Nothing special. This is someone who knows my ability. He has shown a lot of faith in me. It was only a matter of time that I got the opportunity to repay that faith. CSK is a very good team, a very good franchise. I was very excited that CSK used the ‘Right to Match’ card for me. And I’m happy to wear the yellow jersey again,” he said with an infectious smile.
 
 Interestingly, both Bravo and his fellow West Indian and close friend in the Mumbai Indians team, Kieron Pollard, were wearing jerseys that sported the number 400 on them. Explaining the choice of that number, Bravo said: “Pollard is the first player to play 400 T20 games. So, he has 400 on his back. And I’m the first bowler to get 400 wickets. So both of us said: ‘Okay, if we both play the first game in the IPL, let’s do something different.’ It’s a great milestone for both of us personally. Pollard spoke to Mumbai, I spoke to CSK and they allowed us to play in this game. Moving forward in the tournament, we both will go back to our respective numbers - 47 and 55. I’m happy that 400 is a lucky performance.”
 
 A hamstring injury had laid Bravo low for eight months, and the veteran allrounder admitted it isn’t easy to come back after injury at his age (34) anymore. “Well, it’s on my mind in terms of I had to be more careful and I’m no longer 24 like how I used to be before so I have to be very cautious, and as I said I started very slow and just needed to get momentum going into the game. But as you can see, as the game picked up especially in the later stages, this is where I’m more specialised and this is where the team needs me the most. The captain showed faith in me and this is basically my role in CSK— to finish off games with the ball. Each game now, I’ve to make sure I can cover properly, we travel now and fitness is very important but we have a very good medical team and I’m happy that we won tonight’s game,” he said.
 
 
