Chennai: Art holds in it the answers to life’s thorniest questions. And because we’ve strayed from this truth on some of present-day’s most democratic and sprawling virtual spaces, a bunch of artists have taken it upon themselves to remind us what we’re missing.

 "Being part of a generation that’s forever online, I was scrolling through my social media feed last year and most of the posts I saw were airbrushed selfies, vacation check-ins and high resolution salad photos," says city-born artist Kaviya Ilango. "If I judged people by their online profiles, I would assume all of us were living exciting, perfect lives. But behind the rose tinted glasses of social media, our generation is dealing with issues like loneliness, complicated relationships, addictions and lack of financial planning — the so-called dirty laundry that most people don't choose to acknowledge. Why? Because they will be judged," says Ilango.
 
 Her angst to answer these existential questions culminated in ‘#100daysofdirtylaundry’, an Instagram series that doesn’t shy away from addressing these difficult topics up front and initiating long-due dialogues on them. The series features women who in their own varied ways nonconform to modern-day stereotypes perpetuated by mainstream and social media; they’re unshaven, scarred, fair, dark, at home amidst life’s everyday chaos, and unapologetically real about the tormenting personal conflicts these pressures wire into them. 
 
 "I am certainly not here to say that social media is bad or that people are being vain. I am only concerned about how we are using social media solely as a tool for validation and vanity. I do not intend to break stereotypes or challenge taboos through my art, but rather have honest conversations about such topics, in the hope that we realise everyone is imperfect," says Ilango.
 
 At the heart of these deliberations is the undisputable potential of social media to call out stereotypes and hypocrisies. As a global platform, it is where movements such as #metoo and #darkisbeautiful have been catalysts for changing conversations around difficult topics. Mumbai-based fashion and conceptual photographer Rohini Kumar has always found herself perking up over alternative discussions challenging   and body image norms. As a professional who consciously avoids retouching her images after shooting them, Kumar’s new series ‘Bare’ is a fascinating view into the aesthetic of unfiltered, un-colour-corrected human anatomy and a square defiance to the glamour industry’s fixation over the unreal.
 
 "Fortunately, many artists these days are working with body positivity, and I have personally benefited from their works too. Even if my professional models have pimples, stretch marks and freckles, they make it to our final shots. Why make the fashion industry about things that are not real, who are we benefitting out of doing that," asks Kumar.
 
 
