AURANGABAD: The city police have managed to arrest 27-year-old suspect accused of allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl with the help of a woman accomplice. The suspect was on the run for over three months. 

 The 15-year-old girl was abducted while she was on her way home from school. She was taken to Mhainsmal (around 25-km from Nashik) where the suspect raped her by spiking her drink. As part of evidence, the city police have already seized the CCTV footage of the hotel where the minor was allegedly raped.
 
 The city police had come under fire after the accused managed to evade arrest for this long. The suspect has been identified as  , a resident of   in the city, and is a scrap dealer.
 
 While evading arrest, the accused tried all the possible legal remedies, including filing a plea for anticipatory bail before the   bench of the Bombay High Court, but nothing helped.
 
 Investigation officer and assistant inspector Vijay Gherde said, "After chasing him for almost three months, we have finally managed to nab him. Now, the next major task is to arrest the suspect woman."
 
 The suspect, after being produced before a special court on Tuesday, was remanded in police custody. The police suspect that the accused woman on the run, is into business of pushing young girls in to prostitution and this girl may be one of the many victims in the city.
 
 The alleged incident took place on December 13, but the family registered a complaint only after six days. Following the complaint, the police launched a manhunt for the suspect woman who has reportedly been caught on the CCTV camera.
 
 As per the complaint lodged by victim's mother, the suspect woman came in touch with her daughter through one of their relatives. After befriending her, the suspect woman on December 13 reached   at 1.30pm when the minor girl was walking home and offered her a lift on the two-wheeler she was sitting on with the suspect.
 
 After kidnapping the girl, the accused duo headed towards Khultabad, where the accused woman citing personal reasons got down, while Rahim took the minor to a Mhainsmal-based hotel.
 
 Hours later, the accused brought her back and dropped at   crossroads.
 
 
