NAGPUR: Amid the pink bollworm crisis, the seed lobby is keeping the state government on the tenterhooks over availability of   cotton seeds for the next season.   Seed Association of India ( ) has refused to give the   any commitment on supply of Bt cotton seeds for the 2018 sowing season.

 The state government is keen to get a clearer picture on the seed supply early. Cotton is the mainstay crop in large parts of the state. There has been much turbulence on the farm front already, which ended with a loan waiver plan being announced. After that, the pink bollworm attack on cotton crop made the situation worse.
 
 Lack of seeds before sowing season, which begins in mid-April, can also lead to a political crisis The seed lobby finds the state government in a tight spot here, and so has only given a vague answer to its queries, said sources aware of the developments.
 
 Last week, a meeting was held at Pune, where the agriculture department had asked seed companies to submit their marketing plans. A week later, NSAI has sent another letter saying the government should not go by marketing plans submitted by the companies.
 
 The marketing plans are only indicative and may not be considered as a commitment to supply Bt seeds without any clarity from the central and state government over the current issue, says the letter.
 
 Kalyan Goswami, director general of NSAI, said, “Cotton seed companies are already in trouble this year, and it may not be prudent for them to supply Bt cotton seeds again and face the same problem. It is not the seed companies but  , the technology provider, which is responsible for the crisis.”
 
 With pink bollworm hampering the cotton crop, state government has moved to collect a compensation from seed companies and pay it to farmers. So far, over 12 lakh claims have been collected from farmers.
 
 This is because Bt seeds are supposed to be resistant to bollworm attacks. Now, as the seeds have failed, the state wants producers to make good the losses. The NSAI, on the other hand, is blaming Monsanto, the US multinational which provided the genetic engineering technology for Bt seeds. 
 
 Facing pressure from the government, the seed lobby sees a strategic advantage in not disclosing the supply position. “Elections are due in 2019, and if there is short supply of seeds, it will also have political ramifications,” said the source.
 
 This is the first time seed companies have been asked to submit such details, especially on the availability of seeds. The seed companies are trying to leverage the government’s vulnerability on the issue, hoping that it may help the industry bargain when it comes to paying the penalty.
 
 The government wants to first be assured that there is enough supply of seeds, and then act against the companies. However, the seed lobby is finding it better not to disclose the real picture, so that it may delay any action, said a source.
 
 
