Lucknow: Rats and moles are at the root of UPs   problem, according to a UP health department document. Citing researchers from Indian Council of Medical Research, National Institute of Virology and  , Gorakhpur, the health document said that over 60% of the encephalitis cases in UP were caused by an infection called scrub typhus. 

 The problem is being addressed by   government in its strategy to beat encephalitis. "Scrub typhus is caused by mites living in the ear of rodents like rats and moles. The presence of this infection was confirmed in over 60% of cases over a period of three years," said V   adding, "scrub causing mites also live in certain shrubs." 
 
 Stating that encephalitis due to scrub typhus was preventable, she said that the state government has rolled out a plan to beat the mites. "Encephalitis prevention has to be a multi-point strategy. So, agriculture and animal husbandry departments would play a role in rodent control while panchyati raj department would work to mitigate the issue of shrubs," she said.
 
 On Monday, a detailed behaviour change and communication strategy to beat encephalitis was also rolled out by the state government in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Called Dastak, the plan includes knocking at the door of each house to create awareness on the issue of encephalitis so as to minimise time wasted at the doorsteps of quacks and faith healers. This is for times that   is getting associated with the drive to check encephalitis in the state.
 
 "No child should die of encephalitis. We are strengthening the health systems to increase treatment capacities and offer the highest quality of care but equally important is creating awareness for prevention, control and timely detection of encephalitis cases can be done," said CM Adityanath on the occasion.
 
 Unicef's communication for development specialist   said that health messages would be disseminated in the language of the people. "Bhojpuri jingles and radio spots and informative films have been developed to help people understand the seriousness of the matter in their own language," he said. 
 
 A survey conducted by Path for UP health department showed that quacks and faith healers served as the first treatment point for over 50% of the encephalitis inflicted children. "So, by the time a child reaches a health facility, valuable time for life saving intervention is wasted," admitted health officials.
 
 
