CHENNAI: Chennai city police have come closer to solving the Sunday bank heist with the arrest of security guard Shabi Lal, who was the main suspect, in Nepal with the help of   police on Thursday. However, the Nepal police personnel refused to hand him over to the Chennai police as they have to follow various norms to extradite him from Nepal to India, as per the treaty signed between the two countries in 1963.

 Based on a tip by the Chennai police through the central nodal agency CBI, the Interpol officials helped the Nepal police nab Shabi Lal near his native village. The Interpol officials have confirmed the nodal agency about his arrest.
 
 
 The Chennai police team camping at the Nepal border are trying to negotiate with the Nepal police through the CBI officials to bring the suspect to Chennai to apprehend him in the bank heist case.
 
 The guard Shabi Lal, his son Dillu Lal and four other accomplicesstole at least?40 lakh worth gold, diamond and ruby jewellery from two lockers at the   (IOB) branch in  .
 
 A police officer said that as per the extradition treaty signed between India and Nepal, the Chennai police will have to collect documents and substantiating evidences to confirm Shabi Lal and his son Dillu Lal’s involvement in the case.
 
 The copies of documents will have to be submitted through the CBI to the Interpol, which in turn will hand over them to the Nepal police. If thedocuments and proofs submitted are validated, the Nepal authorities would extradite Shabi Lal and his son Dillu Lal to India.
 
 A senior police officer confirmed the news from Nepal saying, “We have to wait and apprehend him if he enters India again.”
 
 “It may take at least a few more months to extradite the suspects,” said another top officer.
 
 Meanwhile, the police are checking whether the accused had carried his loot with him to Nepal or if he had given some of the jewellery to his accomplices in Chennai and Bengaluru.
 
 Meanwhile, a police team nabbed a car driver from Bengaluru and two security guards from Nepal, employed in complexes in Anna Nagar and Ramapuram, for assisting Shabi’s escape in a car after looting the bank and in getting the gas cylinder usedtocutopen thebank lockers.
 
