KOLKATA: Monks at Ramakrishna Math are extremely disappointed over Friday morning’s violence that erupted around Mission founder Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary celebrations in central Kolkata. 

 Swami Purnatmananda, the monk in charge of Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral house on Bidhan Sarani, barely 2km from the MG Road-Central Avenue intersection where clashes took place, was visibly distraught on hearing about the violence. “It is a shame that such things are happening on a day earmarked to observe Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. This is not the way to achieve any goal. Whoever embraces Swamiji and his ideals should be free from all meanness. Today’s youths have much to learn from Swamiji’s life and teachings in order to build a nation free from vices,” he said, condemning any violence in the name of religion.
 
 Ramakrishna Mission Saradapith secretary   said Vivekananda championed international brotherhood, peace, unity and prosperity by rising above all narrowness. “Swamiji is for all. We condemn any violence and meanness in the name of Swamiji. Such incidents are unwarranted, unfortunate and against Swamiji’s ideology. This can only harm society,” he said.
 
 
  
 Ramakrishna Math and Mission manager Swami Girishananda felt the violence was a slur on the monk who had preached and practised harmony and tolerance. “It doesn’t make sense to simply celebrate Swamiji’s birth anniversary without understanding his spirit or imbibing his ideals. Then other issues and disputes take precedence and result in clashes like the one that happened on Friday. Swami Vivekananda’s name should not be involved in politics or any conflict,” he said.
 
 Writer  , too, expressed shock at the disrespect meted out to Vivekananda. “What happened is sad and shameful. It deserves the strongest criticism. Vivekananda’s birthday used to be observed at the Ramakrishna Mission. People respected him but didn’t make a song and dance about it. Now, there is celebration in neigbhourhoods with people vying to outdo one another,” he said.
 
 Theatre personality   felt the violence was a reflection of the growing intolerance across India, but warned that protesting against it with an equal dose of intolerance would be a grave threat to the cultural fabric of Bengal. “It’s very unfortunate that such an incident had to happen on the day we are celebrating Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary,” he said.
 
 
