Thiruvananthapuram: With high court setting aside the order to resume land of   Ltd (HML), the relevance of an act to take over the land held by private companies has once again come to the fore.

 Revenue minister   hinted about framing such a legislation. This was recommended by special officer (for resumption of government land) MG Rajamanickam in his report on the need to take over the vast extent of illegal land holdings by private companies in Kerala. The report was submitted to the government on June 4, 2016.
 
 “The high court order has not said that the ownership of the land rests with HML. It has only cancelled the order issued by special officer to resume land. We will scrutinize the court order in detail and if required, will think about framing a legislation in this regard,” he said.
 
 In his report, Rajamanickam had said that ‘it is high time to take policy decision regarding this issue as it is advisable to go for legislation than to proceed under Kerala Land Conservancy Act.”
 
 The report also said that the spirit of Kannan Devan Hills (Resumption) of Land Act, 1971, may be followed to take over the entire government land occupied by plantation companies. Meanwhile, the opposition is terming the government’s lack of conviction in this regard. Former revenue minister Adoor Prakash said that the matter was raised in the assembly several times, but the government did not give a proper reply.
 
 “The government did not act on the recommendations for an act by the special officer and sat on his report. The matter was raised by me many times in the assembly, but the revenue minister failed to give a convincing reply,” said Prakash, adding that the government lawyers did not appear on time in high court, creating an opportunity for the company to turn things in its favour.
 
 But, the government’s task for a legislation would not be easy as it had faced a huge setback in court over a legislation it had framed for such a takeover – the takeover of Kovalam Palace through Kovalam Palace (Takeover by Resumption) Act 2005. In 2011, the high court had declared the act void and unconstitutional.
 
 Law department had objected the promulgation of an ordinance when the previous government discussed the taking over of HML land. Law department sources said that the government should have declared all such land as its land by invoking the Kerala Escheats and Forfeitures Act, 1964, or by Section 72 of the Kerala Land Conservancy Act and then enforced the KLC Act to take over the land.
 
 
