KOLKATA: Tunnelling for East-West Metro’s   section has hit a hurdle even before the boring machines could start drilling.

 Tunnelling was supposed to start on May 15. It would have taken the TBMs 14 months to complete the drilling work. But now, there is no clarity on when the work will start. Five steel ‘Hpiles’ that were driven into the soil during the construction of north-south Metro station in the 1980s have thrown a spanner in the plans of ITD Cementation, the firm executing the boring work.
 
 In modern civil engineering, piles of timber, steel or concrete are driven into the ground to support a structure. H-piles are dimensionally square structural beams that are driven in the ground for foundation applications. The H-piles were built to support a temporary iron road that was built when the crossing was dug up and barricaded for construction of the existing Esplanade station. Traffic, plying between S N   and R R Avenue, was diverted along this temporary deck road in those days.
 
 The construction agency of north-south Metro, unaware that another Metro alignment would come up through the   crossing, had let the H-piles remain, some 30m underground.
 
 “It has become absolutely necessary to remove the H-piles to clear the TBMs’ path. Tunnel borers can drill through rock and concrete but not steel,” said an official.
 
 The H-piles were found during a survey in November.
 
 Ever since it was discovered, structural engineers of   Rail Corporation (KMRC), that’s implementing the Rs 8,575-crore East-West Metro project, racked their brains on how to remove them. In February, after consulting international experts, ITD Cementation had submitted a proposal to adopt the hyperbaric method to split and cut the piles. Sources said   is getting experts from Germany, UK and South Korea to study the proposal and the “time and cost implication”.
 
 “We are trying to find out the best methodology for removing the piles,” a KMRC official said. This, apparently, is taking some time. ITD Cementation had asked for KMRC’s approval by March 31 so that they can start removing the H-piles (it would take one-and-a-half months) and be in a position to start tunneling by May 15. “It’s already 15 days into April. We are already 15 days behind schedule and can start tunnelling after June 1 if the proposal is cleared in the next 24 hours. More time taken would mean more delay,” said a source.
 
 But KMRC wants to be absolutely sure of the methodology adopted, even as stringent deadlines are looming. The deadline for the full run of East-West Metro is June 2021.
 
