At the T-point where the   from Pamposh Enclave meets Hansraj Gupta Marg in south Delhi, you have to sidle past unkempt bougainvillea hedges and leap over the open drain to get on the footpath — secured for pedestrian use by pink and grey interlocking tiles. But, as you let your eyes wander down the stretch, you realise it won’t be an easy beginning for Delhi traffic police, whose latest campaign to remove road encroachments for the convenience of pedestrians is to start here. 

 This mix-land use stretch in Greater Kailash I is lined by residential bungalows and commercial buildings, which means a massive presence of motor cars. The pavement — running past boutique hotels, pet shops and private banks — is virtually a parking lot. Wary of the irascible attendants managing the unending rows of idle vehicles, you are forced to   on the bituminous stretch with traffic breathing down your back. "How can you expect the disabled or senior citizens to walk freely here?" asks a flustered Shyam Singh Verma, and waving his walking stick haplessly, the elderly man adds, "If you aren’t in a car, you are putting your life in danger."
 
 Just past R Block, you are relieved to once again spot the familiar pink-grey tiles. But 10 metres on, you confront the cold stares of security guards who are overseeing workers creating ramps on the space meant for pedestrians. These illegal ramps are a rule rather than an exception here. "Everyone does it. Why object to what we are doing?" bristles a moustachioed guard, who is unaware of or more likely dismissive of his guard cabin too being an encroachment on the pavement. Indeed, someone nearby is building a house and is conveniently using the footpath as storage space for construction materials.
 
 Jump over the debris and negotiate your way past the muddy mess created by a car wash and your progress is halted by a mid-pathway mini garden! The remaining bits of spaces have been claimed by Swachh Bharat Abhiyan with garbage bins stubbornly challenging walkers to find toe-space past them. Then along S Block, your way is blocked by flowerpots. This is not a beautification effort, only a devious resident marking "his territory". From hedges to potted plants and guard outhouses, home owners take innovative measures to deter people from parking on the pavement in front of their houses, in the process creating a veritable obstacle course for pedestrians.
 
 If you bravely ignore the power wires hanging loosely from tilted electric poles, you will be stopped in your tracks by a garden, freshly created by pulling out the footpath tiles and installing flower pots in their place. This spot opposite the M Block market bus stop leads you to another where the occupying tea seller scowls at you for violating his personal space. As you hop away in deference, you hear urgent honks behind you and realise that getting crushed between two cars is a distinct possibility.
 
 Along this 1.1 km stretch, TOI did not even find 50 metres free of obstructions. Anil Kumar, who has been selling ice cream at M Block market for 20 years, says, "Earlier, when there were fewer cars, people parked them on the road and police could do nothing!" Kumar’s unspoken verdict on the probable success of the latest anti-encroachment drive leaves you nodding in agreement.
 
 
