MADURAI: Two more parks will be developed by   under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. A resolution in this connection was passed in the civic body’s special council meeting headed by commissioner and special officer   on Wednesday.

 At present, four parks are being developed at the cost of Rs 2.73 crore under the AMRUT scheme for the year 2017-20. The two proposed parks – one at Santhosh Nagar in Ward 3 and the other one at   in Ward 27 - are to be developed at the cost of Rs 82.44 lakh.
 
 The civic body has also selected 22 important roads to be laid and re-laid at the cost Rs 6 crore. The corporation is also planning to construct sewage water pumping station and a pumping main unit at the cost of Rs 81 lakh at Vaigai North Bank Road in Ward 9.
 
 Approvals were given to various projects in the council meeting. A resolution to develop new facilities to chlorinate drinking water through chlorine cylinders at various pumping stations like Tirupparankundram, Avaniyapuram, Kochadai and Melakkal was also passed. At present chlorine is used in the form of powder.
 
 The city corporation is to treat the sewage water to be generated by the households in the satellite city, which is being developed at present, at the Vellaikkal treatment unit. While the fund Rs 16.49 crore required to connect the areas would be provided by the agency developing the city, the civic corporation will carry out the works.
 
 The recently proposed projects under the Smart City scheme like round the clock drinking water supply plan at the cost of Rs 120 crore, a shopping point for tourists at Rs 6.99 crore, strengthening the Vaigai river banks at Rs 113 crore, development of historic relics at Rs 63 crore, reconstruction of Periyar Bus Terminal at Rs 143.74 crore with modern facilities, vehicle parking at   area at Rs 28.97 crore and solid waste collection plan at Rs 10 crore were approved in the meeting.
 
 Earlier, the civic body commissioner inspected the construction works of new   at  , which comes under ward 29, at the cost of Rs 75 lakh. He instructed the officials to expedite the works.
 
 
