Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced a drug peddler to 15 years rigorous imprisonment after finding him guilty in a drug peddling case. The special court judge Sonia Kinra also imposed a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh on the convict, and in default of payment of fine, he will have to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months. On May 16, 2016, Division No.6 police station had booked Naresh Kumar (38) of Cheema Chowki in Janakpuri under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for conscious possession of 1,200 tablets of Lomotil, containing 75.6g of ‘diphenoxylate hydrochloride’ salt.

 As per prosecution, a police party headed by ASI Ram Pal was present at Cheema Chowk in connection with checking. During checking, at about 6.15 pm, they found a person carrying one bag in his right hand coming from the side of Janakpuri police post. On seeing the police party, he tried to run away. He was apprehended by the police party, and he later revealed his identity as Naresh Kumar alias Salori.
 
 During the search, police recovered 60 strips of Lomotil tablets from his polythene bag, and each strip contained 20 tablets of the drug (a total of 1,200 tablets). Police later arrested the accused and presented a challan against him in the court of law. During the trial of the case, the accused claimed false implication.
 
 Additional public prosecutor for the state contended for punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution witnesses and chemical examination report of the recovered consignment. The defence counsel pleaded that cross- examination of the recovery witness head constable Mohammad Sadiq revealed that he was not present on the spot, and no independent witness was joined.
 
 The court observed that the argument of the learned defence counsel was of no avail to him, as these were minor discrepancies with regard to the time of arrest, laying of naka, preparation of the memos, and reaching back in the police station. Such type of minor discrepancies were bound to occur in truthful witnesses. Moreover, when their testimonies were recorded after about two years, truthful witnesses are not expected to depose in a parrot-like manner, vomiting out each and every word verbatim.
 
 Reacting to the non-joining of independent witnesses in the case, the court observed that the high court had held that if there was evidence that witnesses were available, and the investigating officer made efforts to join public witnesses in the search and seizure, and they unreasonably refused to join the proceedings, then the prosecution case could not be held as doubtful because of the non-joining of an independent witness.
 
 The court ordered that the prosecution had been able to prove that the accused was found in possession of 1,200 tablets of Lomotil, each weighing 0.063 grams, containing ‘diphenoxylate hydrochloride’ salt as per report of Forensic Science Laboratory, meaning thereby, he had been proved to be in possession of 75.6g of ‘diphenoxylate hydrochloride’ salt, which falls under a commercial quantity. Therefore, Salori was held guilty for an offence punishable under Section 22 of the NDPS Act, 1985.
 
 
