NAGPUR: Lashing out at today’s education system that imparts only basic language skills, president of Akhil Bharatiya   Sahitya Sammelan   on Thursday said a lot more efforts are needed to ensure that Marathi does not face the threat of extinction. 

 He was delivering the keynote address on ‘Bhasha, abhijatata aani aapan’ at a programme jointly organized by Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, Vidarbha Sanskrutik Parishad and Rajaram Library, Dharampeth, at Sarvodaya Ashram Hall. The event was held to mark the 75th birthday of Vasant Abaji Dahake, a noted writer and former president of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan.
 
 Deshmukh, a former bureaucrat, lamented that Marathi and other languages for that matter too are losing sheen. The younger generation is turning to global languages and pushing local dialects on the back burner which should set the alarm bells ringing, he said. 
 
 He suggested that people should find a middle path to facilitate coexistence of languages and dialects. Making Marathi as the second compulsory language in curriculum will be a good idea to begin with, he added.
 
 “Marathi should be made compulsory up to Std XII and also included in courses like BSc home science. The road ahead is long, but the universities can play an important role in saving Indian languages from the lurking danger they are facing, especially from English,” Deshmukh said.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, prominent multilingual speakers applauded the literary works and contribution of Dahake, a Sahitya Akademi awardee in 2009.
 
 Vasant Tripathi, a professor at Biyani College, underlined the importance of coexistence of Hindi and Marathi. Once used as a powerful tool during the struggle for freedom, the languages have now become a mere medium of conversation. There has been degradation of languages as the literature produced today is far from outstanding, he added.
 
 Tripathi said, “Since I was exposed to a variety of cultures from an early age, I am not profoundly attached to any one language and that empowers me to view each one as equal. I think people should give up apathetic attitude, come forward and fight for the cause of languages. Otherwise, barring a few, many languages will become extinct.”
 
 Prakash Parab, a lecturer of Marathi from Mumbai, and advocate Shantaram Datar also spoke. 
 
 Vilas Deshpande, treasurer of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, was present. Komal Thakur conducted the programme. 
 
 
 
