PUNE: Thirteen-year-old Neel Thakurdas, an avid football fan, is backing France to win this year’s Fifa World Cup in  . 

 Imagine his joy, then, when his family bagged tickets for the France versus Denmark game (on June 26 at the   in Moscow) during Fifa’s online random selection draw. “It is a dream come true to watch my team play live at football’s biggest event,” he said. His family managed to get tickets — eight in all — to two matches overall. “We somehow got lucky,” Neel said. 
 
 Like Neel, several from the city are planning to travel to the World Cup — even without match tickets — just to soak in the atmosphere. This is a mere indicator of the nascent sports tourism in the country. Apart from the World Cup, the French Open, Wimbledon and other sporting events have captured football fanatics’ imagination. 
 
 
  
 
 Tour operators claim to have witnessed a 20-50% increase in travel to sporting events this year, when compared to the past few years. 
 
 “The idea is to visit a destination and fit in a match or two in the itinerary,” said Nikhil Thakurdas, owner of Odyssey Tours and Travels. “International tennis players coming to Pune for the   in January has whet the appetite of tennis fans, who want to attend majors in Paris and London. English Premier League, La Liga and the Indian cricket team’s England tour are also in demand,” he said.
 
 “Enquiries are (also) mounting for the team’s Australia tour in November-December,” according to  , founder-owner of travel firm The Sportism. “We have (also) had 30 enquiries for the 2019 ICC World Cup (in England and Wales). Puneites are also enquiring about next year’s Australian Open,” said Kelkar.
 
 Kelkar had just returned from Sri Lanka, where he — and several others from Pune — had watched the tri-nation Nidahas Trophy final between India and Bangladesh, which the former won. “We plan to host sports aficionados from other countries for events in India,” Kelkar said, “We have also gotten enquiries (from Indians) for the Asian Games in Indonesia as well as Formula One grands prix.”
 
 People from all age groups appear interested in the fad. “We had a 65-year-old couple accompany us for the Nidahas Trophy final,” Kelkar said.
 
 Nakul Patel (27), who also was in Colombo’s R Premadasa Stadium, said, “I can’t believe I just watched India win the Nidahas Trophy. I am now looking forward to the (cricket) World Cup next year.”
 
 Shaishav Parekh, partner, Panam Tours and Travels and secretary,   (TAAI), attributed the high demand for the Fifa World Cup, as it is a quadrennial event. “We have seen a 50% increase in demand for the 2018 event, in comparison to the Brazil World Cup,” said Parekh.
 
 
