As early as 2014, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board had informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about leachate pollution at the city’s municipal solid waste dumping site at  .

 “The leachate collection system is not operating properly due to which the toxic leachate is finding its way into environment,” the board stated in an affidavit submitted to the Pune bench of NGT. The board had also observed that the waste was dumped all over the area without processing.
 
 The green court was hearing a petition filed by five residential societies which expressed grievances regarding improper and unscientific operations at the dumping site. “It is resulting in serious air and water pollution, posing a serious health hazard to a large population,” the petition stated.
 
 In the petition, it was also highlighted that a buffer zone having a desirable limit of minimum 500 meters was not maintained and this led to significant residential growth in surrounding areas. However, as per an affidavit which was then submitted by the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), there was no buffer (no-development) zone shown in the revised Development Plan of the city.
 
 Following this, creating a buffer no-development zone under the scientific assistance of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board ( ) was also directed by the court. “It is averred that development of such a buffer zone is likely to get some opposition from the local residents, as their development rights will be affected,” the court’s order had stated.
 
 Against the court’s directives, the civic body failed in maintaining the buffer zone. “The dumping area kept expanding and the garbage went closer to human habitation,” said the residents of Deshpande layout. Members of the society, under the banner of Deshpande Jansamsaya Niwaran Samiti, were one of the applicants. 
 
 In its affidavit, NIT had stated that it did not regularize or sanction any layout under the scheme of regularization within 500m buffer zone from the compost depot. “We carried out survey of unauthorized constructions, which are not regularized under the Maharashtra Gunthewari Developments (Regularization, Up-gradation and Control) Act, 2001. The unauthorized layouts have come up in Bhandewadi and Wathoda within 500m radius of existing compost depot before 2001,” it stated.
 
 Asim  , who was the counsel in this case, said that it was NMC’s duty to prevent such encroachments. “Being a custodian, the civic body should have protected the buffer zone,” he said.
 
 Sarode added that the unscientific dumping of garbage has “permanently” polluted the groundwater of the area. “It is the duty of the state government to rehabilitate the affected people,” he said. 
 
 Residents of Deshpande layout said that the civic agencies are in contempt of the court’s order. “The situation at Bhandewadi is worsening day-by-day. Under such circumstances, we will knock the doors of court again,” they added. 
 
 As per Sarode, an execution petition can be filed in NGT for the non-execution of the earlier order. “Failure in complying with the tribunal's order is punishable with imprisonment that can extend to three years or a fine up to ten crore rupees or both,” he said. 
 
 
