NEW DELHI:   on Monday told   that   needed to be amended to accommodate the ever growing population of Delhi and this required mixed land use.

 ASG Maninder Singh said concerns regarding impact of change in law on environment and existing infrastructure have been examined by   in detail and there is no illegality. The authority, however, admitted no environment impact assessment was conduted as it is not mandated under law.
  
  
 “The modifications had been carried out from time to time while keeping in view the need for growing population of Delhi and also the existing ground realities and future needs of the city, following the principle of service seeker and service provider to be in the same neighbourhood so as to curtail transportation. Provisions have also been made in the MPD 2021 for minimum 15% of the proposed FAR to be constructed for community service personnel/EWS and lower category,” DDA said in its affidavit.
 
 The development of commercial or service areas is intended to reduce the need for longer time spent on transport and use of vehicles. “This 15% of the proposed FAR would be over and above 200 permissible FAR and density of 200 dwelling units per hectare so that the requirement for their commutation for availing / providing services for the residents of the localities becomes minimal,” it said.
 
 The affidavit was filed in compliance of the apex court’s queries. DDA said amendment of MPD would have no adverse impact on the city’s infrastructure as number of commercial areas or establishments were not proposed to be increased.
 
 “It is submitted that the proposed modifications are not in the nature of changing existing population density within the colonies nor they are in the nature of effecting important alteration of the plan and they do not relate to the extent of land uses therefore, they are not expected to cause any  ,  ,   infrastructure/civic amenities,” the authority said.
 
 “...at present, the population of Delhi is approximately 168 lakh and this phenomenal increase from 2001, has inevitable implications and impact in terms of shelters including squatter settlement, unauthorized colonies, squatters, JJ settlements, infra facilities, employment and phenomenal growth of automobiles resulting in a variety of problems pertaining to congestions, pollution, safety of travels, parking, growing demand of water and electricity etc,” it said. 
 
 
