PILIBHIT: Two days after four poachers were arrested from Bhara Pachpeda village in Pilibhit’s Amaria block, seven more were nabbed from   under   police station in neigbouring Uttarakhand’s   district early on Sunday morning. The operation was conducted by a joint team of special task force (STF) and   staff.
 
  With this, the total number of arrested poachers has gone up to 11 in what is being termed as a major breakthrough against wildlife parts smuggling gangs. The seven were tracked electronically from near Bajpur area in Udham Singh Nagar, STF sources said. The mobile phones seized from the four arrested on Friday were put under surveillance for tracking their accomplices in  .
  
  Four poachers were nabbed by PTR field force on Friday from the sugarcane belt of Amaria, 18 km from the reserve. The area is home to five tigers. The poachers had set up a thatched structure and were living there. The carcass of a fishing cat, listed as vulnerable on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (ICUN) Red List, was seized from their possession. Besides, six metallic traps, mobile phones and four cars were also recovered from them.
  
  The four men are now being held in Mahof forest range headquarters in PTR for interrogation by STF.
  
  On Sunday, three metallic traps and four cars were seized from the seven men arrested in Uttarakhand.
  
  Talking to TOI, CO of STF PK Mishra said, “There is no doubt that the four men had come to Pilibhit with the intention of poaching tigers as the metallic traps seized from them can only be used to trap tigers or leopards.”
  
  The STF is now examining the crime data base with Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, STF and police records to ascertain if they were involved in crimes against wildlife in the past. “We will share their information with authorities of tiger reserves, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in other states, especially Rajasthan and Gujarat, as they adjoin Haryana,” added Mishra.
  
  All those arrested belong to Haryana.
  A search is also on for local associates of the poachers in Pilibhit.
  
  Divisional forest officer of PTR Kailash Prakash said the seven are residents of Haryana’s Sirsa district. They have been identified as Sikandar Nath, Kulwant Nath, Ajai Nath, Rajesh Nath, Raju Nath, Ravi Nath and Amrik Nath. The identities were revealed by their respective Aadhaar cards, he added.
 
  All the poachers were booked under section 9 and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act. They would be sent to jail on Monday, Prakash said. 
