JAIPUR: After failing to receive permission to hold the General Body Meeting (GBM), the   ( ) will directly send budget for financial year 2018-19 to the state government for the approval.

 The JMC had earlier sought permission from the state government to organise the budget meeting. However, as February 28 is approaching closer, the date for getting the budget approved, the JMC is now planning to send the budget directly.
 
 Ravi Jain, chief executive officer of JMC, said, “We will be sending the budget for approval within next two days.” 
 
 Earlier, GBM proposed on February 14 was forced to be postponed after JMC ignored the orders of the minister for urban development and housing Shrichand Kriplani.
 
 Kripalani had ordered all the urban bodies to organise the GBM on February 10 and 11 (Saturday and Sunday) to pass the budget. However, JMC did not follow the orders and proposed to organise GBM on February 14. 
 
 Sources in the department said, “In the history of the JMC, the budget will be sent to the state government without passing it at the GBM. In the Rajasthan Municipalities Act-2009, it is mentioned the budget for urban bodies should be passed by February 15. Following this, the budge should be sent to the state government for approval. Due to ongoing assembly and parliament sessions, many MLAs and MPs who are member of board cannot participate. This is the reason many local MLAs to denied to organise GBM during the assembly session.”
 
 According to sources, fearing protest, mayor   is avoiding GBM as his party councillors are expected to protest for not constituting working committees. 
 
 As   government is sitting on the list of chairpersons, resentment inside the BJP councillors has increased manifold. Sources said, the names of 25 working committee chairpersons are expected to be announced this week. However, nothing has been done so far. 
 
 As the BJP came with absolute majority, most of the councillors have started pushing their MLAs to become member and chairmen of the committees. Many BJP councillors, who were not expecting their names in the committee, showed disappointment before the senior party leaders earlier.
 
 With only eight months remaining for the assembly election and one and half year of municipal corporation election, the BJP government was planning to constitute governing committees of the (JMC). But continues delay has forced councillors to protest against their own party. 
 
 BJP government, accepted the resignation of all the committee chairmen after appointing the new mayor, Ashok Lahoti on December 16 , 2016 . Since then the committees have not been constituted.
 
