Having played many memorable roles in their long and illustrious careers,   and   are back together on the big screen after a gap of 27 years. This time they’re playing the quirky characters of a father and son in Umesh Shukla’s ' '. While Amitabh plays the cool dad, Dattatraya, Rishi takes on the role of an old-school son, Babulal! Here is a sneak peak in to their bittersweet life.

 
  
 
  
 Babulal refuses to go to an old age home. Dattatraya agrees, but on the condition that his son will fulfil some not-so-easy requests. Dattatraya makes Babu write a love letter, dares him to do things that he must not even have dreamed of and even makes him prance around Mumbai city. But will the stubborn Babulal change himself? Will Dattatraya succeed in changing him? Will Dattaraya be able to break the world record he’s set his eyes on? All this will be answered once the movie releases on May 4.
 
 
  
 
  
 Director   reveals his views on the film. He says, “This film is very close to my heart. It is about all the people who make a difference in our lives — our parents, our children, our friends and what they truly mean to us. Simply said, '102 Not Out' will give you a reason to laugh, tug at your heartstrings and make you want to give your family a big hug. You may go watch two legends, Amitabh Bachchan and Rishi Kapoor, but you will take home memories of two loveable men, Dattatraya and Babulal. This is a clean, family entertainer that is a major milestone in my journey as a filmmaker. When I directed 'OMG! Oh My God', I felt it was socially relevant in the way it looked at Godmen and the blind faith people place on them. With this movie, I want families to come together and celebrate the bond that they share with their loved ones. It is a celebration of life!”
 
  
  
  
  
 '102 Not Out', presented and distributed worldwide by Sony Pictures Releasing International, and produced by SPE Films India, Treetop Entertainment and Umesh Shukla’s Benchmark Pictures, releases on May 4.
 
