GHAZIABAD: A Class I student of a private school in   apparently collapsed outside the classroom and was declared dead in hospital on Wednesday. His parents alleged the boy had been beaten up by a teacher. 

 The primary classes of   in  , where eight-year-old   studied, were open on Wednesday despite district magistrate   instructing classes up to VIII to remain closed till January 14 because of cold conditions.
 
 “The official in charge of basic education in the district has been asked to issue a notice to the school. Legal proceedings will be initiated after we receive a reply,” Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 Qatib’s parents have lodged a complaint at Loni police station. Late on Thursday evening, the police said they had lodged an FIR against the “class teacher”, whom they did not name.
 
 According to the school management, Qatib suffered from frequent fits and it happened again on Wednesday before he collapsed.
 
 Qatib’s father denied his son had any physical ailment.
 
 “My daughters are enrolled in Class IV of the same school. They have claimed to have seen Qatib’s teacher reprimanding him and beating him up for remaining outside class. He had gone downstairs to the washroom and reportedly collapsed after returning to the class. Other children have also seen Qatib being hit by his teacher. He had no history of suffering from fits or any other physical ailment,” said the boy’s father Mohammad Sujauddin, who owns a grocery.
 
 Qatib apparently collapsed barely 15 minutes after his parents had left the school following a meeting with the teachers.
 
 “We told Qatib’s parents that he should be promoted to Class I from Kindergarten as he was good in studies. Around 10.45am on Wednesday, his mother deposited the fees and left the school. Qatib fell into a fit and collapsed. We informed his parents and rushed him to a local private hospital,” school manager   said.
 
 The school has students up to Class X.
 
 The boy was taken to Dharampal Memorial Hospital in Loni and referred to GTB Hospital in Delhi after his condition deteriorated. He was declared dead at the Delhi hospital.
 
 “An autopsy has been done and we are awaiting the report. We are investigating the allegations that the boy had been beaten up. Further action will depend on the findings of the autopsy,” said SSP Hari Narayan Singh.
 
 
