COIMBATORE: At the end of the   (CCFC)-Minerva Punjab match,   stood on the sidelines stunned for almost five minutes. 

 
 Minerva's star Bhutanese forward didn't shake hands with the opposition players and had no words to offer even for the post-match pleasantries, just the way his team had no answer to CCFC's aggressive, enterprising and solid football.
 
 With their backs to the wall, CCFC notched up a fine 2-1 win over the title contenders in their must-win last I-League encounter at the   on Friday. M Soosairaj, with a goal and an assist, laid the foundation of the victory while Chencho scored the only goal for Minerva.
 
 CCFC's win had huge significance on the league table, both in the battle for title and saving relegation. CCFC finished with 19 points, two more than the other relegation-threatened team Churchill Brothers, who have two games in hand. With Gokulam Kerala and Indian Arrows immune to relegation and CCFC enjoying superior head to head results, Churchill will now have to win a match to avoid the drop. 
 
 At the other end of the spectrum, Minerva missed an opportunity to consolidate their top spot and extend the lead. They remain on 32 points after 17 matches and their loss, importantly, keeps alive the title hopes of second-placed NEROCA FC (31 points from 17 games),   (third with 29 points from 16) and   (fourth with 27 points from 16). 
 
 CCFC checked all the boxes on Friday. Coach Soundararajan's ploy to employ Gaurav Bora to play between the defence and midfield worked perfectly as the teenager didn't allow the likes of Chencho and William Opoku any space to operate. However, the architect of the win was Soosairaj, who is easily the find of the season. The 23-year-old showed his mettle once again and led the attack with purpose.
 
 In a bid to unsettle the opponents, CCFC needed to strike early and Soosairaj provided them with the perfect start in the fifth minute. The midfielder, central to CCFC's every move, connected with an   cross from the right with his head. But Minerva goalkeeper Kiran Limbu palmed it away. However, Soosairaj, showing a striker's mentality, followed the ball and scored off the rebound.
 
 Stung by the reverse, Minerva linked up well and found the equaliser in the 25th minute when Chencho picked up a long ball and slammed home a left-footer. The strike had the necessary power and precision and Chencho was so prompt that it gave CCFC goalkeeper Kabir no chance of saving it.
 
 The goal, though, didn't release the pressure on Minerva. Their defenders Sukhdev Singh and Eric Dano struggled to contain Soosairaj and he proved instrumental in CCFC's second goal. In the 60th minute, Soosairaj showed fantastic vision to play a through ball which dissected five Minerva defenders and found  . The Serbia and Montenegro forward didn't disappoint as he slotted home past an onrushing Kiran.
 
 Minerva upped the ante after the goal and pounded the opposition wall but CCFC defenders held firm, giving their side crucial three points which opens up the I-League title race.
 
