Nagpur: Seven bomb explosions in 11 minutes on Mumbai’s suburban railways had rocked the city on July 11, 2006. The play ‘Black History of Mumbai’ tried to revisit stories of seven characters of that fateful day. The drama is the latest entrant in the on-going Natya Mahaotsav competition at Maharashtra Kamgar Kalyan Bhavan, on Tuesday. The story shows what aspirations each character harboured for their future living in the ‘city of dreams’ before their lives abruptly came to an end when they were travelling in a Mumbai local. The story separately followed the lives of a labourer, bargirl, airhostess, transgender beggar, school girl, a young businessman and a pregnant housewife. Each character was living with issues unique to them while hoping that their lives would eventually take the course of happiness. By the interval of the play, all except three characters, were about to find some solace as they realized they were closer to their individual goals, but they all die when the bombs on the local trains explode. The blast becomes the only concurrent point when all seven lives are seen sharing the same stage. The characters speak after the explosion, as if their souls were expressing regret for what had happened. A photojournalist who arrives at the scene of the blast expressed the same sentiment for all characters. The labourer, bargirl and beggar expressed more regret for loss of lives for others in the train than their own. By the time the three characters boarded the fateful train they had lost all hopes of turning their lives around for the best. Director of the play Swapnil Bansod, said, “It’s a very emotional subject and I felt the story had to be told. The message of the story is much more significant than the lives of the characters. The photojournalist conveys this message the best when he says people of our country are so impaired that they are unable to rise against the continuous injustice they face at every level.” “The Mumbai bombings served as a canvas on which the story could be narrated. The city is like alcohol for people. They have many desires as soon as they set foot here,” Bansod said. ends