BASANTI: A 10-year old student was killed in crossfire and a Trinamool worker died as two rival factions of the ruling party clashed in South 24 Parganas’ Basanti having a sizeable Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe population. Nine members from the warring groups and a constable of the state combat force were taken to Canning sub-divisional hospital with injuries.

 
 Student Riazul Molla was caught in the gun battle on his way back home on Thursday for lunch. He died on the spot. Hassan Laskar (28), a supporter of  , died in the hospital in the evening. Bullet-hit constable   was shifted to a Kolkata hospital from Canning.
 
 An altercation over control of the Adivasi Mela triggered the tension between the two groups piling up at   area in Basanti ever since a host of CPM activists joined the ruling party after 2016 assembly polls. Trouble broke out at 7.30am following a spat between Topu Mahato, the son of   gram panchayat member Suchitra Mahato, and members ofthe new Trinamool group owing allegiance to Aman Ali Laskar, who joined from CPM. The violence died down for the time being to erupt again around noon. Rival gangs hurled bombs at each other, opened fire and ransacked houses in the neighbourhood, forcing women to leave their homes. Basanti police couldn’t access the area till afternoon when a huge force finally entered the battle zone to take control of the situation.
 
 Factional clashes in Trinamool have become regular in this area. CM Mamata Banerjee initially alerted South 24 Parganas party president and Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee against the unrest. Later, she gave additional responsibility to party president Subrata Bakshi. It didn’t work prompting Mamata to dissolve all party committees in Basanti and put Joynagar MP and Trinamool leader Gobindo Naskar’s daughter   in charge of Basanti.
 
 The MP admitted that Thursday’s violence was between two Trinamool groups. “There was a proposal to form alocal core committee with four members from each faction. But this happened before it could take shape,” the MP said.
 
 Former Trinamool block president and an old Trinamool hand Mantu Gazi blamed Trinamool’s Canning (east) MLA Shaukat Molla. Molla flatly denied the charge.
 
