NEW DELHI: The mobile applications launched by the three   on January 29 have virtually failed to accomplish the task for which they were developed. An official report shows that in the 15 days since the apps were launched only 182 people from south Delhi, 108 from north and 83 people from east have used it to lodge complaints about  .

 Moreover, most of these complaints have not been addressed. “It is because many sanitation inspectors assigned the job are unable to comprehend and handle the system properly,” said a source.
 
 The data available on Google Play Store shows that only 100 people have downloaded north corporation’s app, NorthDMC 311. The app of east corporation, EDMC 311, has been downloaded by just 100 people out of a population of around 40 lakh. The SDMC mobile   has been downloaded by 500 people.
  
  
 However, an official managing the apps claimed that NorthDMC 311 has been downloaded by 458 people, EDMC 311 by 435 and 15,013 people have downloaded SDMC 311.
 
 When TOI talked to 10 members of different residents’ welfare associations, most said they had no clue about the app. A couple of them said they had heard about it, but didn’t know that one could only report about dead animals, dustbins not cleaned, garbage dumps, public toilet blockade, garbage vehicle not arrived, sweeping not done, no electricity in public toilets and toilets not cleaned.
 
 “I downloaded the app to upload photographs of waterlogging, but there is no option for it,” said B S Vohra of RWAs Federation of East Delhi. The secretary general of Confederation of NCR RWAs, Chetan Sharma, said that he was unable to upload photographs of encroachment.
 
 Officials accepted that this system is largely ineffective due to lack of prompt resolution of complaints. Moreover, the mobile applications remain largely unknown among the people across the three corporations. “We will spread awareness about these applications,” said a senior north corporation official. The applications will soon get new features to report waterlogging, mosquito breeding, encroachment, illegal construction, etc, added another official.
 
 The idea behind the creation of the app was to plug the gaps in the existing system of complaints redressal in which people have to call the mayor’s helpline. 
 
 Also, the online system would reduce human intervention. As the users of the app are geo-tagged, their complaints would automatically get assigned to the officials in their area. Information would also be sent to the user about which official was resolving the issue.
 
 
