Chandigarh: Marking the second day of the 8th Theater Olympics 2018' The Prime Time Theatre Company.', a theater group based in Mumbai staged legendary Indian playwright Vijay Tandulkar's narrative 'Kanyadaan' at Tagore Theater, here on Wednesday. 

 The play, which has been directed by actress Lillete Dubey, produced through her own theatre group, the play stars famous television and film actors like Rajendra Gupta, Joy Sengupta, Deepika Amin, Mrunmayee Godbole and others.
 
 The narrative, which was staged for the first time in 1981 and has one The Sahitya Akademi Award, has been staged numerous number of times ever since and continues to be one of the most popular plays written by late Vijay Tendulkar in his career. 
 
 The plot of the award winning narrative is the story of a daughter’s transformation into a wife and a mother, charged with significant social and moral questions, which are thought –provoking, and to which there are no easy answers. This gripping play, which is also laced with a wry humour, is charged with an undercurrent of violence, uncertainties and anger, and concerns itself with questions that are crucial to all societies grappling with change and social barriers.
 
 The play portrays the complexity of a the modern caste system and its impact on a couple’s life. The father of the girl (Rajendra Gupta) is shown to be a Gandhian and is the MLA from a socialist party. At the same time, her mother is also the crusader of equal rights and is part of numerous feminist movements. Hence, when the girl declares to marry a man from a Dalit background, the father feels very happy, however the mother tries to analyse the situation through a practical point-of-view. The boy loves the girl a lot too, until he gets drunk and the true side of his hatred and suffering representing 300 years of oppression from the upper classes comes to the fore and he begins to physically and mentally abuse the girl. 
 
 “Kanyadaan told a tale that was both universal and contemporary. Moreover, it had never been performed in English, so there was a large section of people, who had never seen it. The Dalit aspects of the play has a sociological and political dimension. On one level it is clash of culture between people who inhabit the same Geographical space but entirely different worlds,” said Dubey. 
 
 The duration of the play was about one hour and forty-five minutes. 
 
 BOX:-
 
 Due to some coordination delay, the stage for the play was not ready until 6:16 pm, when the play was supposed to begin by 6:30 pm at Tagore Theater. However, in order to get the set in place, Dubey asked a few audience members who had already got seated inside the auditorium to leave and wait outside and only come back once it is 6:30 which caused a slight stir among the viewers. Many of them who were aged among the audience were also asked to wait outside. 
 
 
