NAGPUR: Just a year ago,   was an automatic choice in the Vidarbha playing eleven. The left-arm pacer—who had formed a brilliant new ball pair with India pacer Umesh Yadav around seven years back—had been Vidarbha’s bowling spearhead since last five-six years.

 
 However, untimely injuries and indifferent form pegged back his progress and also opened the opportunities for youngsters like Lalit Yadav and Rajneesh Gurbani. They grabbed it with both hands last season and were instrumental in historic last season, where Vidarbha won both Ranji and Irani Trophy.
 
 Wagh, now 29, has his task cut out to regain his place in the longer format. However, he showed glimpses of his old self during Central Zone Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy and Vijay Hazare One-day Trophy.
 
 Wagh looked sharp in T20s in Raipur where he impressed former India coach   and other   franchises talent scouts. Wagh continued his good form in One-dayers where he was Vidarbha’s most impressive bowler, taking 10 wickets in 5 matches.
 
 Now, the pacer is moving to England to play North Yorkshire and South Durham Premier ECB Premier League for  . He was part of the same club in 2014-15 where he performed consistently well.
 
 The club announced the signing through their Twitter handle @Stokesley_CC. “We are delighted to announce the signing of Shrikant Wagh as our Overseas Professional Player/Coach for 2018. The 29 year old Indian, left arm seamer and ECB level 2 coach previously spent a successful 2015 season at Broughton Road and is looking forward to returning this April,” the tweet posted on March 17.
 
 
  
 After an average 2015-16 season, the left-arm seamer bounced back strongly in 2016-17 season and supported Lalit well at the other end. However, he suffered the knee injury while playing football before Baroda game in Vijay Hazare Trophy in January 2017. Wagh had to undergo the surgery and he missed the action for almost five months.
 
 Wagh came back for Chhattisgarh game during Ranji Trophy last season but looked pale shadow of himself. He again went back for rehabilitation and then returned strongly during Twenty20 this January.
 
 Chhattisgarh bowling coach P Krishnakumar, who saw Wagh during Twenty20 and One-dayers, looked impressed with his bowling. “Comebacks are always tough but he hardly showed any nerves. His rhythm was good; he was bowling at good speed and most importantly he was right on the money, which is always a hallmark of a good player,” Krishnakumar told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Krishnakumar, also a former Rajasthan skipper and left-arm pacer, praised Wagh to opt for club cricket in England.
 
 “I have played enough there and let me tell you it’s not easy for bowlers too. The ball swings too much and batsmen are used to play fast bowlers in the Premier Division. So, you constantly need to find ways to take wickets.
 
 “The clubs there are very professional. Even in flattest of wickets, they throw ball at you and say “get me the wicket”. That responsibility helps you grow as a cricketer. I am sure he will return as an improved cricketer,” Krishnakumar said.
 
 Krishnakumar also has some words of wisdom for Wagh. “I genuinely feel he has batting talent. If he works hard on his batting, he can do a great job with bat as well. Hope he does well as a batsman too,” Krishnakumar said.
 
