CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu governor   on Monday said the state’s revenues had not increased as expected because of which revenue deficit would be higher than projected in the last budget. Tamil Nadu is among the few states with deficit in its revenue account and it shows the state lives beyond its means.

 “Though there is a concern about increasing revenue deficit due to slow growth in revenue receipts, the state is firmly on the path of containing fiscal deficit and debt to GSDP ratio within the norms,” the governor said in his address to the Tamil Nadu assembly.
 
 But, economists seem to hear alarm bells ringing. “The governor has restated that the present government is living beyond its means. Till 2014, the   government was able to limit its expenditure and there was no deficit in the revenue account. But in the past 3 years, there is a deficit in the revenue account and it is growing every year,” said an economist.
 
 Alongside revenue deficit, the state’s debt burden too is increasing. “The governor’s speech clearly shows that all borrowing made by the government is being used for expenditure in revenue account. Normally, borrowing will be made for capital expenditure like infrastructure projects,” said the economist.
 
 The governor expressed confidence that the government will be able to control the fiscal deficit. Last year, when the fiscal deficit crossed 3% of GSDP, the government blamed   joining Uday scheme for high level of fiscal deficit. “The government is trying to hide the numbers. When there is a high level revenue deficit and the fiscal deficit is within FRBM norms, it means the government is not spending any money on capital expenditure,” he said.
 
 “Tamil Nadu, in the last few years, has not been able to meet the revenue target though the revenue has been increasing each year. In the same way, the revenue expenditure is also on the rise and there has been no control over it. Due to these factors, the deficit in the revenue account is on the rise and this year, the government is likely to blame the implementation of pay commission recommendations for government employees,” the economist said.
 
 In the last budget, the government said the revenue deficit will be around Rs 15,930.38, crore which is the highest in recent years. The governor’s speech shows that the deficit in the revenue account is likely to be much above that.
 
 The CAG, in its report for the 2015-16 accounts, has criticised the government for not containing the deficit in the revenue account. “In 2015-16, Tamil Nadu not only failed to achieve revenue surplus as projected in the  , but also failed to contain its revenue deficit within the  ,” said the report on state finances.
 
 
