Vasco: It’s difficult to catch the young  , particularly towards the closing stages of the match.
 
  After stunning   with two goals in added time, Arrows returned to the scene of their most spectacular triumph to hold   FC 2-2 in a   encounter at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Friday.
  
  Aizawl were cruising along nicely with goals from Masih Saighani (40th minute) and Zikahi Leonce Dodoz (54th minute), good enough to give coach   a win on debut even though   had done well to keep his side in the game with a goal immediately after resumption in the 48th minute. Aizawl came close to scoring the insurance goal too but had not prepared themselves for another late onslaught from the young Arrows.
  
  Rahul Balan won a penalty for Arrows in the 88th minute and Amarjit stepped forward – ahead of Sanjeev Stalin – to level scores with just a minute left on the clock. C Lalrosanga was sent off for that offence, his second booking, and Aizawl were suddenly left to safeguard their citadel like their life depended on it.
  
  The reserve referee showed five minutes and Arrows smelt blood. They hunted in numbers for the match-winner with substitute Boris Singh working his magic on the left. Coach Luis Norton de Matos even lost his cool when goalkeeper Prabsukhan Gill collected a ball and rolled over. Time was precious, and at the fag end of the match, Arrows have proved they can make the best defences go weak in their knees. Kashyap couldn’t bear to see his defenders taking risks in their own half and yelled at them to kick the ball into the other half. Aizawl survived those torrid five minutes and had themselves to blame for not picking up full points. They were the better team in this contest, created openings, and although they scored two, could have easily doubled their tally. Zikahi, who used his strength to muscle his way through, had a great chance to kill the game in the 85th minute but the keeper’s legs somehow kept danger away.
  
  Earlier, Masih had found himself in the right place at the right time to give Aizawl the lead from close range but Edmund had the spectators up on their feet when he showed remarkable composure and skill to curl a ball past the rival goalkeeper.
  
  Zikahi eventually capitalized on a defensive lapse to regain Aizawl the lead when Arrows defenders – Anwar Ali and Jitendra Singh – failed to spot the danger. But what should have been a cruise turned into a slog as Arrows proved hard to catch in the closing stages of the match.
