MUMBAI: Thirty-one Sindhi colonies across  , including Ulhasnagar, will become freehold land as a result of a small correction in land tenure approved by the state cabinet on Tuesday. The colonies, essentially plots given to refugees from   in the wake of Partition, had been designated as ‘restricted tenure’ in the state.

 The change means residents will no longer need to obtain permission from the collector to carry out sale or to mortgage or even redevelop the property. Further, they will not be required to pay 50% of their earnings as unearned income to the government.
 
 Among the spots in Mumbai that will benefit are Chembur Colony, Wadia Trust Estate, Kurla, Thakkar Bapa Colony, Chembur, Sion Koliwada, Mulund Colony and Kopri Colony. “A similar decision was taken in the case of Sindhi colonies in   in 2006 and   in 2008. It is now being made applicable to other parts of the state,” said a revenue official.
 
 Sindhi colonies are also spread across Bhusaval, Pune, Yavatmal, Nagpur, Akola, Amravati and  .
 
 The refugees were given land from the Compensation Pool Properties of the Central government based on their land holdings in Pakistan. While in the rest of India the land was given as freehold, in Maharashtra it was in the form of ‘restricted tenure.’ Over the years, some of the plots were encroached upon, and these too were regularised.
 
 Though given for a lifetime, the residents could not sell, transfer or redevelop the properties without the collector’s noobjection certificate.
 
 A senior revenue department official said Tuesday’s decision is applicable only to Compensation Pool Properties and to no other property. “The collector will suo motu carry out changes in the land records, and the tenure will be changed from Class II Occupants to Class I Occupants. The entire process should take a minimum of six months to be completed,” the official said.
 
 Ulhasnagar has the largest Sindhi settlement in the country with a population of four lakh. However, officials said it is still to be ascertained how many of the plots are from the compensation pool.
 
