GURUGRAM: Disappointed with the response of the district administration as well as the state government to events that unfolded on Friday when some   disrupted   at several public places in the city, the Muslim community has decided to hold a meeting on Sunday to discuss their future course of action. Community leaders squarely blamed the administration for not doing enough to deter these outfits.

 “What took place on Friday was there for everyone to see. Despite the presence of police, the Hindutva outfits shouted slogans and did not allow us to offer namaz, forcing several of us to disperse,” said Shehzad Khan of the Muslim Ekta Manch. “The administration could have prevented this scenario. We were assured there will be no disruption and yet there was complete disorder. It has now become a huge concern for all us. We have decided to hold a meeting to decide what steps need to be taken so that things do not get out of hand coming Friday.”
 
 Sube Singh Bohra, the former Wazirabad village headman who is at the forefront of the opposition to namaz at open spaces, declared chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be solely responsible “if any untoward incident takes place” in the days to come. 
 
 “The chief minister and BJP need to make their stand very clear on this issue and they have to speak up. They cannot just remain mute spectators any longer. We will try our best to maintain peace and calm and will try to make our Muslim bothers understand that they can have namaz only inside the mosque. We will not allow them to do so anywhere else, and if things get out of hand, the CM will be responsible for not acting in time,” he told TOI.
 
 While the CM could not be reached for his reaction, his media adviser Rajiv Jain initially said there was no need for the CM to speak on the matter but later said the CM was busy with his birthday celebration (which was on Saturday).
 
 Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh appealed to both groups to maintain calm. 
 
 “I will ask the district administration to find a solution to this as soon as possible and till such time, both parties should maintain communal harmony,” he said.
 
 Jawahar Yadav, the chief minister’s close aide, said mosques in the city have adequate room. “I feel mosques in Gurugram are commodious enough to accommodate all. However, in case they need more space, the Muslim community can approach the district administration and seek permission to have namaz in public places, including parks where religious gatherings usually take place, and if the authorities feel so, they can give them permission.”
 
 
