PATNA: Health Minister Mangal Pandey on Friday launched an online portal (xln.bihar.gov.in) for registration and licensing of drugstores under Bihar’s directorate of drugs control on the State Health Society   (SHSB) premises.

 Drugstore owners in the state would now be able to register their outlets and receive the subsequent licence after verification within a month. Six drugstore owners from different districts were granted licences through the portal on the occasion.
 
 The National Informatics Centre (NIC) under the central government has made the software, XLN, available to the state government for the portal. Health department officials said before the licence is issued to a drugstore owner, drug inspectors would verify all the necessary documents and upload their report to the website. This will then be reviewed by the licensing authority (LA), who will issue the licence after the inspection report. A draft licence will also be generated before issuing the actual licence to ensure correction of any errors that may occur. 
 
 “For the last 15 months, no licence was being issued to either wholesale or retail drugstores in the state as the government was trying to set up the digital platform for the same. The infrastructure for every district’s drug office is also to be developed,” the minister said.
 
 He said the state government has been working towards improving the food and drug laboratory that are presently in a deplorable condition. “It was on the brink of being nearly shut down. We will make all necessary equipment, chemicals, glassware and human resources available in the near future. The funds for the same have been approved. Bihar Medical Services & Infrastructure Corporation (BMSICL) is working on it. We are also going to set up   on the premises of   (AIIMS) — Patna,” Pandey added.
 
 Principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar said with the online facility, licences would be issued in a time driven system. “The online facility has been made keeping in mind the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and subsequent rules. All drug inspectors will be issued laptops so that they can upload all relevant information and reports related to the drugstore after their inspection,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar also said the health department would launch another online portal ‘Darpan app’ within a fortnight to help the department to keep a tab on hospital inspections and other related facilities.
 
 
