LUDHIANA: Fog prevailed in the city on the third consecutive day even as the day temperature continued to be recorded below normal on Wednesday. The bad news for the residents on the weather front is that the   predicts dense to very   is expected in the city in the next few days.

 According to the met department, as thick fog prevailed in the city on Wednesday, the visibility at 8.30 am in the morning was 50 metres. However the visibility improved slightly during the day and was recorded at 350 meters at 5.30 pm on Wednesday.
 
 Meanwhile the maximum (day) temperature in the city was recorded at 15.5 degrees, which is two degrees less than normal whereas minimum (night) temperature was measured by met department on higher side at 6.7 degrees, which is a degree more than the normal. The relative humidity on Wednesday was on the higher side at 100% which is around 20% more than normal.
 
 As the day temperature remained lower than normal on Wednesday, the met department doesn’t have good news for residents. “Dense to very dense fog is likely to continue in Ludhiana in the next few days due to low temperatures and high humidity in the city. The weather however is expected to remain dry and the sky is expected to be mainly clear after the fog in the morning,” said a Met Department official in Chandigarh.
 
 The met department website suggests rise in day temperature to 16 degrees till January 5 and the same is expected to gradually decrease to 15 degrees till January 7. The night temperature is likely to rise to 7 degrees till January 5 followed by fall to 6 degrees on January 7.
 
 Meanwhile residents are battling with cold conditions prevailing in the city.
 
 “Even as the sky has been clear for the last few days the fog is hardly allowing the Sun to shine. The result is that we are grappling with spine tottering cold. Fog has also badly affected my mobility especially during the morning and evening hours as it is quite dangerous to drive during these times due to low visibility”, said  , a businessman from BRS Nagar.
 
 Children too felt the chill in the air. “I cannot play outside these days as it is very cold. My parents scold me If I go out for as they fear that I will catch cold,” said  , a nine-year-old from Civil Lines.
 
 
