HUBBALLI: When burglars struck at an office under   police station limits on April 6, little did they know that their identity would be revealed within two days. 

 They managed to flee Yallapur and crossed   in   the same night, taking the stolen items in a goods vehicle. Yallapur police contacted their Hubballi-Dharwad counterpart on April 13, seeking   footage of the culprits. Much to their surprise, they not only found clear visuals of the driver, but also the numberplate of the vehicle. The night-vision CCTV captured such clear visuals that even the contact number written on the vehicle was visible.
 
 Thanks to latest technology-based cameras being installed in the twin cities, Yallapur police are now close to nabbing the burglars. With 20 such cameras, police in Hubballi-Dharwad aim at making life difficult for criminals. 
 
 As many as 15 cameras have already been installed at entry and exit roads on the outskirts of Hubballi-Dharwad and major junctions.
 
  These cameras work with auto sensors. While normal cameras record videos, these ones can also capture still images - in the night with black auto flash and in the morning with white flash. 
 
  B S Nemagouda, deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic), said that the work was initiated under the Nagarotthan scheme and HD Track special grant. The cameras have been already installed at  , near Oxford at Keshwapur, Gadag Road and Toll Naka in Dharwad. 
 
  The cameras have been provided by Hubballi-based Trinity Technologies and Software Solutions Private Limited. Rajneesh Ganjyal of the company said that the 6 megapixel cameras have polarized lenses and strobe lamps. The videos have full HD quality resolution, he said. "Pictures taken in CCD sensor will have lots of pixels and excellent light sensitivity. So these cameras are costlier than normal CMOS camera. This kind of system has not been adopted anywhere in the country," he claimed. 
 
  The Hubballi-Dharwad police commissionerate is spending nearly Rs 2 crore for the installation of these cameras. 
 
 
